-- 
On Corporate Taxes, Put the Public in Publicly Traded: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-10-06T00:00:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/on-corporate-taxes-put-the-public-in-publicly-traded-view.html
How can you tell how much federal
income tax a publicly traded company pays in a specific year?
You can’t.  Writing  in the Washington Post last month, journalist Allan
Sloan suggested this can be corrected by demanding that the
 Financial Accounting Standards Board  require companies to
disclose this number. This was a follow-up to his critique of a
New York Times  article  published in March reporting that  General
Electric Co. (GE)  had paid no U.S. income tax in 2010.  Sloan asked for anyone who supports his call to stand up
and be counted. And so we endorse Sloan’s idea and will up the
ante: Make the income-tax returns of all companies with shares
traded on U.S. stock markets available to the public.  It’s not such a radical idea. In fact, it would restore the
intent of the law when the first permanent federal corporate
income tax was adopted by Congress in 1909, stating that returns
“shall constitute public records.” Over the years, legal rulings
and regulations placed limits on disclosure. An impermeable wall
was erected in 1976 in response to the Nixon administration’s
misuse of tax returns to harass those on its notorious “enemies
list” of journalists and anti-Vietnam War protesters, according
to a 1981 study by Boris Bittker, a now-deceased professor at
 Yale Law School .  Cookie Jar  That has left us with the current sorry state of U.S.
financial reporting: Although U.S. company financial statements
are choked with numbers on taxes, they omit critical and needed
information. There is an entry for how much cash is paid in
taxes, but no indication to whom or where. There is another line
known as the provision for taxes. This is little more than a
cookie jar that companies can use to stuff with money for
pulling out later as needed.  Making corporate tax returns public would enhance investor
understanding of how a company makes money. It might even lead
to changes that would lower the cost of doing business.  Here’s why. Today, there are two sets of books for keeping
track of a company’s financial performance. These parallel
universes are, in many ways, at odds with each other. One
reporting system suits the purposes of the  Internal Revenue
Service , whose goal as the tax collector is to maximize income
and thereby increase its claim. The other, known as generally
accepted accounting principles, contains the information now
made available to the public and investors. The goal of this
system is to keep taxable income in check while preventing
investors from being deceived.  Financial Clarity  Mihir A. Desai, a professor of finance at  Harvard Business
School , says public regulators should consider reconciling most
of the differences between the two reporting systems. This would
provide more financial clarity, and let companies spend a lot
less time taking the same information and shaping it to conform
to different rules.  Disclosing corporate tax returns might be a simpler
alternative. It may well accomplish something beyond the reach
of the IRS: intense scrutiny by private investors, the best
financial minds in the world.  Companies are sure to resist, insisting that making their
returns public would divulge proprietary information.  To which we would ask: What exactly are the secrets hidden
in a company’s tax returns? A drugmaker doesn’t disclose the
molecular formula for a new medication in its tax filings. A
software maker doesn’t include the code for a novel program that
makes Web searches faster.  No, the main secrets in corporate tax filings are the
dodges that companies and their auditors cook up to game tax
collection. Indeed, recent history is full of examples of
companies and accounting firms creating phony losses to lower
taxable income. In even more perverse cases, unprofitable
companies such as Enron Corp. goosed their returns to make it
look as if they had taxable income.  Unique Strategies  But in those rare instances when a company can convince the
IRS that its tax strategies are unique and need protecting,
there can be a provision for keeping that part of a return
confidential.  As for the  privacy rights , we wouldn’t advocate public
disclosure of personal tax returns. More importantly, there
should be an honest acknowledgement of the difference between
individuals and businesses. In spite of recent court rulings,
which disingenuously conflate personal freedoms with corporate
rights, companies aren’t people and never will be.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 