-- 
Hana Financial Pushes for Korea Exchange Takeover After Lone Star Ruling

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-10-07T07:10:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/lone-star-found-guilty-of-stock-manipulation-in-south-korea-yoo-gets-jail.html
Hana Financial Group Inc. (086790)  will push
to complete its purchase of  Korea  Exchange Bank from  Lone Star
Funds  after a  Seoul  court ruled on a five-year legal dispute
that stalled the U.S. buyout fund’s efforts to sell the lender.  “We will do our utmost to complete the Korea Exchange Bank
takeover to best serve our shareholders,” Hana President Kim Jong Yeol said by telephone yesterday after the Seoul High Court
found Lone Star guilty of stock-price manipulation. The company
is now waiting for guidance from the financial regulator, which
said it may order the Dallas-based fund to sell most of its 51
percent stake.  Wrangling with courts and regulators pushed back Hana’s
plan to take over the bank by May and derailed two earlier
attempts by  Lone Star  to sell its stake. A public backlash over
the profits the fund has made on its eight-year investment may
deter foreign takeovers in South Korea, impeding government
plans to sell state assets such as Woori Finance Holdings Co.  “It has taken too long for the resolution of the KEB-Lone
Star case,” Hank Morris, North Asia adviser at Triple A
Partners Ltd., said by e-mail before the verdict. The delay
“will have had a negative effect upon the plans of global
investors in regard to direct investment into Korea.”  Hana Financial rose 2.5 percent to 36,400 won at the 3 p.m.
close of Seoul trading and climbed as high as 38,400 won. Korea
Exchange shares advanced 6.5 percent to 7,750 won after rising
as much as 11 percent. The benchmark Kospi index advanced 2.9
percent.  Lone Star Fined  Paul Yoo, the former head of Lone Star’s South Korean unit,
was sentenced yesterday to three years in prison by Judge Cho Kyung Ran. Lone Star was fined 25 billion won ($21 million) by
the court.  Korea Exchange Bank (004940)  was found not guilty, Cho said
after presiding over a retrial ordered by the  Supreme Court  this
year following their acquittal in June 2008.  Judge Cho said Yoo spread false rumors of a possible
capital reduction at Korea Exchange Bank’s credit card unit in
2003, with the intention of driving down its value before the
lender merged it. The case brought into question whether Lone
Star is a legitimate shareholder of Korea Exchange Bank and
regulators have waited on its outcome before approving a change
in ownership.  ‘It Doesn’t Matter’  “It doesn’t matter whether Lone Star voluntarily sells the
stake or is forced to do so,” Kim Sung Yong, a law professor at
Sungkyunkwan University in Seoul, said before the judgment.
“The result is the same: exit from its investment as it has
wished.”  Korea Exchange Bank spokesman Lee Sun Hwan said the company
respects the court’s decision on the lender. He declined to
comment on the Financial Services Commission’s remark that it
may order Lone Star to sell a 41 percent stake.  Jed Repko, a spokesman for Lone Star in  New York , declined
to comment on the court’s decision and on whether the fund will
appeal to the highest court again. He also declined to comment
on the regulator’s remarks that the commission may order Lone
Star to sell 41 percent stake in Korea Exchange.  Hana has lost 18 percent since May 12, when the Financial
Services Commission said it wouldn’t approve Hana’s proposed
acquisition of Korea Exchange until Lone Star’s legal dispute is
resolved. The FSC has left the deal in limbo for almost a year
because of the litigation, prompting Hana and Lone Star to
extend a deadline for the transaction to Nov. 30 from May and
trim the purchase price by 6 percent to 4.4 trillion won.  Hard Sell  Lone Star shouldn’t be allowed to get so high price from
the Korea Exchange Bank stake following the conviction, Yu Won
Il, an opposite Creative Korea Party lawmaker, said at a
parliamentary audit today.  “Public will never understand if after being convicted of
criminal stock manipulation, Lone Star takes a huge premium from
this stake sale,” Yu told Financial Services Commission
Chairman Kim Seok Dong today.  Lone Star, which bought Korea Exchange Bank in 2003, first
tried to sell the lender to Kookmin Bank in 2006, and the deal
was thwarted amid the same legal dispute. Then in 2008,  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  walked away from a $6 billion deal to buy Korea
Exchange as regulators delayed approval, citing the case.  While the court proceedings have postponed Lone Star’s
exit, it has profited from the investment. The U.S. fund has
recovered 2.5 trillion won after tax through block share sales
and dividends out of a 2.15 trillion won investment in Korea
Exchange, according to the bank’s data.  Hostile Sentiment  South Korean civic groups such as Seoul-based SpecWatch
Korea have criticized foreign investors including Lone Star for
pursuing an “eat-and-flee” strategy of buying companies and
selling them quickly, pocketing big profits. Public discord and
the U.S. buyout firm’s legal woes have dissuaded foreign
investors from acquiring Korean companies, said Henry Seggerman,
president of New York-based International Investment Advisers.  “The case is extremely negative for any prospective
strategic investors,” Seggerman, whose firm manages the $25
million Korea International Investment Fund, said by e-mail
before the decision. “Public sentiment is hostile toward
profitable overseas investment, not supportive overseas
investment.”  Overseas takeovers of Korean companies fell to $3.6 billion
last year from a record $8.1 billion in 2005, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Lone Star was one of the first overseas firms to invest in
 South Korea  following the 1997-98 Asian financial crisis that
led the country to accept a $57 billion bailout from the
 International Monetary Fund .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  