-- 
Hong Kong Doesn’t Plan to Ban Short Selling; Sale Is Normal

-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 
2011-10-06T04:45:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/hong-kong-s-treasury-secretary-says-no-plan-to-ban-short-sales.html
Hong Kong  doesn’t plan to ban short
selling of securities, rejecting a request from some brokerages
after the city’s benchmark index tumbled 26 percent this year.  “When markets fall, it’s not like we can stop it by just
banning short selling,” K.C. Chan, Hong Kong’s secretary for
financial services and treasury, told reporters today.
“Shorting activities are so far relatively normal and we’re
keeping a close watch.”  About $10 trillion was wiped from global equities in the
third quarter on concerns that  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen
and the global economy will falter. Seven brokerage groups said
Hong Kong, the world’s fifth-largest equity market, should
consider a ban on short selling, according to Christopher Cheung,
honorary chairman of the Hong Kong Securities Professionals
Association.  “The government should disclose more information of short-
sellers,” Cheung, also the chairman of Christfund Securities
Ltd., said by telephone in Hong Kong. “Short selling recently
has disturbed market operations and extraordinary measures are
needed to boost investors’ confidence.”  Hong Kong’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  jumped 4.3 percent as
of the midday trading break today. The gauge is headed for its
biggest gain in more than two years, after being closed for a
holiday yesterday, amid better-than-expected U.S. economic data
and optimism Europe will contain the region’s debt crisis.  ‘Cost to Bear’  Short selling in Hong Kong climbed to the highest level in
12 years, with bets on declines reaching HK$12.8 billion ($1.6
billion) on Sept. 30, or 14 percent of the total value traded on
Hong Kong’s stock market, according to data compiled by the
city’s exchange and  Societe Generale .  The HSI Volatility Index, the benchmark gauge for Hong Kong
stock options, sank 10 percent to 42.87, the biggest drop since
Sept. 15, indicating options traders expect a swing of 12
percent in the Hang Seng Index in the next 30 days. The gauge
soared 45 percent on Aug. 9 as the city’s stocks entered a so-
called  bear market  from its November high.  “We are an international financial center, and one of the
characteristics is a liberal trading system,”  Ben Kwong , chief
operating officer at KGI Asia Ltd., said by telephone in Hong
Kong “Funds flow in and out easily, and we have a liquid market.
There is a cost we have to bear. That means volatility in the
market.”  Regulators from  South Korea  to Europe have restricted
bearish bets this year to stem market volatility. Spain and
 Italy  extended halts on short selling of financial shares, the
European Securities and Markets Authority said last week.  Greece 
lengthened its ban until Dec. 9. South Korea said in August that
it will forbid shorting until Nov. 9.  The Hong Kong stock exchange suspended short selling in
HSBC Holdings Plc, Hong Kong Telecommunications Ltd. and China
Telecom (Hong Kong) Ltd. on Sept. 2, 1998, after Hong Kong
Clearing Co. reported millions of shares failed to be settled.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  