-- 
Oracle to Pay U.S. $199.5 Million to Settle False Claim Act Investigation

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-10-07T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/oracle-to-pay-u-s-199-5-million-to-settle-false-claim-act-investigation.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , the world’s second-
biggest software maker, agreed to pay more than $199.5 million
to settle allegations it overbilled the U.S. government for nine
years.  The accord resolves a lawsuit claiming Oracle induced the
General Services Administration to buy $1.08 billion in software
from 1998 to 2006 by falsely promising the same discounts
offered to favored commercial customers. The  Justice Department ,
which pursued the case after joining a whistleblower lawsuit,
and Oracle announced the settlement yesterday.  The payout is the largest ever obtained by the GSA under
the False Claims Act, which lets citizens sue on behalf of the
government and share in any recovery. Former Oracle employee
 Paul Frascella , who filed the case in 2007, will get $40
million.  “Companies that engage in unlawful or fraudulent practices
to secure government business undermine the integrity of the
procurement process and create an unfair advantage,”  Tony West ,
assistant attorney general of the Justice Department’s civil
division, said in a statement.  The U.S. joined Frascella’s case in federal court in
Alexandria, Virginia, and filed its own complaint last year. It
claimed Oracle gave companies discounts of as much as 92
percent, while the government’s cuts ranged from 25 to 40
percent.  ‘Taxpayer Dollars’  “It’s more important now than ever before to make sure
that taxpayer dollars are not wasted on higher prices,” GSA
Inspector General Brian Miller said in the statement. “We will
not let contractors victimize the taxpayers by hiding their best
prices.”  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman for  Redwood City ,
California-based Oracle, said in a statement that the company
“denies that it did not scrupulously adhere to the pricing
requirements of that contract.” Oracle has “strong controls in
place to insure that the government agencies who purchased from
the GSA schedule received fair pricing,” she said. “Oracle
never committed any fraud whatsoever.”  Given that the events “took place so long ago, not
surprisingly many of the witnesses are no longer available or do
not clearly recall these events,” she said. “Oracle has
therefore decided to avoid the distraction and high cost of
litigating this case by settling.”  Earlier Settlement  Oracle also paid $98.5 million in 2006 to settle a case
over GSA pricing at PeopleSoft Inc., a software maker Oracle
bought the previous year for $10.3 billion.  In the Frascella case, Oracle was defended by the law firms
of Arnold & Porter LLP and Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP, whose
founding partner  David Boies  entered the case in July.  “I congratulate the Department of Justice and thank them
for the time and resources they spent on the case,” said
Christopher Mead, an attorney for Frascella. “The DOJ had to
take on two superb law firms representing Oracle and had to
devote a lot of resources to the case.”  He declined further comment about his client.  Frascella started working at Oracle in 1997 as a contract
specialist in the commercial sales department and was still at
the company when he filed his complaint in May 2007, according
to his lawsuit.  The GSA is responsible for federal facilities management,
as well as design, construction, telecommunications and
technology procurement.  The case is United States of America v. Oracle Corp., 07-cv-
00529, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Virginia 
(Alexandria).  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Andrew Harris} in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey ,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  