-- 
Oracle Embraces Cloud to Fuel Growth Without Acquisitions

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-10-07T20:20:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/oracle-top-executives-say-big-deals-may-distract-face-hurdles.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , the world’s second-
largest software maker, aims to eschew big acquisitions and
promote growth from within, relying on hardware sales and a new
cloud-computing service to broaden use of its products.  After gobbling up more than 70 companies in a $40 billion
buying spree, any additional large deals would have to clear an
“enormous hurdle,” Oracle co-President Safra Catz said
yesterday at a meeting with analysts in San Francisco.  The company instead will focus on what it already has,
including the Sun Microsystems server business it purchased last
year for $7.4 billion. Oracle is packaging its database and
business applications into customized computers to entice
customers. The company also is touting its new Fusion business
applications and a service called the Oracle Public Cloud, which
delivers software online via cloud computing.  “People realize M&A is a big part of the Oracle growth
story -- on the other hand, no one wants to see a big, dilutive
acquisition,” said Bill Whyman, an analyst who covers the
technology industry at ISI Group Inc.  Large deals would create distractions for management,
Oracle co-President  Mark Hurd  said at yesterday’s event. The
company will focus on “organic” growth from existing products
during the current fiscal year, he said.  ‘Strong Year’  “We think we’re going to have a really strong year,” said
Hurd, who joined Oracle in 2010 after serving as  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ) ’s chief executive officer.  Oracle, based in  Redwood City ,  California , embarked on its
run of acquisitions in 2005 when it bought the human-resources
software maker PeopleSoft Inc. The company has relied on deals
to boost sales to $35.6 billion in the fiscal year ended in May.
This year, revenue is projected to rise 8 percent to $38.6
billion, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The company combined the features it acquired from
PeopleSoft, J.D. Edwards and Siebel Systems into the Fusion
apps, which Oracle made available this week at its OpenWorld
conference, following six years of development. Fusion software
handles business tasks such as sales, human resources, finance
and inventory management.  Customers will be able to run the more than 100 Fusion
applications on their own computers or in Oracle’s data centers,
through the Oracle Public Cloud. The cloud service will be
available within weeks, the company said.  Social Network   Users can navigate the Fusion programs through the Oracle
Social Network, which spotlights tasks that need completing and
lets people share documents, CEO  Larry Ellison  said earlier this
week during a demonstration of the software. The approach mimics
some of the features of  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) ’s Chatter, a social-
networking service for businesses.  A feud between Oracle and Salesforce escalated this week
after Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff was scrubbed from a scheduled
appearance at the OpenWorld show. Benioff said it was because he
criticized Ellison for selling expensive computers instead of
just promoting online services.  “I pissed Larry off so badly that he canceled my
keynote,” Benioff said at a press conference this week.  Oracle, which ranks second to Microsoft Corp. in worldwide
software sales, has seen its stock climb 9 percent over the past
12 months. The shares fell 10 cents to $29.91 today on the
Nasdaq Stock Market.  Oracle also is introducing new hardware that it developed
with Sun technology. Earlier this week, the company unveiled two
computer systems, one with faster data-analysis capabilities and
another for organizing information from the Web, as it aims to
win market share from Hewlett-Packard,  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)  and  SAP AG. (SAP)   ‘No Confusion’  Shifting into the cloud helps Oracle keep pace with those
rivals, which are delivering more software via the Internet. It
also steps up Oracle’s competition with cloud pioneers,
including Salesforce.  “This is a really clear sign that they’re in the cloud now
-- there’s no confusion,” said  Brent Thill , an analyst at UBS
AG in San Francisco. He recommends buying Oracle’s shares. While
the company already had the technical capability to run
applications and databases in its data centers, it hasn’t
delivered that message to customers until now, Thill said.  “They needed to close more of a marketing gap than a
functionality gap,” Thill said.  Fusion apps mainly compete with software from Salesforce
and SAP. Customers will be able to visit an Oracle website and
sign up to run their apps and database software as an online
service through a browser. Oracle plans to keep companies’ data
separate from others’ information to bolster security.  The shift to a cloud-based subscription model won’t hurt
profits or rankle buyers, Oracle said.  The cloud service is built on industry-standard technology
that customers understand, Ellison said this week at OpenWorld.
He didn’t speak at yesterday’s analyst meeting, following the
death of  Steve Jobs , a personal friend.  “Just because you go to the cloud doesn’t mean you forget
everything you learned about  information technology  over the
last 20 years,” Ellison said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  