-- 
Orix May Buy U.S. Asset Manager to Enter Equity Market

-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 
2011-10-06T10:40:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/orix-may-buy-u-s-asset-management-firm-to-enter-equity-market.html
Orix Corp. (8591) , the Japanese financial
services provider whose operations include  investment banking 
and insurance, aims to acquire a U.S. asset management company
to add equities to its investment-product offerings.  Tokyo-based Orix may buy an investment management firm or
take over a team of fund managers and research staff in the U.S.
to start investing in stocks, Deputy President Haruyuki Urata
said in an interview in Tokyo on Oct. 3. The company has been in
talks with “several firms,” he said, declining to name
potential targets or say how much Orix would spend.  The financial company aims to boost its asset-management
operations in the U.S. and  Asia  by adding equity-related
investment products to its fixed-income portfolio. The firm
acquired stakes last year in a U.S. hedge fund manager that
invests mainly in debt, and a Vietnamese  investment company .  “We want to diversify our products and client network by
expanding into equity investments and attracting Asian
investors,” said Urata, 56, who is also chief financial officer.
“It’s crucial to show our stakeholders that we are always
challenging ourselves and eying new things.”  Shares of Orix, which got about 14 percent of its revenue
from the Americas last fiscal year, have fallen 26 percent this
year, while the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average shed 17
percent. The shares rose 3.3 percent to 5,880 yen today.  Good Timing  “The U.S. market is the most important for the asset
management business in terms of size and potential,” said Yoku Ihara, an investment adviser at Retela Crea Securities Co. in
 Tokyo . “It’s positive to see the firm is aggressively trying an
acquisition and it’s good timing because of the yen’s
appreciation.”  Overseas investors account for 52 percent of the company’s
shareholders. The yen has climbed 12 percent against the dollar
in the past six months, the only one of 16 major currencies to
advance.  Orix purchased 25 percent of Ho Chi Minh City-based
 Indochina Capital Corp. , which operates real estate funds with
$500 million under management, in November. It also acquired in
December a majority holding in Harrison, New York-based Mariner
Investment Group LLC, which manages about $11.7 billion.  The firm aims to double assets under Mariner Investment
within five years to more than $20 billion, Orix USA Corp.
President James Thompson said in an interview in October 2010.  Orix, formed in 1964, has about 18,000 employees and 883
subsidiaries and affiliates in more than 25 countries, according
to its  website . The company posted a 44 percent gain in profit
for the three months ended June to 23.7 billion yen ($309
million), driven by investment banking and overseas businesses.  Orix also plans to add new markets for its financing, and
will sell 400 million yuan ($63 million) of bonds by March 31 in
 Hong Kong , while considering raising funds in  Australia ,
 Thailand ,  South Korea ,  Singapore  and Malaysia, said Urata.  Dallas-based Orix USA in 2006 bought Houlihan Lokey Howard
& Zukin, a merger and acquisition adviser focused on helping
smaller companies restructure.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  