-- 
30-Year Mortgage Falls Below 4% for First Time

-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 
2011-10-06T14:31:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/mortgage-rates-in-u-s-decline-with-30-year-falling-below-4-.html
Mortgage rates  in the U.S. fell,
sending longer-term borrowing costs below 4 percent for the
first time on record, as stricter credit standards and the
slowing economy hold back a housing rebound.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed loan dropped to 3.94
percent in the week ended today from 4.01 percent,  Freddie Mac 
said in a statement. That’s the lowest in the McLean, Virginia-
based company’s records dating back to 1971. The average 15-year
rate declined to 3.26 percent from 3.28 percent last week.  Mortgage rates have tracked a slide in 10-year Treasury
yields amid concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis is worsening and
the  U.S. economy  may slide back into a recession. Low borrowing
costs have done little to revitalize the U.S. property market as
unemployment sticks above 9 percent, banks tighten credit and
home values decline. The  Federal Reserve  announced a plan last
month aimed at bolstering the economy and reducing loan rates
further by replacing shorter-term securities in its portfolio
with longer-term debt.  “There’s nothing to gloat over,”  Sal Guatieri , a senior
economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto, said in a telephone
interview today. “The record low interest rates are a
reflection of the times. The U.S. economy is fragile and the
global economic headwinds remain brisk.”  Loan Applications  Home-loan applications decreased 4.3 percent in the period
ended Sept. 30 from the prior week, according to a Mortgage
Bankers Association index. The refinancing gauge dropped 5.2
percent while the purchasing measure fell 0.8 percent, the
Washington-based trade group said yesterday.  Mortgage demand may be tested because new loan limits were
introduced this week for certain high-priced areas. The 9.1
percent drop in purchase applications for September from the
previous month suggests that buyers weren’t rushing to meet the
deadline and the limits won’t have a significant impact on
borrowing, according to  Paul Dales , a senior U.S. economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in Toronto.  The number of contracts to purchase previously owned homes
declined 1.2 percent in August, following a 1.3 percent drop the
previous month, the National Association of Realtors reported
last week. The S&P Case-Shiller index of home values in 20 U.S.
cities decreased 4.1 percent in July from a year earlier.  Purchases of new houses fell in August to a six-month low,
according to the Commerce Department. The median price slumped
7.7 percent from August 2010, the steepest 12-month drop since
July 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  