-- 
Most Latin America Countries ‘Well-Prepared´ for Crisis, Moody’s Leos Says

-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 
2011-10-06T17:03:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/most-latin-america-countries-well-prepared-for-crisis-moody-s-leos-says.html
Most Latin American nations are well-
prepared to confront a worsening debt crisis in  Europe  and
slower growth in the U.S. as  China ’s commodities purchases give
the region a “minimum” level of economic support, Moody’s
said.  “We don’t anticipate ratings changes in the region,” said
 Mauro Leos , senior  Latin America  analyst for Moody’s, in an
interview today in Buenos Aires. “Most countries are well-
prepared” after suffering through earlier financial and
economic shocks in the 1990s and 2000s, he added.  Mexico, Colombia and Central America are likely to be
hardest hit by any global slowdown as a result of their close
ties to the U.S., Leos said in an interview today in Buenos
Aires. Argentina, which hasn’t had access to international debt
markets since a 2001 default, and doesn’t have a contingency
credit line with the  International Monetary Fund , has more
limited options to face a global slowdown, Leos said.  Growth forecasts for Latin America will likely be lowered
through the end of the year and expansions will be below
historic trends of about 4 percent in 2012, Leos said. China’s
purchases of soybeans, copper, iron ore and other commodities,
while stabilizing for the region’s economies, aren’t enough to
outweigh a financial crisis in Europe and a U.S. slowdown, he
added.  Slower Growth  The IMF said in a report yesterday that it expects Latin
America’s growth to slow to 4.5 percent this year and 4 percent
in 2012, compared with a 5 percent expansion in the first half
of the year. Mexico, Brazil and  Venezuela  will lag behind the
rest of the region, while Panama will post the fastest expansion
of 7.2 percent, the report said.  Policy makers in Latin America should be prepared to use
interest rate cuts and consider fiscal measures to protect their
economies in the event that the global economy stalls, the IMF
said.  Should recessions in Europe and the U.S. materialize and
spill over to Asia, commodity producers in the region may face a
“triple shock” from weaker terms of trade, declining exports
and tighter global credit markets, the Washington-based lender
said.  Argentina, which hasn’t had access to international debt
markets since a 2001 default on $95 billion of bonds, is less
prepared than others in the region to confront an extended
slowdown, said  Gabriel Torres , Moody’s  Argentina  analyst.  Peru Concerns  Latin American nations such as Peru and Uruguay have
strengthened institutions and follow more predictable policies
that foster longer-term growth, Leos said during a presentation
at a Moody’s conference in Buenos Aires. He cited investor
concern about Peruvian President  Ollanta Humala , a former ally
of Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez, before he took office in
July, as one example.  “The so-called ‘bad’ candidate won in Peru and policies
haven’t changed,” Leos said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Camila Russo in Buenos Aires at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  