-- 
Mouchel Shares Plunge as CEO Resigns Over Accounting Error

-- B y   P e t e r   B r a n t o n
-- 
2011-10-06T15:44:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/mouchel-shares-plunge-after-ceo-resigns-over-accounting-error.html
Mouchel Group Plc (MCHL)  plunged the most in
more than nine years after saying an accounting error wiped out
4.3 million pounds ($6.6 million) of profit from a contract and
that Chief Executive Officer Richard Cuthbert resigned.  Mouchel, which provides highway maintenance services,
plummeted 34 percent, the most since it first sold shares in
2002. The shares closed at 20.5 pence at 4:30 p.m. in London
trading, giving the company a market value of 23 million pounds.  Cuthbert tendered his resignation with immediate effect
after the discovery of “an actuarial error” that meant full-
year profit would be hurt by a corresponding amount to the
reduced one-off gain on the contract, the company said in a
Regulatory News Service statement today.  In June, the company said that a “significant one-off
gain” on a long-term contract offset lower than anticipated
profitability on other contracts. Mouchel has seen its order
book drop as the U.K. coalition government pushes through public
spending cuts.  “The fact that there was no positive news in today’s
statement can only lead us to believe there isn’t much,” Joe Brent, an analyst at Liberium Capital, wrote in a note. “It is
difficult to see how that would not result in a breach” of at
least one bank loan covenant, he wrote.  The departing CEO “had some strong relationships with
customers and customer and personnel retention may become even
more of an issue,” Brent added.  He cut his full-year earnings per share estimate 66 percent
to 3.2 pence, and provisionally reduced the estimate for 2012 by
35 percent to 6.5 pence.  Mouchel declined to comment when contacted by telephone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Branton in London at 
 pbranton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  