-- 
House Panel Seeks Details on IRS Investigations of Nonprofits

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-10-06T19:05:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/house-panel-seeks-details-on-irs-investigations-of-nonprofits.html
Representative Charles Boustany, the
Republican chairman of the House Ways and Means oversight
subcommittee, is pressing the  Internal Revenue Service  to
provide details on its investigations of the nonprofit sector.  In a letter to IRS Commissioner Douglas Shulman, Boustany
asks the agency to explain how much of its budget is dedicated
to auditing the eligibility of organizations to be structured as
tax-exempt nonprofits. The Louisiana Republican also asks how
many audits the IRS has opened since 2008 and seeks data on the
revenue and assets reported by nonprofits in that period.  The request builds on a broader effort among  House
Republicans  to determine whether some nonprofits are improperly
classified as tax exempt. Most of lawmakers’ attention has been
focused on the  American Association  of Retired Persons, whose
tax-exempt status was the subject of a Ways and Means
subcommittee  hearing  in April.  “ AARP  is not the only tax-exempt organization that more
closely resembles a for-profit enterprise,” Boustany wrote in
his letter, obtained by Bloomberg News and dated today.
Lawmakers “have expressed concern that other tax-exempt
organizations may not be complying with the letter or spirit of
the tax-exempt regime, yet continue to enjoy the benefits of  tax
exemption .”  AARP has defended itself against charges that it doesn’t
deserve its tax exemption. Barry Rand, the organization’s chief
executive officer, testified in April that AARP is “strictly
nonpartisan” and said the revenue it collects helps keep
membership dues low.  Hospitals and Universities  Boustany’s letter extends the sumcommittee’s inquiry to the
tax-exempt status of hospitals and universities. He asks how the
IRS is complying with a statutory requirement that it review the
community benefits provided by hospitals every three years and
what the agency has learned about  executive compensation  and
unrelated business income at universities.  Boustany is also asking the IRS to explain how it reviews
whether a tax-exempt organization is engaged in “excessive
political campaign activity.” The agency created a stir in May
when it confirmed an investigation into whether five taxpayers
should pay gift taxes on contributions they made to political
advocacy groups that were organized as 501(c)(4) entities.  After criticism of the move by lawmakers, including all of
the Republicans on the Senate Finance Committee, the IRS said in
July that it was dropping the inquiry.  Boustany asked the IRS to respond to his letter by Oct. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  