-- 
Pakistan May Cut Rates to Spur Growth Weakened by Terrorism

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 
2011-10-07T05:55:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/pakistan-may-cut-rates-to-spur-growth-undermined-by-terrorism.html
Pakistan’s central bank may cut
 interest rates  for a second straight meeting, seeking to revive
growth in an economy battered by terrorism and floods.  The  State Bank  of Pakistan will lower the discount rate to
12.5 percent from 13.5, three of 5 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey said. The rest predicted a reduction of half a
percentage point before the announcement in Karachi tomorrow.  A 2 percentage point drop in Pakistan’s inflation rate in
the past three months offers Acting Governor Yaseen Anwar scope
to join emerging markets from  Russia  to  Brazil  in lowering
borrowing costs as growth falters in developed nations. A rate
cut might help shore up growth prospects in an economy that’s
seen growing  less than half  the pace of fellow South Asian
nations India,  Bangladesh  and  Sri Lanka  this year.  “Slowing inflation and a cut in  government borrowing  from
the central bank have built a strong case for an economic
stimulus,” Mustafa Pasha who manages the equivalent of $50
million in bonds as a  fund manager  at BMA Funds Ltd. in Karachi,
said before the rate announcement. “Investors are pricing in an
aggressive action in the next meeting.”  The Karachi Stock Exchange 100 Index, which has declined
1.5 percent since the start of this year, was little changed at
10:44 a.m. local time. Pakistan’s 10-year government bond yields
are trading at 12.6 percent, the highest level after Greece and
 Venezuela , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Currency Weakening  The Pakistan rupee has weakened 1.7 percent this year and
dropped to a record low on Sept. 16, prompting the central bank
last month to conduct what it called a “calibrated
intervention” to stabilize the currency. The rupee dropped 0.1
percent to 87.25 against the dollar today.  A weakening currency will increase import costs and stoke
inflationary pressures, limiting the room for the central bank
to ease its monetary policy aggressively, said Sayem Ali, a
Karachi-based economist at Standard Chartered Plc.  Consumer prices rose 10.46 percent in September from a year
earlier, after climbing 12.43 percent in July, according to the
 Federal Bureau of Statistics .  Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani ’s government named Anwar,
a deputy governor since March 2007, as the central bank’s acting
chief after Shahid Kardar quit on July 12. Anwar unexpectedly
cut rates in the last policy decision on July 30, almost three
weeks after Kardar resigned blaming state spending for fanning
prices.  Anwar cited the government’s commitment to “zero
borrowings” from the central bank as one of the reasons for
reducing rates. The federal government paid back 33 billion
rupees ($380 million) to the central bank this fiscal year
against 238 billion rupees  borrowing  in the same period a year
ago, according to the central bank.  Accelerating Growth  Policy makers in  Pakistan  are aiming to boost economic
growth to 4.2 percent in the fiscal year ending June 30, from
2.4 percent in the previous year, one of the lowest expansions
in the past decade, as the country struggled to cope with floods
and militant attacks.  Floods in August forced more than one million people from
their homes and damaged crops in parts of southern Pakistan
still recovering from last year’s worst ever monsoon inundations
that devastated the region.  Terror attacks in the South Asian nation have killed at
least 35,000 people since 2006, according to government
estimates.  Overseas Investment  Foreign direct investment in Pakistan fell 40 percent to
$112.4 million in the first two months of the fiscal year that
started July 1 from a year earlier. By contrast,  India , from
which Pakistan was partitioned in 1947 following independence
from British rule, got $13.4 billion in the three months through
June, a quarterly record.  As Pakistan’s relations with the U.S., its biggest donor,
frayed since Navy Seals killed al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden
in a unilateral raid on May 2,  China  has emerged as a key ally,
according to Saleem H. Mandviwalla, the chairman of the
government’s Board of Investment.  “Pakistani companies badly need a cut in interest rates,”
said Saad Khan, an economist at Arif Habib Ltd., in Karachi. “A
clear indication from the central bank that it’s on a rate
cutting path will help support new investment and expansion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad, Pakistan at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  