-- 
Doctor Accused of Aiding Bin Laden Raid May Face Treason Charge

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 
2011-10-07T07:04:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/pakistan-may-charge-doctor-with-high-treason-for-helping-cia.html
A Pakistani commission’s
recommendation that treason charges should be brought against a
local doctor accused of helping the U.S. track down  Osama bin Laden  may further strain ties between the two allies.  The inquiry team probing the unilateral U.S. raid that
killed the al-Qaeda leader on May 2 in a house in the Pakistani
army town of Abbottabad said yesterday that a case of
“conspiracy against the state of Pakistan and high treason”
should be filed against the doctor, Shakil Afridi. The panel,
headed by a Supreme Court judge, didn’t specify evidence it had
gathered against Afridi.  A treason conviction in Pakistan carries the death penalty.
The commission, which yesterday questioned the chief of the
country’s main spy agency, the Directorate of Inter-Services
Intelligence, is continuing its investigation.  If Afridi had informed authorities of the CIA’s interest in
the bin Laden compound the doctor “could have saved  Pakistan 
from that humiliation it faced after the operation,” Javed Hussain, a retired army brigadier, said in a phone interview
from Karachi today. “I don’t think he will be able to escape
Pakistani courts despite pressure from the U.S.”  Afridi ran a phony vaccination program in the Pakistani
town where the al-Qaeda leader hid, in an effort to obtain a DNA
sample from him,  Associated Press  reported.  The commission was formed to investigate how bin Laden
lived undetected for up to five years in Abbottabad, just 30
miles (50 kilometers) north of Islamabad. The ISI arrested
arrested Afridi in May.  Mullen Charges  The detention and prosecution of the doctor may add another
element to already troubled relations between the U.S. and
Pakistani governments, Hussain said. The Obama administration
has called for Afridi to be freed and allowed to live in the
U.S., the  BBC  reported.  Relations between the U.S. and Pakistan have soured amid
allegations by American officials that the Pakistani government
is aiding guerrilla attacks in  Afghanistan . Pakistan last month
rejected a claim by the retiring chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, Admiral Mike Mullen, that the Pakistan-based Haqqani
Taliban faction “acts as a veritable arm” of Pakistan’s Inter-
Services Intelligence Directorate.  The international medical charity, Doctors Without Borders,
in July criticized the U.S. government’s “alleged fake CIA
vaccination campaign” undertaken in a clandestine effort to
confirm bin Laden’s location. Such activities, the group said in
a July 14 statement, undermined legitimate health outreach
efforts and endangered health workers around the world.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  