-- 
Paterno’s Way Turned Penn State Champs Into Wall Street Bankers

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-10-06T15:45:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/paterno-s-way-turned-penn-state-champs-into-wall-street-bankers.html
The path from football to  Wall Street 
is well-worn. Now the championship-winning 1986 team at Penn
State University is retracing its steps.  Playing for Joe Paterno, the 84-year-old Brooklynite who’s
in his 46th season as head football coach, is tougher than Wall
Street, said John Shaffer, head of junk-bond sales at  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , who will join Paterno and other former
teammates-turned-bankers this weekend to mark the 25th
anniversary of the school’s most recent national football title.  “That pressure, that competition I tried to replicate on
Wall Street, but I just couldn’t,” said Shaffer, 47, the team’s
starting quarterback.  Others planning to attend a ceremony at Beaver Stadium in
State College,  Pennsylvania , on Oct. 8 at halftime of the
University of Iowa game are  Matthew Johnson , 46, head of global
equity syndicate at  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and a former nose tackle at
Penn State, and Lance Lonergan, 44, co-chief executive officer
at Weeden & Co., a backup quarterback in 1986.  Paterno, whose 405 wins are the most among major-college
football coaches, taught more than the game, the former players
said. They have applied the traits and principles they learned
at Penn State, such as teamwork, coping with failure and leaving
the game on the field, they said.  ‘Take a Risk’  “Not being afraid to fail means that you’re not afraid to
take risk,” said Johnson, who keeps a life-size cardboard
cutout of Paterno in his office near Times Square. “Having the
courage to stand up and state your opinion and then, on behalf
of the firm take a risk, is all about your level of conviction
that begins in the preparation. For me, that’s the key to being
successful on Wall Street.”  Football has long been a fertile recruiting ground for
finance.  Henry Paulson , who ran Goldman Sachs before becoming
U.S. Treasury secretary, played for  Dartmouth College  in the
1960s.  Steve Young , who played for  Brigham Young University  and
is in the Pro Football Hall of Fame, is a managing director at
private-equity firm Huntsman Gay Global Capital LLC. Pete Dawkins, the 1958 Heisman Trophy winner from the U.S. Military
Academy, was vice chairman of Citigroup Private Bank.  “They work extremely well in trading environments because,
one, it’s almost like playing a game,” said Ron Mitchell, CEO
of CareerCore Inc. and founder of the AlumniAthlete Network,
which places student athletes into internships and careers.
“There’s a winner and a loser, and you have to be able to
recover from losses, step up and win.”  Recovering From Defeat  Penn State’s 1986 national championship team had to recover
from defeat. The year before, they entered the Orange Bowl
undefeated and lost 25-10 to the University of  Oklahoma . Shaffer
lost his job as starting quarterback, and fought to win it back
the following season. Against Miami, a team with Heisman Trophy
winner Vinny Testaverde at quarterback and Michael Irvin, now a
Hall of Famer, at receiver, Penn State won, 14-10.  Paterno has shown how he earned his reputation for
perseverance. In August, he injured his right arm and hip when a
player ran into him during practice. He led a morning coaches
meeting via speaker phone from the hospital. In 2006, he broke
his leg in a sideline collision, forcing him to have surgery. In
2008, he had hip-replacement surgery from an injury suffered
while demonstrating an onside kick during practice.  “The thing that Joe really stressed with everybody was
having an unbelievably high level of intensity and tenacity, and
pushing yourself to perform at a high level every play, every
practice, every game, day in and day out,” said Tim Freeman,
44, an offensive tackle on the championship team and now a
principal at private-equity firm Elevation Partners LP, based in
 Menlo Park ,  California .  This season, Paterno’s team has won four  games  and lost
one, a 27-11 defeat to the University of  Alabama  in September.  ‘Austere Approach’  Players’ names don’t appear on the backs of Penn State’s
football jerseys, a tradition that emphasizes the team over the
individual and one the former teammates say they try to emulate
in their careers.  “I don’t think our uniforms look that bad,” Paterno said
for a profile about him on the university’s  website . “They say
something to kids about team-oriented play and an austere
approach to life.”  Trey Bauer, a former linebacker who works in  State College 
running a real-estate hedge fund, said Paterno drew a blue line
across the entrance to the practice field, indicating to players
that football should be kept separate from their personal lives.
That applies to Bauer’s career, he said.  “We’re all busy doing our work and doing our stuff, but
once that is over, then you have to concentrate on your
family,” said Bauer, 46.  ‘You Need to Fail’  Shaffer, Johnson, Lonergan, Freeman and Bauer said they
still keep in touch, sometimes running into one another at their
kids’ football games in  New Jersey . The men take a “a great
deal of pride” in their accomplishment and support one another
as their careers and lives change, said Shaffer, who headed U.S.
credit sales at Merrill Lynch & Co. until 2006, when he left
amid a management shakeup by then-CEO Stanley O’Neal.  “This business is one in which you need to fail in front
of a lot of people, to get booed by a lot of people, but somehow
figure out a way to come back from those failures,” Shaffer
said. “This business humbles everyone that’s been in it, as do
the trials and tribulations you have on the athletic field.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 