-- 
Peru Central Bank Keeps Rate at 4.25% for Fifth Month on Global Slowdown

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-10-06T23:35:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/peru-central-bank-keeps-rate-at-4-25-for-fifth-month-on-global-slowdown.html
Peru ’s central bank left borrowing
costs unchanged for a fifth month as the threat of recession in
Europe and the U.S. outweighs concern about accelerating
inflation.  The seven-member board, led by central bank President
Julio Velarde, kept the overnight rate at 4.25 percent, matching
the estimates of 17 of the 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
One analyst predicted a 0.25-point cut to 4 percent.  “The decision takes into account the slower growth being
observed in some components of spending and production, as we as
a heightening of global financial risks,” the bank said in a
 statement  on its website announcing the decision. “The central
bank will change its monetary policy stance if these trends
continue.”  The threat of stagnation in  Europe  and the U.S. has dimmed
the outlook for Peru’s commodity-dependent economy and led the
government to announce what it has called “preventive”
stimulus measures. Though the central bank has indicated it will
cut rates if global risks intensify and domestic activity slows,
rising prices and stronger-than-expected domestic growth
indicate there’s no need for laxer policy yet, said Juan Pablo Fuentes, a Latin America economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc.  “There isn’t an urgent need for lower rates because the
economy is growing and inflation is above target,” Fuentes said
in a telephone interview from  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “We
should see a small rebound in growth in the second quarter of
next year assuming there isn’t any bad news about the global
economy.”  Politics, Global Outlook  The Andean nation is tapping its first fiscal surplus in
three years to finance stimulus measures worth about $470
million as it seeks to reverse a decline in public
infrastructure spending in the first half of this year.  The stimulus will become more “aggressive” should a
global slowdown cause exports and company spending to ease,
Finance Minister Miguel Castilla said Sept. 22.  The  International Monetary Fund  on Sept. 20 cut its 2011
growth forecast for Peru to 6.2 percent from 6.6 percent
previously. Growth will slow to 5.6 percent next year, the
Washington-based lender said.  The central bank’s latest  survey  shows companies are less
optimistic about domestic demand and hiring prospects because
the global outlook has darkened, said Carlos Durand, president
of the Lima Chamber of Commerce, in a Sept. 27 interview.  Growth, Commodities  Investor caution on the global outlook and “political
uncertainty” following Peru’s presidential election is
affecting medium and long-term investment, Luis Castellanos,
chief executive of Banco Internacional del Peru, told reporters
Sept. 29. Demand for consumer loans remains “vigorous,” he
said.  President  Ollanta Humala  on Oct. 3 confirmed Velarde’s
appointment to serve a second five-year term, which  Pedro Tuesta , a former Peruvian central bank analyst and current
economist at 4Cast Inc. in  Washington , said indicated policy
continuity.  Growth in retail and services helped offset a slowdown in
manufacturing and construction in July and fuelled a 6.5 percent
rise in gross domestic product, beating analysts’ and the
central bank’s expectations.  Cement demand rose for the first time in three months in
August while electricity output climbed at the fastest annual
pace in six months, which suggests growth is accelerating,
Tuesta said.  Trade, China  Peru’s trade surplus will probably fall to $4.3 billion
next year from $7.4 billion this year because of lower copper,
zinc, gold and silver prices, Velarde said Oct. 4.  China ’s growth will remain “strong” this year and next,
which “will guarantee that the price of exports will remain
relatively high,” he said.  Gross domestic product growth will slow to 5.7 percent in
2012 from 6.3 percent this year, according to the central bank.  Economic activity will slow in the next few months amid
weaker construction and manufacturing output even though
consumer demand remains “very strong” Velarde told congress
Oct. 4. “In investment, there isn’t a lot of pessimism, but nor
has there been such a strong recovery yet.” Investors “are
waiting to see what will happen with the global outlook.”  Policy makers will probably give more weight to the fall-
out from Europe’s debt crisis, which led global stocks and
commodity prices to tumble since their last meeting, said
 Roberto Melzi , at strategist at Barclays Capital Inc. in  New
York .  “Risks to economic activity haven’t dissipated anywhere by
any means,” said Melzi, who forecasts a 0.25-point rate cut
today to be followed by similar cuts at the bank’s November and
December meetings. “The global crisis is deepening.”  ‘Monetary Policy Instruments’  Higher fuel costs pushed Peru’s consumer prices up 0.33
percent in September from 0.27 percent in August, driving the
annual inflation rate to 3.73 percent, a two-year high. The
central bank targets annual inflation in a range of 1 percent to
3 percent.  Monthly inflation may slow to close to zero before year-end
as some prices reverse recent increases, Velarde said Sept. 16.
The annual inflation rate will converge toward the central
bank’s target range next year, he said.  “The board is monitoring the outlook for inflation and its
determinants so that it can make future adjustments to monetary
policy instruments in a fast and timely manner,” the bank said
in its statement accompanying its decision.  Peru’s sol posted the steepest quarterly decline since 2008
in the July-through-September period as copper prices fell and
concern about slowing world growth wiped $10 trillion from
global equities.  The currency rose 0.5 percent today, capping its biggest
two-day gain since May 12-13 as the  European Central Bank  took
steps to shore up the euro area’s money market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 