-- 
Peru Sol Has Biggest Two-Day Rise in Four Months on ECB Move

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-10-06T21:21:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/peru-sol-has-biggest-two-day-rise-in-four-months-on-ecb-move.html
Peru’s sol posted its biggest two-day
gain in more than four months as moves by the  European Central
Bank  to shore up the euro region’s money market spurred demand
for higher-yielding, emerging-market assets.  The sol strengthened 0.5 percent to 2.7495 per  U.S. dollar ,
from 2.7630 yesterday. That brought its advance over the past
two days to 1 percent, the most since May 12-13.  The ECB will start buying covered bonds and offer banks two
additional unlimited loans, ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet
said today after policy makers left the benchmark  interest rate 
at 1.5 percent. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  on Oct.
4 signaled he’ll push forward with further expansion of monetary
stimulus if needed to boost U.S. growth.  “Overseas investors are buying soles again as
international markets are calmer,” said  Mario Guerrero , an
economist at Scotiabank Peru in Lima. Peruvian banks may seek to
reduce their “heavy” dollar holdings as the sol strengthens,
Guerrero said.  Peruvian banks’ net dollar holdings, including forward
contract obligations, totaled $425 million on Oct. 4, according
to the central bank. The banks had a negative dollar position a
month earlier.  The Andean nation’s central bank will probably leave its
benchmark rate at 4.25 percent for a fifth month today,
according to 17 of 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The bank
will announce its decision at about 7 p.m. New York time.  The central bank didn’t buy or sell dollars in the foreign
exchange market today.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due August 2020 dropped 10 basis points, or 0.1
percentage point, to 5.81 percent, according to prices compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  