-- 
Philippine Peso Advances as U.S. Economic Data Buoys Sentiment

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-10-06T08:59:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/philippine-peso-advances-as-u-s-economic-data-buoys-sentiment.html
The Philippine peso strengthened for
a second day after U.S. economic data released yesterday allayed
concern that the recovery in the world’s biggest economy is
faltering.  Companies in the U.S. added 91,000 jobs last month,
according to ADP Employer Services. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey was for an advance of 75,000. The peso
traded at a one-week high after President  Benigno Aquino  said
yesterday that the currency’s trading range has been within a
“tolerable” level. The peso has fallen 0.2 percent this year,
compared with drops exceeding 4 percent for  Taiwan ’s dollar,
 South Korea ’s won and  India ’s rupee.  “The peso is externally driven by the slight improvement
in data, especially in the U.S.,” said Emilio Neri, an
economist at the Bank of Philippine Islands in  Manila . “The
peso has been a relative outperformer and we suspect there’s
some degree of intervention in the market.”  The peso gained 0.4 percent to 43.68 per dollar as of the 4
p.m. close of trading in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon
Plc. The currency fell 0.9 percent last quarter, the least among
Southeast Asian currencies.  The peso’s recent weakness “doesn’t reflect our financial
condition” as the nation’s economic fundamentals are “still
solid,” Aquino told reporters yesterday. The government had a
budget surplus of 9.22 billion pesos ($211 million) in August,
reversing a 26.5 billion peso deficit in July, official data
released last month showed.  The yield on the 6.5 percent April 2021 bonds fell 17 basis
points, or 0.17 percentage point, to 5.94 percent, according to
Tradition Financial Services. That was the lowest rate since
Sept. 15.  The  Bureau of the Treasury  will auction 10- and 15-year
bonds on Oct. 10 to set the yields of securities that will be
offered to individual investors, according to its website. A
regular bond auction scheduled for Oct. 11 was scrapped, it
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  