-- 
Madoff Trustee Picard Sues ABN Amro, Nomura in Bid to Recover $47 Million

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h   a n d   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 
2011-10-06T22:00:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/picard-sues-abn-amro-nomura-kbc-luxembourg-bank-for-207-million.html
Irving H. Picard, the trustee
liquidating Bernard L. Madoff’s money management firm, sued
 Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ’s Nomura International and ABN Amro Group
NV’s ABN Amro Bank to recover a total of $46.9 million.  The companies invested with Madoff, who ran the biggest
Ponzi scheme, through feeder funds, according to the lawsuits
filed today in bankruptcy court in Manhattan. Picard seeks to
recover $25.5 million transferred to Amsterdam-based ABN Amro
and $21.4 million transferred to Tokyo-based Nomura.  “The subsequent transfers were derived from investments
with BLMIS,” Picard said in the suits, referring to Bernard L.
Madoff Investment Securities LLC.  Picard also filed lawsuits seeking $110 million from KBC
Investments Ltd. and $50.1 million from Caceis Bank Luxembourg.  The trustee alleges the money was invested in the Madoff
firm and taken out through feeder funds such as Fairfield Sentry
Ltd. and Harley International (Cayman) Ltd.  Madoff is serving a 150-year prison sentence for running
the biggest  Ponzi scheme  in history.  Mike Geller, a spokesman for Royal Bank of  Scotland , which
now owns ABN Amro, declined to comment on the lawsuit. Suzanne
Hallberg, a spokeswoman for Nomura, declined to comment.  A call to a representative of Caceis Investor Services in
 New York  wasn’t immediately returned. A call after business
hours to Viviane Huybrecht, director of communications for
KBC in Brussels, wasn’t immediately returned.  The cases are Picard v. ABN Amro Bank NV, 11-ap-2760, and
Picard v. Nomura International Plc, 11-ap-2759,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 