-- 
Policy Uncertainty Is Choking Recovery: Baker, Bloom and Davis

-- B y   S c o t t   R .   B a k e r ,   N i c h o l a s   B l o o m   a n d   S t e v e n   J .   D a v i s
-- 
2011-10-06T00:01:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/policy-uncertainty-is-choking-recovery-baker-bloom-and-davis.html
The recovery from the recession of
2008-09 remains anemic. Job growth has stalled, unemployment
stands above 9 percent, and there are renewed fears of another
output drop.  A major factor behind the weak recovery and gloomy outlook
is a climate of policy-induced economic uncertainty. An index we
devised (see attached chart) shows U.S. policy uncertainty at
historically high levels.  We constructed our index by combining three types of
information: the frequency of newspaper articles that refer to
economic uncertainty and the role of policy, the number of
federal tax code provisions set to expire in coming years, and
the extent of disagreement among forecasters about future
inflation and  government spending .  Our index  shows prominent surges in policy uncertainty
around the time of major elections, the outbreak of wars and
after the Sept. 11 attacks. It shows another surge after the
bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holding Inc. in September 2008.
Policy uncertainty has remained at high levels ever since.  Of course, policy uncertainty could be high simply because
general economic uncertainty is high. To evaluate this view, we
used Google News listings to construct a broad index of economic
uncertainty and a narrower index focused on policy uncertainty.  Types of Uncertainty  Comparing the two reveals several episodes that involve
large surges in economic uncertainty but little or no jump in
policy uncertainty. Examples include the Asian financial crisis
of 1997 and several instances of recession jitters in the second
half of the 1980s. In short, the data refute the view that
economic uncertainty necessarily breeds policy uncertainty.  In the last decade, however, policy became a larger source
of movements in overall economic uncertainty and an increasingly
important concern for businesses and households.  Why has policy uncertainty increased so much? One argument
holds that the recent financial crisis created an atmosphere of
extreme uncertainty, bringing new and difficult policy issues to
the fore. No doubt, the crisis presented policy makers with
difficult choices in 2008 and 2009. But the persistence of
policy uncertainty wasn’t inevitable. Rather, it reflects
deliberate policy decisions, harmful rhetorical attacks on
business and “millionaires,” failure to tackle entitlement
reforms and fiscal imbalances, and political brinkmanship.  Debt Ceiling  The wave of uncertainty during the debt-ceiling dispute
between Democrats and Republicans this summer was, quite
clearly, an outcome of the political process. Day by day,
markets swung wildly as politicians parried and counter-parried.  At the regulatory level, efforts by the  National Labor
Relations Board  to prevent Boeing Co. from operating its
aircraft-assembly line in  South Carolina  have injected another
source of uncertainty into business investment decisions.  The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act that
President  Barack Obama  signed into law in March 2010 is another
example. Rather than simple reforms aimed at efficiency
improvements and cost savings, the law seeks to remake the U.S.
health-care delivery system, dramatically expanding the role of
government and imposing new burdens on businesses and
individuals. Even in narrowly economic terms, the measure adds
to the uncertainty facing households and businesses.  Moreover, its political durability is in doubt. The
Democratic leadership in Congress opted to pursue the most
radical plan that could muster the necessary 60 votes in the
Senate and a thin majority in the House. As a result, the
legislation failed to attract a single Republican vote in either
chamber. That political strategy ensured the act would become
the focus of future electoral battles and rollback efforts.  Legal Challenges  The health-care act also faces major legal challenges. The
 U.S. Court of Appeals  for the 11th Circuit struck down the law
on constitutional grounds, concluding that Congress lacks the
authority to require individuals to purchase health insurance or
pay a penalty. The legality of the individual mandate will
remain unsettled until the Supreme Court rules on the matter. In
sum, the new law has intensified the economic, political and
legal uncertainties surrounding the U.S. health-care system.  To identify the drivers of policy uncertainty, we drilled
into the Google News listings and quantified the factors at
work. Several factors account for the high levels of policy
uncertainty in 2010 and 2011, but monetary and tax issues
predominate. Uncertainties related to health-care policy, labor
regulations, national security and sovereign-debt concerns play
contributing roles.  Expiring Tax Cuts  One important example involves the Bush-era tax cuts,
originally set to expire at the end of 2010. Democrats and
Republicans disagreed over whether to extend all or some of
these tax cuts. Rather than resolving the uncertainty in
advance, Congress waited until the final hour before deciding to
extend the provisions. Unfortunately, the extension is for only
two years, setting the stage for another major political battle
in 2012 and more taxpayer uncertainty.  The partisan tax-cut fight in 2010 highlights a broader and
unwelcome trend. Scheduled expirations of federal tax code
provisions were rare before 2000 but have grown rapidly. More
than 130 provisions are slated to expire in 2011 and 2012, in
many cases setting the stage for new political battles. The $447
billion jobs plan unveiled by the president last month involves
several new proposals for temporary tax code changes that, if
implemented, may or may not prove temporary.  Debt Crisis  Across the Atlantic, European policy makers have failed to
develop a coherent and credible response to the Greek debt
crisis. The lack of resolution has dragged down equity markets
worldwide and stoked fears of contagion to other European
sovereign borrowers. The crisis also raises serious questions
about the solvency of major European financial institutions and
the viability of the euro. These uncertainties undermine growth
prospects in  Europe  and diminish trade opportunities for U.S.
producers.  Negative economic effects of uncertainty operate through
multiple, reinforcing channels. When households are fearful
about job loss, wages, taxes and retirement funds, they cut back
on expenditures. The drop in  consumer spending  means weak sales
for businesses and lower sales-tax collections for governments.  Hiring Hesitation  When businesses are uncertain about taxes, health-care
costs and regulatory initiatives, they adopt a cautious stance.
Because it is costly to make a hiring or investment mistake,
many companies will wait for calmer times to expand. If too many
businesses wait, the recovery never takes off. Weak investments
in capital goods, product development and worker training also
undermine longer-run growth.  So how much near-term improvement could we gain from a
stable, certainty-enhancing policy regime? We estimate that
restoring 2006 levels of policy uncertainty would yield an
additional 2.5 million jobs over 18 months. Not a full solution
to the jobs shortfall, but a big step in the right direction.  ( Scott R. Baker  and Nicholas Bloom are economists at  Stanford
University . Steven J. Davis, an economist at the University of
Chicago Booth School of Business, is a contributor to Business
Class. The opinions expressed are their own.)  To contact the writers of this column:
Scott R. Baker at  srbaker@stanford.edu ;
Nicholas Bloom at  nbloom@stanford.edu ;
Steven J. Davis at  Steven.Davis@chicagobooth.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 