-- 
Pound Slumps After BOE Restarts Bond-Purchase Program, Keeps Rates on Hold

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-10-06T15:41:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/pound-slumps-after-boe-restarts-bond-purchase-program-keeps-rates-on-hold.html
The pound slumped against the dollar,
euro and yen after the  Bank of England  reactivated its bond-
purchase program and kept its benchmark  interest rate  at a
record low to help revive the U.K.’s faltering economy.  Sterling declined against all of its 16 major peers as
Britain’s monetary policy makers boosted the central bank’s
quantitative-easing program by 75 billion pounds ($115 billion)
to 275 billion pounds. Eleven of 32 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg before the decision predicted an increase in asset
purchases of at least 50 billion pounds. The main rate was
maintained at 0.5 percent, as predicted by all 53 economists in
a separate survey.  “It’s slightly bigger than we thought,” said  John Hydeskov , chief analyst at Danske Bank A/S in London. “It’s
definitely not good for the pound. We’re seeing a big weakening
at the moment. I would say that this can continue to 87.50
pence” against the euro.  The pound dropped 0.5 percent to $1.5390 at 4:33 p.m. in
 London . Sterling fell 1 percent to 87.19 pence per euro and was
0.7 percent weaker at 117.89 yen. The U.K. FTSE 100 Index of
shares climbed 3.7 percent, while the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index
rose 2.7 percent.  The central bank, which expects to complete the new round
of purchases in four months, said in a statement that slowing
global growth and the turmoil in Europe “threaten the U.K.
recovery.” It also said it is now “more likely” that
inflation will undershoot its 2 percent goal in the medium term.  Economic Growth  The central bank has faced pressure to embark on further
quantitative easing to help revive an economy battling the
steepest government spending cuts since World War II and the
worsening euro-area debt crisis.  The U.K economy grew less than economists forecast in the
second quarter, expanding 0.1 percent from the previous three
months, the  Office for National Statistics  said yesterday. That
was lower than the 0.2 percent previously published and missed
the 0.2 percent expansion forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  “The Bank of England is clearly very worried, given what
it’s just done,” said Michael Riddell, a London-based  fund
manager  at M&G Investments, which oversees the equivalent of
about $323 billion of assets.  The central bank last announced an increase in its bond
program in November 2009 and the purchases ended in early 2010.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  backed the Bank
of England’s decision to expand its asset-buying program and
stated that the central bank may buy private-sector securities
as well as  government bonds .  Rate Bets  “I am therefore writing to authorize an increase in the
ceiling of asset purchases financed by the issuance of central
bank reserves,” Osborne said in a letter to Bank of England
Governor  Mervyn King . The letter was released by the Treasury in
London today.  The move is a “proactive surprise,” said  Neil Jones ,
London-based head of European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd., in an e-mailed comment. “I expect the
pound to fall, whilst sending U.K. stocks, property assets and
both producer and consumer confidence higher. We would expect
further QE measures in the pipeline.”  Short-sterling futures rose, indicating investors are
adding to bets that rates will stay lower for longer. The
implied yield on the contract expiring in March fell two basis
points to 1.03 percent.  U.K. government bonds decline with the 10-year gilt yield
rising three basis points to 2.38 percent. The 3.75 percent
security due September 2021 fell 0.225, or 2.25 pounds per
1,000-pound face amount, to 112.015. The two-year note yield
climbed three basis points to 0.62 percent.  Gilts have returned 12 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies, surpassing 8 percent for German
bunds and 5.8 percent for French securities.  The pound has declined 2 percent in the past six months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes,
which measure a basket of 10 developed-market currencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  