-- 
Pound Fluctuates Versus Euro Before BOE Stimulus, Interest-Rate Decision

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-10-06T10:21:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/pound-fluctuates-versus-euro-before-boe-stimulus-interest-rate-decision.html
The pound swung between gains and
losses against the euro before the  Bank of England ’s latest
interest-rate decision amid speculation it will restart a bond-
purchase program to help revive the U.K. economy.  The Monetary Policy Committee will leave its key rate
unchanged at 0.5 percent, according to all 53 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Eleven of 32 respondents surveyed
separately predict at least a 50 billion-pound ($77 billion)
increase in its asset-purchase program, known as quantitative
easing.  “The market is still focused on the likelihood of further
QE by the November meeting,” said  Ian Stannard , London-based
head of European currency strategy at Morgan Stanley. “The BOE
will move towards further QE in coming months and ultimately
sterling will come under pressure.”  The pound was little changed at 86.26 pence per euro as of
11:07 a.m. in London, after earlier dropping 0.4 percent. It was
0.1 percent weaker at 118.62 yen and strengthened 0.1 percent to
$1.5481.  The Stoxx Europe 600 rose 1.6 percent and the U.K.’s  FTSE
100 Index (UKX)  advanced 1.4 percent.  Morgan Stanley recommends selling the pound on any “relief
rallies” that are likely to occur should the central bank
refrain from announcing further stimulus for the U.K. economy.  The Bank of England has faced pressure to embark on more
quantitative easing to help revive an economy battling the
steepest government spending cuts since World War II and a
worsening euro-area debt crisis.  ‘Awful’ U.K. Growth  The U.K.’s economy grew less than expected in the second
quarter, expanding 0.1 percent from the first three months of
the year, the  Office for National Statistics  said yesterday.
That was lower than the 0.2 percent previously published by the
statistics body and also missed the 0.2 percent expansion
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  “There’s a reasonable chance that the Bank of England
could do something as early as today,” said  Elisabeth Afseth , a
fixed-income analyst at Evolution Securities Ltd. in London.
“We had the downward revision of the Q2 GDP numbers which were
pretty awful even before, so I don’t think there’s anything in
the data that would really stop them.”  If the central bank doesn’t announce an expansion of
stimulus today “it’s probably a matter of waiting a month,
rather than it not happening,” Afseth said. “That ought to
give a little bit of support to the gilts.”  The U.K. 10-year gilt yield was little changed at 2.36
percent. The 3.75 percent security due September 2021 traded at
112.225. The two-year note yielded 0.58 percent.  Gilts have returned 12 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies, surpassing 8 percent for German
bunds and 5.8 percent for French securities.  The pound has declined 1.3 percent in the past six months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes,
which measure a basket of 10 developed-market currencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 