-- 
Power Companies Borrow Record in Loans as Cost of Fuel Jumps: Japan Credit

-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   E m i   U r a b e
-- 
2011-10-07T02:55:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/power-companies-borrow-record-in-loans-as-cost-of-fuel-jumps-japan-credit.html
Japan ’s top five electric utilities,
shut out of the  bond market  following the Fukushima nuclear
disaster, are borrowing a record 4 trillion yen ($52 billion) in
loans at a premium to pay for the surging cost of fuel.  Tohoku Electric Power Co., based in the tsunami-damaged
northeast, will pay 1.4 percent interest on the 50 billion yen,
15-year loan it clinched on Sept. 30, or a 45.5 basis points
spread over the similar-maturity government notes, according to
Bloomberg calculations based on company data. Borrowing at that
rate, the Japanese utilities would pay an extra 2.6 billion yen
in loan interest this fiscal year than they would selling bonds,
the calculations show.  Tokyo Electric  Power Co., Japan’s largest utility, and its
peers are facing lower profit margins as the shutdown of Japan’s
atomic plants after the world’s worst accident since Chernobyl
has forced the utilities to burn more natural gas and coal to
meet demand. The companies are scrambling for alternative
sources of financing to replace a net 1.25 trillion yen worth of
bonds retired since the March 11 earthquake and tsunami caused
uncertainty over the future of atomic energy in the country.  “Reactor shutdowns and the burning of fossil fuel is
pushing utilities into the red and forcing the industry to rely
on bank loans and short-term financing,” said Kenji Okamoto, a
Tokyo-based senior analyst at the corporate finance group of
Moody’s Japan K.K. “With so much left to be resolved it’s hard
for them to sell bonds.”  Fuel Costs  Japan’s liquefied natural gas and coal imports in the five
months to August 31 rose to a record, boosting the country’s
import bill for the two main power fuels by 31 percent to 2.45
trillion yen from the same period a year earlier, according to
the most recent data compiled by the Ministry of Finance.  There were no bond sales announced by nuclear plant
operators in Japan since the quake, Bloomberg data show. The
extra yield investors demand to own power company debt instead
of similar-maturity government notes soared to a peak of 202
basis points on June 29, from 12 basis points a day before the
disaster, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  The spread narrowed to 39 basis points on Oct. 5, following
 Tokyo  Electric’s win of state support to help compensate
Fukushima victims on July 28. Relative spreads on global
utilities climbed to 158 basis points, from 111 the day before
magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami slammed the Tohoku regions
coastline, damaging the Fukushima plant, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data show.  Chubu Loan  Tokyo Electric’s shares rose as much as 10 percent to 232
yen and traded at 220 yen at the 11 a.m. trading break, leading
gains of the country’s utilities stocks today, with Chubu
Electric Power Co. climbing as much as 2.7 percent to 1,528 yen.  Chubu Electric, forced to shut its Hamaoka atomic plant,
borrowed about 450 billion yen in loans from lenders including
state-owned  Japan Bank for International Cooperation  and the
 Development Bank  of Japan, said spokesman Naohiro Uchikawa.
That’s the biggest annual loan amount for the utility in at
least 23 years, Uchikawa said.  The nation’s third-largest utility, based in Nagoya in
central Japan, raised estimates of its financing needs this year
to 550 billion yen from the original 300 billion yen, Uchikawa
said, citing an increase in costs for fuel procurement and
operation of gas-fired generators.  The 1.09 percent interest rate on the utility’s 100 billion
yen 10-year loan inked on Jun 30 carry a spread of 45.93 basis
points above government debt, according to Bloomberg
calculations based on data provided by the utility.  “A bond sale still is one option for us,” Uchikawa said.
“We are making efforts to strengthen our financial stability,”
he said.  Reactor Shutdown  The March 11 disaster triggered explosions at the Fukushima
plant operated by Tokyo Electric, contaminating soil, waters and
forests with radiation. Since then, reactors that were stopped
for maintenance remain shut amid government- mandated tests to
assess whether the plants can withstand strong quakes, tsunamis
or a loss of power to cooling systems.  As of Oct. 6, only 10 of the country’s 54 nuclear reactors
were generating power, according to Japan Nuclear Technology
Institute data.  “No one can foresee how the existence of Japanese power
utilities will change after the Fukushima crisis. This
uncertainty would give a certain premium to costs of power bond
issuance,” said Hiroshi Nakamura, who helps oversee 3.5
trillion yen in assets as general manager of fixed-income
investment in Tokyo at Mizuho Asset Management Co.  Sale Scrapped  Kansai Electric  Power Co. in June postponed indefinitely a
sale of 20 billion yen of 10-year bonds scheduled for that
month. The country’s second-largest power company, based in
 Osaka , delayed the sale due to “market conditions that changed
rapidly,” according to an e-mailed statement at the time from
Nomura Securities Co., which was arranging the transaction with
four other banks.  The cost of protecting the debt of Tokyo Electric, Kyushu
Electric Power Co. and Chubu Electric against default ranked
among the country’s six worst-performing credit default swaps
over the month to Oct. 5, Bloomberg data show. Kansai Electric
ranked ninth.  Five-year contracts on Tokyo Electric’s debt have surged
984.7 basis points since March 10 to 1,025 basis points on Oct.
5, according to data provider CMA. Contracts on Chubu Electric
rose 322 basis points to 360.  Credit Risk  The Markit iTraxx Japan index of credit-default swaps fell
6 basis point to 225 basis points as of 1:19 p.m. in Tokyo,
Deutsche Bank AG prices show. The risk benchmark is on course
for its first decline since Sept. 30, according to CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately negotiated market.  Contracts to insure Japanese government debt against
default for five years fell 10 to 149 yesterday.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite. The
contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  The yield on Japan’s 10-year government bond was at 0.97
percent on Oct. 5, the second lowest of 32 developed markets
tracked by Bloomberg after  Switzerland ’s. Ten-year debt yields
1.84 percent in Germany and 1.89 percent in the U.S.  Funding Shortfall  The yen is the best performer this year so far among the 10
developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes. The yen traded at 76.68 per dollar in Tokyo
yesterday, after reaching a post-World War II high of 75.95 on
Aug. 19. The Japanese currency was at 102.60 per euro.  Tepco, as Tokyo Electric is known, may have a funding
shortfall of 8.6 trillion yen during the next decade if reactors
are kept closed and the company fails to raise electricity
rates, according to a government panel investigating the
utility’s finances.  The panel, formed after the nuclear accident and headed by
lawyer Kazuhiko Shimokobe, also estimated Tepco is exposed to at
least 5.7 trillion yen in compensation payments and
decommissioning costs for Fukushima reactors.  Kyushu Electric, which powers the most southern of Japan’s
four main islands, expected to incur a 16 billion yen net loss
in six months ended Sept. 30, the company said last month. The
utility cited deferred restart of reactors and climbing fuel
costs as reasons for the loss.  Turning to Loans  The company sought a 450 billion yen loan from banks
including  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) ’s corporate bank unit and
the Development Bank of Japan, two people familiar with the
talks said on Sept. 15. Eiji Yamamoto, a spokesman for Kyushu
Electric, declined to comment as his company is negotiating with
lenders.  On Sept. 8, 17 regional banks, including  Nishi-Nippon City
Bank Ltd. (8327)  lent 104.5 billion yen in loans to Kyushu Electric,
Yamamoto said.  In Japan’s western region, Osaka-based Kansai Electric said
on Sept. 22 that its net income tumbled 69 percent to 24 billion
yen in the fiscal fist half. The company plans to borrow 500
billion yen in loans in the year to March 31 from local banks,
in part to cover fuel costs, the Nikkei reported on Sept. 27.
Yusuke Inoue, a spokesman for Kansai Electric, declined to
comment on its bank loan needs.  Tohoku Electric, the utility based in Sendai City near the
epicenter of the quake, signed a commitment line for 400 billion
yen syndicated loans with local lenders, said spokesman Masumi
Nakatsuyama.  “As long as this uncertainty over restart of reactors
persists, utilities may have to hinge on bank loans in the next
business year,” said Hiroki Shibata, Tokyo-based associate
director of the corporate and government ratings division at
 Standard & Poor’s . “And if this persist for two to three years,
their funding may be in trouble.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Emi Urabe in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  