-- 
Prices for Young Racehorses Surge as Sheikh Mohammed Spends at Top Auction

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-10-06T23:01:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/prices-for-young-racehorses-surge-as-sheikh-mohammed-spends-at-top-auction.html
Prices for top young race horses at
 Europe ’s biggest auction jumped 30 percent following a slow-down
in breeding and increased demand from Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the ruler of Dubai.  The average price paid for a yearling - a one-year-old
untrained thoroughbred racehorse - during the first two days at
 Tattersalls , Europe’s biggest bloodstock auctioneer, was 139,641
guineas ($226,254). The average price over the entire three-day
sale last year was 107,445 guineas. The guinea, no longer in use
and equivalent to 1.05 pounds, was the unit of currency often
paid to artists and professionals.  “Quality, that’s what these guys want,” Jimmy George,
marketing director of Tattersalls, said in an interview near the
auction ring where the auction finishes today. “If they land on
a catalogue full of beautifully bred, very good-looking
yearlings, then they are going to have fun and enjoy themselves
and they are going to buy.”  Top young racehorses have also become more expensive as
breeding slowed amid the global economic downturn, George said.
About 500 thoroughbreds were in the auction this year, compared
with 689 horses during last year’s sales.  “There is actually a decline in the numbers of animals
being produced,” George said. “So we can tighten up the
catalogue and you get supply and demand coming more in line, and
that’s what everybody needs. Breeding thoroughbreds sadly is not
a process you can just stop. Last year was the last of the pre-
recession foal crop.”  Sheikh’s Spending  Accompanied by his chief buyer John Ferguson, Sheikh
Mohammed has been the top buyer so far at Tattersalls, spending
5.4 million guineas. That’s 68 percent more than what the Dubai
ruler spent over the entire auction last year. Irish millionaire
 John Magnier  is the second-biggest spender with 3.6 million
guineas.  Total turnover over the first two days was 33.9 million
guineas, compared with 48.2 million guineas over three days in
2010. The median price paid for a yearling so far is 100,000
guineas, or 30,000 guineas higher than last year.  The most expensive yearling of the first two days was a bay
filly by  Galileo , which was sold for 800,000 guineas to
Australian owner and breeder Paul Makin. He outbid Magnier for
the filly, a half-sister of this year’s Derby winner  Pour Moi .
Galileo is the leading stallion of Magnier’s Coolmore operation.  Another Galileo filly was bought by Alan Cooper for 700,000
guineas on behalf of the Greek Niarchos family. Magnier spent
the same amount on a colt by Oasis Dream out of a Galileo mare.  ‘Tricky Week’  It could have been “a tricky week,” to be selling
Europe’s best young racehorses, given the global economic
downturn and uncertainty about Europe’s debt crisis, Harry Herbert, managing director of Newbury, England-based  Highclere
Thoroughbred Racing , said in an interview at Tattersalls.  “But at the moment, it’s not affecting the top end of our
market,” he said. “Sheikh Mohammed is here and so is his
brother Sheikh Hamdan, continuing their remarkable investment
and support which the industry now is very dependent upon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in Newmarket through the London
newsroom on   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  