-- 
Putin Says Russia to Cut State’s Role in Economy, Keep Stability

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-10-06T14:27:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/putin-says-russia-to-cut-state-s-role-in-economy-keep-stability.html
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , who is
seeking to return to the presidency next year, pledged to pursue
plans to reduce the state’s role in the economy without
undermining political stability.  “Our strategic goal is that the state should, over time,
reduce its direct presence in the economy, so we will gradually
exit the capital of state corporations,” Putin said today at
VTB Capital’s annual investment forum in Moscow. “Changes, of
course, are needed and they will happen, but we have to act
carefully. We don’t need huge upheavals, we need a great
Russia.”  The prime minister, who has been in power since 2000 and
may serve as president for another 12 years, pledged to work
closely with business to cut red tape and combat graft. The
state’s “mission is to offer a shoulder to business and remove
barriers that hinder it,” he said.  Putin, 58, said Sept. 24 he’ll seek to return to the
presidency in March elections, pushing aside his protégé,  Dmitry Medvedev , who replaced him in the Kremlin for four years because
of a constitutional ban on three consecutive terms. Medvedev, a
46-year-old former corporate lawyer, has promised to fight
corruption and attract foreign investment to cut Russia’s
dependence on energy exports.  ‘Liberal Experiments’  Putin would take the country’s top job again just as the
global slowdown threatens to throttle demand for oil, the
mainstay of the Russian economy. The risk is that Putin, an
officer in the Soviet-era KGB who says policy makers must avoid
“liberal experiments,” will struggle to combat challenges that
threaten the country’s long-term growth prospects, former
Economy Minister Yevgeny Yasin said in a Sept. 25 interview.  Foreign investors could pull out of  Russia  after Putin’s
return as president, Jochen Wermuth, who helps manage about $350
million as chief investment officer at his Russia-focused
Wermuth Asset Management GmBH, said earlier this year.  Concern over the global economy and  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
crisis has roiled markets in Russia, which saw its economy
contract 7.8 percent in 2009, its worst recession on record.
Russia is vulnerable to swings in  oil prices  and will have to
cut spending, including pensions, to bring its budget into line
and its dependency on commodity exports, the  International
Monetary Fund  said on Sept. 21.  Outflows of capital reached an estimated $18.7 billion in
the third quarter, bringing this year’s total to $49.3 billion,
the central bank said Oct. 4.  Better Prepared  Putin said Russia, whose $516.8 billion of international
reserves are the world’s third-largest, is better prepared than
it was in 2008 to withstand global economic turbulence.  The country, which has a debt of below 10 percent of gross
domestic product, may run a balanced budget this year and in
2012 after two years of deficits, Putin said. The government
won’t borrow on the domestic or international markets for the
rest of the year, which will keep it from withdrawing about 350
billion rubles ($10.8 billion) from the economy, he said.  Financial discipline is a “keystone” of the Russian
government, said Putin. Russia aims to raise a total of about 1
trillion rubles from state asset sales between 2012 and 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  