-- 
Qatar Airways Plans ‘Multi-Billion-Dollar’ Jet Order Next Month, CEO Says

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-10-06T12:35:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/qatar-air-plans-multi-billion-dollar-jet-order-at-dubai-air-show.html
Qatar Airways Ltd., the  Middle East ’s
second-biggest carrier, plans to place a “multi-billion-dollar
aircraft order” at the  Dubai Air Show  next month, Chief
Executive Officer Akbar al Baker said today.  The Gulf airline already has orders for more than 200
aircraft with a value in excess of $40 billion at list prices,
Al Baker said at a press conference in Oslo, without specifying
whether he’s interested in more single-aisle or widebody jets.  Qatar Airways failed to place an order for Airbus SAS’s
A320neo at the  Paris Air Show  in June after earlier saying it
would sign a deal for the re-engined version of the European
company’s narrowbody model. The requirement to be filled at the
Dubai expo starting Nov. 13 isn’t for Qatar’s planned discount
unit, which would use existing jets, Al Akbar said today.  “The low-cost airline would be launched with the aircraft
we already have,” he said. “We will not buy new planes. We
cannot have very high ownership costs.” The discount project is
“very much alive,” the CEO added, though will be implemented
only if and when low-cost rivals begin to affect market share.  Qatar Air also aims to announce a  route to Helsinki 
“imminently,” the CEO said today, after the Doha-based carrier
began flights to  Norway  yesterday. It already operates to the
Nordic capitals of Stockholm and Copenhagen.  ‘Delayed Indefinitely’  Al Baker said plans for an initial public offering are on
hold given the likely impact of concern about the global economy
and pending completion of the carrier’s expansion program. Qatar
had been considering a share sale to fund its strategy of
establishing Doha as a hub for long-haul travel between  North
America  and  Europe  and the high-growth economies of  Asia .  “The IPO has been delayed because of the global economic
situation,” the executive said, adding that it would be
“foolish” to go ahead with a sale right now. “I don’t think it’s
the right time. So it has been delayed indefinitely until we see
the light at the end of the tunnel.”  Qatar Airways  currently operates about 100 aircraft to more
than 100 destinations in Europe, the Middle East,  Africa , the
Asia-Pacific and the Americas, and plans to serve more than 120
routes by 2013 with a fleet exceeding 120 planes. Al Baker
indicated at the Paris Air Show that plans to buy Bombardier
Inc.’s CSeries plane, a rival to the Airbus A320, were on hold.  ‘Good Year’  Qatar Airways is forecasting a profit for the fiscal year
ending March 31 “similar” to the $220 million posted last year,
Al Baker said.  “As the oil price is going down we think we’ll again have a
very good year,” he said. First-half earnings were “very good,”
he added, while declining to give specific figures.  Al Baker declined to say whether Qatar Airways will look at
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ’s BMI unit, which may be offered for sale,
or  Richard Branson ’s Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd., which has
been seeking a partner. Both carriers are major operators at
 London ’s Heathrow airport, the busiest in Europe.  “I don’t know,” the executive said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Oslo at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  