-- 
Railroad Strike Threat Blocked as Obama Creates Review Board

-- B y   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 
2011-10-06T23:06:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/rail-strike-threat-blocked-as-obama-said-to-create-emergency-review-board.html
President  Barack Obama  appointed a
board to review a dispute between U.S. freight railroads
including  Warren Buffett ’s Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  and most
of their unions, averting a threatened strike for at least two
months.  The move follows an Oct. 3 vote by the Brotherhood of
Locomotive Engineers and Trainmen to strike at 12:01 a.m.
tomorrow. A national rail strike would cost the  U.S. economy  as
much as $2 billion a day, according to an estimate by the
Washington-based  Association of American Railroads .  The board will examine the dispute between the freight
railroads and labor groups representing 70 percent of their
workers, and propose a solution.  “Freight rail is vital to our economy and our future,”
Obama said in a statement released by the White House. “It’s in
our national interest to make sure our freight rail system runs
smoothly, since a disruption could affect businesses across the
country and cause unnecessary damage to our already-fragile
economy.”  The president can set up a review board if a strike
threatens interstate commerce. By law, the establishment of a
board prohibits a strike or lockout during the 30 days the board
has to devise its settlement recommendation and the 30 days that
workers and railroads have to consider it.  Thirteen unions representing more than 130,000 employees
have been in contract talks with the railroads since January.
The United Transportation Union and its Yardmasters Division
struck a tentative agreement in June that the railroads want the
other 11 groups to accept. The unions rejected the deal’s wage
and health-care terms.  Cooling Off  The  National Mediation Board , a federal agency that helps
resolve labor relations for railroads and airlines, released the
engineers group and 10 other unions from contract talks with
Union Pacific, Burlington Northern and other large freight
carriers on Sept. 6. The resulting 30-day “cooling off period”
expires at 12:01 a.m. tomorrow, allowing the parties to strike
or lock out workers.  Edward Hamberger, the railroad association’s chief
executive officer, said he welcomed Obama’s action. “Now is not
the time, given so many Americans already are out of work, to
undermine freight rail’s vital role in the nation’s economic
recovery,” he said in an e-mailed statement.  Ira Jaffe, vice president of the National Academy of
Arbitrators and a mediator and arbitrator since 1981, was named
chairman of the review board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  