-- 
Rand Rallies a Second Day on U.S. Jobs Optimism, Europe Debt Speculation

-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 
2011-10-06T16:13:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/rand-rallies-a-second-day-on-u-s-jobs-europe-debt-speculation.html
The rand strengthened for a second
day on bets the  European Central Bank  may reintroduce loans to
banks, boosting appetite for riskier assets.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest economy appreciated as
much as 1.8 percent to 7.8762 per dollar and traded 0.6 percent
up at 7.9705 as of 5:41 p.m. in Johannesburg.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet , fronting a policy
decision for the final time, said the bank will resume covered-
bond purchases and reintroduce year-long loans for lenders as
the sovereign debt crisis threatens to lock money markets. The
ECB will spend 40 billion euros ($53 billion) on covered bonds
starting next month and will offer banks two additional
unlimited loans of 12- and 13-month durations, Trichet said at a
press conference in Berlin today. The bank resisted calls to cut
 interest rates .  “More accommodation from the ECB may have soothed
concerns, especially with regard to the global growth outlook,”
 Michael Keenan , Standard Bank Group Ltd.’s head of currency
research, said by phone from Johannesburg. “The lingering debt
crisis is not going to turn around quickly. We are going to have
this volatility in the dollar-rand as long as there is
uncertainty.”  ECB officials meeting in Berlin left the benchmark rate at
1.5 percent, as predicted by 41 of 52 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. Five forecast a cut to 1.25 percent and six
expected a reduction to 1 percent. With  Greece  on the brink of
default, the ECB is under pressure to step up efforts to stop
contagion by shoring up the euro region’s bond markets and
helping banks weather the storm.  Rates on Hold  “The decision to keep rates on hold is disappointing the
market,”  John Cairns , a currency strategist at Rand Merchant
Bank in Johannesburg, said by phone. “Some people had been
hoping they would cut even though the consensus was for no move
and, combined with a new resolution to deal with the banking
sector stress, bring an end to this mounting crisis.”  South African  government bonds  rallied for a third day,
with the 13.5 percent securities due 2015 adding 15 cents to
122.739 rand, driving the yield down four basis points to 6.803
percent.  The rand has weakened 17 percent this year, the worst
performer of more than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  