-- 
TransCanada Pipeline Foes to Camp Out Before U.S. Hearing

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-10-06T20:03:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/transcanada-oil-pipeline-foes-to-camp-out-before-u-s-hearing-on-keystone.html
Opponents of  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s
Keystone XL pipeline said protesters will sleep outside the site
in Washington of the final public hearing on the project to
ensure they get a seat tomorrow while a rally is held outside.  A hearing last month in  Nebraska , one of six states the
pipeline will cross, drew hundreds of protesters saying the $7
billion project threatens the Ogallala aquifer, which supplies
30 percent of the water used in the U.S. for agriculture. In
Washington, actress Daryl Hannah and  James Hansen , head of
NASA’s Goddard Institute for Space Studies, were among those
arrested at sit-ins in front of the White House in August.  “We are fearful that the industry will actually pay people
to go and stand the line for them, so that they can fill the
hearing with industry spokespeople,” Maura Cowley, a co-
director of the Washington-based  Energy Action Coalition , said
in an interview today. “We’re sleeping on the streets of
 Washington  D.C. tonight to quite literally block the ability of
the industry to impact the hearing.”  TransCanada plans to build the 1,661-mile (2,673-kilometer)
pipeline to transport Canadian oil from  Alberta  to Texas
refineries. The State Department, which is holding the public
hearing tomorrow as part of a review because the project crosses
an international border, has said it expects to make a final
decision on whether to grant approval this year.  The Calgary-based company isn’t paying anyone to pack the
audience, Terry Cunha, a spokesman, said in a telephone
interview today.  Labor Backers  “Everyone is entitled to appear” and “express their
opinion,” Cunha said. “We’re aware that many local labor
groups will be participating to highlight” that the project
“will generate thousands of much-needed jobs across the  United
States .”  Pipeline construction will immediately create 20,000 jobs
and increased investment in Canadian oil sand may add 500,000
jobs in the U.S. in the next two decades,  Jack Gerard , president
of the Washington-based  American Petroleum Institute , said in a
phone interview today.  Development of  Canada ’s oil sands, coupled with increased
production from U.S. fields, would ease U.S. dependence on crude
shipments from the  Middle East  in about 15 years, Gerard also
said.  The State Department didn’t immediately return a phone call
today requesting comment on the planned protests.  Reagan Building  Cowley said 35 to 60 demonstrators may gather tonight at
the Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade Center, where
the hearing will be be held. Cowley said she expects the rally
to draw as many as 1,000 pipeline critics.  Friends of the Earth, a Washington-based environmental
advocacy group, released e-mails last month showing that Paul
Elliott, a former deputy campaign manager for  Hillary Clinton ’s
2008 presidential campaign, set up meetings on behalf of
TransCanada executives. Clinton is now secretary of state. The
e-mails are evidence of the State Department’s pro-industry
bias, Friends of the Earth said on Sept. 22.  TransCanada’s efforts to speak with State Department
officials are similar to the steps taken by environmental
advocates in making their case, Cunha said on Sept. 22.  -- Editors: Steve Geimann, Larry Liebert  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  