-- 
Rdio Offers Free Online Music as Spotify Rivalry Intensifies

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-10-06T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/rdio-offers-free-online-music-as-spotify-rivalry-intensifies.html
Rdio Inc., the online music service
started by a founder of Skype Technologies SA, will offer free
song streaming without advertising as the service battles
Spotify Ltd. and Pandora Media Inc. for customers.  Users of the free service are granted a limited amount of
music each month and access is available only for listening on
computers, San Francisco-based Rdio said in an e-mail statement.
That’s in contrast to Rdio’s subscription plans, which provide
access from smartphones and other mobile devices.  Rdio is offering a free service without commercials as
competition for listeners intensifies with Spotify, Pandora and
Mog Inc. Pandora and Spotify offer advertising-supported free
music services. Rdio aims to convert free users into subscribers
to its unlimited desktop and mobile-music plans that cost $5 to
$10 a month.  “Free music with no ads is very distinct from what
everyone else is doing,” Drew Larner, chief executive officer
of Rdio, said in an interview. “We know when people use Rdio
they get hooked. That’s the bet we are making.”  Rdio, pronounced “Ar-dee-O,” was started in August 2010
by Skype co-founder Janus Friis, and it has a library of 12
million songs.  Free-access users will see a customized meter at the top of
their profile page indicating how much free music they have each
month, Rdio said in the statement.  Not Cheap  The amount of music available will depend on a number of
factors, including monthly use, Lerner said. The free service
won’t come cheap for Rdio, which must compensate record labels
and artists for their music. The free service will be available
for “a significant amount of time,” he said.  “We believe content is valuable, and that ultimately
people should have to pay,” Larner said. “We’ll pay money out
the door to the labels but we think we can get enough
conversions to strike the right balance.”  Rdio users will be able to share music through social
networks including Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc., the company
said. Rdio, Mog and Spotify announced an integration with
Facebook last month that allows the social network’s users to
share, post and talk about music.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  