-- 
FHFA’s Fix for Underwater Mortgage Program Faulted by Lawmakers

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-10-06T21:52:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/refinancing-for-underwater-mortgage-borrowers-faulted-by-house-democrats.html
A plan to let more people refinance
mortgages even if they have no equity in their homes won’t go
far enough to help the nation’s 11 million underwater borrowers,
according to U.S. House Democrats.  Edward J. DeMarco, acting director of the  Federal Housing
Finance Agency , told 17 Democrats at a meeting today that he
will fix the Home Affordable Refinance Program, which lets
borrowers take new loans for up to 125 percent of a home’s
value, according to Representatives Elijah Cummings of Maryland
and Dennis Cardoza of  California , who led the group.  Cummings, who sought the meeting with DeMarco after
criticizing FHFA’s performance, said the changes could help an
estimated 600,000 to 1 million borrowers by raising the maximum
loan-to-value ratio above 125 percent.  “We think he needs to go further,” Cummings, the top
Democrat on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee,
told reporters after the meeting in Washington. Cardoza is co-
chairman of Democrats’ Task Force on Housing Stabilization.  Democrats and Republicans in Congress have faulted DeMarco
and Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  for doing too little
to revive  home prices  and reduce foreclosures in the wake of the
2008 credit crisis. As chief regulator for government-owned
finance firms  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , DeMarco oversees more
than half of the U.S. home-loan market.  President Barack Obama introduced HARP in March 2009 in a
bid to prevent defaults among borrowers who are current on their
payments and have little or no equity. The program was predicted
to help as many as 5 million people. About 840,000 homeowners
have refinanced through the program.  In a written statement, DeMarco said he would deliver
details of his plan by the end of the month and questioned the
numbers cited by Cummings.  “It is premature to estimate how many borrowers will
refinance as a result of these efforts,” DeMarco said. “Our
goal is to provide expanded refinance opportunities for all
HARP-eligible homeowners and for the changes to have a
meaningful impact.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  