-- 
REITs Are Set for More Bond Sales as Record Debt Comes Due: Japan Credit

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 
2011-10-06T06:42:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/reits-are-set-for-more-bond-sales-as-record-debt-comes-due-japan-credit.html
A decade after the industry began,
 Japan ’s real estate investment trusts, the country’s biggest
property buyers, are set to sell more bonds as they face a
record amount of debt coming due next year.  A total of 159 billion yen ($2.1 billion) worth of bonds
will mature next year, the most since Japan established its REIT
market in 2001, according to Mizuho Securities Co. J-REITs so
far this year have registered to sell as much as 1 trillion yen
of bonds in the coming years, exceeding last year’s 800 billion
yen-registration, according to IB Research Inc.  J-REITs are looking to refinance their debt as they seek to
buy new buildings to increase revenue amid record low rents. The
extra yield investors demand to lend to Japanese property firms
instead of the government has fallen back to 25 basis points, or
0.25 percentage point, on Oct. 5, the level prior to the record
March 11 earthquake. The comparable premium for U.S. REITs has
widened to 316 basis points from 166 in the same period,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch bond indexes.  “We plan to sell bonds in March to boost our repayment
capability,” said Masahiko Tajima, director of financial
planning division at Kenedix REIT Management Inc., the asset
manager of  Kenedix Realty Investment Corp. (8972)  in Tokyo. “We aim to
continue to tap into the bond market.”  J-REITs, which represent about 20 percent of Japan’s 45
trillion yen securitized real-estate market, have 600 billion
yen worth of bonds outstanding, according to UBS AG. The REIT
market was created in 2001 to be a financial tool that pools
assets into tradable securities, making it easier to invest.  ‘Attractive Returns’  The 35-member Tokyo Stock Exchange REIT Index fell 0.02
percent at the 3 p.m. close in Tokyo and is down 22 percent this
year.  A total of 179.5 billion yen of bonds were sold in 2010 and
about the same amount will be issued this year, said  Takashi Ishizawa , a Tokyo-based real estate analyst at Mizuho
Securities, declining to forecast the amount for 2012.  Last month,  Global One Real Estate Investment Corp. (8958)  and
 United Urban Investment Corp. (8960)  each registered to sell as much as
100 billion yen of bonds, according to filings with Japan’s
Ministry of Finance.  Nippon Building Fund Inc. (8951)  and Kenedix
Realty also sold debt in the past month.  “Given the maturity schedule, we should see at least the
same amount of issuance next year, if not more,” said Chinatsu
Hani, a credit analyst at UBS Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo.
“Refinancing risks for REITs can be considered to be quite low
at the moment and REIT bonds do provide attractive returns.”
Hani has ‘buy’ rating for all seven REITs she covers.  Nippon Building, Kenedix  Nippon Building Fund’s 10 billion yen of five-year, 0.64
percent bonds was priced to yield 14 basis points more than the
benchmark yen-swap rate on Sept. 9, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The REIT’s five-year 1.23 percent bonds sold in
January 2010 were priced at a spread of 0.46 percentage points
more than the yen-swap rate, the data show.  Kenedix Realty sold 1.5 billion yen of two-year, 1.59
percent bonds at a spread of 120 basis points more than the
benchmark yen-swap rate on Sept. 8, according to Bloomberg data.
That compares with an average 142 basis-point spread over the
Tokyo interbank offered rate, or Tibor, for bank loans due in an
average of 3.4 years for the six months ended April, according
to  the company .  “J-REITs are attractive because with government support,
default risks have gone down significantly and it offers stable
cashflow,” said Hideyuki Shinkai, a  fund manager  at Norinchukin
Trust &　Banking Co. in Tokyo. “J-REIT bonds are attractive
because you can benefit from the spread now.’”  Property Buying  Total commercial real estate investment transactions almost
tripled to 272 billion yen in the third quarter from the
previous quarter, according to DTZ Holdings Plc, a property
brokerage and research firm. J-REITs accounted for 62 percent of
the total volume in the quarter, it said.  Tokyo’s office vacancy rate, a measurement of unoccupied
 office space , has stayed above 8 percent since December 2009,
while rents have declined since August 2008, according to Tokyo-
based Miki Shoji Co., a privately held office brokerage company.
Vacancy rate was at 8.64 percent in September, compared with
8.65 percent a month earlier, a Miki Shoji report today showed.  Declines in Japan’s land prices slowed for the second year,
helped by housing demand before the temblor that was driven by
tax incentives for home buyers amid low  interest rates , a
government report last month showed.  The  Bank of Japan , which has kept the benchmark overnight
rate between zero and 0.1 percent since October 2010, is buying
assets ranging from corporate debt to REITs in an effort to beat
deflation. The central bank has  bought  56.9 billion yen worth of
J-REITs since December.  Government Backing  The yield on Japan’s 10-year government bond was at 0.978
percent in  Tokyo  today, the second lowest after  Switzerland 
among 32 bond markets tracked by Bloomberg. Ten-year debt yields
1.866 percent in  Germany  and 1.899 percent in the U.S. The yen,
the best-performing major currency against the euro and the
dollar this year, reached a post-World War II high of 75.95
versus the dollar in New York trading on Aug. 19. The Japanese
currency was at 76.74 yen per dollar in Tokyo today.  “Thanks to government support, it’s become a lot easier
for J-REITs to raise funds,” Norinchukin Trust’s Shinkai said.
“They shouldn’t have any problems refinancing the bonds that
will mature next year.”  J-REITs have financed their borrowings through a
combination of bank lending and bond sales. The latter only
accounts for 16 percent of their total debt because only those
with an A rating or above have managed to raise money from
investors, according to Roko Izawa, an credit analyst at
 Standard & Poor’s  in Tokyo.  Sponsor Support  One way to identify an attractive investment may be to
compare the yield of J-REIT bonds against its so-called
sponsors, which are responsible for supplying properties for the
trusts and choosing managers, said UBS’s Hani.  While the spread on J-REIT bonds are wider against
benchmarks such as yen swaps, suggesting more risks, those that
are backed by sponsors with stable creditworthiness, will allow
investors to reap higher returns, she said.  The extra yield investors demand to own  Advance Residence
Investment Corp. (3269) ’s 1.27 percent bond due 2016 over the yen-swap
rate was little changed at 81.2 basis points on Oct. 4,
according to Japan Securities Dealers Association prices on
Bloomberg. That compares with 8 basis-point spread on the
similar-maturity 0.51 percent bonds sold by its sponsor  Itochu
Corp. (8001) , a Tokyo-based trading company.  “The existence of sponsors is an important point of
consideration when investing in J-REIT bonds,” Hani said.
“This is because J-REITs’ operations and access to financing
have a lot to do with sponsor support.”  Bucking Trend  J-REIT bond issuances come as sales of Japan’s corporate
bonds this year declined 12 percent to 6.14 trillion yen from
the same period a year ago because no nuclear plant operators
have offered notes since the March 11 earthquake and tsunami
crippled Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
power plant, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index of credit-default swaps fell
6 basis points to 225 basis points today in Tokyo, Deutsche Bank
AG prices show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite. The
contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  