-- 
Repatriation Bill to Tax Overseas Profit at 8.75 Percent

-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c   a n d   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-10-06T21:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/repatriation-bill-would-tax-offshore-profits-at-8-75-percent.html
Corporate repatriation legislation
proposed by Senators Kay Hagan and  John McCain  would let U.S.
businesses bring home offshore profits at an 8.75 percent  tax
rate .  The rate on repatriated profits would drop to 5.25 percent
if a company’s payroll expanded during 2012, according to a
summary of the bill released by Hagan’s office. The current top
corporate rate is 35 percent.  To qualify for the lowest tax rate, a company would have to
increase its payroll by 10 percent as measured by additional
workers or higher employee pay.  “I want to use every tool in the toolbox that’s at our
disposal to help our economy and put people back to work,”
Hagan, a Democrat from  North Carolina , said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television today.  One of Hagan’s corporate constituents,  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) , is a member of the WIN America
Coalition, a group of multinational companies lobbying for a tax
holiday on as much as $1.4 trillion in offshore profits.  WIN America  campaign manager Karen Olick called the Hagan-
McCain proposal “a critical step forward in the effort to jump-
start our economic recovery.”  The Win America group supports the Hagan-McCain initiative
and a House measure sponsored by Representative Kevin Brady, a
Texas Republican, coalition spokeswoman Abigail Gardner said in
a telephone interview.  Brady and House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia
Republican, issued statements praising the Hagan-McCain bill.  Cantor said the measure was “the latest evidence of
bipartisan support for repatriation and I applaud their
effort.”  “I hope that Congress can act quickly so that the
president can sign repatriation legislation that will take
effect this fall,” Brady said in a statement.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said yesterday that the
proposal from McCain, an Arizona Republican, and Hagan won’t
pass the Senate as a stand-alone bill and must be coupled with
infrastructure improvement provisions.  “It won’t just be simply repatriation,” the Nevada
Democrat said. Corporate tax holiday legislation “will be part
of an infrastructure program,” Reid said in an interview. He
declined to provide details.  2004 Tax Holiday  Independent studies showed that when a tax holiday was last
offered, in 2004, the lower tax rate for returning profits
spurred little hiring or domestic investment. Most of the money
was used to buy back stock. Democrats have said they are
concerned that could happen again with a tax holiday.  Under the Hagan-McCain proposal, if a company repatriates
profits and then reduces its staff, it would be required to add
$75,000 to its gross income for every position eliminated.  That differs from Brady’s legislation, which would require
a company to increase its taxable income by $25,000 for every
position cut. Brady’s bill would allow companies one year to
repatriate offshore profits at a tax rate of 5.25 percent.  The congressional Joint Committee on Taxation has estimated
that a tax holiday would cost the Treasury $78.8 billion in
forgone revenue over 10 years if the money was brought back to
the U.S. at a tax rate of 5.25 percent.  Tax attorney H. David Rosenbloom said that adding to a
company’s gross income, as the Hagan-McCain proposal does, may
be friendlier to business than adding to its taxable income
because it provides more chances to whittle down a tax liability
through the use of deductions and credits.  “Generally, the higher up on a tax form the number
appears, the more opportunities there are, the more things that
can occur, said Rosenbloom, a partner at Washington-based  Caplin
& Drysdale Chartered  and director of the international tax
program at  New York  University’s law school.  Rosenbloom said lawmakers were embarrassed following the
2004 repatriation when some companies that participated in the
tax holiday eliminated jobs.  ‘‘This is basically to keep Congress from getting caught
red-faced again,’’ said Rosenbloom.  Chuck Marr , director of federal  tax policy  at the
Washington-based  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities , which
advocates for low-income people, said the Hagan-McCain proposal
contains no incentives to create jobs.  ‘‘The lower rate strikes me as a fig leaf,’’ Marr said. At
8.75 percent, companies ‘‘are getting a very low rate with no
strings. It’s a 75 percent discount.’’  Infrastructure Bank  Senator  Charles Schumer  of New York, the chamber’s No. 3
Democrat, said in June that  Senate Democrats  might be open to
using the short-term revenue provided by a corporate tax holiday
to finance an infrastructure bank.  Using proceeds of a tax holiday to pay for infrastructure
projects would mark a difference between Senate Democrats and
the Obama administration. The administration has said it won’t
consider repatriation outside of a broader tax-code overhaul.  A coalition of businesses, including  United Parcel Service
Inc. (UPS)  and  Boeing Co. (BA) , which are lobbying Congress for a lower
corporate tax rate, did not comment directly on the Hagan-McCain
proposal.  ‘‘We view the repatriation issue as something that should
be considered within the context of a comprehensive reform of
the corporate tax system,” Jim Pinkerton, co-leader of the  RATE
Coalition , said in a statement.  Two other measures that address repatriation are pending in
Congress. Legislation proposed by Representative Shelley Berkley, a Nevada Democrat, would let companies bring home
offshore profits at a 25 percent tax rate, and lower if they
increase their payrolls.  Senator  Mike Lee , a Utah Republican, has proposed an
amendment to a currency bill now being considered that would
lower the tax rate for returning profits to the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 Ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  