-- 
Richemont’s Shanghai Tang to Double Chinese Stores as Luxury Demand Climbs

-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n   a n d   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 
2011-10-06T16:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/richemont-s-shanghai-tang-to-double-chinese-stores-as-luxury-demand-climbs.html
Shanghai Tang , the fashion boutique
brand owned by  Cie Financiere Richemont SA (CFR) , plans to almost
double its stores in  China , its fastest growing market, as
demand for  luxury goods  rises.  “China is the number one luxury market in the world,”
Executive Chairman Raphael le Masne de Chermont said in an
interview in Hong Kong.  Chermont plans to open a flagship Shanghai store next year
to expand sales of China-inspired fashions including silk
kimonos for $470, men’s washed denim shirts with mandarin
collars at $235 and travel umbrellas at $60. The brand also aims
to increase its Chinese shops to 30 within the next two years
from the current 17 as rising wages in the Asian country drives
up demand for luxury goods.  The focus in China is also a recognition that consumers
there are driving demand for fashion brands worldwide, including
 LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , Chermont said yesterday.  “Who do you think will queue for LV in Paris?” he asked
rhetorically. “Not Westerners.”  The proportion of Shanghai Tang customers from mainland
China buying at the boutique’s 42 locations worldwide grew to 18
percent from 2 percent the same time three years ago. Chermont
expects this number to surpass the sales contribution from U.S.
customers -- at about 22 percent -- in the next 18 months.  “Shanghai Tang has done a fantastic job of building brand
equity and has become a genuine luxury brand in Hong Kong and
the West,” said Matt Marsden, director of consumer and retail
research at Daiwa Capital Markets. “This will help give it
credibility and increase the chances of success as the company
expands in China.”  Location, Location  The retailer had its flagship store housed in  Hong Kong ’s
Pedder Building since it was founded by David Tang in 1994 and
had been paying HK$3 million ($385,000) a month in rent. With
Western brands trying to flock to Hong Kong’s Central shopping
district, the city’s real estate market went “totally out of
control,” Chermont said.  Shanghai Tang will be moving to a 20,000 square-foot (1,860
square meter), four-storey building -- to be called Shanghai
Tang Mansion -- about 1,000 feet (320 meters) from its current
store by March next year, Chermont said. He declined to provide
the exact location, explaining that the company will be having a
guessing competition online.  The herald of U.S. retailers Abercrombie and Fitch Co.,
which is taking over Shanghai Tang’s store space, and Gap Inc.
to Central has made the area more mass-market, Chermont said.  The company does not expect the move to affect sales
because it is setting up a pop-up store in Hong Kong’s Pier Four
in November and December this year.  “We have been buying the same way as if we were trading
normally,” Chermont said. The company will be building
Mongolian Gers, or huts, in the harborfront location to coincide
with its Mongolian Christmas collection.  Shanghai Tang plans a Paris store in 2013 and to reopen in
 Tokyo ’s Ginza shopping district in 2014, Chermont said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Khan in Hong Kong at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net 
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale in Singapore at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  