-- 
ECB Holds Rate at 1.5% at Trichet’s Final Meeting

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-10-06T11:47:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/trichet-keeps-interest-rate-unchanged-at-final-meeting-of-eight-year-term.html
The  European Central Bank  resisted
calls to cut  interest rates  at President Jean-Claude Trichet’s
final policy meeting today and may opt to use other tools to
stem the sovereign debt crisis.  ECB officials meeting in Berlin left the benchmark rate at
1.5 percent, as predicted by 41 of 52 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. Five forecast a cut to 1.25 percent and six
expected a reduction to 1 percent. With Greece on the brink of
default, the ECB is under pressure to step up efforts to stop
contagion by shoring up the euro region’s bond markets and
helping banks weather the storm.  “The earliest the ECB would cut rates would be in
December, when it has new economic projections,” Tobias Blattner, a former ECB economist now working for Daiwa
International in  London , said before the decision. “The ECB
needs hold back some firepower and at this meeting will focus on
helping the banking sector with extra liquidity.”  It has fallen to Trichet to lead the battle against the
crisis as lawmakers squabble over their response. His push to
resume government bond purchases in August split the ECB’s 23-
member Governing Council and led to the resignation of chief
economist  Juergen Stark . With Trichet’s eight-year term coming
to an end on Oct. 31, his final decisions in office may be among
the most critical for the future of the euro -- the currency he
has championed as a symbol of European unity.  ‘Colossal Disaster’  “Trichet holds Europe’s destiny in his hands at this point
in time,” said  Julian Callow , chief European economist at
 Barclays Capital  in London, who expected a quarter-point rate
cut today. “It would be a colossal disaster if we had a
prolonged recession in the euro area. Policy makers have to
throw the kitchen sink at it to prevent it.”  The  Bank of England  today unexpectedly expanded its bond-
purchase program to 275 billion pounds ($421 billion) from 200
billion pounds after keeping its key rate at a record low of 0.5
percent.  Trichet holds a press conference at 2:30 p.m. Economists
said he may announce the reintroduction of 12-month loans to
banks, a measure the ECB last used at the end of 2009. A
discussion about reviving the ECB’s covered-bond purchase
program to kick-start term funding markets was also on today’s
agenda, a euro-area central bank official told Bloomberg News on
condition of anonymity.  Italian Downgrade  Trichet, 68, is stepping down just as Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis spills into the financial sector after governments
failed to prevent contagion from  Greece  to the euro area’s core.
Market borrowing costs in Italy and  Spain , the region’s third
and fourth-largest economies, have jumped as investors fret
about their public finances.  Moody’s Investors Service on Oct. 4 cut Italy’s credit
rating for the first time in almost two decades on concern its
economic growth may be too weak to enable the reduction of the
region’s second-largest debt load.  While Trichet has stepped into the breach with ECB bond
purchases, he may baulk at some of the proposals governments are
considering to beef up their rescue fund, the European Financial
Stability Facility.  ‘Not in Favor’  One idea is to grant the EFSF a banking license so that it
can borrow from the ECB to fund purchases of  government bonds .
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann has said that would amount to
printing money to fund distressed euro-area nations, and Trichet
told lawmakers in Brussels on Oct. 4 that he’s “not in favor”
of the plan.  Andrew Bosomworth , executive vice-president and senior
portfolio manager at Pacific Investment Management Company in
Munich, said the ECB should drop its resistance to a Greek debt
restructuring. Trichet has insisted that any private-sector
involvement in a restructuring must be voluntary.  “By failing to cleanse the banking system of unrealized
losses, the ECB is leading  Europe  down the same path as  Japan ’s
lost decade of growth,” Bosomworth said.  Growth slowed to 0.2 percent in the second quarter from 0.8
percent in the first. The ECB last month cut its growth
forecasts to 1.6 percent from 1.9 percent for 2011 and to 1.3
percent from 1.7 percent for 2012.  At the same time, inflation in the 17-nation euro region
unexpectedly accelerated to 3 percent in September, the fastest
pace in three years and well above the ECB’s 2 percent limit.  Trichet told European parliamentarians on Oct. 4 it’s
“sometimes forgotten” that the bank’s primary objective is to
“maintain  price stability .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  