-- 
Trichet Says Not ‘Appropriate’ for ECB to Leverage EFSF

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-10-06T14:18:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/trichet-says-financial-market-tensions-may-slow-expansion.html
European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet comments on monetary policy and the region’s debt
crisis.  He made the remarks at a press conference in Berlin today
after the ECB kept its key interest rate at 1.5 percent.  On leveraging the euro-area’s bailout fund, the European
Financial Stability Facility:  “The Governing Council does not consider it appropriate
that the ECB leverage the EFSF.”  “The governments have the capacity to leverage.”  “We indeed are calling on governments, when they take over
the EFSF, to leverage themselves with the maximum amount of
power to ensure their own financial stability.”  “Our message is very, very strong. It was our duty to pass
messages. We do not substitute for other institutions, to
governments, to parliaments; we are only passing messages.”  “It is our duty to tell what we see.”  On Greece:  “It is a work in progress. We call for all decisions to be
implemented, fully, expeditiously, both by Greece and  Europe  as
a whole.”  On European banks’ capital needs:  “We have not ourselves devised an amount of money that
would be necessary.”  “What counts is that each particular financial institution
is up and running with the appropriate credibility.”  “Do all what is necessary.”  “I have confidence in the EBA to implement what is
necessary.”  On Mario Draghi:  “He knows better than anyone how we work. He took all the
decisions with us. He doesn’t need any advice from anyone. He is
dedicated to our primary mandate as we all are.”  On Juergen Stark’s resignation:  “I have the most esteem and respect for him. He has taken
the decision for personal reasons. I have immense friendship for
Juergen.”  “  Juergen Stark  is devoted to Europe.”  On Ireland:  “The ECB and the euro system have been very, very
forthcoming vis-a-vis Ireland. Ireland did a good job, and the
credibility of Ireland is visibly improving month after month.”  On refinancing operations:  “The Governing Council has decided to conduct two longer-
term refinancing operations, one with a maturity of
approximately 12 months in October and the other with a maturity
of approximately 13 months in December. The operations will be
conducted as fixed-rate tender procedures with full allotment.
The rate in both operations will be fixed at the average rate of
the main refinancing operations over the life of the respective
LTRO, and interest will be paid when each operation matures.
These operations will be conducted in addition to the regular
and special-term refinancing operations, which remain
unaffected.”  “The Governing Council has also decided to continue
conducting its MROs as fixed-rate tender procedures with full
allotment for as long as necessary, and at least until the end
of the sixth maintenance period of 2012 on 10 July 2012. This
procedure will also remain in use for the euro system’s special-
term refinancing operations with a maturity of one maintenance
period, which will continue to be conducted for as long as
needed, and at least until the end of the sixth maintenance
period.”  “The fixed rate in these special-term refinancing
operations will be the same as the MRO rate prevailing at the
time.”  “In addition, the Governing Council has decided to conduct
the three-month LTROs to be allotted on 25 January, 29 February,
28 March, 25 April, 30 May and 27 June 2012 as fixed-rate tender
procedures with full allotment. The rates in these three-month
operations will be fixed at the average rate of the MROs over
the life of the respective LTRO.”  “Furthermore, the Governing Council has decided to launch
a new covered bond purchase program, CBPP2. The program will
have the following modalities: the purchases will be for an
intended amount of 40 billion euros; the purchases will have the
capacity to be conducted in the primary and secondary markets
and will be carried out by means of direct purchases; the
purchases will start in November 2011 and are expected to be
fully implemented by the end of October 2012. Further details on
the modalities of CBPP2 will be announced after the Governing
Council meeting of 3 November 2011.”  “The provision of liquidity and the allotment modes for
refinancing operations will continue to ensure that euro area
banks are not constrained on the liquidity side. All the non-
standard measures taken during the period of acute financial
market tensions are, by construction, temporary in nature.”  On monetary policy:  “Based on its regular economic and monetary analyses, the
Governing Council decided to keep the key ECB  interest rates 
unchanged. Inflation has remained elevated and incoming
information has confirmed our view that inflation is likely to
remain above 2 percent for the months ahead but to decline
thereafter.”  “At the same time, the underlying pace of monetary
expansion continues to be moderate. Ongoing tensions in
financial markets and unfavorable effects on financing
conditions are likely to dampen the pace of economic growth in
the euro area in the second half of this year. The economic
outlook remains subject to particularly high uncertainty and
intensified downside risks. At the same time, short-term
interest rates remain low. It remains essential for monetary
policy to maintain  price stability  over the medium term, thereby
ensuring a firm anchoring of inflation expectations in the euro
area in line with our aim of maintaining inflation rates below,
but close to, 2 percent over the medium term. Such anchoring is
a prerequisite for monetary policy to make its contribution
toward supporting economic growth and job creation in the euro
area.”  On financial markets and the response of governments:  “With financial market uncertainty remaining high, all
governments need to take decisive and frontloaded action to
bolster public confidence in the sustainability of government
finances. All euro area governments need to show their
inflexible determination to fully honor their own individual
sovereign signature as a key element in ensuring financial
stability in the euro area as a whole. Countries under joint EU-
IMF adjustment programs as well as those particularly vulnerable
to financial market conditions need to unambiguously implement
all announced measures for fiscal consolidation and the
strengthening of domestic fiscal frameworks, and they need to
stand ready to take any additional measures that may become
necessary owing to the evolution of their situation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 Jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  