-- 
ECB to Buy Covered Bonds, Offer Longer Loans

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-10-06T14:43:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/trichet-says-ecb-to-buy-covered-bonds.html
European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet, fronting a policy decision for the final time,
said the ECB will resume covered-bond purchases and reintroduce
year-long loans for banks as the sovereign debt crisis threatens
to lock money markets.  The ECB will spend 40 billion euros ($53 billion) on
covered bonds starting next month and will offer banks two
additional unlimited loans of 12 and 13-month durations, Trichet
said at a press conference in Berlin today after policy makers
left the benchmark  interest rate  at 1.5 percent. He also said
the ECB will continue to lend banks as much money as they need
in its regular refinancing operations at least until July 2012.  The ECB is resisting calls to reverse its two rate
increases this year even as the debt crisis threatens to tip
 Europe  back into recession, turning instead to tools it has
previously used in an effort to calm financial markets. The  Bank
of England  today unexpectedly expanded its bond-purchase program
to 275 billion pounds ($421 billion) from 200 billion pounds
after keeping its key rate at a record low of 0.5 percent.  The euro fell after the ECB’s rate decision and traded at
$1.3414 at 4:39 p.m. in Berlin. Two-year German note yields were
15 basis points higher at 0.645 percent.  ‘Pop Star’  With European leaders still hammering out a new plan to
stop the region’s debt crisis, Trichet’s final decisions may be
among the most critical for the future of the euro -- the
currency he has championed as a symbol of European unity.
Trichet will be succeeded by Italy’s  Mario Draghi  at the ECB’s
helm when his eight-year term ends on Oct. 31.  “Central bankers are supposed to be serious and dull and
it was always unlikely that Trichet would turn into a pop star
at his last presser,” said  Christoph Rieger , head of fixed
income strategy at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “The problem
the ECB has is that the more it does, the less the governments
will do. It will cut rates, but not before December.”  Trichet said inflation, which accelerated to 3 percent last
month, is likely to remain above the ECB’s 2 percent limit for
the rest of the year before slowing in 2012. At the same time,
“ongoing tensions in financial markets and unfavorable effects
on financing conditions are likely to dampen the pace of
economic growth in the euro area in the second half of this
year,” he said.  Rates ‘Surprise’  The ECB in September cut its growth forecasts to 1.6
percent from 1.9 percent for 2011 and to 1.3 percent from 1.7
percent for 2012. Euro-area service and manufacturing industries
last month contracted for the first time in more than two years.  “The ECB’s decision to focus on inflation instead of
reversing rate hikes made earlier this year is a surprise, as a
rate cut appears to have been warranted,” said  Chris Williamson , chief economist at Markit in London. It’s “likely
that ECB rate cuts have merely been postponed.”  Trichet said while there are “intensified downside risks”
to the economic outlook, rates “are low.”  “There has been a discussion on the pros and cons of
decreasing rates,” Trichet said. “We have decided by consensus
to maintain rates.”  Trichet spoke as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  held talks
with International Monetary Fund chief  Christine Lagarde  and
other officials in the German capital. Trichet is due to join
the discussions later.  Under Pressure  With  Greece  on the brink of default and investors growing
more concerned about the losses European banks may incur in the
event of a sovereign insolvency, the ECB was under pressure to
increase stimulus. It has already reintroduced an unlimited six-
month loan and said last month it will coordinate with the
 Federal Reserve  to provide euro-area banks with dollars.  It will offer a 12-month loan this month and a 13-month
loan in December, Trichet said. The ECB last offered unlimited
year-long loans at the end of 2009 as the global financial
crisis made banks wary of lending to each other.  The ECB also purchased 60 billion euros of covered bonds in
a one-year program that expired in June last year and was aimed
at freeing up banks’ balance sheets and encouraging lending
during the region’s worst recession since World War II.  The 2.5 trillion-euro market for covered bonds -- assets
backed by mortgages or public-sector loans -- underpins much of
Europe’s real estate lending, which almost ground to a halt in
the wake of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse in
September 2008.  Close Call  “The new purchases will have the capacity to be conducted
in the primary and secondary markets and will be carried out by
means of direct purchases,” Trichet said. They will start in
November and are expected to be fully implemented by the end of
October 2012, he said.  “Banks now have certainty that plenty of liquidity will
available for the banking sector until mid-2012,” said Jens Sondergaard, a senior economist at Nomura Plc in  London . “It’s
a close call whether they will cut policy rates next time and I
think it will depend on the data flow between now and then as
well how the sovereign debt crisis plays out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Frankfurt at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  