-- 
Riksbank’s Oeberg Signals Premature to Shelve Rate Rises

-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 
2011-10-07T07:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/riksbank-s-oeberg-says-crisis-has-cut-potential-gdp-growth-rate.html
Swedish central bank First Deputy
Governor Svante Oeberg signaled it may be premature to abandon a
cycle of interest rate increases as  Europe ’s debt crisis shows
no signs of deteriorating since the bank’s September meeting.  Europe’s leaders are “on a good path” toward solving the
region’s fiscal woes, Oeberg said in an interview in Stockholm
yesterday. “There is so far nothing that indicates” the crisis
will result in a repeat of the 2008-2009 meltdown that followed
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., he said.  Europe’s leaders are struggling to prevent the debt crisis
that started in  Greece  from engulfing some of the euro region’s
largest economies and banks. The European Central Bank yesterday
said it will reintroduce 12-month loans for banks in an effort
to stem the contagion. In  Sweden , the Riksbank in September
abandoned a planned rate rise citing Europe’s deteriorating
recovery prospects, while signaling it may yet raise rates once
more this year.  “It looks pretty turbulent in Europe,” Oeberg said.
“There hasn’t been much improvement, but it hasn’t become much
worse either.”  The krona rose 0.3 percent against the dollar to trade at
6.7969 as of 8:58 a.m. in  Stockholm . Versus the euro, the krona
gained 0.2 percent to 9.1378.  Oeberg, according to the minutes of the bank’s September
meeting, had said policy makers may need to “reconsider the
monetary policy stance” should developments in Europe be “much
worse than assumed.”  Full Capacity  The bank in September lowered its forecast for the rate
path, while signaling it may raise the benchmark this quarter.
It now sees the repo rate averaging 2.1 percent this quarter,
down from 2.3 percent in its July report. The rate will average
2.4 percent in the third quarter next year, and 3 percent in the
same quarter of 2013, it said.  In a speech yesterday, Oeberg said the global financial
crisis has lowered the potential economic growth rate meaning
that resource utilization may be closer to normal than policy
makers assume.  “Resource utilization has a positive relationship with
future inflation,” Oeberg said in the speech. It is “an
indicator of future inflation,” he said.  The bank announces its next interest rate decision on Oct.
27. The U.S. Federal Reserve in August said it will need to keep
its main rate close to zero until the middle of 2013. In Europe,
the ECB’s board considered cutting rates before agreeing to
leave the benchmark at 1.5 percent for a third meeting,
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said.  Sweden’s economy will grow 1.8 percent this year and 2.4
percent in 2012, the central bank estimated last month. Nordea
Bank AB, the largest Nordic lender, predicts Sweden’s economy
will grow just 0.8 percent next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  