-- 
Robin Ventura Is New Manager of Chicago White Sox, Replacing Ozzie Guillen

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-10-06T21:42:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/robin-ventura-is-new-manager-of-chicago-white-sox-replacing-ozzie-guillen.html
Former  Chicago  White Sox third
baseman Robin Ventura was selected as the team’s new manager, 10
days after Ozzie Guillen left to join the  Florida Marlins .  Ventura, who played 10 of his 16 Major League Baseball
seasons with the White Sox, agreed to a multiyear deal to become
the team’s 38th manager, the White Sox said today in an e-mailed
news release. Financial terms weren’t disclosed.  The White Sox this year hired Ventura as a special adviser
to Buddy Bell, the team’s director of player development.  “When I rejoined the White Sox this June, I said this was
my baseball home and that part of me never left the White Sox
organization,” Ventura said in a statement. “My family and I
are thrilled to be returning to Chicago.”  It’s the first major league managerial job for 44-year-old
Ventura, a career .267 hitter with 294 home runs and 1,182 runs
batted in. Ventura, whose major league career spanned 1989-2004,
also played three seasons with the  New York Mets  and had stints
with the  New York Yankees  and  Los Angeles Dodgers .  After playing college baseball at Oklahoma State
University, Ventura was drafted 10th overall by the White Sox in
1988. His 58-game college hitting streak is still a National
Collegiate Athletic Association Division I record.  “His baseball knowledge and expertise, his
professionalism, his familiarity with the White Sox and Chicago
and his outstanding character make him absolutely the right
person to lead our clubhouse and this organization into the
seasons ahead,” said White Sox General Manager Ken Williams.  The franchise went 79-83 this season, finishing in third
place in the American League Central division, 16 games behind
the  Detroit Tigers .  Guillen was hired as the Marlins’ manager on Sept. 28, two
days after being released by the White Sox, whom he guided to a
678-617 record in eight seasons, including a World Series title
in 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 