-- 
Romney, Perry Each Seek Momentum as Next Republican Debate Looms

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-10-06T04:01:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/romney-perry-each-seek-momentum-as-next-republican-debate-looms.html
Mitt Romney and  Rick Perry  are
grappling for momentum in the Republican presidential race,
competing for donors, supporters and attention as the field of
candidates has solidified and they prepare for a debate next
week focused on the  U.S. economy .  Both received boosts this week.  Perry’s campaign said yesterday that the Texas governor
raised more than $17 million through Sept. 30, a total likely to
exceed his rivals during the year’s third quarter. He also
stands to benefit from the announcement yesterday by former
Alaska Governor Sarah Palin that she won’t enter the race,
giving Perry a chance to compete for uncommitted social and
fiscal conservatives who were awaiting her decision.  Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, picked up some
key endorsements after New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  said
on Oct. 4 he wouldn’t seek the Republican nomination.  “Romney is clearly the last man standing,” said Georgette Mosbacher, a prominent Republican fundraiser who signed up to
back him after previously supporting Christie. “It’s time for
us to coalesce around our candidate.”  Roughly a dozen major Republican donors, who had been
uncommitted, are “revving up” to help Romney, said Mosbacher,
the chief executive officer of New York-based Borghese, a global
cosmetics company.  No ‘Surprises’  Referring to his failed bid for the 2008 nomination and his
lengthy preparation for this race, she said, “We know who
Romney is; there’s not going to be any surprises.”  The decisions by Palin and Christie also probably remove any
surprises about the makeup of the Republican race, meaning next
year’s challenger to President  Barack Obama  almost certainly
will emerge from the current contenders.  “Christie’s decision probably helps Romney because his
support will now gravitate to him, and conversely Palin’s
decision will probably help Perry because Palin’s constituency
is more likely to go his way,” said John Pitney, a political
scientist at Claremont McKenna College in Claremont,  California .  Perry, 61, is trying to rebound from recent political
stumbles that cost him the frontrunner status he had quickly
achieved in polls of the Republican race after declaring his
candidacy on Aug. 13. His third-quarter fundraising may help
restore some confidence among donors and party activists as he
seeks to establish himself as the main alternative to Romney.  Early in Season  “This early in the primary season, with voters months away
from heading to polls or caucuses in any state, perception is
everything,” said  Rogan Kersh , associate dean at  New York 
University’s Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service.
Strong fundraising usually improves attitudes toward a
candidate, he said.  Perry, who reported $15 million in the bank as of Sept. 30,
has been on the defensive over his support of legislation
providing in-state tuition to the children of undocumented
immigrants.  Romney, 64, could report up to $14 million in the third
quarter, according to a person close to the campaign who spoke
on condition of anonymity because the campaign hasn’t authorized
disclosure of figures. He raised $18.3 million -- more than any
other Republican -- in the year’s second quarter.  Perry will face a challenge maintaining his fundraising
momentum following his initial report. It is harder for
candidates to sustain donation rates after their most
enthusiastic supporters have given and they are forced to find
new donors. Perry reported that 49 percent of his donors came
from his home state. He also received donations from the 49
other states, the  District of Columbia ,  Puerto Rico  and  Guam .  Fundraising Strength  Republicans will have to weigh whether Perry’s fundraising
strength and appeal to the Tea Party, a political movement whose
goals include reducing federal  government spending , taxes and
budget deficits, outweigh flaws that have emerged in the early
stages of his presidential bid.  “There’s slow-and-steady  Mitt Romney , and then there are
all the other candidates who keep going up and down,” said
Republican strategist  Alex Castellanos , who isn’t affiliated
with any of the campaigns. “Sometimes last-man-standing is a
good strategy. Mitt Romney may just be able to outlast everyone
else.”  Perry has dropped in opinion polls after drawing attacks
from his Republican opponents, many of whom spotlighted the
illegal immigration issue. A  Washington  Post-ABC News survey of
Republicans and Republican-leaning independents taken Sept. 29
through Oct. 2 gave Perry 16 percent -- a 13 percentage point
decline since early September -- and in a tie with former
Godfather’s Pizza Chief Executive Officer Herman Cain. Romney
led the Republican field with 25 percent.  Similar Poll  Perry had led a similar poll last month with 29 percent to
Romney’s 25 percent.  A  CBS News poll  also showed Perry dropping, Cain rising and
Romney static. Romney and Cain were tied in the survey of
Republican primary voters, conducted Sept. 28 through Oct. 2, at
17 percent, while Perry was third with 12 percent.  In a similar poll two weeks ago, Perry led with 23 percent,
while Romney had 16 percent support and Cain 5 percent.  Perry inflicted a political wound on himself among
Republicans when he said at a Sept. 22 debate that those who
opposed the in-state tuition rates for children of illegal
immigrants in  Texas  that he has supported as governor don’t
“have a heart.” Last week, while standing by the program, he
said he “probably chose a poor word to explain that.”  Oct. 11 Debate  Romney and Perry are among the eight major Republican
presidential candidates scheduled to participate in an Oct. 11
debate sponsored by Bloomberg News and the Washington Post.  The debate, to be held at  Dartmouth College  in Hanover,  New
Hampshire , is the first of the 2012 campaign to concern solely
the economy. It will be broadcast on Bloomberg Television,
Bloomberg Radio, WBIN-TV in New Hampshire and on Bloomberg.com
and WashingtonPost.com.  The decision by Christie, 49, to not enter the race gives
Romney a fresh chance to consolidate support from traditional
Republican leaders and activists who haven’t rallied around him.  Senator Roy Blunt, a Missouri Republican who is leading
Romney’s efforts to win support among the party’s lawmakers in
Washington, said he doesn’t detect a groundswell for an
alternative to the former Massachusetts governor.  “It’s late and I think the field is set,” Blunt said in
an interview.  He called Romney the “most likely person” to be able to
beat Obama in next year’s election.  Wall Street  Ties  Christie’s stature and ties to Wall Street kept a group of
major New York and New Jersey fundraisers on the sidelines as
they awaited his decision.  “I think people are going to start going Romney’s way,”
said John Catsimatidis, a Republican supermarket executive who
is backing Romney now that Christie has made his decision.  “You can’t pick somebody that’s going to make yourself 100
percent happy on the conservative end because then he’ll only
get 47 percent against President Obama,” he said. “But if you
pick someone that will make you get 75 percent happy, then
you’ll have someone that can beat President Obama. Romney falls
into that category. He’s capable of winning.”  Romney, as part of a campaign trip yesterday to  Florida ,
announced he had won the endorsements of three leading
Republican state lawmakers there.  Disciplined Campaign  “They’ve run a very disciplined campaign,” said incoming
Florida House Speaker Will Weatherford, who endorsed Romney
yesterday. “They knew there’d be ups and downs for other
candidates, but they also recognized that they needed to stay
focused on their platform and their agenda and they’ve done that
very successfully.”  U.S. Representative Ron Paul of Texas, another of the
Republican presidential candidates, said at a National Press
Club luncheon in Washington yesterday that the interest in
Christie demonstrated a yearning among Republican voters for
additional choices.  “It represents the failure of the system and what is
offered up,” he said. “They keep looking for others.”  Paul, 75, said he remains optimistic about his chances for
the nomination. He reported raising more than $8 million during
the quarter, from what he said were nearly five times as many
donors as Perry. He ranked fourth in the Washington Post-ABC
News poll at 11 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
John McCormick in  Chicago  at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  