-- 
Tropical Storms Jova and Irwin May Threaten Mexico Next Week

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-10-06T21:17:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/tropical-storms-jova-and-irwin-may-threaten-mexico-next-week.html
Tropical Storm Jova joined Irwin in
the Pacific, threatening landfall on  Mexico ’s western coast
early next week, while Hurricane Philippe moved away from land
in the Atlantic, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said.  Jova, the second Pacific storm to form today, has top winds
of 40 miles (64 kilometers) per hour and is about 495 miles
south-southwest of Manzanillo, moving northwest at 10 mph, the
center said  in an advisory  at 5 p.m. East Coast time. The storm
is forecast to become a Category 2 hurricane with 100 mph winds
and strike near Puerto Vallarta on Oct. 10-11.  Tropical Storm Irwin, which developed earlier today, lies
about 701 miles west of Jova with winds of 60 mph, the center
said. It is moving west-northwest at 8 mph.  “The two cyclones are comparable in size,” according to a
hurricane center forecast analysis. “Some interaction is likely
for the next two days, which would bring the two cyclones closer
to each other and also slow down the forward speed of both
systems.”  Irwin and Jova are expected to turn back  toward Mexico  in
the coming week, although forecasters said the tracks may change
as the systems get closer to land. Track errors of 175 to 225
miles are common in the eastern Pacific for forecasts made four
to five days ahead.  In the Atlantic, Philippe, a Category 1 hurricane on the
five-step Saffir-Simpson scale,  strengthened slightly  as it
moves to the northeast at 13 mph. Philippe’s top winds have
grown to 85 mph from 80 mph earlier and it is located 425 miles
southeast of  Bermuda .  Philippe is expected to continue on a northerly course into
the Atlantic between  Europe  and  North America .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  