-- 
RTL CEO Zeiler Tells Medvedev He Is Happy With Russia Investment

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-10-06T17:14:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/rtl-ceo-zeiler-tells-medvedev-he-is-happy-with-russia-investment.html
RTL Group Chief Executive Officer
Gerhard Zeiler told President Dmitry Medvedev he is happy with
the investment  Europe ’s biggest television company made in
Russia.  “When we arrived in 1995, we had mixed feelings,” Zeiler
told Medvedev at a meeting in the Kremlin, also attended by
Modern Times Group CEO Hans-Holger Albrecht. “Today, I can say
we are very happy with our decision to invest and we are very,
very happy with our partner.”  Zeiler, whose RTL holds a 7.5 percent stake in ZAO National
Media Group, was part of a meeting organized by Medvedev’s
administration, along with fellow shareholders, billionaires
Alexei Mordashov and Yuriy Kovalchuk.  Russia’s media market faces changes as President Medvedev
pushes to digitalize television in the country of more than 142
million people, Zeiler said. There were no discussions about
increasing RTL’s stake in National Media, he said, adding that
the Luxembourg-based division of Bertelsmann AG wants to remain
involved with its Russian affiliate.  RTL in June agreed to swap its 30 percent shareholding in
Russian channel Ren TV for of 7.5 percent in National Media
Group. The media group also holds stakes in Channel One, the
country’s main free-to-air television channel available to
almost 99 percent of Russians, and Izvestia national newspaper.  ‘Sitting Back’  “We aren’t the driver of the car here in  Russia  but we are
very happy sitting in the back of the car, and watching Mr.
Kovalchuk steer the car and sometimes giving our advice,”
Zeiler said during the meeting with Medvedev.  National Media Group was set up in 2008 after merging media
assets belonging to Kovaluchuk’s Bank Rossiya, steel billionaire
Alexei Mordashov, oil producer OAO Surgutneftegaz and insurance
company Sogaz.  Kovalchuk, an associate of Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin 
who is seeking to return to the presidency next year, thanked
Medvedev for avoiding state interference when the group was
formed.  “We were apprehensive there would be pressure from the
state as to what should be done and how,” Kovalchuk said. “It
simply would have been destructive for business. I can say that
there was no interference from the state.”  Bank Rossiya holds 18.9 percent in the National Media
Group, Surgutneftegaz and Mordashov’s Severgroup each have 26.2
percent, according to information provided by the company.  Forbes magazine puts Mordashov’s wealth at $18.5 billion
and Kovalchuk’s wealth at $1.5 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  