-- 
Rubber Gains for Third Day as U.S. Data Improve Demand Outlook

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n   a n d   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 
2011-10-06T07:23:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/rubber-gains-for-third-day-as-u-s-data-improve-demand-outlook.html
Rubber advanced for a third day as
better-than-expected U.S. economic data buoyed the outlook for
demand, and  Malaysia  supported  Thailand ’s move to set a minimum
price for the commodity used in tires.  March-delivery rubber climbed as much as 1.4 percent to
308.7 yen per kilogram ($4,020 a metric ton) before settling at
308.2 yen on the  Tokyo  Commodity Exchange.  U.S. companies added 91,000 workers after an 89,000 gain in
August, ADP Employer Services said yesterday. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey called for the addition of 75,000.
The  Institute for Supply Management ’s non-manufacturing index
fell to 53 from 53.3 in August, still higher than the median
forecast of 75 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Stocks rallied.  “Better-than-expected U.S. jobs data triggered gains in
equities and rubber,” Gu Jiong, an analyst at Yutaka Shoji Co.
Ltd., said by phone from Tokyo. So-called resistance, or
clusters of sell orders, is at 310 yen, he said.  The U.S. is the fourth-largest consumer of natural rubber
after China, the European Union and  India , according to the
Singapore-based International Rubber Study Group.  Rubber also rebounded from last quarter’s 15 percent loss
as Thailand, the largest producer and exporter, set a minimum
price for the commodity at 120 baht ($3.86) a kilogram yesterday.  Malaysia, Indonesia and  Vietnam  agree on the need for a
benchmark price as fellow members of the International
Tripartite Rubber Council, Bernard Dompok, the Malaysian
minister for plantation industries and commodities, told
reporters in  Kuala Lumpur  today.  Old Trees  Thailand is also considering cutting down aging trees to
counter the price slump. The measures will help to put a floor
under prices, with support at 300 yen, Gu at Yutaka Shoji said.  The Thai cash price increased to 127.25 baht ($4.09) a
kilogram today from 126.25 baht yesterday, the Rubber Research
Institute of Thailand said on its website.  Heavy rain since July 25 has caused flooding in 59 of the
country’s 77 provinces, and 28 of them remain submerged, the
Department of Disaster Prevention and Mitigation said today.
Excessive rains disrupt tapping, leading to lower latex output.  Toyo Tire & Rubber Co.,  Japan ’s fourth-biggest tire maker,
expects profit to rise at least 30 percent next year on
production expansion in  China  and the U.S. as it rebounds from
the effects of Japan’s March 11 disaster, President Kenji Nakakura said in an interview.  The company, which supplies Toyota Motor Corp. and
Volkswagen’s Audi AG,  forecasts  profit will fall 37 percent to
7.7 billion yen this year after Japan’s record earthquake
disrupted auto-parts supply chains and the yen hovers at a
postwar high against the dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net ;
Aya Takada at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  