-- 
Dodd-Frank, Cybersecurity, Tax Holiday, Finra: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-10-06T12:19:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/rule-roadmap-cybersecurity-corporate-tax-holiday-compliance.html
U.S. regulators should publish a
schedule for when all Dodd-Frank Act rules will take effect to
smooth a “haphazard implementation process” that is hurting
the economy by perpetuating uncertainty, Representative  Scott
Garrett  said in a letter.  Garrett, a New Jersey Republican, made the comments in a
letter to Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  that was
released yesterday.  A member of the  House Financial Services Committee , Garrett
said the  Financial Stability Oversight Council  led by Geithner
should publish an implementation schedule by Nov. 15 to address
“grave concerns about the lack of direction that U.S. financial
regulators have provided thus far.”  Geithner is scheduled to testify today before the Financial
Services Committee and the  Senate Banking Committee  to discuss
the first annual report from FSOC, a 10-member council of
regulators created by Dodd-Frank, the financial-rules overhaul
enacted last year.  Compliance Policy  House Republicans Cybersecurity Plan Calls for Limited Rules  Congress should seek to strengthen computer defenses at
U.S. power, water and telecommunications companies with
voluntary standards and limited regulation, according to a House
Republican task force on cybersecurity.  Lawmakers also should authorize an organization outside the
government to act as a clearinghouse of information on cyber
attacks, to allow U.S. agencies and companies that operate the
nation’s critical infrastructure to share real-time data about
hacker threats, the task force said in a report released
yesterday.  The report came on the same day as a hacker threat against
the New York Stock Exchange. Anonymous, a group of self-styled
hacker-activists behind attacks on corporate and government
websites, vowed to support the Occupy Wall Street protests by
erasing the New York Stock Exchange “from the Internet” on
Oct. 10.  The group posted a video message on YouTube declaring war
on the world’s largest stock exchange in retaliation for the
mass arrests of Wall Street protesters. The two-minute message
didn’t elaborate on the threat or whether it referred only to an
attack on the NYSE website, which would have no effect on
trading.  Richard Adamonis , a spokesman for  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , which
operates the exchange, said the company doesn’t comment on
rumors or security matters.  For more, click here and click here.  Repatriation Tax Holiday to Be Proposed by Hagan, McCain  U.S. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said a corporate-
profit repatriation proposal by Senators Kay Hagan and  John
McCain  won’t pass the Senate as a stand-alone bill and needs to
be coupled with infrastructure improvement efforts.  McCain and Hagan said they would introduce the legislation
today.  New York Senator  Charles Schumer , the chamber’s No. 3
Democrat, said in June that Senate Democrats might be open to
using the short-term revenue provided by a corporate tax holiday
to finance an infrastructure bank.  Hagan, a Democrat from North Carolina, and McCain, an
Arizona Republican, said yesterday they will sponsor a bill to
let U.S. companies bring home as much as $1.4 trillion of
overseas profits at a reduced tax rate.  Large multinational companies including  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  have been lobbying Congress to let
them return overseas profits to the U.S. at a lower rate. The
companies say the infusion of cash would boost the economy and
lead to increased employment. Corporate profits now are taxed at
a top rate of 35 percent.  Linking repatriation to infrastructure would address a
concern of congressional Democrats that the tax break should
promote job creation.  Companies advocating repatriation have mounted an intensive
lobbying campaign.  For more, click here.  Finra Backs Bachus on Regulating Advisers, Luparello Says  Legislation authorizing one or more self-regulatory
organizations to oversee registered investment advisers has been
endorsed by an official of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Stephen Luparello, vice chairman of the Finra, described
the draft bill circulated by Representative Spencer Bachus, an
Alabama Republican, as “directionally, exactly what we want.”  He made the remarks at a  Financial Services Institute Inc. 
conference in Washington yesterday.  Much of the costs of assuming oversight of investment
advisers as a self regulator are already embedded in Finra’s
infrastructure, according to Luparello, who oversees regulatory
operations for Finra, which is funded by the brokers it
regulates.  Congress is considering whether to name a self regulator
for registered investment advisers. Richard Ketchum, chairman
and chief executive officer of Finra, told a subcommittee of the
 House Financial Services Committee  Sept. 13 that his group was
“uniquely positioned” to handle the job.  Bachus, who leads the full committee, proposed draft
legislation last month that would charge one or more self-
regulatory groups, under the authority of the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission, with overseeing registered investment
advisers. The proposal didn’t specify whether the self regulator
should be Finra or another group.  For more, click here.  House Panel Backs Bill Boosting Nonpublic-Firm Shareholder Limit  A U.S. House panel approved measures that would let closely
held firms attract more investors without going public as part
of a slate of Republican-backed legislation aimed at spurring
economic growth.  The House  Financial Services Capital Markets  subcommittee
gave bipartisan support yesterday to a bill that would increase
to 1,000 from 500 the number of shareholders a nonpublic company
can have without an initial public offering.  House Republicans are pushing legislation to help startups
and smaller firms raise money amid regulatory hurdles and
tighter lending standards following the 2008 credit crisis.
Shares of such companies are being traded on secondary markets
that have emerged since the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and last
year’s Dodd-Frank Act increased the cost of going public.  The panel also approved a measure that would exempt
companies with a public float, or shares available to investors,
of as much as $350 million from the audit requirement in
Sarbanes-Oxley. Companies with less than $75 million are
currently exempt from the requirement.  Separately, the panel approved by voice vote a bill that
would boost the Securities and Exchange Commission threshold to
2,000 for banks. That bill, known as H.R. 1965, would broaden
private-bank shareholder limits and require the SEC to undertake
a study of private-firm shareholders that would include a cost-
benefit analysis of shareholder registration thresholds.  Volcker Rule Draft Puts Short-Term Trades Under More Scrutiny  U.S. banks seeking to gain from or hedge against short-term
price movements in securities and derivatives markets would face
restrictions under a proprietary-trading ban, according to a
draft of the so-called Volcker rule.  The 205-page document, dated Sept. 30 and obtained
yesterday by Bloomberg News, is the latest version of the rule
to emerge as it’s being written by four federal banking
regulators and is scheduled to be released on Oct. 11 by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  The financial regulators didn’t define short-term in the
draft, writing that “it is often difficult to clearly identify
the purpose for which a position is acquired or taken and
whether that purpose is short-term in nature.”  The Volcker rule, which is named for its original champion,
former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , is intended to
reduce the chance that banks will make risky investments with
their own capital that put their deposits at risk. The provision
was part of the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul enacted last year,
and policy makers are drafting regulations to enforce it.  Banks including JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  have shut or made plans to spin off
stand-alone proprietary-trading groups to prepare for the rule.  Foreign banks would be covered by the rule if they have
U.S.-based staff involved in the restricted trades, according to
the draft.  For more, click here.  Courts  Massachusetts Attorney General Says She May Sue Big Banks  Massachusetts Attorney General  Martha Coakley  said she may
sue major banks after she “lost confidence” that they will
reach an agreement that adequately resolves foreclosure
disputes.  Attorneys general from all 50 states last year announced
they would probe the foreclosure practices of banks following
reports of faulty documents being used to seize homes. Since
then, a group of attorneys general and federal officials have
been negotiating a settlement with the five largest mortgage
servicers in the U.S. --  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , JPMorgan Chase &
Co.,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and Ally Financial Inc.  Coakley said in a statement yesterday that she has lost
confidence the banks “will bring to the table an agreement that
properly holds them accountable for wrongful foreclosures.” Her
office has therefore begun preparing for litigation, which would
include claims over the filing of false or misleading documents,
she said.  Coakley didn’t disclose when or which banks would be sued.  ‘Lord’ Davenport, Five Others Convicted in Fraud, SFO Says  Six men were convicted over a 4 million-pound ($6.2
million) fraud in which a London company charged fees for
commercial loans it never provided.  Edward Davenport, 45, who described himself as an English
Lord while having no official title, was the ringmaster of a
“sophisticated criminal enterprise,” the  U.K. Serious Fraud
Office  said in an e-mailed statement.  Davenport and Peter Riley, 64, directors of the company
Gresham Ltd., were sentenced to seven years in prison last month
and banned from acting as company directors for 10 years.
Another director, Borge Andersen, was sentenced to three years.
David McHugh, Richard Stephens and David Horsfall, who posed as
advisers to Gresham, are to be sentenced Nov. 10.  Gresham claimed to offer commercial funding or venture
capital for construction projects in the U.K., Europe, the U.S.,
India and the Caribbean. It took millions in “deposits” or
“verification” fees, the SFO said. None of the victims
received any money.  Davenport said he was “shocked and dismayed” at his
sentence, according to an e-mailed statement from his lawyer. He
has filed an appeal at London’s High Court and wants to clear
his name, he said in the statement.  Lone Star Found Guilty of Stock Manipulation by Seoul Court  Lone Star Funds was found guilty of stock-price
manipulation and the former head of its South Korean unit was
jailed after a five-year legal dispute that stalled the U.S.
buyout fund’s efforts to sell  Korea Exchange Bank. (004940)   Paul Yoo was sentenced to three years in prison by Judge
Cho Kyung Ran today. Korea Exchange Bank was found not guilty,
Cho said after presiding over a retrial ordered by the Supreme
Court this year following their acquittal in June 2008.  The verdict may remove the final barrier to Lone Star’s
sale of Korea Exchange to  Hana Financial Group Inc. (086790) , after the
litigation delayed its plan to offload the 51 percent stake and
derailed two earlier attempts. A public backlash over Lone
Star’s legal woes and profit on its eight-year investment may
deter foreign takeovers, impeding the government’s plans to sell
state assets such as Woori Finance Holdings Co.  Lone Star was fined 25 billion won ($21 million) by the
court.  Korea Exchange Bank spokesman Lee Sun Hwan said the company
respects the court’s decision to clear it of the manipulation
charge. He declined to comment on the FSC’s remark that it may
order Lone Star to sell its stake.  Jed Repko, a spokesman for Lone Star in New York, didn’t
immediately respond to phone calls or reply to an e-mail sent
after regular office hours.  For more, click here.  Soros Loses Case Against French Insider-Trading Conviction  Billionaire investor George Soros lost a challenge to his
2002 insider-trading conviction, with the  European Court of
Human Rights  saying French market regulations were clear enough
to hold him responsible.  France didn’t violate Soros’s rights in punishing him
criminally for trading on inside information about  Societe
Generale (GLE)  SA in spite of the market regulator’s conclusion that
its rules were unclear, the Strasbourg, France-based court said.  Soros, 81, was convicted in 2002 of insider trading and
ordered to repay 2.2 million euros ($2.9 million) he’d made from
the share purchase and subsequent sale after a Paris court found
he’d acted with the knowledge that the bank might be a takeover
target. While prosecutors filed criminal charges, French stock
market regulators didn’t pursue Soros, saying insider-trading
laws were too vague to determine whether he’d broken them.  “It is inconceivable to expect that the citizen has a
better understanding of the law than the authority in charge”
of market regulation, Ron Soffer, Soros’s lawyer, said. “The
opinion of the regulatory authority is an irrebuttable
presumption as to the lack of clarity of the law.”  Soros will appeal the four-to-three ruling to the court’s
Grand Chamber, Soffer said.  Interviews/Speeches  Czech Government Opposes Financial Transaction Tax, Necas Says  The Czech government opposes introduction of a financial
transaction tax and issuance of joint euro-area bonds, Prime
Minister Petr Necas said.  Necas was speaking to reporters yesterday after the weekly
Cabinet meeting in Prague.  ECB’s Liikanen Says It’s Important to Focus on Systemic Risks  European Central Bank Governing Council member Erkki
Liikanen said policy makers should learn from past experience
and focus on systemic risk.  He made the remarks at a conference in Kiel, Germany,
yesterday.  “This big financial crisis follows the same sequence of
events” as previous crises, including high leverage, bursting
bubbles, a financial crisis, recession and sovereign debt
crises, Liikanen said.  “It is extremely important that we never neglect history
the way we did a few years ago. If the financial sector grows
out of proportion it’s always associated with risks,” Liikanen
added.  IASB Chief Urges U.S. to Adopt International Accounting Rules  U.S. regulators should adopt international accounting
rules, known as IFRS, to improve transparency, the chairman of
the  International Accounting Standards Board  said yesterday.  Adopting the standards would give U.S. companies “the same
financial reporting language for both internal management
reporting and external financial reporting on a worldwide
consolidated basis,” Hans Hoogervorst, IASB chairman, said in a
speech in Boston.  Hoogervorst this week criticized U.S. accounting rules that
differ from standards set by the IASB during a hearing in the
 European Parliament . Banks don’t need to show all their
derivatives exposure on their balance sheet under U.S. rules,
known as Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or GAAP, he
said.  Comings and Goings  JPMorgan Derivatives-Risk Assessor Pugachevsky Joins Quantifi  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Dmitry Pugachevsky, who oversaw
analysis of some of the bank’s derivatives risks, joined
Quantifi Inc. to run the research division.  Pugachevsky was the head of counterparty credit modeling at
New York-based JPMorgan. Before that, he was the global head of
credit analytics at Bear Stearns Cos.  Changes to derivatives regulation in the U.S. and new
international capital rules for banks “have brought a
heightened focus on counterparty risk and highlight the need for
firms to adopt active counterparty risk-management systems,”
Pugachevsky said in a statement released by Summit, New Jersey-
based Quantifi yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  