-- 
Putin May Weaken Gazprom’s Natural-Gas Export Grip in Future

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-10-06T17:03:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/russia-may-liberalize-gas-export-monopoly-in-future-putin-says.html
Russia  “doesn’t exclude” allowing
natural-gas producers other than OAO Gazprom, the state export
monopoly, to ship the fuel abroad eventually after European
Union investigations into possible antitrust violations.  “European colleagues are pushing us to do so with unending
searches at Gazprom’s companies,” Russian Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin  said, referring to raids by EU regulators last
month on gas companies across the continent.  Russia has no plans to end Gazprom’s legally enshrined hold
on exports at present, Putin said at an investment conference
today in Moscow. While such a move now might boost exports, it
would also damp prices, he said.  Gazprom gained a legal monopoly on exports in 2006 as the
government sought to prevent domestic competition from
undermining prices and oil producers raised output of the
cleaner-burning fuel. Gazprom, the world’s biggest gas producer,
has been trying to diversify away from  Europe , where it supplies
25 percent of the market’s gas, with routes to  Asia  and the
Pacific.  “The biggest beneficiary of this would likely be Novatek,
which seems already to be working on establishing a client base
abroad,” Pavel Sorokin, an oil and gas analyst at  Alfa Bank ,
said by phone from Moscow. “If Russia moves in the direction of
liberalization, this might help Novatek gain market shares.”  Yamal LNG Exports  OAO Novatek, Russia’s second-largest gas producer, supplies
natural gas only in the domestic market. It has gained support
from the government and Gazprom for potential exports of
liquefied natural gas from the Yamal LNG project with Total SA,
which is slated to start in 2016. Novatek will pay Gazprom to
ship the fuel abroad.  Exxon Mobil Corp., which has the right to export gas under
a production sharing agreement with the government, hasn’t yet
developed supplies to  China  as initially planned, while Gazprom
pushes the Irving, Texas-based explorer to sell gas from the
Sakhalin-1 project for domestic use.  OAO Rosneft could add as much as 10 billion barrels of oil
equivalent in reserves if it had better access to gas pipelines
and customers,  Peter O’Brien , a former vice president at the
state-controlled oil producer, said on Feb 2.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  