-- 
Russia Says U.S. Approach to NATO Missile Defense System Is ‘Unacceptable’

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-10-06T06:59:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/russia-says-u-s-approach-to-nato-missile-defense-system-is-unacceptable.html
Russia  is alarmed at the U.S.
decision to station four ships at a base on Spain’s Atlantic
coast as part of an American-led NATO missile defense system,
the Foreign Ministry said.  The U.S. approach to developing its capability against
missile threats in  Europe  is “unacceptable,” the ministry said
in a  statement  published on its website today.  Russia “cannot but be alarmed because already in the first
phase it’s leading to a substantial buildup of the U.S. anti-
missile capability in Europe,” the ministry said.  Spain is the fourth European nation agreeing to participate
directly in the Europe-wide missile defense program, intended to
protect against attacks from adversaries such as  Iran . President
 Barack Obama  pursued U.S. plans for the system in 2009, and the
administration has obtained agreements with Poland, Romania and
Turkey to host elements of the shield.  The Navy cruisers, equipped with Aegis radar, will operate
from the Rota naval base in southwestern Spain, a facility built
by the U.S. military in the 1950s and used by both countries,
giving ready access to the Mediterranean in potential clashes.  Russia has warned the U.S.-led plan may provoke a new arms
race and upset a strategic balance in the region by threatening
its nuclear deterrent capability.  President  Dmitry Medvedev  on May 18 signaled that Russia
may quit a nuclear-arms treaty with the U.S. if the two sides
can’t reach an agreement on missile defense, provoking a return
to Cold War levels of distrust between the countries. Russia
wants guarantees that it won’t be targeted by the proposed
missile shield.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  