-- 
Russia’s Foreign Reserves Tumble $9.2 Billion, Most Since May

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   T o r r e y   C l a r k
-- 
2011-10-06T09:36:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/russian-international-reserves-plunge-by-9-2-billion-in-week.html
Russia ’s international gold and
currency reserves declined for a fourth week, plunging $9.2
billion, the most since May, as Bank Rossii bought rubles,
stepping up its defense of the currency.  The country’s reserves tumbled to a four-month low of
$516.8 billion in the week to Sept. 30, the central bank said on
its website today. The four-week decline of $26.6 billion is the
steepest since January 2009, when Bank Rossii arrested a ruble
devaluation. The ruble depreciated 10 percent against the dollar
in September.  Policy makers in emerging markets are seeking to bolster
their currencies as the debt crisis on both sides of the
Atlantic drains capital. Concerns that economic growth is
slowing have sent commodity prices lower and cut demand for
riskier emerging market assets. The stock market in Russia,
which depends on oil and natural gas sales for as much as 40
percent of its budget revenue, tumbled 12 percent in September,
the worst decline since June 2009.  “It’s getting more difficult,” VTB Chairman  Andrei Kostin 
said today in an interview with Bloomberg Television in Moscow.
Tapping “liquidity from the market, the financial market, is
very difficult for Russian companies and Russian banks” as Bank
Rossii takes rubles out of the market.  No ‘Severe Squeeze’  The central bank sold about $8 billion to shore up the
currency in September, the most since the ruble’s devaluation in
January 2009, Chairman Sergey Ignatiev told reporters in Moscow
yesterday. The regulator intensified sales on Oct. 4, selling
$1.15 billion on the  currency market , he said.  The problem is “manageable,” with the  Finance Ministry 
providing more than 1 trillion rubles ($31 billion) in auctions
to banks, Kostin said. Russia is not facing a “severe squeeze”
as it did in 2008, he said.  The ruble strengthened 0.4 percent to 32.4395 against the
dollar at 1:29 p.m. in Moscow.  Bank Rossii’s reserves are likely to rise by the end of the
year, central bank First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said
today at a VTB-sponsored conference in Moscow. The currency is
more likely to strengthen against other currencies than weaken
in the near term, he said. 