-- 
S&P Denies Any ‘Rubber Stamp’ Rating of Notes at Bidding of Australia Bank

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-10-07T01:57:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/s-p-didn-t-rubber-stamp-notes-at-bank-s-bidding-company-says.html
Standard & Poor’s , the ratings
company accused of bowing to pressure from an Australian bank to
issue its highest rating for notes that lost 94 percent of their
value, thoroughly investigated the investment and didn’t just
“rubber stamp” the bank’s opinion, a court was told.  S&P was sued along with ABN Amro Bank NV, the Australian
affiliate of the Royal Bank of Scotland, by Australian towns
over the sale of notes called Rembrandt that plummeted in value
during the global financial crisis in 2008.  In the first lawsuit of its kind in the world, according to
IMF (Australia) Ltd., which is funding the litigation, damages
are being sought from S&P for misleading investors with its
ratings. S&P, a unit of New York-based McGraw-Hill Cos., rated
the Rembrandt notes AAA based on data supplied by ABN Amro Bank
and under “significant pressure” from the bank, said Noel
Hudley, a lawyer representing the towns.  S&P, blamed in an April Senate report for helping fuel the
credit crisis, could face claims by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission related to a 2007 rating of mortgage-backed
securities that was downgraded six months later, McGraw-Hill
said last month. S&P said in August it will replace Deven Sharma
as president at the end of this year with Douglas Peterson.  “You are the wuss for bending over in front of bankers and
taking it,” Sebastian Venus, who had prepared an internal model
for the notes at S&P, told Derek Ding, an analyst responsible
for rating them, according to e-mail transcripts in a written
version of the plaintiffs’ opening statement that was released
by the court. “You rate something AAA, when it’s really A-?”  Selected Emails  The plaintiffs cite “selectively” from the hundreds of
documents that were submitted, S&P said in a written version of
the opening statement its own lawyers plan to present in court
today.  “Those e-mail exchanges also evidence the fact that S&P
did not simply rubber stamp ABN’s opinion,” the company said in
the filing. “Conflicting views are to be expected in the
context of any serious process of analysis and consideration.”  A dozen Australian townships claim they lost A$15 million
($14.6 million) of A$16 million invested in the Community Income
Constant Proportion Debt Obligation Notes. The notes were
unwound less than two years after the towns bought them because
credit spreads kept increasing and the notes’ cash value was
exhausted, according to court documents.  Competent Buyers    The towns also sued Local Government Financial Services
Ltd., a municipal financial adviser that bought the notes from
ABN Amro Bank, now known as The Royal Bank of  Scotland  NV, and 
resold them to the towns. LGFS also sued the bank, accusing it 
of breach of contract.  In his opening statement yesterday, ABN Amro Bank’s lawyer
Ian Jackman said LGFS officials who purchased the notes were
highly competent and should have known what they were buying.  “If you don’t understand a product, don’t go into it,”
Jackman said. “Nowhere do we say we eliminate the risk. We
can’t do that.”  The AAA rating gave the purchasers confidence that they
were buying a product similar to a AAA-rated bond, Guy Parker,
LGFS’s lawyer said yesterday.  S&P, which has been issuing credit ratings for almost 100
years, conducted extensive testing of the notes and analyzed the
models before a committee at the firm was satisfied they
deserved a AAA rating, the company said in its written
submission.  “Rating is an art, not a science,” the company said.
“There is no ‘correct’ procedure for ratings.”  Ratings firms have been faulted by lawmakers, regulators
and investors for fueling the 2008 credit crisis by giving
inflated grades on debt linked to risky loans. The Dodd-Frank
Act, passed in response to the crisis, required the SEC to set
up an office to oversee raters including S&P and its rivals
Moody’s Corp. and Fitch Ratings Ltd.  The trial, which began Oct. 4, is scheduled for 10 weeks in
Sydney.  The case is: Bathurst Regional Council v. Local Government
Financial Services Ltd. NSD936/2009. Federal Court of  Australia 
(Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  