-- 
SABMiller Shares Surge on Takeover Report

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-10-06T16:33:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/sabmiller-shares-surge-on-report-of-ab-inbev-takeover-talks.html
SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the world’s second-
biggest brewer, advanced the most in almost three years in
London trading after Brazilian news website IG reported that the
beermaker is in talks to be bought by larger competitor
 Anheuser-Busch InBev NV. (ABI)   The stock rose 7 percent, the steepest gain since Nov. 24,
2008. Guilherme Barros, a columnist at the Sao Paulo-based
website, said a deal could be worth about $80 billion. He didn’t
say how he obtained the information.  Nigel Fairbrass , a spokesman for London-based SABMiller,
and Marianne Amssoms, a spokeswoman for Leuven, Belgium-based AB
InBev, declined to comment on the report.  Analysts downplayed the speculation, saying such a deal
would be contrary to recent guidance by AB InBev management. The
Budweiser brewer is “the right size” and is focused on so-
called organic growth, Chief Executive Officer Carlos Brito said
in an interview with Dutch newspaper  De Tijd  in July. AB InBev,
formed when InBev NV bought Anheuser-Busch Cos. in 2008 for $52
billion, had net debt of $40.1 billion as of June 30.  “We assign little probability” to an AB InBev acquisition
of SABMiller,  Pablo Zuanic , an analyst at  Liberum Capital , said
in a note today, adding that “market talk on the subject has
been around for a while.”  Drinks Deals  AB InBev and SABMiller are among distillers and brewers who
have expanded through acquisitions as well as organic growth.
The former previously acquired AmBev, a leading Brazilian beer
company, before taking over Anheuser-Busch. SABMiller agreed to
buy  Australia ’s Foster’s Group Ltd. for about A$9.9 billion
($9.6 billion) on Sept. 21.  Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s biggest
distiller, said in February that it was buying Mey Icki, adding
 Turkey ’s largest maker of Raki liquor for about $2.1 billion.  SABMiller, the maker of Grolsch and Peroni, rose 147.5
pence to 2,247.5 pence as of the 4:35 p.m. close of trading in
London, after reaching an intraday peak of 2,323 pence. That
gives the company a market value of 35.7 billion pounds ($55
billion). AB InBev fell 17 cents, or 0.4 percent, to 39.46 euros
in Brussels, after dropping as much as 2.3 percent.  “Raising $80 billion in such volatile markets seems a
tough ask and such a strategic deal appears to contradict senior
AB InBev management commentary,” Andy Smith, an analyst at MF
Global in  London , said today in an e-mail.  MillerCoors  SABMiller is “unlikely” to be bought by AB InBev because
of the potential costs of exiting joint ventures and the price
of a takeover,  Trevor Stirling , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein in London, said in a March report.  Were AB InBev to acquire SABMiller, it would probably have
to divest SABMiller’s stake in MillerCoors LLC, a joint venture
with Molson Coors Brewing Co., and “take a haircut on fair
value on the disposal,” Stirling wrote at the time.  SABMiller’s 49 percent stake in China Resources Snow
Breweries Ltd., its Chinese joint venture, may present a similar
issue, while a buyer could be liable to charges from any change
of ownership of its 20 percent stake in Groupe Castel’s African
beer business, according to the Bernstein analyst.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  