-- 
Saft Chief Says Infrastructure So Far Proving Resilient to Debt

-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 
2011-10-06T07:30:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/saft-chief-says-infrastructure-so-far-proving-resilient-to-debt.html
Saft Groupe SA (SAFT) , a French maker of
batteries for aerospace, railway and telecommunications uses,
said Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis hasn’t reduced sales as
slowing economies hurt its customers later than other companies.  “We don’t think we’ve seen anything notable in terms of
change in the third quarter,” Chief Executive Officer John Searle said in an interview in Paris yesterday. “It would seem
that the financial market pessimism hasn’t yet hit the real
economy.”  Moody’s Investors Service cut  Italy ’s credit rating by
three levels on Oct. 4, and said it may lower those of some
other European countries, citing potential for a “profound
loss” in investor confidence stemming from the debt crisis. The
 International Monetary Fund  forecasts economic growth for euro
countries of 1.6 percent this year and 1.1 percent in 2012.  Saft, based in the Paris suburb of Bagnolet, may benefit
from the euro’s decline against the dollar as 40 percent of the
company’s sales are in the U.S. currency, a greater proportion
than its costs, Searle said. Saft also stands to gain from a
recent drop in the price of nickel, for which at least 60
percent of needs are hedged six months in advance, the CEO said.  Many of Saft’s activities tied to infrastructure are
“late-cycle” businesses, Searle said. “If there is something
bad coming in 2012, we wouldn’t expect to be one of the
companies that would necessarily see that first.”  Cash From Disposal  Searle, who predicted in July that revenue in 2011 will
rise at least 7 percent, is looking at options for using $145
million in cash the company got from selling its stake in a car-
battery joint venture to  Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI)   The French manufacturer must refinance about 330 million
euros ($440 million) of bank loans due in July 2012 before
potentially using the disposal’s proceeds for acquisitions or
returning part of the money to shareholders, he said.  Saft’s gross debt is about 3 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. The net-debt
ratio, which amounted to 1.24 times Ebitda in late 2010, may
fall below 1 at the end of this year, Searle said.  The best position may be “somewhere between” the net and
gross figures, as Saft needs to fund sales growth of the
 lithium-ion batteries  that it started making last month at a
plant in Jacksonville,  Florida , he said.  Lithium-Ion Technology  Lithium-ion technology will probably help Saft boost
revenue by 10 percent a year from 2012 to 2016, helped by demand
for metering systems installed by utilities and applications in
renewable-energy storage and the  aerospace industry , the company
said in June. The manufacturer plans to reduce the cost of
making these high-power batteries, which boast a faster recharge
time and longer life cycle.  Provided that the “ideal  capital structure  leaves us with
an excess of cash” once the company has refinanced bank debt,
one option would be to look at “ways to distribute some of that
to our shareholders,” Searle said.  The company needs to keep flexibility for “relatively
modest” acquisitions in emerging markets to reduce the share of
sales from  Europe  and the U.S., he said.  Saft may also seek to buy some niche makers of specialized
batteries, or some technology companies whose valuations “seem
much more realistic” than a year ago, the CEO said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  