-- 
Samsung Profit Beats Estimates as Galaxy Smartphones Challenge Apple, HTC

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-10-07T08:19:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/samsung-third-quarter-profit-beats-estimates-on-galaxy-smartphone-demand.html
Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s
second-largest maker of mobile phones, reported profit that beat
analysts’ estimates as demand for Galaxy smartphones outweighed
slumping sales of displays and semiconductors.  Operating profit in the three months ended September was
4.2 trillion won ($3.6 billion), the Suwon, South Korea-based
company said in a statement today, more than the 3.7 trillion
won average of 28 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
The company had a profit of 4.86 trillion won a year earlier.  Samsung joins  HTC Corp. (2498)  in benefiting from the popularity
of mobile devices running Google Inc.’s Android software. The
gains in smartphones, where Samsung is second only to  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) , helped offset falling profit from the biggest business of
selling memory chips and flat-screen panels.  “I’m quite amazed,” said Lee Seung Woo, a Seoul-based
analyst at Shinyoung Securities Co. “It seems like there was a
big surprise on the smartphone side.”  Samsung rose 0.6 percent to 860,000 won at the 3 p.m. close
of trading in Seoul, after earlier climbing as much as 3
percent. The benchmark Kospi index gained 2.9 percent.  Operating profit may be 200 billion won higher or lower
than today’s preliminary estimate when audited results are
announced later this month, Samsung said. The company didn’t
provide net income figures and a breakdown of divisional
earnings. Sales rose 1.9 percent to 41 trillion won.  Mobile Business  Profit at the telecommunications unit likely jumped 76
percent to 1.99 trillion won, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of six analysts. Sales at the division may have gained 28
percent to 14.21 trillion won.  The company, which aims to sell more than 60 million
smartphones this year, probably shipped half of that in the
third quarter, Shinyoung’s Lee said.  Samsung will likely meet its target to sell more than 300
million handsets this year, including basic models, J.K. Shin,
head of Samsung’s mobile-phone division, said Sept. 26.  The South Korean company’s sales accelerated from the
second quarter after it began selling the  Galaxy S II , a
successor to its best-selling Android device introduced last
year to counter Apple’s iPhone. The latest 4.27-inch model was
unveiled in February.  The company has rolled out a new version of the Galaxy S II
that supports faster fourth-generation networks using the long-
term evolution, or LTE, technology, a feature lacking in the
latest iPhone.  Chip Profit Drops  Profit at the semiconductor division, Samsung’s biggest
business by revenue last year, probably fell 63 percent to 1.26
trillion won from a year ago, according to the median of a
survey of six analysts by Bloomberg News. Sales may have fallen
to 8.98 trillion won from 10.66 trillion won.  Weakening demand for computer-memory chips also hurt  Micron
Technology Inc. (MU) , the largest U.S. maker of the product used in
personal computers. On Sept. 29, Micron reported a net loss of
$135 million for the fiscal fourth quarter.  The price of the benchmark DDR3 2-gigabit DRAM has slumped
more than 70 percent in the past 12 months, according to data
from Taipei-based Dramexchange Technology Inc., operator of
 Asia ’s largest spot market for semiconductors.  No Rebound  There won’t likely be “a drastic rebound” in prices for
chips used in personal computers, Kwon Oh Hyun, head of the
company’s chip division, said in an e-mail interview on Sept.
29. The company’s chip business is “on track” with the capital
expenditure plan for 2011, he said without elaborating.  Global personal-computer shipments will rise 3.8 percent to
364 million units in 2011, compared with an earlier projection
of 9.3 percent, research firm Gartner Inc. said on Sept. 8.
Shipments will probably increase 10.9 percent in 2012, the
Stamford, Connecticut-based company said.  Samsung, which controls about 40 percent of the DRAM
market, last month began operations at a new 12-trillion won
factory, the largest in the industry, in Hwaseong, outside
 Seoul .  LCD, TVs  Samsung’s display division likely had an operating loss of
200 billion won, compared with 520 billion won profit a year
earlier as TV sales fell amid an economic slowdown, according to
the survey of analysts. The loss would be the company’s third in
as many quarters.  The average price of Samsung’s LCD displays for televisions
probably fell about 25 percent in the third quarter, according
to Hana Daetoo Securities Co. estimates.  Samsung’s TV-making unit likely had an operating profit of
359.5 billion won from a loss of 230 billion won a year ago,
helped by models featuring 3-D functionality and Web-based
services, according to the survey. Sales at the unit probably
rose to 14.92 trillion won from 14.13 trillion won, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  