-- 
Samsung, Micron Say Memory Needs to Go Vertical to Keep Up

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-10-06T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/samsung-micron-urge-memory-industry-to-switch-to-new-stackable-cube-chips.html
Samsung Electronics Co. is teaming up
with rival  Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  to spur the chip industry into
switching to stackable memory, part of an effort to cut energy
use and speed up computers.  Makers of dynamic random access memory, or DRAM, should
start making the transition to a so-called hybrid-cube approach,
which stacks chips on top of one another, the companies said
today in joint statement. The technique will make the chips more
efficient and faster at supplying data to computer processors.  “You can move a lot more data with a lot less energy than
what the traditional technologies use today,” said  Scott
Graham , general manager of memory marketing for Boise, Idaho-
based Micron, the largest U.S. memory manufacturer. “We’re able
to realize energy savings of up to 70 percent.”  Companies in the $39 billion memory-chip industry have
always sold DRAM chips that lie side-by-side on small circuit
boards, which are plugged into the main board of a computer. As
demands for memory and processors speeds increase, that layout
causes bottlenecks and demands too much power, Samsung and
Micron say. It also takes up more space in devices.  The new design eliminates the need for the second circuit
board by having the memory chips send data through to a
controller layer, which then delivers the information to a
processor -- the brains of a computer.  Samsung, based in Suwon,  South Korea , is the biggest global
manufacturer of memory. The rare collaboration with Micron is
aimed at setting an industry standard, which would then be
ratified by other competitors. Unlike some other parts of the
chip industry, computer memory closely follows universal
standards, so that products from rival manufacturers can be used
interchangeably.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 