-- 
Samsung, Oracle, AstraZeneca, Style Empire, Berjaya: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-10-06T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/samsung-oracle-astrazeneca-ea-berjaya-intellectual-property.html
Samsung Electronics Co. aims to stop
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone 4S handset being sold in  France  and  Italy  on
patent-infringement claims, escalating the dispute between the
world’s two biggest makers of smartphones and tablets.  Samsung will file motions with courts in Paris and Milan
seeking the ban, each citing two patent infringements on
wireless telecommunications technology, the Suwon, South Korea-
based company said in an e-mailed statement Oct. 5. Apple
unveiled the iPhone 4S in Cupertino,  California  this week and
aims to start sales later this month.  The move adds to legal disputes that began in April, when
Apple claimed that Samsung’s Galaxy devices “slavishly” copied
the iPad and iPhone. At stake is dominance in the fastest-
growing segment of the $207 billion mobile-phone market, where
Apple is competing against makers of handsets powered by  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system.  Steve Park, a Seoul-based spokesman for Apple, declined to
comment on Samsung’s statement. Florence Catel, a spokeswoman
for Samsung France, didn’t have any additional information on
when the suit will be filed or when a hearing will take place.  Samsung plans to file preliminary injunctions in other
countries after further review, it said in the statement. Apple
is also one of the South Korean company’s biggest buyers of
chips and displays.  “Apple has continued to flagrantly violate our
intellectual property rights and free ride on our technology,”
Samsung said.  Apple this week introduced the iPhone 4S equipped with a
faster processor, a higher-resolution camera and a new software
interface to help it vie with Google’s Android, which powers
Samsung’s Galaxy phone and tablets.  At stake is leadership in the market for smartphones, which
is projected to double by 2015, when 1 billion of the handsets
will be sold, according to research firm IDC. While Apple is the
single biggest smartphone maker, the Android coalition leads the
market, accounting for 41.7 percent. The iPhone accounted for
almost half Apple’s sales in the most recent quarter.  Apple had earlier won backing from a Dusseldorf court that
upheld a temporary ban on sales of the Galaxy Tab 10.1 in
 Germany . Samsung filed an appeal against the ruling.  In  Australia , Apple has delayed the release of the product
for two months by seeking a temporary judicial ban.  Samsung will abandon plans to sell the Galaxy Tab 10.1 in
Australia if it doesn’t win approval to sell it in the next two
weeks, Neil Young, a Samsung lawyer, told Federal Court Justice
Annabelle Bennett in Sydney this week. Missing the Christmas
season would result in the new tablet being “dead,” he said.  Oracle Trial With Google Over Java Will Probably Be Delayed  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s trial over whether Google Inc.’s Android
software infringed its patents for Java technology will likely
be postponed from its scheduled Oct. 31 start, a federal judge
said.  U.S. District Judge William Alsup, who will preside over
the trial in  San Francisco , said in a court filing yesterday
that an unrelated criminal trial that will begin Oct. 17 means
it’s “unlikely” the Oracle-Google case can go forward as
scheduled. Alsup didn’t say when the Oracle trial would be held.  Oracle is seeking billions of dollars in damages from the
operator of the world’s largest search engine. The Redwood City,
California-based company accuses Google of infringing its
patents and copyrights for the Java programming language in the
Android operating system, now running on more than 150 million
mobile devices.  Google, based in Mountain View, California, has denied the
claims.  The case is Oracle America Inc. v. Google Inc., 3:10-03561-
WHA, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Francisco).  AstraZeneca Says It Settled Seroquel Patent Suit Against Accord  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , the London-based pharmaceutical company
that makes the schizophrenia treatment Seroquel, said it settled
patent litigation against Intas Pharmaceuticals Ltd.’s Accord
Healthcare unit that was related to the drug.  According to a company statement released yesterday, as
part of the settlement, Accord was been granted a license to
enter the U.S. market on Nov. 1, 2016. Additionally, the Intas
unit has agreed not to dispute the validity or enforceability of
the patents that were at issue in the case.  AstraZeneca’s remaining Seroquel patent cases are ongoing,
according to the company statement.  The British pharmaceutical company sued Accord in federal
court in Trenton,  New Jersey , in February 2009. AstraZeneca
claimed Accord was infringing patents 4,879,288 and 5.948,437. 
The case is AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP v. Accord Healthcare
Inc., 3:09-cv-00619-JAP-TJB, U.S. District Court, District of
New Jersey (Trenton).  U.S. Consumer Safety Commission Votes to Study Table Saws  The U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission voted 5-0
yesterday to take the first steps toward regulating table saws,
which have been blamed for more than 4,000 finger, hand and arm
injuries a year.  The agency will examine technologies, such as those offered
by closely held SawStop LLC, which can stop the blade instantly
when human flesh is detected and may eventually issue a rule,
Scott Wolfson, an agency spokesman said. The CPSC will seek
comments from the industry and the general public before moving
to a more specific proposal, he said.  Stephen Gass, founder of Tualatin, Oregon-based SawStop,
first petitioned the CPSC more than eight years ago to consider
his technology after being turned down by power-tool companies
on licensing deals. The Power Tool Institute, which represents
manufacturers such as Robert Bosch GmbH,  Stanley Black & Decker
Inc. (SWK) , Ryobi Ltd., and Techtronic Industries Co., warned that a
mandatory standard could create a monopoly for Gass, who they
say has locked up more than 70 patents.  “Unfortunately, for consumers, such a mandatory standard
could as much as quadruple the cost of current, inexpensive saws
and significantly increase the cost of professional saws on the
market today,” Susan Young, executive director of the
Cleveland-based Power Tool Institute, said in a statement.  Ryobi Ltd. and its U.S.-based power-tool distributor were
hit with a $1.5 million personal-injury verdict in March 2010
involving the Japanese company’s failure to take a license to
patent safety-tool technology.  In that case, the plaintiff claimed that Hiroshima-based
Ryobi knew, ever since a November 2000 meeting of a power-tool
trade group, that a technology existed to detect the proximity
of human flesh to a saw blade and stop the saw instantly.  The jury found that Ryobi and its distributor sold a
product that was defectively designed, and that plaintiff Carlos
Osorio lacked full knowledge of the product’s defect and danger.
Although  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , which sold the saw, was also a
defendant, the jury found no liability on the retailer’s part.  Ryobi appealed, and the lower court ruling was upheld by an
appeals court yesterday. At the time of the lower court ruling,
the Oregonian newspaper  reported  that 60 similar cases were
pending nationwide.  That case was Osorio v. One World Technologies Inc., 1:06-
cv-10725-NMG, U.S. District Court, District of  Massachusetts 
(Boston). The appeals court case is Osorio v. One World
Technologies, 10-1824,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the First
Circuit.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  EA Files Application for Two ‘Style Empire’ Trademarks for Games  Electronic Arts Inc. (ERTS) , the Redwood City company known for
its sports-oriented computer games such as  Madden NFL , may be
looking far from the sports world for its next game if a recent
filing with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office is any
indication.  According to the patent office database, EA filed two
applications Sept. 26 to register “Style Empire” as a
trademark. The marks are for computer game software and an
online computer game.  The Joystiq website, which follows computer game
development,  speculates  that the marks will be used with “a
casual and/or social game” or a “new massive multiplayer
rhythm dress-up motion game.”  The applications were filed by  Vineeta Gajwani , EA’s in-
house IP counsel.  Berjaya Acquired Borders Trademark Rights for  Malaysia   Berjaya Corp. Bhd has acquired all rights to the Borders
trademarks in Malaysia, the country’s Sun newspaper reported.  The mark was acquired from the liquidators of Borders Group
Inc. and was approved by the bankruptcy court in  New York ,
according to the Sun.  As a result of the acquisition, Malaysia will be the only
country in Southeast Asia where Borders still operates, the
newspaper reported.  The rights acquired cover both Internet-based retail
businesses and brick-and-mortar stores, according to the Sun.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Copyrights for Foreign Works Scrutinized by U.S. High Court  The U.S. Supreme Court grappled with a challenge to a
federal law that gave new copyright protection to millions of
foreign-produced books, movies and musical pieces that once were
in the public domain.  In an hour-long argument yesterday that touched on the work
of Jimi Hendrix, Aaron Copland and William Shakespeare, the
justices signaled they are divided over the constitutionality of
the 1994 statute, which aimed to harmonize U.S. copyright law
with rules in other countries. The measure applied to works that
had been excluded from the American copyright system for various
reasons.  The case has implications for the U.S. film and music
industries, which are urging broad copyright protection, and
Google Inc., which is asking the court to ensure the
availability of works that are central to its digital-book
project. The court’s ruling will affect rights to works by
Alfred Hitchcock, Pablo Picasso, Igor Stravinsky and C.S. Lewis,
according to opponents of the law.  Justice Stephen Breyer emerged as a skeptic of the law,
pointing to what he said was a “treasure trove” of foreign-
produced literature and music that groups are working to post on
the Internet.  Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg took the other side, saying the
measure gave foreign composers like Stravinsky and Dmitri
Shostakovich copyright protection for “the same limited time as
Aaron Copland,” the late American composer.  The 1994 law is being challenged by a group of orchestra
conductors, educators, performers, film archivists and movie
distributors who say they will lose access to important
material. Leading the group is Lawrence Golan, a music professor
at the University of Denver who sued in 2001.  The group’s lawyer, Anthony Falzone, said the law “took
millions of works out of the public domain, where they had been
for decades.”  Congress approved the law to meet obligations stemming from
the so-called Uruguay Round of international trade talks. The
motion-picture and music industries pushed for the provision to
secure reciprocal copyright protection for American works
abroad.  The measure, known as Section 514, applied to foreign works
that were excluded from American protection, in some cases
because the U.S. didn’t have copyright relations with the
author’s home country and in other cases because the U.S. hadn’t
yet recognized copyrights on sound recordings. The law gave
those authors the copyright protection they otherwise would have
had.  The Obama administration is defending the law, arguing that
Congress has the constitutional power to remove works from the
public domain. Donald Verrilli, making his first argument before
the court since being sworn in as U.S. solicitor general, today
called the law “essentially the price of admission to the
international system.”  The case is Golan v. Holder, 10-545.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Akin Gets  Texas  Magistrate, McDermott Litigator for IP Group  Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP added two lawyers to its
IP practice group, the Washington-based firm said in a
 statement .  The two new hires are Charles Everingham IV and David M.
Stein.  Everingham  is a former magistrate judge for the Eastern
District of Texas, a popular venue for patent-infringement
cases. He handled more than 75 of the hearings that determined
the scope of a patent, commonly known as Markman hearings.  He
presided, by stipulation of the parties, over more than 200
civil cases, the majority of which were IP disputes involving
complex technology.  Before he was selected as magistrate judge in 2000, he
served for seven years as permanent law clerk to U.S. District
Judge T. John Ward of that same judicial district.  He has an undergraduate degree from Stephen F. Austin State
University and a law degree from Baylor University.  Stein , who joins from  Chicago ’s McDermott Will & Emery, is
a litigator who headed his former firm’s East Texas practice
group. He has represented clients in IP disputes related to
semiconductor devices and processing, medical devices, sporting
goods and business methods.  He has an undergraduate degree from Stanford University and
a law degree from Georgetown University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 