-- 
San Miguel in Talks With CIMB to Sell Bank Stake, Ang Says

-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 
2011-10-06T09:56:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/san-miguel-in-talks-with-cimb-to-sell-bank-stake-ang-says-1-.html
San Miguel Corp. (SMC) , the largest
Philippine company by assets that’s seeking to expand in
Malaysia, said it’s in discussions to sell a stake in  Bank of
Commerce  to  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)   “We’re in talks,”  San Miguel  President Ramon Ang said in
an interview in Manila today. CIMB is “one of the biggest banks
in Malaysia” and San Miguel plans to sell “a portion” of the
Philippine lender to the Malaysian company, he said, declining
to provide more details.  The Philippine brewer has been expanding into oil refining,
power and infrastructure to triple the return it previously
earned from food and drinks alone. San Miguel agreed in August
to acquire Exxon Mobil Corp.’s 65 percent stake in Esso  Malaysia 
Bhd. and said it may spend as much as $1.2 billion upgrading
Esso’s oil refinery and renovating gasoline stations.  “A purchase by CIMB will pave the way for San Miguel to
link with a strong partner in Malaysia, where it’s putting a
substantial investment through its purchase of Esso,” said Alex Pomento, head of research at Macquarie Group Ltd. in Manila.
CIMB “has the financial muscle to strengthen” the Philippine
lender, he said.  CIMB, Malaysia’s second-largest lender, confirmed the talks
with San Miguel after the close of trading in Malaysia. “These
discussions are currently at an early stage and further
announcements will be made in the event of any material
developments,” it said in an e-mailed statement.  Bank Stake  San Miguel said in June 2009 its property unit and
retirement fund secured a 51 percent stake in Bank of Commerce.
In January,  San Miguel Properties Inc. (SMP)  bought an additional 7.16
percent stake in the bank.  Bank of Commerce is the  Philippines ’s 16th-largest lender
with assets of 90.7 billion pesos ($2.07 billion), data from the
 Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas  showed.  CIMB, which also operates in Singapore and  Indonesia ,
bought 70 percent of  Thailand ’s Sicco Securities Pcl last month.
CIMB and bigger rival Malayan Banking Bhd. said in June they
were pulling out of separate talks to acquire Kuala Lumpur-based
RHB Capital Bhd.  CIMB rose 3.4 percent to 7.06 ringgit at the close in Kuala
Lumpur trading, the highest in more than three weeks. San Miguel
advanced 0.2 percent to 113.50 pesos at the noon close of
trading in Manila, snapping three days of declines.  “This is still part of their goal to raise the war chest
and to consolidate into infrastructure,” said  Jonathan Ravelas ,
a market strategist at Banco de Oro Unibank Inc. “It helps them
raise capital and at the same time, a partnership with another
group could open more doors for them.”  --Clarissa Batino and Ian Sayson in Manila, Yen Kuan Gan and 
Pooi Koon Chong in  Kuala Lumpur . Editors: Linus Chua, Russell Ward  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Evans at 
 revans6@bloomberg.net  