-- 
Saudi Aramco Raises Light and Medium Oil-Price Premium for Asia to Record

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a   a n d   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 
2011-10-06T10:23:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/saudi-arabia-sets-record-premiums-for-two-crude-grades-exported-to-asia.html
Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the world’s
largest crude exporter, set prices for two grades of crude to be
sold to  Asia  at the highest premiums in at least 11 years and
cut other for the U.S.,  Europe  and the Mediterranean.  The state-owned producer, known as Saudi Aramco, increased
the pricing formula for its Arab Light crude to Asia by $1.05 a
barrel to $2.70 a barrel above the average price assessment for
Oman and Dubai grades, it said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. That is the highest premium in Bloomberg records
going back to June 2000. Oman and Dubai assessments published by
Platts are used as pricing benchmarks for Middle Eastern oil.  Dhahran-based Saudi Aramco raised the price for its Arab
Medium variety to $1.15 a barrel over the Oman-Dubai average,
according to the statement. That’s also a record based on
Bloomberg data and is up from a 30-cent discount to the
benchmark in October.  Saudi Aramco  raised November official selling prices for
Arab Heavy crude to refiners in the U.S., the Mediterranean and
for loading from the Egyptian port of Sidi Kerir, according to
the statement. The company cut the prices for Arab Heavy to
Northwest Europe and for its Arab Medium grade to that region
and the Mediterranean.  Saudi Arabia  and other Persian Gulf producers sell the bulk
of their oil under long-term contracts. Most of the region’s
state oil companies set their crude at a premium or discount to
a benchmark price.  The following table shows differentials for four regions
into which Saudi Aramco sells in relation to benchmark prices,
the monthly change and degrees of gravity as defined by the
 American Petroleum Institute . Prices are in dollars a barrel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net ;
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Gordon  at   pgordon6@bloomberg.net  