-- 
HSBC Lowers Asian Growth Estimates on Threats to Exports, Market Turmoil

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   P h a n g
-- 
2011-10-06T05:25:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/hsbc-lowers-forecasts-for-most-asian-economies.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (5)  cut its economic
growth estimates for most Asian economies, citing threats to
exports and the impact of sliding stocks and currencies.  Europe’s debt crisis and a struggling U.S. expansion signal
Asian exports “will almost certainly take a large hit,” HSBC
said in a report received today. Domestic demand “will also
throttle down” as currencies and capital markets fall, with
Asia excluding Japan growing 7.3 percent in 2011 and 2012, lower
than earlier projections of 7.5 percent for both years, it said.  HSBC joins Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in dimming its Asian
outlook after Europe’s plight and the threat of a recession in
the U.S. roiled global markets. While the expansion in  Asia  will
slow, Chinese growth will “hold up” and regional liquidity is
“ample,” which should help avert a sharper deceleration,
according to HSBC.  “The risks are certainly rising with every week that
policy uncertainty persists in the West,” Hong Kong-based
Frederic Neumann, co-head of Asian economics at the bank, said
in the report. Still, Asia “may just avoid cracking under
pressure” aided by China, he said.  HSBC cut its 2011 and 2012 projections for gross domestic
product growth in  Hong Kong , Indonesia,  South Korea , Malaysia,
 Singapore , Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam. It lowered 2012
predictions for Japan and New Zealand.  Europe’s biggest bank left its 2011 and 2012 estimates for
China, India, Australia and the Philippines unchanged. It
predicts 8.9 percent growth in  China  this year and an 8.6
percent expansion next year.  Interest-Rate Pause  Emerging-market central banks from China to Brazil have
left  interest rates  unchanged in recent weeks or cut borrowing
costs to shield expansion. About $8.4 trillion has been wiped
off stocks worldwide this year on concern the global economy
faces a slump.  Asia is capable of injecting stimulus if another financial
crisis flares, Nicholas Kwan, the Hong Kong-based regional head
of research at Standard Chartered Plc, said in a report today.  That would help lift Asia out of any “deep” recession, he
said. The region remains “too small to single-handedly lift the
world out of recession,” he also said.  Goldman Sachs this week reduced its global growth estimates
for 2011 and 2012, predicting recessions in Germany and France
as the European economy stalls and the risk of a contraction in
the U.S. grows. It reduced its 2012 economic growth prediction
for Asia excluding  Japan  to 7.1 percent from 7.8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  