-- 
Scene Last Night: Ken Griffin, Sandy Weill, John McEnroe

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-10-06T17:23:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/scene-last-night-ken-griffin-fitz-the-tantrums-sandy-weill-gergiev.html
At the Whitney Museum of American
Art’s fall gala last night, the honoree was not an artist, a
financier or a celebrity. It was Calvin Tomkins, who has
profiled 95 artists for the New Yorker magazine.  His gala speech was better than most.  “Artists are really more interesting than other people,
including bankers,” Tomkins said, using the term broadly and,
refreshingly for these times, not at all pejoratively. “They
know more, they live better, they’re much better cooks -- and
they understand real estate.”  Laughter ensued from the mix of artists and bankers.  The gala took place in a former bus depot along the  Hudson
River , next to a jogging path. Chicago hedge funders  Ken Griffin 
and Anne Dias Griffin as well as artists John Currin and Rachel
Feinstein arrived as aspiring athletes with terrycloth headbands
and love handles shambled past.  KKR & Co.’s Alexander Navab and artist Chuck Close ate
their dinner -- a frisee salad with mushrooms and pecorino,
Alaskan cod with faro and black rice -- at mirror-topped tables
decorated with freestanding bouquets of hydrangeas and cacti.
(Later, they chewed their way through coin-sized pieces of black
licorice served in candy dishes after dessert.)  Fitz & the Tantrums  Filmmaker Harvey Weinstein and his wife, Georgina Chapman,
actress Michelle Monaghan and model Coco Rocha were among the
650 guests listening to Fitz & the Tantrums, the Los Angeles
soul-pop band that released its first full-length album,
“Pickin’ Up the Pieces,” last year. The band played a long
set, including their hit “Don’t Gotta Work It Out.” In front
of the stage, Patty Smyth sat on the lap of her husband,  John McEnroe . (The band’s U.S. tour returns to New York on Nov. 10
for a show at Terminal 5.)  Artist Marilyn Minter created a video installation that
played on giant screens throughout the dining area consisting of
letters falling in slow motion into a pool of liquid.  “The letters spell out ‘Whitney,’” Minter said. “It’s
the Whitney making a big splash.”  As honoree, Tomkins received a thick bound volume
containing his New Yorker profiles along with responses from his
subjects, such as Julie Mehretu, whose mural decorates the lobby
of Goldman Sachs’s building in lower  Manhattan .  The gala raised $3.2 million.  Carnegie Hall   The spotlight at Carnegie Hall’s opening night gala was on
Valery Gergiev, who conducted the Mariinsky Orchestra in a
muscular, bright performance that included an encore, the
Polonaise from “Eugene Onegin.”  Caviar was on offer at the cocktail hour, and Shostakovich,
Tchaikovsky and Rimsky-Korsakov were on the program. Perhaps the
only thing not Russian on stage was the soloist, cellist Yo-Yo
Ma.  Sandy Weill  said the evening was about Americans and
Russians coming together. The guest list included  David Gray ,
managing partner Russia of PricewaterhouseCoopers Russia B.V.,
as well as Ed Forst, co-head of  investment management  at Goldman
Sachs Group & Co.  Weill said he has two tuxedos. “When I’m in New York, I
wear them a lot,” he said.  The tuxes don’t go with him to his home in Sonoma,
 California .  “Sonoma is about clear air, good weather and great
wines,” Weill said.  The gala raised almost $2.8 million.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  -- With assistance from Zinta Lundborg. Editors: Jeffrey Burke,
Laurie Muchnick.  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 