-- 
Schiller Poised to Be Apple’s Top Pitchman in Post-Jobs Era

-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-10-06T15:32:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/schiller-poised-to-become-apple-s-top-pitchman-in-post-jobs-era.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  called on Phil Schiller to
stand in for  Steve Jobs  at the 2009 Macworld conference after
the then-chief executive officer went on medical leave. Later
that year, with Jobs still out, Schiller unveiled the iPhone 3GS.  Now that Jobs is gone, Schiller is likely to become the
company’s primary pitchman.  Schiller, vice president for worldwide product marketing,
has been the second-most-public face at Cupertino, California-
based Apple for years. He’s been a fixture in Jobs’s keynotes,
demonstrating new products and playing the comic sidekick.
Behind the scenes, he has run the marketing empire that hones
and promotes the company’s products.  Schiller, 50, has always been willing to take a body blow
for Apple. In 1999, he took a feet-first high dive into a mat
holding an Apple laptop as part of a stunt during a Jobs
MacWorld speech.  He has been one of a handful of Apple executives involved
in the detailed process leading to Jobs’s keynote appearances,
including sitting through repeated rehearsals by executives from
other companies invited to showcase their products on stage.  Apple has drawn so much limelight that Schiller has become
something of a high-technology celebrity himself, including a
site called  Schillermania  devoted to his appearances.  His on-stage shtick usually involves self-deprecating humor.
At his MacWorld appearance in January 2009 in Jobs’s traditional
slot, Schiller started off his speech by saying, “I can’t tell
you how much I appreciate you all showing up,” drawing laughter
and applause.  Trusted Lieutenant  Inside Apple, he was one of Jobs’s most trusted lieutenants.
He is responsible for many of the company’s memorable product
slogans and for singing the praises of Apple products, from Macs
to the  App Store , to the media.  As head of developer relations, he’s also helped build
Apple’s vast system of partners, from applications developers to
makers of iPhone accessories.  When Apple came under fire in 2010 from developers who felt
the company was arbitrarily refusing to approve certain apps, he
wrote a public memo clarifying Apple’s policies. In 2009 he
defended Apple’s control of its App Store to Businessweek
magazine, saying the company had “built a store for the most
part that people can trust.”  Schiller is a devoted fan of  Boston College ’s hockey team.
After graduating from the school in 1982 with a Bachelor of
Science degree in biology, he worked as a programmer at
 Massachusetts General Hospital . He worked at Apple in the late
1980s before leaving in 1993.  After working as a marketing executive at FirePower Systems
Inc. and Macromedia Inc., Schiller rejoined Apple in 1997, when
Jobs was a consultant to the company and had not yet returned as
CEO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  