-- 
SEC Claims Author Used Ponzi Scheme to Repay Prior Fraud Victims

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-10-06T22:28:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/sec-gets-court-order-to-halt-alleged-26-million-ponzi-scheme.html
Eric J. Aronson, a New York man who
wrote a self-help book after pleading guilty to fraud more than
a decade ago, was accused by U.S. regulators today of operating
a $26 million  Ponzi scheme  in which he used investor funds to
pay court-ordered restitution to victims of his earlier fraud.  Aronson, 43, lured about 140 people to buy promissory notes
from companies he controlled including PermaPave Industries LLC,
touting returns of up to 33 percent on investments in natural-
stone pavers imported from  Australia , the Securities and
Exchange Commission said in a complaint filed today in
 Manhattan . U.S. attorneys filed related criminal charges against
Aronson today, the SEC said.  Aronson and other executives used new investor funds
collected between 2006 and 2010 to make payments to earlier
customers and siphoned off money to buy themselves luxury cars,
jewelry and gambling trips to  Las Vegas , according to the
complaint. Aronson, who penned the 2007  book  “DASH” with a
first chapter entitled “The Buffet of Life,” misappropriated
about $2.6 million through two other companies he solely
controlled, using the money to pay back victims of a scheme to
which he pleaded guilty in 2000, the SEC said.  Randy Zelin, an attorney for Aronson and  PermaPave ,
declined immediate comment.  Aronson and his associates “created the facade of a
profitable business, promised investors extraordinary rates of
return, and used much of their investors’ money to fund their
own lavish lifestyle,” George Canellos, head of the SEC’s New
York office, said in a statement.  The SEC is seeking to bar Aronson from serving as an
officer or director of a public company, as well as the return
of illicit profits and unspecified fines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  