-- 
Serbia Cuts Main Interest Rate as Debt Crisis Weakens Growth

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-10-06T14:07:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/serbia-cuts-main-interest-rate-to-year-low-as-debt-crisis-weakens-growth.html
Serbia’s central bank cut its
benchmark  interest rate  for the fourth time since June after an
easing of inflationary pressures created room for lower
borrowing costs amid an economic slowdown and high unemployment.  The Narodna Banka Srbije decreased its two-week repurchase
rate by a half-point to 10.75 percent, the lowest in a year,
matching the expectations of four of 23 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. Ten forecast a quarter-point decline while one
saw a three-quarter point cut and eight no change.  “Inflation is on a downward path” the bank said in a
statement after the decision. Weak aggregate demand will remain
the “key disinflationary factor” while global concerns and
domestic fiscal worries are the main risks that will shape
future rate decisions, the Belgrade-based bank said.  Europe ’s slowing economy and the ongoing debt crisis have
already weighed on demand for Serbian exports. Growth in the
Balkan nation, which aspires to become a European Union
candidate this year, slowed to 2.2 percent in the second quarter
after a revised 3.7 percent growth in the first three months.  The National Bank of Serbia last cut borrowing costs on
Sept. 8 amid an increasingly benign inflation outlook. The bank
targets an inflation rate of 4.5 percent, plus or minus 1.5
percentage points, at the end of 2011 and 4 percent, plus or
minus 1.5 percentage points, at the end of 2012.  IMF Agreement  The  International Monetary Fund  said earlier this week
there is room for further policy easing as long as inflation
continues to move to within the target band.  “The bigger cut than expected is still not a major
surprise, especially after the IMF last week approved a new
stand-by agreement for  Serbia  and said that Serbia has room to
cut rates more as inflationary pressures ease,”  Elisabeth Andreew , a Copenhagen-based strategist at Nordea Bank AB, wrote
in an e-mail to clients today. “We expect to see further rate
cuts in 2011, but the amount will depend on the pace of
inflation slowing.”  The economic slowdown may open up space for more rate cuts
in the coming months, analysts at Zagreb-based Hypo Alpe Adria
Bank said in a note to clients, adding the benchmark rate may
fall to 10 percent by the end of 2011.  Yields Fall  Alpe Adria and Raiffeisen Bank in Belgrade said the
approval of a 1 billion-euro ($1.32 billion) precautionary loan
by the IMF and the sale of a debut Eurobond worth $1 billion in
September also allowed the central bank to cut more than
analysts expected, helping the government lower its own
borrowing costs. The yield on three-month Treasury bills dropped
30 basis points to 11.6 percent in an auction today as investors
sought to buy 1.5 times more debt than offered.  The dinar was little changed at 101.62 to the euro at 3:26
p.m. in Belgrade.  Inflation slowed from a peak of 14.7 percent in April to
10.5 percent in August and the market sees the  consumer price
index , where food accounts for more than a third of the basket,
at a nine-month low of 9.6 percent in October, according to a
Bloomberg survey.  Food prices have stabilized and increases in regulated
prices have slowed, the central bank said in today’s statement.
September’s inflation rate “is expected in the single digits,”
it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  