-- 
Shell Keeps Singapore Refinery Shut as Firefighters Withdraw; Diesel Drops

-- B y   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 
2011-10-06T04:35:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/shell-keeps-singapore-refinery-shut-as-firefighters-withdraw-diesel-drops.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  will keep its
biggest refinery shut until investigations into a fire last week
are completed, it said as government firefighters withdrew from
the Singapore offshore site.  Shell shut down the Pulau Bukom plant after the fire
started on Sept. 28 and suspended some fuel shipments. It is
talking to customers over their supply needs, according to
today’s statement. The 500,000 barrel-a-day refinery exports 90
percent of its products to the Asia-Pacific,  Europe ’s largest
oil company says on its  website .  “We do not expect any of the units to be restarted until a
thorough investigation has been done and we are confident that
it is safe to do so,” Serene Loo, a Shell spokeswoman in
 Singapore , said in e-mailed comments today.  The profit from turning crude into gasoil, or diesel, rose
as much as 13 percent in the days after the fire. It declined as
Taiwanese refiner Formosa Petrochemical Corp. lifted a force
majeure of its own, boosting regional supply.  Gasoil’s premium to Asian benchmark Dubai crude dropped 80
cents to $16.87 a barrel at 11:21 a.m. Singapore time, according
to data from PVM Oil Associates Ltd., a London-based broker.
This crack spread, a measure of refining profit, was the
narrowest since the Shell fire broke out. It was $16.22 before
the blaze.  The Singapore Civil Defence Force, which battled the fire
for more than 30 hours, said it has withdrawn all remaining
personnel from the island as its support is “no longer
required.” An investigation is still ongoing, it said in the e-
mailed statement yesterday.  Fire Probe  Preliminary findings  showed the fire started at a pump
house as Shell prepared for maintenance work, according to
Singapore’s Manpower Ministry, which is probing the incident.  The refinery may be closed for at least two weeks,
estimated  Victor Shum , a senior principal at Purvin & Gertz
Inc., a consultant in Singapore. A complete shutdown may last
for as long as a month, Standard Chartered Plc said in a report
Oct. 4.  Pulau Bukom is about 5.5 kilometers (3.4 miles) from the
financial hub of Singapore,  Asia ’s biggest oil-trading, refining
and storage center. The blaze affected an area 150 meters (492
feet) by 50 meters, about the size of a soccer field.  The 50-year-old refinery includes a sulfur-recovery unit, a
hydro-desulfurizer and a high-vacuum unit that supplies a
hydrocracker, based on a Shell document from December 2009.
Pulau Bukom also houses a fluid catalytic cracker with a
capacity of 34,000 barrels a day, a 155,000 metric-ton-a-year
butadiene-extraction unit and an 800,000 ton-a-year ethylene
cracker complex.  Crude Supply  Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the world’s largest crude exporter,
agreed to cancel an October shipment to Shell’s refinery,
according to five people with knowledge of the matter. The
company, known as  Saudi Aramco , agreed to not ship one cargo of
2 million barrels of Arab Light crude, said one of the people.
The parties are discussing whether to cancel a second cargo, the
people said.  Shell’s ethylene cracker will also be shut as refinery
units feeding it were taken offline after the fire, according to
a person with direct knowledge of the matter, who asked not to
be identified as the information is confidential.  The company operates a 750,000 ton-a-year mono-ethylene
glycol unit on neighboring Jurong Island, where refineries
belonging to Exxon Mobil Corp. and Singapore Refining Co., a
joint venture between Chevron Corp. and Singapore Petroleum Co.,
are located.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Gordon  at   pgordon6@bloomberg.net  