-- 
Shuaa Names Former Credit Suisse MENA Head Philipp as CEO

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 
2011-10-06T13:52:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/shuaa-capital-names-michael-philipp-as-chief-executive-officer.html
Shuaa Capital PSC (SHUAA) , the investment
bank controlled by Dubai’s ruler, named former  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  board member Michael Philipp as chief executive officer
effective immediately. He replaces Sameer Al Ansari.  Before joining Shuaa as a board member on Oct. 2, Philipp
was a member of the group executive board of Credit Suisse Group
from 2005 to 2008, Shuaa said in an e-mailed statement today. He
was previously chairman and CEO of Credit Suisse  Europe , Middle
East and  Africa . Philipp held several positions at Deutsche Bank
AG between 1995 and 2002, including head of its asset management
unit.  “The appointment comes at a time of strength and
opportunity for Shuaa,” the Dubai-based bank said in the
statement. “Michael will be instrumental in accelerating our
revenue enhancement program, executing our growth strategy and
enhancing our delivery of performance for clients and
shareholders.”  Shuaa, the  United Arab Emirates ’ largest investment bank,
has reshuffled its staff over the past year and eliminated jobs
as it sought to cut costs after it was affected by a global
economic slowdown. The bank appointed Sheikh Maktoum Hasher  Al Maktoum  as chairman in May and said that month it would
eliminate 39 jobs as it sought to cut costs.  Shihabi Leaves  The bank’s head of brokerage and research Walid Shihabi has
also left the company, Shuaa said in a separate statement today.
The “day-to-day operations” will continue to be managed by
Fozan Al Mofleh, General Manager of Shuaa Securities LLC, it
said.  Shihabi rejoined Shuaa in July 2010 as head of Shuaa
Securities after leaving the bank the previous year. He replaced
Amer Halawi as the head of research in April. Former CEO Ansari
joined the bank in 2009 and was previously head of Dubai
International Capital LLC.  Shuaa reported a profit of 600,000 dirhams ($163,000) in
the second quarter after two consecutive quarterly losses amid
political turmoil in the  Middle East . The company is expected to
report third-quarter results next month. The shares advanced 3.2
percent to 80 fils in Dubai trading today, trimming the loss
over the past year to 28 percent.  The bank’s “cost and income ratios” are expected to
improve “dramatically” over the next four years,  Jaap Meijer ,
head of banks research at HC Securities, wrote in an e-mailed
report today.  “For Shuaa, this is due to gradual normalization of its
revenue, which is currently under sharp pressure due to trading
results and investment losses, and further cost
cutting,” he said.  Dubai Banking Group PJSC took control of Shuaa in August
2009 with a 48.4 percent stake and replaced Iyad Duwaji as CEO
with Al Ansari.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  