-- 
Slovak SaS Party Makes Compromise Offer to End EFSF Dispute

-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k   a n d   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-10-06T18:01:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/slovak-sas-party-says-has-offer-to-unblock-divide-pass-efsf-1-.html
Slovakia’s Freedom and Solidarity
party, known as SaS, has proposed a compromise in which it would
agree with its three partners in the ruling coalition on an
overhaul of the euro area’s temporary bailout mechanism.  The partners need time to evaluate the offer, Richard Sulik, the SaS leader, told reporters in Bratislava today
without elaborating on the proposal. It calls for creating a
committee in Slovakia that would decide on any disbursement of
funds from the European Financial Stability Facility, said Bela Bugar, an official from the coalition’s Most party.  “They are reverting to our original proposal,” Bugar told
reporters today. “Creating a committee? Yes. The question is
what would be its composition?”  If approved by the ruling coalition, the proposal would
heal a rift in Prime Minister  Iveta Radicova ’s bloc over a key
element in the European Union’s plan to prevent the debt crisis
from spreading. The Slovak row risks sinking the EU package,
which needs the unanimous consent of the 17 euro-sharing
countries to come into force. Malta and the Netherlands are also
yet to approve passage of the facility.  Slovak lawmakers are set to vote on the legislation on Oct.
11. Smer, the largest opposition party, has said it won’t vote
for the package, leaving Radicova, of the Slovak Democratic and
Christian Union, to rely on the SaS to win approval for it.  Veto Possible  The SaS plan calls for creating a committee with
representatives of all parliamentary parties, each of whom would
have the right to veto disbursement of money to individual
countries seeking help from the bailout fund, the Sme newspaper
reported.  The Sas has also made its backing for an enhanced bailout
fund conditional on the rejection of Slovakia’s participation in
its permanent replacement, the European Stability Mechanism,
which is scheduled to come into force in 2013, according to Sme.  The enhanced powers of the 440 billion-euro ($590 billion)
EFSF were approved at a July 21 meeting of European leaders in
Brussels. The measures would allow the fund to buy the debt of
stressed euro-area nations, aid troubled banks in the region and
offer credit lines to governments. The EFSF’s current role is to
sell bonds to finance rescue loans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Laca  in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 