-- 
SNB Foreign Currency Reserves Climb to Record

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-10-06T07:47:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/snb-foreign-currency-reserves-climb-to-record.html
The Swiss central bank’s currency
holdings rose to a  record  last month after policy makers imposed
a franc cap to help exporters and fight deflation threats.  The reserves, calculated according to standards by the
 International Monetary Fund , jumped to 282.4 billion francs
($305 billion) at the end of September from 253.4 billion francs
in the previous month, the Zurich-based  Swiss National Bank  said
on its website today.  SNB President Philipp Hildebrand has pledged to defend the 
franc ceiling of 1.20 versus the euro with the “utmost
determination” by purchasing “unlimited quantities” of
currencies if needed.  Alexander Koch , an economist at  UniCredit
SpA (UCG)  in Munich, said any worsening of the euro-region’s debt
crisis would force policy makers into “massive purchases.”  “The latest increase in foreign-currency reserves does not
imply that the SNB had to purchase euros to a large extent,”
Koch said in an e-mailed note today. “It cannot, however, be
ruled out that the market will still test the minimum  exchange
rate  in the coming weeks and months.”  The franc depreciated after the report, trading at 1.2375
versus the euro at 9:45 a.m. in  Frankfurt , down 0.4 percent on
the day. It was at 92.77 centimes versus the dollar.  Switzerland’s currency, considered a haven in times of
turmoil, appreciated to a record 1.00749 against the euro on
Aug. 9 amid speculation euro-area governments would be unable to
contain the debt crisis. The franc hasn’t strengthened beyond
1.20 per euro since the limit was imposed.  Today’s figures include both changes in foreign-currency
swaps as well as increases in currency holdings as a result of
direct franc sales, making it impossible to calculate the amount
spent on intervention.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ; 