-- 
Soaring Farmland Prices in U.S. Midwest Bring Fed Scrutiny of Rural Banks

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-10-06T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/soaring-farmland-prices-in-u-s-midwest-bring-fed-scrutiny-of-rural-banks.html
When regulators come knocking at the
Bank of Newman Grove,  Nebraska , inquiring about loan risks,
Chairman Jeffrey Gerhart has a “ stress test ” ready to show how
his portfolio would fare if rural land prices dropped 25 percent.
Or 50 percent. Or 75 percent.  “I hope it’s not going to go to heck in a handbag out here,
but this allows us to look at those worst-case scenarios,” said
Gerhart, a fourth-generation banker in the 800-person town two
hours west of Omaha, deep in the heart of Nebraska’s corn and
soybean belt. He began stress testing his bank’s assets, about
90 percent of which are agricultural, in the last two years
after prodding from staffers at the Federal Reserve Bank of
 Kansas City .  Farmland prices in Nebraska rose 30 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, according to a  survey  by the Kansas
City Fed, driven by soaring farm income from elevated
agriculture commodity prices and record-low interest rates.
That’s the high end of increases in cropland valuations of 8
percent or more throughout the region stretching from Oklahoma
to  North Dakota  and from Nebraska to Michigan, according to
surveys by three Federal Reserve banks. The Fed banks -- Kansas
City, Chicago and  Minneapolis  -- oversee about three-quarters of
the nation’s farm banks.  Regulators and bankers like Gerhart are trying to use
smarter policies and better information to prevent this asset
price surge from forming what Yale economist Robert Shiller
called his “dark-horse bubble candidate for the next decade.”  Lending Standards  Examiners at the regional Fed banks and the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. are scrutinizing the lending standards,
concentration levels, and loan documentation and risk management
practices at the country’s 2,144 farm banks. Risks that could
curb the frothy farmland prices include a punishing drought in
some states and volatile global commodity markets that could
plunge and strip away crop income.  Low  interest rates  pose another threat, former Kansas City
Fed President  Thomas Hoenig  has warned. Hoenig dissented against
all eight decisions of the  Federal Open Market Committee  last
year, citing concern that an “extended period” of near-zero
interest rates could lead to a “build-up of future imbalances”
such as asset bubbles, and create risks to “financial
stability.”  Shiller’s warning has the Fed on guard, based on interviews
with Fed regulators, economists and policy makers. His
prediction of a national housing bubble in a 2005 revised
edition of his book “Irrational Exuberance” proved prescient.
Regulators missed the risks in residential and commercial real
estate that led to a financial crisis, the longest and deepest
recession since the Great Depression, 9.1 percent unemployment
and nearly 400  bank failures  since 2008.  New Tools  That concern affects farm bankers like Gerhart, who employ
new tools to help assess risk. “Stress testing is the buzzword
of the last couple years,” said Gerhart, who evaluates how his
assets would perform in a downturn using a bank lending software
package from WebEquity Solutions in Omaha, Nebraska. Gerhart’s
tests show that if land prices dropped 25 percent or 50 percent
his bank’s loans should not be negatively affected. A 75 percent
drop would “have an impact,” he said.  The risks of a farmland bubble have been highlighted in a
series of sessions held by regulators this year. The Farm Credit
Administration hosted a roundtable in February. The FDIC
sponsored a “Don’t Bet the Farm Symposium” in March. In July
the Kansas City Fed organized a conference on “Recognizing Risk
in Global Agriculture.”  Land Prices  Attendees at the Kansas City conference included officials
from the FDIC, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture , the Office of
the Comptroller of the Currency, Farm Credit Administration, and
the Federal Reserve banks of Minneapolis,  Chicago , Dallas and
the Fed’s Board of Governors. The group considered questions
like what would happen if crop prices fell by half, if
government subsidies for agriculture or ethanol disappeared, or
if land prices tumbled by 30 percent or more.  “It’s not that we think this is going to be the most
likely outcome,” Jason Henderson, the Kansas City Fed’s lead
agricultural economist, said in an interview. “It’s a
discussion of the black swans and fat tails -- the low
probability events that catch people off guard.”  Henderson runs the Kansas City Fed’s Omaha branch and leads
several of the Fed’s efforts to track the rural economy. He has
encouraged supervisors across the central bank’s system to
monitor the capitalization rate of farmland, or the income from
land divided by its capital cost.  ‘Future of Agriculture’  “Are they going to resist that temptation of low interest
rates and strong incomes and keep leverage low?” he said.
“It’s the next couple of years that are going to be key to
determining that future of agriculture.”  Soybean prices at $11.64 a bushel and corn at $6.06 a bushel,
though lower than in August, remain above their decade-long
averages of $8.31 a bushel and $3.27 a bushel respectively. The
Department of Agriculture said Aug. 30 that farm income will
jump 31 percent this year to a record $103.6 billion.  These estimates were made even with drought conditions in
much of southern Kansas,  Oklahoma  and  Texas , the three biggest
U.S. growers of hard, red winter wheat used to make bread. The
states have had less than half of normal rainfall in the past 90
days, National Weather Service data show.  The Fed’s  Beige Book , an anecdotal survey of economic
conditions released on Sept. 7, reported that “farmland values
rose further” in several districts even as “harsh summer
weather strained agricultural activity.”  Demand for Food  The growth in demand for food, spurred by the rising middle
class in  China ,  India  and other emerging markets, is likely to
continue. Even with signs of a slowing economy in the U.S. and
globally, the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization
said overall food prices in August were only 2.8 percent below
their peak in February.  Consequently farmland prices are booming, according to
regional Fed surveys. Values were 20 percent higher in the
second quarter than a year ago in the district of the  Kansas 
City Fed, which oversees 614 agriculture banks. The Chicago Fed,
which oversees 538 banks, reported a 17 percent increase for the
same period in its district, the most since the 1970s. Non-
irrigated farmland in the Minneapolis Fed district, which
oversees 393 banks, increased 13.9 percent.  By comparison, at the peak of the housing bubble, real
estate prices were rising 17 percent year over year, according
to the S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities.  Fed Policy  Hoenig cited Fed interest-rate policy as being “an
important factor” in the runup in farmland prices during an
interview last month.  “Certainly we have had an increase in ag prices of some
significance,” he said. “The other thing that is affecting
land values is long-term interest rates are at historic lows and
what we call the cap rates or discount rates on this land are
also at historic lows and your ability to expand, to borrow
against land you may already own, has facilitated the demand for
land and accelerated this boom.”  Hoenig, who stepped down Oct. 1, joined the Kansas City Fed
in 1973 as an economist in the banking supervision area, just as
farm prices climbed and then collapsed. According to data from
the Chicago Fed, land values soared throughout the 1970s, rising
as much as 28 percent in 1976.  In the early 1980s the bubble burst and land prices notched
annual drops of more than 10 percent in four of the next five
years. The aftermath forced thousands of farms into foreclosure,
pushed small towns to the brink of depression and brought down
347 banks in the Kansas City Fed’s district from 1982 to 1992.  Bubble and Bust  Memories of the 1970s bubble and bust have made regulators
and bankers more cautious this time, said David B. Oppedahl, a
business economist at the Chicago Fed who compiles the bank’s
AgLetter. “It just doesn’t seem like it’s the same set of
circumstances because the farmers remember that time period, and
lived it, and so have a lot of the bankers and regulators,” he
said. “You have some experience that is helping to keep people
from going too far from what they can afford to do in their
plans.”  In a  survey  at the end of 2010, lenders reported to the
Kansas City Fed that loans were between 50 percent and 90
percent of the value of the land, with an average of just over
70 percent. Higher loan-to-value ratios pose greater risk to
lenders. At the peak of the housing bubble, by comparison, the
National Association of Realtors reported in 2006 that more than
40 percent of borrowers put no money down for loans, a loan-to-
value ratio of 100 percent.  Regulators Overzealous  On occasion bankers have found the regulators to be over-
zealous, said John Blanchfield, who runs the ABA Center for
Agricultural and Rural Banking at the  American Bankers
Association .  “The FDIC is convinced there’s a bubble and they’re not
going to miss this bubble, by God,” he said. Regulators are
concerned about banks’ concentrations of agriculture loans, he
said. “How are these bankers supposed to respond to that? Every
direction in 500 miles from their bank is corn fields.”  Blanchfield notes the “manic” tone of some stories about
agriculture, such as a July 10 article in Time magazine titled
“Want to Make More than a Banker? Become a Farmer!”  “When I saw that I said ‘the farm boom is over’ because
now Time is reporting it,” he said, referring to a common
belief that favorable coverage in mainstream magazines can
signal that an investment or asset has peaked.  Whatever May Come  Far from Wall Street’s gyrations and  Washington ’s impasses,
Newman Grove’s Gerhart believes he is prepared for whatever may
come for the $35 million bank.  “We’re used to prices going up and down like a Boone
County road, a county west of us that’s pretty hilly,” he said.
The new stress testing “better educates the banker, the
borrower and the examiner so we are all on the same page.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  