-- 
Solyndra’s Bid for Fresh Guarantee Never Seriously Considered, Chu Says

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-10-06T19:38:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/solyndra-s-bid-for-fresh-guarantee-never-seriously-considered-chu-says.html
The U.S. Energy Department never
seriously considered providing a second loan guarantee for
failed California solar-panel maker Solyndra LLC, Energy
Secretary Steven Chu said.  “It was not ever in serious contention,” Chu said at an
event in  Washington  today.  Solyndra, which filed for bankruptcy protection Sept. 6 and
had its Fremont, California, offices raided by the FBI two days
later, applied for a $469 million U.S. loan guarantee a week
after winning U.S. backing for a $535 million loan in September
2009, according to a filing to the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission three months later. The second guarantee would have
helped finance an expansion of a factory the company hadn’t yet
built.  The Energy Department informed Solyndra other applicants
were being considered, said Chu, who attended the factory’s
groundbreaking ceremony in September 2009.  Chu defended U.S. support for renewable energy loan
guarantees.  “It’s very important to not say after one bad loan that,
’Oh, time to change path, this is no good,’” he said today.  Other countries are supporting clean energy as a way to
become more efficient and competitive globally, Chu said.  “If we’re the last to recognize this, then we will be the
importers,” he said.  E-mails released this week as part of a congressional
investigation into Solyndra’s loan guarantee showed officials
from the White House Office of Management and Budget worried the
second guarantee request was imminent.  “I’ve been told we should expect to see that project soon
for conditional commitment,” a budget office official wrote in
an April 8, 2010, e-mail.  Another official said in an e-mail: “Possible to close and
default on one before closing on a second??? Could be a
record.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  