-- 
Solyndra Sought Second Guarantee a Week After Getting the First

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-10-06T16:09:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/solyndra-sought-second-guarantee-after-first.html
Solyndra LLC, the failed California
solar-panel maker, applied for a second U.S. loan guarantee a
week after receiving its first as it sought to expand a factory
it hadn’t built yet.  The company received a $535 million federal loan guarantee
on Sept. 3, 2009, and broke ground for its so-called Fab 2
facility the next day, at an event that Energy Secretary Steven Chu attended. Seven days later, the company requested $469
million for more construction and equipment at Fab 2 in a bid to
cut costs of its tubular panels by increasing production,
according to a December 2009 filing to the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  The company and the department “mutually agreed that the
application should not receive further consideration” in
October 2010,  Damien LaVera , an Energy Department spokesman,
said in an e-mail today. “The department was not poised to
approve a second loan application.”  E-mails released this week as part of a congressional
investigation into Solyndra’s loan guarantee said officials from
the Office of Management and Budget worried the second guarantee
request was imminent.  “I’ve been told we should expect to see that project soon
for conditional commitment,” a budget office official wrote in
an April 8, 2010, e-mail.  Another official said in an e-mail: “Possible to close and
default on one before closing on a second??? Could be a
record.”  Solyndra Plans  Solyndra had forecast that the next phase of its factory
would cost $642 million, which it planned to raise through the
second loan guarantee and by selling shares to the public,
according to the December filing.  By the time of the decision to drop the application,
Solyndra’s financial problems were becoming clearer. It had
amended its  SEC filing  in March 2010 to include a warning from
its auditor that it might have to cease operating and in June
had withdrawn its planned initial public offering.  In December 2010, Solyndra violated the terms of its $535
million award by failing to set aside the first of six $5
million payments for a  reserve fund .  The administration then restructured the loan, which placed
Solyndra’s debt to the government behind $75 million in fresh
money from outside investors, a decision that congressional
Republicans have criticized. Energy Department officials said
the agreement was a last-ditch effort to save the company.  FBI Raid  Solyndra filed for bankruptcy protection on Sept. 6. Two
days later the FBI raided the company’s Fremont, California,
offices as part of an investigation into possible accounting
fraud.  Matt Rogers , an Energy Department adviser on stimulus
projects, said in a May 24, 2010, e-mail to Rod O’Connor, who
was then Chu’s chief of staff, that Solyndra faced economic
challenges, including falling silicon prices that benefited
rival companies and declining demand in  Europe  for solar panels.  Rogers also said the company had been counting on “an
energy bill to pass,” including a renewable-energy standard,
“to ensure adequate U.S. market size.”  Rogers said Solyndra would face problems in the “18-24
month window, but the company should be going strong into the
fall with their new facilities on line.”  House Republicans  expanded an eight-month investigation
into the loan guarantee yesterday, demanding all communications
about Solyndra among White House officials since Obama’s 2009
inauguration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  