-- 
Soros Loses Case Against French Insider-Trading Conviction

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-10-06T11:03:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/soros-loses-human-rights-appeal-against-insider-trading-case.html
Billionaire investor  George Soros 
lost a challenge to his 2002 insider trading conviction, with
the  European Court of Human Rights  saying French market
regulations were clear enough to hold him responsible.  France didn’t violate Soros’s rights in punishing him
criminally for trading on inside information about Societe
Generale SA in spite of the market regulator’s conclusion that
its rules were unclear, the Strasbourg, France-based court said.  “Soros was a famous institutional investor, well-known to
the business community and a participant in major financial
projects,” the court said in a statement about its  ruling . “As
a result of his status and experience, he could not have been
unaware that his decision to invest” risked violating insider-
trading laws, and given “there had been no comparable
precedent, he should have been particularly prudent.”  Soros, 81, was convicted in 2002 of  insider trading  and
ordered to repay 2.2 million euros ($2.9 million) he’d made from
the share purchase and subsequent sale after a Paris court found
he’d acted with the knowledge that the bank might be a takeover
target. While prosecutors filed criminal charges, French stock
market regulators didn’t pursue Soros, saying insider-trading
laws were too vague to determine whether he’d broken them.  ‘Inconceivable’ Verdict  “It is inconceivable to expect that the citizen has a
better understanding of the law than the authority in charge”
of market regulation, Ron Soffer, Soros’s lawyer, said today.
“The opinion of the regulatory authority is an irrebuttable
presumption as to the lack of clarity of the law.”  Soros will appeal the four-to-three ruling to the court’s
Grand Chamber, Soffer said.  As part of its program to shed state-owned companies, the
French government sold  Societe Generale (GLE)  in June 1987 at 407
French francs (then $63) a share. After a stock market crash a
year later, the shares had fallen to 260 francs. In September
1988, French financier Georges Pebereau sounded out investors
including an adviser to Soros about joining him in building a
stake in Societe Generale.  While Soros declined to take part in that operation, that
month his Quantum Endowment Fund spent $50 million to buy
160,000 shares of Societe Generale as well as shares in three
other companies the French government had sold and whose stock
had tumbled.  Soros Stake  Pebereau’s takeover effort failed when Societe Generale
management refused and shares surged. Soros had sold off the
stake by November, he said during his initial 2002 trial, after
he became convinced during an October trip to Paris that the
attempt was driven by the desire of a newly elected French
government to place allies on the boards of companies that the
previous government had sold.  The Human Rights court called the insider-trading rules at
the time of Soros’s investment in Societe Generale “quite
general” and said Soros was the first in  France  to be
prosecuted for “that type of offence.” Still the court said it
wasn’t persuaded a subsequent change in the rules was directly
related to the Soros case.  Soros, best known for making $1 billion in 1992 betting the
 Bank of England  would be forced to devalue the pound, turned to
the human rights tribunal in December 2006 after he lost his
appeal to the Cour de Cassation, France’s top court, which
quashed the fine while upholding the conviction.  Soros said in July he would return money to outside
investors in his $25.5 billion Soros Fund Management LLC by the
end of the year and focus on managing assets solely for himself
and his family.  Soros has given away more than $8 billion in the last 30
years to promote democracy, foster free speech, improve
education and fight poverty around the world, he said in a
recent essay. He announced on Oct. 3 that he would give $27.4
million over the next five years to the Millennium Villages
program, a United Nations project to eradicate poverty in
 Africa .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 