-- 
Soros Says Europe, U.S. Turmoil Reminds Him of Soviet Collapse

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-10-06T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/soros-says-europe-u-s-turmoil-reminds-him-of-soviet-collapse.html
Billionaire investor  George Soros 
said the disruption to global financial markets since 2008 has
implications for Europe and the U.S. that remind him of the
final years of the  Soviet Union .  “Something similar is happening in the West,” Soros, 81,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Eye to Eye with
Francine Lacqua,” airing today. “You had a financial crisis
where the market did actually collapse, but it was kept alive by
the authorities. People don’t realize that the system has
actually collapsed.”  The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index has plunged 15 percent since July on
concerns that the default of a European nation could lead to a
contagion that spreads to banks throughout the region and in the
U.S. Soros, whose $25 billion Quantum hedge fund gained about 20
percent a year on average since 1969, said he’s not certain how
to fix  Europe ’s debt problems or how to navigate financial
markets.  “That is not so easy,” he said in the interview in
 London . “There is a lot of confusion, and I am also confused.”  Soros, who was born in  Hungary , promoted opposition to
 Russia ’s communist regime before it collapsed in 1991. In 1993,
he founded the Open Society Institute to help formerly communist
countries make the transition to democracy.  The biggest mistake governments made in responding to 2008
credit freeze was failing to approve rules that would regulate
banks and other financial firms across the globe, Soros said.
While markets have become integrated, individual nations
continue to set their own rules, which has allowed
“deregulation to spread like a virus,” he said.  Returning Investors’ Money  “Regulation is very difficult and we haven’t solved it at
all,” he said. “We are very early in the process and we are
not making much progress.”  Soros’s hedge fund decided in July to return money to
outside investors, meaning it will only manage assets for him
and his family. The move will end an investing career that
spanned more than four decades and gained Soros international
acclaim in 1992 after he made $1 billion betting that the  Bank
of England  would be forced to devalue the pound.  Soros, in the interview, said he now spends all his time on
philanthropy, describing it as a “full-time job.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in 東京 at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  