-- 
Souped-Up $80,000 Jeep Ascends Desert Roads to Telluride Snow

-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-10-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/souped-up-80-000-jeep-ascends-desert-roads-to-telluride-snow.html
If you dream of road tripping across
the American Southwest, forget about  Route 66 . The Mother Road
is okay, but the best of the mountains and desert are found on
trails that would rip out the oil pan from under a rental.  For a go-where-you-please exploration, you want a Jeep.
Tough, American, iconic. I’m reminded of this as I rumble up the
path to the house where I grew up, a dirt track so rocky you
need a 4X4 to reach it.  My hometown of Kirtland, New Mexico, has a single stoplight
to occasion a pause through the high desert on the way to the
Four Corners monument, where New Mexico,  Utah ,  Arizona  and
Colorado meet. Out here, off-roading is just called driving.  Luckily, my prodigal ride isn’t an ordinary Jeep Wrangler.
It’s an $81,284 mega-Jeep from Missoula, Montana-based  American
Expedition Vehicles , which converts new and old Jeeps into
extreme off-road bruisers. Around since 1997, it takes about 250
custom orders a year.  My test specimen started life as $36,000 four-door, 2011-
model-year Rubicon. The extra $45,000 includes a custom
suspension, lift kit, winch and specially outfitted drivetrain.
It sits loftily off the ground upon 35-inch BF Goodrich mud
tires so large they could fit a tractor. A running start helps
to vault into the aerie-cum-cockpit.  The 6.4-liter Hemi V-8 with 465 horsepower and 465 pound-
feet of torque is an option not available in the regular
Chrysler product. The privilege costs a whopping $28,000, but
makes other Jeep owners coo in appreciation.  Mongolian Sky  I picked the AEV up in Albuquerque, where the odometer
rolled over to 15,000 miles as I ambled northwest toward
Kirtland, a 180-mile drive. I’ve found that only Mongolia’s Gobi
desert compares to the elemental blue of  New Mexico ’s sky. I
took off the roof panels to better appreciate the clean, sweet
light.  Despite the high center of gravity and knobby tires, the
AEV corners in a flat manner and rides comfortably. The V-8’s
extra power is welcome on high-altitude mountain passes, but the
observed gas mileage of 13 highway, 10.5 off-road, is not. I’d
already burned $200 worth of 91 octane.  My 65-year-old dad, John, and I drove into the desert mesas
where our family once ran cattle. Winding up arroyos, or dry
washes, we headed toward a distant rock outcropping where my
granddad, also John, chiseled his name while astride a horse
sometime in the 1940s. Prairie dogs chirped at us. The AEV
easily crunched over dirt escarpments and rock gardens.  Grazing Elk  The next morning we threw in a jack, sleeping bags and
shovel, and struck north to  Colorado ’s Uncompahgre National
Forest and the San Juan mountains. Through the city of Durango,
no longer so sleepy, past fields of grazing elk, and to
Silverton.  Dad and I have done this type of trip before, and we were
soon on a squiggling, perilously narrow road over Engineer Pass,
well above the tree line, where oxygen is scant and the wind
bites. You have to train your eyes to accept the vast distances,
the brutal beauty.  This is Jeep country and we passed a dozen kindred
vehicles. The difference is most of those owners spend their
free weekends bolting on custom parts. The AEV is a one-stop-
shopping affair, for the kind of driver who prizes free time
over cash.  Unlike, say, a new  Land Rover , Jeeps remain fairly low-
tech. There are no hill-descent functions or electronic terrain
selections for mud and ruts. Your most important tools are high-
and low-range 4X4 and good judgment.  Dirt Streets  “This rig can go anywhere,” my father said appreciatively
as we rolled into the village of Ouray, which still has dirt
side streets. “I love it.” Of course he wasn’t paying for gas.
My tab so far: $306.  The next morning, on Imogene Pass from Ouray to Telluride,
we were rebuffed by a thick accumulation of new snow at the
summit. Reluctantly turning around, we instead made for a former
mine, called Mountain Top, which is aptly named. The road was no
wider than our vehicle, with blind corners and no room for
mistakes.  Creeping along, I hoped for no oncoming off-roaders.
Somebody would have to reverse, which could prove to be lethally
unfortunate.  Reaching the lonely mine without incident, we explored a
decrepit bunkhouse with buckled wood floors and coiled, rusted
bedsprings. Rock walls rose on all sides around us, sharp spires
slicing into a pale sky.  The site was both beautiful and terrible in its remoteness.
There would be thick snow here, too, very soon. I couldn’t
imagine being socked in for the winter like those former miners.  Two days later, back in  Albuquerque , the AEV’s odometer
rolled to 16,000 as I put it into park. One thousand glorious
miles and $392 of gas charges. Worth every cent.  AEV Jeep Wrangler at a Glance  Engine: 6.4-liter V-8 Hemi with 465 horsepower and 465  pound-feet of torque.  Transmission: Five-speed automatic.  Gas mileage per gallon: Observed 13 highway, 10.5 off-road.  Price as tested: $81,284.  Best feature: The massive tires which can roll over any  obstacle.  Worst feature: You’ll need to stop at every gas station  along the remote way.  Target buyer: The 4X4 fanatic who has to get to the top of  the mountain.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 