-- 
Southwest Sees $1 Billion Atlanta Revenue Gain on AirTran Merger

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-10-06T12:35:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/southwest-s-kelly-sees-1-billion-atlanta-revenue-gain-after-airtran-deal.html
Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  expects to add
as much as $1 billion in new annual revenue in Atlanta, home to
the world’s busiest airport, as it revamps the hub acquired in
the purchase of  AirTran Holdings Inc. (AAI)   Service will shift to focus on larger cities and more
direct flights, because those customers are more profitable than
passengers who make connections, Chief Executive Officer  Gary Kelly  said yesterday in an interview. Daily departures will fall
about 13 percent to 175 as some smaller markets are cut, he
said.  Making Atlanta mirror Southwest’s system will boost sales
there by $750 million to $1 billion, Kelly said. It’s the first
time Dallas-based Southwest has shared such detail, and Kelly
said the projections are already part of the airline’s $400
million target for so-called merger synergies.  “We’ll unwind the hub and operate a typical Southwest
point-to-point schedule,” Kelly,  56, said in Atlanta. “You’d
rather have two nonstop passengers than one connecting
passenger. AirTran yields a certain revenue per mile flown, and
Southwest gets a premium to that.”  For 2011’s first quarter, the last full period before the
AirTran deal was finished in May, Southwest reaped 11.99 cents
for each passenger flown a mile, compared with 10.43 cents for
AirTran.  Southwest, the largest discount carrier, didn’t serve
Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport before buying
 Orlando , Florida-based AirTran. The airlines must operate
separately until U.S. regulators grant them a joint certificate,
probably early next year.  Baggage Fees  AirTran policies such as business-class cabins and fees to
check bags and change tickets boosted its total revenue from
each so-called passenger mile to 11.56 cents in the first
quarter, while Southwest’s revenue on a comparable basis was
12.66 cents. Kelly said Southwest will still gain revenue
because it can adjust fares with greater precision based on seat
availability and demand.  “We’re going to attract more business travelers because we
don’t have the fees, and I believe it will be a net plus,”
Kelly said in the interview at Atlanta’s Stone Mountain Park
where Southwest was hosting a party for thousands of employees.  About 35 percent to 40 percent of Southwest passengers fly
on business, compared with about 20 percent for AirTran, he
said. About 75 percent of Southwest passengers fly nonstop.
AirTran’s mix at Atlanta was 35 percent local and 65 percent
connecting travelers.  Passenger Loss  Some loss of passengers who want to fly business class is
inevitable, Kelly said.  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , the world’s
second-largest carrier, is the market leader in Atlanta with 75
percent of passengers.  “You never capture everything, but that is not a material
amount of business” that might be lost by eliminating AirTran’s
business class, Kelly said.  Southwest and AirTran aren’t yet able to share codes on
flights, which would allow passengers to book on either carrier
on the same itinerary, because the technology and training isn’t
in place yet. The airlines plan to code share in 2012’s first
half, he said.  Transition plans are under way to mesh the carriers’
differing policies on luggage fees, boarding procedures,
business class cabins and assigned seats, he said.  High fuel prices are forcing Southwest to be “more
tactical” in its approach to smaller AirTran destinations,
Kelly said. AirTran dropped four cities, including Asheville,
 North Carolina , and  Newport News ,  Virginia , because of lack of
demand before the Southwest purchase was completed.  Southwest managers are still studying which AirTran cities
and flights will be kept, and those plans may change in coming
months depending on fuel and the economy, he said. Jet fuel rose
11 percent this year before today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 