-- 
Spain Makes Banks Pay for Cajas’ Overhaul to Shield Budget

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-10-06T15:09:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/spain-makes-banks-pay-for-cajas-overhaul-to-shield-budget-1-.html
Spain  will make commercial lenders
assume losses generated from the overhaul of savings banks
through a decree law shielding public finances from the cost.  Spain’s industry-financed deposit guarantee funds will be
united into one entity that bears the losses that may arise when
lenders seized by the state are sold. The combined facility,
which will still be responsible for backstopping deposits, has
6.59 billion euros ($8.75 billion) in equity, Finance Minister
 Elena Salgado  said today.  “The financial sector will assume, in their entirety, the
costs that may arise from the clean-up and restructuring of the
financial sector,” Salgado told reporters in Madrid. “We’re
doing it now because it’s now that we perceive the possibility
that the process could produce losses.”  The measure will shield the  budget deficit  from bank losses
as the Socialist government struggles to meet its pledge to cut
the euro region’s third-largest shortfall. The changes will be
passed by decree while Parliament is closed just six weeks
before a general election that polls show the ruling Socialists
will lose.  Protecting Finances  “It’s a way to protect the government finances from more
losses in the banking system because basically there’s no more
money,” Ricardo Wehrhahn, a partner at Roland Berger Strategy
Consultants in Madrid, said in a telephone interview. “There
are some significant funds in the deposit funds and so the
government is looking at those resources.”  Spain’s bank-rescue fund, the FROB, took over three more
lenders on Sept. 30 that failed to meet a deadline to reach new
 capital requirements , bringing to six the number of institutions
the state has seized. The Bank of Spain is trying to sell Caja
de Ahorros del Mediterraneo group, which it seized in July, by
the end of the year and Governor Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez
said last week the process may generate losses.  Salgado said the changes will be passed by decree and can
be ratified by Parliament’s permanent committee, which continues
to meet for urgent matters while the assembly is closed.  The Spanish Banking Association signaled its opposition to
using funds raised by commercial lenders’ contributions to pay
for losses created by savings banks. Until now, banks and cajas,
as the savings banks are known, each had their own deposit-
guarantee funds.  Different Funds  “The unification should treat appropriately the fact that
the banks’ and cooperative lenders’ deposit-guarantee fund have
raised an important amount of money (3.88 billion euros), which
it seems they now want to use for aid to the savings-bank
sector,” the association said in an e-mailed statement.  Commercial banks including Banco Santander SA and  Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  haven’t received state rescues.
Bailouts have focused on the cajas as the government has nudged
the unlisted, regional savings banks into becoming commercial
lenders and merging with others.  “It looks very tricky,” Wehrhahn said. “It’s a way to
finance the FROB but the FROB is a public entity and the
commercial banks are private and you shouldn’t really make them
pay.”  The FROB, created in 2009 with 9 billion euros of equity
and the ability to take on as much as 90 billion euros of debt,
said last week it would spend 7.55 billion euros to take over
Unnim, CatalunyaCaixa and Novacaixagalicia savings banks. That
comes on top of the 10 billion euros committed in a previous
round of recapitalizations via preference shares.  Elections  Spain’s Socialist government is fighting to reduce the
budget deficit to 6 percent of gross domestic product this year,
from 9.2 percent in 2010. Salgado reiterated today that goal is
“unconditional.”  The move comes before a Nov. 20 general election that polls
indicate the ruling Socialists will lose to the opposition
 People’s Party . Socialist candidate Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba, a
former deputy prime minister and friend of Salgado, has focused
on the banks in his campaign and pledged to create a levy on
them if he’s elected as well as increasing taxes on the wealthy.  The last local elections in May were marked by nationwide
protests against bank bailouts and austerity measures, and
Rubalcaba has said he is listening to the demands of the so-
called “indignant ones.” While Salgado said she spoke to the
PP about the measure, she offered no details on their views. No
one at the opposition party was immediately available to comment
today when contacted by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.netCraig  Stirling 