-- 
Spain Industrial Output Rises for First Time in Six Months

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-10-06T07:48:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/spain-industrial-output-rises-for-first-time-in-six-months-1-.html
Spanish industrial production
unexpectedly rose for the first time in six months in August,
backing up a prediction by Finance Minister Elena Salgado that
 Spain  won’t relapse into a recession.  Output at factories, refineries and mines adjusted for the
number of working days increased 0.3 percent from a year
earlier, after a revised 2.3 percent in July, the National
Statistics Institute in  Madrid  said in an e-mailed statement
today. Economists expected a 4.7 percent decline, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News Survey. Non-seasonally
adjusted output rose 0.6 percent from a year earlier.  Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero’s Socialist
government is counting on exports and tourism to support a
fragile recovery as the euro area’s highest unemployment rate
weighs on  consumer spending  and investment. Spain’s trade
deficit narrowed in July to its lowest level in 13 years as
exports surged and the number of foreign tourists hit a record
in August, providing a boost for the government is it tries to
spur the economy.  Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  yesterday said Spain won’t
fall back into a recession this year even as the Bank of Spain
says the economy showed “weakness” in the third quarter. The
August output increase was led by machinery and consumer goods,
said INE, which originally reported that production had declined
2.8 percent in July.  Hindering Growth  Declining demand in developed countries and the deepest
austerity measures in over three decades are undermining the
nation’s recovery. Growth slowed in the second quarter to 0.2
percent from 0.4 percent in the previous three months as the
country faces a 21 percent unemployment rate and the European
sovereign-debt crisis fuels rising borrowing costs.  The government, which faces a general election on Nov. 20
that polls indicate it may lose, aims to cut the deficit to 6
percent of gross domestic product this year from 9.2 percent in
2010, and Salgado said yesterday that goal takes “priority”
over growth in the “remaining months of the year.”  Funcas, the research arm of Spain’s savings-bank
association, forecasts the economy will “practically stagnate”
in the second half of this year, leaving the full-year growth
rate at 0.7 percent. The  International Monetary Fund  predicts an
expansion of 0.8 percent in 2011.  “We can expect weak growth in the second half, possibly
even slightly negative numbers in the last quarter or the first
months of 2012,” Jesus Castillo, an economist at Natixis in
Paris, said by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  