-- 
Steve Jobs’s Death Struck Like John Lennon, JFK Getting Shot, Wozniak Says

-- B y   A n a n d   K r i s h n a m o o r t h y   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 
2011-10-06T07:22:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/steve-jobs-s-death-struck-like-john-lennon-jfk-getting-shot-wozniak-says.html
Steve Wozniak , who started  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
with high-school friend  Steve Jobs  in a California garage more
than three decades ago, said news of his partner’s death struck
him just like the shootings of  John Lennon  and  John F. Kennedy .  “I’m just totally awestruck, a bit shocked, a bit
surprised,” Wozniak, 61, said in an interview today with
Bloomberg Television’s Susan Li on the “Asia Edge” program.
“I did not expect it. It felt a lot like you just heard that,
you know, John Lennon got shot, or JFK, or  Martin Luther King .”  Jobs, 56, who resigned as Apple’s chief executive officer
in August, died yesterday, the Cupertino, California-based
company said. He was diagnosed in 2003 with a neuroendocrine
tumor, a rare form of pancreatic cancer, and had a  liver
transplant  in 2009.  Wozniak teamed up with Jobs, whom he met in the early
1970s, and the two started working together on projects, with
Wozniak being the tech genius and Jobs the brash idea man. The
pair demonstrated the Apple I and Apple II personal computers at
gatherings of the informal Homebrew Computer Club in 1975.  ‘Strong Friendship’  “He was one of those cool guys,” Wozniak said. “He knew
technology, he understood it. We talked about the philosophies
of the day -- the counterculture was strong, the hippie
movement, words in songs -- and went to concerts together.  ‘‘It was a strong friendship. The technology was happening
on the side.’’  They founded Apple Computer on April 1, 1976. The company’s
first investor, Mike Markkula, bought a 33 percent stake for
$250,000 and later served as president and chairman.  Twelve months later, the company introduced the Apple II.
It was a hit and became the first widely used home computer.
Company sales reached $117 million in fiscal 1980, the year
Apple went public at $22 a share.  Jobs left the company in 1985 after a dispute with the
board and Chief Executive Officer John Sculley before returning
in 1996. Five years later, Apple introduced the iPod.  ‘‘I got to watch the whole growth in him,’’ Wozniak said.
‘‘Coming from a young kid to starting a company and having
success and trying to find ways to manage things and have his
own control and power. Going off from the company, coming back
very learned, knowledgeable about how to watch the operations.’’  ‘Normal Self Again’  The company dropped the word ‘‘computer’’ from its name in
2007 after entering the smartphone market with the iPhone. More
success came with the introduction of the iPad, which dominates
the global tablet-computer market with almost 75 percent market
share.  Burgeoning profits and record sales of phones, computers
and tablets helped Apple become the world’s most valuable
company for a time earlier this year. It remains the world’s
most valuable technology company, trumping long-time rival
Microsoft Corp.  ‘‘Steve, the last few times he talked to me, was having all
these strong reflections of those early days and how much they
meant and how much fun,” Wozniak said. “He would even say
things like, ‘Did you ever think this would happen?’  ‘‘‘Look how great, big Apple got as a technology company.’
He was really getting excited about these things. He was kind of
like his normal, young self again.’’  ‘Hard to Sleep’  Wozniak said his last conversation with Jobs scared him
because he could tell that his friend’s health wasn’t good.  ‘‘He sounded a little weak in the character and the voice
and the motivation,” Wozniak said. “I was a little bit scared
on the phone. He didn’t sound as strong as he did the
conversation before.”  Wozniak said he had “so many memories” of Jobs, who was
fired by Apple’s board in 1985 after a power struggle. Apple’s
purchase of NeXT software in 1997 brought Jobs back to the
company and he became a “confident manager” knowing what he
needed to do to make a profit, Wozniak said.  “And that’s what led to the great products,” he said.
“Most people are going to miss the great products. And they’ll
just see Steve in them forever.  ‘‘That’s why we’re stunned so much. It’s going to be hard
to sleep tonight.”  To contact the reporters on the story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy in Singapore at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 