-- 
Swiss Bid for ‘All-Encompassing’ Solution to Tax-Evasion Dispute With U.S.

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-10-06T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/swiss-bid-to-settle-u-s-tax-evasion-dispute-after-u-k-accord.html
Switzerland  will bid to use existing
treaties to resolve a dispute over tax evasion by Americans with
Swiss bank accounts and avert the risk of criminal prosecutions.  “We are aiming for an all-encompassing solution that will
apply to all the banks,” Finance Minister Eveline Widmer- Schlumpf said in an interview in the Swiss capital Bern,
commenting on negotiations with the U.S. “We don’t want to be
confronted with the same issues time and again.”  The government hopes to submit the results of talks with
the U.S. to lawmakers in the “foreseeable future,” Widmer-
Schlumpf said before signing an accord with the U.K. in  London 
yesterday. That deal, following a similar agreement with  Germany 
last month, introduces a levy on wealthy Britons holding
offshore accounts with Swiss private banks.  Switzerland, the world’s biggest center for offshore
wealth, is seeking settlements after agreeing in March 2009 to
meet international standards to avoid being blacklisted as a tax
haven by the  Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development . While the U.K. and German accords allow client
identities to remain secret, the U.S. is targeting Credit Suisse
Group AG and other Swiss banks with criminal investigations as
it cracks down on tax evasion.  “While major OECD partner countries like the U.K. and
Germany have been negotiating pernicious and weak settlements
with Switzerland on information exchange, the U.S. authorities
continue to apply robust pressure on Swiss banks,” the London-
based Tax Justice Network said earlier this week in a study that
ranked Switzerland at the top of a financial secrecy index.  Banks Targeted  Eight offshore banks are under federal grand jury
investigation for facilitating  tax evasion  by American citizens,
the U.S. Justice Department said last month. In 2009,
prosecutors charged UBS AG, the largest Swiss bank, with aiding
tax evasion by U.S. clients. UBS avoided prosecution by paying
$780 million, admitting it fostered tax evasion, and giving the
U.S. Internal Revenue Service data on more than 250 accounts. It
later turned over data on another 4,450 accounts.  “We had the same experience with UBS last year, and now
another 11 banks are being targeted,” Widmer-Schlumpf said in
the interview. “There is a certain risk of an indictment or
civil or criminal proceedings. We hope that won’t materialize
and it’s something we’re working hard to avoid.”  The U.S. has agreed to base the negotiations with
Switzerland on two existing double-taxation agreements, said
Widmer-Schlumpf. On Aug. 22, Swiss President Micheline Calmy-Rey
said the way U.S. tax authorities were seeking information from
Switzerland on alleged tax evasion by Americans was “legally
unacceptable.”  ‘Temporary Outflows’  Switzerland and the U.S. must agree on a tax deal that
complies with Swiss law, Patrick Odier, chairman of the  Swiss
Bankers Association , said last month.  The settlements with the U.K. and Germany may prompt some
wealthy clients to pull money from Swiss banks, said Widmer-
Schlumpf.  “There might be temporary outflows of funds,” she said.
“But anyone who withdraws assets and deposits them in another
country risks being monitored there and being subject to
administrative assistance proceedings.”  Under the accord announced on Aug. 24 and due to come into
force in 2013, Swiss banks will pay 500 million Swiss francs
($544 million) to the U.K. government to cover the failure by
their clients to disclose undeclared money in the past. The
banks will later be reimbursed from taxes paid by their
customers.  Withholding Tax  Swiss banks will levy a withholding tax of 48 percent on
interest income and 27 percent on  capital gains  earned by
Britons with offshore accounts, according to the two
governments. Revenue generated will go to the British Treasury,
while client identities remain secret.  The U.K. expects to raise more than 5 billion pounds ($8
billion) from the one-off levy.  To prevent new, undeclared funds from being deposited in
Switzerland, U.K. authorities can submit requests for
information that must state the name of the client, though not
necessarily the bank’s name, the  Finance Ministry  said. The
number of requests will be limited to 500 a year and so-called
fishing expeditions aren’t permissible.  “In the long run, the quality and the reliability of the
legal system should be the main reasons for attracting people
and not the option of stashing untaxed funds in Switzerland,”
said Widmer-Schlumpf.  Pilot Projects  The U.K. and German agreements are pilot projects, she
said.  “Several European countries as well as emerging market
nations are interested in them,” she said. “At present, we are
in discussions with them about technical details but there are
no official negotiations yet.”  Widmer-Schlumpf said the cap on the Swiss franc, introduced
on Sept. 6, is helping exporters.  “What we can see is that the measure has apparently been
effective and that exporters now have a certain degree of
security,” the finance minister said. “We hope that the franc
will weaken further.”  The Swiss central bank last month imposed a ceiling of 1.20
francs versus the euro to aid exporters and fight deflation
threats. The country’s currency had reached a record high of
1.0075 versus the euro on Aug. 9 as investors sought a safe
haven from the euro area fiscal crisis.  ‘Still Overvalued’  Still, “I also see that the export sector is having
problems as the Swiss franc is still overvalued,” Widmer-
Schlumpf said. “And the Swiss economy will continue to face
problems in the fourth quarter and the coming year.”  The government last month lowered its forecast for Swiss
economic growth. Gross domestic product will rise 1.9 percent
this year and 0.9 percent in 2012, it said, after previously
projecting 2.1 percent and 1.5 percent respectively.  Widmer-Schlumpf declined to comment on whether the central
bank should raise the cap on the franc or take other measures to
support the economy.  “The SNB will use its exclusive mandate to take measures
necessary,” she said. “However, the federal council welcomes
the SNB’s measures.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  