-- 
Swiss Franc Weakens as Report Shows Currency Reserves Climbed to Record

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-10-06T13:55:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/swiss-franc-weakens-as-report-shows-currency-reserves-climbed-to-record.html
The franc weakened against most of
its major counterparts as the  Swiss National Bank  said its
foreign-currency holdings increased to a record last month after
its decision to cap the currency’s gain.  The franc declined the most against the Brazilian Real and
the Japanese yen amid speculation the central bank may impose
further measures to contain its strength after imposing the cap
last month at 1.20 per euro. Reserves jumped to 282.4 billion
francs ($305 billion) at the end of September, from 253.4
billion francs the previous month, the SNB said. The franc rose
against the pound after the  Bank of England  reactivated its
bond-purchase program.  “The Swiss National Bank supports the euro-franc  exchange
rate  with franc sales, and there is continued speculation that
the SNB might raise the lower threshold for the euro-franc from
1.20,”  Lutz Karpowitz , a senior currency strategist at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , wrote in a note to clients.  The franc depreciated for a third day against the euro,
falling 0.2 percent to 1.2348 2:36 p.m. in London. It fell 0.5
percent to 92.76 centimes per dollar, and dropped 0.7 percent to
82.64 yen.  Today’s reserves data include both changes in foreign-
currency swaps as well as increases in currency holdings as a
result of direct franc sales. The report didn’t specify how much
the central bank spent in curbing the franc’s strength.  Intervention Estimate  “We estimate, extracting from valuation effects, they
bought around 11 billion francs worth of euros,” said  Geoff Kendrick , European head of currency strategy at Nomura
International Plc. The calculation was based on an assumption
that the percentage of euros in the reserves remained unchanged
from the second quarter at 55 percent.  The SNB imposed a ceiling on the franc for the first time
in more than three decades on Sept. 6, pledging to defend the
target with the “utmost determination” and prompting a record
drop in the currency.  The franc stayed lower after a separate report showed
inflation accelerated more than economists forecast in
September, led by higher costs for clothing, shoes and energy.  Consumer prices increased 0.5 percent from a year earlier
after rising 0.2 percent in August, the Federal Statistics
Office said. Economists forecast prices to rise an annual 0.3
percent, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  ‘Unavoidable’ Inflation  “The SNB interventions increase the  money supply  and are
therefore unavoidably an important ingredient for rising
inflation,” Commerzbank’s Karpowitz wrote. “Against this
background, today’s inflation data for September will gain
increasing significance.”  The franc reversed an earlier decline against the pound
after the British central bank said it would increase its bond-
purchase program, known as quantitative easing, to 275 billion
pounds ($422 billion) from 200 billion pounds to support the
economy.  The Swiss currency remained weaker against the euro after
the  European Central Bank  kept its benchmark rate on hold at
1.50 percent.  Swiss bonds were little changed, with the two-year note
yields rising less than one basis point to 0.04 percent. Ten-
year yields rose one basis point to 0.94 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in  London  at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  