-- 
Swiss, U.K. Sign Agreement to End Dispute Over Tax Evasion

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e   a n d   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-10-06T13:35:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/swiss-u-k-sign-agreement-to-end-dispute-over-untaxed-assets.html
Switzerland  and the U.K. signed an
agreement to settle a dispute over  tax evasion  by wealthy
Britons holding offshore accounts with Swiss private banks.  When the accord comes into force in 2013, Swiss banks will
pay 500 million Swiss francs ($537 million) to the U.K.
government to cover the failure by their clients to disclose
undeclared money in the past, according to the agreement signed
today. The banks will later be reimbursed from taxes paid by
their customers.  “Working with the Swiss government we have delivered a
highly effective solution which will benefit both countries and
recover billions of pounds of unpaid tax for the U.K.,” David Gauke, the U.K. Exchequer Secretary, said in a statement.  The settlement, which requires the approval of parliaments
in both countries, follows a similar accord between Switzerland
and  Germany  last month. It comes after Switzerland agreed in
March 2009 to meet international standards to avoid being
blacklisted as a tax haven by the  Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development .  Under the accord, Swiss banks will levy a withholding tax
of 48 percent on interest income and 27 percent on  capital gains 
earned by Britons with offshore accounts, according to the two
governments. Revenue generated will go to the British Treasury,
while client identities remain secret.  Stolen Data  To prevent new, undeclared funds from being deposited in
Switzerland, U.K. authorities can submit requests for
information that must state the name of the client, though not
necessarily the bank’s name, the  finance ministry  said. The
number of requests will be limited to 500 a year and so-called
fishing expeditions aren’t allowed.  Switzerland also agreed to give the U.K. information on the
top 10 jurisdictions to which Britons with Swiss bank accounts
transfer assets, the accord said.  By contrast, the U.K. government agreed that it won’t
“actively seek” to buy client data stolen from Swiss bank.  The U.K.’s revenue and customs authority, known as HMRC,
previously received data from its French counterparts concerning
clients of HSBC Holdings Plc,  Europe ’s largest bank. Herve
Falciani, a former software technician at the firm’s Geneva-
based private bank, stole details on at least 24,000 accounts
and passed client records to French government investigators.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net ;
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  