-- 
Swiss Stocks Climb for Second Day as UBS, Swiss Re Lead Increase in Zurich

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-10-06T15:56:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/swiss-stocks-climb-for-second-day-as-ubs-swiss-re-lead-increase-in-zurich.html
Swiss stocks rose for a second day
amid speculation European policy makers will step up their
efforts to contain the region’s debt crisis.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the country’s biggest
banks, led the advance after European Commission President  Jose
Barroso  said the body plans coordinated action to recapitalize
banks. Swiss Re Ltd. climbed after the reinsurer said it
“comfortably exceeds” the capital buffer required for a AA
rating at  Standard & Poor’s .  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of the largest and most
actively traded companies, increased 2.5 percent to 5,640.07 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Zurich. The gauge has still tumbled 12
percent this year as concern grows that  Greece  will default and
countries from Italy to Spain face higher borrowing costs. The
broader Swiss Performance Index added 2.4 percent today.  “In  Europe , the gloomiest assumptions about the debt
crisis are being priced in,” said Milan-based Giordano Lombardo, group chief investment officer at Pioneer Investments,
which oversees $238 billion. “When market conditions become
less volatile, conventional metrics such as price-to-earnings
ratios or price-to-book ratios are likely to regain a key role
and European equities should have more upside than other markets
in this better environment.”  Claims for U.S. unemployment benefits increased last week
less than forecast to a level that shows companies may be
starting to slow the pace of dismissals, according to a report.  UBS, Credit Suisse  UBS, Switzerland’s largest bank, increased 4.5 percent to
10.97 Swiss francs. Francois Gouws and Yassine Bouhara resigned
as co-heads of global equities following last month’s $2.3
billion loss from unauthorized trading, the bank said yesterday
after markets closed. Mike Stewart, hired from Bank of America
Corp. in July, will become the sole head of equities.  Credit Suisse, the nation’s second-biggest bank, gained 4.6
percent to 24.17 francs.  Financial shares in Europe extended their gains as Barroso
said the European Union’s executive body will propose a plan to
recapitalize banks. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said policy
makers need to “look again” at whether European banks need
additional capital.  “We are now proposing to the member states to have a
coordinated action to recapitalize banks and so to get rid of
toxic assets that they may have,” Barroso said today in a video
question-and-answer session. Euro-region lenders may need more
than 140 billion euros ($188 billion) through a program similar
to the U.S. Troubled Asset Relief Program, Morgan Stanley
analysts said.  Swiss Re, Adecco  Swiss Re, the world’s second-biggest reinsurer, rose 4.3
percent to 45.71 francs. The reinsurer said it exceeds a capital
buffer of between $3 billion and $5 billion required for an S&P
rating of AA. The company also said it has a Swiss Solvency Test
ratio in excess of 200 percent, according to a presentation
published on its website.  Adecco SA (ADEN) , the world’s biggest provider of temporary
staffing, jumped 7.2 percent to 37.90 francs, its biggest gain
since December 2009. Hays Plc, the London-based recruiting
company, climbed 7.4 percent after the company said net fees
rose 21 percent in the quarter ended September 30. Hays said
business “remains robust” in international markets.  Nobel Biocare Holding AG (NOBN) , the second-largest maker of
dental implants by sales, dropped 1.6 percent to 9.01 francs.
The shares were cut to “sell” from “buy” at Citigroup Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in  London  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer in London at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 