-- 
U.K. Pound Weakens Versus Dollar Before BOE Bond-Purchase, Rate Decision

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-10-06T07:56:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/u-k-pound-weakens-versus-dollar-before-boe-bond-purchase-rate-decision.html
The pound weakened for a second day
versus the dollar and yen before the  Bank of England ’s latest
interest-rate decision amid speculation it will restart a bond-
purchase program to help revive the U.K. economy.  Sterling dropped against all but two of its 16 major
counterparts, sliding most versus the Australian dollar. The
Monetary Policy Committee will leave its key rate unchanged at
0.5 percent, according to all 53 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Eleven of 32 economists surveyed separately predict
at least a 50 billion-pound ($77 billion) increase in its so-
called quantitative easing program.  “There might be a short relief rally in sterling on a lack
of further BOE action but it’s likely to be short-lived as the
market is still focused on the likelihood of further QE by the
November meeting,” said  Ian Stannard , London-based head of
European currency strategy at Morgan Stanley. “The BOE will
move towards further QE in coming months and ultimately sterling
will come under pressure.”  The pound weakened 0.1 percent to $1.5439 at 8:54 a.m. in
 London . It declined 0.2 percent to 118.47 yen and was little
changed against the euro at 86.36 pence.  Morgan Stanley recommends selling the pound on any “relief
rallies” that are likely to occur should the central bank
refrain from announcing further monetary stimulus for the U.K.
economy.  The Bank of England has faced pressure to embark on further
quantitative easing to help revive an economy battling the
steepest government spending cuts since World War II and a
worsening euro-area debt crisis. The U.K.’s economy grew less
than expected in the second quarter, expanding 0.1 percent from
the first three months of the year, the  Office for National
Statistics  said yesterday.  That was lower than the 0.2 percent previously published by
the statistics body and also missed the 0.2 percent expansion
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  U.K. 10-year gilt yields were three basis points lower at
2.34 percent and the two-year note yield was little changed at
0.58 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  