-- 
U.K. Sues Over ECB Limits on Clearing Euro-Denominated Trades

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-10-06T12:56:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/u-k-sues-over-ecb-limits-on-clearing-euro-denominated-trades.html
The U.K. sued the  European Central
Bank  over plans to block trades in some euro-denominated
securities from being cleared outside of the 17 countries that
share the currency.  In the first such move by a government, the U.K.’s lawsuit
against the ECB over its location policy for clearinghouses was
registered at the EU General Court in Luxembourg. A hearing
could come within two years and a ruling may take as long as
three years.  The case was registered at the EU court, the region’s
second-highest, on Sept. 15, according to the tribunal’s press
service, the same day the U.K. Treasury said it would take
action. In parallel with the court case, the U.K. is seeking
safeguards in a draft EU law on over-the-counter derivatives
that would protect clearinghouses from pressure to relocate.  EU finance ministers this week agreed to stipulate in the
law that “no member state or a group of member states” should
be discriminated against as a venue for clearing services. The
final version of the rules must be hammered out in negotiations
between governments and lawmakers in the European Parliament.  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said after
the ministerial meeting that the draft had been adjusted to take
into account his country’s concerns.  “We have inserted into the article of the draft directive
an explicit reference to non-discrimination against any member
state in any currency,” said Osborne said. “Of course we still
have our legal action with the ECB, but in terms of the draft
directive here on derivatives we have the clearest possible
statement of a non-discriminatory location policy.”  The case is: T-496/11 pending case,  United Kingdom  v. ECB.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  