-- 
U.K. Services Rise, Led by Business Services

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-10-06T08:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/u-k-services-rises-in-july-led-by-business-services-finance.html
Britain’s services companies grew 0.2
percent in July, led by business services and finance.  The increase followed a revised 0.3 percent decline in
June, the  Office for National Statistics  said in  London  today.
On the year, services, which account for about three quarters of
the economy, grew 1.3 percent.  The Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee meets today
to decide whether to resume buying bonds as the government’s
budget squeeze and  Europe ’s debt crisis hurt growth prospects.
While data yesterday showed economic growth slowed more than
initially estimated in the second quarter, a separate report
said services growth unexpectedly strengthened in September.  “In the monthly indicators since the last MPC meeting,
there have been more upward than downward surprises, so that
would argue for holding back” on more stimulus,  Alan Clarke , an
economist at  Scotia Capital  in London, said before the release.
“But we all know it’s coming, so why wait? It’s a very close
call, but I think November is a slightly better bet.”  In the three months through July, services rose 0.9 percent
from the previous three months, the most since November 2007.
From a year earlier, the three-month index was up 1.3 percent.  On the month, business services and finance grew 0.4
percent, while government services increased 0.3 percent, the
statistics office said. Within business services, growth was led
by legal and consultancy work. The index for distribution,
hotels and restaurant slipped 0.1 percent.  In a separate release today, the statistics office said
 labor productivity  was unchanged in the second quarter from the
previous three months and was down 0.2 percent on the year.  Output per hour increased 1.3 percent on the quarter, while
unit labor costs, or the amount spent on wages and salaries to
produce each unit of output, rose 0.3 percent.  In manufacturing, output per hour increased 3.7 percent
from the first quarter, the most since at least 1997. The
increase was partly due to people taking leave around Easter and
the extra public holiday for the Royal Wedding in April.
Services output per hour rose 1.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  