-- 
U.K. Universities Seen Suffering From Government Reform Plans

-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 
2011-10-06T11:47:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/u-k-universities-seen-suffering-from-government-reform-plans.html
Britain’s reputation as a center of
excellence in higher education may be damaged by government
proposals to reform the universities, according to the compilers
of this year’s  World University Rankings .  “The U.K. is blessed with some truly brilliant
universities, more brilliant than the government understands,
judging by its hastily concocted higher education reforms, with
all the uncertainty they entail,” said Ann Mroz, the editor of
the London-based  Times Higher Education , in a report
accompanying the list. THE published the list today with data
from Thomson Reuters Corp.  There are 32 U.K. universities in the top 200, more than
any other country apart from the U.S., which has 75. Seven U.K.
institutions are in the top 50, with  Oxford University ,
 Cambridge University  and  Imperial College London  in the top 10.  “We spend much less on our universities than many of our
competitors,” yet “outperform almost all of them,” Mroz said.
The U.K. spent 1.2 percent of its gross domestic product on
tertiary education in 2008, compared with an average of 1.5
percent for countries belonging to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development, according to an OECD report on
education published last month. Only  Italy , Slovenia and the
Slovak Republic spent less.  As part of austerity measures designed to cut the  budget
deficit , the U.K. government is withdrawing direct subsidies for
humanities courses and allowing universities to increase tuition
fees to as much as 9,000 pounds ($13,800) a year, or more than
three times the current maximum, a move that met with widespread
student protests last December.  Compete for Students  The government published a Higher Education White Paper in
June, outlining proposals to encourage universities to compete
for students by giving more information about teaching quality
and allowing successful institutions to expand. The intention is
to remove quotas that cap a university’s intake.  Phil Baty, who edited the global rankings, said he’s
concerned about the likely effect of the proposed reforms on the
strength and reputation of British universities. In a telephone
interview, he questioned the consequences of much higher
undergraduate tuition fees for “homegrown postgraduates and the
next generation of researchers.”  In July, the government proposed higher pension
contributions for public-sector workers, including an increase
of 300 million pounds for teachers. It has also tightened visa
requirements and abolished the post-study work visa for graduate
students, starting next year.  “There’s an explosive mixture,” Baty said. “We’re one of
the best in attracting international students and yet we’re
putting restrictions on visas that could damage a great source
of income and a great source of diversity on campus.” Other
countries, particularly the U.S., are becoming “more aggressive
and competitive” in attracting students from abroad, he said.  Germany  and the Netherlands have 12 universities each in
the THE top 200, followed by  Canada  with nine and  Australia  with
seven.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in  London  at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  