-- 
U.S. Homebuilders’ Improving Markets Index (Text)

-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 
2011-10-06T14:17:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/u-s-homebuilders-improving-markets-index-text-.html
Following is the text of the
Improving Markets Index (IMI) from the  National Association of
Home Builders .  Number of Improving Housing Markets Nearly Doubles in October  The second edition of the National Association of Home Builders/
First American Improving Markets Index (IMI), released today,
shows 23 individual housing markets now qualifying as
“improving” under the new gauge’s parameters. This is nearly
double the 12 housing markets that made the list last month.  The index reveals metropolitan areas that have shown improvement
for at least six months in housing permits, employment and
housing prices. The following metros were listed in October:  ·     Alexandria, LA
·     Amarillo, TX
·     Anchorage, AK
·     Bismarck, ND
·     Casper, WY
·     Fairbanks, AK
·     Fayetteville, NC
·     Houma, LA
·      Iowa  City, IA
·     Jonesboro, AR
·     Kankakee, IL
·     McAllen, TX
·     Midland, TX
·      New Orleans , LA
·     Odessa, TX
·     Pine Bluff, AR
·     Pittsburgh, PA
·     Sherman, TX
·     Sumter, SC
·     Waco, TX
·     Waterloo, IA
·     Wichita Falls, TX
·     Winston-Salem, NC  “Both the number and geographic diversity of improving housing
markets expanded this month, with Iowa,  Illinois  and  South
Carolina  all newly represented by one entry or more on the
list,” said National Association of Home Builders (NAHB)
Chairman Bob Nielsen, a home builder from Reno, Nev. “This is
further evidence that, despite the tough conditions that persist
in many cities, pockets of improvement are emerging in local
housing markets across the country.”  “While Pittsburgh and New Orleans remain the two largest
improving markets, the October IMI is heavily weighted by
smaller cities in which energy and agriculture are the primary
economic drivers and where the effects of the recession have
been less pronounced,” said NAHB Chief Economist  David Crowe .
“In particular, Texas stands out for its seven entries on the
improving markets list.”  Bangor,  Maine , was the only area to drop off of the improving
markets list in October, due to a decline in local building
permits.  The IMI is designed to track housing markets throughout the
country that are showing signs of improving economic health. The
index measures three sets of independent monthly data to get a
mark on the top improving Metropolitan Statistical Areas. The
three indicators that are analyzed are employment growth from
the Bureau of Labor Statistics, house price appreciation from
 Freddie Mac , and single-family housing permit growth from the
U.S. Census Bureau. NAHB uses the latest available data from
these sources to generate a list of improving markets. A metro
area must see improvement in all three areas for at least six
months following their respective troughs before being included
on the improving markets list.  Editor’s Note: The NAHB/First American Improving Markets Index
(IMI) is released on the fourth business day of each month at
10:00 a.m. ET, unless that day falls on a Friday - in which case,
the index will be released the following Monday. A full calendar
of 2011 release dates can be found at www.nahb.org/imi.  SOURCE: NAHB  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  