-- 
U.S. Said to Target Medical Marijuana Outlets in California

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n ,   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-10-07T00:10:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/u-s-attorneys-said-to-target-medical-marijuana-outlets-in-california.html
The four  California  U.S. attorneys
offices are conducting a coordinated crackdown on medical
marijuana dispensaries this week, according to a law enforcement
official who wasn’t authorized to discuss the matter publicly.  The effort is limited to California and isn’t national in
scope, the official said.  “We are initiating similar communications to selected
property owners in the Eastern District,” Lauren Horwood, a
spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Benjamin B. Wagner in  Sacramento ,
said in an e-mailed statement. “This particular enforcement
action is targeting the property owners.”  Representatives of the U.S. attorneys in Los Angeles and
 San Francisco  declined to comment. A call to the U.S. Attorney’s
Office in  San Diego  wasn’t immediately returned.  Lynnette Shaw, the owner of Marin Alliance for Medical
Marijuana in Fairfax, California, said her landlord received a
letter from the  Justice Department .  “It was very ominous,” Shaw said in an interview. “It
informed him there was medical marijuana dispensing on his site,
and that he had 45 days to evict us, or possibly face 40 years
in jail, forfeiture of the property, and any money we had given
him.”  Landlord, Moving  Shaw, who said she sells $1 million in medicinal cannabis a
year, said she’s trying to find a way to avoid moving, without
harming her landlord. She said her landlord wants to remain
anonymous.  Steve DeAngelo, executive director of Oakland, California-
based Harborside Health Center, the largest marijuana dispensary
in the country with $22 million in annual revenue, said he won’t
close his business.  “There’s nothing that anyone can do to stop me from
providing this medicine to people who need it,” DeAngelo said
in an interview. “Unless they lock me up, chain me down, and
put me in a box -- I will keep on doing this.”  Harborside, in operation for five years, has 94,000
registered customers and sees 600 to 800 patients a day,
DeAngelo said.  A state appeals court ruled on Oct. 4 that the city of  Long
Beach  can’t regulate and permit medical marijuana sales, rather
than merely decriminalize it, because of federal laws
prohibiting the possession and distribution of the drug.  California, in 1996, became the first state to legalize
marijuana for medical use. Fifteen states and the  District of
Columbia  followed, according to the National Organization for
the Reform of Marijuana Laws.  Voters in California last year rejected a ballot measure
that would have legalized marijuana for personal use, blocking
efforts to expand the industry beyond medical purposes in the
most populous U.S. state.  California residents consume about 1 million pounds of
marijuana each year, according to the state’s tax administrator,
the  Board of Equalization .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 212-617-2563 or  rgale5@bloomberg.net  