-- 
U.S. Senate Votes 62-38 to Limit Debate on Chinese-Currency Legislation

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-10-06T16:10:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/u-s-senate-votes-62-38-to-limit-debate-on-chinese-currency-legislation.html
The Senate advanced legislation
letting U.S. companies seek duties to compensate for an
undervalued Chinese yuan, setting up a vote on the measure as
soon as today.  The Senate approved 62-38 a motion limiting debate on the
bill backed by Democrats such as Senators Sherrod Brown of  Ohio 
and  Charles Schumer  of  New York  and Republicans including
Lindsey Graham of  South Carolina  and  Jeff Sessions  of Alabama.  The legislation, opposed by business groups such as the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce, may stall in the House. Republican
Speaker  John Boehner  of Ohio said today that the bill could
start a trade war.  “To force the Chinese to do what is arguably very
difficult to do I think is wrong, it’s dangerous,” Boehner said
today at the Washington Ideas Forum, sponsored by Atlantic
magazine and the Aspen Institute. “Given the economic
uncertainty around the world, it’s just very dangerous and we
should not be engaged in this.  ‘‘I frankly think the president agrees with me but why
isn’t the president speaking out?,” Boehner said. “Is he too
busy campaigning?”  President Barack Obama said at a press conference today
that while “China has been very aggressive in gaming the
trading system to its advantage and to the disadvantage of other
countries, particularly the United States,” he wants to make
sure the U.S. doesn’t pass laws that “are symbolic, knowing
that they’re probably not going to be upheld by the World Trade
Organization.”  Schumer’s Past Efforts  Schumer, who has proposed similar measures on  China ’s
currency over the past six years, has failed so far to get an
up-or-down Senate vote on a bill.  Supporters say the legislation has a better chance of
passing the Senate this time because China, the world’s second-
biggest economy after the U.S., has become a target for
lawmakers frustrated by the widening trade deficit with that
nation and domestic unemployment stuck at 9.1 percent.  The bill mandates that the Treasury Department identify
misaligned currencies, instead of finding that a currency was
manipulated, as is currently required. Governments that
undervalue their currencies and don’t take corrective action
would face penalties, including increased dumping duties, a ban
on federal procurement in the U.S. and ineligibility to receive
financing form the  Overseas Private Investment Corporation .  The yuan has appreciated 5.1 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  in the past year and 24 percent in the past five years,
the steepest advance among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg. China limits currency conversions for investment
purposes and buys dollars to slow the yuan’s advance and
preserve the competitiveness of China’s exports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  