-- 
U.S. Urged to Halt Skilled-Worker Flight or Lose Innovation Lead

-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-10-06T04:01:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/u-s-urged-to-halt-skilled-worker-flight-or-lose-innovation-lead.html
The U.S. risks losing its global lead
in innovation if it fails to halt an exodus of skilled foreign
workers from the country and doesn’t do more to support research
and development.  That was a message delivered by five corporate executives
and seven university leaders at an event yesterday sponsored by
 Harvard University  and the Business Roundtable and hosted by
Bloomberg News. They argued that the development of ideas is
vital to U.S. economic growth and job creation and said the
nation can’t afford to take its preeminent position for granted.  “The United States has long been a leader in innovation,
but we believe it needs a more focused, national innovation
policy,” said Harvard President Drew Gilpin Faust.  Besides backing more working visas, group participants also
called for more stable and predictable funding of research and
development by the federal government and said an R&D tax credit
should be made permanent. They also urged Congress to keep its
pledge to let the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office have control
over all the fees it collects to promote innovation.  House Republican leader Eric Cantor and John Holdren,
President  Barack Obama ’s science adviser, voiced sympathy for
the panel’s plea for more visas for foreign workers, though they
stopped short of promising immediate action, in separate
appearances at the event.  ‘Alarming’ Trend  “We have an alarming rate of exodus, if you will, of
foreign nationals in this country who come here to attend your
universities and then find it too difficult to stay here,”
Cantor, of  Virginia , told the university chiefs and executives,
who included John Lechleiter, chief executive officer of
drugmaker  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ; Bill Green, chairman of consulting
firm Accenture Plc and Tim Solso, CEO of diesel truck-engine
maker Cummins Inc. “We intend to try and address that.”  Some executives called on the government to decouple the
issue of obtaining more visas for skilled workers with the move
for a broader immigration overhaul, which has been stalled on
 Capitol Hill  over issues such as border security.  Holdren told the group, which also included  Ellen Kullman ,
CEO of DuPont Co., and James Goodnight, CEO of SAS Institute
Inc., that Obama administration officials “would like to get
the high-tech part done if we can.”  Members of the panel contrasted the U.S. government’s
piecemeal approach to innovation with that taken by the
country’s overseas competitors.  ‘Mixed Messages’  “Individual countries -- Ireland, the U.K.,  France , China,
 Singapore  come to mind -- are very aggressively pursuing high-
end research-based kinds of opportunities and jobs” through tax
credits and other incentives, Lechleiter said. “We get mixed
messages sometimes in this country.”  John Engler , president of the  Business Roundtable , agreed.
“There’s no national strategy,” he said.  “It’s also about the rise of the emerging market
multinational and that the competitors of the future are
companies whose names we can’t pronounce,” said Green of
Dublin-based Accenture. “That is the competitive threat.”  Added Stanford University President John Hennessy, “We’re
going to have to step it up.”  The leaders focused much of their attention on the nation’s
immigration policy.  The corporate quest for more skilled workers from overseas
has been stymied in  Washington , with many lawmakers and the
public more focused on the country’s estimated 10 million
illegal immigrants. That drew frustration from the academics and
industrialists at the “Innovation and the Economy” event.  ‘Sausage-Making Process’  “We have a crisis,” said Green. “The sausage-making
process of getting an outcome, I think, puts us at a huge
disadvantage.”  The issue is economic because workers with essential skills
are leaving the U.S. and contributing to the competition, the
executives and university leaders said.  “There are jobs today that are open because we don’t have
the skilled workforce here,” said Kullman of Wilmington,
Delaware-based DuPont. “If we want to continue to create
economic growth we have to fill those jobs with the best and the
brightest no matter where they come from.”  The business agenda calls for increases in worker visas for
skilled and unskilled labor, and more employment-based green
cards -- proof of permanent residency in the U.S. that can allow
for a lifetime career.  Lechleiter said it takes Indianapolis-based Lilly five
years on average to get green cards for the students it hires
from Harvard in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  ‘Stop Messing Around’  “An innovative solution is that we take these really
talented graduate students that we have that we’re granting
Ph.Ds. to and we staple that green card right to that Ph.D.,”
said Sally Mason, president of the University of  Iowa . “And we
stop messing around and really diverting talent from the  United
States  back to other places.”  Engler said it would be difficult politically to separate
the issue of skilled foreign workers from broader immigration
reform. “Nobody will let it loose,” he said.  Panel participants also stressed the importance of
government support of research and development in promoting
innovation and faster economic growth.  Lechleiter said lawmakers should permanently renew the
research-and-development tax credit to make it easier for
companies to compete globally.  Targeted Tax Breaks  The credit is among dozens of targeted tax breaks set to
expire Dec. 31. It was first enacted in 1981 and has been
renewed 14 times since then. In 2008, the most recent year for
which data are available, companies claimed $8.3 billion in
research credits, according to Internal Revenue Service data.  Stanford’s Hennessy voiced concern that federal R&D
spending would be cut in the drive to reduce the U.S. deficit,
which the  Congressional Budget Office  estimates was $1.3
trillion in the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30.  The entire federal research-and-development investment in
universities is a “tiny piece of the federal budget,” he said.
To cut that funding off “will just result in weaker economic
growth for the country and fewer jobs.”  Researchers need to be assured of a steady stream of
funding to carry out their work, added Linda Katehi, chancellor
of the  University of California  at Davis.  “It’s absolutely critical,” she said. “We find we have
been having difficulties in getting our researchers to
participate in this process early in their careers.”  About 60 percent of spending on basic research comes from
the federal government.  The situation is different in some foreign countries,
Harvard’s Faust said. Institutions in  China , Singapore and
 Europe  “are assuring our faculty that they will have almost
unlimited support for their work,” she said.  “All these other countries want to be like us,” said
Accenture’s Green.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  