-- 
U.S. Apartment Vacancies Drop to Five-Year Low as Demand Begins to Slow

-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u   a n d   K a t i e   S p e n c e r
-- 
2011-10-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/u-s-apartment-vacancies-drop-to-five-year-low-as-demand-begins-to-slow.html
U.S. apartment vacancies fell to a
five-year low in the third quarter, enabling landlords to
increase rents even as tepid job growth slowed leasing in what
is usually a strong season for demand,  Reis Inc. (REIS)  said.  The vacancy rate dropped to 5.6 percent, the lowest since
the third quarter of 2006, the New York-based property-research
company said in a report today. It was 5.9 percent in the
previous three months and 7.1 percent a year earlier. The
average monthly effective rent rose to $1,004 from $997 in the
second quarter and $981 in the same period of 2010.  Mounting foreclosures, tighter credit for homebuyers and
young people moving out on their own have increased demand for
apartments after the vacancy rate reached a three-decade high of
8 percent at the end of 2009. Leasing may be starting to cool as
the U.S.  unemployment rate  sticks above 9 percent and concern
grows that the economy is weakening, Reis said.  Apartment demand in the third quarter “was good, but maybe
not as good as it could have been,” Ryan Severino, senior
economist at Reis, said in a telephone interview. “Sentiment
turned severely negative during August and there was a
heightened fear of the economy backsliding.”  Landlords saw a net increase in occupied space of about
36,000 units in the third quarter, fewer than the 42,000 units
in the previous three months and 95,000 units a year earlier,
Reis said. The period is usually one of the strongest for
apartment leasing because people tend to move during warmer-
weather months and school vacations.  Slower ‘Unbundling’  Renewed weakness in the labor market slowed a wave of young
people moving out of their parents’ homes or leaving roommates
to rent their own place, a phenomenon known as unbundling, said
Donald Davidoff, head of marketing for Archstone, the apartment
owner based in Englewood,  Colorado . The  U.S. economy  added zero
jobs in August, the weakest reading since September 2010, and
the unemployment rate remained at 9.1 percent, according to the
Labor Department.  “The fact that job growth has slowed is certainly not
encouraging additional unbundling,” said Davidoff, whose
company owns 434 apartment complexes across the U.S. “The pace
of that has clearly slowed over the past couple of months.”  Vacancies shrank partly because new completions remain near
their lowest since Reis began tracking the quarterly data in
1999, Severino said. About 8,200 units came to market in the
past three months, the second-lowest quarterly number of the
past 12 years, according to Reis. New supply from developers
could start affecting occupancy rates in late 2012, Reis said.  Effective-Rent Gains  Effective rents, or what tenants pay after landlord
giveaways are included, rose on a year-over-year basis in 81 out
of the 82 metropolitan areas tracked by Reis.  San Jose ,
 California , led with 5.5 percent growth in effective rents from
a year earlier, followed by  San Francisco  at 4.5 percent and New
York at 3.7 percent, Reis said.  Las Vegas  was the only city
where rents fell.  The 2.3 percent annual growth nationwide in effective rents
outstripped the 2.1 percent annual increase in landlords’ asking
rents, suggesting that concessions continued to decrease amid
strong demand for rental housing, Reis said.  Vacancies should decline further as the number of jobs
increases for people ages 20 to 34, the prime group of renters,
said Severino. Lingering pessimism about  home prices  and the
difficulty of qualifying for mortgages also favor the rental
market, he said.  Pushing Rents  “The market hasn’t quite tightened to the point where
landlords can really push rents in excess of inflation,”
Severino said. “But we’re not too far away. We can envision
within the next year or so seeing a figure more in the 3 to 4
percent range” for rent growth.  Effective rents have climbed 4.1 percent from their
recession low in 2009, according to Reis. Higher rates may spur
people to double up again, move home or downsize to a less
expensive rental, according to Ron Johnsey, president of
Axiometrics Inc., a Dallas-based apartment-research company.
Rent growth is “definitely flattening out,” he said.  “The operators really pushed rents the first half of the
year and then just stood there to protect those gains,” Johnsey
said. “It looks like that may be happening again.”  William Kendust, a 26-year-old church youth director in the
city of  Melbourne  on  Florida ’s eastern shore, moved back in with
his parents in January after sharing an apartment with his
brother and a friend for two years.  “I just felt that it would be throwing money away to rent
a place before I was ready” to buy a house, said Kendust, who
plans to stay at home longer to help his mom after his father
died unexpectedly.  “A lot of young people in their 20s want to be able to get
up and go, and the opportunity of going back to school is a
draw,” Kendust said. “Living with their parents for a while
gives them the freedom to do that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at   hyu@bloomberg.net ;
Katie Spencer in  New York  at 
 kspencer14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  