-- 
U.S. Seasonal Drought Outlook for Oct. 6 to Dec. 2011 (Text)

-- B y   M i k e   S e b a n y
-- 
2011-10-06T12:45:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/u-s-seasonal-drought-outlook-for-oct-6-to-dec-2011-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
 Seasonal Drought Outlook  as released by the  National Weather
Service  in Camp Springs, Maryland:  Latest Seasonal Assessment - The drought outlook for October 6,
2011 -December 2011 was based upon climate anomalies associated
with La Nina, short to medium range forecasts, and climatology.
Persistence or development can be expected across much of the
Southeast and lower Mississippi Valley. However, some
improvement is forecast across parts of  Florida , Georgia, and
 South Carolina  where moderate to heavy rainfall is forecast
early in the period. The return of La Nina elevates the chances
for persistence across most of the exceptional drought areas of
the southern Plains. Expected rainfall during early-to-mid
October results in a forecast of some improvement across western
Oklahoma and northwest  Texas . It should be noted that forecast
confidence across the western Gulf region and Southeast is
tempered due to the potential for heavy rainfall associated with
tropical cyclone activity during the fall. The end of the summer
monsoon and enhanced odds for below median precipitation during
October - December favor persistence across the Southwest. A
relatively dry climatology favors persistence across  Iowa ,
Minnesota, and South Dakota, while some improvement is forecast
across the decreasing drought areas of Illinois and Indiana.
Across Hawaii, drought persistence is forecast for the western
Big Island, Molokai, and Maui since the wet signal associated
with La Nina typically becomes established later in the winter.  SOURCE: National Weather Service  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Sebany in Washington at 
 msebany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  