-- 
U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending Oct. 4 (Text)

-- B y   M i k e   S e b a n y
-- 
2011-10-06T12:30:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-oct-4-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln,  Nebraska :  The Southeast: Areas of heavy rain again affected parts of this
area, leading to some drought/dryness reductions in the central
Carolinas and finally slicing a hole in the large D3 area
centered on  Georgia , in particular across the interior
southeast, where totals of 4 to 8 inches fell during the last 2
weeks. Similar rainfall during this period in central and west-
central Georgia was not quite adequate to bring a classification
improvement, but was sufficient to justify scaling back the
dryness and drought in southwestern  Alabama . Light precipitation
led to expansion of D0 to D3 conditions in western South
Carolina and adjacent  North Carolina , where about half of normal
rainfall was observed over the last 30 days.  South of these areas, D0 to D3 areas expanded southward in the
central Panhandle and in parts of the northern Peninsula. Six-
month deficits exceed one foot now in parts of the central
Peninsula. Across southern  Florida , rain has been spotty but
locally heavy recently, and quite a few minor adjustments to the
region’s D0 to D2 areas were made this week.  The Northeast and Mid-Atlantic: Hit-and-miss light rainfall
continued again in and near the areas of dryness in  New York  and
West Virginia. As a result, the D0 areas were reconfigured a bit
but their intensity remained unchanged.  The South:  Over 4 inches of rain soaked part of the central
Lower Mississippi Valley, allowing D0 to D3 conditions to be
scaled back to the west. Elsewhere, moderate to locally heavy
rains fell on northeast Oklahoma and southern Missouri, but
appeared insufficient to substantially change drought conditions
there. In the rest of the region, the theme of the last year was
again played out: Little or no precipitation, and increasing
moisture deficits except in small isolated areas. Several small
adjustments were made in parts of the region, but of course the
sprawling D4 area centered on  Texas  can’t be depicted any more
seriously than it already was. Some larger-scale changes
included expansion of D4 with growing shorter-term deficits in
southeast  Oklahoma , a westward expansion of D0 to D3 conditions
along the immediate southwestern Louisiana coast, and the
extension of D1 conditions eastward to cover most of  Arkansas .
Several reports of dry pastures affecting livestock were noted,
and despite recent near-normal precipitation, water supplies
remain a concern in northwest Arkansas as well as throughout the
large area of exceptional drought.  The Ohio Valley: A swath of heavy rain (generally 4 to locally 8
inches) wiped out dryness in southern  Indiana  and adjacent
areas, but in other sections, specifically south-central
Kentucky and areas from west-central Indiana westward, dryness
and drought persisted.  The Plains and Midwest: Several inches of rain eased dryness and
drought in the upper Peninsula of  Michigan , and more moderate
rains kept drought depictions unchanged  in the remainder of the
Great Lakes region. Farther west and south, in areas from
central  Kansas  to northern  Missouri  and northward through the
eastern Dakotas and  Minnesota , short-term but intense dryness
has led to the rapid development and expansion of dryness and
drought. Many areas have received less than one-quarter of
normal precipitation in the last 30 to 60 days, along with above
normal temperatures. The rapid development of dryness quickly
depleted topsoils, even leading to fires in some brush and even
crop areas. Drought now covers areas from southeast  Iowa  to
eastern South Dakota, with severe drought now observed in
southern Minnesota.  The West: A re-assessment of rainfall during the past few months
led to a reduction from D4 to D3 conditions for a small area in
southeast New Mexico, but otherwise, light precipitation at best
kept existing dryness and drought intact from the High Plains
westward through the Rockies and Intermountain West.  Hawaii ,  Alaska  and Puerto Rico: Drought conditions remained
unchanged in Alaska and Puerto Rico this week.  In Hawaii,
further degradation was noted D1 to D3 conditions expanded in
northeastern sections of the Big Island. Farther south, D3 was
introduced along part of the southern Big Island coastal areas.  Looking Ahead: During October 5 - 10, 2011, a dramatic and long-
overdue swath of moisture should push into the central and
western Plains states, dropping over an inch of rain on a broad
area from the northwestern half of Texas (except the Big Bend)
northward through Nebraska and the adjacent Dakotas and
Minnesota. Totals may reach 3.5 to 5.5 inches in central
Nebraska and also southeastern parts of the Texas Panhandle.
Farther east, a tropical system should spread heavy rains across
Florida, southeastern Georgia, and adjacent  South Carolina . Over
1.5 inch is expected through this region, with as much as 8
inches possible along the southeast Florida coast. Elsewhere,
anywhere from a few tenths of an inch to a couple of inches of
precipitation should fall on parts of the Rockies, with light
rain at best in other areas of dryness and drought.  For the ensuing 5 days (October 11 - 15, 2011), odds favor a
return to dryness from the central and southern Intermountain
West eastward through the southern Plains and middle Mississippi
Valley, including most of Texas. In contrast, wet weather is
favored in the northern Rockies and in the dry areas of the
Southeast.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Sebany in Washington at 
 msebany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  