-- 
U.S. Stocks Rise on Speculation About Progress on Europe Crisis

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-10-06T20:48:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/u-s-stock-index-futures-climb-ocz-rises-as-apple-drops-after-jobs-death.html
U.S. stocks rallied, giving the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index its biggest three-day gain since
August, amid speculation that European officials were making
progress in containing the region’s debt crisis.  Financial stocks in the S&P 500 added 3.2 percent as a
group, rising 8.8 percent in three days, the biggest advance
since July 2009, as European lenders gained and Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said U.S. banks have strengthened.
 Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S. aluminum producer, climbed 5.4
percent as commodities jumped.  Target Corp. (TGT)  added 4.3 percent as
September sales beat analysts’ estimates.  The S&P 500 rallied 1.8 percent to 1,164.97 at 4 p.m. New
York time, climbing 6 percent in three days, the most since Aug.
15. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  gained 183.38 points, or
1.7 percent, to 11,123.33 today. The Russell 2000 Index of small
companies jumped 2.4 percent, extending its three-day advance to
11 percent, the biggest rally since March 2009.  “Europe has been a significant cloud hanging over our
heads,” Michael Mullaney, who helps manage $9.5 billion at
Fiduciary Trust in  Boston , said in a telephone interview. “If
there’s something more long-term in nature as compared to a
short-term fix, the market will look very favorably on that,
especially the financial sector.”  The  S&P 500  this week came within 1 percent of extending
its decline from its April peak to 20 percent, the common
definition of a  bear market . Concern over Europe’s debt crisis
sent the index to a one-year low on Oct. 3, pushing it to 12.02
times reported earnings, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That was the cheapest valuation level since 2009.  ‘Downside Risks’  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
the ECB will resume covered-bond purchases and reintroduce
yearlong loans for banks, while defying calls for an interest-
rate cut and acknowledging “downside risks” to the economy
have intensified. The European Commission is pushing for a
coordinated capital injection for banks to shield them from the
fallout of a potential Greek default.  “People have priced in a Lehman II type of situation,”
Brian Barish, Denver-based president of Cambiar Investors LLC,
which oversees about $8 billion, said in a telephone interview.
“You start to hear some credible stuff on European bank
recapitalization. They will do what they’ve got to do to prevent
a Lehman from happening.”  The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  rallied 4.6 percent. Geithner said U.S.
financial firms have strengthened and there is “absolutely” no
chance of another collapsing like Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
in 2008. Geithner, testifying today before the Senate Banking
Committee in  Washington , didn’t mention any banks by name when
responding to a question about Morgan Stanley.  ‘Very Modest’  “The direct exposure of the U.S. financial system to the
countries under the most pressure in Europe is very modest,” he
said. “Our firms, and this is true across the largest
institutions in the  United States , again are in a much stronger
position if you look at their capital levels, levels of
leverage, how they’re funded.”  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  rose 8.8 percent, the most in the
Dow, to $6.28, while JPMorgan Chase & Co. added 5 percent to
$32.38.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  climbed 4.8 percent to $15.18. Citigroup
Inc. increased 5.3 percent to $26.02.  Stocks also rose as data showed that claims for U.S.
unemployment benefits rose less than forecast last week.
Government data tomorrow are forecast to show employers added
55,000 workers to payrolls in September and the  unemployment
rate  held at 9.1 percent, according to the median forecast of
economists.  Most-Tied  The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of companies most-tied to
the economy rose 2.6 percent. The Dow Jones Transportation
Average added 2.2 percent. Alcoa gained 5.4 percent, the second-
biggest gain in the Dow, to $9.88. The company will mark the
unofficial start of the earnings season when it reports results
on Oct. 11.  A gauge of retailers in the S&P 500 rose 2.1 percent.
Target and Limited Brands Inc. helped September retail sales
beat analysts’ estimates as promotions drove consumers to
increase purchases amid concerns the economic recovery may
stall. Target jumped 4.3 percent to $51.91. Limited, owner of
the Victoria’s Secret chain, rose 0.8 percent to $40.59.  Yahoo! Inc. lost 1.7 percent to $15.65.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
isn’t anywhere close to making an offer for the company and
senior executives of the software maker aren’t involved in
discussions, two people familiar with the matter said. Yahoo
surged 10 percent yesterday on a Reuters report that Microsoft
may make a bid.  Trading Range  Excluding its dip to a 13-month closing low of 1,099.23 on
Oct. 3, the S&P 500 has mostly traded between about 1,120 and
1,220 for the past two months. Of the 14 other trading range
instances since 1990, more than 75 percent resulted in gains
over the following one, three and six months, according to
Birinyi Associates Inc., the Westport, Connecticut-based money
management and research firm.  The average trading range lasts about seven months, with
the shortest one beginning in March 1998 and lasting three
months, Birinyi data show.  “The market’s been in a trading range,” Wasif Latif, vice
president of equity investments at USAA Investment Management
Co. in  San Antonio , which oversees about $50 billion, said in a
telephone interview. “We’ll need clear economic data or policy
movements out of  Europe  to break out that range.”  Wall Street strategists say the S&P 500, after falling
within 1 percent of a bear market this week, will post the
biggest fourth-quarter rally in 13 years even after they cut
forecasts at a rate exceeded only during the credit crisis.  “Investors are way too bearish and are being swayed by
macro variables,”  Brian Belski , the New York-based chief
investment strategist at Oppenheimer, wrote in an e-mail on Oct.
4. “Fundamentals drive stocks,” he said. “U.S. portfolios are
not positioned for a positive third-quarter earnings season.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  