-- 
U.S. Cost of Hunger Was $167.5 Billion in 2010, Researchers Say

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-10-06T10:27:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/u-s-cost-of-hunger-was-167-5-billion-in-2010-researchers-say.html
The cost of hunger in the U.S., the
world’s largest economy, was $167.5 billion last year as the
recession in 2008 and a slow economic recovery pushed more
American households into food insecurity, researchers said.  The number of food-insecure and hungry Americans in 2010
rose 30 percent from 2007, Waltham, Massachusetts-based
 Brandeis University  said in an  online statement  yesterday,
citing a study led by university professor Donald Shepard.  Hunger’s cost to society includes lost productivity, poor
education, additional healthcare costs and charity donations to
keep families fed, the researchers said. A 2007 report by
Shepard estimated the U.S. hunger bill in 2005 at $90 billion,
the university said.  “This increase in food insecurity and America’s hunger
bill over these three years demonstrates the breadth of
suffering associated with this recession,” Shepard said in the
statement. “All Americans bear a part of these costs.”  The number of hungry and food-insecure Americans in 2010
increased to 48.8 million, up by 12 million from 2007,
according to the report.  Hungry Americans are ill more often than others, resulting
in estimated additional health care costs of $130.5 billion in
2010, according to the study. Poor education outcomes due to
hunger cost society $19.2 billion, while private donations of
food money and volunteer time to meet emergency food needs
amounted to $17.8 billion, the researchers said.  Consequences  “Hunger may not be obvious in America but this less
visible consequence of rising unemployment, flat wages and
growing poverty is becoming a real cost for every American
household,” Donna Cooper, a senior fellow with the Center for
American Progress who co-wrote the report, said in a statement.  The cost of hunger for every U.S. citizen was $542 in
2010, according to the study. Because the $167.5 billion
estimate is based on “cautious methodology,” the actual cost
of hunger and food insecurity to the nation is probably higher,
according to the university.  Last year, almost half of U.S. families seeking emergency
food assistance reported they had to choose between paying for
utilities or heating oil and food, 40 percent indicated they
had to pick between paying rent or a mortgage and food, while
more than a third had to choose between paying for medical
bills and food, the university said.  Florida  Surge  On a state level, Florida,  California  and  Maryland  had the
biggest jump in their hunger bill during the recession, the
study showed. The costs related to hunger and food insecurity
surged 62 percent in Florida, 47 percent in California and 44
percent in Maryland last year, the researchers estimated.  The U.S. hunger bill calculated in the study doesn’t
include the cost of federal nutrition programs of about $94
billion a year, Brandeis University said.  Sustained hunger reduction might be achieved through a mix
of policies to boost the pay of lowest-wage earners, increase
access to full-time employment and “modestly” expand
government nutrition programs, the university said.  “Expanding the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program
to all food-insecure households could cost about $83 billion a
year,” the researchers wrote. “While we do not recommend this
approach, we note that nonetheless it would cost the nation
much less than the most recent hunger bill.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 