-- 
UBS Said to Lend on New York Mall in Commercial Mortgage Push Amid Turmoil

-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 
2011-10-06T18:59:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/ubs-said-to-lend-on-poughkeepsie-mall-in-cmbs-push-amid-turmoil.html
UBS AG has committed to making a $176
million loan for a shopping mall in  New York , persisting with
efforts to boost its commercial-real estate financing even as
credit market gyrations prompt other lenders to retreat.  The bank originated the debt this week on the Poughkeepsie
Galleria, a 1.2 million square-foot shopping center, according
to a person familiar with the deal. The Zurich-based firm plans
on packaging the debt with other loans as securities this year,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the
negotiations are private.  UBS hired Ken Cohen, the former head of commercial-mortgage
bonds at Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., in May to bolster its
team as sales surged and lenders crowded the $600 billion
market. The debt has since been whipsawed as investors shun all
but the safest securities on concern that the global economic
recovery is faltering. JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its forecast for
issuance this year by as much as $15 billion from $45 billion.  Torie von Alt, a spokeswoman for UBS, couldn’t immediately
provide comment.  The extra yield investors demand to hold top ranked
commercial-mortgage bonds instead of Treasuries jumped to 323
basis points, or 3.23 percentage points on Oct. 4, the most
since February 2010, according to  Barclays Capital  index data.
Spreads on the Barclays Capital CMBS AAA Super Duper Index have
widened from 178 on April 26, the index data show.  “We haven’t seen stabilization yet,” Julia
Tcherkassova, a commercial-mortgage debt analyst based in New
York at Barclays Capital said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “Originators need to see that stability.”  Wall Street  has arranged about $25 billion in commercial-
mortgage backed securities this year, compared with about $11.5
billion in all of 2010, Bloomberg data show. Sales plummeted to
$3.4 billion in 2009 compared with a record $234 billion in
2007, the data show.  The number of firms looking to originate commercial
mortgages for sale as bonds quintupled to 25 from a year earlier
by December 2010, according to  Standard & Poor’s  report at the
time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  