-- 
UBS’s Former Russian CEO Leaves for Moelis Health-Care Unit

-- B y   W i l l   R o b i n s o n
-- 
2011-10-06T17:29:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/ubs-s-former-russian-ceo-leaves-for-moelis-health-care-unit.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ’s  Russia  Chief Executive
Officer Steven Meehan left to join Moelis & Co. as managing
director in health-care investment banking.  Moelis is hiring Meehan to expand its coverage of an
industry it says will be among the most active, the New York-
based bank said today in an e-mailed statement. Meehan was
responsible for UBS’s securities, investment banking and wealth
management units in Russia and the former Soviet republics.  “Given the rapidly changing regulatory environment and the
aging population, health care will be among the most active
industry sectors for the foreseeable future,” Moelis & Co. CEO
Kenneth Moelis said in the statement. “Our clients will be well
served by Steven’s almost two decades of health-care  investment
banking  experience.”  Meehan, 47, started at Moelis on Oct. 3, according to a
spokeswoman for the bank. UBS hired a new head of Russia last
year, and Meehan has been in a transitional role since then,
Torie von Alt, a spokeswoman for the Swiss bank, said.  He will be based in New York and report to Kenneth Moelis,
who left his role as president of UBS’s global investment bank
to found his own firm in 2007.  Meehan joined UBS in 1999 after working for  Salomon Smith
Barney  and Drexel Burnham Lambert, Moelis said in the statement.  UBS,  Switzerland ’s biggest lender, is planning to make its
investment bank “less complex and more focused,” according to
a presentation published on its website Oct. 4. UBS was already
shrinking the unit amid market turmoil that sapped client
business when it revealed last month a $2.3 billion loss due to
unauthorized trading.  Separately, Bora Sila, former head of retail investment
banking for the Americas at UBS, has joined Wells Fargo, the San
Francisco-based bank said in a statement today. Sila, who
started at UBS in 2009 and previously worked for Citigroup, will
be head of consumer and retail M&A.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Will Robinson in  New York  at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  