-- 
Mumbai Financial Hub Needs Homes to Meet Demand From Bankers Like Pandit

-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 
2011-10-07T05:39:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/mumbai-financial-district-needs-homes-to-meet-bankers-demand.html
Mumbai ’s new Bandra Kurla financial
district, already home to  India ’s biggest stock exchange and
international banks such as  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and UBS AG, is
missing a key ingredient: sufficient housing to meet demand.  Citigroup, UBS and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  led an exodus of
finance companies from the old Nariman Point financial hub in
south Mumbai to escape double midtown-Manhattan rents for
crumbling four-decade-old buildings. That’s fueling demand for
high-end homes in an area where more than 3 million square feet
of office space have been built and another 4 million square
feet are planned, according to broker Jones Lang LaSalle India.  Citigroup Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  and Mihir
Doshi,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s India head, are among those who
have prepaid for homes in the first residential tower being
built in the  Bandra Kurla  business center in the north of the
city, according to people with knowledge of the sales who asked
not to be identified as the purchases were private.  “The Bandra Kurla complex has a lot of potential, but has
been untapped as a residential hub,” said Ramesh Nair, managing
director for western India at Jones Lang LaSalle. “Many expats
and CEOs whose offices have moved here would prefer to stay in
this vicinity because of proximity to their offices and because
their children are enrolled in schools in the area.”  Demand for housing inside the 370-hectare (914-acres)
development, home to the National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.
and the market regulator, and in the Bandra East neighborhood
surrounding it, is rising as employees seek to cut commuting
times of two hours or more in the city of 18 million people that
spreads across 440 square kilometers (170 square miles).  Falling Prices  Prices in central Mumbai, where more than 10 million square
feet of premium homes are being built, have declined as much as
15 percent from the peak earlier this year, developer Orbit Corp.
said in August.  Apartments in  Signature Island , where Pandit and Doshi
bought, have doubled on a per-square-foot basis over four years
to about 40,000 rupees, said Kamal Khetan, chairman of  Sunteck
Realty Ltd. (SRIN) , the Mumbai-based developer with a majority stake in
the project that is expected to be completed by March. They are
selling for as much as $10 million each and range from 7,000
square feet to 11,000 square feet.  Thirty of the 80 apartments at Signature Island were sold
as of March, according to a company presentation. Only nine were
sold between October 2009 and March, and Khetan said about half
have now been sold, without giving an exact figure.  “Under these market conditions, luxury housing is always
the most difficult to sell,” said Bhaskar Chakraborty, an
analyst at Mumbai-based brokerage IIFL Ltd. Bandra Kurla “has
good infrastructure and potential, but apartments will only sell
at the right price point.”  ‘Lower Affordability’  Apartments outside the complex in Bandra East are selling
for between 15,000 rupees and 18,000 rupees a square foot, so
homes within the complex can command a maximum premium of 20
percent to 25 percent, Chakraborty said.  Mumbai home sales in August dropped to a 27-month low as
higher  interest rates  and prices close to a record crimped
demand, brokerage Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt. said in a Sept. 19
report. Registered sales declined 25 percent to 4,611 units from
a year earlier, it said.  Residential sales in the city dropped to a 30-month low in
the quarter ended June, according to Liases Foras Real Estate
Rating & Research Pvt.  “The lack of sales suggests that prices will correct
across Mumbai by between 15 percent and 20 percent with premium
housing being the worst hit as land costs in such projects can
contribute to as much as 70 percent of total costs,” said
Pankaj Kapoor, founder of Liases Foras.  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Realty Index gained 3.9 percent
as of 10:40 a.m. local time, paring this year’s loss to 39
percent. The benchmark Sensitive Index added 3.1 percent.
Sunteck’s shares rose 2.6 percent to the highest in five months.  Billionaire’s Playground  Signature Island apartments can be viewed by invitation
only and are targeted at senior company executives and
businessmen, said Sunteck’s Khetan in an interview in Mumbai.
Some of the buyers feature in the Forbes list of Indian
billionaires, he said, refusing to disclose their names.  Demand from wealthy buyers will drive up residential
property prices in the area because they are still trailing
commercial prices, said Khetan. In  Manhattan  in  New York  and in
cities such as  Hong Kong  and  Singapore , residential projects in
a business district tend to command premiums, he said.  “Our assumption is simple: If there is limited supply in a
central business district and if one markets well in a niche
segment, the prices of residential should at least match
commercial prices if not surpass them by two-to-three times,”
he said.  Expensive Offices  Units at NCPA Apartment, the only residential building
within the Nariman Point business area, sell for 100,000 rupees
a square foot, according to Jones Lang LaSalle. Mumbai is among
the 10 most  expensive  office locations in the world, with an
average rent of 51.08 pounds ($80) per square foot a year,
according to Knight Frank LLP.  Bandra Kurla, built on low-lying marshland on either side
of the Mithi River, was developed as south Mumbai became too
congested, forcing the city to expand northward. It has emerged
as the home of industries such as banking and finance, the
diamond trade, insurance, consulting firms, and the sales and
marketing operations of software companies, which moved out of
dilapidated buildings in Nariman Point.  The Bharat Diamond Bourse, the world’s biggest exchange for
spot trading of the gems, is in Bandra Kurla, and the U.S.
Consulate General is moving to the area from south Mumbai. A
 Sofitel  hotel will open in November and the area is home to an
international school run by Nita Ambani, wife of billionaire
 Mukesh Ambani , and the American School of Bombay.  Choosing Rooms  Today, the suburbs of North Mumbai are made up of sprawling
residential enclaves, high-tech corporate parks, nightclubs and
restaurants, multiplexes, malls and international hotel chains,
as well as the domestic and international airports.  Sunteck is allowing buyers at Signature Island to choose
the number of rooms they want in their apartments. Five to six
parking spaces are provided for each apartment. The facilities
will include a temperature controlled swimming pool, an
international spa brand and an exclusive club.  The project, being developed by Sunteck and Piramal Sunteck
Realty Pvt., a joint venture with Ajay Piramal Group, went on
sale in 2007, two years before construction began.  The developer won the bid for the 1.7-acre plot in a
government auction in 2006, paying 10,000 rupees a square foot.
It started sales at 21,000 rupees in 2007 and four years later
is selling them at almost double that, Khetan said.  Sunteck bid for another two plots in 2008 paying more than
32,000 rupees a square foot, three times the reserve price set
by the  Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority ,
responsible for the development of Mumbai city.  “Despite the strong probability of a correction of
residential property prices in many parts of Mumbai, locations
such as Bandra East are likely to see significant appreciation
on the back of demand for  office space  in the area,” said
Sanjay Dutt, chief executive officer for business at Jones Lang
LaSalle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 Apapuc1@bloomberg.net  