-- 
Hunger Opens Discussions on Biotech Wheat as U.K. Approves Trial

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-10-06T09:22:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/hunger-opens-discussions-on-biotech-wheat-as-u-k-approves-trial.html
Hunger has “opened the discussion”
about genetically modified wheat, said Shannon Schlecht,
director of policy at U.S. Wheat Associates Inc., a trade group.  The U.K.’s decision last month to approve a trial of wheat
that’s been genetically modified was “fantastic progress” in
getting biotech wheat accepted in  Europe , Schlecht said in an
interview yesterday before speaking today at the Home-Grown
Cereals Authority conference in  London . The U.K. trial does not
involve wheat grown for food.  Higher food costs have sent “tens of millions of people”
into poverty since late 2010, and the world’s hungry people may
soon exceed 1 billion again, Oxfam International said Aug. 3.
With a population set to grow to  9 billion people  by 2050, the
world’s farmers will have to produce 70 percent more food, the
 Food and Agriculture Organization  of the  United Nations  says.  “The conversation about biotechnology and crops has been
more open,” Schlecht said. “If you look at the FAO’s statement
of needing 70 percent more food in 40 years, we need to be
looking at technologies that can bring us to that level of
demand, and biotechnology is one of those factors that can help
us achieve that productivity.”  Wheat prices have gained 80 percent in the past decade and
corn has surged 74 percent. Food prices have more than doubled,
according to the UN.  Before genetically modified wheat is commercialized in the
U.S., regulatory approval for imports of modified grain would be
needed from buyers of its wheat, Schlecht said.  Farmers in  Africa  have started growing genetically modified
crops and some are interested in certain traits that may improve
food-grain production, Schlecht said. In 1996, six countries
were planting biotech crops compared with 29 countries today, he
said, citing the International Service for the Acquisition of
Agri-biotech  Applications .  U.S. Wheat Associates is based in Arlington, Virginia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 