-- 
Muni Yields at Two-Month High on Biggest Run in Two Years

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 
2011-10-06T18:19:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/muni-yields-at-two-month-high-after-biggest-jump-since-january.html
Yields on top-rated municipal debt
have recorded the biggest four-day increase in at least two
years as state and local governments brought $8.8 billion of 
debt to market.  Interest rates  for 10-year tax-exempt bonds climbed 16
basis points to about 2.45 percent today, the highest since Aug.
4, according to Bloomberg Valuation index data. Yields, which
move inversely to prices, surged about 10 basis points
yesterday, the most since Jan. 13. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  “The market collapsed based on the weight of supply,”
said Michael Pietronico, who manages $590 million as chief
executive officer at Miller Tabak Asset Management in  New York .  Yields will “probably inch up more over the next few days
and we would suggest investors take advantage of that,” he said
in a telephone interview.  Ten-year yields have rebounded since falling to about 2
percent last month, according to Bloomberg index, which begins
in January 2009.  States and municipalities as of today are set to sell
$10.58 billion of debt during the next 30 days, down $2.3
billion from yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the biggest one-day drop in two weeks. Still, borrowers
including the Triborough Bridge & Tunnel Authority and the
Oklahoma Turnpike Authority sold debt this week, which is set to
be the year’s busiest, according to Bloomberg data.  Refunding Drive  Municipalities refinancing debt will help drive tax-exempt
sales to about $75 billion this quarter, up from a projection of
$60 billion, Chris Mauro, a municipal-debt strategist at  RBC
Capital Markets  in New York, wrote in a report.  The price of U.S. Treasuries fell for a third day after
news that European leaders increased their efforts to resolve
their debt crisis. Yields on the benchmark 30-year bond
increased seven basis points to 2.93 percent at 2:01 p.m., after
falling to a two-year low.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 