-- 
UniCredit Said to Cut Staff as It Shakes Up Equities Unit

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i ,   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 
2011-10-06T16:06:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/unicredit-said-to-cut-staff-as-it-shakes-up-equities-unit.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Italy ’s biggest bank,
is shaking up its equities division as part of an investment
banking review to focus on its core markets, three people with
knowledge of the matter said.  The lender is cutting jobs in its equity brokerage,
including sales and derivatives based in London and Milan, said
one of the people, who asked not be identified because the plan
isn’t public. Among the options the bank is considering is
forming ventures with other firms, according to one person.  UniCredit’s corporate and investment-banking chief, Jean- Pierre Mustier, who previously ran Societe Generale SA’s
investment bank, is reviewing the unit as the company prepares a
business plan to be presented by year-end. Part of the strategy
is to concentrate the equity business in UniCredit’s four key
markets of  Germany , Italy, Poland and  Austria , said one person.  “All banks are reviewing their  investment banking  in the
current environment,” said Wolfram Mrowetz, chairman of
investment firm Alisei SIM in Milan, which oversees 200 million
euros ($268 million). “This division costs too much. A lot of
banks are refocusing on their commercial activity.”  Roberto Lazzarotto, global head of equity derivative sales
at UniCredit, is leaving the firm, according to a person
familiar with the matter. Reached on his mobile, Lazzarotto
declined to comment.  A spokesman for UniCredit declined to comment.  Mustier’s Overhaul  Mustier, who joined UniCredit in March, has hired former
colleagues Olivier Khayat and Patrick Soulard to increase
commissions and market share, particularly in advising on
mergers and in managing stock sales. The firm in May combined
the debt and equity businesses with merger advice and lending to
win more deals.  The European sovereign debt crisis will lead banks to
rethink their business models, focusing on costs, efficiency and
productivity, UniCredit Chief Executive Officer  Federico Ghizzoni  said in an interview Oct. 4. “Banks have to accept
that for the next two to three years their revenue will not grow
too much,” he said. “Banks need to be leaner, in their
structure and more focused on their core business.”  UniCredit rose 3 cents, or 3.8 percent, to 82.6 cents in
Milan trading. The stock is down 47 percent this year, valuing
the lender at 15.9 billion euros ($21.3 billion).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  