-- 
Union Carbide Judge Removed From $322 Million-Verdict Case

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-10-07T00:24:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/union-carbide-judge-ordered-off-of-oil-worker-s-asbestos-case.html
The  Mississippi  Supreme Court granted
a request by  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) ’s Union Carbide unit to disqualify
the judge who presided over an asbestos trial that ended with a
$322 million verdict against the company.  Union Carbide argued that state Circuit Court Judge Eddie
Bowen shouldn’t have presided over the trial that ended on May 4
because his father suffered from asbestosis, a disease caused by
the mineral that sickened plaintiff  Thomas Brown . The company
claimed the defense was denied a fair trial.  The high court yesterday ordered Bowen removed and stopped 
all action on the case until a new judge is appointed, without
addressing the status of the verdict.  “We find that a reasonable person, knowing all of the
circumstances, would harbor doubts about Judge Bowen’s
impartiality in this particular case,” the court said.  Bowen’s father filed two asbestos lawsuits, one of which is
still pending, and both his parents had settled a claim with
Union Carbide and other defendants based on a diagnosis of
asbestosis, according to the court’s ruling, which cited an
independent probe by the Dow Chemical unit.  Judy Herrington, a circuit court administrator, said in a
phone interview that Bowen said he isn’t permitted to comment on
the matter. The judge was sworn in at the Raleigh, Mississippi,
courthouse in September 2010, according to a statement the court
issued at the time.  Largest Ever  The May 4 award is the largest ever made to a single
asbestos case plaintiff, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A state punitive-damages cap would erase at least
$260 million.  Union Carbide is “gratified” by the state  Supreme Court 
ruling, a company spokesman, Scot Wheeler, said in an e-mailed
statement. The jury verdict was “outrageous and completely
unsupported by the facts and applicable law,” he said.  “We look forward to this case being remanded to the trial
court for further proceedings before a new judge,” said
Wheeler.  Brown’s lawyer, D. Allen Hossley, didn’t immediately reply
to after-hours voicemail and e-mail messages seeking comment.  His client developed asbestosis after being exposed to the
toxic fibers while mixing drilling mud on oil rigs in the  Gulf
of Mexico . He claimed Union Carbide and Chevron Phillips
Chemical Co. knew asbestos is toxic and didn’t warn him. Brown
is on oxygen 24 hours a day, Hossley has said.  The Raleigh jury had also found Chevron Phillips Chemical
liable for damages. That company is a joint venture of  Chevron
Corp. (CVX)  and ConocoPhillips.  The case is Brown v. Phillips Co., 2006-196, Circuit Court,
Smith County, Mississippi (Raleigh).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  