-- 
Venezuela Annual Inflation Accelerated for Fourth Straight Month in August

-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l   a n d   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 
2011-10-06T17:50:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/venezuela-national-consumer-prices-rose-1-6-in-september.html
Venezuela ’s inflation rate, the
highest of 78 economies tracked by Bloomberg, rose for a fourth
straight month in September on higher education costs and
increases in regulated food prices.  Year-on-year inflation quickened to 26.5 percent from 25.8
percent in August, the central bank said today in an e-mailed
report. Prices gained 1.6 percent from the previous month,
trailing the 2.1 percent median estimate of seven economists in
a Bloomberg survey.  The government has adjusted food price caps on basic goods
to avoid shortages ahead of a presidential election next year,
when President  Hugo Chavez  is running for a third, six-year
term. Price limits on milk and vegetable oil have risen twice
since a devaluation of the bolivar in January, while caps on
rice and corn flour increased as much as 26 percent on Sept. 2.  “The government has been tinkering with various price caps
over the last few months, which obviously will impact on
inflation,” said Daniel Snowden, an emerging markets analyst at
Informa Global Markets in  London . “You can see that fighting
price increases is very much at the bottom of their agenda.”  The government regulates the price of hundreds of basic
food goods to combat what they see as speculation by the private
sector.  Shortages  Education, communication, transport and health costs also
pushed consumer prices higher in September, rising 8.1 percent,
2.2 percent, 1.7 percent and 1.7 percent respectively, the bank
said.  While the government has raised regulated food prices, the
central bank’s scarcity index has also climbed this year. The
index rose to 14 percent in September, the highest since May
2010, the bank said today.  Currency controls, import restrictions and nationalizations
have dried up private investment in South America’s third-
largest economy, aggravating supply bottlenecks and reducing
competition among retailers and manufacturers.  With real negative  interest rates  at commercial banks,
consumers prefer to spend rather than save.  The extra yield that investors demand to hold Venezuelan
debt over U.S. Treasury bills fell 28 basis points to 1337 today
at 12:30 p.m. in  New York , according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI+.  Voter Discontent  Scarcities of milk, coffee, beef, chicken and sugar in 2007
contributed to voter discontent that resulted in the rejection
of Chavez’s plans to change the constitution.  Chavez, who has been in power since 1999 and is receiving
chemotherapy treatment for cancer, saw his approval rating rise
10 percentage points between July and September to 58.9 percent,
according to Caracas-based polling group Datanalisis.  The government has increased spending on housing and
agricultural programs this year as pillars of Chavez’s re-
election bid, helping to pull the country out of a two-year
recession and grow 2.5 percent in the second quarter from a year
earlier.  While the economy may expand more than 4 percent in 2011,
inflation is surging beyond the government’s target of 23
percent to 25 percent.  Consumer prices in the capital Caracas rose 1.5 percent in
September, while annual inflation quickened to 26.7 percent, the
bank said.  South America ’s largest oil producer hasn’t had
single digit inflation since 1986, according to the central
bank’s Caracas price index.  Downward Trend  Central Bank President Nelson Merentes said yesterday that
consumer price inflation is on a downward trend. He has said
that he hopes to slow annual price gains to less than 10 percent
by 2014.  Supply bottlenecks continue to be the main driver of
inflation and are unlikely to be solved in the medium-term, said
Munir Jalil, an economist at Citigroup Inc. in Bogota.  “Has there been a deceleration of inflation? I’d say no,”
Jalil said in a phone interview. “In Venezuela, inflation of 25
to 30 percent is the new normal. There aren’t any concrete
measures to slow inflation below that range.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 