-- 
Venture Firms Reduce Biotechnology Investment on FDA Risk

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-10-06T16:45:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/venture-firms-pull-back-biotechnology-investment-on-fda-hurdles.html
Venture capital firms are investing
less in experimental drugmakers and medical device makers
because of what they say are regulatory hurdles, a survey found.  Almost 40 percent of 150 venture capital firms that
responded to the survey have decreased their investment in life
sciences during the past three years, the National Venture
Capital  Association  said today in a statement. The same
proportion expect to continue to reduce their spending on these
companies over the next three years, a potential $500 million
loss, the association said.  “The process has gotten to be so long, and the capital
required so deep, that it’s becoming more and more difficult to
generate venture-type returns and therefore make it worth your
while to do it,” said Terry McGuire, co-founder and general
partner of Polaris Venture Partners and past chairman of the
association, in an interview.  Venture firms have shifted their investments overseas,
where McGuire says regulatory approvals come quicker. More than
one-third of survey respondents said they would increase their
spending in  Europe  and 44 percent in Asia, compared with 13
percent saying the same for  North America .  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration is taking steps to
address some of the industry’s concerns, Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg  said yesterday in a statement. The agency plans to
streamline regulations and speed up the approval process for
some drugs, among other changes.  The agency  approved  25 new drugs as of Sept. 15 and at that
pace, by year’s end, would clear the most new drugs in since
2004, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  