-- 
Verizon, Other ‘Net Neutrality’ Challenges Consolidated

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-10-06T22:40:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/verizon-six-other-net-neutrality-challenges-consolidated-in-washington.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s
challenge to the Federal Communications Commission’s so-called
net neutrality rules was consolidated with six others into a
single case before the U.S. Appeals Court in  Washington .  The U.S. Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation, which
ordered the move, said the selection of the Washington court was
random. Verizon sued in Washington last week to overturn open-
Internet rules set to take effect Nov. 20, arguing the FCC lacks
authority to regulate how companies provide Internet service.  The rules, adopted in December, would prevent Internet
service providers from blocking or slowing the flow of Web
content to homes and businesses. It’s the second time New York-
based Verizon has asked the Washington court to overturn the
regulations. The court dismissed the first lawsuit April 4,
saying the challenge was premature.  “We’ve believed all along that this is the proper venue,”
said Edward McFadden, a spokesman for Verizon in Washington,
adding that the Washington court has previously handled similar
cases involving communications, the Internet and broadband.  Neil Grace, an FCC spokesman, said the agency “stands
ready to defend its Open Internet Order in any court of
appeals.”  In addition to Verizon, six other challenges were filed in
federal courts in  Boston ,  New York ,  San Francisco , Philadelphia,
and Richmond, Virginia.  Open Internet Order  The FCC’s Open Internet Order requires Internet service
providers to disclose their network-management practices and
performance, prohibits providers from blocking access to
competitor websites or applications, and bars providers from
“unreasonably discriminating” in the speed of transmissions.  Last year, the FCC’s censure of Comcast Corp. for
interfering with subscribers’ Internet traffic was vacated by
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit,
which ruled the agency lacked the authority to do so.  Gigi Sohn , the president of Public Knowledge, an advocacy
group that supports the FCC’s rules, said that had the cases
been assigned to a different court, there would have been a
greater chance that a decision in favor of the FCC could put the
issue before the U.S.  Supreme Court .  “It would have been more attractive to the Supreme
Court,” to have two appeals courts with opposite rulings, she
said in an interview.  The Verizon case is Verizon v. Federal Communications
Commission, 11-1356,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the District of
Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 