-- 
Vietnam Raises a Key Rate to Support Dong, Fight Inflation

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-07T05:43:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/vietnam-central-bank-raises-refinancing-rate-to-15-from-14-.html
Vietnam ’s central bank increased its
refinancing rate for the first time since May, as the nation
tries to steady its currency and tame  Asia ’s fastest inflation.  The State Bank of Vietnam raised the refinancing rate to 15
percent from 14 percent, effective Oct. 10, it said in  a
statement  on its website yesterday. The central bank weakened
the dong’s reference exchange rate for the third straight day
today, to 20,653 per dollar from 20,648 per dollar.  Vietnam has struggled to regain investor confidence hurt by
inflation of more than 20 percent, a trade deficit and risks in
the banking sector. While the rate increase is welcome, the
central bank should further tighten monetary conditions if
necessary to reassure the market that economic stability remains
its top priority, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  “Vietnam had to raise rates, but a rate hike won’t change
the weaker dong trend,” said Shigehisa Shiroki, chief trader on
the Asian and emerging-markets team at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd.
in  Tokyo . “The country has a trade deficit and like many other
Asian nations now, money is not flowing into Vietnam either due
to risk aversion. The dong will continue to see downward
pressure.”  The currency was little changed at 20,843 per dollar as of
12:00 p.m. in Hanoi, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The weakening of the reference exchange rate on Oct. 5 was the
first change since Aug. 24. The dong was devalued for the fourth
time in 15 months on Feb. 11, by about 7 percent, partly to help
curb the  trade gap . The VN Index of stocks fell 0.8 percent.  No ‘Huge Effect’  The rate increase is “unlikely to have a huge effect on
lowering inflation,” Masato Miyazaki, the IMF’s Washington-based
mission chief for Vietnam, said in an e-mailed statement
received today. The central bank should abolish the cap on
deposit rates for dong to “help normalize the monetary
transmission mechanism,” Miyazaki said.  Asian currencies from the Philippine peso to  South Korea ’s
won have tumbled against the dollar over the past month, as
concern the world economy faces a slump prompts investors to
pare bets on emerging markets.  Confidence in the dong is “shaky,” according to Viet
Capital Securities, which said yesterday the currency was
trading at 21,500 per dollar on the black market. The trade
deficit widened to $1 billion in September from a revised $396
million in August.  Policy Efficiency  Vietnam’s move is the first change to a key  interest rate 
under new central bank Governor Nguyen Van Binh and contrasts
with neighbors such as Malaysia and  China , which left borrowing
costs unchanged in recent weeks to shield their economies.  The increase in the refinancing rate is aimed at improving
“the efficiency of monetary policy” and regulating “market
interest rates,” the central bank said in yesterday’s statement.
It left its repurchase rate at 14 percent and its discount rate
at 13 percent.  The State Bank of Vietnam increased the repurchase,
refinancing and discount rates earlier this year in an attempt
to stem credit growth, slow price gains and stabilize the
economy. It raised the repurchase rate in nine steps from 7
percent at the start of November last year to 15 percent in May
2011, before cutting it in July to 14 percent.  The government said in August the central bank will
consider lowering rates if inflation slows.  The latest refinancing rate increase is “an encouraging
sign, but we’ll have to see whether it continues,” said  Thomas Harr , head of Asian foreign-exchange strategy at Standard
Chartered Plc in  Singapore . “Because interest rates in Vietnam
are too low, you have a lot of money shifting into gold.”  Gold-Backed Loans  The  State Bank  of Vietnam asked commercial banks to provide
details of gold-backed loans issued since the start of the year
until Oct. 7, according to a separate statement dated yesterday
and posted on its website today.  Commercial banks will also be obliged to file weekly
reports on gold-backed lending to the central bank, with the
first reports due Oct. 12, it said. The reporting will help the
central bank monitor and stabilize the gold and foreign-exchange
markets, it said.  The July rate reduction and a government push in August for
lower commercial borrowing costs “have created uncertainties
about the monetary policy strategy,” Trinh Nguyen, a Hong Kong-
based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc, wrote in a note released
yesterday before the rate increase was announced.  Consumer prices climbed 22.42 percent in September from a
year earlier, compared with 23.02 percent in August. Vietnam’s
inflation rate remains the fastest in a basket of 17 Asian-
Pacific economies tracked by Bloomberg.  The central bank yesterday also raised overnight interest
rates on electronic transactions to 16 percent from 14 percent,
effective Oct. 10.  Domestic economic imbalances pose a risk to Vietnamese
banks’ asset quality, Moody’s Investors Service said last month.  Vietnam’s gross domestic product may rise 5.8 percent in
2011, the slowest pace since 2009, Asian Development Bank data
show. The economy, a production hub for companies from  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  to Honda Motor Co., expanded 6.8 percent in 2010.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  