-- 
Volcker Rule Draft Puts U.S. Banks’ Short-Term Trades Under More Scrutiny

-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-10-06T19:16:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/volcker-rule-draft-puts-short-term-bank-securities-trading-under-scrutiny.html
U.S. banks seeking to gain from or
hedge against short-term price movements in securities and
derivatives markets would face restrictions under a proprietary-
trading ban, according to a draft of the so-called Volcker rule.  The 205-page document, dated Sept. 30 and obtained
yesterday by Bloomberg News, is the latest version of the rule
to emerge as it’s being written by four federal banking
regulators and is scheduled to be released on Oct. 11 by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. The rule would take effect on
July 21, 2012.  The financial regulators didn’t define short-term in the
draft, writing that “it is often difficult to clearly identify
the purpose for which a position is acquired or taken and
whether that purpose is short-term in nature.” Regulators would
presume that positions held for 60 days or less are banned
short-term trades unless a bank can prove otherwise, according
to the document.  The proposal includes a series of exemptions for trades
designed to hedge credit,  interest rate  or other specific risks.
A bank could be free of the Volcker restrictions if it is
hedging a specific position or a portfolio of risks across
multiple trading desks. Hedging trades would need to have a
“reasonable,” not a full, correlation with the underlying
risk. Banks could also win exemptions if they are hedging a risk
they are “highly likely” to face in the future.  “It’s slightly more lenient than the statute. They’ve
taken a moderate course on hedging activities as the statute
allows them to do,”  Dwight C. Smith , a Washington-based partner
at  Morrison & Foerster LLP , said in an interview.  Risky Investments  The Volcker rule, which is named for its original champion,
former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , is intended to
reduce the chance that banks will make risky investments with
their own capital that put their deposits at risk. The provision
was part of the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul enacted last year,
and policy makers are drafting regulations to enforce it.  Banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and Morgan Stanley have shut or made plans to spin off
stand-alone, proprietary-trading groups to prepare for the rule.  Foreign banks would be covered by the rule if they have
U.S.-based staff involved in the restricted trades, according to
the draft. Overseas lenders have complained to U.S. regulators
that a strict interpretation of the rule may force them to fire
or relocate U.S. employees who are involved in proprietary
trading, even if no American money is at risk.  “The ‘solely outside the U.S.’ exemption is unbelievably
narrow,” Douglas Landy, New York-based partner at Allen & Overy
LLP, said in an interview. By limiting those who qualify for the
exemption, the Volcker rule is now “extremely broad,” he said.  Related Regulation  The Sept. 30 draft was developed by the Fed, FDIC,
Securities and Exchange Commission and Office of the Comptroller
of the Currency. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission will
vote on related regulation but it’s not on the schedule for the
new few rulemaking meetings,  Steve Adamske , agency spokesman,
said today.  The latest draft “seems to have some complex and
potentially burdensome provisions that may impede Congress’s
stated intent to allow for traditional market-making activities
and sponsorship of funds,” Kenneth Bentsen Jr., an executive
vice president at the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association, said in an e-mail yesterday.  “This is a proposed rule, and given its magnitude and
impact on U.S. markets, it will be subject to significant
comment and hopefully consideration by the regulators to ensure
against undermining the depth, liquidity and viability of U.S.
financial markets,” Bentsen said.  Banned Positions  Banks also would be required to institute compliance
programs to monitor when traders are moving toward banned
positions. Those internal controls are designed to ensure the
firm doesn’t place too much capital at risk.  “There are presumptions of prohibited conduct. It’s almost
Kafkaesque: You’ve got to prove you’re not prop trading even if
you have no such intent. You’ve got to prove that you can come
within these exemptions and the criteria are demanding,”  Donald
N. Lamson , a Washington-based counsel at Shearman & Sterling
LLP, said in an interview.  Lawmakers who crafted the Dodd-Frank Act exempted market-
making from the rule, along with certain forms of hedging and
underwriting, because of concerns that a broad ban on
proprietary trading could bring some U.S. and world markets to a
halt. Firms including Goldman Sachs and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , both
based in  New York , serve as market-makers when they accept the
risk of trades to facilitate client orders.  At Disadvantage  U.S. Representative Spencer Bachus, chairman of the House
Financial Services Committee, said the proposal puts the country
at a disadvantage. When the bill was crafted, the premise was
“that  Europe  and the rest of the world were going to prohibit
all sorts of banking activities, therefore we didn’t have to
worry about competitiveness,” Bachus, an Alabama Republican,
said in a telephone interview last month. “But the other
countries have taken a whiff on this.”  Senators  Carl Levin  of  Michigan  and  Jeff Merkley  of  Oregon ,
both Democrats who pushed for the rule, have urged regulators
through comment letters, public speeches and staff meetings to
maintain its maximum reach.  Merkley and Levin were responsible for including language
in the Volcker rule that would ban transactions that result in a
“material conflict of interest” between the banking entity and
its clients, customers or counterparties.  Details from the Sept. 30 draft were published earlier by
the  American Banker .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in  Washington  at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  