-- 
Wal-Mart Brings in Consultants to Help Keep Its Shelves Stocked

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 
2011-10-07T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/wal-mart-s-empty-shelves-erode-walton-s-legacy.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , once a case
study in moving and selling goods, is now turning to consultants
for help with the most basic of retail tasks: Keeping its
shelves stocked.  The retailer has hired firms including Acosta Inc. in the
U.S. and Retail Insight in the U.K. to walk the aisles and track
whether hundreds of items are in stock. Products are missing as
a plan to add thousands of items to stores this year crowds
storage space and tighter labor budgets leave workers less time
to stock shelves.  “You cannot keep cutting labor hours and expect the
shelves to get filled, especially when you have more products to
be replenished,”  Colin McGranahan , an analyst with Sanford C.
Bernstein in New York, said in an interview. “Store-level
execution is coming down. There are only a few ways to cut
corners without unintended repercussions, and that’s what is
happening at Wal-Mart.”  Wal-Mart’s reputation as the most efficient and cheapest
merchant has eroded amid nine straight quarters of declining
U.S. same-store sales. Pressured by unemployment and rising fuel
costs, Wal-Mart shoppers are making fewer trips and visiting
other stores more often, according to a study from WSL Strategic
Retail.  David Tovar , a Wal-Mart spokesman, said yesterday in an
interview that the company’s in-stock levels have continued to
improve and now are at “historical highs.” He declined to
disclose what those historical highs are.  “We’re pleased with the progress we’ve made,” he said.  Suppliers’ Support  Still, one Wal-Mart supplier said in-stock levels are worse
today than in the past. During the summer, less than 90 percent
of items in a typical basket of goods were available for
shoppers, said the supplier, who declined to be named because
his discussions with Wal-Mart are private.  Keeping shelves full is a focus for Wal-Mart, and the
retailer is asking for support to keep stores stocked up, the
supplier said.  Wal-Mart always excelled at getting products to the right
place at the right time. Co-founder  Sam Walton  revolutionized
retail distribution, moving goods from factories to shipping
centers to stores faster and cheaper than rivals, said Nelson
Lichtenstein, a professor at The University of  California ,  Santa
Barbara  and author of “The Retail Revolution: How Wal-Mart
Created a Brave New World of Business.”  Supply Chain  The retailer’s supply chain practices are now studied by
others, and Chief Executive Officer  Mike Duke  and his
predecessor, Lee Scott, both rose through Wal-Mart’s logistics
department.  Today’s retail environment is different from the one Walton
faced. In addition to  Target Corp. (TGT)  and  Kroger Co. (KR) , Wal-Mart
today is battling foes such as online merchant Amazon.com Inc.
and  Germany ’s Aldi deep-discount chain, which has more than
1,100 U.S. stores.  Consumers said Aldi was the most affordable supermarket in
a March survey by consulting firm Market Force Information.
Amazon offers 80 times as many products as Walmart.com, at lower
prices, according to Wells Fargo analyst Matt Nemer.  Only half of Wal-Mart’s shoppers now say it has the lowest
prices, the WSL survey of 1,500 consumers found.  Wal-Mart’s response was a guarantee to match rivals’ prices
to lure households making less than $70,000 a year, which
account for two-thirds of Wal-Mart’s U.S. business while doing
only about one-fifth of their shopping there.  ‘Trusted Retailer’  “We’ve got to deliver on these principles that had made us
a trusted retailer -- that we’ll save them money and have what
they need,”  Bill Simon , Wal-Mart's top U.S. executive, has told
investors.  The return of about 8,500 items to stores, which will
continue throughout the year, has boosted Wal-Mart’s inventory
more quickly than sales for five consecutive quarters.  Simon told investors in June that the inventory increase 
was intentional and a result of returning the items to shelves
and sourcing more products directly from Asian manufacturers. 
At an investor conference later that month, Simon said he was
focused on improving in-stock levels.  “The only thing that really matters to us is whether the
product is on the shelf or not,” he said.  Searching Storerooms  Wal-Mart’s shelves are pockmarked with empty spaces because
employees can’t find products in storerooms fast enough, said
Vic Gallese, an independent retail consultant based in  Fort
Worth ,  Texas .  While the world’s largest retailer has computer systems to
manage its ordering and flow of goods, at the store level,
“you’re trusting your inventory to a person, and that takes
skill and hours of labor,” said Gallese, who works with
retailers to improve in-stock levels.  For example, a product like salsa could be missing from the
shelf while there is a full case of it that has been misplaced
in the back room due to a lack of space, Gallese said.  “Once your backroom gets out of control with inventory,
things can circle the drain in a hurry for you,” Gallese said.  Out-of-stock items lead to lost sales and customers,
according to a 1991 study of about 3,000 consumers in the
Journal of Retailing. When faced with an unavailable item, 14
percent of respondents said they would go to another store
rather than choose a different brand or size.  “The original retailer may not only lose that consumer for
the exact item they were out of that day, they may lose the
consumer entirely,” Stanley E. Griffis, an associate professor
of logistics at Michigan State University’s Broad School of
Business, said in an interview. “Until someone invents the
Replicator device from ‘ Star Trek ,’ there will always be out-of-
stock experiences.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in  New York  at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  