-- 
Cantor Decries ’Growing Mobs’ as Wall Street Protests Spread to Washington

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 
2011-10-07T16:29:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/wall-street-march-reaches-washington-as-obama-cites-americans-frustration.html
The Occupy  Wall Street  protesters
came to Washington, where they were compared favorably to the
Tea Party by Vice President Joe Biden while House Majority
Leader  Eric Cantor  called them “growing mobs” dividing the
country.  President  Barack Obama  also weighed in, expressing empathy
with the demonstrators in the nation’s capital while stopping
short of endorsing their movement.  “The American people understand that not everybody’s been
following the rules, that Wall Street is an example of that,”
Obama said yesterday at a White House press conference. Occupy
Wall Street began three weeks ago in  Lower Manhattan  and has
spread to cities from Houston to San Francisco with the help of
postings on Twitter and websites.  Several thousand protesters set up camp yesterday in
Washington’s Freedom Plaza, two blocks from the Treasury
Department. They staged drumming circles, set up sign-making
tents, held a mini-rock festival and spoke against Wall Street
excesses. Then they marched past the White House, rallied
outside the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and for a time blocked
traffic along K Street, where some lobbying firms are located.  Nationwide, the protesters have criticized the government
for propping up major banks such as  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Bank of
America Corp. with a $700 billion taxpayer-funded bailout. They
also called for more government aid to create jobs for the
unemployed and voiced anti-war and anti-trade sentiment.  ‘Growing Mobs’  Cantor, a Virginia Republican, discussed the marches today
at a “Value Voters Summit” in Washington organized by the
Family Research Council’s advocacy arm.  “I, for one, am increasingly concerned about the growing
mobs occupying Wall Street and the other cities across the
country,” Cantor said. “Believe it or not, some in this town
have actually condoned the pitting of Americans against
Americans.”  Republican presidential candidate  Herman Cain  told
reporters in Houston yesterday that the Wall Street protesters
are “trying to disrupt the whole country.”  “This is an attempt by the left to create a distraction
from the failed policies of this administration,” Cain said.  The protests have “a lot in common with the  Tea Party ,”
Vice President Biden said yesterday.  “What are the people up there on the other end of the
political spectrum saying?” Biden said. “The same thing: ‘Look
guys, the bargain is not on the level anymore.’ In the minds of
the vast majority of the American -- the middle class is being
screwed.”  Fed’s Fisher  Richard Fisher , president of the Federal Reserve Bank of
 Dallas  told an audience in  Fort Worth ,  Texas , yesterday, that he
was “somewhat sympathetic” to the protests.  “We have too many people out of work,” Fisher said. “We
have very uneven distribution of income.”  National union leaders based in Washington moved to embrace
the protests as they reached the capital. Richard Trumka,
president of the AFL-CIO, the largest U.S. labor federation,
told reporters this week that the demonstrations were
reminiscent of a union march on Wall Street last year.  Speakers at a rally in  Washington  yesterday said their
efforts were inspired by union-backed protests in Madison,
 Wisconsin , this year against Republican moves to curb union
benefits.  “Madison was our inspiration,” Gloria English, 51, a
bartender and housecleaner from Owings,  Maryland , said in an
interview. “The country noticed.”  Not all participants in the Washington march were ready to
usher union leaders to the head of the protest parade.  ’’This is much bigger than my union affiliation,’’ Lisa
Oberg, a 32-year-old actor from Baltimore who joined in the
Washington protests, said. “This is about the people. My union
has nothing to do with why I’m here.”  Cuomo’s View  In New York, where the Occupy Wall Street protests
continued yesterday, Democratic Governor  Andrew Cuomo  said, “A
lot of people are feeling the pain, and when people are feeling
the pain they look for an outlet, and that’s what I think you’re
hearing from the protesters.”  The causes run from opposition to the death penalty to
income inequality, according to Cuomo, who defended Wall
Street’s role in the  New York  economy.  “Wall Street is a major economic engine for the state,”
he said at a press conference. “When all is said and told, 20
to 25 percent of the state’s income comes from Wall Street.”  New York City Police Commissioner  Raymond Kelly  told
reporters yesterday that the protests have cost his city about
$2 million in overtime so far.  ‘Tax Wall Street’  In  Sacramento ,  California , yesterday, about 100
demonstrators gathered in a small park downtown named after
labor organizer Cesar Chavez.  “Fight Back,” and “Heal America: Tax Wall Street” were
among the signs held by demonstrators.  “They are right, this is class warfare,” Nathan Appete,
who said he was a 24-year-old nursing student from Fresno, said.
“This is a war against the middle class by those big banks.”  About 300 protesters participated in Austin, Texas. In
Houston, Dustin Phipps, a 24-year-old premed student, was among
the organizers of several hundred protesters who had met online.
They gathered in a downtown park and walked four blocks to the
JPMorgan Chase Tower.  “They got bailed out; we got sold out,” was among the
chants Phipps led over a red megaphone.  ‘Get a Job’  Watching from across the street, Peggy Chilton, a 52-year-
old oil industry accountant, said, “I came to mock them. They
need to get a job. These are rich, white college students whose
professors don’t like the Tea Party.”  In  San Francisco , police and city crews dismantled an
encampment outside the Federal Reserve Bank’s building in the
Financial District early yesterday that had been set up by
Occupy SF protesters.  “This department always facilitates the right to protest
and engage in free speech,” San Francisco Police officer Albie
Esparza said. “That wasn’t the problem. However you have to do
that while being within the law, and it came down to violations
of local ordinances and state laws.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  