-- 
Housing Industry Asks U.S. Congress to Adopt ‘No Harm’ Principle

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t   a n d   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 
2011-10-06T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/weakened-housing-industry-lobbyists-ask-congress-to-adopt-no-harm-stance.html
There was a time when Jerry Howard
and his lobbyists at the  National Association of Home Builders 
would buttonhole lawmakers to ask for a favor or policy fix.  Today, confronted with stagnant home prices, mounting
foreclosures and the thinning ranks of housing lobbyists, Howard
and his remaining allies are asking for something new.  “Shut up,” Howard said, paraphrasing his message to
lawmakers. “Stop saying we’re going to eliminate the mortgage
interest deduction. Stop saying we’re going to require everyone
to put 20 percent down on a house. Stop saying there’s no role
for the federal government.”  Builders and their pro-homeownership allies are regrouping
amid the worst housing slump since the Great Depression. Fannie
Mae and  Freddie Mac , the largest sources of home lending in the
U.S., are dependent on taxpayers for survival. Defaults are
mounting,  home prices  are stagnant and a fifth of borrowers owe
more on their mortgage than their property is worth.  Trade groups for homebuilders and mortgage bankers are
feeling the pain, too, cutting staff and lobbying budgets. Many,
including the National Association of Realtors, are shifting at
least some of their focus away from Washington, training their
members to educate the public and politicians about the value of
homeownership.  Rare Defeat  Long a powerhouse of deep pockets, strategic alliances and
troops of politically engaged local activists, the housing
industrial complex suffered a rare political defeat last month
when Congress refused to block an automatic decrease in the size
of loans that can be guaranteed by  Fannie Mae , Freddie Mac and
the  Federal Housing Administration . As of Oct. 1, the government
won’t buy or guarantee any loan greater than $625,500, down from
$729,750. Real estate agents and homebuilders fought to preserve
the higher limits, saying the change would hurt home sales.  “We don’t believe, frankly, that the way we’ve been
successful in legislative and regulatory battles in the past is
going to cut it this time,” said Howard, chief executive
officer of the National Association of Home Builders. “It’s
almost like a perfect storm.”  Among trade groups, the  NAHB  has been hit particularly
hard, with membership falling 40 percent since 2006, to 150,000
companies. Staff has shrunk by a third and lobbying expenditures
in the first half of 2011 were about a fourth of the $4.6
million the group spent in 2008.  Realtors Step Up  Frustrated by the reception they’re getting in  Washington ,
the association, like the Realtors, is relying more on its
grassroots, training members how to get the message out to their
communities.  In Louisville,  Kentucky , Chuck Kavanaugh has teamed up with
the Louisville Urban League and other groups to convince
lawmakers that homeownership remains a valuable goal for the
country’s economy and social fabric.  Their message to local leaders and the home offices of
House and Senate members: “Don’t make it harder right now,”
said Kavanaugh, executive vice president of the Home Builders
Association in Louisville. “Stop and take a breath.”  The National Association of Realtors is undertaking its own
grassroots effort with an eight-month bus tour across the U.S.,
part of its “Home Ownership Matters” campaign to educate
consumers about protecting the “ American dream  of
homeownership.”  “In Washington, the challenge is you have a lot of well-
intentioned people who don’t understand the impact of
decisions,” said Ron Phipps, NAR’s president. “We’re better
off with those well-intentioned people stepping back instead of
coming up with solutions that have unintended consequences.”  Staff Reductions  The association, which has cut staff by about 10 percent,
spent $10 million on lobbying in the first half of this year.
That puts the Realtors on a path to exceed their record 2009
total of $19.4 million, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics in Washington, which tracks campaign finance and
lobbying.  The Realtors’ jump in lobbying spending stands alone. In
addition to the homebuilders, the  Mortgage Bankers Association 
cut spending, reporting $1.2 million in lobbying in the first
half of the year, down from $4.2 million in 2008, according to
the Center for Responsive Politics.  “Our association, other associations in the housing space,
have had to contract,” said Bill Killmer, the mortgage group’s
chief lobbyist. “You see MBA continuing to maintain an active
political presence, but working toward a time when we can raise
the level of our political activity.”  Shifting Political Climate  Complicating matters is the shifting political climate on a
subject that in the past has transcended partisan politics, with
Republicans and Democrats united behind affordable
homeownership.  The Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac bailout, now at more than
$170 billion, has many politicians rethinking their allegiance
to the cause. Some, including President  Barack Obama , want the
government less involved in the mortgage market.  Budget cutters, in the form of a deficit-reduction
supercommittee, have put the mortgage interest deduction on the
table, a once-unthinkable act. The panel is charged with finding
$1.5 trillion in budget savings over the next decade by Nov. 23.  Today, Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a
Montana Democrat, will hear ideas for revising tax breaks for
homeowners, including a capital gains exemption for homeowners
who profit from selling their primary residence.  Regulation Changes  The Mortgage Bankers Association is keeping an eye on the
supercommittee for that reason, Killmer said. Mostly, though,
the association is mobilizing members to talk to lawmakers and
congressional staff about rulemaking. That was on the agenda
last week when 50 mortgage bankers went from a Washington
conference to meet with senior aides and lawmakers on  Capitol
Hill .  Of chief concern is an effort by regulators to write
minimum standards for mortgage borrowers. As drafted, the risk
retention plan would require homebuyers to put at least 20
percent down on a mortgage to qualify for the best rates.  Housing lobbyists, lenders and consumer groups are united
against the proposal, which they say would deny mortgages to
millions of would-be homebuyers and do little to reduce
defaults.  Overall, the market’s problems are so intractable that a
mortgage policy overhaul is unlikely to make it onto the
congressional agenda until after the 2012 elections.  ‘Do No Harm’  “Our longer-term worry is that you do no harm to a housing
economy that’s already in a very fragile state,” Killmer said.
“The single biggest thing is the overall macro economic
recovery. You’ve got to restore consumer confidence so that
people will open up their wallets.”  To some extent, the industry is getting help from the same
economy that’s hurting it. Lobbyists and trade group members
don’t expect Congress to do anything, such as reducing the
deduction for mortgage interest, that might hurt the recovery.  “I can’t imagine that another blow could be struck”
against the struggling industry, said Susan Benedetti, a vice
president at First National Bank Alaska in Anchorage who was in
Washington last week for the mortgage bankers conference. “I
would be shocked.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net ;
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  