-- 
Rugby World Cup Victory Would Elevate All Blacks Brand Past NZ$100 Million

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-10-07T01:54:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/world-cup-win-would-lift-all-blacks-brand-past-nz-100-million.html
A first Rugby World Cup title in 24
years would take the All Blacks brand value past NZ$100 million
($77 million), lifting  New Zealand ’s national team to the same
level as top-20 European soccer clubs, according to Brand
Finance Plc.  Should the All Blacks win the Oct. 23 World Cup final in
Auckland, their brand valuation would rise by NZ$12 million to
NZ$108 million on improved merchandising and sponsorship
opportunities, said Brand Finance, which advises companies
including brewer  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  and bank Standard Chartered Plc.  “It’s about taking the next step up because I’m pretty
sure the brand could work harder,” Tim Heberden, managing
director, Brand Finance  Australia , said in a telephone
interview. “That next level of partnerships maybe need a bit of
gloss from the trophy.”  The All Blacks have won three-quarters of their 481 Test
matches since 1903, international rugby’s best win ratio. They
took their only World Cup title in 1987 when the tournament was
last played in New Zealand. Since then, the team has lost a
final, three semifinals and a quarterfinal. They host  Argentina 
in the last eight on Oct. 9 in Auckland.  While the All Blacks’ estimated NZ$96 million brand worth
is dwarfed by the 412 million-pound ($638 million) valuation of
record 19-time English soccer champion Manchester United, it
places them on the fringe of  Europe ’s top-20 clubs.  Four-time European champion Ajax ranked 23rd last week in
Brand Finance’s survey of the continent’s top 30 teams with an
estimated brand value of 46 million pounds.  ‘Against the Tide’  Rather than being reliant on World Cup success, the equity
of the All Blacks is underpinned by a win ratio that’s crept up
over 80 percent since rugby went professional in 1996 and their
status as the game’s most-recognized marque, according to Simon
Arkwright, chief executive officer of Wellington-based Sport
Research Group.  “They’ve done that slightly against the tide in that while
they’ve been the top-ranked team for basically the last 24
years, everybody is aware they haven’t had a little gold cup in
the cabinet,” Arkwright said in a phone interview. “They’re
pretty solid in terms of being the sport’s No. 1 brand.”  The biggest threat may come from  South Africa , Arkwright
added. The defending champion Springboks are seeking an
unprecedented third title this month and face fellow two-time
winner Australia in the quarterfinals.  Facebook Following  When the All Blacks became the first New Zealand brand to
gain one million Facebook followers in August, the Springboks’
page was the next-best among national rugby teams with about
390,000. More than 800,000 of the All Blacks fans came from
overseas, the Wellington-based New Zealand Rugby Union said.  The All Blacks’ 10 sponsors include  Adidas AG (ADS) , Air New
Zealand Ltd. and  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , according to their  website .
Adidas has sponsored the All Blacks since 1999 and three years
ago extended its contract through 2019. Upon renewing the deal,
Adidas CEO Herbert Hainer described them as “one of the most
inspirational and talented sports teams in the world.”  “We’ve done exceptionally well despite our pretty average
World Cup record,” Steve Tew, the NZRU’s CEO, said in a
telephone interview. “If we were lucky enough, and good enough,
to win this one, or any of the future World Cups, then that
would enhance things.”  A victory in this month’s final at  Eden Park  in Auckland
may help attract previously rugby-shy companies, Arkwright said.  “If you were to bring in a new partner that previously
hadn’t occupied the rugby space, then a world championship would
give more comfort at an executive or board level in terms of
signing off on some big dollars,” Arkwright said.  Balancing Act  Maximizing the All Blacks’ commercial potential is
necessary in ensuring the game’s health at all levels in New
Zealand and also requires a balancing act because of their
heritage and place in society, Tew said.  “All Blacks rugby generally is a part of what New Zealand
is,” said Ron Palenski, chief executive of the New Zealand
Sports Hall of Fame in Dunedin. “Playing rugby is one of the
few things that we’ve been able to do, historically, better than
anyone else. It’s helped shaped the identity of New Zealanders
more than most other things. The New Zealand Rugby Union is very
well aware of going too far.”  Sponsors twice got it wrong in the World Cup buildup.  Adidas drew the ire of New Zealanders over what rugby fans
said were exorbitant prices for All Blacks’ replica jerseys,
while negative reaction forced  Telecom Corp of New Zealand Ltd. (TEL) 
to cancel a campaign encouraging New Zealanders to abstain from
sex to show their support for the All Blacks. Telecom said it
had “misjudged public feeling.”  “The financial opportunities are important and that does
kind of feed all of the activities that the NZRU carry out,”
Brand Finance’s Heberden said. “They can’t just sit back. They
have to make sure that they push it as far as deemed to be
reasonable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Auckland at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 