-- 
Yankees Turn to Second-Cheapest Player, Ivan Nova, in AL Playoff Decider

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-10-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-06/yankees-turn-to-second-cheapest-player-ivan-nova-in-al-playoff-decider.html
The  New York Yankees , with a $202
million payroll that’s the highest in  Major League Baseball , are
counting on their second-lowest-paid player to get into the next
round of the postseason.  Rookie pitcher Ivan Nova will get the start in tonight’s
decisive Game 5 of the American League Division Series against
the  Detroit Tigers . The winner advances to the AL Championship
Series against the  Texas Rangers .  Nova, a 24-year-old right-hander, is making $432,900 this
season, less than 2 percent of the $24.3 million CC Sabathia is
hauling in as the Yankees’ No. 1 starter. By comparison,
Sabathia was paid an average of almost $740,000 for each of his
33 regular-season starts.  “I’ve got the most important game of my life,” Nova said
at a news conference. “It’s the time to do what I’ve been doing
all year. It’s the time to step up for the team. We continue in
the playoffs or we go home.”  Nova had a 16-4 record with a 3.70 earned run average in
his first full season in the major leagues. He’s won 13 straight
decisions, including his Game 1 playoff victory, and emerged as
the Yankees’ second-best starter behind Sabathia, a former Cy
Young Award winner who went 19-8 with a 3.00 ERA.  “I love this kid’s determination to get better, to never
go down again, and to win,” said Yankees manager  Joe Girardi ,
who briefly sent Nova down to the minor leagues this season.
“That’s what I see from him. He’s a very hard worker and it’s
paid off.”  Nova’s salary is the second-lowest of any player on the
Yankees’ postseason roster, with infielder  Eduardo Nunez  making
about $13,000 less.  No. 2 Starter  Even so, Nova has moved into a No. 2 starter role that was
supposed to be manned by  A.J. Burnett , who is being paid $16.5
million this season. Burnett had been relegated to the bullpen
after going 11-11 with a 5.15 ERA during the regular season and
only started Game 4 against the Tigers because the opening game
was suspended by rain.  The Yankees beat the Tigers 10-1 in Game 4 behind Burnett
to force a decisive fifth game in New York. Visiting teams have
won eight of the 14 decisive games since the advent of division
series play in 1995, including seven of the past eight.  Now the 27-time World Series champions will turn to Nova,
whom the Yankees signed out of the  Dominican Republic  at age 17.
Girardi described Nova as “laid back” and “relaxed,” and the
rookie’s demeanor on the mound has drawn comparisons to  Andy Pettitte , who helped the Yankees win five championships and had
a record 19 postseason victories.  Talked to Pettitte  Nova said he spoke to Pettitte before taking over for
Sabathia when Game 1 of the ALDS was suspended by rain after 1
1/2 innings. Nova picked up the win by holding the Tigers to two
runs and four hits over 6 1/3 innings.  “Who’s got more success than him in the playoffs?” Nova
asked. “One thing that he told me is that if you’ve got trouble,
keep in mind that one pitch can get you out of the inning.”  While Nova didn’t factor in the decision in three of his
final four regular-season starts, he hasn’t lost since June 3
against the  Los Angeles Angels .  Nova will be the first rookie to start a postseason game
for the Yankees since Chien-Ming Wang in 2005.  “He’s been successful for us all year long and he threw
well the first playoff game,” Girardi said. “A lot of times
that’s the one you worry about the most.”  Nova will be opposed by Doug Fister, who took the Game 1
loss after allowing six runs in 4 2/3 innings after taking over
for  Justin Verlander . Fister, 27, had gone 8-1 with a 1.79 ERA
in 10 starts for the Tigers in August and September after being
acquired in a trade with the  Seattle Mariners .  “This is what baseball is all about,” Tigers manager Jim Leyland told reporters. “We’ve got a fifth game at Yankee
stadium. It doesn’t get much better than that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  