-- Actress Loves Aristocrat in Joe Wright’s Stage Debut
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2013-02-28T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/actress-loves-aristocrat-in-joe-wright-s-stage-debut.html
It’s curtains up on filmmaker Joe Wright’s new career as a theater director.  Wright, known for “Anna Karenina” and “Atonement,” has
chosen Arthur Wing Pinero’s backstage comedy “Trelawny of the
Wells” (1898) for his debut.  The play, at  London ’s Donmar Warehouse, stars Amy Morgan as
Rose Trelawny, a popular actress in melodramas of the 1860s. She
decides to leave the stage when she falls in love with
aristocratic Arthur Gower.  Members of Gower’s stuffy family reject her, and she tries
to go back to the stage. She finds she can’t act in the crude
old barnstormers any more. She’s grown up.  Gower’s tyrannical grandfather (Ron Cook) visits Rose and
she shows him old theatrical memorabilia which remind him of his
theater-going youth. The cast and director beautifully handle
the back-and-forth subtlety.  The first act of the play is another matter. Rose’s acting
troupe gather to say farewell. Pinero pokes good-natured fun at
their pretensions.  Wright directs it as if it were one of the 1860s
productions which Rose stars in. The acting is deliberately
hammy. The props are pointedly fake. The landlady is a man in
drag (Ron Cook again), scuttling like a British pantomime dame.  Self-referential it may be. Effective it isn’t. When the
production slips back into this overdone mode, as it does every
so often, the tension lags. The comedy falters. It’s not so much
close-up as close down. By the end, the balance is about half
success against half faltering.  The cast throw themselves into the hamminess with gusto,
and those of them who are given a chance to calm down are great.
Amy Morgan is a sweet Rose, and Susannah Fielding amusing as an
actress who becomes a theatrical producer during the story.  Patrick Marber does a good job in adapting the play by
cutting out minor roles and trimming scenes. Rating: ***.  Miller’s Barber  In the wake of an excellent  biography  of  Jonathan Miller ,
his 1987 production of “The Barber of Seville” reappears at
English National Opera to remind us of his talents.  It’s a simple, period-costume staging set in a single room.
There are zesty comic sequences -- the self-important Bartolo
getting his glasses caught in the strings of a harpsichord is a
treat. There’s enough freedom for good performers to shine.  In this revival, Andrew Shore dazzles as Bartolo, and his
inventive slapstick hits the spot. Lucy Crowe makes a superb
Rosina too: Her luscious voice is as winning as her comic gifts.  Nobody else quite matches them, and conductor Jaime Martin
plods through the score like an old dray horse. You can’t have
everything. Rating: ***.  “Trelawny of the Wells” is at the Donmar Warehouse, 41
Earlham Street, Seven Dials, London WC2H 9LX. Information:
 http://www.donmarwarehouse.com  or +44-844-871-7642  “The Barber of Seville” is in repertoire at English
National Opera, London Coliseum, St. Martin’s Lane, WC2N 4ES.
Information:  http://www.eno.org , +44-20-7845-9300.  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,
 Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich Jaroslovsky  on tech.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com  or
https://twitter.com/ThompsonWarwick.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 