-- Mad Austrian Beats, Starves Girl Held in Cellar: Movies
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-02-28T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/mad-austrian-beats-starves-girl-held-in-cellar-movies.html
A little girl begs for food,
speaking into an intercom system from a dark cellar as tears
stream down her cheeks. She is so hungry she will eat whatever
he brings, she says. A man upstairs bawls down the phone.  “OBEY! OBEY! OBEY!”  The dreadful tale of Natascha Kampusch, an Austrian girl
who was kidnapped at the age of 10 and starved, beaten and
locked away in a cellar for eight years, is the subject of a
film that opens in German cinemas today. “3096 Days” is based
on her  book , and portrays her ordeal with grim show-don’t-tell
realism.  Shot in English by a German team who worked closely with
Kampusch, the movie focuses on the gruesomely fascinating
relationship between the victim  -- played by Amelia Pidgeon as
a 10-year-old and Antonia Campbell-Hughes as a teenager -- and
her deluded captor-tormenter.  Wolfgang Priklopil (Thure Lindhardt) was an out-of-work
telecommunications engineer who threw himself under a train
after her escape. He spent months preparing her windowless, 2-
meter (6.5 feet) by 3-meter prison in his cellar before he
grabbed her on her way to school one day and bundled her into
his white van.  The film is claustrophobic and intense, with much of the
action taking place in the dark, cramped cell. Priklopil is by
turns violent and conciliatory, offering presents and even a
cake for Kampusch’s 18th birthday.  Shower, Walk  She uses his good moments to wheedle extra freedoms and
treats out of him -- a clock, a shower in the house upstairs, a
night-time walk around the garden.  Thankfully the movie doesn’t speculate on Priklopil’s
disturbed psyche, merely showing his abuse rather than seeking
to explain it.  He exhorts Natascha to forget about her previous life and
become the woman he “made” for himself. She at times appears
compliant, yet chronicles his beatings blow by blow on rolls of
toilet paper.  Pidgeon as the 10-year-old Kampusch presents an endearing,
strong-willed little girl with a penchant for chocolate
biscuits. The older Natascha portrayed by Campbell-Hughes
appears more fragile. She is perilously thin -- in 2004,
deprived of food, Kampusch’s weight was 38 kilos (84 pounds).  Anyone who saw the real Kampusch giving her poised
interview on Austrian television shortly after her escape may
find Pidgeon’s portrayal closer to the original. Yet Campbell-
Hughes’s performance also betrays an understanding that, beyond
his obvious domination, there’s a deeper tier where she holds
sway.  Single Survival  “It was clear that only one of us would survive, and in
the end it was me, not him,” Kampusch is quoted as saying.  Among the most moving scenes are those where she recreates
elements of a normal life in her tiny cell. The young Natascha
plays school, acting both the part of the stern teacher and the
pupil. As a teenager, she dances alone to rock music. It is her
will to live and her ability to see the reality of her situation
-- despite her isolation -- that makes Kampusch’s terrible story
at least partly uplifting.  As Kampusch grew up, Priklopil began bringing her to his
bed. She doesn’t write about the sex abuse in her book. Yet she
has sanctioned the movie and is actively promoting it.  The film shows him attaching their wrists together with
plastic locking strips to prevent her escape. Resistance is
futile. She is even shown deriving pleasure from the sex in one
brief scene, to be filled with self-hatred afterwards.  It is the only time we see her suicidal. She sets fire to
her cell with an electric hob and toilet paper, extinguishing it
before she chokes to death.  Priklopil grows less careful. In one scene, Natascha is
furious with herself for not exploiting a trip to a hardware
store to escape. In another, she seeks help in the restrooms of
a ski resort, yet the woman she asks understands no German.  Kampusch escaped when she was vacuuming Priklopil’s van. He
took a call on the phone; the gate was open; she left the vacuum
running and scarpered. Rating: ***  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,
 Warwick Thompson  on London theater,  Jason Harper  on cars and
 Rich Jaroslovsky  on tech.  To contact the reporter on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 