-- Magyar Telekom Rises Most Since June on Dividend Decision
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-02-28T16:52:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/magyar-telekom-rises-most-in-8-weeks-on-dividend-bet.html
Magyar Telekom Nyrt., the Hungarian
phone unit of  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , gained the most in eight
months as management proposed keeping the dividend unchanged
following the first increase in sales since 2007.  Shares gained as much as 6.7 percent and last traded 4.4
percent higher, the biggest jump since June 29, to 407 forint at
the close in Budapest. Volume of trading was more than seven
times the three-month average. Management proposed holding the
dividend at 50 forint per share at 2010 and 2011 levels, the
company said in a statement to the Budapest bourse today.  Magyar Telekom sales rose for the first time in five years
in 2012 as the company started selling energy services, helping
balance a drop in fixed and mobile voice revenue. The dividend
overshadowed for investors the unexpected fourth-quarter loss
and management forecasts for declining earnings this year.  “Investors are primarily focused on the size of the
dividend,” Gergely Palffy, a Budapest-based analyst at KBC
Securities, said in an e-mail before the dividend decision.  Sales rose 3.4 percent in the October-December period from
a year ago to 165 billion forint ($733 million), boosting full-
year revenue by 1.6 percent, the first increase since 2007.  The loss attributable to  owners  of the parent company was
1.6 billion forint in October-December, compared with a 40.3
billion-forint loss a year earlier, as the share of high profit-
margin voice revenue declined and as a new telephone tax wiped
out profit. The mean estimate of six analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was a profit of 505 million forint.  Call Tax  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, an indicator closely watched by analysts and
investors, declined 21 percent to 37 billion forint as a new
phone-call tax cost the company an extra 4.4 billion forint,
compared with the year-ago period.  Ebitda fell 9.1 percent to 52.5 billion forint when
excluding investigation-related costs and provisions, severance
expenses and extraordinary taxes. It may decline by 4 percent to
7 percent this year while sales revenue may decline as much as 3
percent, Chief Executive Officer Christopher Mattheisen forecast
in the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  