-- Ahold Leaves Door Open to Acquisitions Ahead of ICA Cash Influx
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-02-28T11:18:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/ahold-to-buy-back-shares-as-fourth-quarter-profit-miss-estimates.html
Royal Ahold NV, the Dutch owner of
the Stop & Shop chain, left open the possibility of  acquisitions 
as it considers how to utilize cash raised from the $3.1 billion
disposal of its stake in Swedish retailer ICA.  Any idea will be considered in the search for growth, Chief
Executive Officer  Dick Boer  said by phone after Amsterdam-based
Ahold reported a drop in fourth-quarter profit and plans to buy
back 500 million euros ($657 million) of shares.  “We have the opportunity as a company to build on the
capabilities we have to grow our business from an organic point
of view as well as from an acquisition point of view,” he said.
“I don’t exclude any possibility on how we look at growth.”  Ahold this month announced the disposal of its 60 percent
stake in ICA, leading to speculation as to what it would do with
its excess cash. The company has expressed interest in  Harris
Teeter Supermarkets Inc., (HTSI)  the U.S. grocer that’s exploring a
sale, people with knowledge of the matter said last week. Ahold
today declined to comment on Matthews, North Carolina-based
Harris Teeter, whose market value exceeds $2.1 billion.  “Until such time as Ahold decides what to do with the ICA
proceeds, investors will fret that it could be recycled into
injudicious acquisitions,” analysts at Exane BNP Paribas wrote
in a note today. “They’ll have to worry a little more as no
decision has emerged today.”  Ahold  shares  rose 1 percent to 10.99 euros at 12:16 p.m. in
Amsterdam. They’ve advanced 8.4 percent this year.  Harris Teeter  After completion of the buyback and the ICA sale, the
company will have almost 3 billion euros at its disposal for
acquisitions, according to  James Grzinic , an analyst at
Jefferies International in  London .  “Maintaining strong levels of liquidity at a time when M&A
opportunities seem to be arising thick and fast seems a very
sensible course of action,” Grzinic wrote in a note. Harris
Teeter would be “an ideally suited candidate,” he said.  Harris Teeter disclosed this month that it hired JPMorgan
after receiving advances from two private-equity firms.  Ahold today reported  free cash flow  at a record of 1.2
billion euros in 2012. The company proposed a 10 percent
increase to its  dividend  to 44 euro cents a share.  Under Boer, the grocer is pushing sales growth online,
adding pick-up points for commuters to grab ordered groceries in
 Europe  and the U.S., and expanding internet retailer Bol.com.
The owner of the Dutch Albert Heijn chain aims to triple online
sales to 1.5 billion euros by 2016. In addition, Ahold added
stores in the Netherlands via the purchase of shops from C1000
and Jumbo and the acquisition of Genuardi outlets in the U.S.  ‘Declining Market’  Ahold is having a “harder time” with non-food in the
Netherlands, with customers “even more cautious in their
spending,” Boer said. Though with the acquisition of Bol.com,
the company had “double-digit growth in non-food,” he added.  “We’re in a growth area in a declining market. If the
market was growing again it would be an even more beneficial
situation,” the executive said.  Fourth-quarter net income fell to 158 million euros from
270 million euros a year earlier as Ahold took a writedown of 88
million euros for software related expenses. Analysts expected
net income of 265 million euros, according to the average of
eight estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Underlying operating income rose 4.1 percent to 355 million
euros, beating the 344 million-euro average estimate of eight
analysts. Operating margin fell to 4.5 percent of sales from 4.7
percent in the year-earlier period amid higher wages in the
Netherlands and increased promotional activity.  Stronger Sales  Offering discounts “is a new reality,” Boer said in a
phone interview. The CEO said he raised the target for the
company’s 2012-2014 cost reduction program to 600 million euros
from 350 million euros to be sure Ahold “can finance the value
proposition” for its customers. The grocer is investing in
private labels for every price point, he said.  “We remain cautious in our outlook for 2013,” Boer said
in a statement today.  Sales rose 7.5 percent to 7.8 billion euros in the fourth
quarter, led by stronger U.S. sales than some analysts
anticipated, Ahold said in January. For the whole year, sales
gained 8.5 percent, while only growing 3.5 percent at constant
exchange rates. Ahold doesn’t expect any dramatic change in the
 exchange rate  this year “from the current position,” Chief
Financial Officer Jeff Carr told journalists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  