-- Ahold Fourth-Quarter Profit Falls Short of Expectations
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-02-28T06:10:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/ahold-fourth-quarter-profit-falls-short-of-expectations.html
Royal Ahold NV, the Dutch owner of
the U.S. Stop & Shop chain, said it will start a buyback of 500
million euros ($657 million) after reporting profit that fell
short of analysts’ expectations.  Fourth-quarter net income fell to 158 million euros from
270 million euros a year earlier as it took a writedown of 88
million euros for software related expenses, the Amsterdam-based
company said in a statement today. Analysts expected net income
of 265 million euros, according to the average of eight
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “We remain cautious in our outlook for 2013,” Chief
Executive Officer  Dick Boer  said in the statement. “We will
stay focused on simplifying our business to reduce costs.”  Under Boer, Ahold is pushing sales growth online, adding
pick-up points for commuters to grab ordered groceries in  Europe 
and the U.S. and expanding internet retailer Bol.com. The
company hopes to triple online sales to 1.5 billion euros by
2016.  He’s also focusing expansion on businesses the company
controls, which led to the disposal of its stake in  Sweden ’s
largest food retailer ICA this month for $3.1 billion. Ahold
added stores in the Netherlands via the purchase of shops from
C1000 and Jumbo and acquiring Genuardi outlets in the U.S. The
Dutch retailer may be interested in  Harris Teeter Supermarkets
Inc. (HTSI) , people with knowledge of the matter said last week.  Fourth-quarter underlying operating income rose 4.1 percent
to 355 million euros, beating the 344 million-euro average
estimate of eight analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Operating
margin fell to 4.5 percent from 4.7 percent in the year-earlier
period.  “We expect Ahold’s margins will continue to be pressured
in 2013,” John Kershaw and Andrew Gwynn, analysts at Exane BNP
Paribas, wrote in a report on Feb. 25. “It faces currency
headwinds the U.S.-listed peers do not and Ahold’s earnings
momentum is inferior to its U.S. quoted peers. We struggle to
see the investment attraction given the relative pressure on
Ahold’s profits.”  Sales rose 7.5 percent to 7.8 billion euros in the fourth
quarter, led by stronger U.S. sales than some analysts
anticipated, Ahold said in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  