-- Mail.ru Declines Most in Six Months as Usmanov Reduces Stake
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-02-28T17:14:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/mail-ru-falls-most-in-almost-six-months-as-usmanov-sells-stake.html
Mail.ru Group Ltd. (MAIL)  fell the most in
more than six months as billionaire Alisher Usmanov’s USM
Holdings Ltd. cut its stake in the Russian-language e-mail and
social networking company by about 7.4 percent.  Mail.ru’s global depositary receipts slid for the first
time in four days, slumping 10 percent, the most since Aug. 15,
at the close in London.  USM’s unit Ardoe Finance Ltd. sold 15.5 million shares at
$34.25 each, the arranger of the sale  Morgan Stanley (MS)  said in an
e-mailed statement today. That represents a stake of 7.4 percent
in the Moscow-based company and raised Usmanov about $532.2
million.  “The main shareholder sells after the company announces
strong results and record dividends, which looks odd,”
Konstantin Chernyshev, an analyst at UralSib in Moscow, said by
phone today. That means the shareholder  “doesn’t believe in
further growth potential of the stock,” Chernyshev said.  Mail.ru said earlier this week it will pay $899 million in
special dividends after reducing its stake in  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and
exiting investments in  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  and Zynga Inc.  The company, part-owned by China’s  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) 
and South Africa’s  Naspers Ltd. (NPN) , also said net income rose 37
percent last year to 8.5 billion rubles ($278 million), matching
the median estimate of five analysts in a Bloomberg survey. It
expects revenue growth of 25 percent to 28 percent this year.  “Our price target is $32 per GDR, which we see as fair
value for this stock,” Chernyshev said.  After the sale, USM owns about 17.9 percent in Mail.ru and
will be unable to sell additional shares for six months, the
company said in a statement yesterday. USM is a newly created
umbrella company which holds assets of Usmanov, the 28th richest
man in the world as per the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index , and
his partners.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  