-- Thailand to Start Peace Talks With Muslim Separatist Groups
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2013-02-28T10:18:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/thailand-agrees-to-start-peace-talks-with-southern-militants-1-.html
Thailand  formally agreed to start
peace talks for the first time with a key militant group
operating in Muslim-majority southern provinces that border
 Malaysia , which will help broker the discussions.  “We seek a long-lasting solution in southern Thailand,
including finding the root cause and an end to violence,” Thai
Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra told reporters today in
Putrajaya, Malaysia’s administrative center near  Kuala Lumpur .
Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak called the agreement
“merely the starting point of a long process.”  The talks between Thailand’s government and representatives
of the Revolution National Front, known as BRN, will begin in
two weeks and take place in Malaysia, Najib said. His government
arranged talks between the  Philippines  and a Muslim rebel group
that produced a peace deal last year.  The decades-long push for an independent state in four Thai
provinces bordering Malaysia has killed more than 5,000 people
since flaring up in 2004, when Yingluck’s brother,  Thaksin
Shinawatra , led the country. The insurgency has stifled
investment in the south, where 14 provinces account for about 80
percent of Thailand’s rubber production.  “This is not time to break out champagne and declare an
end to the conflict, but it marks a very major step forward,”
 Anthony Davis , a Bangkok-based analyst at security publisher IHS
Jane’s, said by phone. “It opens the way to a process of
acknowledged talks that may lead to an amelioration of the
conflict, to a lessening of violence.”  Devolving Power  The two sides signed an agreement to begin discussions
earlier today in Kuala Lumpur, with Ustaz Hassan Taib
representing the rebels and Pharadorn Phatthanatabutr,
secretary-general of the National  Security Council  of Thailand,
attending on behalf of the government. Before her 2011 election
victory, Yingluck said she would consider devolving power to
locals in the south in a special administrative zone.  Informal talks have taken place in the past between senior
members of Thailand’s government and military, and
representatives of separatist groups, according to Davis. The
“overwhelming majority of armed elements in the south are
almost certainly BRN-affiliated,” he said.  Thai marines killed at least 17 insurgents on Feb. 13 as
they repelled an attack on a base in Narathiwat province by 50
guerrillas dressed in military-style uniforms. Since 2004,
separatists have been implicated in the deaths of more than 150
teachers and education personnel, who they view as symbols of
government authority and Buddhist culture, New York-based  Human
Rights Watch  said in December.  Sophisticated Attacks  Rebel attacks are growing more sophisticated even as the
government spends billions of dollars, uses special security
laws and deploys 60,000 personnel to stop them, the
 International Crisis Group   said  in December. A resolution
requires adjusting the military’s approach and decentralizing
power to give local leaders more control, the group said.  Separatists have fought for an independent state in Yala,
Narathiwat, Pattani and part of Songkhla province since Thailand
formally annexed the autonomous Malay-Muslim sultanate in 1902.
About 95 percent of Thailand’s 67 million people are Buddhist.  Bangkok and Pattaya, a resort town on the Gulf of Thailand,
are the only localities to have direct elections for their
leaders. The two cities command a budget that’s almost equal to
the allocation for all of Thailand’s other provinces, whose
governors are appointed by the  Interior Ministry .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  