-- Airlines Top Rally as PMI Outlook Propels Gains: China
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-02-28T22:31:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/airlines-top-rally-as-pmi-outlook-propels-gains-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  rose for a third
day in New York, led by  China Eastern Airlines Corp. (CEA) , on
prospects manufacturing expanded for a fifth month, helping
sustain a recovery in the world’s second-largest economy.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. climbed 0.2 percent to 94.02
yesterday, trimming its February loss to 6.2 percent. China
Eastern, the second-largest domestic carrier, surged the most in
seven weeks after BOCOM International Holdings Co. recommended
buying airline stocks.  Spreadtrum Communications Inc. (SPRD)  led
technology stocks higher.  7 Days Group Holdings Ltd. (SVN)  climbed
after agreeing to a going-private deal at a higher price.  The  Purchasing Managers ’ Index will probably show today an
increase to 50.5 from 50.4 a month earlier, according to the
median estimate of 30 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
Bloomberg China-US gauge capped the longest stretch of gains in
a month, following a rally in Shanghai yesterday, on speculation
the government will announce measures to boost local markets
before the nation’s annual legislature meeting on March 5.  “If the PMI stays above 50, it will help drive up stocks
further,” Michael Ding, lead manager of the  China Region Fund (USCOX) 
at U.S. Global Investors Inc., which oversees $2.2 billion, said
yesterday by phone from San Antonio, Texas. “People are also
watching for possible new government policies out from the March
Congress meeting, including the economic growth target.”  ETF Jumps  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., advanced 1.2 percent to
$38.95, rising the most in a month. The  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index (SPX)  was little changed at 1,514.68.  The China-US gauge’s 6.2 percent  slump  in February is the
largest since May, after rising 8 percent in the previous two
months. Concern Chinese policy makers will take steps to curb
rising home prices sent shares lower, according to Ding at U.S.
Global Investors. Premier  Wen Jiabao  called for home-purchase
restrictions in cities with excessive price gains, according to
a government statement Feb. 20.  China Eastern’s American depositary receipts soared 4.1
percent to $21.12, rallying the most since Jan. 10. China
Southern Airlines Co. climbed 1.4 percent to a one-week high of
$27.55.  BOCOM International reiterated a rating equivalent to buy
on China’s aviation sector. Improving operation, lower jet-fuel
prices and appreciation of the Chinese  yuan  will help boost
airline earnings further, Geoffrey Cheng, an analyst at BOCOM in
Hong Kong, wrote in a report yesterday.  Spreadtrum Advances  China Eastern, based in Shanghai, was among the regional
top buys recommended by Deutsche Bank AG in a note on Feb. 26.
Passenger demand will grow 10 percent in 2013 to 2014 for  China
Eastern  and China Southern as business travel rebounds amid a
pickup of the Chinese economy, it said.  Jet kerosene  has slid in 11 straight days in Singapore,
extending its loss to 2.3 percent in February, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. China’s yuan has strengthened 0.1 percent
against the  U.S. dollar  this year, after rising 1 percent in
2012 in its third year of appreciation.  Spreadtrum, the Shanghai-based company whose chips are used
by mobile-phone makers including Huawei Technologies Co. and ZTE
Corp., jumped 5.9 percent to $17.51, the highest level since
Jan. 9.  Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp. (SMI) , an
integrated circuit foundry also based in Shanghai, advanced 4.4
percent to $2.83.  4G Development  China Mobile Ltd. (CHL) , the nation’s biggest wireless operator,
plans to purchase one million TD-LTD smartphones and data cards
as it expands a trial of its fourth-generation network this
year, according to a Feb. 27 e-mailed statement.  The 4G network development will be negative for the telecom
operators’ earnings over the next two years and positive for
equipment vendors, Bin Liu, an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in  Hong
Kong , wrote in a note yesterday.  China Mobile’s ADRs slid 0.6 percent to $54.8 in New York,
trading below its Hong Kong shares for the first time in three
days.  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. (CHU) , added 2.4 percent to
$14.57, the steepest gain since Jan. 9, while China Telecom
Corp. gained 1 percent to a one-week high of $52.01.  7 Days Group Holdings Ltd., China’s second-largest budget
hotel operator, climbed 1.5 percent to $13.37 in New York.  The company, based in Guangzhou, said yesterday that it
agreed to a buyout price of $13.8 per ADR, up from the $12.7
offer it previously received in September from private-equity
firms led by the Carlyle Group LP and  Sequoia Capital .  Worst Performer  Suntech Power Holdings Co., the world’s biggest solar
panel-maker, dropped 17 percent to $1.15. The company was the
worst performer on the China-US gauge.  Suntech, based in China’s Jiangsu province, is talking with
the local government of Wuxi about the possibility of financial
support as $541 billion of its bonds due March 15, ShiDinghuan,
president of the Chinese Renewable Energy Society and an adviser
to the nation’s cabinet, said Feb. 27. The company hired UBS AG
last year and began talks with creditors about how to refinance
the debt following a disclosure that it was a victim of fraud.  Ambow Education Holding Ltd., a Beijing-based tutoring
service provider, tumbled 10 percent to a record low of $1.17,
extending its slump this year to 48 percent.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  jumped 2.6 percent to
11,437.17 yesterday, the steepest rally since Jan. 2, while the
Shanghai Composite Index of domestic Chinese shares added 2.3
percent to 2,365.59, the most in a month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  