-- Thales CEO Sees Profit Uplift in Regional, Product Review
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2013-03-01T08:36:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/thales-ceo-sees-profit-uplift-in-regional-product-revie.html
Thales SA (HO)  Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Jean-Bernard Levy , 10 weeks into the job, said
he’s reviewing the regional and product focus at  Europe ’s
biggest defense electronics company to improve profitability.  Thales rose as much as 13 percent in Paris, the most in 13
years. Levy, the former  Vivendi SA (VIV)  CEO, said Thales is in a
“significant period of introspection ” about its future
direction. Cost cuts plans will be refined along with the
company structure, he said.  Levy was tapped in late December to succeed Luc Vigneron,
who was ousted by primary shareholders  Dassault Aviation SA (AM)  and
the French state after less than three years into an effort to
improve financial performance. The aerospace company has leaned
increasingly on booming commercial sales to  Boeing Co. (BA)  and
Airbus SAS as military demand has sagged.  “When you look at aerospace companies, we are still the
poor guy in the room,” Levy said yesterday in reference to
profit margins that trail competitors. The company will stick
with the cost savings plan Vigneron put in place “but with
different style,” Levy said.  Thales surged as much as 3.43 euros to 30.42 euros in
Paris, the most since 2000, and traded at 29.98 euros as of 9:32
a.m. Before today, the shares had risen 2.8 percent this year,
valuing the company, owned to 27 percent by the French state, at
5.5 billion euros.  Earnings Target  The operating margin last year rose to 6.5 percent from 5.7
percent in 2011, the company said today. The target for this
year is an earnings gain of as much as 8 percent, Neuilly-Sur-
Seine, France-based Thales said.  The company’s sales and Ebit figures beat consensus
estimates and free-cash flow and dividend increases are “key”
positive, Morgan Stanley analyst Rupinder Vig said in a report
this morning, rating the shares “overweight.”  “Today’s results are solid and the positive guidance for
2013 should be positively received by investors,” Vig wrote.  The maker of airliner in-flight entertainment equipment and
the radar for  France ’s Rafale combat jet  generated only about
22 percent of its 13.3 billion euros ($17.5 billion) in sales
from  emerging markets  last year, which have become increasingly
important for defense deals as western countries cut spending.  Emerging Markets  “We need to be much more emerging-market minded,” said
Levy. The review is focusing on “geography and product lines,”
while deals are not a priority, he said.  “I do not believe Thales problems will be resolved through
the magic touch of mergers and acquisitions,” the French
executive said.  Earnings before interest and tax, including a 35 percent
holding in warship maker DCNS, rose to 927 million euros from
749 million euros, the company said. The increase was driven by
a 37 percent jump in earnings from the commercial aerospace
business and cost cutting introduced by its former management.  Sales this year should remain stable, with growth in civil
activities offsetting a less favorable situation in defense,
Thales said. A French government review of defense priorities
will not affect Thales until next year, Levy said.  The company proposed a dividend of 88 cents, an increase of
13 percent compared with 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  