-- VimpelCom Expansion Seen Risking Debt Increase: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-02-28T13:12:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/alfa-bank-sees-vimpelcom-buyout-boosting-debt-russia-overnight.html
VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) ’s plan to expand
operations to  Canada  risks increasing the debt level for
 Russia ’s third-largest mobile phone company, according to Elina Kulieva, an analyst at OAO Alfa Bank.  “Where would the money come from if they were to make an
acquisition in Canada?” Kulieva, who rates VimpelCom the
equivalent of buy, said by phone from Moscow yesterday. “If it
means more debt, that is not good. An attempt to stretch to yet
another continent may look somewhat extreme for VimpelCom.”  American depositary receipts of VimpelCom are set for their
biggest monthly decline since November and are trading at the
lowest valuation in seven weeks versus  OAO MegaFon (MFON) , Russia’s
second-largest mobile phone company. The company has the third-
highest debt-to-earnings ratio among the region’s largest
carriers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Bloomberg
 Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  rose as  futures  on the RTS Index gained.  VimpelCom has an “interesting opportunity in Canada” and
may consider acquisitions to expand there, Chief Executive
Officer Jo Lunder said yesterday in an interview in Barcelona.
The Amsterdam-based company, which also operates in Italy and
Algeria, saw its share of revenue from Russia drop to 40 percent
in the third quarter from 42 percent in the previous three
months at a time  MegaFon , which is scheduled to report today
record sales for 2012, gained market share in the country.  ‘Biggest Portion’  VimpelCom gave up its rank as Russia’s second-biggest
mobile provider by subscribers to MegaFon in April 2010. The
Amsterdam-based company had 56.1 million customers in Russia in
the fourth quarter of 2012, compared with 71.2 million for  OAO
Mobile TeleSystems (MBT) , the country’s biggest mobile phone operator,
and 62.6 million for MegaFon, data by Moscow-based researcher
Advanced Communications & Media show.  “Why to seek exposure elsewhere when you lost share in the
market that produces the biggest portion of your revenue?”
Mansur Mammadov, who helps manage $100 million in Kazimir
Partners Ltd., said by phone from Moscow yesterday. “I am
puzzled over the geography and cost of their investment
strategy. We prefer MegaFon’s clear-cut, Russia-focused
investment case.”  Russia, Ukraine and other former Soviet states accounted
for 56 percent of VimpelCom’s  revenue  in the third quarter. The
company is scheduled to report fourth-quarter and annual results
on March 6.  The  Bloomberg Russia-US gauge  rose 0.6 percent to 100.68
yesterday, gaining for the first time in three days. Futures
expiring next month on Moscow’s dollar-denominated RTS equity
index rose 0.7 percent during  New York  hours to 153,730.  Higher Debt  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the biggest U.S. exchange-
traded fund that holds Russian shares, gained 0.6 percent to
$29.22 yesterday. The RTS Volatility Index, which measures
expected swings in the index futures, fell 2.1 percent to 21.81.  VimpelCom’s net  debt-to-earnings  before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization is the third highest among the
region’s peers, following The Hague-based  Koninklijke KPN NV (KPN)  and
 Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  of Milan. Its debt-to-Ebitda ratio was at
2.52 yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  MegaFon has probably kept its debt-to-ebitda ratio below
1.4, which may allow it to pay an additional dividend, Alfa
Bank’s Kulieva said.  VimpelCom began its global expansion, favored by Russian
billionaire shareholder  Mikhail Fridman , in 2011 when its
Moscow-based unit merged with Italy’s Wind Telecom SpA to create
the world’s sixth-biggest mobile phone company by subscribers.
VimpelCom’s unit Orascom gained control of Wind Mobile Canada
last month. Fridman’s  Alfa Group  is a shareholder of both
VimpelCom and Alfa Bank.  Management Change  MTS, as Mobile Telesystem is known, rose 3.3 percent to
$20.39, the biggest gainer on the Bloomberg Russia-U.S. Index.
The ADRs settled at a 19.3 percent premium to the company’s
Moscow-listed shares, the most since Nov. 13. The stock fell 0.2
percent to 261.10 rubles, or $8.55. One ADR is equal to two
ordinary shares.  OAO Rostelecom slid 4.3 percent to $22.94, the biggest drop
since Nov. 30, after Chief Executive Officer Alexander Provotorov said the company may “lose money” should the
government decide to replace management.  A replacement of Moscow-based Rostelecom’s management is
being discussed within the government, Interfax newswire
reported yesterday, citing Deputy Prime Minister  Arkady Dvorkovich  in comments that were confirmed by his spokeswoman.  Oil, Russia’s biggest export earner, rose 0.1 percent to
$92.76 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday.
 Brent crude  for April settlement declined 0.7 percent to $111.87
a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange. Urals crude slid
1.1 percent to $108.88.  Russia’s ruble strengthened 0.3 percent to 30.5325 per
dollar, gaining for the first time in three days. Ruble futures
showed the currency rising 0.3 percent to 30.617 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  