-- Halliburton, KBR Burn Pit Suit Thrown Out by U.S. Judge
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-03-01T00:39:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/halliburton-kbr-burn-pit-suit-thrown-out-by-u-s-judge.html
Halliburton Co. (HAL)  and KBR Inc. are
entitled to the same legal protection as U.S. armed forces when
serving as military contractors, a judge ruled, dismissing
claims over so-called burn pits in  Iraq  and  Afghanistan .  U.S. District Judge Roger Titus threw out 57 consolidated
lawsuits against the companies brought mainly by military
personnel who claim they suffered damaging health effects from
exposure to the contractors’ pits, where items including medical
waste, paints and pesticides are burned in war zones.  “The critical interests of the  United States  could be
compromised if military contractors were left ‘holding the bag’
for claims made by military and other personnel that could not
be made against the military itself,” Titus said in a decision
released yesterday in Greenbelt,  Maryland .  The remedy for the allegedly injured service members is
through military and legislative processes, not the courts,
Titus said.  Andrew Farley, KBR’s executive vice president and general
counsel, said in an e-mailed statement that the company is
pleased by the ruling, especially its emphasis on non-judicial
means of redress.  “We look to the courts to continue this positive trend in
other pending cases,” Farley said.  Susan Burke, an attorney for the plaintiffs, said in a
phone interview that Titus’s ruling will be appealed. She
declined to comment further.  A phone call to Halliburton requesting comment on the
ruling wasn’t immediately returned.  Contract Terms  The plaintiffs claim that the Houston-based companies
ignored the terms of contracts with the U.S. that required safe
and environmentally sound waste disposal for troops.  Titus’s decision marks a reversal of an earlier ruling in
the same set of cases.  In September 2010, Titus said that KBR, the largest U.S.
military contractor, and Halliburton must face the suits and
that “courts must be prepared to adjudicate cases that
ultimately expose defense contractors to appropriate
liability.”  In yesterday’s decision, Titus cited a September 2011
ruling by the U.S. appeals court in Richmond in an unrelated
case where the court said a soldier’s claim against KBR for
injuries from electric shock was barred by the “political
question doctrine.” The doctrine prevents courts from reviewing
certain actions taken by other branches of government.  ‘Binding Precedent’  That case “creates new, binding precedent with respect to
whether this court has subject matter jurisdiction over
plaintiffs’ claims,” Titus wrote.  KBR faces other suits alleging harm from its military
contracting activities and has said it will appeal an $85
million jury award to 12 U.S. soldiers who claim the company
negligently exposed them to toxic chromium dust at a worksite in
Iraq in 2003.  The case is In Re  KBR Inc. (KBR) , Burn Pit Litigation, 09-2083,
U.S. District Court for Maryland (Greenbelt).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  