-- Amazon Said to Seek Up to 500,000 Square Feet in NYC
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-02-28T22:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/amazon-said-to-seek-up-to-500-000-square-feet-in-nyc.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s biggest
online retailer, is seeking as much as 500,000 square feet of
 office space  in  New York City , two people with knowledge of the
company’s plans said.  Amazon, based in Seattle, wants at least 250,000 square
feet (23,000 square meters) to start, with the flexibility to
double its space within seven years, one person said. The two
people asked not to be identified because the talks are private.  A deal for a half-million square feet would greatly
increase Amazon’s presence in New York, where it has an office
at 1350 Avenue of the Americas, near the Museum of  Modern Art .
Computer technology and media companies have been expanding in
Manhattan, preferring the older buildings south of Midtown over
the glass and steel towers favored by the financial industry.  Amazon has sent requests for proposals to landlords
throughout  Manhattan , as well as parts of Brooklyn that are
close to the East River, such as downtown, Dumbo and
Williamsburg, one of the people said. One World Trade Center, to
be North America’s tallest building when completed in 2014, is
among the properties under consideration, the person said.  Ty Rogers, an Amazon spokesman, declined to comment. The
company is working with  Cresa New York , a brokerage that
specializes in representing tenants, the two people said. Robert
Stella, a senior vice president at Cresa, declined to comment.  Steve Vitoff, a spokesman for the Durst Organization, which
is co-developing  1 World Trade Center  with the  Port Authority  of
New York and New Jersey and is overseeing its leasing, declined
to comment. As of last month, the 3 million-square-foot
skyscraper had 1.3 million square feet unleased.  Manhattan Leasing  Amazon last year expanded its space at  1350 Avenue of the
Americas  to 92,500 square feet, according to a statement from  SL
Green Realty Corp. (SLG) , which owns the building.  Rick Matthews , an
SL Green spokesman, didn’t immediately return a telephone
message.  New Manhattan office leasing declined 20 percent last year
to 22.3 million square feet, according to a January report by
CBRE Group Inc., the world’s biggest commercial real estate
services firm. Availability rose to 11.9 percent from 10.7
percent.  Amazon’s interest in expanding in New York was reported
last night on the website of the Wall Street Journal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  