-- American Capital Raises $1.6 Billion as Fed Watches REITs Growth
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-02-28T18:16:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/american-capital-raises-1-6-billion-as-fed-watches-reits-growth.html
American Capital Agency Corp. (AGNC) , the
 second-largest  real estate investment trust that buys mortgage
debt, raised $1.58 billion in a stock sale, as wider relative
yields on government-backed bonds revive growth in an industry
whose expansion has drawn Federal Reserve officials’  attention .  The company, which  sold  50 million shares today, has also
granted underwriters the option to purchase an additional 7.5
million for 30 days, the Bethesda, Maryland-based firm said
today in a statement distributed by PR Newswire.  REITs’ holdings of agency home-loan securities rose to
about $350 billion last year, from about $90 billion in 2008,
Nomura Securities International estimated last month. After the
growth ground to a halt last quarter following a slump in
mortgage-bond spreads created by the start of the Fed’s monthly
purchases of $40 billion,  mortgage REIT  stock sales are
accelerating amid a rise this year in the relative yields fueled
by doubts about the length of the central bank’s  program .  American Capital Agency’s offering, which will give it an
additional $12 billion to $15 billion of “purchasing power”
based on its recent use of borrowed money, “should be a
positive” for the market, Credit Suisse Group AG analysts led
by Mahesh Swaminathanwrote today in a report.  The company began this year with $100.5 billion of assets,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. When including $13
billion of mortgage-bond bets not displayed on its balance
sheet, its “true effective leverage was 8.2 times,” President
Gary Kain said on a Feb. 8 earnings call.  ‘Maturity Transformation’  Fed Governor Jeremy Stein mentioned the growth of  mortgage
REITs (BBREMTG)  in a Feb. 7 speech on some credit markets showing signs of
potentially excessive risk-taking. The Fed’s efforts to hold
short-term interest rates near zero since 2008 have made it
cheaper for the firms to borrow money and engage in what Stein
called “maturity transformation.”  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke minimized concerns that the
central bank’s easy monetary policy has spawned economically-
risky asset bubbles in comments at a meeting with dealers and
investors this month at which mortgage REITs were mentioned,
three people with knowledge of the discussions said.  Mortgage REITs, including ones that invest mainly in
commercial-mortgage debt or products such as mortgage servicing
rights, have sold $3.5 billion of shares this year through
yesterday, up from $1.7 billion last quarter, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Such firms sold $16.3 billion of stock in
2012, down from a record $16.9 billion in 2011.  Relative Yields  Mortgage REITs that raised capital this quarter include
 Invesco Mortgage Capital Inc. (IVR) ,  Armour Residential REIT Inc. (ARR)  and
 American Capital Mortgage Investment Corp. (MTGE) , which is overseen by
the same manager as American Capital Agency.  Annaly Capital
Management Inc. (NLY)  is the biggest, with $133.5 billion of assets on
Dec. 31, Bloomberg data show.  A Bloomberg index of yields on Fannie Mae-guaranteed
mortgage bonds trading closest to face value rose to 1.23
percentage point higher than an average of five- and 10-year
Treasury rates on Feb. 26, the widest spread since August. The
gap, which reached a record low 0.55 percentage point in
September, narrowed about 0.01 percentage point today to 1.21
percentage point as of 12:05 p.m. in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  