-- Man Group Assets Fall, Adding to Pressure on New Chief Roman
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-02-28T17:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/man-group-assets-fall-adding-to-pressure-on-new-chief-roman-1-.html
Man Group Plc (EMG) , the world’s biggest
publicly traded hedge-fund manager, reported $2.7 billion in
fourth-quarter client outflows, adding pressure on new Chief
Executive Officer Emmanuel Roman to improve performance.  The withdrawals from Man Group’s hedge funds and other
investment funds offset sales of $2.6 billion in the period, the
company said in a statement today. Assets under management fell
to $57 billion at the end of 2012 from $58.4 billion a year
earlier, in line with the $57.2 billion estimate of RBC Capital
Markets analyst Peter Lenardos.  Man Group has now had six consecutive quarters of outflows.
Roman, a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. executive who joined
Man Group as part of its 2010 purchase of hedge-fund manager GLG
Partners Inc., took the reins from Peter Clarke today after the
stock lost two-thirds of its value over the past two years.
Investors questioned Clarke’s ability to turn the company around
after cost cuts and new hires failed to reverse losses at Man
Group’s biggest hedge fund, the $14.4 billion AHL Diversified.  Investor sentiment improved during the first two months of
2013, Roman said in the statement. Still, “given the lead time
required by institutional investors to invest, gross sales are
likely to remain muted in the first half and we are yet to see a
slowdown in the rates of redemptions,” he said.  Man Group also posted a full-year pretax loss of $745
million after taking an additional $746 million impairment on
its purchase of GLG.  Shares Fall  The shares  declined 2.7 pence, or 2.6 percent, to 100.3
pence in London trading, valuing the company at 1.8 billion
pounds ($2.8 billion).  The amount of money managed by Man Group fell last year
even though the company added $8.2 billion of assets by
acquiring FRM Holdings Ltd., a fund-of-funds firm that charges
fees for picking hedge-investments for clients.  Since the end of 2012, funds under management have shrunk
further to $55 billion as of Feb. 25, Man Group said, amid more
outflows and negative foreign-exchange moves.  “We had hoped for some growth,” Philip Middleton, a
London-based analyst at Bank of America Corp., wrote in a
report. “It is likely to depress revenue estimates.”  GLG Writedown  Man Group wrote down GLG’s value on its books because the
outlook for the unit’s asset growth worsened due to the
“ongoing challenging market environment.” Man Group paid $1.6
billion for GLG, which managed $15.2 billion of hedge-fund
investments at the end of last year.  The shares  have rebounded 30 percent since the company
announced Dec. 10 that Roman, 49, would replace Clarke, spurring
speculation that the new CEO will unveil new products, speed
cost cuts or even try to sell the company.  Among the investors increasing their stake are  New York- 
based  BlackRock Inc., (BLK)  which boosted its stake in Man Group to
more than 5 percent as of Feb. 25, according to a regulatory
filing. The world’s largest asset manager had reduced its Man
Group holdings last year.  RBC’s Lenardos said investors are too optimistic about what
can be changed by Roman, who has already had a hand in setting
strategy as Man Group’s chief operating officer since 2010.  “With expectations high for further cost cuts, strategic
change and a takeover offer, we believe that the share price
increase is overdone and is based upon hope rather than
reality,” Lenardos, who has a sector perform rating on Man
Group, wrote in a February 19 research note.  AHL Performance  Man Group has made further changes since announcing Roman’s
ascension. Luke Ellis, who ran the fund-of-funds unit that
invested in outside  hedge funds , has been promoted to president
and Sandy Rattray took over for Tim Wong as CEO of the AHL unit.
Man Group also increased the membership of its executive
committee and said its meetings would be held more frequently.
The changes were announced in internal memos over the past few
weeks, according to Man Group spokesman David Waller.  AHL, which relies on computer algorithms to spot profitable
trades in markets ranging from currencies to oil, fell 2.1
percent in 2012 after declining 5.5 percent in 2011, data
compiled by Bloomberg shows. So-called trend-following hedge
funds were hurt over the past two years as markets swung with
investors’ optimism or pessimism about the European sovereign-
debt crisis.  GLG Arrest  AHL has gained 2.2 percent this year through Feb. 25,
boosted by trends such as the slide of the Japanese yen and the
British pound against other currencies. Hedge funds tied to the
trading system are now 13 percent on average below their high-
water mark, the level at which Man Group can charge performance
fees for positive  investment performance .  Since 2011, Man Group has announced plans to cut $195
million of costs. While the company will “continue to run the
business in a disciplined fashion,” it feels no pressure to
announce further expense reductions, Finance Director Jonathan Sorrell said on a call with reporters today.  Roman, on the same call, declined to comment on Carl Esprey, a portfolio manager at GLG. Esprey was one of three men
arrested yesterday by the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority
for suspicion of  insider trading , according to a person familiar
with knowledge of the matter. Man Group confirmed yesterday that
a GLG employee it didn’t identify had been suspended following
his arrest by regulators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  