-- Apple Supplier Corning Sees 3-Year Wait on Flexible Glass
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-01T01:22:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/apple-supplier-corning-sees-three-year-wait-for-flexible-display.html
Corning Inc. (GLW) , the maker of glass for
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPhones, said it will probably take at least three
years before companies start making flexible displays using its
new Willow material.  Companies have yet to come up with products that can take
full advantage of Willow glass, which can be made in a roll
similar to newsprint,  James Clappin , president of Corning Glass
Technologies, said in an interview in Beijing yesterday. The
product will let companies make curved or flexible displays.  “People are not accustomed to glass you roll up,” Clappin
said after an event marking the opening an $800 million factory
for liquid-crystal-display glass. “The ability of people to
take it and use it to make a product is limited.”  The Corning, New York-based  company  is producing the glass
and making “a lot of effort” to teach “very big name”
customers how to handle the spools, Clappin said, declining to
elaborate. The introduction of the glass comes as companies
including  Google Inc. (GOOG)  consider wearable computing devices.  The Willow glass should be used in some simple products
this year, Clappin said. Examples may include a flexible barrier
for solar panels or as a thin film behind some touch panels, he
said.  Corning sent out samples of the flexible glass to makers of
phones, tablets and TVs in June. Chief Financial Officer James Flaws said at the time the company hoped it would be available
in consumer products this year.  Computer Eyeglasses  Corning climbed as much as 1.3 percent to $12.75 before
closing at $12.61 in  New York  trading yesterday. The  shares  are
little changed this year,  compared  with a 6.2 percent advance
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Google has been working on eyeglass-embedded computers and
plans to introduce them in 2014. Apple has a team of about 100
product designers working on a wristwatch-like device that may
perform some of the tasks now handled by the iPhone and iPad,
two people familiar with the company’s plans said last month.
Clappin declined to comment when asked whether Corning had any
contact with Apple on this project.  Surging global sales of smartphones have helped boost
earnings for 161-year-old Corning, which made the glass for
Thomas Edison’s light bulb, according to its  website . Gorilla
Glass, which was introduced in 2007, is used in more than 1
billion devices worldwide, according to the company. Corning has
sold the glass to 33 electronics makers, including  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  and  Sony Corp. (6758) , for use in more than 900 models.  Sales of Gorilla Glass surged 44 percent to $1 billion last
year. The product is the second-most profitable and the fastest
growing in Corning’s history, Chief Executive Officer Wendell Weeks said last month.  Gorilla Glass sales may also grow “dramatically”
alongside a projected increase in demand for new touchscreen
notebooks, Clappin said.  “We sell a lot of Gorilla Glass in cell phones, but a
notebook is 10 times the size, 10 times the area,” he said.
“Glassmakers sell in square feet. We like area -- the bigger
the area, the better.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  