-- Arabtec Falls Most in Year on Dilution Concern: Dubai Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-02-28T12:03:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/arabtec-falls-most-in-year-on-dilution-concern-dubai-mover.html
Arabtec Holding Co. (ARTC)  slumped the most
in nearly a year on investor concern the Dubai builder’s capital
increase plans may dilute the shares given the conversion price
and as full-year profit missed estimates.  Shares of the United Arab Emirates’ biggest construction
company by market value dropped 9.8 percent, the most since
March 7, to 2.67 dirhams at the close in Dubai. The stock was
the biggest decliner on Dubai’s benchmark  DFM General Index (DFMGI) ,
which slipped 0.6 percent. About 3.2 million shares of Arabtec
were traded, less than a third of the three-month daily average.  The builder said yesterday it plans to raise $1.74 billion
through a rights issue and convertible bonds to fund internal
growth, acquisitions and joint ventures. Arabtec, which said it
won’t pay a dividend for 2012 to “preserve the net cash
position,” plans to issue 3.18 billion shares at 1.5 dirhams
each and will sell $450 million in convertible bonds. Full-year
 net income  decreased 37 percent, missing estimates.  “The convertible bond may have a dilutive effect,”
according to Yazan Abdeen, who helps oversee about $300 million
as ING Investment Management’s  Middle East  and North Africa fund
manager in Dubai. “There is a lot of uncertainty about the
conversion price and the future backlog of the company, which
can surprise on the upside or the downside.”  Arabtec’s fundraising comes as Abu Dhabi-based Aabar
Investments plays a bigger role in the company after last year
 raising its stake  to 21.6 percent. Arabtec has won large
projects in Abu Dhabi in the past year, including construction
of a branch of the Louvre museum and the midfield terminal at
 Abu Dhabi  airport.  The company, which mainly builds homes and offices, plans
to expand to oil, gas and power infrastructure. Hasan Ismaik was
appointed chief executive officer, replacing Riad Kamal, the
company said yesterday.  Four analysts have a hold rating on Arabtec shares, while
nine  say sell,  according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Arabtec’s profit may  more than double  this year to 286 million
dirhams ($77.9 million), according to the mean estimate of 11
analysts on Bloomberg. The company’s shares have dropped 9.8
percent this month after rallying 32 percent in January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  