-- Fiat CEO Says Chrysler Ownership Clarity in Third Quarter
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-02-28T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/marchionne-sees-clarity-on-chrysler-ownership-in-third-quarter.html
Sergio Marchionne , the chief
executive officer seeking to combine Chrysler Group LLC with
 Fiat SpA (F) , predicted that the U.S. automaker’s future ownership
structure won’t be clear until the third quarter.  Fiat is discussing financing options with banks in
preparation to buy the 41.5 percent of Chrysler it doesn’t own,
people familiar with the matter said last month. Marchionne, 60,
said yesterday that his preference has been for Chrysler to
avoid an initial public offering.  “I don’t see any clarity on this until the third quarter
of this year,” Marchionne told reporters yesterday after
disclosing $374 million of investments in Chrysler transmission
plants in central  Indiana . The executive said his “best
estimate” is that Fiat has a 50-50 chance of avoiding a
Chrysler IPO and creating “one organization.”  Marchionne is relying on  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based
Chrysler to sustain earnings as he works to end losses at Fiat’s
mass-market brands in  Europe  by as soon as 2015. The Italian
carmaker would have posted a 1.04 billion-euro ($1.36 billion)
loss in 2012 without Chrysler. Fiat also is confronting
political instability in its home country that could raise
borrowing costs, Marchionne said yesterday.  The United Auto Workers union’s voluntary employees
beneficiary association, a medical benefits trust for Chrysler
retirees, owns the remaining Chrysler stake not held by Turin,
Italy-based Fiat.  Bank Talks  Fiat, Chrysler and the trust, known as VEBA, are entering a
“multi-month undertaking” involving talks with banks about the
best option for the interested parties, Marchionne said.
Chrysler also would need to go through the process of changing
to a corporation from a limited liability company if the VEBA
elects to proceed with an IPO, he said.  Fiat is  Italy ’s largest manufacturer and may be among the
companies hardest hit by the political turmoil in the country
after a general election resulted in a hung parliament. Fiat’s
sales in Italy accounted for more than half of the company’s
European deliveries in January.  The  carmaker  may pay higher  interest rates  because
instability has raised Italy’s borrowing costs, Marchionne said.  The borrowing costs of most Italian companies “effectively
follow the same yield curve that the  government bonds  follow,”
he said. “To the extent that there’s a spike in national
borrowing costs, it will negatively impact on Fiat. That’s
something that we obviously find incredibly unpleasant.”  Fiat has enough cash resources, so Italy’s issues are “not
an immediate problem,” Marchionne said.  Resolution ‘Crucial’  “A relatively short-order resolution of the Italian
political leadership issue is crucial,” he said. “Over the
medium term, if it continued, it would have a negative impact on
Fiat, but not in the next 12 months.”  Fiat’s plans to boost production in Italy for export to
global markets “remain unchanged,” Marchionne said yesterday.
The carmaker had been working with defeated Prime Minister  Mario Monti  on tax breaks and other changes to make it more attractive
for Fiat to export from the country.  “The work started, and then the government changed,”
Marchionne said. “We have to wait until the new government gets
installed to resume the discussions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Kokomo, Indiana, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  