-- Argentine Default Threat Spurs Bond Selloff: Buenos Aires Mover
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2013-02-28T20:49:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/argentine-default-threat-spurs-bond-selloff-buenos-aires-mover.html
Argentina ’s credit-default swaps
surged and bonds fell the most in  emerging markets  after the
country said it would halt payments on its restructured bonds if
a U.S. court ordered it to pay defaulted debt holders.  Yields on the government’s benchmark bonds due 2017 surged
396 basis points, or 3.96 percentage points, to 19.67 percent at
3:48 p.m. in  New York , the biggest jump on record. The yield is
about four times the average borrowing costs in emerging
markets. Argentina’s one-year credit-default swaps climbed 1,329
basis points to 6,510 basis points, the biggest jump in the
world, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Speculation is soaring that the South American country will
default for the second time since 2001 after Jonathan Blackman,
Argentina’s attorney, said the nation would halt payments on its
restructured debt before giving into holdouts who refused to
accept prior renegotiations. Billionaire hedge fund manager  Paul Singer ’s NML Capital Ltd., a unit of Elliott Management Corp.,
is leading the group of investors pressing Argentina to pay them
$1.33 billion for their defaulted bonds.  “If you could sell at current prices, I would sell,” Joe Kogan, the head of emerging-market debt strategy at Scotia
 Capital Markets  who attended the hearing, said in a phone
interview from New York. “I got the sense that the judges would
really love to rule against Argentina. They just want to make
sure they’ve covered all the arguments.”  ‘Technical Default’  Argentina says a ruling in the creditors’ favor would open
it up to more than $43 billion in additional claims it can’t
pay. The central bank had $41.7 billion of  reserves  yesterday.  “Argentina won’t violate its own law on debt payments,”
Argentina’s Vice President  Amado Boudou  said yesterday in an
interview on television channel C5N after the hearing.  The country said they would offer holdouts the same terms
it offered creditors in its 2010 debt swap instead of the full
amount they claim.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. reiterated its underweight
recommendation on Argentine  government bonds  today because
“technical  default risk  is likely to escalate once again,”
according to an e-mailed report.  Argentina’s claim faced skepticism from the three-judge
panel yesterday during the appeals court hearing in New York as
U.S. Circuit Judge Reena Raggi questioned Blackman and other
parties during more than two hours of arguments.  “So the answer is you will not obey any order but the one
you propose?” Raggi said.  Won’t Obey  “We would not voluntarily obey such an order,” Blackman
said. Hernan Lorenzino, Argentina’s minister of economy, and
Boudou sat at the counsel table as the lawyer addressed the
panel.  The extra yield investors demand to buy the government’s
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries soared 143 basis points to
1,257 basis points, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global index.
Argentina’s benchmark equities index, the  Merval (MERVAL) , dropped 3.5
percent and the peso in the parallel market weakened 3.2 percent
to a record 8 per dollar.  Still,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  said it’s worth holding on to the
performing bonds as the final ruling will take time while
Bulltick Capital Markets said the ruling may be
“unenforceable.”  “Yesterday after the court case you saw some pressure in
the market place. We think bonds have traded down at such severe
levels we think it’s worth holding on, this is going to play out
over a long period of time,” Rick Rieder, chief investment
officer for fundamental fixed income portfolios at BlackRock
said on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers” with  Stephanie
Ruhle  and  Matt Miller . “We’re hoping if we get more pressure
like it we would add to the position.”  Debt Swap  The country defaulted on a record $95 billion in debt in
2001. Holders of about 91 percent of the bonds agreed to take
new exchange bonds in 2005 and 2010, at a discount of about 70
percent.  On Oct. 26 the U.S. appeals court upheld District Court
Judge Thomas Griesa’s ruling that Argentina must treat
bondholders equally and pay defaulted debt when servicing
restructured bonds. Griesa’s Nov. 21 decision that the full
payment had to be made by the country’s next payment of
performing bonds in December was delayed until a hearing of the
parties’ arguments yesterday. The court may take weeks or months
to make a decision.  “Our overall impression was that the outlook for a
resolution of the litigation by holdouts is negative for
Argentina,” Credit Suisse Group AG analysts Casey Reckman and
Daniel Chodos wrote today in a note. “We expect markets to
retain a bearish tone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Camila Russo in  Buenos Aires  at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  