-- Argentina Approves Joint Probe With Iran Into Jewish Center Bomb
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2013-02-28T12:02:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/argentina-approves-joint-probe-with-iran-into-jewish-center-bomb.html
Argentina ’s lower house approved an
agreement with  Iran  to set up a commission to investigate the
1994 bombing of a Jewish center in Buenos Aires.  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  sent the accord to
Congress for approval, saying that it will allow the country to
question Iranians suspected of being involved in the
organization of the terrorist attack. The Jewish community and
opposition lawmakers rejected the agreement saying that it won’t
help the investigation. The bill, passed by 131 votes to 113
early today, was approved by the Senate earlier this month.  “We need to make this step to move ahead to a trial,”
Foreign Minister Hector Timerman said at a Feb. 26 hearing with
lawmakers.  Since 2003, Fernandez and her predecessor and late husband
 Nestor Kirchner  have made calls at meetings of the  United
Nations  for Iran to send suspects for trial in Argentina.
Fernandez also offered to hold a trial in a third country.  The agreement signed on Jan. 27, envisages the creation of
a five-member commission, two of them designated by each
country, while the president will be agreed upon jointly.  The July 1994 blast, which killed 85 people, followed the
1992 bombing of the Israeli embassy in Buenos Aires. Argentina
has accused current and former Iranian officials, including
Defense Minister Ahmad Vahidi, of involvement. Iran has rejected
the accusations.  “The accord is ambiguous, incomplete, and confusing,”
Guillermo Borger, president of the Argentine Jewish Mutual, told
lawmakers on Feb. 26. “Approving this accord means becoming a
partner of Iran and forgetting our 85 deaths.”  The commission will review documents supplied by both
countries and be able to interrogate suspects in Iran, according
to the agreement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  