-- Armstrong’s Former Charity Says It Will Survive Without Him
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-02-28T19:30:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/armstrong-s-former-charity-says-it-will-survive-without-him.html
Lance Armstrong’s acknowledgment
that he cheated with drugs during his cycling career won’t stop
the mission of the cancer charity he founded, Livestrong
Foundation Executive Vice President Andy Miller said today.  Miller said Livestrong, the largest athlete-founded charity
in the U.S. with more than $500 million raised since 1997, will
survive and that the organization’s success was never based on
one person.  “Is the Livestrong Foundation bigger than its founder?
Will we survive?” Miller asked at a state-of-the-foundation
address today in  Chicago . “The answer is a resounding yes.”  Livestrong, whose yellow plastic donation bracelets were
once ubiquitous, has faced questions about whether it can retain
support since Armstrong confessed in January that he cheated
with performance-enhancing drugs and banned transfusions, ending
13 years of denials and calling his record-setting career “one
big lie.”  “Our success has never been based on one person,” Miller
said. “It’s based on the patients and survivors we serve every
day who approach a cancer diagnosis with hope, courage and
perseverance.”  A cancer survivor, Armstrong stepped down as chairman of
the charity in October 2012 and resigned from its board in
November. That month, the charity officially changed its name to
the Livestrong Foundation from the  Lance Armstrong  Foundation.  “It’s been a difficult year, but through all the noise and
distraction, some important issues were finally settled,”
Miller said. “We set about charting an independent course
forward. Still, we found ourselves caught in the crossfire of a
media frenzy.”  Tour Titles  Armstrong, 41, was diagnosed in 1996 with testicular cancer
that spread to his lungs and brain. He created the foundation
the following year and in 1999 won the first of a record seven
straight  Tour de France  titles. Armstrong was stripped of those
titles and banned for life from Olympic sports by the U.S. Anti-
Doping Agency in August.  Armstrong apologized to Livestrong staff members at the
organization’s Austin, Texas, office prior to his admission in a
televised interview with  Oprah Winfrey  that he’d used drugs. He
later said that losing the foundation he started was the “most
humbling moment” of his downfall.  Armstrong made at least $218 million during his career,
according to a compilation of his earnings by  Bloomberg News . He
has lost his commercial sponsors, and the U.S. Justice
Department said last week that it was joining a lawsuit by ex-
teammate  Floyd Landis  that accuses the former champion of
defrauding the government by using banned drugs while riding for
the U.S. Postal Service.  Miller said that while some organizations might decide to
“hunker down” and “wait until the storm passes,” Livestrong
sees this time as an opportunity to advance understanding of how
it helps fight cancer with programs that offer support, care and
treatment.  “We certainly have people’s attention,” Miller said. “If
we stay quiet, we put our mission at risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  