-- Army Signals Victory in Fight to Keep Mississippi Open to Barges
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-02-28T18:26:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/army-signals-victory-in-fight-to-keep-mississippi-open-to-barges.html
The U.S.  Army Corps of Engineers  has
declared victory, for now, in its battle to keep the drought-
depleted Mississippi River open for barges moving commodities
such as coal, grain and crude oil.  Contractors today completed emergency work that included
excavating and blasting rock from the riverbed near the towns of
Thebes and Grand Tower in southern  Illinois , the Army and the
U.S. Coast Guard said in a joint statement.  “A tremendous amount of effort now and in the years
leading up to this drought has gone into keeping the river
open,” Colonel Chris Hall, the commander of the Army Corps’ St.
Louis district, said in the statement. “The end results have
been permanent improvements to the navigation channel.”  Contractors have been working since December to deepen the
river channel while the worst U.S. drought since the 1930s
forced barge delays, and companies including AEP River
Operations LLC idled boats on the nation’s busiest waterway. The
statement by the federal agencies effectively declares the
crisis over.  The Corps is authorized to maintain a navigable channel at
least 9 feet (2.7 meters) deep in the river, and the National
Weather Service yesterday forecast that the depth near St. Louis
will be at least 16.5 feet through March 27. The river near
Thebes, which was the most treacherous point for barge traffic,
is now more than 20 feet deep.  ‘Welcome News’  The improvement in navigation is “welcome news to shippers
and operators,” Debra Colbert, senior vice president of the
Waterways Council Inc., an Arlington, Virginia-based public
policy group that includes shippers and ports, said today in an
e-mail. “Let’s hope this positive trend continues.”  Billions of dollars worth of cargo travel along the river
during a typical month. High water facilitates the traffic and
benefits shippers and carriers including  Archer-Daniels-Midland
Co. (ADM)  of Decatur, Illinois, and Cargill Inc. of  Minneapolis .  Recent rain and snow in the nation’s midsection have also
helped improve navigation, the U.S. Department of Agriculture
said today in its weekly  Grain Transportation Report .  Carriers report loading barges to draft levels of at least
9 feet in most locations, eliminating the need for vessels to
lighten loads, the USDA said. The number of grain barges
unloaded in New Orleans increased 18 percent for the week ending
Feb. 23 from the previous week, it said.  The upper Mississippi River and a tributary, the Missouri
River, may still return to drought-depleted levels because of
dry soil and low reservoirs, according to forecasters. The
rivers will need more rain than normal in the coming months to
avoid repeating near-record low levels this year, Steve Buan, a
hydrologist at the National Weather Service, said Feb. 21 during
a congressional staff briefing in  Washington .  The Coast Guard and the Army Corps said they were
continuing their coordination with the shipping industry on how
to respond if more emergency work is needed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  