-- Harris Teeter Seen Worthy of Best Price Tag: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2013-02-28T23:08:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/harris-teeter-seen-worthy-of-best-price-tag-real-m-a.html
Harris Teeter Supermarkets Inc. (HTSI) , the
U.S. grocery-store chain that’s boosted sales every year for a
decade, is poised to secure the industry’s highest takeover
valuation since 2007.  The $2.1 billion company said this month it hired JPMorgan
Chase & Co. to advise on talks with suitors after two private-
equity firms expressed interest in acquiring the Matthews, North
Carolina-based chain.  Royal Ahold NV (AH) , the Dutch owner of Stop &
Shop and Peapod in the U.S. Northeast, also is interested,
people with knowledge of the matter said last week.  Harris Teeter should fetch more than recent supermarket
deals because it’s well-run, with a growing store base and
higher margins than rivals, according to Diamond Hill Capital
Management Inc. Northcoast Research Holdings LLC and Bank of
Montreal both estimate bids could come in at about $55 a share,
29 percent more than yesterday’s  stock  close. A takeover for
that price would value Harris Teeter at 9.3 times earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, the
steepest multiple among U.S. food retailer deals since Pathmark
Stores Inc. was acquired in 2007, the data show.  “It is expensive relative to your regular supermarkets,
but this isn’t your regular supermarket,”  Louis Meyer , a
special situations analyst at Oscar Gruss & Son Inc. in New
York, said in a telephone interview. “It’s a pretty good
business and a good brand name. It’s not a situation where,
absent a deal, everything falls apart.”  Attracting Suitors  Catherine Becker, a spokeswoman for Harris Teeter, declined
to comment beyond the grocery chain’s Feb. 13 statement, when it
said it hired JPMorgan to assist in holding talks with suitors
after being approached by two buyout firms. The company didn’t
mention possible bid prices or provide further information.  An offer of $55 a share would imply a deal value of $2.8
billion, including Harris Teeter’s  net debt . At 9.3 times its
trailing 12-month Ebitda, the price tag would represent the
highest multiple for a U.S. food retailer deal larger than $100
million since December 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That’s when Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co. paid 9.9 times
Ebitda for Pathmark. Earlier that same year, Whole Foods Market
Inc. bought Wild Oats Markets Inc. for the industry’s steepest
valuation at 15 times Ebitda, the data show.  “We haven’t seen those kinds of valuations in a while,”
Chuck Cerankosky, a Cleveland, Ohio-based analyst for Northcoast
Research, said in a phone interview. “With Harris Teeter, you
have a very strong regional chain with an exceptional management
team, a growing store base and a differentiated format. That
immediately puts discussions back into the historic Ebitda
levels.”  Financial Strength  The industry’s only two post-recession deals involving
public companies were Supervalu Inc.’s sale of five chains to a
Cerberus Capital Management LP-led investor group announced last
month and Bi-Lo LLC’s takeover of Winn-Dixie Stores Inc. about a
year ago. Those transactions were struck at an average of 2.2
times Ebitda, the data show.  A sale of Harris Teeter wouldn’t come from a position of
weakness, Oscar Gruss’s Meyer said. Harris Teeter’s annual
revenue has risen in 24 of the last 25 years, the data show.
While profit slid in the last two years, analysts project the
chain  will report  a record $119 million of net income for fiscal
2013, which ends in September, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Lagging Shares  Harris Teeter earned 3.6 cents in operating profit on each
dollar of sales in the last 12 months, exceeding rivals Safeway
Inc., Supervalu and  Kroger Co. (KR) , the data show. Still, Harris
Teeter climbed just 2 percent in the past year,  trailing  the 13
percent gain that consumer staples stocks in the Standard &
Poor’s MidCap 400 Index had over that span.  The shares, which ended yesterday at $42.76, were valued at
19 times this year’s estimated earnings, the same as the average
ratio for U.S. food retailers larger than $500 million,
according to the data.  “The stock is kind of trading in line with conventional
supermarkets, and arguably it shouldn’t because it is a very
well-run company,” Karen Short, a New York-based analyst at
BMO, said in a phone interview. “The two private-equity firms
seem to believe Harris Teeter’s undervalued, otherwise it
wouldn’t have been approached.”  Today, the shares climbed 0.6 percent to $43.  Because Harris Teeter is already well-managed and buyout
firms tend to prefer weaker targets that have room for
improvement, the company may be better suited for a buyer in the
supermarket industry, Short said.  Recession Recovery  “It’s been a challenging economy for food retailers,”
Northcoast Research’s Cerankosky said. “Not all of them have
come out of the recession in great shape, and Harris Teeter is
one of those that has been able to do it. A strategic buyer
would benefit a great deal from Harris Teeter.”  Amsterdam-based Ahold has contacted JPMorgan and is seeking
more information on the sale process, a person with knowledge of
the matter, who asked not to be identified because the
negotiations are private, told  Bloomberg News  last week.  Harris Teeter’s 211 stores, predominantly in  North
Carolina ,  Virginia  and  South Carolina , would help Ahold expand
in mid-Atlantic and Southeast states where population growth
trends are more favorable than in the Northeast, BMO’s Short
said. Ahold owns the Stop & Shop and Giant chains, with stores
stretching from  New Hampshire  to Virginia, and already generates
 more than half  of its revenue and operating profit in the U.S.  “Ahold is my conclusion on the most likely buyer,” Short
said. “In general, they’ve had an acquisitive history.”  Big Buyer  Ahold has made at least 66 purchases in the last 20 years,
including its $2.9 billion takeover of Stop & Shop Cos. in 1996
and $2.8 billion acquisition of Giant Food Inc. two years later,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Ahold Chief Executive Officer  Dick Boer  said in an
interview today that the company would consider acquisitions as
a way to fuel growth as it weighs how to utilize cash raised
from its $3.1 billion disposal of a stake in Swedish retailer
ICA. When asked about Ahold’s interest in Harris Teeter, Tracy
Pawelski, a spokeswoman, said the company doesn’t comment on
speculation.  Publix, Kroger  Publix Super Markets Inc. (PUSH)  and Kroger, the largest U.S.
grocery-store chain, also are possible suitors for Harris
Teeter, though less likely to pull the trigger, according to
Short and Oscar Gruss’s Meyer. Publix hasn’t been an active
acquirer and Kroger might not want to add to its already long
list of store banners, Meyer said. According to Kroger’s
 website , it operates almost two dozen grocery-store chains, six
convenience-store banners and a handful of jewelry-store names.  Maria Brous, a spokeswoman for Lakeland, Florida-based
Publix, and Keith Dailey, a spokesman for Cincinnati-based
Kroger, said the companies don’t comment on speculation.  There’s no guarantee that any discussions will result in a
transaction, especially if the parties can’t agree on a price.
Should a private-equity buyer make an offer that’s conditional
on financing, that may make it difficult to close the deal,
Northcoast Research’s Cerankosky said.  Still, Kapish Bhutani, a Columbus, Ohio-based analyst for
Diamond Hill Capital, said he’s confident Harris Teeter will do
right by its shareholders and that the company demonstrated that
by entertaining the private-equity firms’ interest. Diamond Hill
Capital oversees $10 billion, including Harris Teeter  shares .  “This is a pretty solid business,” Bhutani said. “The
stock is undervalued even without the possibility of a takeover,
so with that possibility it becomes even more interesting. We
think they will make a good decision.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  