-- Arsenal to Break Wage Ceiling to Attract Talent: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-02-28T06:37:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/arsenal-to-break-wage-ceiling-to-attract-talent-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable Internet links.  Wage Structure  Arsenal is ready to relax the club’s wage structure to help
attract the top talent that manager  Arsene Wenger  wants to boost
his squad, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Theo Walcott and Lukas Podolski are the Gunners’ highest
paid players on just under 100,000 pounds ($151,630) a week and
there is a willingness to break through that barrier for the
right player, the Telegraph said. Fiorentina striker Stevan
Jovetic and Borussia Dortmund playmaker Mario Gotze are among
Wenger’s targets, the newspaper added.  Salary Stretch  Arsenal is prepared to stretch to as much as 150,000 pounds
a week for the right player and club executives want to help
facilitate the outlay by offloading unwanted squad members, the
 Daily Mail reported .  The Gunners will save 7.5 million pounds a year on wages
when Andrey Arshavin and Sebastien Squillaci’s contracts expire
at the end of this season, the Mail said. A further 24 million
pounds a year could be saved if they shift Bacary Sagna,  Nicklas Bendtner ,  Andre Santos ,  Johan Djourou , Ju-Young Park,  Marouane
Chamakh , Emmanuel Frimpong and Denilson, the Mail added.  Keeping Kaboul  Tottenham Hotspur rejected a bid from Russian club Anzhi
Makhachkala to take defender Younes Kaboul on loan until the end
of the season, the  Guardian reported .  Spurs manager Andre Villas-Boas is said to have personally
indicated his desire to keep Kaboul, who is likely to be offered
new terms to extend his contract beyond 2014, the newspaper
added.  Lukaku Loan  West Bromwich Albion manager Steve Clarke wants to keep
Chelsea striker Romelu Lukaku, who’s scored 12 Premier League
goals so far in his loan spell with the Baggies, for another
season, the  Daily Mirror reported .  “If Chelsea want to leave him out for another season
somewhere, I think we would have a strong chance of getting him
back here,” the Sun cited Clarke as saying. “It’s a package
that’s been good for all three parties.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  