-- Asia Stocks Poised for Biggest Advance Since September
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-02-28T11:11:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/asian-stock-head-for-fourth-monthly-advance-on-economy.html
Asian  stocks  rose, with the regional
benchmark index heading for its biggest jump in more than five
months, after U.S. economic data bolstered confidence in the
global recovery and as Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
nominated a new central bank governor.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 capped its longest monthly winning
streak since 2006 amid speculation Abe’s nominee, Asian
Development Bank President  Haruhiko Kuroda , will push for more
monetary stimulus. In Sydney,  James Hardie Industries SE (JHX) , a
building-materials supplier that gets 67 percent of sales from
the U.S., gained 3.2 percent. New World Development Co., a Hong
Kong builder controlled by billionaire  Cheng Yu-tung , rose 3.8
percent after posting earnings that beat estimates.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 1.5 percent to 135.17
as of 8 p.m. in Tokyo, poised for the biggest increase since
Sept. 14. More than six stocks rose for each that fell on the
measure, which is also up 1.5 percent in February.  “U.S. housing is pretty good, which is providing a huge
catalyst to consumers in terms of the wealth effect,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1 billion at Pengana Capital Ltd.
in Melbourne. “The buy-on-dips strategy is pretty much in play.
We’re definitely pricing in a lot more good news in equities.”  The Asia-Pacific gauge capped a  fourth month  of advance,
the longest win streak since September 2009, amid signs the U.S.
and Chinese economies are improving and on bets Abe will step up
efforts to stimulate Japan’s economy.  Industrial Production  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average advanced 2.7 percent,
extending its advance for a seventh month, the longest such
streak since January 2006. A report showed the nation’s
 industrial production  rose for a second month in January and as
Abe nominated Kuroda for  Bank of Japan (8301)  governor.  South Korea’s Kospi Index increased 1.1 percent even as
data showed the country’s factory output unexpectedly dropped
last month.  Australia’s ASX 200 Index gained 1.3 percent, while New
Zealand NZX 50 Index added 1 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng
Index increased 2 percent and China’s Shanghai Composite Index
advanced 2.3 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 9.2 percent from the
end of October through yesterday as Japanese shares rallied on
speculation a new government led by Abe will press for more
stimulus to beat deflation. Asia’s benchmark traded at 14.8
times estimated earnings compared with 13.7 for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and 12.4 for the Stoxx Europe 600, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. Futures  Futures on the  S&P 500 Index  added 0.1 percent. The gauge
gained 1.3 percent yesterday and the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  advanced to the highest level in five years amid signs
the world’s largest economy is improving.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday
recent increases in some  interest rates  may signal the  U.S.
economy  is gaining vigor. Orders for U.S. durable goods
excluding transportation gear climbed in January by the most in
a year, while pending home sales increased more than forecast.  Exporters advanced.  James Hardie  gained 3.2 percent to
A$9.80 in Sydney.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s biggest
carmaker, rose 3.5 percent to 4,765 yen in Tokyo. Honda Motor
Co., which gets 44 percent of sales from  North America , climbed
3.8 percent to 3,455 yen.  “There’s a dawning realization from many people that they
are not being aggressive enough with their exposure to
equities,” said Glenn Morgan, head of Australian equity sales
at Deutsche Bank AG in Sydney. “The macro backdrop is still
looking better and companies are delivering. There’s a weight of
money sitting in cash, out of the market.”  Treasury Wine Estates Ltd. jumped 8.2 percent to A$5.30
after Australia’s biggest wine maker said first-half profit
increased 31 percent to A$52 million ($53 million), exceeding
the A$47 million median estimate of six analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  New World, Komatsu  New World gained 3.8 percent to HK$14.28 in Hong Kong after
reporting underlying profit jumped 45 percent to HK$4.1 billion
($529 million). That compares with the HK$3.2 billion median
estimate of four analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Of the 398 companies on the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  that
reported profits since January and for which estimates are
available, 50 percent exceeded expectations, data compiled by
Bloomberg showed.  Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , Japan’s biggest maker of construction
machinery, advanced 3.7 percent to 2,338 yen in Tokyo after the
Nikkei newspaper reported the company’s operating profit in the
year ending March 2014 will exceed 300 billion yen, without
saying where it got the information. That’s compared with the
285.10 billion yen average estimate by 25 analysts tracked by
Bloomberg.  Japan Exchange  Among stocks that declined, Japan Exchange Group Inc.,
which doubled in value since listing in January, slumped 11
percent to 7,060 yen. The shares may continue to trim gains
accumulated ahead of the bourse’s inclusion in  Japan ’s Topix
Index today and the MSCI All-Country World Index tomorrow,
according to SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.  “There’s been demand for the shares simply based on the
fact of their inclusion in the indexes,” Keiichi Ito, a
quantitative strategist at SMBC Nikko, said in a phone
interview. “When the events are over, there should be a
substantial negative impact.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  