-- U.S. Stocks Erase Gains; Europe Shares, Italy Bonds Rise
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-02-28T21:56:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/asian-stocks-climb-on-u-s-data-yen-weakens-as-crude-advances.html
U.S. stocks erased gains in the
final minutes of trading as investors prepared for rebalancing
of benchmark indexes and the Senate voted to keep $85 billion of
spending cuts in place. European  stocks  and Italian bonds
climbed for a second day, while oil slid to a 2013 low.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.1 percent to
1,514.68 at 4 p.m., erasing an earlier rally of as much as 0.6
percent and trimming its February gain to 1.1 percent. The  Stoxx
Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  added 1 percent and capped a ninth straight
monthly advance, the longest streak since 1997. The yield on 10-
year Italian bonds fell eight basis points to 4.73 percent,
while the euro weakened against 12 of 16 major peers. Gold
slipped for a second day and oil retreated to its lowest level
of the year. U.S. Treasuries rose.  Stocks  reversed course  after the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  earlier climbed to within 16 points of its record
closing level set in 2007. MSCI Inc. made changes to global and
U.S. equity indexes at the close of trading, a process known as
rebalancing that can lead to swings in affected stocks. The
rally also fizzled as the Senate rejected plans to replace
automatic spending spending cuts set to begin tomorrow.  “It was nothing more than the index rebalancing at the end
of the day as well as maybe some portfolio adjustments at the
end of the month,” Thomas Garcia, head of equity trading at
 Santa Fe , New Mexico-based Thornburg Investment Management Inc.,
said by e-mail. His firm oversees about $80 billion. “We have
had a nice run so far this year. Investors could be locking in
some gains into month end.”  Market Movers  Volume for S&P 500 stocks was 1.5 percent below the 30-day
average and trading in Dow Jones Industrial Average stocks was
5.2 percent lower, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc., UnitedHealth Group Inc. and Procter &
Gamble Co.  led the Dow  down 20.88 points to 14,054.49 after
earlier climbing as high as 14,149.15.   Limited Brands Inc. (LTD) , the owner of Victoria’s Secret chain,
rose 2.3 percent after profit jumped. J.C. Penney Co. tumbled 17
percent after saying its net loss widened to $552 million. Sears
Holdings Corp., the retailer controlled by hedge-fund manager
 Edward Lampert , slumped 5.2 percent after posting a fourth-
quarter loss that was larger than it forecast. Herbalife Ltd.
jumped 7.6 percent after agreeing to add two board members
chosen by  Carl Icahn  and allow him to boost his stake to as much
as 25 percent.  U.S. equities followed European shares higher earlier as
government reports bolstered optimism in the economy.  GDP Data  Gross domestic product in the U.S. grew at a 0.1 percent
annual rate, up from a previously estimated 0.1 percent drop,
revised figures from the Commerce Department showed. Jobless
claims decreased by 22,000 to 344,000 in the week ended Feb. 23,
the Labor Department said. The median forecast of 44 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for 360,000 applications.  Senators rejected a pair of partisan plans to replace the
automatic spending cuts, turning back a Democratic proposal,
51-49, and a Republican plan, 38-62, with 60 votes required for
each measure.  No additional congressional action is planned before the
start of the cuts, to be split between defense and non-defense
spending. The across-the-board reductions will total $1.2
trillion over nine years, with $85 billion set to take effect in
the remaining seven months of this fiscal year.  ‘Little Worried’  The late-day retreat in stocks is “people just positioning
before sequestration,”  Frank Ingarra , head trader at Greenwich,
Connecticut-based NorthCoast Asset Management LLC, said in a
telephone interview. His firm oversees $1.4 billion. “People on
the sidelines are a little worried so that makes sense.”  Treasuries rose for the first time in three days, with the
yield on 10-year notes falling two basis points to 1.88 percent.
The across-the-board cuts due to start in March may lower gross
domestic product by 0.6 percentage point and cost 750,000 jobs
by the end of 2013, the  Congressional Budget Office  said this
month.  The effects of the so-called sequester will be temporary
and replaced in the second quarter by a broader, long-term
package of spending cuts and revenue increases, S&P predicted in
a report today.  “The good news is that, in Standard & Poor’s Ratings
Services’ view, the underlying momentum in our economy will help
it withstand these drags on growth,” S&P said. “The bad news
is that if these budget cuts kick in, the economy would slow
unnecessarily, at least for a while.”  European Movers  The Stoxx 600 extended yesterday’s 0.9 percent advance for
the biggest two-day gain since the beginning of the year. Bayer
AG climbed 2.7 percent to a one-month high after the German
chemical maker forecast increasing sales this year. Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc slid 6.6 percent as Britain’s biggest
taxpayer-owned lender posted a wider full-year loss.  Italy ’s 10-year bond yield has dropped more than 16 basis
points in the past two days after jumping 41 basis points on
Feb. 26, following the inconclusive election results. The
securities capped their first monthly decline since July.  “There is speculation that Italy will form a coalition and
the market is taking that as positive news,” said Martin
Munksgaard, a bond trader at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen. “It
might not be a perfect situation but it’s far better than the
alternative. Berlusconi might not be as big a threat as the
market had feared, and European leaders will continue to put
pressure on Italy to reform.”  Spain’s 10-year bond yield fell 13 basis points today to
5.10 percent, compared with the 5.15 percent level at the close
on Feb. 22. The yield on benchmark German bunds was little
changed at 1.45 percent.  Yen’s Slide  The yen capped a fifth monthly decline against the dollar,
the longest run since August 2008. It weakened 0.5 percent 92.69
per dollar today after Prime Minister Shinzo Abe nominated Asian
Development Bank President Haruhiko Kuroda to become  Bank of
Japan  governor, raising the prospect of more stimulus this year.
Abe also named economics professor Kikuo Iwata and BOJ official
Hiroshi Nakaso as deputy governor candidates.  The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 commodities slid 0.3 percent, set
for monthly drop of 4 percent, the most since October. Gold
slipped 1.1 percent to $1,578.10 an ounce, falling for a fifth
straight month for the longest slump since 1997. West Texas
Intermediate lost 0.8 percent to $92.05 a barrel, down almost 6
percent this month. Aluminum, silver, lead, nickel and copper
all lost at least 0.7 percent today  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index gained for a second day,
climbing 0.8 percent. The Shanghai Composite Index advanced 2.3
percent as property developers rallied after China Vanke Co.’s
profit beat analyst estimates. Benchmark gauges in  Hungary , the
 Czech Republic ,  South Africa ,  Turkey , the  Philippines ,  Indonesia 
and  South Korea  jumped at least 1 percent.  India ’s Sensex slid 1.5 percent, with trading volume 144
percent higher than the 30-day average, as Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram signaled record borrowing in his budget
speech today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in  New York  at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  