-- Assembly-Line Pizza Draws Hungry Fast-Casual Investors
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-02-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/assembly-line-pizza-draws-hungry-fast-casual-investors.html
Maria Shriver has a thing for pizza
-- or at least investing in a chain that sells it.  Shriver and other cheesy-pie aficionados, including Boston
Red Sox co-owner Tom Werner, Panda Express founder Andrew Cherng
and “Alien vs. Predator” producer John Davis, have dropped $3
million into what they think will be the next great fast-casual
dining brand: Blaze Pizza.  “We love pizza,” Shriver,  California ’s former first lady,
said in an e-mail. “My son and I are really excited to be in
the pizza business. We love this concept.”  Investors are looking at chains like Blaze as millennials
flock to fast-casual eateries with prices under $10, fare that’s
healthier than fast food, speedy service and sleek stores.  While this segment is the fastest-growing among
restaurants, few chains are publicly traded for investors to put
money into. Everyone is looking for the next  Chipotle Mexican
Grill Inc. (CMG) , which has recently outperformed the dining category
and is trading at the third-highest price-to-earnings ratio of
all U.S. restaurants with a market capitalization of at least
$150 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Chipotle’s price-to-earnings multiple is 35, compared with an
average of 24 for all U.S. restaurants, the data show.  Restaurants last year began going public again after a
dearth following the recession that ended in June 2009. While
many fast-casual chains are still too small for an initial
public offering, there may be more of these types of eateries,
including Potbelly Sandwich Works, that go public as they
expand. Blaze is already talking about a possible IPO in three
or four years as it opens locations across the U.S., according
to co-founder Rick Wetzel.  Sales Gains  “The idea of being able to go to a restaurant and decide
how to make your individual pizza and have it taste good in less
than 2 minutes -- that sounded like a good idea,” the Red Sox’s
Werner said in a telephone interview.  Wetzel, who along with his wife, Elise, co-founded Blaze,
wooed the baseball-team owner at a dinner party at his home last
year by serving him some pizza, which Werner called
“outstanding.”  Sales at the top 500 U.S. fast-casual restaurants chains,
where customers usually order at a counter, increased 8.6
percent, while fast-food revenue rose 3.1 percent, in 2011, the
most recent year for which data is available, according to
Chicago-based researcher Technomic Inc. Sales at sit-down
restaurants, including fine dining, were up 2.8 percent in the
same time, the data show.  “There continues to be strength in the fast-casual
segment,” said Todd Hooper, a San Francisco-based strategist at
consultant Kurt Salmon. “You’re getting good food in a nice
environment, but you don’t have to tip.”  IPO Drought  Still, there has been a dearth of limited-service chains
going public. While four U.S. restaurant companies completed
initial public offerings last year, the most since 2006, when
Chipotle began trading, all four chains were sit-down eateries,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Institutional investors need to see that the restaurant’s
food can be replicated and that it resonates with customers in
different areas of the U.S., said Janna Sampson, who helps
manage about $3.2 billion, including McDonald’s Corp. and  Panera
Bread Co. (PNRA)  shares, at Oakbrook Investments in Lisle,  Illinois .  “You’d really need to see something that makes it
different than any other pizza,” Sampson said. “Pizza seems
like a tough one because it is done and done.”  Serious Interest  A restaurant needs to have at least 100 units to attract
“serious equity-money interest,” she said.  Wetzel said Blaze Pizza, which has just two locations in
California -- in  Irvine  and  Pasadena  -- can get there. The chain
is franchising rapidly and will have 15 stores in cities
including New York and Chicago by the end of this year, he said.  Blaze earlier this week signed an agreement with Lessing’s
Hospitality Group to open 10 stores in New York City; Long
Island and Westchester County, New York; and  Connecticut . It
also has locations planned for the Midwest in Milwaukee and
Madison,  Wisconsin .  Wetzel started his soft-pretzel snack eatery Wetzel’s
Pretzels in 1994 and has since expanded it to about 300 stores
worldwide. He never took it public because the growth
opportunity wasn’t there, he said. Not so with Blaze, which can
have 1,000 locations, almost all of which will be franchised, he
said. The first two locations are each on track for $1.5 million
to $2 million in sales a year, he said. Chipotle stores average
about $2 million in annual sales, according to a company filing.  Chipotle Concept  Similar to Chipotle restaurants, customers at Blaze move
along a service line and dress their 11-inch pizzas with
toppings including fresh arugula, gorgonzola cheese and grilled
chicken. The trick to adhering to the “fast” in fast-casual --
and cooking pizza faster than  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) ’s Pizza Hut and
 Domino’s Pizza Inc. (DPZ)  stores -- is the 800-degree oven, which
bakes the pies in about 120 seconds, Wetzel said.  “It’s Chipotle for pizza,” he said.  Along with its $6.85 pizzas, Blaze  sells  Caesar and caprini
salads as well as beer and wine. While there are no plans yet to
expand Blaze overseas, Wetzel has trademarked the name in about
30 countries.  “If these guys want to get to 100 units in the next three
or four years, they can do it through franchising,” said Rahul Aggarwal, managing director at Los Angeles-based Brentwood
Associates, a private-equity investor in fast-casual chains Zoes
Kitchen and Veggie Grill. While most fast-casual restaurants
aren’t yet large enough to be public, “you’re going to see that
change,” said Aggarwal, who has not invested in Blaze.  Panera and Chipotle are really the only ones that are
available for institutional investors on the public market, he
said.  “Over the next couple of years, there will be more than
just two public companies in the fast-casual space.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in  Chicago  at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  