-- At $445,000, Lamborghini Guarantees to Get You Noticed
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2013-02-28T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/at-445-000-lamborghini-guarantees-to-get-you-noticed.html
There are cars that get attention.
And then there are Lamborghinis.  If you want every eye in the vicinity on you, the company,
part of the Volkswagen Group, has a new product for you, the
 Aventador LP 700-4 Roadster . The convertible version of the
regular old Aventador, it’s the carmaker’s top-of-the-line
offering. This automotive calling card should help qualify you
as an international golden boy or girl.  But better to look over the criteria and make sure. Let’s
start with -- the buy-in. Will your friends, some of whom
recently dropped serious dough at Art Basel-Miami be impressed?  With its price of $445,300, perhaps. More competitive
friends may scoff until you mention the options that push the
tab past the half-million-dollar mark. Heated and electrically
adjustable seats cost an extra $4,200, and the essential backup
camera another $4,900.  But it’s the forged aluminum rims on the wheels that will
gain you extra notice ($6,780) among the supercar crowds. You
can also get an exterior carbon fiber package, which is all for
show, but looks incredible. Swatches of the pricey black fiber
wrap around intakes and window edges -- a killer detail.  Buck Rogers  Lamborghinis have always been known for avant-garde shapes,
many of which look more like Buck Rogers flying machines than
conventional cars. (The 1960s Miura is still a favorite of those
with a keen architectural eye.)  The convertible Aventador is as radical as any road-going
car in production. It looks stunning in photos, and in person
it’s overwhelming. The car is wider than a barn, shorter than a
Hobbit, with massive 20 and 21-inch wheels that could fit a
tractor.  The Roadster has the general shape of the coupe, including
the low roof line. The carbon-fiber roof must be removed
manually (as in, you or your man servant will have to do it).  The engine isn’t located in the front like a conventional
car. Rather, it is behind the cockpit, helping balance weight.  Full Disclosure  Both models have glass windows located in this area,
allowing gawkers to actually see the engine. The roadster’s
engine cover has been smartly reworked, using stacked glass
panels. It’s a distinctly Lamborghini, “wow” design.  Speaking of the engine, it’s extraordinary. Just like the
rest of the car’s specifications.  The engine is a 12-cylinder, 6.5-liter, naturally aspirated
monster. It has 691 horsepower and 509 pound-feet of torque. You
can explain to your fancy new friends in Jay-Z’s private skybox
suite at the Barclays Center how truly impressive that is.  The Aventador is able to deactivate half of its engine
cylinders when they’re not needed, helping to lessen C02
emissions. Still, depending whether you take glee in being
politically incorrect, you can either make a point of its gas
mileage (11 city, 17 highway) or gloss right over it saying it’s
better for the environment than a Lear jet.  Wind Blown  But, you know, is it fast? Oh, heavens, clearly. In fact,
we should warn you that any passenger who had a recent $300
salon blow-out might become miffed after you accelerate from a
stand-still to 100 kilometers per hour (62 MPH) with the top
down in 3.2 seconds.  The car is also capable of a mind-bending 217 mph, with the
roof up or down. In fact, we really should mention the drive.  It has a seven-speed automated manual transmission. When
squiring about town, top down, and the roadster can be left in
automatic. While it’s never exactly Sade smooth, it’s not buck
wild, either.  Until you put it into sport or race modes. Then the engine
note seems coarser, gear shifts become increasingly vicious and
the suspension less forgiving.  Honestly you don’t buy a convertible Aventador to take it
on the racetrack or even zing along narrow mountain roads (it’s
just too wide for comfort).  You buy it to take the top off, tap the power for seconds
at a time, and wow your passenger. Few will have ever
experienced anything like it.  Besides, being able to buy a car like the Roadster means
you’re into rarity. You will be noticed.  The Lamborghini Aventador LP 700-4 Roadster at a Glance  Engine: 6.5-liter 12-cylinder with 691 hp and 509 pound-feet of torque  Transmission: Seven-speed automated manual.  Speed: 0 to 62 mph in 3.2 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 11 city; 17 highway.  Price as tested: $482,000.  Best feature: The eye-popping design.  Worst feature: Eye-popping price.  Target buyer: The man who has it all.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include Catherine Hickley on film and Scott
Reyburn on art.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason Harper at  jason@jasonharper.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  