-- AT&T Goes After T-Mobile With Attack Ads
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-03-01T13:39:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/at-t-goes-after-former-merger-partner-t-mobile-with-attack-ads.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  took aim at T-Mobile USA’s
network performance in newspapers ads yesterday, escalating a
rivalry between two companies that were once poised to merge.  Responding to unspecified claims by T-Mobile, AT&T ran a
full-page counterattack in the  New York  Times, the Wall Street
Journal and  USA Today . The ads say T-Mobile drops twice as many
calls and its network speeds are only half as fast as AT&T’s.  Tension between the companies began to flare at the
 Consumer Electronics Show  in Las Vegas in January, when T-Mobile
Chief Executive Officer John Legere called AT&T’s network
“crap.” Legere, who took over in September, has branded his
company the “un-carrier” and vowed to shake up the industry.
After seeing the new AT&T ad, T-Mobile said it was surprised and
pleased by the attention being paid to a smaller competitor.  “Wow. Looks like we struck a chord,” Chief Marketing
Officer Mike Sievert said in an e-mail. “AT&T doth protest too
much. Glad they’re spending their money to print our name.”  In criticizing T-Mobile, AT&T is going after the industry’s
underdog. While  Verizon Wireless  and AT&T dominate the U.S.
wireless market, T-Mobile is a distant No. 4. The Bellevue,
Washington-based carrier, owned by German phone company  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE) , lost 2.1 million subscribers last year, including
515,000 in the fourth quarter.  ‘Plain Wrong’  T-Mobile’s recent ads have touted the speed and geographic
reach of its new fourth-generation network.  “T-Mobile’s advertising is a combination of misguided and
just plain wrong,” said  Mark Siegel , a spokesman for Dallas-
based AT&T. The newspaper ad was “just a friendly reminder of
the fact that independent third-party testing says AT&T’s
network delivers faster speeds and fewer dropped calls than
them.”  The sharp response underscores a sensitivity to network
quality issues that dates back about five years, when AT&T first
rolled out Apple Inc.’s iPhone. While the device surged in
popularity, so did complaints about AT&T’s overburdened service.  AT&T’s 4G network -- a speedier system using a technology
called long-term evolution, or LTE -- has helped the carrier
improve its reputation.  Consumer Reports , which gives AT&T
“middling to low marks” overall, cited the LTE network as a
user favorite in its latest  report .  AT&T had planned to shore up its network by acquiring T-
Mobile in a $39 billion deal. The merger proposal was scuttled
in 2011 after regulators raised concerns about diminishing
competition in the industry. Since then, AT&T has been trying to
piece together more network capacity through smaller deals.  T-Mobile, meanwhile, announced plans in October to merge
with  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS) , a smaller carrier that
focuses on prepaid customers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  