-- Tata Steel Convertibles Fall From One-Year High: India Credit
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l   a n d   B h u m a   S h r i v a s t a v a
-- 2013-02-28T05:43:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/tata-steel-convertibles-fall-from-one-year-high-india-credit.html
Tata Steel Ltd.’s (TATA)  convertible bonds
are falling from a one-year high on concern a plan to borrow
$2.4 billion will worsen the finances of India’s top steelmaker,
after the biggest loss in more than three years.  The company’s 4.5 percent equity-linked notes due 2014 have
slid 1 percent from a Jan. 15 peak, driving the yield up by 53
basis points to 3.96 percent, prices from Jefferies Group Inc.
show. Offshore  Asian debt  that can be exchanged for shares rose
1 percent, according to a Nomura International Inc. index. Tata
Steel, which has liabilities minus cash of $10.5 billion, plans
to raise as much as 130 billion rupees ($2.4 billion) in the
next six months for part of a project due to be completed by
August 2014, Chief Finance Officer Kaushik Chatterjee said.  Indian convertible bonds are set for the first monthly loss
since May as investors including ISM Capital LLP said the
region’s highest interest rates are eroding cash and worsening
corporate finances. Losses at Tata Steel,  India ’s fifth most-
indebted non-financial company, more than doubled last quarter
from the preceding period as a worldwide economic slump eroded
steel-industry earnings.  “Investors would get uncomfortable if Tata Steel’s debt
isn’t consolidated,” Juergen Maier, a Vienna-based fund manager
at Raiffeisen Capital Management, which oversees about $1.1
billion in emerging-market assets, said in a Feb. 25 interview.
“We have to keep in mind investors aren’t looking at the sector
with optimism.”  Interest Expense  The steelmaker’s interest  expenses  surged 38 percent in the
nine months through December from a year earlier to 29.7 billion
rupees, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its  shares  lost
about 22 percent in the past year in Mumbai trading, even as the
 S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  index of local stocks advanced 8.6 percent. The
company will raise bank loans under the plan for additional
borrowings for its new mill in the eastern state of Odisha,
previously known as Orissa, according to CFO Chatterjee.  Project financing is at an advanced stage, he said on a
conference call on Feb. 13. “We will be funding almost 50
percent through debt and 50 percent through equity,” he said.  The company aims to raise about 260 billion rupees in loans
due in more than eight years, paying an interest rate of about
11.25 percent, two people with direct knowledge of the deal, who
asked not to be identified because the details are private, said
in August.  Borrowing Plan  “To ensure that the project of this size and complexity is
not at any stage found short of funds, debt is being tied up for
the project,” Tata Steel’s Mumbai-based spokesman Charudatta
Deshpande wrote in an e-mail on Feb. 21, responding to Bloomberg
News questions. “This doesn’t translate into drawing of debt.”  The company is still evaluating its options to access
credit and will finalize the type of financing when it’s ready
to raise the funds, Deshpande wrote.  Bond risk for the European unit of Tata Steel, part of
India’s biggest business group, is climbing from a 16-month low.
The cost of insuring the company against non-payment for two
years using credit-default swaps has increased to 207 basis
points from 172 on Jan. 10, according to data provider CMA,
which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in privately negotiated markets.  Losses Widen  The alloy maker’s  losses , including that of unit Tata Steel
 Europe  Ltd., widened to 7.63 billion rupees in the three months
ended Dec. 31 from 6.03 billion rupees a year earlier, the
Mumbai-based company said in a statement on Feb. 13. The median
loss estimate of 25 analysts in a Bloomberg survey was 1.99
billion rupees.  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s largest producer,
reported on Feb. 6 a decline in fourth-quarter earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization to $1.32 billion
from $1.71 billion a year earlier.  Producers in Europe, where Tata generates two-thirds of its
output, are grappling with excess capacity, falling prices and
rising operating costs. The region has a capacity to make about
210 million metric tons of steel a year, while demand in a
“normal market” is 150 million to 160 million tons, according
to industry lobby group Eurofer.  Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings have negative outlooks on Tata Steel’s  ratings . Moody’s
cut the ranking for the firm’s European operations to junk in
August. Crisil Ltd., the Indian unit of S&P, rates the parent’s
rupee-denominated debt AA, the third-highest investment grade.  Rupee Rates  Relatively high interest costs in India are adding to the
pressure on local company finances.  Rupee-denominated five-year corporate  debt  rated AAA by
Crisil yield 8.93 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Similar  notes  offer 4.74 percent in  China . Ten-year sovereign
bonds in India pay 7.79 percent, compared with 3.58 percent in
China and 1.90 percent in the U.S.  The yield on the 8.15 percent government debt due June 2022
fell one basis point in Mumbai today, offering an  extra  590
basis points over Treasuries. Indian sovereign notes returned
11.6 percent in the past year, trailing the 11.8 percent earned
by Philippine securities in the best performance among Asia’s 10
biggest markets, according to HSBC Holdings Plc indexes. The
rupee strengthened 0.3 percent to 53.69 per dollar today.  ‘Lack of Demand’  “Core sectors like cement and steel are under pressure due
to lack of demand and high borrowing costs,” said D.R. Dogra,
managing director of CARE Ratings Ltd., a Mumbai-based risk
assessor that covers 1,200 companies. “A combination of
monetary and fiscal factors is needed to boost demand and to
revive the sectors.”  Reserve Bank of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao cut the
benchmark  repurchase rate  on Jan. 29 by 25 basis points to 7.75
percent, the first reduction in nine months, to support the
economy. Since mid-September, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh has
allowed more foreign investment in industries and markets and
cut taxes on companies’ overseas debt to spur growth.  That helped lower the yield on Tata Steel’s 10.2 percent
rupee-denominated debt due 2015 to 9.15 percent at the end of
January from last year’s peak of 10.30 percent in May, prices
from the  Fixed Income Money Market and Derivatives Association
of India  show.  The steelmaker faces $4.69 billion in  repayments  of
existing obligations in the next three years, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The Tata group needs to lower its liabilities to
a “more manageable level,” Ratan Tata, who retired as its
chairman in December, said in an interview with Financial Times
published on the newspaper’s website on Dec. 6.  Cutting Jobs  Tata Steel plans to restructure its U.K. business, cutting
900 jobs and closing 12 sites, it said in a statement on Nov.
23. The reductions will include the loss of 580 jobs and the
closing of its Tafarnaubach and Cross Keys plants in South
Wales, according to the statement.  “Steelmakers should consider consolidating their debt
before there is a greater impact on margins and bottom lines,”
said Walter Rossini, who manages about $200 million in Indian
assets at Aletti Gestielle SGR SpA in Milan. “Investors are
bearing in mind that interest costs are high and won’t fall
anytime soon. Investments in steel may be at risk if there is no
positive news flow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net ;
Bhuma Shrivastava in Mumbai at 
 bshrivastav1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  