-- Atletico Sets Up All-Madrid Cup Final; Beckham Starts in PSG Win
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-02-28T00:15:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/atletico-sets-up-all-madrid-cup-final-beckham-starts-in-psg-win.html
Atletico Madrid  advanced to a Copa
del Rey soccer final against Real Madrid after a 2-2 draw at
Sevilla, while  David Beckham  helped Paris Saint-Germain reach
the French Cup quarterfinals in his first start for the club.  Leading 2-1 after the semifinal opener, Atletico went 4-1
up over the two matches after Diego Costa and Radamel Falcao
scored in Seville last night. Jesus Navas and Ivan Rakitic tied
it for the home team, which had Gary Medel and Geoffrey
Kondogbia red-carded, as Atletico completed a 4-3 aggregate win.  The May 18 final, which will take place at a neutral venue,
will be the first all-Madrid matchup in the Copa del Rey title
game since 1992, when Atletico beat Real 2-0.  Real won 3-1 at defending champion Barcelona two days ago
to complete a 4-2 victory over two games and reach the final of
 Spain ’s elite cup competition for a record-extending 38th time.  In France, Beckham played 86 minutes of PSG’s round of 16
victory against Marseille in the French Cup. It was the former
England captain’s first start since joining on a five-month
contract at the end of January.  Swedish striker Zlatan Ibrahimovic got a goal in each half
to give French league leader PSG its second 2-0 win against
Marseille in four days after beating its archrival on Feb. 24 in
Ligue 1.  Lorient and Nancy also won to join PSG in the quarterfinal
draw, while Bordeaux beat fourth-tier Raon-L’Etape 5-3 in a
penalty shootout after their match finished 2-2.  Bayern Munich  stayed on course for a domestic league and
cup double as  Arjen Robben  scored the only goal in his team’s
German Cup quarterfinal win against  Borussia Dortmund .  Bayern, which has a 17-point lead over Dortmund atop the
Bundesliga, will face Stuttgart, Wolfsburg or Freiburg in the
semifinals. The draw takes place March 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  