-- Australia’s LNG Ltd. in Partnership Talks for U.S. Export Plant
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-02-28T04:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/australia-s-lng-ltd-in-partnership-talks-for-u-s-export-plant.html
Liquefied Natural Gas Ltd. (LNG) , an
Australian company planning to export the fuel from a proposed
$2.2 billion plant in the U.S., said it’s in talks with partners
and gas suppliers to feed the venture.  “We’ve had discussions with quite a number of players and
there are two in particular we’re very focused on,” Chief
Executive Officer Maurice Brand said today by phone from Houston.
“We’re looking for those talks to be documented in a
preliminary agreement as quick as we can.”  LNG Ltd., backed by  China  National Petroleum Corp., plans
to decide on whether to proceed with the Magnolia LNG venture in
 Louisiana  at the end of 2014 and to start production in late
2017. A natural gas glut that has driven U.S. prices to the
lowest in a decade is prompting companies including LNG Ltd. to
seek approval to ship the fuel overseas.  The Perth-based company, also planning the $1.7 billion
Fisherman’s Landing project in  Australia  to tap Asian demand,
said it aims to develop LNG plants at about half the cost of
other projects. LNG Ltd. is also considering a third development
in North America, Brand said.  The Magnolia LNG venture received approval from the U.S.
Department of Energy to export as much as 4 million metric tons
of LNG a year from the Port of Lake Charles to free-trade
agreement countries, LNG Ltd. said today in a statement.  Japan ,
China,  Taiwan  and  India , all non-FTA countries, account for
about half of world LNG demand, according to the International
Group of Liquefied Natural Gas Importers.  The Australian company,  about 20 percent-owned  by CNPC unit
China Huanqiu Contracting & Engineering Corp., plans to start
the process to get approval from the U.S. Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission in March, Brand said. The project would be
built in two phases and have a total capacity of as much as 8
million tons of LNG a year, according to the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  