-- U.S. Auto Sales Seen as Best Since 2007 on Low Financing
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-02-28T15:12:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/auto-sales-reach-pre-recession-level-on-low-financing.html
New car buyers, shunned by lenders
just four years ago, now are benefiting from historically low
 interest rates  and more-available credit, pacing a U.S. auto
market that is hovering near pre-recession levels.  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  AutoNation Inc. (AN) , respectively the
top-selling automaker and dealership group in the U.S., are
among companies pointing to ample financing for new car and
truck purchases pushing sales comfortably past 15 million this
year, the highest since 2007.  “We have the best financing available for our customers
ever,”  Mike Jackson , the chief executive officer of  Fort
Lauderdale , Florida-based AutoNation, told a J.D. Power &
Associates conference this month in Orlando, Florida. “I go
back to ’08 and ’09, and I couldn’t get the Lord Above
financed.”  U.S. light-vehicle sales probably climbed 3.7 percent in
February to 1.19 million, the average estimate of 10 analysts in
a Bloomberg survey. The annualized industry sales  rate , which is
adjusted for seasonal trends, may have matched January’s pace of
15.3 million, the average of 15 analysts’ estimates.  “No industry has benefited more from the unfreezing of the
credit markets than new and used vehicles,” Tom Webb, chief
economist of Manheim Consulting, said this month in a report.
“Although the immediate goal of Federal Reserve actions was to
lower long-term rates and support the mortgage market, it was
auto-financing markets that enjoyed the first boosts.”  Leasing Returns  GM, whose former finance unit needed a bailout because of
losses on subprime home mortgages, saw “a number of lenders”
completely exit auto leasing during the recession, said Kurt McNeil, vice president of U.S. sales operations. The Detroit-
based automaker is now building General Motors Financial Co. and
has seen lenders including  Ally Financial  Inc., the former GM
unit, and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , expand their offerings to its
dealers and customers.  “The availability of  consumer credit  is plentiful,”
McNeil said this month in an interview at a National Automobile
Dealers Association convention in Orlando. “More lenders are
interested in getting back into various elements of our
business. That just fuels opportunity.”  The percentage of new-vehicle sales that were leases has
exceeded 20 percent since the beginning of 2010 and has reached
about 25 percent the past three months,  Kevin Tynan , a senior
analyst at Bloomberg Industries, said in a Feb. 25 report.  Banks reported the most common rate for a 48-month new-car
loan was  4.82 percent  in November, the most-recent reporting
period. The rates have dropped from more than 7 percent before
the Fed lowered its target interest rate to zero in December
2008 and began large-scale asset purchases to boost growth.  Ford Gaining  Ford Motor Co. (F)  probably boosted sales of its cars and light
trucks more than any major automaker in February, with an
increase of 9.8 percent, the average of 11 estimates. GM
probably sold 4.9 percent more vehicles than a year earlier, the
average of 11 estimates.  Deliveries of Ford’s Explorer sport-utility vehicle will
increase more than 50 percent from a year earlier, Angie Kozleski, a spokeswoman for the Dearborn, Michigan-based
company, said in an e-mail.  Rising demand is leading automakers to invest and add
workers at U.S. plants. Ford said this month it will spend $200
million to boost production at an Ohio plant of a four-cylinder
engine that goes into vehicles including the Explorer. The
factory will start production of the engine in late 2014 and add
450 jobs.  Employment Rises  The number of people employed in motor-vehicle and parts
manufacturing climbed to 786,500 at the end of 2012, from
653,400 three years earlier, according to the Labor Department.  “Credit availability is a big part of supporting the
growth of the  auto industry ,” Joe Hinrichs, Ford’s president of
the Americas, told reporters on Feb. 21 at the company’s engine
plant near  Cleveland . “Dealers are feeling more optimistic
about leasing and credit availability for consumers.”  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  may post the second-biggest increase among
the largest automakers, with a 9.2 percent gain in combined
sales for its Volkswagen and Audi brands, the average of four
estimates.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  deliveries probably rose 8.5
percent, the average of eight estimates.  Ally Financial, formerly known as GMAC Inc. and wholly
owned by GM until 2006, probably will lose its lead this year
for financing the most new- and used-vehicle sales in the U.S.,
Bill Muir, the company’s president and head of auto operations,
said in an interview. Wells Fargo topped Ally in last year’s
third quarter.  ‘No Question’  Banks are “awash in deposits” and putting them to use in
lending to auto buyers with the best credit, said  Michael Carpenter , Ally’s CEO.  “There’s no question, for I think understandable reasons,
that the automotive market bounced back first,” Carpenter said
in an interview at the NADA convention. “You’re not making a
bet on a housing recovery and what’s happening to  house prices .
You’re making a bet on a loan over four years on a vehicle”
that is “indispensable” to millions of Americans.  GM and Chrysler Group LLC are letting deals with Detroit-
based Ally expire this year that have guaranteed a minimum
percentage of their vehicles sold with so-called subvented
loans, those made to consumers at below-market rates. Chrysler
this month agreed to form a financing venture with  Banco
Santander SA. (SAN)   Before settling on Santander, Chrysler received a “number
of proposals” from financial companies that weren’t interested
in the automaker three or four years ago,  Reid Bigland ,
Chrysler’s U.S. sales chief, said in an interview.  ‘Very Attractive’  Credit availability and low interest rates were “tops on
the list” of reasons why U.S. auto sales rose 13 percent last
year, the biggest annual increase since 1984, Bigland said at
the NADA convention. The  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based company
probably boosted sales by 4.4 percent in February, the average
of 11 estimates.  “The returns in the auto business over the last few years
have been very attractive,” Trip Hall, president of Capital One
Auto Finance, said in an interview. “That’s caused increasing
competitive activity in the market, new entrants and players
expanding from where they have been in the past.”  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  may have increased sales in February by 0.7
percent and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  deliveries probably slipped 3.3
percent, both the average of eight analysts’ estimates.  Analysts estimate that Seoul-based  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and
 Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  may have combined to sell 5.1 percent fewer
vehicles in February compared with a year earlier, the average
of six estimates.  The following table shows estimates for car and light-truck
sales in the U.S. Estimates for companies are a percentage
change from February 2012. Forecasts for the seasonally adjusted
annualized rate, or SAAR, are in millions of light vehicles.  February had 24 selling days, one fewer than in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  