-- Clashes Kill 35 in Bangladesh After Islamist Sentenced to Hang
-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-03-01T06:09:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/bangladesh-sentences-islamist-leader-to-death-amid-dhaka-protest.html
Clashes between police and
supporters of  Bangladesh ’s biggest Islamic party killed 35
people after a war crimes tribunal sentenced one of the group’s
leaders to death for atrocities committed four decades ago.  Police tightened security amid concern there would be
further violence after Friday prayers. The dead included three
policemen, while 800 people were injured, as  Jamaat-e-Islami 
activists rioted yesterday following the verdict against Delwar
Hossain Sayedee, 73, the Samakal newspaper said.  The clashes expose the deep divisions in Bangladesh over
the war that led to its independence from Pakistan in 1971.
While mainly secularist, middle-class protesters have been
occupying a square in Bangladesh’s capital since Feb. 5
demanding harsher penalties for those found guilty by the
tribunal, supporters of Islamic parties say the trials are
politically motivated.  “The Jamaat-e-Islami is fighting for its political
survival,” said S. Chandrasekharan, director of the South Asia
Analysis Group, based in  New Delhi . “If its leaders are proven
in court to have done all these things, it will severely hurt”
their electoral prospects, he said.  Jamaat called a two-day nationwide strike starting March 3
to protest the death sentence and the killings of its supporters
in yesterday’s protests. The party said 44 people died in the
clashes. Paramilitary forces were also deployed.  The Islamic Foundation, which is run by the Ministry of
Religious Affairs, asked for mosques to avoid inflaming the
situation. The group made the appeal after protesters at a
mosque in Dhaka on Feb. 22 threw stones at police, smashed gates
and set fire to prayer mats in protest at the ongoing  war crimes 
trial and Facebook postings they said were blasphemous.  ‘Victory Day’  Sayedee, who was in court when the verdict was delivered,
faced 19 charges including the murder of civilians,
collaborating with the Pakistani army to kill and torture
unarmed people, torching homes and carrying out atrocities
against the Hindu community, according to a court document
detailing the indictment. Eight charges were proved beyond
reasonable doubt, prosecutors said.  This was tribunal’s first verdict since thousands of
protesters began occupying Shahbag square in central Dhaka at
the beginning of last month.  “It’s a victory day, it’s a day of joy. Through this
verdict, the nation is seeing the resurgence of liberation war
spirits,” Attorney General Mahbubey Alam told reporters at the
tribunal premises in Dhaka yesterday amid heightened security.  Fight Continues  Sayedee was sentenced to death on two specific charges of
killing unarmed people in the southern district of Pirojpur,
Alam said.  The judges -- led by Justice A.T.M. Fazle Kabir -- said in
their summary of the verdict that international law imposed no
statute of limitations on war crimes.  Demonstrators led by Imran Sarkar, convener of a group
known as the Bloggers and Online Activists Network, called for
the death penalty for Sayedee as they poured into the capital’s
financial district of Motijheel Feb. 27.  “We won’t give up the fight until we get justice,” Sarkar
said in a statement to the media. The protesters later relocated
to Shahbag, the rallying point for anti-Jamaat activists.  Dhaka Rallies  At the end of British colonial rule in 1947, East and West
 Pakistan  were separated by 2,000 kilometers (1,241 miles) of
Indian territory. Pakistani troops in 1971 attempted to quell a
nationalist uprising in the east that was triggered by the
jailing of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, who had led his Awami League
to victory in elections. The war ended nine months later with
the creation of Bangladesh after Indian forces helped defeat
Pakistan’s army.  As crowds swelled in Shahbag, Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina Wajed Feb. 17 empowered the tribunal to punish any organization
whose members carried out crimes during the independence fight.
The move sparked  reports  the government was preparing to ban
Jamaat, an extremist group which sided with Pakistan during the
war and whose members account for nine of the dozen people
facing the tribunal.  Previously judges could only put individuals on trial. In
another change, prosecutors can now appeal any of the panel’s
verdicts.  In a sign of the widespread anger the alleged mass murders,
rapes and abductions four decades ago can still provoke, the
Dhaka protest site has drawn bloggers, writers, singers,
teachers, students, and the country’s cricket team. Police say
the gathering has at times swelled to 100,000 people.  Historic Wrong  While Hasina, Sheikh Mujibur’s daughter, says the tribunal
is about righting an historic wrong, opponents have called the
trials politically motivated. Jamaat is an ally of Hasina’s main
rival, the Bangladesh Nationalist Party, and won nearly 5
percent of votes cast in the nation’s parliamentary election in
2008, according to the Bangladesh Election Commission.  The Shahbag protests began after the tribunal Feb. 5 gave a
jail term to Jamaat leader Abdul Quader Mollah.  The protesters defend their call for the death penalty for
the guilty by saying that people like Mollah would be freed from
jail if Jamaat once again has a role in government.  Sayedee was involved in the abduction, confinement and rape
of women, including Hindus, in Pirojpur, according to the court
document. He also forced some Hindus to convert to Islam, an act
the court considers a crime against humanity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  