-- Banker Bonuses Face Toughest Curbs in EU Basel Law Deal
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-02-28T17:45:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/banker-bonuses-face-world-s-toughest-curbs-in-eu-basel-law-deal.html
Bankers (SX7P)  in the European Union, who
already have the toughest bonus curbs in the Group of 20
nations, may face even stricter pay limits under a draft deal to
bolster lenders’ capital requirements and rewrite the bloc’s
financial industry rulebook.  European Parliament lawmakers and national government
officials agreed to ban bonuses that are more than twice
bankers’ fixed pay, in a tentative deal that may end more than
18 months of wrangling over how the EU will apply global bank
rules drawn up by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision .  The deal, which applies to all bankers in the European
Union as well as to employees of EU lenders anywhere in the
world, means “less money for bonuses and more money for jobs
and investment,” Udo Bullmann, the lawmaker leading work on the
rules for the parliament’s socialist group, told reporters in
Brussels today. “We are going further, we are saying that the
bonus system itself must change.”  EU legislators demanded that the law implementing the so-
called Basel III pact include curbs on variable pay as part of a
quest to reshape lenders as utilities rather than money-making
machines. Under today’s deal, which still needs formal
endorsement by governments and lawmakers, shareholders would
have to approve any bonuses that top salary, by a two-thirds
margin or a 75 percent vote if less than half a bank’s ownership
is represented.  U.K. Concerns  Prime Minister  David Cameron  said Britain, which has
opposed previous drafts of the pay rules, would study the
compromise ahead of a meeting of EU finance ministers next week.  The U.K. raised concerns over the lack of an impact
assessment of the planned bonus curbs at a separate meeting of
diplomats in Brussels today. Britain also questioned whether the
plans are in line with international agreements, according to an
EU official, who isn’t authorized to be cited by name.  The draft pay rules would “increase fixed costs at a
crucial time of bank restructuring,” Simon Lewis, chief
executive officer at the Association for Financial Markets in
 Europe , said in an e-mail. “This will seriously harm European
competitiveness and have a negative impact on the real
economy.”  AFME represents international lenders including  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK) ,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc. (RBS)   The bonus restrictions come as some of Europe’s largest
banks take steps to reduce variable pay in response to scandals
such as rate manipulation or dips in performance.  Deferred Awards  While bonuses double fixed pay would be banned, the
compromise deal would offer banks some leeway on how to apply
the measure when parts of the award are deferred.  Some shares and other securities that can face losses in
crises wouldn’t be fully counted when calculating whether a
bonus exceeds the cap. This special treatment would only apply
to securities that couldn’t be sold for at least five years
after the bonus is awarded.  “The EU is taking the toughest approach of any major
market to date on banker pay,” Karen Shaw Petrou, managing
partner of Washington-based Federal Financial Analytics Inc.,
said in an e-mail. “Banks may be getting a lot of regulatory
leeway, but bankers will pay for it in their compensation
packets,” she said.  Face Value  Under the compromise, loss-absorbing securities could be
priced at below face value in calculating whether a banker bonus
meets the EU rules. These instruments could count for as much as
a quarter of a bonus award. EU officials said that the bloc was
aiming to introduce the law on Jan. 1, 2014, with July 1, 2014,
as a fall-back date depending on how long it takes to adopt and
publish the final text.  Bonus awards could be retroactively slashed if a banker was
found to have misled the company about his performance.  “Bonuses will still remain quite substantial despite this
cap,”  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, told
reporters.  Today’s deal follows calls last year from European
Parliament lawmakers for an outright ban on bonuses that exceed
fixed pay.  National governments resisted such a move, warning that it
could harm banks’ competitiveness and force lenders to increase
basic salaries. The U.K. earlier this month advocated an
alternative approach in which up-front cash bonuses would be
capped, while it would be left to shareholders to set overall
limits on variable pay. Bank units based outside the EU would
have been exempt from the rules.  Well Balanced  Michael Noonan , finance minister for Ireland, which holds
the EU’s rotating presidency, said the compromise reached today
was “well balanced.” Ireland represented national governments
in the negotiations.  “I will be presenting this package to finance ministers
when we meet in Brussels next Tuesday and I hope they will
endorse it,” Noonan said in an e-mailed statement.  “We’ll look carefully at what the outcome of the
negotiations was before working out the approach we’ll take at
Ecofin next week,” Cameron told reporters this morning,
referring to next week’s finance ministers’ meeting.  “We have major international banks that are based in the
U.K. but have branches and activities all over the world, and we
need to make sure that regulation put in place in Brussels is
flexible enough to allow those banks to continue competing and
succeeding while being located in the U.K.,” Cameron said,
according to an e-mailed copy of his remarks.  ‘No Exceptions’  Othmar Karas , the parliament’s lead lawmaker on the rules,
said the bonus curbs would apply to units of EU banks situated
beyond the EU’s borders and also to units of non-EU banks
located in the bloc, with “no exceptions.”  The impact on recruitment of extending the bonus curbs to
EU banks’ overseas units will be reviewed, according to EU
officials.  The deal will put EU banks “at a major disadvantage in the
global market,” Alex Beidas, an employee-incentives specialist
at lawfirm Linklaters LLP, said in an e-mail. “There is a real
danger that this will result in bankers moving to the U.S. and
 Asia .”  The Parliament plans to vote on the measures in April,
Karas said, adding that he expected “full agreement” from
governments on the deal that was reached.  The accord on the Basel capital rules means the EU may
overtake the U.S. in its progress toward implementing the
international standards, which were published in 2010 in an
effort to prevent any repeat of the financial crisis that
followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Missed Deadline  Regulators on both sides of the Atlantic missed a January
deadline to begin legally phasing in the Basel III measures,
which more than triple the core reserves that lenders must hold
against possible losses.  EU Parliament lawmakers also secured an agreement that
banks should be forced to publish the profits they make and
taxes they incur, broken down by each country in which they
operate, officials said after the deal. The European Commission
plans a review before the measure takes effect to assess the
possible impact on lenders, they said.  Luxembourg raised concerns about this part of the accord at
the meeting of diplomats in Brussels that followed the overnight
talks.  To reach a deal, negotiators added to and amended plans
from the Basel committee, which drew up the international
standards as part of its efforts to bring together banking
regulators from 27 nations including to the U.S., U.K., and
 China  to coordinate their rule-making.  Cash Payouts  Today’s agreement on bonuses adds to a previous round of EU
banker pay rules, which took effect in 2011. The earlier
measures limit bankers to receiving about 25 percent of their
bonuses in immediate cash payouts, with the rest of the cash
component deferred for a minimum of three years. The standards
also require bonus awards to be split between shares and cash.  “The existing EU remuneration rules are already the
toughest in the world,” Beidas said.  “It is clear when you review all the rules alongside each
other that the EU set the high watermark in 2011,” she said.  The Basel committee warned last year that the EU’s
implementation of Basel III may not be faithful to the global
accord. The group said the EU may not apply sufficiently strict
rules to banks with insurance arms, or set tough enough rules on
the definition of what securities count as capital.  The deal is not “Basel compliant,” Vicky Ford, the
lawmaker working on the rules for the parliament’s conservative
group, told reporters. Still, “it could have been an awful lot
less compliant,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  