-- Barnes & Noble Loss Seen Accelerating Selling of Stores
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-02-28T21:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/barnes-noble-has-6-06-million-loss-as-nook-sales-slow.html
Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) ’s surprise loss
during what’s usually its most profitable quarter was triggered
by a 26 percent sales drop at Nook, the only segment that had
been growing and is essential to aiding a shift to e-books.  The net loss of $6.06 million, which included $74 million
in charges from plummeting demand for its newest Nook tablets,
comes three days after founder and Chairman  Leonard Riggio  said
he planned to offer to buy the bookstore chain’s retail assets.
These results may speed up a sale as they offer more evidence
that the largest U.S. bookstore chain should be broken up, said
 James McQuivey , an analyst at Forrester Research.  “It’s time to move on,” McQuivey, based in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , said in an interview. The value of keeping a
technology startup like Nook within a retailer was to transfer
its customers to digital reading and acquire new ones, he said.
“It’s turning out they aren’t capturing all the Barnes & Noble
customers, and they aren’t expanding beyond them.”  Barnes & Noble gained 3.3 percent to $15.74 at the close in
 New York . The  shares  have advanced 4.3 percent this year,
compared with a 6.2 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  After the deterioration in its digital business, the
company said it will revamp the unit by cutting costs, expanding
e-book sales on other devices and redesigning hardware.  The shares are up because “people are getting more
comfortable with management’s ability to change the Nook model
to make it more viable, and that could lead to the unlocking of
value through separation,” said Peter Wahlstrom, an analyst at
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   Changed Market  The retailer released the its first Nook in late 2009 as a
way into the e-reading market that  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  was already
dominating with its Kindle. Within two years, Barnes & Noble had
claimed the second-biggest portion of the U.S. e-book market
after Amazon.  In the company’s 2012 fiscal third quarter, sales at the
Nook unit, which includes devices, accessories, tablets and e-
readers, rose 38 percent and digital content surged 85 percent.
The success of the Nook tablets helped increase sales at its
stores for the second holiday season in a row.  By the most-recent holiday season much had changed.  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  unveiled 7-inch tablets, the same size as
Barnes & Noble’s most popular Nook, joining Amazon in an
increasingly crowded and fast-growing market, McQuivey said.  Apple, Google  While the Nook tablets are well designed, they struggled
against how much the other companies could spend on advertising,
McQuivey said. The new devices also had more versatility. That
gave them an edge over the Nook, which was being pitched as a
tablet for readers.  The 7-inch tablet “in its early days was a media-optimized
device” for reading and watching movies, McQuivey said. Apple
and Google have “turned it into a Swiss Army knife” that can
replace a laptop as the consumer’s core device. “That leaves
the Nook not well-positioned.”  Barnes & Noble Chief Executive Officer William Lynch said
as much during a conference call with analysts.  “We are not going to continue what we are doing,” Lynch
said. “We had been the innovation leader in e-readers and
reading tablets” and “the market has shifted to multi-function
tablets. That’s where growth is.”  Inventory Glut  The Nook division’s revenue sank 26 percent to $316 million
in its third quarter, which includes the core holiday shopping
months of November and December, according to a statement. The
shortfall in demand forced the company to record charges from
excess inventory, returns from retail partners and discounting.
That doesn’t bode well for the unit’s future content revenue
because devices drive those sales. Sales of digital content did
rise 6.8 percent.  The rest of the  company  didn’t fare much better last
quarter as retail revenue dropped 10 percent to $1.5 billion
while its college chain posted a decline of 1.6 percent to $517
million. For the fiscal year ending in April, same-store sales
at retail will decline  by as much as “mid-single digits,”
according to the statement. At college, they will fall by “low-
single digits.”  Companywide revenue dropped 8.8 percent to $2.22 billion.
Analysts estimated $2.4 billion, the average of five estimates.  ‘Three Legs’  “You are looking at a company that has three legs under it
and all three legs are in trouble,” McQuivey said.  Even with the company projecting sales at its stores to
continue to decline, it won’t be speeding up closures. The
retailer has been shuttering an average 15 stores a year and
that will continue going forward, the company said. That’s
because more than 95 percent of stores are profitable.  The net loss in the quarter ended Jan. 26 was 18 cents a
share, compared with profit of $52 million, or 71 cents, a year
earlier. Analysts projected profit of 54 cents.  The company said in January 2012 that it would review ways
to separate the Nook unit from the rest of the company as a way
to get the market to recognize its value. Since then  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  and  Pearson Plc (PSON)  became investors in a new subsidiary,
dubbed Nook Media, that includes the digital unit and college
bookstore division.  If successful in buying the stores and website, Riggio
would leave a public company composed of a college unit that
runs bookstores for universities and the Nook division. Even
with the college division’s profit, that combination had an
operating loss of about $191 million in the three quarters
through Jan. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  