-- Bayer Sees 2013 Sales Growth on Drugs, Crop Chemicals
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-02-28T13:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/bayer-sees-2013-sales-growth-on-drugs-crop-chemicals.html
Bayer AG (BAYN)  forecast sales to rise 4
percent to 5 percent this year as it starts selling  new drugs 
and the crop chemicals unit outpaces the market.  Fourth-quarter earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation, amortization and special items increased 18
percent to 1.83 billion euros ($2.4 billion), the Leverkusen,
Germany-based company said in a statement today. That met the
1.81 billion-euro average  estimate  of 12 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Bayer signaled that it will continue to lean on its health
and crop units for growth as prices drop for the industrial
chemicals produced by its MaterialScience plastics division. The
company issued a mid-term forecast today for 2015 that relies on
five new  pharmaceutical products  to contribute more than 2.5
billion euros to sales.  “These targets aren’t unrealistically high,” Sebastian Frericks, a Frankfurt-based analyst for Bankhaus Metzler, said
of the 2015 goals. He rates Bayer’s shares buy. “It’s possible
they’ll be able to do even more. But it’s positive that they’ve
made such binding statements.”  The shares rose 2.2 percent to 75.45 euros as of 2:23 p.m.
in  Frankfurt . Bayer has returned 40 percent including re-
invested dividends in the past 12 months,  compared  with a 12
percent return from the DAX index.  Health Acquisitions  Bayer is still interested in beefing up its health-care
unit with over-the-counter or animal-health acquisitions, Chief
Financial Officer Werner Baumann said in an interview. Bayer
walked away from a $1.1 billion bid for vitamin and supplement
maker Schiff Nutrition International Inc. after a higher bid
from  Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc. (RB/)  It’s important to Bayer not to
pay away more than half of the “synergies” of any potential
deal, Baumann said.  “We are acquisitive, but we are selective in terms of the
quality of the assets,” he said.  Also of interest would be a strategically supplementary
product for its multiple sclerosis business, Baumann said. Bayer
isn’t doing its own research in MS, and its best-selling drug
last year, the injected MS medicine Betaseron, faces competition
from  Novartis AG (NOVN)  pills.  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  is in talks with
regulators on its own competing product.  “It would be extremely helpful to have another product in
the bag,” Baumann said.  Clot Injuries  Bayer said marketing new drugs will be a priority this
year. They include Xarelto, the blood thinner it sells with
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , and Stivarga, a cancer drug that won expanded
approval this week for U.S. patients with a rare type of stomach
tumor.  Sales rose 7.3 percent to 9.86 billion euros. Health-care
revenue increased 7.1 percent to 4.92 billion euros, while crop
sales rose 11 percent to 1.86 billion euros and plastics sales
rose 6.4 percent to 2.76 billion euros.  Settlements and litigation expenses linked to the
contraceptives Yaz and Yasmin cost 1.19 billion euros for the
year. More than a third of the total, 455 million euros, was set
aside in the fourth quarter to settle lawsuits over blood clot
injuries alleged to be linked to the birth-control pills, Bayer
said.  Sales of Yaz and Yasmin slipped 6.9 percent to 270 million
euros in the fourth quarter, mostly due to competition from
generics in western  Europe , Bayer said. Sales of the new blood
thinner Xarelto, meanwhile, more than quadrupled to 131 million
euros in the quarter.  For 2013, group revenue will increase to about 41 billion
euros, the company said. Analysts predicted sales of 41.5
billion euros, the average of 26 estimates.  New Drugs  Bayer predicted that health sales will rise toward 22 
billion euros by 2015 from 18.6 billion euros last year. 
Meanwhile, crop revenue should grow toward 10 billion euros by 
2015, Bayer said. The company didn’t provide a 2015 forecast for
the MaterialScience plastics unit, saying only that sales volumes
will expand faster than the economic growth rate.  Bayer said it’s planning “further efficiency measures”
for MaterialScience that should add 1.5 percentage points to the
adjusted Ebitda margin by 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Leverkusen at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  