-- Berlusconi Investigated for Corruption Tied to Italy Senator
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-02-28T15:55:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/berlusconi-investigated-for-corruption-tied-to-italy-senator-1-.html
Former Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  is under investigation in Naples on suspicion of
corruption tied to Senator Sergio De Gregorio, who  switched 
parties to join the billionaire’s supporters in parliament.  Police seized a safe used by Berlusconi and consulted
telephone records to probe “suspicion of criminal corruption
and illicit party financing,” the office of the Naples
prosecutor said today in an e-mailed statement. Berlusconi was
asked to submit to questioning, the prosecutor said.  Berlusconi, 76, is fighting criminal accusations from Milan
to Naples as he lines up his newly elected parliamentary troops
to increase his influence in  Italy ’s next government. A three-
time premier, Berlusconi won a blocking minority in Italy’s
four-way general election this week and is pushing his rivals to
cooperate on a common agenda.  Piero Longo, an Italian senator and one of Berlusconi’s
lawyers, denied the former premier broke the law.  “It is a groundless accusation,” Longo said in a
telephone interview. “No corruption took place.”  De Gregorio entered parliament in 2006 as a member of
Antonio Di Pietro’s Italian Values party and initially backed
then-Prime Minister  Romano Prodi . De Gregorio broke with Di
Pietro in September 2006 and Prodi’s government fell in January
2008.  Investigators are looking into an alleged payment of 3
million euros ($3.9 million) received by De Gregorio and tied to
his change of support, Ansa news agency reported today without
citing anyone. De Gregorio was re-elected in 2008 as a member of
Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party.  Nazzareno Di Stefano, a secretary of De Gregorio, was
unreachable by telephone and didn’t respond to a text message
seeking comment. A spokesman for the People of Liberty party in
the Senate had no comment. The Naples prosecutor’s office had no
immediate comment.  Berlusconi is appealing a tax fraud conviction in Milan and
standing trial on charges he paid a minor for sex. He has denied
all the charges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  