-- Berlusconi Boosts Demand for Bonds Down Under: Australia Credit
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-02-28T01:18:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/berlusconi-boosts-demand-for-bonds-down-under-australia-credit.html
Australian  government bonds  are
poised to snap four months of losses as  Italy ’s election
deadlock revives demand for the highest-yielding top-rated
sovereign debt.  The notes handed investors a total return of 0.8 percent
this month through yesterday, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data, ending the longest losing stretch
since December 2010.  Australia  may return its budget to  surplus 
next year, while Italy’s deficit is projected to swell to 3.4
percent, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development.  Italy’s voters handed former leader  Silvio Berlusconi  a
blocking minority in the Senate, sparking concern that turmoil
in  Europe  will undermine prospects for a global economic
recovery. Australian notes had been on course for a five-month
losing streak that would have matched a stretch in 1994 as the
longest bond rout on record in the Bank of America data. The
debt, with  benchmark yields  that are 172 basis points higher
than the average of the nine other AAA markets, also benefited
as the  Reserve Bank  said it still has room to cut rates.  “When there is a bit of a wobble globally, Australia
becomes a beneficiary again in a world where there are fewer AAA
nations,” said Su-Lin Ong, Sydney-based head of Australian
economic and fixed-income strategy at Royal Bank of  Canada .
“The general upward bias in yields has been unwound a bit
recently. What we’ve seen in the last few days is a reminder
that there is still uncertainty out there, most obviously in
Europe.”  Smaller Debt  Australia’s gross debt will comprise 27 percent of GDP this
year, according to  estimates  by the  International Monetary Fund .
Italy’s debt burden will be almost five times as much at 128
percent, projections from the Washington-based lender show.  The number of nations holding the highest score from all
three major ratings companies shrank this month as Moody’s
Investors Service stripped the U.K. of its AAA grade. Among the
eight top-rated sovereign markets that also have “stable”
outlooks from the biggest credit assessors, Australia is the
largest borrower after Canada with A$263 billion ($270 billion)
of debt outstanding.  Yield Drops  Australia’s benchmark 10-year yield fell eight basis points
this month to 3.36 percent today. It closed at 3.34 percent
yesterday, the lowest since Jan. 25. The rate climbed 46 basis
points in the four months ended Jan. 31, the longest stretch
since December 2010. Italian yields climbed 41 basis points to
4.9 percent on Feb. 26, the biggest daily increase since
December 2011.  Yields in Australia rose earlier this month as faster
growth and improving manufacturing in  China , the South Pacific
nation’s biggest trading partner, boosted the outlook for
overseas shipments.  Prices for  iron ore , Australia’s biggest export, touched
$158.90 a dry ton on Feb. 20, the highest since October 2011,
according to a gauge compiled by The Steel Index Ltd. UBS AG
said this week the key steelmaking ingredient may slump to $70 a
ton in the third quarter, which would take it to the lowest
level since 2009, as China boosts production and global supply
climbs.  RBA Stimulus  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  said Feb. 22 that “there is a
good deal of interest-rate stimulus in the pipeline” after he
and his board kept the overnight cash-rate target at 3 percent
earlier this month. While  interest-rate swaps  data compiled by
Bloomberg show expectations for policy makers to refrain from
cutting borrowing costs when they next meet on March 5, traders
see about an 80 percent chance of the rate dropping to a record
2.75 percent or lower by the June 4 decision.  The Australian dollar surged 46 percent since the end of
2008, the biggest gain among more than 150 currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, and bought $1.0261 as of 12:14 p.m. today in Sydney.  The RBA said the so-called Aussie is held the country’s
currency is held by as many as 34 central banks from Reykjavik
to Santiago, and models suggested it was as much as 15 percent
overvalued, according to papers released today under a Freedom
of Information Act request by  Bloomberg News .  The Aussie’s strength has been a drag on growth. From a
September 2011 peak to the end of 2012, there has been a 17
percent decline in the terms of trade, or the windfall that
Australia gets from its exports, the central bank estimated this
month.  Investment Falls  The statistics bureau said today  business investment 
declined 1.2 percent in the three months ended December from the
previous quarter, contrasting with economist forecasts for a 1
percent gain. Other data released in February showed an
unexpected slide in retail sales, a third monthly drop in full-
time employment and the biggest decline in 10 months in home-
loan approvals.  RBA Assistant Governor  Guy Debelle  said in a Feb. 26 speech
policy makers still “retain scope to lower  interest rates 
further, should the need arise, including to counterbalance the
pressures of an elevated  exchange rate .”  Even after 1.75 percentage points of reductions in the past
16 months, Australia’s benchmark interest rate remains the
highest among major developed economies. It compares with a
record-low 0.75 percent in the  euro zone  and near-zero rates in
the U.S. and  Japan . Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News expect
the South Pacific nation’s economy to grow 2.7 percent this
year, compared with a projected 1.1 percent rate for Group of 10
nations and a 2.4 percent pace globally.  Japan Selling  Japanese investors cut their holdings of Australian bonds
by 652.6 billion yen ($7.1 billion) over November and December,
the most in  Ministry of Finance  data going back to 2005. Some
investors are selling Australian assets as the yen stabilizes
after a four-month rout, said Hideo Shimomura, who helps oversee
the equivalent of $64.8 billion in  Tokyo  as chief fund investor
at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., a unit of Japan’s
largest publicly traded bank.  “There is a lot of selling pressure from Japan,”
Shimomura said. “People are starting to take profits. There are
outflows from our Australia funds every day.”  Japanese investors have been selling Australian assets for
about four months, he said. The Aussie was at 94.97 yen today,
after reaching a 4 1/2-year high of 97.73 yen on Feb. 25.  Risks ‘Mitigated’  Risks to Australia’s top credit rating “appear to be
largely mitigated for now,” Standard & Poor’s Associate
Director Craig Michaels said in a statement yesterday.
“Australia’s wealthy and open economy withstood the global
financial crisis better than most other developed economies, and
we expect public debt to peak at a low level before gradually
declining.”  Italian elections this month produced a hung parliament,
creating the risk of another round of balloting later this year.
European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  warned that
backsliding on budget discipline and economic reforms would
shatter market confidence in the 17-nation currency union’s
crisis management.  “Australian assets are very attractive with their AAA
credit rating and no threat of a downgrade,” said Kei Katayama,
who buys non-yen debt for Daiwa SB Investments Ltd. in Tokyo,
which manages the equivalent of $54.2 billion and is part of
Japan’s second-largest brokerage.  Daiwa SB holds more Australian bonds than the percentages
in the benchmarks it uses to gauge performance and will probably
buy more, Katayama said.  “There’s a flight to quality, and it’s a quality asset,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  