-- Billionaire Del Vecchio Says ‘Why Not’ to Grillo as Premier
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-02-28T17:26:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/billionaire-del-vecchio-says-why-not-to-grillo-as-premier.html
Billionaire Leonardo Del Vecchio,
the second-richest Italian, praised Beppe Grillo for taking a
novel approach to public policy in  Italy  and said he could
support the ex-comic as a prime minister.  “Grillo the premier, why not?” Del Vecchio told Italian
newswire Ansa today in Milan. A spokeswoman for Del Vecchio’s
 Luxottica SpA (LUX)  confirmed the comments and said the entrepreneur’s
remarks were made off the cuff after he was approached by
journalists on his way to lunch.  Grillo, 64, is at the center of negotiations over the
formation of Italy’s next government after his upstart political
party won more than 160 seats in the Feb. 24-25 general
election. Grillo, who ran on a platform of anti-austerity and
more robust social safety nets, is jockeying with established
politicians like Pier Luigi Bersani and three-time premier
 Silvio Berlusconi  for influence over the next administration.  “I don’t think Grillo is stupider than the ones we have
had up to now,” Del Vecchio told Ansa. “I don’t mind the way
he has of reasoning over ideas.”  Grillo has said he won’t accept a position in government
because a manslaughter conviction in the 1980s, according to
him, renders him unfit to serve. Grillo was convicted for his
role in a single-car accident that killed two friends and their
son. Grillo, the face of his party’s campaign, wasn’t on an
electoral list and won’t enter parliament.  Del Vecchio has a net wealth of $15.8 billion, according to
the Bloomberg Billionaire’s index, placing the Luxottica founder
48th in the world in the ranking. Milan-based Luxottica, the
world’s biggest eye-glasses maker, owns LensCrafters Inc. and
has licensing agreements for brands including  Giorgio Armani  and
 Dolce & Gabbana .  Michele Ferrero , the richest Italian, has a fortune of
$24.2 billion based on his ownership the world’s fourth-largest
chocolate maker and producer of Nutella. Berlusconi, a media
magnate, has a wealth of $6.1 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  