-- BlackRock Buys Italian Government Debt to Build Holding Back Up
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-02-28T19:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/blackrock-buys-italian-government-debt-to-build-holding-back-up.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the  money manager 
that added to its holdings of Italian  government bonds  during
the  European debt crisis , is buying more of it while holding
securities of Argentina that its government refuses to redeem.  Bonds of both countries are being scrutinized by investors
as  Italy  may face a hung Parliament after elections this week
failed to place control of the government with one party.
Argentina is contesting a court ruling that would oblige it to
pay $1.3 billion to holders of bonds the country defaulted on in
2001, including BlackRock.  “This election, it’s not done,” Rick Rieder, BlackRock’s
chief investment officer of fundamental fixed-income, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers” with  Erik Schatzker  and  Stephanie Ruhle . “We started to add a little the
other day to try and bring back some exposure.”  BlackRock, the world’s biggest fund manager with $3.79
trillion in assets, increased its stake in Italian government
debt in October 2011 when the average yield for the nation’s 10-
year notes was 5.78 percent. The yield peaked in November 2011
at 7.48 percent. Rieder said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television on April 4, 2012, when the yield was 5.37 percent,
that the firm had been paring its holdings.  Italy’s bonds advanced for a second day today amid
speculation the nation’s lawmakers will set aside differences to
form a broad coalition government after inconclusive election
results this week.  The nation’s 10-year note yields fell eight basis points,
or 0.08 percentage point, to 4.73 percent after touching 4.96
percent yesterday, the highest level since Nov. 15.  ‘Worth Holding’  With the Argentine debt, “we think it’s worth holding
on,” New York-based Rieder said. “It’s going to play out.”  Yields on Argentina’s benchmark bonds due 2017 surged 361
basis to 19.31 percent today in New York, the biggest jump on
record. That’s about four times the average borrowing costs in
 emerging markets .  Speculation is soaring that the South American country will
default for the second time since 2001 after Jonathan Blackman,
Argentina’s attorney, said it would halt payments on its
restructured debt before giving into holdouts who refused to
accept prior renegotiations. Billionaire hedge fund manager  Paul Singer ’s NML Capital Ltd., a unit of Elliott Management Corp.,
is leading the group of investors pressing Argentina to pay them
$1.33 billion for their defaulted bonds.  Rieder said the Fed’s $85 billion of monthly asset
purchases will prevent U.S. interest rates from climbing. The
 benchmark  target has been zero to 0.25 percent since 2008 to
support the economy.  “Rates will stay low for a long time,” Rieder said. “You
can’t be short because the Fed is buying it all. Every day that
nothing happens, rates tend to trend lower.” A short position
is a bet bond prices will fall.  The Fed has said it will keep buying bonds until the
 unemployment rate  falls to 6.5 percent or inflation projections
rise to 2.5 percent. The jobless rate is 7.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  