-- Bless David Einhorn for Taking the Fight to Apple
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2013-02-28T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/bless-david-einhorn-for-taking-the-fight-to-apple.html
David Einhorn, the occasionally
outspoken hedge-fund manager at Greenlight Capital, has faced
public vilification for taking on Apple Inc.’s board. Investors
and securities regulators should instead be thanking him for
upholding shareholders’ rights.  Journalists have  accused  Einhorn of  abusing  his freedom to
do things such as -- gasp! -- talking to other people about
stocks his funds own and suggesting ways to improve their
prices.  Martin Lipton, the esteemed corporate lawyer, complained on
a Harvard Law School  blog  that “one of the most successful,
long-term-visionary companies of all time is being told by a
money manager that Apple is doing things all wrong and should
focus on short-term return of cash.” Even the California Public
Employees’ Retirement System, the big public-pension fund and
self-styled authority on corporate governance,  slammed  Einhorn
while campaigning on Apple’s behalf.  Here’s what Einhorn did. He saw that one of the proposals
in Apple’s  proxy statement  forced shareholders to vote yes or no
on a bundle of unrelated issues -- a violation of the Securities
and Exchange Commission’s rules. The SEC’s staff had missed the
problem and wasn’t doing anything about it. By early February,
when Greenlight sued Apple, Einhorn’s only chance to get someone
to fix it was through the courts. So that’s where he went, at
considerable expense to his fund.  Nonsense Argument  The federal judge who heard the case, Richard Sullivan,
ruled that Greenlight was correct. It wasn’t a close call.
Apple’s “proxy materials are plainly noncompliant,” Sullivan
wrote. Apple had pointed to the SEC’s inaction as a sign it
complied with the  rules . Sullivan, rightly, slapped down the
company’s argument as nonsense.  The principle Einhorn sought to uphold is fundamental:
Shareholders should be allowed to vote on important, unrelated
issues separately. The SEC’s rules generally prohibit companies
from bundling disparate questions together in their proxy
statements. Otherwise, companies might try to win passage of
unpopular measures by combining them with proposals investors
favor. Einhorn complained about a proxy item that combined four
distinct proposals for an up-or-down vote, including one
revoking the board’s ability to unilaterally issue preferred
stock.  Before filing suit, Einhorn asked Apple to withdraw the
preferred-stock amendment or break up the proposal into separate
voting items. Apple declined. Einhorn has been pitching Apple on
a novel idea to issue  perpetual preferred shares  as a way to
boost the value of Apple’s common stock. He has estimated it
initially would result in Apple distributing $1.9 billion a year
in preferred dividends, a small amount compared with the $137
billion of cash and marketable securities on its books.  Lipton’s blog post didn’t name Einhorn, but it clearly was
referring to him. Far from telling Apple it’s doing everything
wrong, here’s what Einhorn said in a Feb. 21 slide  presentation :
“We aren’t here to offer any thoughts on their strategic plans
to operate their business -- they are the experts on that.” His
main beef is with the company’s strategy for allocating capital.
He’s far from alone in criticizing Apple for hoarding cash.  Whether you like Einhorn’s preferred-stock idea is beside
the point. (As the judge noted in his order, giving boards
unchecked authority to issue preferred shares “has been derided
by shareholder rights advocates given its potential use as an
anti-takeover tactic.”) Greenlight argued that Apple had
violated the SEC’s rules. The judge agreed and issued a
preliminary injunction barring Apple from accepting votes on the
proposal at issue.  Rules Violation  Calpers said it campaigned for the bundled proposal because
it supported a part requiring unopposed board candidates to be
elected by a  majority vote . While that surely is investor-
friendly, Calpers can’t also be for violating SEC rules and
expect to be taken seriously as a good-governance champion.  The majority-voting provision sought by Calpers almost
certainly would have passed if Apple had presented it
separately. Now, with the court’s injunction, the pension fund
will have to wait a year to try again. Calpers would have been
better off joining Einhorn and opposing Apple’s bundling from
the outset.  It would be easy to blame the SEC’s staff for dropping the
ball here. But they have a tough job. They can’t  review  every
company’s filings every year. Violations go undetected all the
time. The SEC doesn’t claim to catch everything.  That’s why Einhorn’s decision to sue is important. Few
people have the resources to make companies abide by the rules
when the authorities, for whatever reason, don’t require them
to.  The next time something like this happens, perhaps the SEC
will be more attuned to the issue and won’t let it slide. Or
maybe companies won’t be as inclined to try to pull the same
trick in the first place. The winner is the investing public.  (Jonathan Weil is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at 
 mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 