-- Boehner Restricts House Member Flights on Military Planes
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-02-28T05:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/boehner-restricts-house-member-flights-on-military-planes.html
House Speaker John Boehner plans to
restrict lawmakers’ use of military aircraft for official travel
after federal spending cuts begin tomorrow, his spokesman said.  “The speaker believes this is the prudent and responsible
course of action, and it goes above and beyond the spending cuts
the House will be implementing” as the automatic cuts take
effect, Boehner’s spokesman, Kevin Smith, said in an e-mail.  Boehner made the announcement during a closed meeting of
House Republicans yesterday, said a party leadership aide who
spoke on condition of anonymity because the session was private.
The speaker, an Ohio Republican, told lawmakers their office
budgets would be reduced and their use of military aircraft for
official travel would be curtailed, the aide said.  Congressional delegations use military aircraft for trips
to  Afghanistan  and  Iraq  or to conduct oversight in other parts
of the world where the U.S. military is engaged. All overseas
trips by congressional delegations on military aircraft require
Boehner’s approval.  Under the new policy, House members won’t be able to fly
directly from the U.S. to other countries on military aircraft,
said an Armed Services Committee aide who spoke on condition of
anonymity. Instead, they would fly on commercial airlines to an
another country, such as  Kuwait , to connect with a regularly
scheduled military aircraft, the aide said.  New Policy  Oversight trips to North Africa won’t be curtailed by the
policy, the committee aide said. Increased terrorist activity in
Libya has prompted heightened concern among lawmakers about
security in North Africa and elsewhere on the continent, such as
 Mali , where the U.S. military has provided support to French
troops that were fighting Islamic rebels.  Congressional trips typically occur when the House and
Senate are in recess. Some lawmakers make round trips to Kabul,
Afghanistan’s capital city, and the nearby Bagram Airfield, over
long weekends.  The automatic spending cuts will total $85 billion for the
remaining seven months of the fiscal year and amount to $1.2
trillion over nine years. About half would come from defense and
the rest from discretionary domestic spending.  Congress will be treated like federal agencies with cuts to
such items as committee budgets and building maintenance.
Lawmakers’ salaries won’t be affected.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  