-- BofA Hires Yacenda From Deutsche Bank as Asia-Pacific COO
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2013-02-28T08:47:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/bofa-hires-yacenda-from-deutsche-bank-as-asia-pacific-coo.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-
biggest U.S. lender, hired Richard Yacenda from Deutsche Bank AG
as chief operating officer for Asia-Pacific, according to a memo
obtained by Bloomberg News.  Yacenda will join at the end of May and be based in Hong
Kong, according to the document. Paul Scanlon, a Hong Kong-based
spokesman for Bank of America, confirmed the contents of the
memo. Yacenda had been Deutsche Bank’s deputy COO for Asia-
Pacific since 2006.  He will replace Jennifer Taylor, who was named COO of
Europe and emerging markets excluding Asia and will relocate to
London in the second quarter, the memo showed. Yacenda is the
second senior hire from Deutsche Bank in Asia after the U.S.
bank lured Loh Boon Chye as deputy president and head of global
markets for the region in October.  The bank has been stepping up hiring of senior bankers and
executives in Asia from rivals since last year, after it
promoted Matthew Koder to president of its Asian operation.  Bank of America, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, said
this month it hired Credit Suisse Group AG’s Olivier Thiriet to
run Asia cash equities. George Lin, also from the Zurich-based
bank, will join the U.S. bank and head its consumer, retail and
health-care investment banking business in Asia, people with
knowledge of the matter said this week.  Yacenda had worked for Goldman Sachs Group Inc. for 21
years, according to the memo. He joined JPMorgan Chase & Co. as
North Asia COO in October 2004.  Trisha Lawson, interim COO of Europe and  emerging markets 
excluding Asia, will return to New York to resume her role as
head of global business controls, the memo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  