-- BP’s Spill Probe Didn’t Focus on Management, Witness Says
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2013-02-28T18:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/bp-s-spill-probe-didn-t-focus-on-management-witness-says.html
BP Plc (BP/) ’s internal investigation of
the fatal explosion and  oil spill  at its  Gulf of Mexico  Macondo
well didn’t focus on whether management-system failures
contributed to the disaster, an executive testified.  Officials asked to review the 2010 explosion on the
Deepwater Horizon rig and subsequent oil spill focused on
operational issues rather than systemic safety flaws as part of
their six-month probe of the incident, Mark Bly, a BP executive
who led the investigation, told a judge in New Orleans today.  “We felt we had good results from what we’d gotten” from
operational review of miscues on the rig, Bly testified in a
trial over claims about the spill. BP executives “made the
choice not to go” further with the probe, he added.  After hearing evidence in the three-month trial, U.S.
District Judge  Carl Barbier  will decide who is liable for
damages tied to the largest offshore spill in U.S. history and
whether BP,  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  or other companies that worked on
the project were grossly negligent in their handling of the rig
and well. His ruling in the nonjury trial will affect how much
each company may have to pay.  The Deepwater Horizon explosion killed 11 rig workers and
sent more than 4 million barrels of oil spilling into the Gulf.
The accident sparked hundreds of lawsuits against London-based
BP, Vernier, Switzerland-based Transocean, owner of the rig, and
Houston-based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which handled cement work on the
well.  Corners Cut?  If well owner BP is found grossly negligent, the  company 
may be liable to the U.S. for as much as $17.6 billion in  Clean
Water Act  fines, as well as unspecified punitive damages to
claimants who weren’t part of a $8.5 billion settlement of
lawsuits. For Transocean and Halliburton, a similar finding
would mean they could face punitive damage awards.  Lawyers for the government and spill victims contend BP was
over budget and behind schedule on the deep water Macondo well
located off the  Louisiana  coast, prompting the company to cut
corners and ignore safety tests showing the well was unstable.  They also allege Halliburton’s cement job was defective and
Transocean employees made a series of missteps on the rig,
including disabling safety systems, failing to properly maintain
the installation and not adequately training its crew to handle
crisis situations.  Employee Miscues  BP sued its contractors, claiming Transocean employees’
miscues were the main cause of the explosion and that
Halliburton concealed flaws with cement work done on the
drilling project. Transocean and Halliburton countersued,
pointing the finger back at BP on liability issues.  During testimony in the case today, Bly acknowledged his
investigators didn’t interview the company’s top managers after
the blast as BP’s internal-review policies mandated. The policy
urges officials to consider “underlying system causes” for
such disaster.  Instead, the Bly investigation focused its inquiry solely
on the offshore oil rig, including actions by BP, Transocean and
Halliburton personnel on the vessel and support personnel
onshore.  Bly said upper management’s requirement that the probe be
finished as quickly as possible didn’t leave time for a thorough
review of the company’s systems and so he was granted an
“exception” to the company’s investigative policy.  Budget Cutting  The BP executive also said he wasn’t familiar with an
October 2009 memo from Kevin Lacy, one of the company’s drilling
supervisors, who warned his superiors that corporate budget
cutting had affected safety systems for such projects.  Paul Sterbcow , one of the spill victims’ lawyers said in
his questioning of Bly that Lacy was fired after he sent the
memo. Lacy testified earlier in the trial that there were
repeated “directives to cut costs” for two years prior to the
explosion of the Gulf rig.  “I was never given a directive to cut corners or deliver
something unsafe, but there was tremendous pressure to cut
costs,” he said in a video deposition. BP managers encouraged
him to cut as much as $350 million in costs in 2009 alone, he
said.  Sterbcow questioned whether BP’s agreement to have outside
officials monitor future drilling operations as part of a guilty
plea to criminal charges over the Macondo spill provided
evidence that the company’s management systems were flawed.  “Obviously, there was a terrible tragedy here, but I don’t
think it says the management system we employed here was an
absolute failure,” Bly said.  Records Withheld  During his testimony, Bly complained that BP investigators
didn’t have access to all records relevant to the explosion and
spill. For example, he said Halliburton officials never turned
over lab results on tests of the cement formula use on the
Deepwater Horizon.  BP sent e-mails to Halliburton pointing out that it was
“contractually entitled” to the tests and that the
contractor’s failure to hand the records over “continues to
impede” BP’s investigation, Bly said.  While they had access to some Transocean records, officials
of the drilling company didn’t make themselves available to BP
investigators for an interview about the steps leading up to the
explosion and spill, he added.  Bly told Barbier the company’s internal probe found BP and
Transocean officials missed red flags raised by safety tests on
the rig and maintenance issues contributed to the disaster.  For example, the rig’s emergency disconnect system had
batteries that weren’t properly charged and the installation’s
so-called blowout preventer, designed to stop explosions, also
had dead batteries and faulty wiring, the BP executive said.  Earlier Settlement  The trial, initially set to begin last March, was
rescheduled after BP reached a settlement with most individual
and other so-called private-party plaintiffs.  The settlement, which isn’t capped, excludes claims of
financial institutions, casinos, private plaintiffs in parts of
Florida and  Texas , and residents and businesses claiming harm
from the deep-water drilling moratorium.  It also didn’t cover federal government claims and Gulf
Coast states Louisiana and  Alabama , or lawsuits against
defendants. BP has said the states are claiming at least $34
billion in damages.  The U.S. government sued BP and Transocean in 2010 for
violations of the Clean Water Act and the Oil Pollution Act,
seeking fines, cleanup costs and natural-resources damages.  Guilty Plea  Last month, Transocean pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor
Clean Water Act violation and agreed to pay $1.4 billion,
including $400 million in criminal penalties. The company said
then it hadn’t settled natural-resource damages claims.  BP pleaded guilty to 14 federal charges, including 11
manslaughter charges, over the deaths of the rig workers. It
also admitted it misinterpreted a critical safety test just
before the explosion.  It agreed to pay $4 billion in fines and penalties, plus
$525 million to settle a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
claim that the company underestimated the size of the spill.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in New Orleans at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ; 
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at  allenmct@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  