-- BAT Says New ‘Safe’ Nicotine Product May Be Ready by 2014
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-02-28T16:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/british-american-tobacco-profit-rises-amid-higher-prices-1-.html
British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  said it
may sell an alternative nicotine product in the U.K. as early as
next year, as  Europe ’s largest cigarette maker moves to counter
stricter global restrictions on smoking.  The maker of Lucky Strikes is expecting approval for a new
“tobacco inhalation device” that is not an electronic
cigarette by the end of this year and it could be “ready to
launch some time in 2014, if not, 2015,” Kingsley Wheaton,
BAT’s director of corporate and regulatory affairs, said in a
telephone interview today.  BAT, which reported a 2.9 percent gain in full-year profit
after raising prices, has appointed its former Group Operations
Director Des Naughton as managing director of Next Generation
Products. The company said it plans to step up its share buyback
program in 2013.  The company has accelerated the development of alternative
nicotine products amid stricter government constraints on
smoking. In December, BAT spent about 40 million pounds ($60.6
million) on acquiring U.K.-based CN Creative Ltd., which makes
e-cigarettes and in 2010 it set up Nicoventures, the company
developing the new device. Nicoventures’ website calls the
product a “safe alternative to cigarettes.”  Investor Enthusiasm  “It’s very, very interesting that BAT has made Next
Generation Products a management board-level position, which
will add to investors’ enthusiasm,” said  Erik Bloomquist , an
analyst at Berenberg Bank in London.  While the global market for non-combustible nicotine
products, including smoking cessation patches, gum and
prescription drugs, is currently as low as about 2 billion
pounds, “I think it is going to be an important category and
that’s why we’re putting investment behind it,” BAT Chief
Executive Officer Nicandro Durante told reporters today.  “If you ask me if it’s a good opportunity down the road,
in five, ten or fifteen years, the answer is yes,” he said.  Adjusted operating profit climbed to 5.68 billion pounds in
2012 at current rates of exchange from 5.52 billion pounds the
previous year, London-based BAT said in a statement. Analysts
had anticipated earnings on that basis of 5.65 billion pounds.
While profit was hit by “adverse exchange rates,” last year,
it may benefit from “a marginal currency tailwind due to the
weakening sterling,” this year, Wheaton said.  The company has raised prices to offset falling tobacco
consumption and tighter regulation. Group volume fell 1.6
percent in the year, more than the 1.4 percent drop forecast by
the median of 9 analyst predictions in a Bloomberg survey.
Adjusted operating profit rose 8 percent on a constant-currency
basis.  Russian President Vladimir Putin on Feb. 25 signed a
package of anti-tobacco measures to curb demand in the world’s
second-largest cigarette market, while New Zealand’s government
said this month that the country will become the first after
 Australia  to require that cigarettes be sold in plain packages.  “The resilience of the business model in tough trading
conditions has been proven once again,” J.P. Morgan Cazenove
analyst Rae Maile said in a note to investors.  The shares rose 0.4 percent to 3,431 pence at 10:16 a.m. in
London. They have gained 8.2 percent in the  past year .  Share Buybacks  BAT said it plans to repurchase 1.5 billion pounds of
shares in 2013, up from 1.25 billion pounds last year.  “Our geographic diversity, powerful brands, investment in
innovations and strong positions in  emerging markets  remain key
strengths and we are confident in the future of the tobacco
business,”  Durante said in the statement. “I look forward to
2013 with optimism.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Celeste Perri in Amsterdam at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in  London  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  