-- BSkyB, News Corp. Are Said to Consider Breakaway Cycling Series
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-02-28T20:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/bskyb-news-corp-are-said-to-consider-breakaway-cycling-series.html
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ,
the U.K.’s biggest pay-TV provider, is holding talks about
becoming a partner in a new cycling championship involving most
of the teams that compete in the Tour de France, three people
familiar with the situation said.  BSkyB wants to increase its bet on cycling after
bankrolling Team Sky, whose rider Bradley Wiggins last year
became the first British winner of the Tour, the people said.
 News Corp. (NWSA) , which owns 40 percent of BSkyB, is also interested
in broadcasting the series outside the U.K., one of the people
said. The people declined to be identified because discussions
are private.  The so-called World Series Cycling project is gathering
pace as the sport’s ruling body,  Union Cycliste Internationale ,
which has opposed it for more than a year, is weakened by the
fallout from  Lance Armstrong ’s doping confession. A BSkyB
executive and attorney met with a dozen teams on Feb. 13 in
Geneva and another meeting about the project is scheduled for
today in Paris, two of the people said.  “It’s an opportunistic move: it’s probably a time when
people are in favor of a breakaway” championship, Tim Westcott,
an analyst who covers BSkyB and sports rights for media
consulting firm IHS Screen Digest, said.  BSkyB spokeswoman Alice Macandrew didn’t immediately return
a call and e-mail seeking comment on last month’s meeting with
teams. News Corp. spokeswoman Miranda Higham declined to comment
on the company’s plans for the sports-rights market.  Increased Funding  The plans are being led by two former soccer executives:
Jonathan Price, a former Manchester United sponsorship manager,
and Thomas Kurth, who oversaw a group lobbying for Real Madrid
and other European teams. Under their proposal, cycling teams
would get some 50 percent of the series’ revenue.  Currently, cycling’s TV income goes to race organizers like
the family-owned  Amaury Sport Organisation , which controls the
 Tour de France , and teams have to rely on sponsorships to
survive. Paris-based ASO isn’t part of the World Series Cycling
project at the moment, the people said.  Price didn’t return a call seeking comment on the project,
while Kurth declined to comment. ASO officials couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment.  The objections of Pat McQuaid, president of cycling’s
ruling body, slowed the project to a virtual standstill last
year, two of the people said. McQuaid said in January 2012 that
the series would threaten historic races such as the  80-year-old
Tour of Switzerland . Since then, the UCI has come under
criticism from anti-doping authorities for its handling of
affairs relating to Armstrong, including receiving a financial
donation from him.  Gathering Teams  Less fearful of retribution from the UCI, the number of
teams that agreed to race in the series has risen to 12 from
eight in recent months and three other squads are also holding
talks with Price’s Gifted Group Ltd., the people said. Czech
billionaire Zdenek Bakala, who owns the Quick-Step team that
includes the U.K. sprinter  Mark Cavendish , allied with Price’s
group in December.  Should BSkyB and News Corp. take a stake in the
championship, it would fit with their strategy of seeking more
influence on sports TV rights, partly in an effort to control
costs as spending on competitions such as English soccer’s
Premier League spirals, Westcott said. News Corp. subsidiary Fox
International Channels last year bought a controlling stake in
the Dutch soccer league’s media company. In 2011, News Corp.
made an approach to buy Formula One.  Changed Plans  Cycling will be “a whole lot” cheaper than F1 and soccer
to get involved with because it doesn’t have a global appeal,
Westcott said. In probably the biggest current broadcast deal in
cycling,  France  Television pays as little as 23 million euros
($30 million) a year to show the Tour de France among other
events owned by ASO, Westcott said. BSkyB agreed to pay 760
million pounds ($1.2 billion) a year to show Premier League
soccer, starting from the 2013-4 season.  Price and Kurth -- who had planned to hold as many as 10
new races on four continents in 2014 -- are now proposing to
stage fewer new events and incorporate established races in the
championship in an attempt to win over McQuaid, according to two
of the people.  McQuaid didn’t immediately respond to an email seeking
comment. In a Feb. 25 telephone interview, UCI management board
member Brian Cookson confirmed McQuaid was in talks with the
former soccer executives.  “They’re talking,” Cookson said. “The answer is not to
have a breakaway league but to do something that improves the
existing system and takes the sport in a new direction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in London at   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  