-- Buffett Betrayed by Calls Shows Nobody Safe From Leaks
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-02-28T17:05:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/buffett-betrayed-by-calls-shows-nobody-safe-from-leaks.html
The surge in H.J. Heinz Co. options
before  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s $23 billion takeover bid shows
that even the world’s most successful investor isn’t immune to
leaks.  Federal authorities began a criminal probe after almost
2,600 Heinz June $65 call options changed hands on Feb. 13,
compared with 14 the day before, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It was the second instance in two years of well-timed
trading before billionaire  Warren Buffett ’s company announced an
acquisition. In March 2011, call volume in Lubrizol Corp.
climbed to 12 times more than puts days before Berkshire offered
to buy the world’s largest producer of lubricant additives.  While Buffett is under no suspicion, the government suit
shows it’s getting harder to keep secrets in mergers and
acquisitions, according to Robert Pavlik, chief market
strategist at Banyan Partners LLC, which oversees $1.4 billion.
Regulators have probed at least a dozen cases of options trading
before events such as takeover announcements since 2007,
including  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s purchase of MedImmune Inc. and  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s bid for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “People are looking for whatever edge they can get, which
includes trying to game the system,” Pavlik said in a Feb. 22
phone interview from New York. “With these kinds of big deals
there are a lot of participants, and anyone with access to
information has friends and family who may engage in nefarious
activity simply based on an off-the-cuff remark.”  Insider Trading  Buffett didn’t return an e-mailed request for comment sent
to an assistant. Neither he nor his company has been linked to
the Heinz trades. U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
spokesman  John Nester  didn’t respond to an e-mailed list of
questions.  The SEC filed 58 new actions related to insider trading in
2012, up from 37 in 2009, and the second-highest number since at
least 2003, according to the agency’s  data .  “It’s almost uncommon to not see irregular option trading
just before a takeover,” Ophir Gottlieb, managing director at
San Francisco-based Livevol Inc., a provider of options-market
analytics, said Feb. 19. “I am at the point now where I am
surprised if I don’t see what seems to be an improprietous use
of insider information.”  Suspicious Trades  A U.S. judge last week froze a Swiss account that the SEC
said was used to carry out the Heinz trades after its holders
failed to appear at a hearing in Manhattan. The defendants,
using a  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  account, bought almost $90,000
of options the day before Buffett and 3G Capital Inc. announced
the takeover, the SEC said. The holdings increased to more than
$1.8 million, or almost 2,000 percent.  The timing and size of the trades drew attention because
the accounts through which they were bought had no history with
Heinz securities in the last six months, according to the SEC.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation is working with the
commission on a criminal probe of trading “anomalies” before
the announcement, Peter Donald, a spokesman for the agency’s New
York office, said last week.  Call trading in Lubrizol surged to the highest level in a
year on March 9, 2011, five days before Berkshire said it would
buy the lubricant maker. Less than three months before the deal,
Berkshire executive David Sokol bought about $10 million of
Lubrizol stock while representing Berkshire in takeover
discussions. Sokol resigned in 2011 after Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire said he broke company regulations.  ‘Complete Confidentiality’  No investigation of the options transactions was disclosed
publicly by the SEC. Sokol, considered by Buffett biographer
Andrew Kilpatrick as the top candidate to succeed him as chief
executive officer, won’t face enforcement actions from the SEC,
his lawyer said last month as regulators concluded their
investigation. Barry Levine, a lawyer for Sokol, didn’t return a
phone message and e-mail seeking comment.  In Berkshire’s 2011 annual report, Buffett, 82, promised
“complete confidentiality” to sellers of businesses who
interact with his firm.  Buffett has emphasized integrity at Berkshire, telling top
managers in periodic letters that it’s more important to guard
the company’s reputation than to make money. The billionaire’s
acquisitions have built Berkshire into a company valued at
almost $250 billion with more than 70 operating  units  that
insure against natural disasters, haul freight, generate
electricity, make chemicals and sell products from running shoes
to chocolate.  SEC Charges  The SEC has brought charges against investors for trading
in  Zhongpin Inc. (HOGS)  and  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  before deals in the past year.  Six Chinese citizens and Prestige Trade Investments Ltd.,
one of Zhongpin’s biggest shareholders, made more than $9.2
million in profits on “eerily well-timed” purchases of calls
and stock in Zhongpin before the company’s chairman proposed
taking the Nasdaq-listed company private, according to a court
filing by the SEC in April. U.S. regulators are still
investigating the case.  Volume in bullish Nexen options reached the highest level
since 2008 in July, days before  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  offered to buy the
Calgary-based energy company. The SEC won a $14 million
settlement from Hong Kong-based Well Advantage Ltd. after an
investigation into $7 million of profit made from stock trades
ahead of Cnooc’s proposal.  MedImmune, Potash  Bullish MedImmune options volume jumped to the highest in
at least 11 1/2 years during the two days in April 2007 before
the pharmaceutical company hired advisers to explore a possible
sale. The SEC brought charges against Stephen Goldfield, a hedge
fund manager, and James Self Jr., an executive at another drug
company. They agreed to settle the case in 2010, paying
penalties while not admitting or denying wrongdoing.  In 2010, the SEC accused Juan Jose Fernandez Garcia of
Banco Santander SA and Luis Sanchez for illegally reaping almost
$1.1 million through the use of more than $61,000 in Potash
stock options before BHP Billiton’s takeover bid for the
fertilizer producer. A federal judge later dismissed the claim
against Sanchez, a Madrid-based investor. Fernandez Garcia, who
settled the case by paying more than $625,000, headed the
European equity-derivatives division at Santander, which advised
BHP Billiton. He neither admitted nor denied wrongdoing.  Options trading often surges for legitimate reasons, such
as when a trader speculates on an event, according to David Kass, a professor at the University of  Maryland ’s Robert H.
Smith School of Business.  ‘Highly Leveraged’  “It’s highly leveraged, so a small amount of money can
give you a very high percentage rate of return,” Kass said in a
Feb. 19 phone interview from College Park, Maryland. “Volume
activity in options can pick up on rumors and speculation.
Sometimes those rumors turn out to be true and sometimes not.”  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, known
as the  VIX (VIX) , slipped 0.1 percent to 14.72 at 12:01 p.m. in New
York today.  Europe ’s VStoxx Index, a measure of Euro Stoxx 50
Index option prices, fell 4.5 percent to 21.  In the Heinz case, unusual positioning was visible in
November, said Gareth Ryan, the managing director of London-
based IUR Capital Ltd., which specializes in options strategies.  Investors probably bought January 2014 $60 calls and
January 2014 $65 calls, while selling January 2014 $75 calls,
establishing a spread strategy for a total cost of $1.35 to $5,
according to Ryan. Between 13,000 and 15,000 options were
traded, he estimated.  Stealth Trading  In a hypothetical case of a trader buying an equal number
of the $60 and $65 calls while selling the same number of $75
options, the value of the holdings would have jumped to $20.10
at the close on Feb. 14, or four times more than the maximum $5
spent in November. With 5,000 contracts for each leg, the trade
would have surged to almost $10.1 million from $2.5 million, or
a $7.6 million profit.  A spread allows investors to reduce costs. At the same
time, such positioning may go unnoticed, and using options
expiring in January 2014 enabled a trade that would profit any
time through next year, according to Ryan.  “If you want to be a little more subtle about it and
reduce your risk, then that’s when you do a spread,” Ryan said
in a Feb. 22 phone interview. “He may have known something may
have been happening, but he didn’t know when. That’s someone who
really knows how to hide his objectives.”  The Heinz case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
v. Certain Unknown Traders in Securities of H.J. Heinz Co.,
1:13-cv-01080-JSR, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  