-- Buffett Outlining Dividend Plan May Ease Successor’s Path
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-02-28T21:14:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/buffett-outlining-dividend-plan-may-ease-successor-s-path.html
Warren Buffett  once said that
shunning dividends in his early years running  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  allowed him to refocus the company on better businesses,
much as a person would overcome “a misspent youth.”  The 82-year-old billionaire is now focused on his legacy as
he prepares the company he’s overseen for almost five decades
for new management. Using his annual letter tomorrow to outline
a dividend strategy could help explain to shareholders how the
company’s next leaders should approach the challenge of
allocating profits.  “It may ease the burden on the successors” if they are
able to initiate a dividend, said Richard Cook, co-manager of
the  Cook & Bynum Fund (COBYX) , which counts Berkshire among its  largest
holdings . Berkshire and its units “generate a lot of cash.”  Buffett has sought to teach shareholders about business,
investing and corporate governance through the  annual letters 
and meetings held in Omaha,  Nebraska , where Berkshire is based.
As the company grew with investment gains and  acquisitions , so
did its  cash pile , which reached $47.8 billion at the end of
September. That’s made the task of allocating the funds more
difficult, because it’s hard to find worthwhile, large
investments, Buffett has said.  The chairman and chief executive officer began buying back
shares in 2011 and devoted part of his letter last year to
explaining when repurchases make sense. He told CNBC in May that
he would probably discuss what makes a logical dividend policy
in this year’s letter.  Buffett’s Blessing  “It’s a very sensible move” to describe when companies
should pay a dividend, so that the next CEO will be seen as
having Buffett’s blessing, said Tom Russo, a partner at Gardner
Russo & Gardner, who oversees more than $5 billion, including
Berkshire shares. After Buffett’s gone, there will be “a
tendency to second-guess,” Russo said.  Buffett took over Berkshire in 1965 and  transformed  it from
a maker of textiles and men’s suit linings into a $251 billion
company that sells insurance, hauls freight, generates
electricity and operates dozens of manufacturing and retail
businesses. His track record and opinions have made his letters
a must-read on  Wall Street .  He said in the  1985 letter  that dividends make sense only
when managers can’t generate adequate returns by keeping money
in the business. Berkshire didn’t pay a dividend because it had
been able to earn above-market rates on retained profits, he
said at the time.  Disaster Averted  Returning a significant amount of that money to investors
might have been “disastrous,” Buffett wrote, because the three
businesses that he and Vice Chairman Charles Munger oversaw when
they started had made little money, incurred losses or shrank to
a fraction of their original size two decades later.  “It’s been like overcoming a misspent youth,” Buffett
said of their effort to expand into the  insurance industry ,
newspaper publishing and chocolate-making. “Clearly,
diversification has served us well.”  Buffett has continued to find better ways of investing
Berkshire’s extra cash. During the last three decades, he’s
amassed the  biggest stakes  in companies including  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) 
He’s also bought whole companies, including railroad Burlington
Northern  Santa Fe  and reinsurer  General Re .  This month, he joined  Jorge Paulo Lemann ’s 3G Capital in a
$23 billion deal to take ketchup maker  HJ Heinz Co. (HNZ)  private. The
transaction will give Berkshire $4.1 billion in equity and $8
billion in preferred stock that pays a 9 percent dividend,
according to a regulatory filing.  Munger’s Wish  Buffett uses his letters to call out his own blunders and
praise managers at operating units such as reinsurance chief
Ajit Jain and  Matt Rose , the CEO of BNSF. The billionaire relies
on the heads of subsidiaries to oversee day-to-day operations,
leaving him and Munger time to allocate the profits.  Berkshire’s size could make a dividend necessary at some
point because there may be no better way to invest the funds,
Munger said at a 2011 meeting in  Pasadena ,  California .  “I think that some of you will live to see Berkshire pay a
dividend, but I hope I don’t,” Munger, then 87, said in
response to an audience member’s question. “You’re saying, ‘Do
you predict failure?’ And I suppose I do.”  Buffett said in last year’s letter that the board had
selected a manager to be the next CEO, without identifying the
person. The billionaire has also been ceding more oversight of
the company’s $88 billion stock portfolio to investment managers
Todd Combs and Ted Weschler.  Stock Rally  Berkshire Class A shares gained 0.5 percent to $152,600, a
record closing price, at 4:03 p.m. in  New York . The company has
rallied 29 percent in the last 12 months, fueled by gains at
operating units, a stock buyback and an investment in Bank of
America Corp. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 10 percent
in the period.  One deterrent to paying a dividend now is that Buffett, as
Berkshire’s largest shareholder, would have to do something with
the payments, Russo said. While the billionaire has pledged
almost all his wealth to charity, he still oversees Berkshire
stock worth more than  $50 billion .  “Warren doesn’t want the cash,” said Russo. “He doesn’t
need it. He doesn’t want the burden of investing it.”  A dividend may make sense once Buffett’s no longer leading
the firm and more of his shares pass to the  Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation  and his children’s philanthropies, said Russo. Those
organizations have an obligation to spend money that a dividend
could generate, he said.  Cook, the mutual-fund manager, said he’d prefer that
Berkshire forgo a dividend and keep the cash for now.  “You’ve got a 50-year track record of being the best
capital allocator in the world,” he said of Buffett. “As long
as he’s alive, we think we’re generally better off with him”
overseeing the money.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  