-- Bulgarian President Sets Early Elections for May 12
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-02-28T15:11:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/bulgarian-president-plevneliev-sets-early-elections-for-may-12.html
 Bulgarian President Rosen Plevneliev called early elections for May 12 after Prime
Minister Boyko Borissov’s Cabinet resigned amid protests against
high energy prices and poverty that turned violent.  Bulgaria  needs a new Parliament with much higher confidence
and credibility than the current one, Plevneliev said in a
speech to lawmakers in Sofia today. He will make one more
attempt on March 5 to find a party willing to cobble together a
government before dissolving Parliament and appointing a
caretaker administration by the end of next week.  Bulgaria is mired in turbulence after anti-austerity
protests that have sunk prime ministers across  Europe  forced out
Borissov, a former bodyguard elected on an anti-corruption
platform in 2009. His government focused on budget cuts to ward
off bailouts and turbulent bond markets, boosting unemployment
to the highest in eight years.  “Our compatriots want simple things, to be governed by
decent people, not to be robbed and to live well,” Plevneliev
said. “They are protesting against unfulfilled promises and
inefficient institutions. We created the problems, we have to
resolve them. The sooner, the better. We are all in the same
boat, the protesters, the politicians and the state.”  Street Protests  Bulgaria is in its third week of protests against poverty,
demanding nationalization and change of the political system.
Doctors and medical workers across the country will join the
protests later today, after the money allocated to hospitals by
the state-run National Health Fund for the half year, ended in
the first two months.  The ethnic Turk Movement for Rights and Freedoms is the
third-biggest party that will be asked to form a government on
March 5, after the ruling Gerb party and the Socialists rejected
the offer. The Movement said on Feb. 26 they’ll also refuse. The
meeting was postponed from tomorrow, the President’s office said
in an e-mailed statement today.  Plevneliev rejected calls for nationalization of power
distributors run by  CEZ AS (CEZ) , the biggest Czech utility,  Austria ’s
 EVN AG (EVN)  and Prague-based Energo-Pro, saying it will “scare away
investors, cause chaos, fuel unemployment and poverty.”  Power prices will be cut next month after Parliament
amended the Energy Law yesterday that allows the regulator to
change power prices more frequently than once a year as
previously. he said. Pensions will be raised starting April 1 as
was planned in this year’s budget, Plevneliev said.  Perception ‘Disconnect’  “Bulgaria bears little resemblance to its crisis-stricken
southern European peers,”  Nicholas Spiro , managing director of
Spiro Sovereign Strategy Ltd. in  London , said in an e-mailed
note today. “From a  debt market  and fiscal fundamentals
perspective, Bulgaria stands out as the strongest European
sovereign whose government has collapsed because of anti-
austerity protests. There’s somewhat of a disconnect between
Bulgaria’s credit story and the political situation.”  The cost of insuring the country’s debt with credit-default
swaps rose 0.24 percent to 135.9 at 3:45 p.m. in Sofia today,
after rising 2.8 percent on Feb. 26, the highest intraday level
since Oct. 11, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The swaps, which rise as perceptions of creditworthiness
worsen, pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should an issuer fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  Excessive Austerity  Excessive austerity brought down Bulgaria’s Cabinet,
 Nouriel Roubini , the  New York  University professor who predicted
the 2008 global financial crisis, said in a Feb. 26 interview.  Borissov’s government was forced to freeze wages and delay
value-added-tax reimbursements to businesses to narrow a
widening budget deficit and stave off the impact of the euro-
area debt crisis.  Government debt was 18.7 percent of GDP at the end of the
third quarter, the EU’s second-lowest behind  Estonia , compared
with the 27-nation bloc’s average of 85.1 percent, according to
Eurostat. The government wants to keep this year’s budget
deficit at 1.3 percent of GDP, the same level as last year.  The fall of the Cabinet will fuel spending before elections
and have “negative implications for fiscal consolidation,”
Moody’s Investors Service said on Feb. 25.  The lack of a fully functioning government “creates
uncertainty about policy direction,”damages “investor and
 consumer confidence ” and undermines “the 2013 outlook for an
already weak economy,” Moody’s said.  The benchmark Sofix stock index rose 2 percent to 380.9 at
3:54 p.m. in Sofia, after it plunged 4.4 percent Feb. 26, its
biggest drop since Feb. 2, 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The yield on Eurobonds maturing in July 2017 fell one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.1831 percent. The yield
rose 19 basis points on Feb. 26 to the highest this year.  Borissov, who was hospitalized on Feb. 26 for treatment of
high  blood pressure , was released today, BTA news wire reported,
citing the facility’s director, Lyubomir Spasov.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  