-- Business Activity in U.S. Unexpectedly Picked Up in February
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2013-02-28T15:25:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/business-activity-in-u-s-unexpectedly-picked-up-in-february.html
Business activity in the U.S.
unexpectedly expanded in February at the fastest pace in almost
a year, a sign the manufacturing industry is poised for growth.  The MNI Chicago Report business  barometer  rose to 56.8, the
highest level since March, after a reading of 55.6 in January.
Numbers greater than 50 signal expansion. The median forecast of
51 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 54.  Manufacturing, which makes up about 12 percent of the  U.S.
economy , is regaining its footing after slipping in mid 2012 as
overseas markets heal, companies spend more on equipment and
automobile sales improve. Strength in the factory sector
indicates producers are still seeing demand even amid higher
taxes on consumers and signs that lawmakers in Washington won’t
come to agreement on a budget deal.  “Things are pretty positive for manufacturing,” said
 Brian Jones , a senior U.S. economist at  Societe Generale  in New
York, who forecast the index would climb to 57. “Businesses
feel much more comfortable about spending money, and also we had
very little inventory building in manufacturing in the fourth
quarter, so people have to rebuild stocks.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from 52.2 to 58.
The index average 54.6 in 2012 and 62.8 in 2011.  Other reports today showed the economy eked out a gain in
the fourth quarter and claims for jobless benefits dropped more
than forecast last week.  Confidence Improves  Confidence among consumers improved last week to the
highest level this year as the housing recovery and recent gains
in stocks removed some of the sting from higher payroll taxes,
other figures also showed today. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort
Index climbed for a fourth straight week, reaching minus 32.8 in
the period ended Feb. 24 from minus 33.4 in the prior period.
The share of Americans with a positive view of the world’s
largest economy matched the highest since March 2008.  Stocks held earlier gains after the reports. The  Standard &
Poor’s  500 index climbed 0.2 percent to 1,518.79 at 10:24 a.m.
in New York.  The Chicago group’s gauge of new orders climbed to 60.2 in
February, also the highest in almost a year, from 58.2 in
January. A measure of employment decreased to 55.7 from 58, a
seven-month high. The production index was little changed,
easing to 60.2 from 60.9 in January, a 10-month high, today’s
report showed.  Economists monitor the Chicago index and other regional
reports for an early reading on the national manufacturing
outlook. The Chicago group includes goods producers and service
providers with operations in the U.S. and abroad, making the
gauge a measure of overall growth.  Regional Surveys  The Federal Reserve Bank of  New York ’s general economic
 index  showed manufacturing in the New York, northern  New Jersey 
and southern Connecticut area unexpectedly expanded in February,
a sign producers are emerging from a slump that begin in August.
At the same time, the Federal Bank of Philadelphia’s index
unexpectedly contracted for a second month.  Yesterday, a report showed orders for U.S. durable goods
excluding transportation equipment climbed in January by the
most in a year, indicating companies plan to expand capacity as
they look beyond the budget impasse in Washington. Because
Congress hasn’t compromised on deficit reduction plans, about
$1.2 trillion in spending reductions over the next decade are
scheduled to start taking effect tomorrow.  Businesses, nonetheless, are poised to keep investing in
equipment. The durable goods report yesterday showed orders of
capital good, excluding defense and aircraft, have climbed 9.5
percent since October, the biggest three-month gain since 1993.
A global economy that is regaining its footing should support
American producers as well.  Growth Pickup  “We’re enthusiastic about the reports we’re getting from
our customers that lead us to expect stronger market conditions
in the second half of 2013,” Chuck Cargile, chief financial
officer of laser manufacturer  Newport Corp. (NEWP) , said during a Feb.
20 earnings call. ‘In the near term, our outlook continues to be
cautious because the expectations of a stronger second half of
2013 are not yet reflected in our orders or our backlog.”  One other driver for industrial production, cars and light
trucks  sold  at a 15.2 million annual rate last month after 15.3
million in December, according to Ward’s Automotive Group.
Including November’s 15.5 million rate, car sales in the past
three months have been the strongest in five years.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory  index  for
February, due tomorrow, will probably show expansion for the
third month, according to the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  