-- Cablevision Declines as Sandy Costs Leads to Quarterly Loss
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-02-28T21:51:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/cablevision-posts-quarterly-loss-as-superstorm-sandy-takes-toll.html
Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , the
fifth-largest U.S. cable provider by subscribers, dropped the
most in a year after Superstorm Sandy’s devastation led to a
fourth-quarter operating loss.  The net loss from continuing operations was $83.7 million,
or 32 cents a share, compared with a profit of $60.5 million, or
22 cents, a year earlier, the company said today in a statement.
Sales fell 1.6 percent to $1.66 billion, missing the $1.7
billion average of analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “The enormous challenges of Superstorm Sandy had a strong
negative impact on our fourth-quarter results,” Chief Executive
Officer  James Dolan  said in the statement.  Sandy, which knocked out power to almost 2 million
customers, added $111 million in costs in the period. While the
storm didn’t affect  capital expenditures , it pushed back
“initiatives” including improving Internet speeds, by about
two months, Dolan said on a conference call.  Cablevision’s shares  fell 9.6 percent to $13.99 at the
close in  New York , the biggest decline since Feb. 28, 2012. The
stock has dropped 6.4 percent this year, as the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index has gained 6.2 percent.  Cablevision lost 50,000 video customers, 5,000 high-speed
Internet subscribers and 10,000 voice customers -- all of which
were worse than analysts had predicted. It’s the first time
Cablevision has ever reported a loss of Internet customers in a
quarter. Some of the losses were customers located in areas
damaged by Sandy who Cablevision stopped billing and has been
unable to contact.  Optimum West  Cablevision serves about 3 million customers in New York,
 New Jersey ,  Connecticut  and parts of  Pennsylvania . The cable
provider agreed to sell its Optimum West division for $1.63
billion to  Charter Communications Inc. (CHTR)  earlier this month, a
move that will shed the company’s operations in Western states.  Selling Optimum West “removes a high growth asset,”
Jayant, who is based in New York, said in an interview. The
question now is whether Cablevision can keep increasing earnings
at a time when programming costs are rising and subscribers are
shrinking, he said.  Programming costs are set to rise by about 12 percent in
2013, Chief Financial Officer Gregg Seibert said on a conference
call. The expense increase will contribute to adjusted operating
cash-flow “pressure” in the first quarter, Seibert said.  “We continue to consider and implement changes to our
pricing as appropriate,” he said.  Cablevision announced in December that it was raising
prices on its Internet subscribers by $5 a month, the first
increase on broadband users in a decade. The Bethpage,  New York- 
based company also announced this month it will begin charging
customers an additional $2.98 a month to pay for the rising cost
of sports programming.  The company didn’t buy back any shares in the fourth
quarter as it assessed Sandy’s costs and doesn’t anticipate
repurchasing any in the first quarter of 2013, Seibert said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  