-- Cablevision Disappoints Investors in Quarterly Ritual
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-03-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/cablevision-disappoints-investors-in-quarterly-ritual.html
Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  is making
a habit of disappointing investors with its earnings results.  The fifth-largest U.S. cable company’s latest earnings sent
the stock plunging 9.6 percent yesterday. Cablevision shares
have dropped or been unchanged on earnings days for nine
straight quarters and 11 out of the past 12 -- a far worse
performance than its peers.  How does Cablevision so consistently dash investors’ hopes?
One big factor is management’s lack of clarity in communications
with shareholders,  Jason Armstrong , an analyst at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., said in an interview. While competitors such as
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ,  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  and  DirecTV (DTV)  use investor
conferences to keep the market informed of developments between
quarters, Cablevision doesn’t participate as frequently and
reveals less information, he said.  “Analysts and investors will catch on to what other
companies say at conferences and reset their estimates,”
Armstrong said. “With Cablevision, you don’t have as much of
that, so you’re vulnerable to the quarterly surprise.”  Kelly McAndrew, a spokeswoman for Bethpage, New York-based
Cablevision, declined to comment on the company’s communication
with investors.  Yesterday, it was the magnitude of customer losses after
Superstorm Sandy that surprised investors. Cablevision  fell 
$1.48 to $13.99 at the close in New York, the biggest one-day
drop since the company released its fourth-quarter earnings
exactly one year ago.  Unpredictable Element  In other quarters, sudden shifts in strategy have been the
unpredictable element for investors, said  Paul Sweeney , an
analyst at Bloomberg Industries. Moves such as buying Newsday
for about $630 million in 2008 or acquiring Bresnan
Communications LLC in 2010 -- only to announce it was selling it
after just two years of ownership -- have been difficult to
anticipate, Sweeney said.  “You never know what you’re going to get with
Cablevision,” Sweeney said in an interview. “You don’t know
what you’re going to hear on the conference calls.”  The shares do tend to recover after earnings selloffs. Even
after the repeated plunges, Cablevision rose 5.1 percent in
2012.  Cablevision’s quarterly egg-laying streak is unmatched in
the U.S. pay-TV industry. Comcast shares have  gone up  after
eight of its past 10 quarterly earnings reports. Time Warner
Cable shares have  climbed  in five of the last 10 quarters.  Chief Executive Officer  James Dolan  has a  better record 
with  Madison Square Garden Co. (MSG) , the sports and entertainment
company that his family controls. It’s had eight consecutive
quarters of gains on earnings days. MSG is led by Chief
Executive Officer Hank Ratner.  Customer Losses  In the fourth quarter, Cablevision lost 50,000 video
customers, 5,000 high-speed Internet subscribers and 10,000
voice customers -- all of which were worse than analysts had
predicted. It was the first time Cablevision had ever reported a
quarterly loss of Internet customers.  Cablevision stopped billing some users in areas damaged by
Sandy and has been unable to contact them, contributing to the
subscriber declines, the company said. It hadn’t signaled
publicly before yesterday that it expected so many losses.
Cablevision serves about 3 million customers in New York,  New
Jersey , Connecticut and parts of Pennsylvania.  Cablevision’s recent  capital-expenditure  increases have
also diminished the rate of the company’s share buybacks
compared with peers, Armstrong said. Investors have been waiting
for spending to decrease, and it hasn’t happened yet, he said.  Straight Shot  Chief Financial Officer Gregg Seibert said yesterday during
a conference call that the company won’t buy back any stock in
the first quarter of 2013 and  capital expenditures  will remain
“elevated” for the year.  Capital spending  rose 32 percent last
year to $1.08 billion. The company didn’t repurchase shares in
the fourth quarter, compared with $67.4 million in buybacks a
year earlier.  Cablevision’s close-to-the-vest style stems from its roots
as a family-owned company. Dolan, the 57-year-old son of founder
Charles Dolan, took the CEO job in 1995. In addition to running
Cablevision, he is executive chairman of MSG, which includes
overseeing management of the  National Basketball Association ’s
 New York Knicks  and National Hockey League’s  New York Rangers .
He’s also the frontman in a band,  JD & The Straight Shot .  “You only get to hear from Dolan four times a year,”
Sweeney said. “Therefore you’re more apt to get volatility
around when he does speak.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  