-- Canada Fourth Quarter Current Account Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-02-28T13:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/canada-fourth-quarter-current-account-report-text-.html
Following is the text of Canada’s
current account report for the fourth quarter released by
 Statistics Canada .  Canada’s current account deficit (on a seasonally adjusted
basis) decreased $0.8 billion to $17.3 billion in the fourth
quarter. The reduction to the goods deficit was partially offset
by the increase of the investment income deficit.  In the financial account (unadjusted for seasonal
variation), transactions in loans and deposits accounted for
most of the inflows in the quarter, as inward and outward
transactions in both securities and direct investment were
largely offsetting. This contrasted with the general trend
observed since 2009, where net inflows in the form of securities
have been the main contributor to the financing of the ongoing
current account deficit.  Current account  Deficit on trade in goods narrows  The deficit on trade in goods was reduced by $2.3 billion
in the fourth quarter to $2.8 billion. This largely reflected
increased exports, led by energy products and by farm, fishing
and intermediate food products. The goods surplus with the
 United States  was up $2.0 billion on stronger exports in the
fourth quarter, although for the year 2012, it was reduced by
$6.8 billion to $42.1 billion. The deficit on goods with all
other countries reached a record of $54.0 billion in 2012, up
$6.0 billion from 2011.  Total exports of goods were up $1.7 billion to $114.5
billion in the fourth quarter. Energy products accounted for
$1.6 billion of this increase, led by higher prices as volumes
were down. However, the crude petroleum portion of energy
reflected both higher prices and volumes. Higher export volumes
of canola and of other crop products contributed to the $1.1
billion increase for farm, fishing and intermediate food
products. Increases were moderated by a reduction in the exports
of metal ores and non-metallic minerals, mainly on lower volumes.  Total imports were down $0.6 billion to $117.3 billion in
the fourth quarter. Volumes were down for several major
categories of goods, leading to reductions in imports of
industrial machinery (-$0.5 billion) and motor vehicles (-$0.4
billion). Chemicals products and forestry products were also
down. These import reductions were partially offset by higher
imports of energy products, which increased $0.7 billion through
stronger prices and volumes, as well as by higher volumes of
aircraft and other transportation equipment (+$0.4 billion).  Trade in services deficit edges down  The deficit on trade in services was reduced by $0.1
billion in the fourth quarter from a high of $6.2 billion the
previous quarter. For the year 2012, the deficit in trade in
services reached a new high at $24.6 billion, mostly on the
travel account.  Commercial services and travel accounted for the majority
of changes in the fourth quarter. The surplus on commercial
services edged up $0.1 billion, as imports weakened in the
fourth quarter. Increased spending by Canadians on visits to the
United States was partially offset by larger spending by
overseas travellers coming to  Canada . This resulted in a slight
increase in the deficit on international travel to $4.6 billion.  Investment income deficit expands  The deficit on investment income advanced $1.8 billion in
the fourth quarter to $6.9 billion. This mainly reflected
increased earnings of non-residents on their foreign direct
investment in Canada, which advanced $1.9 billion on higher
dividend payments. On the other side of the ledger, earnings on
Canadian direct investment abroad were up $0.3 billion. Higher
interest paid to foreign holders of Canadian bonds pushed the
deficit on portfolio investment income up a further $0.2 billion.  Financial account  Foreign portfolio investors continue to acquire Canadian debt
securities but divest of equities  Foreign investors added $16.3 billion of Canadian
securities to their holdings in the fourth quarter, half the
level of the previous quarter. Acquisitions of Canadian debt
securities remained robust at $22.4 billion, but were partly
offset by a sizable decline in foreign portfolio holdings of
Canadian equities.  Non-resident investors increased their holdings of federal
debt instruments by $12.4 billion in the fourth quarter, adding
both short and long-term instruments. Retirements and coupon
payments in December moderated the inflows. Foreign holdings of
private corporate debt securities were up by $13.3 billion, on
the strength of net new issues of bonds. This closed another
year of strong foreign investment in Canadian debt securities as
non-residents added $82.2 billion worth to their holdings, with
federal bonds accounting for nearly 40% of these transactions.  Foreign portfolio investors reduced their holdings of
Canadian equities by $6.1 billion in the fourth quarter, the
largest divestment since the fourth quarter of 2007. This was
related to cross-border mergers and acquisitions activity, with
non-resident portfolio investors rendering their Canadian shares
to foreign direct investors. Foreign purchases of Canadian
stocks on the secondary market slowed to $0.7 billion. Canadian
stock prices were up by 0.9% in the fourth quarter, following a
6.2% increase in the third quarter.  Canadian investment in foreign securities increases further  Canadian investors acquired $17.0 billion of foreign
securities in the fourth quarter, the largest investment since
the second quarter of 2007, just before the onset of the global
credit crisis. Over three-quarters of this activity was in
foreign bonds, mainly US government instruments. This was
partially offset by retirements of maple bonds.  Canadian investment in foreign stock markets slowed to $4.7
billion, marking an eighth straight quarter of investment.
Acquisitions were led by US stocks. On an annual basis,
Canadians acquired the largest amount of foreign securities in
five years, as they increased their holdings of bonds for the
first time during this period. As of the third quarter of 2012,
nearly 80% of Canadian holdings of foreign securities were in
equity.  Inward direct investment led by mergers and acquisitions  Foreign direct investment in Canada was $14.9 billion in
the fourth quarter, up from $8.0 billion in the third quarter.
Inflows reflected strong merger and acquisition transactions,
the largest such activity since the second quarter of 2011.
Foreign direct investors from  Europe  accounted for most of the
investment in the country.  Outward direct investment moderates, but remains strong  Funds sent abroad by Canadian direct investors eased to
$16.8 billion, following a strong third quarter. Outflows
related to mergers and acquisitions were reduced to $4.4 billion
from $10.7 billion in the third quarter. Outside of mergers and
acquisitions, the energy and mining sector was also lower.
Nevertheless, Canadian direct investment abroad has exceeded
foreign direct investment in Canada for a fifth straight year in
2012.  Transactions in loans and deposits generate inflows of funds  Transactions in the other investment category of the
financial account generated a net inflow of $17.3 billion in the
fourth quarter. This was the second straight quarter of
expansion in Canadian deposit liabilities at $26.5 billion,
mostly reflecting an increase in foreign currency deposits held
by non-residents. As well, loans to non-residents through
reverse repurchase agreement transactions led to a reduction on
the asset side in the fourth quarter.  Note to readers  The balance of international payments covers all economic
transactions between Canadian residents and non-residents in
three accounts: the current account, the capital account, and
the financial account.  The current account covers transactions in goods, services,
compensation of employees, investment income and current
transfers.  The current account data in this release are seasonally
adjusted. For more information on seasonal adjustment, see
Seasonal adjustment and identifying economic trends
( http://www5.statcan.gc.ca/bsolc/olc-cel/colc-cel?catno=11-010 -
X201000311141&amp;lang=eng) .  The capital account covers capital transfers and
transactions in non-produced non-financial assets.  The financial account comprises transactions in financial
assets and liabilities.  In principle, a net lending (+) / net borrowing (-) derived
from the sum of the current and capital accounts corresponds to
a net lending (+) / net borrowing (-) derived from the financial
account. In practice, as data are compiled from multiple sources,
this is rarely the case and gives rise to measurement error. The
discrepancy (net errors and omissions) is the unobserved net
inflow or outflow.  For more information about the balance of payments, consult
the “Frequently asked questions ( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/nea -
cen/faq-foq/bp-eng.htm) " section in the National economic
accounts module of our website. The module also presents the
most recent balance of payments statistics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  