-- Canada Dollar Falls on Speculation GDP Contracted
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-02-28T22:21:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/canada-dollar-falls-on-speculation-gdp-contracted.html
The Canadian dollar weakened to the
lowest level in eight months as slower-than-forecast growth in
the U.S., the nation’s largest trading partner, added to concern
a report tomorrow will show the economy contracted.  The currency fell against the majority of its most-traded
peers as the current-account deficit narrowed less than
economists surveyed projected. Canadian gross domestic product
shrank 0.2 percent in December, resulting in fourth quarter
growth holding steady at 0.6 percent, according to the median
estimates of two Bloomberg News surveys.  “The weakness was largely driven off the disappointment
from the GDP data in the U.S. coming out much softer than
expected,” said Mazen Issa,  Canada  macro strategist at Toronto-
Dominion Bank’s TD Securities, by phone from Toronto. “Heading
into the release tomorrow the dollar’s decline today certainly
reinforces the theme of universal softness in tomorrow’s GDP
report.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the water fowl on the C$1 coin, fell 0.8 percent to C$1.0306
per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. The currency earlier
reached C$1.0313, the lowest since June 29. One loonie buys
97.03 U.S. cents.  The currency fell 3.3 percent in February, a second
consecutive monthly decline and the biggest drop since May.  Canada’s benchmark  10-year bond  rose, with yields falling
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.83 percent.
The 2.75 percent security maturing in June 2022 gained 25 cents
to C$107.75.  Relative Strength  A technical measure has suggested the loonie will soon
reverse direction for the last seven trading days. The 14-day
relative strength index against the U.S. dollar has been below
30 percent since Feb. 20. The measure is at 29.4 percent today.  The nation’s current-account deficit shrank to C$17.3
billion ($16.9 billion) in the fourth quarter, compared to the
C$17 billion deficit forecast in the median of Bloomberg survey
of 18 economists.  “We have expectation building into tomorrow’s expectedly
weak Canadian data development,” said Greg T. Moore, a currency
strategist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , in phone interview from
Toronto. “We had the current account data miss expectations and
that’s certainly not positive.”  Industrial production in Canada was flat in January,
according to a separate report from  Statistics Canada , missing
the 0.3 percent growth forecast in the median of a Bloomberg
survey of 11 economists.  12-Month Decline  The  U.S. economy  barely expand in the fourth quarter,
erasing a previously estimated contraction, with 0.1 percent
annual growth, figures up from a previously estimated 0.1
percent drop, according to Commerce Department data.  The loonie has fallen 1.5 percent this year among the 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Index. The greenback gained 2.8 percent and
the Japanese yen lost 4.5 percent.  “We’ve got the GDP data tomorrow and the  Bank of Canada 
next week, so I think what we’ve got in general is a market that
is relatively cautious to the Canadian dollar,” said  David Watt , chief economist at the Canadian unit of HSBC Holdings Plc,
by phone from Toronto.  The next Bank of Canada interest-rate decision will take
place on March 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  