-- Cash and Kerry Not Enough for Syrian Fighters
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-02-28T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/cash-and-kerry-not-enough-for-syrian-fighters.html
Secretary of State John Kerry’s
announcement that the U.S. will send nonlethal aid directly to
Syrian rebels is a welcome expansion of U.S. involvement to end
the conflict in  Syria .  It doesn’t go far enough, however, either in changing the
facts on the ground in a vicious war that pits President Bashar al-Assad’s Scud missiles against the rebels’ small arms, or in
winning over and empowering the more moderate elements within a
coalition that risks being overshadowed by sectarian extremists.  The U.S. goals are straightforward. It wants to promote a
Syria that is stable, in control of its borders and preferably
not in thrall to  Iran . It doesn’t want a failed state that
becomes a haven for al-Qaeda franchises or a highway for weapons
to Hezbollah in Lebanon.  How it achieves those goals is far less clear-cut. Two
years into the crisis, diplomacy has accomplished little; many
think that direct military intervention can bring an end to
Syrians’ suffering.  At the same time, a more assertive policy would be
destabilizing. It could impede U.S. efforts to persuade Iran,
Syria’s ally, from building a nuclear weapon. It would
risk turning  Russia  -- another Assad ally -- from a truculent
frenemy into an openly hostile power. And it could draw the U.S.
into another bloody, expensive entanglement in the Middle East.  Until now, President  Barack Obama  has erred too far on the
side of caution, as we have said before. The U.S. plan put
forward Feb. 28 partly rectifies that imbalance by providing the
Free Syrian Army with medical equipment and ready-to-eat meals.
It gives the civilian opposition $60 million in humanitarian aid
for liberated areas. Senior administration officials also told
the  New York  Times that the U.S. was helping to train rebels at
an unspecified base in the region.  The Syrian opposition, however, wants more than Band-Aids,
and quickly expressed its frustration with Kerry’s offer. In a
news conference with Kerry, President Moaz al-Khatib of the
Syrian Opposition Council complained of repeated questions about
whether military hardware would end up in the hands of Islamic
militants. We think he has a point. The U.S. and the European
Union would be wise to expand their definition of nonlethal aid
to encompass armored vehicles, body armor and night-vision
equipment. In addition to making the rebels a more effective
fighting force, such hardware offers a much more tangible
manifestation of support.  Stepping up training and assistance through direct channels
would help to develop the rebels’ chain of command as well as
increasing U.S. influence. Syrian opposition groups have been
planning to meet soon in Istanbul to unveil a provisional
government. Once Syrian civilians in rebel-held areas can go to
representatives of a government in exile for money to provide
food, services and humanitarian aid, that government (and its
funders) will become more relevant.  The U.S. and the EU would also win hearts and minds -- and
save lives -- by boosting assistance to Syria’s neighbors as
they cope with a  refugee crisis  that has pushed almost 1 million
Syrians outside the country and displaced almost 2 million
within it. As of mid-February, the United Nations had received
less than 20 percent of the roughly $1 billion it needs to care
for Syrian refugees through June.  There’s no doubt that the U.S. could, if it wanted,
decisively shift the balance of military power by flooding the
country with arms. But a lasting solution to the sectarian
strife between Syria’s majority Sunnis and the minorities that
support Assad will remain political. Careful calibration and
diplomatic caution are called for, both in aiding Syria’s rebels
and as Kerry travels on to  Turkey ,  Egypt , Saudi Arabia, the
United Arab Emirates and Qatar -- each with its own role and
stake in ending of a conflict that has taken 70,000 lives and
roiled the Middle East.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 