-- Catamaran’s Thierer Plans To Be Active In Acquisitions
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-02-28T21:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/catamaran-s-thierer-plans-to-be-active-in-acquisitions.html
Catamaran Corp. (CCT) , the fourth-largest
drug-benefits manager, will be “very active” this year in
buying smaller competitors and sees opportunities in the state-
run Medicaid program for the poor, Chief Executive Officer Mark Thierer said.  The company is evaluating half-a-dozen acquisition targets
and has about $1 billion to spend in cash and available credit,
Thierer said in an interview today. The likeliest targets are
more than 30 smaller pharmacy benefit managers that use
Catamaran’s drug-management  technology , he said.  “One of the core strategies that we’ve executed in the
last several years is a roll-up of the middle market in the PBM
space,” Thierer said. “There’s nothing preventing us from
entering the market in 2013” for acquisitions.  Catamaran, formed last year from SCX Health Solutions Corp.
and Catalyst Health Solutions Inc., doubled sales in 2012 to
$9.9 billion after the combination and the acquisition of
HealthTrans, the Lisle, Illinois-based company said today in a
statement. The benefits manager forecast 2013 sales of as much
as $14.6 billion, less than the $14.9 billion average of 24
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Catamaran fell 3.2 percent to $53.75 at 4 p.m.  New York 
time. Fourth-quarter earnings, excluding one-time items, of 39
cents a share exceeded by 4 cents the average of 23 analyst
estimates.  Medicaid Market  Medicaid may become a bigger market for Catamaran, Thierer
said. The company has contracts with nine states, led by
 Georgia , to manage prescriptions for poor people enrolled in the
 $459 billion  federal-state program.  States are deciding under the 2010 Affordable Care Act
health-care law whether to expand Medicaid to cover more people
earning near-poverty wages. Eight Republican governors who once
opposed the law have agreed to the expansion, in large part
because the federal government will pay 100 percent of the cost
until 2017.  “You’re going to see Medicaid expansions throughout the
country because of the guarantee of this 100 percent federal
funding,” Thierer said. “Other than  Texas , people are going to
have to take this money.”  Catamaran recently won a Medicaid contract in  Indiana  and
is “talking to” the government of its home state,  Illinois ,
about the Medicaid business there, Thierer said. The state could
generate “several hundreds of millions of dollars in savings”
if it hires a managed-care firm to handle Medicaid
prescriptions, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  