-- McCain’s Leftover Campaign Funds Plot Path for Policy
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-02-28T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/mccain-s-leftover-campaign-funds-plot-path-for-policy.html
When four foreign policy experts
held an animated debate recently on a Washington stage over
whether the U.S. can or should save  Syria , it was a member of
the audience who drew the most attention.  John McCain, the 76-year-old war hero, five-term senator
and former presidential candidate, was watching from the seats
of the U.S. Navy Memorial Burke Theater for the inaugural debate
of his namesake research institute.  Started with about $9 million in leftover campaign funds,
the  Arizona  State University  McCain Institute for International
Leadership  gives McCain a chance to aim for loftier, nonpartisan
goals to top off a long political career.  “I don’t particularly view it as a legacy,” McCain said
in an interview. “You always want to try to do things that will
last beyond your time.”  Creating a forum that leaves the debating to others is a
switch for the Arizona Republican, who long has been a leading
voice in his party on foreign policy and national security.  In the wake of the Arab Spring uprisings across the  Middle
East  and North Africa, McCain has been a reliable critic of the
policies of President  Barack Obama , whom McCain challenged for
the presidency in 2008. He threatened Chuck Hagel’s confirmation
as Obama’s second-term defense secretary and  John Brennan ’s as
director of the Central Intelligence Agency to prod the White
House to disclose more information about last year’s deadly
attack on a U.S. mission in Benghazi,  Libya .  McCain’s Frustration  McCain rejects the notion that he’s a partisan critic.  “I did the same with a Republican president,” he said,
citing his disagreements with former President  George W. Bush  on
foreign and domestic issues.  One of his frustrations, he said, is that when he takes on
fellow Republicans he’s branded “heroic,” while “I am
regarded, when I criticize a Democratic president, as an angry
old man.”  The institute’s second debate, “Afghanistan 2014: Should
We Stay or Should We Go?” will be held tonight.  During the inaugural forum Jan. 30 two of the four
panelists --  Aaron David Miller  of the Wilson Center and  Joshua Landis  of the University of  Oklahoma  -- sided with Obama’s
stance of resisting military intervention in Syria. Robert Kagan
of the  Brookings Institution  and Leon Wieseltier of the New
Republic argued for more direct backing of Syrian rebels,
including weapons.  The audience included Brent Scowcroft, the former national
security adviser for Presidents  Gerald Ford  and  George H.W. Bush ; lawmakers, ambassadors, Syrian-Americans, students and
Obama advisers watching online.  Open Debate  Afterward, Landis and Miller said the fact that McCain
doesn’t share their views on Syria didn’t color the discussion.  “It was just an honest, good debate and for my money that
speaks very well for the future of this institute,” Landis
said. “Obviously he knows where he wants to move the debate,
but to do that he’s engaging in honest, intellectual inquiry.”  The institute “reflects a different kind of image than the
one you might associate with him” and “opened up a side of him
that I haven’t seen lately,” Miller said of McCain.  “We all are complicated individuals,” Miller said. “He
has a political life. He has to reconcile his own past and his
story. I think in an ideal world, where re-election and party
politics aren’t an issue, this notion of the American national
interest transcends party.”  The funding for the McCain Institute sprang from the 2008
presidential election.  Institute’s Roots  Federal election law allows candidates to use leftover
campaign funds for charitable purposes. McCain, who was re-
elected to the Senate in 2010, had about $9 million to spend,
said Kurt Volker, the institute’s executive director and a
former U.S. ambassador to NATO under Bush. The McCain Institute
Foundation was established, and McCain sought an academic
partner.  Arizona State University  signed on. The institute
launched last May.  Between commitments from the McCain Institute Foundation
and the university’s foundation, the institute has secured
annual funding of $2 million for the next five years.
Fundraising will continue.  “People need objective assessments and open and honest
debate without coming in with pre-planned bias,” McCain said of
the mission. “It can affect our national security policy and
our foreign policy.”  As long as McCain is a senator, his involvement with the
institute has restrictions and is being cleared through campaign
finance lawyers and the Senate’s ethics committee, Volker said.  Donors Undisclosed  While McCain can thank people who speak at institute
events, he can’t solicit contributions. The university and
institute foundation can raise money from McCain’s political
backers. The institute has not disclosed its donors.  “We’re bringing in people from all sides of the aisle,”
said Rick Shangraw, chief executive officer of the ASU
Foundation for a New American University.  The institute’s Washington office, in the Council on
Foreign Relations building near the White House, will have
programs for university students and a “next generation
leaders” program that draws international participants. It
hosted a Burmese women’s delegation this month.  “When  John McCain  and his family were thinking about what
they wanted as a legacy institution, the last think they wanted
was a book-holding entity or a paper-producing entity,” said
ASU President Michael Crow. “He was interested in anything
other than the normal model.”  Crow said McCain demonstrates the duality required in
modern politics: partisan fighter and policy advocate.  “When I listen to him on the radio sometimes in the heat
of a political debate, that’s like the football player on the
field trying to win,” he said. “This is different.”  “More than anything,” Crow said, “what he’s interested
in with this institution is finding a way to produce people
better than any of us now, including him.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  