-- CEZ 4th-Quarter Profit Falls 52% on Albania, Power Prices
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2013-02-28T15:47:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/cez-4th-quarter-profit-falls-52-on-albania-power-prices.html
CEZ AS (CEZ) , the largest Czech power
producer, said fourth-quarter profit slumped 52 percent after
its operations in Albania were seized and because of lower
electricity production.  Net income fell to 6.9 billion koruna ($354 million) from
14.4 billion koruna a year earlier, the Prague-based utility
said today in a statement. That missed the 7.7 billion-koruna
median estimate of 11 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  CEZ reduced earnings targets last November because of
continued losses at its Albanian unit. Albania’s regulator has
revoked the company’s license and CEZ estimates it lost 5.8
billion koruna in the country last year. Revenue was also hurt
by maintenance halts that resulted in lower electricity
production.  “All major energy businesses in  Europe  have a hard time
coping with the unstable environment, the considerable drop of
wholesale electricity prices and a future that is hard to
predict,” Chief Executive Officer Daniel Benes said in the
statement.  CEZ expects earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization of 80 billion koruna and net income of 37 billion
koruna this year, according to the statement. That’s below
analysts’ expectations, according to  Chris Rogers  at Bloomberg
Industries.  “It could be partly Albania and  Bulgaria , but the outlook
likely reflects a bearish view on the market, too,” Rogers
said.  Hedged Prices  The company hedged its 2014 electricity prices at 49.50
euros to 50 euros per megawatt-hour, and presold power for 2015
and 2016 at 46 euros per megawatt-hour, Trading Director Alan Svoboda said.  Electricity for delivery next year in  Germany , where CEZ
exports part of its output, has declined 4.2 percent this year,
and was up 0.8 percent at 42.20 euros a megawatt-hour today.  Ebitda fell 16 percent in the fourth quarter to 20.8
billion koruna, in line with the 20.3 billion-koruna median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey. Operating revenue slid 11
percent to 52.6 billion koruna, the company said.  CEZ fell 0.8 percent to 592 koruna, the lowest price since
Oct. 27, 2008, today in  Prague . The stock has fallen 13 percent
this year, compared with a 2.3 percent retreat for Prague’s
benchmark index.  CEZ is also fighting an attempt by Bulgarian authorities to
revoke its license. The country’s regulator moved last week to
strip the Czech utility of the right to operate its power-
distribution network after high electricity bills caused violent
street protests, leading to the collapse of the Bulgarian
government. CEZ denies any wrongdoing in Bulgaria.  “We believe we’ve made no mistakes and the situation in
Bulgaria will be cleared,” Benes said at a press conference in
Prague. “Bulgaria is an EU country and as such is bound by its
laws.”  The company is “very close to agreement” with Czech Coal
AS, the supplier of fuel for some of CEZ’s coal-fired plants, on
a long-term supply contract, Benes said.  CEZ is also in the process of choosing a supplier for two
new reactors for the Temelin nuclear power station. Westinghouse
Electric Co LLC and a Russian-Czech group led by Rosatorm Corp
are competing for the $10 billion contract, and CEZ plans to
publish a preliminary assessment of the two bids in about two
weeks, Benes said. The utility plans to announce the winner
around the middle of the year and sign a contract by the end of
2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  