-- CEZ Reduces Romanian Wind Capacity Plan on Incentives, Temelin
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2013-02-28T16:27:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/cez-reduces-romanian-wind-capacity-plan-on-incentives-temelin.html
CEZ AS (CEZ)  reduced its plan to build new
wind farms in Romania by two thirds, citing uncertainty over the
country’s renewables incentive scheme and higher funding needs
for projects in the Czech Republic.  The Prague-based power producer plans to build as much as
300 megawatts of wind farms by 2016 in Romania, compared with a
previous plan of about 1,000 megawatts, Jan Veskrna, who heads
CEZ’s local unit, said in an interview in Bucharest today.  “We only reduced the capacity, but the timeframe remains
the same” by 2016, Veskrna said. This reduction “comes not
only from the debate on the incentives scheme, but also from our
shareholder because of the decision to favor” the Temelin
nuclear plant project in the Czech Republic.  CEZ finished a 600-megawatt wind farm project in Fantanele
and Cogealac in eastern Romania near the Black Sea coast, the
biggest onshore wind farm in Europe, last year to benefit from a
renewables incentive scheme in the country.  Romania will scale back renewable-power subsidies to limit
electricity-price increases for consumers by changing its
incentive program in July or at the beginning of next year,
Minister-Delegate for Energy Constantin Nita said in an
interview in Bucharest today. It intends to cut the maximum
value of so-called green certificates granted for clean-energy
generation, he said.  “We have a project of the size of 240 megawatts,” which
is pending approval from the Prague headquarters, Veskrna said.
“Prague is waiting now to see the result of the debate on the
incentives scheme. If it will be something dramatic, I think it
will definitely affect the decision.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  