-- McGraw Fighting U.S. Justice Recalls AmEx Battle for Company
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2013-02-28T17:24:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/mcgraw-fighting-u-s-justice-recalls-amex-battle-to-save-company.html
After 30-year-old Harold W.
“Terry” McGraw III helped his father fend off a hostile
takeover from  American Express Co. (AXP)  more than three decades ago,
 McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP)  shareholders were rewarded with an 11 percent
annualized return through 2012.  No such good fortune is anticipated now after the U.S.
government on Feb. 4 accused the company and its Standard &
Poor’s credit-rating unit of fraud. The stock has dropped 20
percent, going from a premium to the market to a discount, and
McGraw, now chief executive officer and the family patriarch,
faces the firm’s worst crisis in its 125-year history.  “I’ve known three generations of McGraws and they all felt
the same way: the firm is sacrosanct,” Joseph Dionne, Terry McGraw’s predecessor as CEO, said in a Feb. 21 telephone
interview.  The lawsuit, which seeks as much as $5 billion in damages,
or the equivalent of more than five years of profit, reduced the
New York-based company’s market  value  by $3.2 billion and
McGraw’s 1.56 percent stake by $54 million to $198.9 million
through yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
shares are trading today at $46.42 from $58.34 on Feb. 1 and
credit-default swaps tied to its debt are near a 10-month high.
Moody’s Investors Service  cut  rival McGraw-Hill’s credit rating
by two levels to Baa2, or two steps above junk.  Family Legacy  After this month’s rout, the worst since September 2009,
the stock trades at 13.74 times earnings, down from 17.16 before
the lawsuit was filed and below the average 14.96 for the  S&P
500 .  “This is his family legacy on the line,” Jeffrey Manns,
an associate professor of law at George Washington University in
Washington, said of McGraw in a Feb. 13 telephone interview.
“He’s gambled his financial future on the future of S&P, and he
has more of a stake in the resolution of this litigation than
any other party.”  The company, which declined to make the 64-year-old McGraw
available for an interview, said in a Feb. 5 statement that the
lawsuit is without merit. The government didn’t sue Moody’s or
 Fitch Ratings . Jason Feuchtwanger, a McGraw-Hill spokesman, said
in an e-mail that the company expects to prevail against the
claims and forecasts 2013 will be “another strong year.”  McGraw, speaking on a conference call with analysts and
reporters Feb. 12, after S&P reported its highest revenue since
at least 2009, said executives “will vigorously defend our
company, as we have successfully defended against more than 40
other financial crisis-related cases.”  1888 Roots  Investors have spurned firms hit with federal lawsuits.
After paying a $550 million fine to settle charges from the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission that it misled investors on
sales of collateralized debt obligations,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  has yet to recover its market value, which fell to $73.5
billion yesterday from more than $100 billion before it was sued
in April 2010.  McGraw-Hill dates back to 1888, when James H. McGraw
acquired The American Journal of Railway Appliances, according
to the company’s  website . He later merged his book-publishing
department with John A. Hill’s, creating the McGraw-Hill Book
Co.  Terry McGraw, who graduated from  Tufts University  in
Medford, Massachusetts, and has an MBA from the  University of
Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School of Business, took a leave of
absence in 1979 from GTE Corp., now part of Verizon
Communications Inc., when he was brought in to defend the family
legacy from American Express, Dionne said.  Left Astonished  He joined his brother Robert as they rallied around the
late Harold W. McGraw Jr. while he beat back James D. Robinson
III’s charge-card issuer. Bringing in his sons showed the
family’s concern, “not only about the company, but all the
people in the company,” Dionne said.  McGraw-Hill warded off its unwanted suitor in part by
claiming one of its own directors violated his fiduciary duty,
according to Dionne, who retired in 1998 after 15 years as CEO
and more than 30 years at the company. The McGraw-Hill director
was employed by American Express when it was planning the bid,
he said.  “The McGraws were astonished that American Express would
try to acquire a company that didn’t want to be acquired,”
 Martin Lipton , a founding partner of law firm Wachtell, Lipton,
Rosen & Katz who represented the company at the time, said in a
telephone interview on Feb. 19. “You have to recognize that in
1979 while there had been some hostile takeover attempts, there
were virtually none in which a major established company went
after another major established company.”  Corporate Transformation  McGraw formally joined the company in 1980, holding a
variety of  jobs  that included publisher of Aviation Week and
Space Technology magazine and head of the financial services
division that included S&P.  He was named CEO in 1998, and transformed the company from
a publisher into a financial services firm dominated by S&P, the
world’s biggest credit-rater, which his father had bought in
1966. He cast off publications from Chemical Engineering to
Modern Plastics to Businessweek, which was purchased in 2009 by
Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News .  Focusing on the faster-growing ratings business helped
McGraw-Hill recover from the recession, sending its shares to a
five-year high of $58.62 on Feb. 1. The shares have  gained  139
percent since April 1998, compared with a 35 percent rise in the
 S&P 500 index , Bloomberg data show. Named chairman in 2000,
McGraw earned $1.4 million in salary in 2011 and $8.7 million
including  stock options  in total compensation for the year.  ‘Rewarding Stock’  “I give Terry a high grade,”  Peter Appert , an analyst for
Piper Jaffray & Co., who’s been covering the company for at
least 20 years, said in a telephone interview on Feb. 14. “Even
acknowledging some of the volatility we’ve seen in the stock
recently, this has been a very rewarding stock over the course
of his tenure as CEO.”  After completing the sale of its education division for
$2.5 billion to Apollo Global Management LLC., McGraw-Hill will
be more reliant than ever on revenue from  Wall Street  and
companies selling securities graded by S&P while leaving it with
the most cash in six years, Bloomberg  data  show.  “With the education business going nowhere and acting as a
drag on the company, he made what had to be a very tough
decision because that was the family business.”  Ed Atorino , a
media analyst at Benchmark Co. in New York who forecasts McGraw-
Hill stock will outperform its peers over the next six to 12
months, said in a telephone interview Feb. 14. “Under his
leadership, McGraw-Hill has really moved forward.”  SEC’s Imprimatur  The moves also contributed to the company’s biggest
challenge since the American Express takeover attempt as the
 Justice Department  alleges S&P inflated grades on mortgage-
backed securities to win business, helping trigger the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression.  The S&P unit’s designation as a Nationally Recognized
Statistical Rating Organization by the SEC has benefited the
company. Some investors are required to buy only securities
rated by an NRSRO to meet regulatory requirements. S&P, Moody’s
and Fitch were the first to obtain the license in 1975, and by
2011 provided 96 percent of all grades in the  debt market , a
November SEC report found.  That imprimatur became more valuable during the early and
mid-2000s as easy credit led Wall Street firms to package record
amounts of subprime mortgages and other assets into bonds, and
companies ramped up borrowing.  Record Revenue  S&P rated more than $2.8 trillion of residential mortgage-
backed securities and about $1.2 trillion of CDOs from September
2004 through October 2007, according to the Justice Department
complaint filed in federal court in  Los Angeles .  At the height of the structured finance boom in 2007,
McGraw-Hill reported record revenue of $6.77 billion, a 46
percent increase from 2001, with its  financial services  division
responsible for 75 percent of operating income, Bloomberg data
show. The stock price soared from $24.35 to as high as $72.50,
with the 206 percent gain beating the S&P 500’s 58.4 percent
rise.  When the U.S. housing boom collapsed, the world’s largest
banks reported $2.1 trillion in losses and writedowns. Frozen
credit markets triggered the worst financial crisis since the
Great Depression and cost 8.8 million people their jobs.  Securities that S&P and Moody’s rated AAA and helped Wall
Street firms structure defaulted within months.  ‘Key Enablers’  S&P, Moody’s and Fitch were “key enablers of the financial
meltdown,” the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, created by
Congress with a 10-member bipartisan board, said in its January
2011 report. “This crisis could not have happened without the
rating agencies.”  The commission’s report also blamed the crisis on lenders’
irresponsible and sometimes fraudulent practices; regulators’
inattention and overconfidence; and the recklessness of
borrowers and investors.  “The fact is that S&P’s ratings were based on the same
subprime mortgage data available to the rest of the market --
including U.S. government officials who in 2007 publicly stated
that problems in the subprime market appeared to be contained,”
McGraw-Hill’s Feuchtwanger wrote in the e-mail.  The ratings business is starting to make a comeback, with
corporate bond sales from the U.S. to Europe and Asia  climbing 
20.4 percent to a record $3.97 trillion last year, according to
Bloomberg data. Yields on the debt from the most creditworthy to
the riskiest borrowers plummeted to an all-time low of 3.24
percent on Dec. 28, according to the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch Global Corporate & High Yield index.  ‘His Heritage’  S&P had sales of $2.03 billion last year, the most since at
least 2009, Bloomberg  data  show. The unit accounted for 45
percent of McGraw-Hill’s revenue and 56 percent of operating
income in 2012, according to the  data .  McGraw-Hill faces lawsuits from 16 states and the  District
of Columbia  in addition to the federal case, which may not go to
trial for “two to three years,” Kenneth Vittor, the company’s
chief counsel, said on the conference call Feb. 12.  For McGraw, whose board hasn’t named a successor, fighting
the government will help determine his legacy.  “This is much more than a job for him; it’s his
heritage,”  Kathryn Wylde , president and chief executive officer
of Partnership for New York City, a nonprofit organization of
the city’s business leaders, where McGraw has served as a board
member for a dozen years, said in a telephone interview Feb. 19.
“The impact and implications of these accusations are more
difficult than if you were a hired-hand CEO.”  The Justice Department case is U.S. v. McGraw-Hill,
13-00779, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Santa Ana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  