-- Cheapest Utility No Lure as Eletrobras Sinks: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2013-02-28T18:30:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/cheapest-utility-no-lure-as-eletrobras-sinks-corporate-brazil.html
The 54 percent tumble in  Centrais
Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6)  that has made the state-run Brazilian
company the cheapest electric utility in the world is failing to
persuade analysts to abandon their sell ratings.  Eletrobras, as the company is known, has the highest ratio
of sell recommendations among all Brazilian stocks, three months
after the government unveiled energy price cuts that the utility
said will almost erase its earnings. Six of 11 firms, including
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Banco Itau BBA SA, have either  advised 
clients to sell the shares or placed their ratings under review
in the past six months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The energy rate cuts, part of President Dilma Rousseff’s
efforts to shore up economic growth, have driven electric
 utility stocks  down 22 percent since August, more than 10 times
the slump in the benchmark Bovespa index. While Eletrobras
trades at 0.12 times its book value, the lowest ratio among the
world’s 3,000 biggest companies by market value tracked by
Bloomberg, it’s not cheap enough to compensate for the company’s
earnings outlook, according to Banco Safra SA.  “The problem is they don’t manage to make profit out of
their book value, that’s why the price-to-book value is quite
low,” Sergio Tamashiro, an analyst at Banco Safra who has a
recommendation equivalent to sell for Eletrobras, said in a
phone interview from Sao Paulo. “There are doubts about
returns.”  Interventionist Policy  The lower electricity rates will almost wipe away Rio de
Janeiro-based Eletrobras’s earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, Chief Financial Officer Armando Casado de Araujo said on a conference call with analysts Nov.
19. As part of the government’s energy industry changes, which
were first announced in September and became effective Jan. 24,
electricity rates were cut by as much as 32 percent.  Brazil  amended electric utility contracts as Rousseff
intervened in the economy to tame inflation and rekindle growth
that economists surveyed by Bloomberg estimate slowed to 1
percent last year. The government also forced state-controlled
oil company  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  to sell gasoline below market
prices and pressured banks to reduce borrowing costs.  Market ‘Overreacts’  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said in a Feb. 26 interview
at Bloomberg headquarters in  New York  that the magnitude of the
Eletrobras selloff is unwarranted.  “The market always overreacts,” Mantega said.
“Eletrobras is a strong company that has kept all its
concessions for more than 30 years. It will continue investing.
Stocks fall one day and rise the next.”  Shares rose 0.6 percent to 12.48 reais at 3:19 p.m. in Sao
Paulo. The Bovespa index added 0.6 percent.  Eletrobras’s press office declined to comment in an e-
mailed response to questions on the stock’s value.  Pedro Galdi , the chief strategist at Sao Paulo-based
brokerage SLW Corretora, said Eletrobras may rebound if it is
able to sustain an “attractive” dividend policy.  “It’s still too early to say now is a good time to buy,
but I think we have to wait at least for its next financial
report to see what’s really going on,” Galdi said by telephone.
“The payout probably won’t be as high as it was before, but if
it manages to convince investors that dividend will still be
attractive, that could be a positive for the stock.”  Dividend Outlook  The effect lower electricity rates will have on the
company’s dividend policy is one of the reasons Itau BBA rates
Eletrobras underperform, meaning the stock is forecast to post
lower returns than the market average.  “We remain skeptical about Eletrobras’s dividends, and
continue to see the need for capital injection in order to
accommodate the company’s heavy” investment plan, Itau BBA
analysts Marcos Severine and Mariana Coelho wrote in the firm’s
most recent report about the company, dated Dec. 3. The bank’s
press office didn’t respond to an e-mail request for an
interview with the analysts.  Gabriel Salas, an analyst at JPMorgan, who rates Eletrobras
underweight, declined to comment on his recommendation.  Eletrobras’s dividend  yield  was 7.3 percent in 2011,
compared with an average 4.2 percent among the Bovespa’s
 members , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company is
scheduled to report its fourth-quarter earnings March 27.  While valuations may appear inexpensive, investors are
still concerned about the changes Brazil imposed on the industry
and the risk of similar interference in the future, said Fausto Gouveia, who helps manage about 380 million reais ($192.4
million) at Legan Administracao de Recursos.  Cost Cuts  “The government destroyed the electric sector,” Gouveia
said in a phone interview from  Sao Paulo . “It’s not clear if
they achieved the results they were seeking when making the
changes, or if something else will come after that. Prices may
look attractive, but I don’t see a strong flow of buyers going
to those stocks anytime soon.”  Eletrobras is planning to cut its workforce by as much as
15 percent as it tries to reduce costs to help compensate for
the lower rates. The company may also sell assets under a
corporate restructuring as it seeks to cut total expenses by 30
percent in the next three years, Chief Executive Officer Jose da Costa Carvalho told reporters in Brasilia on Feb. 20.  The utility “didn’t have a choice” other than to try to
cut costs now that it sees lower rates pushing revenue lower,
said Felipe Rocha, an analyst at Curitiba, Brazil-based
brokerage Omar Camargo Investimentos.  New Plans  “Eletrobras is revising its plans and trying to cut
costs,” Rocha said in a phone interview. “But as in most
state-run companies, this will probably take some time to
produce actual results. We’ll probably have to wait a few more
months, maybe a year, to see if things are really moving
forward.”  Because of the new electricity rate structure, it is
difficult to assess the company’s valuation. The changes
complicate profit projections because past results can no longer
be used as a reference, said Henrique Kleine, the head analyst
at Magliano SA brokerage.  “The company is in a totally different situation than it
was six months or a year ago,” Kleine said in a phone
interview. “It looks cheap, but it can get cheaper and cheaper.
I’d stay away from this stock for a while.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  