-- Chidambaram Tax to Cut Profit at Indian Companies Next Year
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-03-01T05:38:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/chidambaram-s-tax-to-cut-profit-at-indian-companies-next-year.html
Finance Minister P. Chidambaram’s
proposal to increase levies for Indian companies with pretax
income of more than $1.8 million may reduce earnings by 2
percent, said analysts including Deven Choksey, managing
director of K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt.  Chidambaram is imposing a 10 percent surcharge on companies
with pretax earnings in excess of 100 million rupees ($1.8
million), according to budget documents presented in Parliament
yesterday. The additional levy on the companies will increase
their tax payments by as much as 6 percent, said P. Phani Sekhar, a fund manager with Angel Broking Ltd. in Mumbai.  The government is raising taxes for people earning more
than 10 million rupees a year to revive growth from a four-year
low and narrow the widest budget deficit among BRIC nations as
Prime Minister Manmohan Singh prepares for elections next year.
Chidambaram is boosting spending on women and rural sectors.  “Companies’ profit growth will be much slower this year
because of the higher taxes,” said Kamlesh Kotak, head of
research at Asian Markets Securities Pvt. in Mumbai. “It’s a
triple whammy of higher taxes, slower growth and the coming
elections.”  The benchmark  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  index rose as much as 0.6
percent and was 0.4 percent higher as of 10:57 a.m. in Mumbai.
The gauge fell 1.5 percent yesterday to the lowest since Nov.
27.  Profits at 43 percent of the Sensex companies trailed
estimates in the quarter ended Dec. 31, compared with 40 percent
in the previous two quarters, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Earnings Forecast  Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC) ,  India ’s biggest profit-making
company, may report a 10 percent increase in profit for the year
beginning April 1, according to the median of 11 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Net income at  Reliance
Industries Ltd. (RIL)  may rise 4.4 percent and at  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO)  may climb
8.2 percent.  Chidambaram aims to cut the  budget deficit  to 4.8 percent
of gross domestic product in the 12 months starting April 1
after a 5.2 percent gap in 2012-2013. The shortfall, which was
5.8 percent in 2011-2012, is the widest in the BRIC group, which
also includes Brazil, Russia and  China .  The government’s total expenditure will climb to 16.7
trillion rupees in 2013-2014 from an estimated 14.3 trillion
rupees this financial year, according to the budget documents.
Projected spending on a subsidy program ranging from diesel to
food and fertilizers will decline about 11 percent to 2.2
trillion rupees.  A report yesterday showed the $1.8 trillion economy rose
4.5 percent in the three months through Dec. 31 from a year
earlier, the weakest pace in almost four years.  “The country needs as much investments as possible in a
slowing economy, but the finance minister is also constrained
and requires revenue,” Angel’s Sekhar said by phone from
Mumbai. “For the companies, the good part is that it’s for a
year and they will have to adjust. Their dividend payouts may be
cut.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  