-- Apple Threatened With Higher Smartphone Tax: Corporate India
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2013-03-01T10:40:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/chidambaram-eyes-iphone-z10-to-plug-budget-gap-corporate-india.html
Smartphone sales in  India  may suffer
from a higher tax on handsets costing more than $37 just as
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  steps up efforts to tap demand for data services in
the world’s second-largest mobile-phone market.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram yesterday said he
would raise the excise tax on high-end phones to 6 percent from
1 percent to help finance welfare programs for the country’s
poor and fund the widest  budget  deficit among the largest
emerging economies.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , which sells the
Galaxy range of smartphones, said the move “won’t have a
positive impact” on the mobile-phone industry and will force
customers to pay more.  India’s government, after attempting to squeeze wireless
operators including  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) 
with higher license fees and airwave tariffs, is now targeting
handsets for revenue from an industry that has boomed since
Prime Minister Manmohan Singh opened the economy more than two
decades ago. Chidambaram also increased tax on high earners,
luxury cars and yachts.  “This is a bit over the top,” said Rajan Bharti Mittal,
vice chairman and managing director of Bharti Enterprises Ltd.
that controls Bharti, which operates the nation’s biggest
cellular network. “Mobile handsets and smartphones are hardly
luxury items. This should be reviewed.”  Rural Jobs  Chidambaram said he needs to raise 16.7 trillion rupees
($306 billion) in the 12 months starting April 1, 16 percent
more than the revised estimates for the current fiscal year, to
meet expenditure and rein in the deficit at  4.8 percent  of gross
domestic product.  He allocated 330 billion rupees for his government’s
flagship rural jobs program and 100 billion rupees for a plan to
give the poor low-price food grains as the ruling coalition
faces nationwide elections by May 2014.  The higher tax will hurt Apple, BlackBerry and Samsung
because the top-end models will appear overpriced to buyers,
said Mittal.  Apple, which hasn’t treated the Indian market as top
priority until recently, is seeing its efforts pay off since
introducing its iTunes store in the South Asian country and
slashing prices on older models like the iPhone 4. Shipments
rose to a record 254,000 in the fourth quarter, from 52,000 in
the third quarter, according to data provided by Framingham,
Massachusetts-based researcher IDC.  Not Favorable  Apple’s London-based spokesman Alan Hely declined to
comment on the increase in excise tax.  Waterloo, Ontario-based  BlackBerry (BB) , formerly known as
Research in Motion Ltd., which introduced its latest Z10 model
in the country last month for $800, said the tax measure could
deter consumers who aspire to own smartphones.  “India is on its way to becoming the world’s third-largest
smartphone market,” said Sunil Dutt, managing director of
BlackBerry in India. “This isn’t favorable to the growth of the
segment.”  Phones that cost below 2,000 rupees, which Chidambaram has
exempted from the excise tax, account for 75 percent of India’s
market, according to Gartner Inc. Cheaper phones are popular in
the country, where the World Bank estimates more than 800
million people live on less than $2 a day. The Galaxy S3 costs
about 29,000 rupees, while the iPhone 5 starts at 45,500 rupees.  Erode Margins  While the higher tax may erode margins for phone makers, it
may not dent demand, said T.M. Ramakrishnan, chief executive
officer for devices at  S Mobility Ltd. (SPCEM) , a local company that
imports handsets from Asia and sells them under its brand.  “It will surely impact the industry’s focus on making
smartphones more affordable,” he said. “Also, it may get that
much more difficult for smartphones to penetrate rural areas.”  S Mobility shares in Mumbai slumped 6.5 percent, the
biggest loss since May 4, to 25.3 rupees, according to Bloomberg
Data.  Apple, Samsung and BlackBerry are counting on the growth of
data services in the country after carriers started offering
third-generation services in 2011. The market for smartphones in
India is set to grow 50 percent in 2013, according to IDC, while
in  China  the rate is set to slow to as low as 40 percent from as
high as 150 percent in 2012.  Mobile data traffic surged as much as 300 percent in the
last 12 months, while revenue grew 50 percent from the previous
year, according to Mohammad Chowdhury, leader of
telecommunications practice at PricewaterhouseCoopers in Mumbai.  Damp Sales  “We will see some damping in consumer sales,” Chowdhury
said. “In turn this will impact negatively the uptake of data
services in India, and in all likelihood slow it down just at a
time when it has begun to gain momentum.”  The government’s efforts to raise 400 billion rupees from
the sale of airwaves in the year ending March 31 failed after
carriers balked at the fees set by the nation’s
telecommunications regulator in the first round of auctions in
November. Instead, it met only 25 percent of that goal.  Mobile connections in the country fell to 725 million in
January from as high as 1.01 billion in June, according to data
provided by the  Cellular Operators Association of India  and the
Association of Unified Telecom Service Providers of India.  “The government has targeted another successful industry
to raise revenue,” said Anshul Gupta, a Mumbai-based analyst
with Gartner. “This will trigger a price rise, meaning people
will have to pay more, especially for mid-tier and high-end
phones.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in New Delhi at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  