-- China, Russia Face Possible Renewal of EU Steel-Material Tariffs
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-02-28T13:34:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/china-russia-face-possible-renewal-of-eu-steel-material-tariffs.html
The European Union threatened to
renew tariffs on a ferro-alloy from  China  and  Russia  for another
five years while letting similar levies against Kazakhstan and
 Egypt  lapse.  The EU said it would examine whether to reimpose the duties
on imports from China and Russia of ferro-silicon, which is used
by steelmakers such as  ArcelorMittal. (MT)  The  import taxes  punish
Chinese and Russian producers of ferro-silicon for selling it in
the EU below cost, a practice known as dumping.  The review “will determine whether the expiry of the
measures would be likely to lead to a continuation or recurrence
of dumping” and “a continuation or recurrence of injury” to
the EU industry, the European Commission, the bloc’s trade
authority in Brussels, said today in the  Official Journal . A
regular re-imposition of the levies would be for five years.  The levies, as high as 31.2 percent for China and up to
22.7 percent for Russia, were due to end tomorrow along with the
measures against  Kazakhstan  and Egypt and will now stay in place
during the probe, which may last as long as 15 months.  The review of the duties results from a Nov. 28 request by
a group called Euroalliages on behalf of European producers that
account for more than a quarter of the EU’s output of ferro-
silicon, according to the commission. It didn’t identify any EU
producers.  The expiring levies are 33.9 percent for Kazakhstan and as
much as 18 percent for Egypt. When it imposed the anti-dumping
duties five years ago, the EU also targeted the Republic of
Macedonia with a 5.4 percent levy. The 27-nation bloc repealed
that measure at the end of 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  