-- Chinese Solar-Glass Makers Face Threat of EU Tariffs
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-03-01T07:02:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/chinese-solar-glass-makers-face-threat-of-european-union-tariffs.html
The  European Union  threatened to
impose tariffs on solar glass from China to curb import
competition for EU producers, heightening trade tensions over
renewable energy.  The EU opened an inquiry into whether Chinese makers of
solar glass sell it in the 27-nation bloc below cost, a practice
known as  dumping . The glass is used for the production of solar
panels, which are themselves the focus of two European trade
probes affecting China.  Since last year, the EU has been investigating alleged
subsidies to Chinese solar-panel makers and alleged dumping by
them in the bloc’s biggest trade dispute of its kind. Those two
cases could lead later this year to EU anti-dumping and anti-
subsidy duties on Chinese solar panels.  The new investigation will determine whether shipments of
solar glass from China are “being dumped and whether the dumped
imports have caused injury” to the EU industry, the European
Commission, the bloc’s trade authority in Brussels, said
yesterday in the  Official Journal . The commission has nine
months to decide whether to impose provisional anti-dumping
duties for half a year and EU governments have 15 months to
decide whether to apply “definitive” levies for five years.  The probe stems from a Jan. 15 dumping complaint by an
industry group -- EU ProSun Glass -- on behalf of producers that
account for more than 25 percent of the EU’s output of solar
glass, said the commission, which didn’t identify any companies.  The EU solar-glass market is valued at less than 200
million euros ($261 million), the commission said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday about the case.  Solar glass is used to cover solar cells to assemble them
into panels. The material accounts for about 4 percent of solar-
panel costs, while polysilicon, the most costly component in
making panels, amounts to 13 percent, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance data.  By comparison, EU imports of solar panels from China were
worth 21 billion euros in 2011, the commission said in early
September when it opened the dumping probe into those goods. The
EU subsidy probe into Chinese solar panels began in early
November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  