-- China Congress Gives Xi-Li Partnership Place to Unveil Plans
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-01T03:03:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/china-congress-offers-xi-li-partnership-chance-to-unveil-policy.html
China is poised to complete a once-
in-a-decade leadership handover in the next two weeks, as
pressure rises on Xi Jinping and  Li Keqiang  to add specifics to
pledges to rein in corruption and address income imbalances.  Xi will become president and Li premier at the end of the
annual gathering of the National People’s Congress, China’s
parliament, which begins March 5. They have vowed to make the
financial system more market-based, get tough on graft and
combat pollution.  As they try to deliver on these promises, Xi and Li face an
unprecedented level of public scrutiny, with China’s online
community expanding more than eight-fold since their
predecessors took power 10 years ago. At stake is their ability
to maintain the ruling Communist Party’s legitimacy as it
adjusts to slower economic growth after an average of  10.5
percent expansion  over the past decade.  “Xi and Li take over a nation characterized by far more
large-scale corruption, inequality of wealth and environmental
degradation than was the case a decade ago,” said  Kenneth Lieberthal , director of the  Brookings Institution ’s John L.
Thornton China Center. “The population is now demanding that
the government treat it with greater respect.”  The two-week conclave, which will be attended by almost
3,000 delegates, will reveal the shape of the Xi-Li
administration with the appointment of new cabinet ministers. It
may also provide details on plans to revamp the central
government by merging some ministries.  Zhou Stays  Policy makers will allow  Zhou Xiaochuan  to stay on as
central bank governor, according to a person with direct
knowledge of the discussions. Keeping Zhou would send a “strong
reformist signal because it is implicit approval of his liberal
views,” said BNP Paribas SA economist  Ken Peng , who is based in
Beijing.  The party’s  Central Committee  adopted a plan yesterday to
simplify the government and cut red tape by combining some
ministries, the official Xinhua News Agency reported. “Market
and social forces will be given a greater role in allocating
resources,” Xinhua said, citing a communique from the meeting.
The plan will be forwarded to the NPC for approval during its
session.  A press conference at the end of the meeting will give Li a
chance to outline his policy plans while providing insight into
his personality, said  Mark Williams , an economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in  London .  First Time  “It’s the only time during the year when the rest of the
world gets to hear at length from the prime minister and this
time it’s all the more important because it’s his first time at
the podium,” said Williams, who previously advised the U.K.
Treasury on China.  Xi and Li inherit a set of challenges from President  Hu
Jintao  and Premier  Wen Jiabao  that derive from China’s rapid
economic expansion. The economy grew more than four-fold in
nominal terms to  51.9 trillion yuan  ($8.3 trillion) last year
from 12 trillion  yuan  in 2002, when Hu and Wen took power.  In that period, China became the world’s biggest exporter
and overtook  Japan  to become the world’s second-largest economy,
behind the U.S. The  market capitalization  of China-listed
companies increased more than seven times to $3.2 trillion.  Chinese companies announced more than $54 billion in
overseas acquisitions last year, compared with about $1 billion
in 2002, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lenovo Group
Ltd. (992)  bought  International Business Machines Corp.’s (IBM)  PC unit in
2005 and Wanda Group bought U.S. cinema-owner AMC Entertainment
Holdings last year for $2.6 billion.  Income Gap  Economic expansion has also spawned a widening rich-poor
divide among China’s 1.3 billion people. China’s Gini
coefficient, a measure of income differences, reached 0.474,
higher than the 0.4 level that analysts say signals a potential
for social unrest.  China also became the world’s biggest emitter of carbon
dioxide in 2006 and smog in Beijing exceeded hazardous levels
for at least 19 days in January.  “Look at the pollution in Beijing and the traffic problems
there,” said Stephen Jen, managing partner at hedge fund SLJ
Macro Partners LLP in London. “This is the capital of one of
the most admired countries in the world today -- why can’t they
tackle these problems?”  Wen said in 2010 that 8 percent expansion was necessary for
“basic stability of employment,” according to the party’s
Qiushi magazine. Growth slumped to a  13-year low  of 7.8 percent
last year, according to government data.  Expressing Discontent  China ’s citizens have used the Internet to increasingly
express discontent over issues from pollution to graft to income
disparities. China added 51 million  web users  last year to bring
the total to 564 million, underscoring the challenge faced by Xi
and Li in ensuring the government’s message remains dominant.  When Xi became Communist Party general secretary in
November, he said corruption risks weakening the party’s grip on
power. Internet postings have led to the removal of government
officials including one nicknamed “Brother Watch” whose
collection of luxury timepieces was exposed online.  “The demands on government have never been greater, and
the complexity of governing China never greater,” said Kerry
Brown, director of the China Studies Center at the  University of
Sydney .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  