-- Chrysler to Invest $374 Million at Transmission Plants
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-02-28T17:47:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/chrysler-to-invest-374-million-at-transmission-plants.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the automaker
majority owned by  Fiat SpA (F) , will invest about $374 million and
add 1,250 jobs at Indiana factories to boost output of eight-and
nine-speed transmissions.  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  disclosed the
investment at one of the factories in Kokomo, Indiana. The
transmissions and their additional gears improve performance and
boost fuel economy.  “This is the sole region where we manufacture
transmissions, and including all of the nearby facilities, it
will be the largest transmission installation in the world,”
Marchionne told workers today at one of the plants.  Marchionne, who is also Fiat CEO, is betting he can meet
regulatory requirements for increased fuel efficiency primarily
by improving traditional gasoline engines with the better
transmissions. The strategy takes less investment than
developing gasoline-electric hybrid vehicles.  “With more gears, these transmissions can run more often
in their optimal speed ranges, providing both better fuel
economy and vehicle performance,” Marchionne said at today’s
event.  Chrysler plans to spend $212 million for additional
equipment and tooling at its Kokomo Transmission, Kokomo Casting
and  Indiana  Transmission I  plants , which will create as many as
400 new jobs. Work begins in this year’s second quarter and will
be completed in the fourth quarter.  New Factory  The company also will acquire a former Getrag facility and
invest $162 million in a new Tipton, Indiana, plant for nine-
speed transmissions, which adds as many as 850 new jobs. That
site will be completed at the end of 2014. Chrysler employs more
than 6,100 workers in the Kokomo area, according to a statement.
Tipton is about 20 miles (32 kilometers) south of Kokomo.  The Indiana Transmission I factory topped production of
530,000 six-speed transmissions last year, Marchionne said. The
factory originally was tooled to build 400,000 units, he said. A
nearby company plant that builds five-speed transmissions also
surpassed a half-million units, exceeding its official capacity
of just 400,000, according to Chrysler.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Kokomo, Indiana, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  