-- City Developments Quarterly Profit Rises 53% on Home Sales
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-02-28T09:55:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/city-developments-4th-quarter-net-rises-53-on-housing-projects.html
City Developments Ltd. (CIT) , Singapore’s
second-largest developer, said fourth-quarter profit jumped 53
percent, boosted by its property development business.  Net income  climbed to S$249.3 million ($201.5 million) in
the three months ended Dec. 31, from S$163.2 million a year
earlier, it said in Singapore exchange statement today. Sales
gained 23 percent to S$886.4 million. For the full year, profit
fell 15 percent to S$678.3 million, higher than the S$599
million mean estimate of 21 analyst surveyed by Bloomberg.  The Singapore government earlier this week announced plans
to raise taxes for luxury homeowners and investment properties,
widening a four-year campaign to curb speculation after prices
in  Asia ’s second most expensive housing market rose to a record.
It also introduced new measures last month that included an
increase in the stamp duty for homebuyers by between 5
percentage points and 7 percentage points, with permanent
residents paying taxes when they buy their first home.  “2013 remains unpredictable on the global economic
front,” Chairman Kwek Leng Beng said in the statement. “The
group has already established some growth platforms and will
build upon them. We will focus on deriving more earnings from
overseas growth engines.”  The company, which is the biggest shareholder of  Millennium
& Copthorne Hotels Plc (MLC) , said its global hospitality operation
was a key contributor to its earnings.  City Developments’s  shares  rose 0.4 percent to S$11.17 at
the close of trading in Singapore, paring decline this year to
13 percent. The stock is the worst performer among 39 developers
and REITs on the Singapore property index.  Stock Correction  “The shares have already corrected a fair bit because of
the earlier measures,” said Vikrant Pandey, a Singapore-based
analyst at UOB Kay Hian Pte. “The market will be looking at the
outlook.”  City Developments said it sold 428 units or 84 percent of
its joint venture condominium project Echelon, located close to
the city’s downtown. It booked earnings from sales at
residential projects such as 368 Thomson and Buckley Classique
that were sold earlier, and said it has “limited” inventory.  Singapore’s home sales rose 43 percent in January from the
previous month as buyers rushed to purchase homes right after
the government announced cooling measures. Sales increased to
2,013 units from 1,410 units in December, according to data
released by the  Urban Redevelopment Authority . Sales reached a
record 22,699 units in 2012, according to Bloomberg calculation
based on the government data, which dates back to 1996.  ‘Some Headwind’  The company said it expects “some headwind” for the
residential market as investment sentiment in the luxury segment
may be affected by the curbs. Buying interest in the so-called
mass market projects may be “moderated” over the next few
months, it said.  For its office buildings, the occupancy rate of 94.5
percent was higher than the national average of 90.6 percent, it
said.  City Developments opened its 240-room W Singapore Sentosa
Cove hotel on Oct. 20. The developer also won a joint bid by its
unit, Intrepid Investments Pte and Hong Realty Pvt. to develop a
residential plot at Commonwealth Avenue. The joint venture
company paid S$562.8 million for the site, it said in a
statement earlier this month.  The hotel segment will be a “steady income generator” for
the group, it said, adding that it expects to remain profitable
in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in  Singapore  at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  