-- Clifford Chance, Linklaters, Dewey: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-02-28T12:24:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/clifford-chance-linklaters-dewey-orrick-business-of-law.html
Clifford Chance  LLP advised  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , the world’s largest supplier of liquefied
natural gas, on its agreement to buy LNG assets from  Repsol SA (REP) 
for $4.4 billion in cash to expand in  Latin America  and  Spain .
Linklaters LLP, with a team led by Madrid corporate partners
Alejandro Ortiz and Lara Hemzaoui and London projects partner
Matthew Hagopian, advised energy company Repsol.  The Clifford Chance team was led by London corporate
partner Kathy Honeywood. The team was supported in the U.S. by
partners Kate McCarthy, William Wallace and David Brinton.
Additional partners included John Wilkins, energy and
infrastructure; David Harkness, tax; Nigel Howarth, environment;
Chris Goodwill, employment; Oliver Bretz, antitrust; and Jose
Maria Fernandez-Daza, M&A/corporate.  Clifford Chance advised on all aspects of the transaction,
providing integrated English, Spanish,  New York  and Dutch law
advice as well as specialized antitrust, employment,
environmental and tax advice.  The deal, which helps the Spanish  oil company  avoid a
credit-rating downgrade to junk, gets Shell export capacity in
Peru as well as in  Trinidad and Tobago , The Hague-based company
said Feb. 26. Shell will take over financial leases and assume
debt, bringing the transaction’s total value to $6.7 billion.
Repsol’s Canaport terminal in  Canada , which imports gas into
North America, wasn’t sold.  Acquiring import and export terminals “will allow Shell to
realize trading synergies from its global portfolio,”  Oswald Clint , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said in a note.
For Repsol, the sale “ensures investment grade credit rating
and removes the risk of equity dilution due to a conversion of
preference shares,” he said.  The LNG asset sale was the centerpiece of Repsol’s plan to
preserve its credit ratings by selling 4.5 billion euros ($6
billion) of assets and take other measures, if necessary, such
as swapping preferred shares into convertible bonds.  For more, click here.  News  Dewey & LeBoeuf Wins Approval to Liquidate Remaining Assets  Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, after imploding last year in the
largest law firm bankruptcy, won confirmation of its plan to set
up trusts to liquidate its remaining assets.  More than $71 million will be returned to the estate by
participating former partners under the plan, an agreement
described as a “cornerstone” to the deal by restructuring
officer Jonathan Mitchell. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn in
New York approved confirmation of the plan during a hearing.  “This plan is a tribute to the partners coming together,”
Al Togut, Dewey’s chief bankruptcy lawyer, told Glenn during the
hearing. “Chapter 11 works best when its consensual and this
case is living proof that is right.”  Dewey filed for protection from creditors on May 28 marking
the biggest bankruptcy in the legal business. The firm, based in
New York, fell apart in a matter of weeks last year after
ousting its chairman and watching virtually all its partners
quit for competing firms.  The product of a 2007 merger between  Dewey Ballantine  and
LeBoeuf, Lamb, Green and MacRae, the firm at one point had more
than 1,300 attorneys in 12 countries.  At the outset of bankruptcy, there was secured debt of
about $225 million and accounts receivable of $217.4 million,
the firm said. The petition listed assets of $193 million and
liabilities of $245.4 million as of April 30.  The secured lenders and the unsecured creditors committee
reached an agreement that was based around the so-called partner
contribution plan, Mitchell testified. Without the partners
plan, Dewey’s liquidation would have little hope for success,
Mitchell said.  The plan agreement incorporates about 440 former partners.
Glenn approved a separate agreement with 76 retired partners who
will return a total of $490,000 to the estate, Togut said. The
group includes partners who had either retired in prior years or
left the firm before it went out of business.  Glenn also approved settlements with former partners of the
firm’s U.K.’s office, who agreed to return $900,000. Roughly
$650,000 of that amount will return to the U.S. estate.  The case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, 12-12321,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Firm News  Peter Haley Named Nelson Mullins Boston Managing Partner  Nelson Mullins Riley & Scarborough LLP named Peter J. Haley
managing partner of the Boston office, which has 56 attorneys
and government relations professionals.  Haley has been in practice for more than 20 years and has
experience with financial and corporate restructurings matters.
His practice includes both corporate and litigation matters.  Nelson Mullins opened its Boston office in 2006 with two
attorneys. The firm has more than 470 attorneys and government
relations professionals at 13 U.S. offices.  Moves  Jackson Lewis Hires Erisa Litigator in New Orleans  Jackson Lewis LLP hired benefits litigator Charles F.
Seemann III in the firm’s  New Orleans  office as partner. Seemann
was previously a member of the ERISA Litigation practice group
at Proskauer Rose LLP, the firm said.  Seemann’s primary area of practice is the defense of
complex ERISA fiduciary actions. He has experience defending
plan sponsors, plan fiduciaries, individual and institutional,
financial institutions, directed trustees, among others. He also
has experience as defense counsel in stock-option disputes and
executive compensation litigation; wage and hour advice and
litigation; and other matters, the firm said.  Jackson Lewis has 750 attorneys practicing in 52 locations
nationwide.  Withers Bergman Starts Pan-European Investment Funds Practice  Withers Bergman LLP hired investment management specialist
Matthew Feargrieve, previously of Appleby Global, who will
establish a pan- European investment funds practice from the
firm’s Zurich office.  Feargrieve advises fund managers, investors and private
clients on fund structuring and investment in public and private
investment products. He advises clients throughout  Europe ,
particularly  Switzerland  and the U.K., the firm said in a
statement.  Withers Bergman has more than 100 partners and more than
270 other lawyers, with 10 offices in the U.S., Europe, Asia and
the British Virgin Islands.  Davis Wright Hires Philip Albert for IP Practice  Philip Albert, an IP attorney from Kilpatrick Townsend &
Stockton LLP, joined the IP practice at Davis Wright Tremaine
LLP in San Francisco.  Albert advises clients on intellectual property matters
related to electronics, software, and business methods such as
computer-generated imagery, digital signal processing, e-
commerce technology, cryptology, and wired and wireless
networking and protocols, the firm said. He concentrates his
practice on patent prosecution and counseling.  Davis Wright Tremaine LLP has about 500 lawyers in none
offices in the U.S. and Shanghai.  Litigation  Argentina’s Default Threat Meets Skepticism at Appeals Court  Argentina ’s claim that a U.S. court can’t tie its
obligation to make defaulted bondholders whole to payments on
restructured debt faced skepticism from judges as a lawyer for
the country said it won’t obey orders to pay as much as $1.3
billion of defaulted sovereign debt.  Jonathan Blackman, a partner at  Cleary Gottlieb Steen &
Hamilton LLP  and the attorney for the South American nation,
said yesterday that Argentina would default on its restructured
debt if it’s forced by a three-judge appeals panel in New York
to pay holders of the defaulted debt.  “So the answer is you will not obey any order but the one
you propose?” U.S. Circuit Judge Reena Raggi asked Blackman
during more than two hours of arguments.  “We would not voluntarily obey such an order,” Blackman
said  Blackman claimed that a lower-court order obliging
Argentina to pay the defaulted bonds whenever it makes payments
on restructured debt violates its sovereignty, threatens to
trigger a new financial crisis and would quadruple the number of
Argentine bond cases in New York federal court, rather than
resolving them.  “If that’s the confrontation the court seeks with the
injunctions, that is the court’s decision,” Blackman said.
“We’re representing a government and governments will not be
told to do things that fundamentally violate their principles.”  A range of third parties with a stake in the outcome --
including the holders of Argentina’s restructured debt,
international payment intermediaries and banks, and the trustee
for the restructured bonds -- claim the lower-court’s actions
also threaten their interests.  Argentina says a ruling in the creditors’ favor would open
it up to more than $43 billion in additional claims it can’t
pay. The country defaulted on a record $95 billion in debt in
2001. Holders of about 91 percent of the bonds agreed to take
new exchange bonds in 2005 and 2010, at a deep discount.  The appeals panel heard arguments from both sides, as well
as from lawyers for the Exchange Bondholder’s Group, which
represents holders of the restructured debt, and for  Bank of New
York Mellon Corp. , the indenture trustee for the restructured
bonds. The court may not rule for weeks or months.  “Argentina cannot violate this injunction without
participation of the Bank of New York,”  Theodore Olson , of
Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP who is representing NML Capital, told
the judges. Holders of the defaulted debt are seeking “what
they are owed,” he said.  The holdout creditors are seeking to uphold rulings by
Griesa that require Argentina to pay them the full amount
they’re owed whenever it makes a required payment to the holders
of the exchange bonds. The Exchange Bondholder Group claims the
ruling improperly threatens their investment.  “We’re innocent parties,” attorney  David Boies , founder
of Boies Schiller & Flexner LLP, argued for the Exchange
Bondholder Group. “I represent people who did what they thought
was right. All I’m saying is what they did shouldn’t count
against them.”  Griesa’s order shouldn’t apply to restructured debt
holders, Boies told the panel. The court can’t hold them
hostage, he said.  The lower court case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of
Argentina, 08-06978, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan). The appeal is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic
of Argentina, 12-00105,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second
Circuit (New York).  For more, click here.  Ex-Mercury Lawyer Skaer Settles Options Backdating Suit With SEC  Former Mercury Interactive LLC General Counsel Susan Skaer
settled a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit
alleging she participated in improper backdating of company
stock options.  U.S. District Judge William Alsup in San Francisco said
yesterday in an order that he was told of the settlement and
postponed Skaer’s trial set for March 11 “to allow time for the
commission to approve the settlement.” Details of the accord
weren’t disclosed in the filing.  The SEC sued Skaer and other executives at  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ) ’s Mercury Interactive unit in 2007 alleging they
participated in a scheme to backdate employee stock options
without accounting for the resulting compensation expenses.
Alsup on Feb. 13 denied Skaer’s request to dismiss the claims
against her. Skaer is the only remaining defendant in the case.  Michael Torpey, of Orrick Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP,
Skaer’s lawyer, didn’t immediately respond to e-mail seeking
comment on the agreement. Alvin Williams, an SEC attorney,
declined to comment on it.  Amnon Landan, former chief executive officer of Mercury
Interactive, agreed to pay $4.5 million, including a $1 million
fine, to settle claims SEC claims against him in the backdating
case, according to a filing in the case last week.  The SEC has said more than 40 stock option grants at
Mercury Interactive were backdated from 1997 to 2002, and $258
million in compensation expenses weren’t reported to investors
as a result, according to court documents. Hewlett-Packard
 acquired  Mercury Interactive in 2006.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Mercury
Interactive LLC, 07-02822, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of California (San Francisco).  Video  Consultant: More Big Law Firms Will “Implode”  Bruce MacEwen, a law firm consultant and publisher at
AdamSmithEsq.com, tells Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia that “we
will see some more name brand [law] firms implode” in 2013. The
defunct New York law firm Dewey & LeBeouf, which dissolved in
2012, saw its bankruptcy plan approved by a Manhattan U.S.
Bankruptcy Court judge on Wednesday. It is the largest U.S. law
firm ever to go out of business, with more than 1,400 lawyers on
its staff at its peak. Dewey “didn’t do anything wrong that a
lot other firms don’t do, they just did all of them to an
extreme,” says MacEwen.  Click here for video link.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 