-- Colony Said to Lead Bidding for AEG as Guggenheim Exits
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-03-01T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/colony-said-to-lead-bidding-for-aeg-as-guggenheim-exits.html
Tom Barrack ’s  Colony Capital LLC  has
taken the lead in the auction for Anschutz Entertainment Group
after Guggenheim Partners LLC dropped out of the bidding, said
people familiar with the matter.  Los Angeles billionaire Patrick Soon-Shiong, who remains in
the auction, is unlikely to make an offer near the $8 billion
asking price of AEG’s owner,  Philip Anschutz , said one person,
who sought anonymity because the talks are private. Guggenheim,
which bought the Dodgers baseball team last year, may also
reconsider if the price drops, the person said.  Colony and its partner, Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund, are
also bidding below the asking price for Los Angeles-based AEG,
which owns Staples Center and London’s O2 Arena -- leaving open
the possibility of another offer topping theirs, the people
said. Anschutz also may not sell, the people said.  “We are not going to comment either on the identities of
bidding parties or values being proposed by bidders during the
sales process,” said Robert Siegfried, a spokesman for
Anschutz. “We are gratified by all of the interest being shown
in AEG, and at the conclusion of the process we will make the
appropriate announcement.”  Colony, which is investing in U.S. real estate, owns the
Miramax film library and Neverland Ranch, the former home of the
late pop star  Michael Jackson  near Santa Barbara, California.  Anschutz Co., AEG’s Denver-based parent, hired Blackstone
Advisory Partners to assist with the sale, the company said in a
Sept. 19 statement.  On Hold  The negotiations to sell AEG are on hold as Anschutz, 73,
recovers from back surgery, according to the people. He is worth
$10 billion, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  AEG also has interests in the Los Angeles Lakers NBA
basketball team, the Kings NHL hockey team, and the L.A. Galaxy
professional soccer team. The company is second in the concert
business to  Live Nation Entertainment Inc. (LYV)   Led by Chief Executive Officer  Tim Leiweke , AEG developed
L.A. Live, a hotel and entertainment complex adjacent to Staples
Center in downtown  Los Angeles . In London, the O2 is surrounded
by piazzas, bars and restaurants as well exhibition space.  AEG’s proposal to build a $1.2 billion NFL stadium next to
Staples Center received city council approval last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  