-- Conexant Files Bankruptcy After Negotiating Soros Sale
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2013-02-28T13:27:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/conexant-files-for-chapter-11-bankruptcy-protection.html
Conexant Systems Inc., a maker of
semiconductors, filed for bankruptcy after negotiating a
reorganization plan that involves the sale of the company in
exchange for secured debt to creditors including  George Soros .  The Newport Beach, California-based company listed assets
of $212.7 million and liabilities of about $250 million in
Chapter 11 papers filed today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Wilmington, Delaware.  “Unfortunately, a combination of declining revenue,
increasing costs and significant debt obligations has caught up
with Conexant,” Chief Executive Officer Sailesh Chittipeddi
said in court documents.  The company designs and sells microchip sets used for
computers and communications devices, and for audio, video,
security and imaging functions, according to the filing.  Among Conexant’s largest unsecured creditors listed in
court papers are  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) , owed $2.83 million, and
Silterra Malaysia, owed $1.98 million.  Conexant was acquired in April 2011 by Golden Gate Capital
Corp. for $282.2 million and plans to be sold to an affiliate of
 Soros Fund Management  LLC in exchange for debt.  Soros Fund Management, headed by the billionaire investor,
is a secured creditor holding $195 million in 11.25 percent
defaulted senior secured notes. Through the plan, subject to
court approval, the debt will be exchanged for new stock and a
$76 million unsecured note.  The company blamed bankruptcy on revenue that declined 30
percent in 2011. In addition, Conexant lost its main customer
when Kodak filed for bankruptcy. Revenue in 2012 was $135
million, according to a court filing.  A support agreement commits Soros and Golden Gate to court
approval of the plan. Soros will finance the bankruptcy with a
$15 million loan, court papers show.  The case is In re Conexant Systems Inc., 13-10367,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Rochelle in  New York  at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  