-- ConocoPhillips Says It May Fund Spending With Asset Sales
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2013-02-28T21:31:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/conocophillips-says-it-may-fund-spending-with-asset-sales.html
ConocoPhillips (COP) , the largest U.S.
independent oil and natural gas producer by market value, may
use cash, debt and asset sales to fund spending and dividends as
it waits for production to rise.  ConocoPhillips expects capital spending of about $16
billion a year from 2013 to 2017, according to presentation
 slides  for the company’s analyst meeting today. ConocoPhillips
spent more than $3 billion last year on its dividend, and the
company said today it’s targeting “consistent” dividend
increases.  ConocoPhillips, which plans spending that may outstrip its
cash flow, said its balance sheet provides flexibility as the
company looks to fund its growth program. The Houston-based
company ended 2012 with $4.4 billion in total cash. In 2013, the
company expects to get $9.6 billion from asset sales it has
announced.  “We got cash from operations, we got asset sales proceeds,
we got cash on the balance sheet already, and we got debt
capacity,” Chief Financial Officer Jeff Sheets said at the
meeting today. “So there really shouldn’t be any doubt that
through a series of price environments that we can fund the
capital and fund the dividend.”  Continuing Operations  Assets that will be part of continuing operations generated
a little less than $15 billion in  cash flow  last year, Sheets
said. The company’s investments will create $6 billion to $7
billion of cash flow in the future, he said. That means cash
flow may be about $22 billion by 2017 if prices are similar to
last year, Sheets said.  The company is seeking compound annual production and
margin growth of 3 percent to 5 percent in coming years. Output
may climb to about 1.9 million barrels of oil equivalent a day
in 2017, compared with about 1.5 million barrels a day from
continuing operations last year.  ConocoPhillips became an independent producer last year
with the spinoff of refining, chemical and pipeline businesses
to form a separate company known as Phillips 66. Independent  oil
companies  don’t have refineries or a chemical unit.  “We’re about running the business really well, we know how
to do it,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Ryan Lance said
in a telephone interview today. “We have a compelling dividend,
and the growth in production and margin is coming and we’re
focused on returns.”  ConocoPhillips also said it continues to look at possibly
reducing its stakes in Canadian oil-sands holdings and in the
Australia Pacific liquefied natural gas project, which this
month boosted cost estimates by 7 percent in Australian dollars.  ConocoPhillips fell 0.2 percent to $57.95 at the close in
 New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  