-- Constancio Says Barnier Plan Not Enough For Bank Failures
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-02-28T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/constancio-says-barnier-plan-not-enough-for-bank-failures.html
The European Union needs a plan for
cross-border bank failures that goes beyond financial services
Commissioner Michel Barnier’s proposed cooperation measures,
European Central Bank Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said.  Constancio called for a “true European resolution
authority” to provide temporary support when necessary, in
comments to the Centre for European Policy Studies in Brussels
yesterday. He said national regulators on their own can’t work
together enough to contain a major cross-border bank emergency.  “We need a European-level entity and fund that can deal
with those cases,” Constancio said. “If the solution would be
just coordination of national resolution authorities and a
network of national authorities, than it cannot really address
the cross-border question.”  Constancio was responding to comments Barnier made earlier
this week that common EU resolution funds are politically
unworkable. The Brussels-based commission will announce
proposals later this year for a European Resolution Authority,
which Barnier says should make use of national funds rather than
a central pot of money.  “We need to make proposals that will be accepted and we
know the reservations of countries such as  Germany ,” Barnier
said in a Feb. 26 Bloomberg Television interview.  To prevent a repeat of the sovereign debt and financial
crisis that has crippled  Europe  for the past three years, the EU
is working on a banking union to bolster financial stability and
prevent contagion between banks and states. Bank resolution is
the second part of the plan, following last year’s decision to
give the European Central Bank oversight powers.  Cost-Sharing  Barnier said the forthcoming resolution plans need to
acknowledge German reluctance to take on more cost-sharing of
backstops. Euro-area nations already contribute to a 500 billion
euro ($655 billion) firewall. Five of the currency bloc’s 17
countries have sought aid.  Fears of big bailout tabs from bank failures, and the
“mutualization of liabilities,” are overblown, Constancio said
yesterday. He said authorities can augment an industry-funded
backstop with temporary support for a so-called bridge bank, and
costs can be recovered from creditors afterwards.  As a precursor to the central resolution authority, the EU
has proposed a plan to standardize national deposit insurance
programs and to create a common approach for handling failing
banks. This interim legislation will call for nations to adopt
so-called bail-in rules for imposing losses on creditors of
failing banks.  Central Fund  Constancio said these rules need to be augmented by a
central fund, similar to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. in
the U.S., which can step in to manage the process of shutting
down a failing bank.  “Bailout of banks is for governments to do, if they wish
and can do it,” Constancio said. “Here it’s for resolution,
which means funding by the sector itself and then the pecking
order” of creditors who are in line to absorb losses.  “In the end, this does not imply any serious amount of
public money,” Constancio said.  ING Group Vice Chairman Koos Timmermans said banks may have
a tough time complying with complex capital and financing
requirements across their corporate structure in multiple
jurisdictions. At the same time, he said, regulatory
coordination may be difficult as long as individual governments
stay responsible for any bailout costs.  “As long as the local taxpayer pays, it is very difficult
to harmonize rules,” Timmermans said at the CEPS event
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  