-- Copper Swings Between Gains and Declines Amid Lack of Demand
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-02-28T11:13:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/copper-swings-between-gains-and-declines-amid-lack-of-demand.html
Copper swung between gains and drops
in  London , set for a second monthly slide in three, as investors
weighed better-than-expected U.S. economic figures against a
lack of physical demand. Aluminum fell for a ninth session.  U.S. orders for durable goods rose the most in a year in
January excluding transportation and pending home sales climbed
more than forecast, reports showed yesterday. Global copper
usage expanded 1 percent last year, below the 10-year average of
3 percent, according to Macquarie Group Ltd. Copper stockpiles
tracked by the London Metal Exchange swelled for a  fifth month .  “The U.S. is not a big swing factor in base-metals
demand,” said Guy Wolf, a macro strategist at Marex Spectron
Group in London. “It’s much more about  China . In base metals,
there’s been limited physical demand all year.”  Copper for delivery in three months slipped 0.1 percent to
$7,862 a metric ton by 10:58 a.m. on the LME after climbing as
much as 0.8 percent. Prices are down 3.7 percent this month.
Copper for May delivery rose 0.1 percent to $3.572 a pound on
the Comex in New York.  A report today may show the U.S. economy expanded at a
revised 0.5 percent annualized pace in the fourth quarter from
an initial 0.1 percent contraction, according to a Bloomberg
News survey. Still, the Federal Reserve will keep buying $85
billion of debt a month to stimulate the economy, Chairman Ben
S. Bernanke indicated this week.  “Markets are still vulnerable,” Wolf said. “The U.S. is
fine relative to the rest of the world, but that is probably
going to mean we’re going to see the dollar strengthen, which
tends to be negative for base metals.”  LME copper inventories gained 0.5 percent to 446,700 tons,
daily exchange figures showed, capping a 20 percent expansion in
February. Stocks have doubled since the end of September.  Zinc for delivery in three months fell 0.4 percent to
$2,070 a ton on the LME. The metal dropped 1 percent yesterday
after producer  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B)  and smelter Korea Zinc agreed
to higher processing fees, signaling a surplus of mined supply,
according to Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  Aluminum touched $1,997 a ton, the lowest price since Nov.
29, in London. Nickel and lead fell as tin rose.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  