-- Credit Suisse’s Mortgage-Bond Deal Shows Rating Firm Splits
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-02-28T17:33:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/credit-suisse-s-mortgage-bond-deal-shows-rating-firm-splits.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CS)  issued
securities tied to $425.7 million of new jumbo U.S. home loans
without government backing, in a transaction showing how rating
firms’ views are diverging as the market revives and the deals
offer more protections for lenders and investment banks.  Standard & Poor’s ,  Fitch Ratings  and DBRS Ltd. all assigned
top grades to the senior, $392.4 million slice of the deal, they
said in statements today and yesterday. S&P gave lower ratings
than Fitch to other classes, while DBRS didn’t offer any
additional grades.  DBRS saw the loss buffers of the junior-ranked debt as
insufficient “to assign the same ratings on those bonds as the
other rating agencies,” Quincy Tang, an analyst in  New York ,
said in an e-mail.  Ratings companies, after fueling the U.S. mortgage-credit
bubble that caused a global financial crisis, are now
confronting a market with accelerating issuance and lenders and
bond sponsors such as Credit Suisse and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
that are seeking safer contracts for themselves. The split
grades on some of the Credit Suisse bonds signal rating firms
may also be varying their approaches to the relative risk
implied by the different grades, further reducing their
comparability.  Drew Benson, a spokesman in New York for Credit Suisse,
declined to comment on the deal.  So-called non-agency mortgage bond offerings completed so
far this year have packaged about $1.5 billion of new loans,
compared with $3.5 billion in all of last year and a total of
less than $1 billion in 2010 and 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Financial Strength  The top-rated bonds in the Credit Suisse deal carry a loss
buffer of 7.05 percent. The so-called credit enhancement,
created by other classes of securities that are first in line
for losses, was increased from 6.75 percent when the debt was
first marketed earlier last month, potentially reducing Credit
Suisse’s profits on the transaction.  DBRS said today in a report that the transaction’s risks
included the weak financial strength of some of the lenders that
made the loans, originators that would be required to buy them
back if the debt’s quality proves to have been misrepresented.  The deal was also weakened by the nature of promises by
Credit Suisse to repurchase the debt if those originators fail,
as well as the fact that there was a “relatively large portion
of self-employed borrowers” at 24.5 percent, DBRS said.  Still, the mortgages generally have “high-quality credit
attributes,” such as big down payments, DBRS said.  Fitch Concerned  Fitch released a report on Feb. 20 saying it was concerned
with changes to mortgage-securitization contracts being sought
by issuers looking to protect themselves against forced
repurchases of misrepresented debt. For the Credit Suisse deal,
Fitch said yesterday it accounted for “weaker” representations
and warranties as part of its analysis, without explaining how.  Fitch assigned a grade of AA, its third highest, to an $8.7
million class of the securitization with the second-highest
seniority. S&P said yesterday in a statement that it assigned
that debt a rating of A, its sixth highest. S&P granted lower or
no rankings to an additional $11.3 million of debt that Fitch
offered investment grades.  S&P cited the deal’s representation and warranties as a
weakness, along with a geographic concentration of loans in
certain California areas. It also said the mortgages were high
quality.  ‘Conditional’ Backstop  While the deal contained some “notable” improvement to
its repurchase covenants over a November deal by Credit Suisse,
Fitch said it also allows the bank’s backstop on lenders’
promises to buy back faulty loans to lapse after 36 months and
be “conditional” in some ways.  The transaction also doesn’t have an “automatic breach
review trigger,” Fitch said. Deals by  Redwood Trust Inc. (RWT) , the
only other issuer in the market since it revived in 2010, have
required reviews of any loans that go more than 120 days
delinquent, though in certain cases only Redwood can then demand
repurchases by lenders, according to its offering documents.  In the Credit Suisse deal, “senior and subordinate
investors can direct the trustee to initiate loan reviews and
enforce put-back rights,” Fitch said.  Moody’s Investors Service said in a Feb. 25 report that it
won’t assign its top ratings to bonds with “significant”
limits on when and how mortgage repurchases can be forced.  Credit Suisse planned to team with  Two Harbors Investment
Corp. (TWO)  on the securitization, people familiar with the matter
said this month, asking to not be named because the transaction
is private. The real-estate investment trust was set to buy
junior-ranked debt and provide some of the underlying loans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  