-- Credit Suisse Issues $426 Million of Jumbo-Mortgage Bond Deal
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-02-28T14:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/credit-suisse-issues-426-million-of-jumbo-mortgage-bond-deal.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  issued
securities tied to $425.7 million of new jumbo U.S. home loans
without government backing, its first sale of the type of debt
this year, according to  Fitch Ratings .  The credit grader assigned top ratings to $393.4 million of
bonds, which had a loss buffer of 7.05 percent, New York-based
Fitch said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The so-called
credit enhancement, created by other classes of securities that
are first in line for losses, was increased from 6.75 percent
when the debt was first marketed earlier this month.  Credit Suisse had been considering increasing the cushion,
potentially reducing its profits on the transaction, to win
ratings from Fitch along with Standard & Poor’s and DBRS Ltd.,
Dow Jones Newswires reported earlier.  Fitch released a report on Feb. 20 saying it was concerned
with changes to mortgage-securitization contracts being sought
by issuers looking to protect themselves against forced
repurchases of misrepresented debt. For the Credit Suisse deal,
Fitch said yesterday it accounted for “weaker” representations
and warranties as part of its analysis, without explaining how.  While the deal contained some “notable” improvement to
such terms over a November deal by Credit Suisse, it also allows
the bank’s backstop on lenders’ promises to buy back faulty
loans to lapse after 36 months and be “conditional” in some
ways, Fitch said. Credit Suisse’s obligations would cover
investors if the lenders collapse.  No Trigger  The transaction also doesn’t have an “automatic breach
review trigger,” Fitch said. Deals by  Redwood Trust Inc. (RWT) , the
only other issuer in the market since it revived in 2010, have
required reviews of any loans that go more than 120 days
delinquent, though in certain cases only Redwood can then demand
repurchases by lenders, according to its offering documents.  In the Credit Suisse deal, “senior and subordinate
investors can direct the trustee to initiate loan reviews and
enforce put-back rights,” Fitch said.  Credit Suisse planned to team with  Two Harbors Investment
Corp. (TWO)  on the securitization, people familiar with the matter
said this month, asking to not be named because the transaction
is private. The real-estate investment trust was set to buy
junior-ranked debt and provide some of the underlying loans.  Drew Benson, a spokesman in  New York  for Credit Suisse,
declined to comment on the deal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  