-- Croat GDP Falls for Fifth Quarter on Consumption, Investment
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2013-02-28T11:26:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/croatian-gdp-falls-for-fifth-quarter-on-consumption-investments.html
Croatia ’s economy contracted for a
fifth quarter as personal consumption, investment and industrial
production declined because of  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Gross domestic product fell 2.3 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, the  statistics office  in Zagreb
said today in a preliminary estimate. The economy shrank 2
percent last year, after stagnating in 2011 and contracting in
the two previous years.  The Adriatic Sea nation, which is preparing to become the
European Union’s 28th member in July 2013, is struggling to
emerge from a renewed recession. Industrial output declined 5.6
percent in December from a year ago, while retail trade in the
same month fell 6.1 percent.  “Negative trends in industrial production, retail trade
and unemployment continued to hurt the economy,” Zdeslav Santic, the chief economist at Soc-Gen Splitska Banka d.d., said
by phone before the data release. “This year we can expect a
further decrease in personal consumption and capital investment,
with possibly only growth in net exports.”  Croatia reduced its 2013 growth forecast on Feb. 20 to a
0.7 percent growth, from an earlier estimate of 1.8 percent
growth, citing an investment drought. The one-year-old Cabinet
of Prime Minister  Zoran Milanovic  wants to attract investors
with 8 billion kuna ($1.3 billion) from EU funds and
reconstruction banks for infrastructure and energy projects.  IMF Forecast  The  International Monetary Fund  said Jan. 21 that Croatia’s
economy will stagnate this year. It urged the government to
remove barriers to investment and employment in order to return
to growth. The  European Commission  said Feb. 22 that the economy
will contract 0.4 percent this year, before returning to
“modest growth” in 2014.  “For this year, we expect stagnation, and this forecast is
weighted by negative risks regarding personal consumption and
investments,” Alen Kovac, a chief economist at Erste Banka d.d.
in Zagreb, a unit of  Austria ’s  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , said by
phone. “The EU entry will not have a big effect in the near
term, except perhaps psychologically, while structural reforms
remain the key issue for restarting economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  