-- Crude Declines as U.S. Economy Grows Less Than Expected
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-02-28T22:50:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/crude-fluctuates-as-u-s-economy-grows-less-than-expected.html
West Texas Intermediate settled at
the lowest level this year as the  U.S. economy  grew less than
economists forecast and the euro weakened against the dollar.
Prices fell 5.6 percent in February.  Futures extended the first monthly drop since October as
the Commerce Department reported that gross domestic product
grew at a 0.1 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter. The
median forecast called for a 0.5 percent gain in a Bloomberg
survey. The euro headed for the first monthly drop against the
dollar since July, reducing oil’s appeal as an investment
alternative.  “We know the economy is not running on all cylinders and
it’s going to impact oil demand,” said Tariq Zahir, a  New York- 
based commodity fund manager at Tyche Capital Advisors. “The
dollar is quite strong and it’s adding pressure to oil. Today is
the end of month and a lot of guys are taking profit. It’s not
surprising to have a risk-off day.”  WTI for April delivery dropped 71 cents, or 0.8 percent, to
$92.05 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, the lowest
settlement since Dec. 31. Trading was 16 percent below the 100-
day average for the time of day at 5:48 p.m.  Brent for April settlement dropped 49 cents, or 0.4
percent, to end at $111.38 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. Volume was 23 percent above the 100-day
average. The European benchmark crude’s premium over WTI widened
to $19.33.  GDP Revision  The fourth-quarter GDP was revised up from a previously
estimated 0.1 percent drop. Economists’ projections ranged from
a 0.1 percent drop to a gain of 1 percent.  “The GDP revision is barely positive and is a little
disappointing,” said Jacob Correll, a Louisville, Kentucky-
based analyst at Summit Energy Inc., which manages more than $20
billion in companies’ annual energy spending. “But still, we
are going in the right direction.”  For all of 2012, the economy expanded 2.2 percent after a
1.8 percent increase in the prior year, the Commerce Department
said. Federal military outlays declined last quarter at a 22
percent annual pace, the biggest decrease since 1972.  Across-the-board federal spending reductions, known as
sequestration, are set to begin tomorrow. Unless they’re
averted, the automatic cuts would total $85 billion in the final
seven months of this fiscal year and $1.2 trillion over nine
years. About half would come from defense and the rest from
discretionary domestic spending.  ‘Negative Sentiment’  “The GDP number is adding some negative sentiment to the
market ” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at
Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The fear is that
GDP growth is going to get even worse after the sequester.”  The  International Monetary Fund  will lower its growth
forecast for the U.S. because of the sequestration,  William Murray , an IMF spokesman, told reporters in  Washington  today.  The U.S., the world’s biggest consumer, will use 18.65
million barrels of oil a day this year, the Energy Information
Administration, the Energy Department’s statistical arm,
forecast in a monthly report on Feb. 12. That’s down from 18.71
million the agency forecast in January.  Crude supplies climbed  1.1 million barrels  last week to
377.5 million, the most since July 20, the EIA reported
yesterday. The gain was the sixth in a row.  Rising Supplies  “It’s hard to be bullish about oil in the months ahead,”
said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy & Economic
Research in Winchester,  Massachusetts . “Rising inventories and
high production levels are keeping are putting downward pressure
on prices.”  OPEC  crude output rose for the first time in six months as
rising Libyan production outpaced a cut by  Saudi Arabia , which
has implemented a program aimed at curbing excess supply and
supporting prices, a Bloomberg survey showed.  The dollar strengthened as much as 0.6 percent to $1.3058
per euro. European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said at
an event in Munich late yesterday that the bank has no intention
of tightening monetary policy anytime soon. The  Dollar Index (DXY) ,
which averages the exchange rates against other major
currencies, rose as much as 0.4 percent.  Oil gained earlier after the Labor Department reported
jobless claims decreased 22,000 to 344,000 in the week ended
Feb. 23. The  median  forecast of 44 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for 360,000 applications. The number of people
collecting  unemployment insurance  dropped to the lowest level
since June 2008.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 408,863
contracts as of 5:49 p.m. It totaled 451,491 contracts
yesterday, 15 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.66 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  