-- Deal to Raise U.S. Revenue on Foreign Income Gets Closer
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-02-28T18:45:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/deal-to-raise-u-s-revenue-on-foreign-income-gets-closer.html
Lawmakers are starting to see the
outlines of a bipartisan agreement on how to tax the income that
U.S.-based corporations earn outside the country.  Such a system would make it easier for U.S. companies to
bring home foreign income that has been taxed elsewhere while
preventing profits booked in low-tax or no-tax jurisdictions
from receiving the same benefit.  A deadlock-breaking agreement would respond to companies
including  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)  that
have lobbied for change and complain that the U.S. tax code
hurts their ability to compete globally. Under the current
system, fewer than 100 companies have stockpiled more than $1.2
trillion in untaxed profits outside the U.S.  “There has been a lot of thinking and work done on these
issues over the last couple of years, and I do think that has
brought the parties closer together,” said Michael Mundaca, who
was a senior Treasury Department tax official in the
administrations of Presidents George W. Bush and  Barack Obama .  The potential framework is conceptual, not the product of
negotiations or the detailed bill-writing that would need to
occur. An agreement on international taxation would probably
happen only as part of a broader rewrite of the tax code. That
is months if not years away and locked in a partisan dispute
over how much revenue the government should collect.  Jacob J. Lew, sworn in today as Treasury secretary, told
senators during his confirmation process that he saw the
potential for agreement on international taxation.  ‘Common Ground’  “There is considerable debate as to how to reform the
international tax system,” Lew wrote in response to a question
from Senator Orrin Hatch of  Utah , the panel’s top Republican.
“But I believe that there is common ground on this subject,
including a mutual concern about preserving the U.S. tax base by
reducing incentives that encourage the shifting of investment
and income overseas.”  Senate Finance Committee members Rob Portman and Ron Wyden
both said in interviews this week that they see room for a
potential compromise.  Through meetings with Lew, who earlier served as White
House chief of staff and head of the Office of Management and
Budget, and his predecessor at Treasury, Timothy F. Geithner,
Portman said he has seen more acceptance by the Obama
administration of the current system’s disadvantages for U.S.
companies. Portman, an Ohio Republican, said lawmakers could
agree on a system that exempts foreign income along with rules
that prevent companies from shifting profits outside the U.S.  ‘Growing Consensus’  “You can do that,” he said in an interview. “Other
countries have done it, so I think there’s a growing consensus
around this.”  The debate is between what tax analysts call worldwide tax
systems and territorial tax systems.  The U.S. system is nominally worldwide, meaning that
companies with U.S. headquarters owe taxes on all of the income
they earn around the world. They can receive credits for taxes
paid to foreign governments and can defer U.S. taxation until
they bring the money home.  That system gives U.S. companies an incentive to shift
profits outside the country and park them there, a trend that
has accelerated as companies expand their markets overseas.  General Electric  “We believe the U.S. tax system needs to be reformed to
close loopholes, to lower the corporate rate and to provide a
territorial system like virtually all other major industrialized
countries,” GE spokesman Seth Martin said in a statement.
“American companies need to be able to compete on a level
playing field with their foreign competitors.”  GE has  $108 billion  outside the U.S., the most of any U.S.-
based company, according to its Feb. 26 regulatory filing.
Companies are required to disclose their untaxed profits
annually.  The cash buildup has created pressure on companies such as
Apple Inc. and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  to seek legislative changes or
find more productive uses for the money. They have failed to
persuade Congress to repeat a 2004 tax holiday on offshore
profits.  Cisco, which had $41.3 billion in untaxed profits outside
the U.S. as of July 28, 2012, will continue making investments
in  Canada  and other countries, said John Chambers, the company’s
chairman and chief executive officer.  “We are assuming that we’re not going to get much help
from Washington,” he said on Bloomberg Television Feb. 14. “We
just ask them not to hurt us too much, and we’re going to go
ahead and put our money to use based upon tax policy.”  Territorial System  In comparison with the U.S., most other industrialized
countries operate under a so-called territorial system, which
exempts all or almost all foreign income from home-country
taxation. The U.K. and  Japan  have switched to territorial
systems in the past few years.  Judging by the rhetoric, the gap between the administration
and congressional Republicans on this issue remains wide.  Obama campaigned -- and won -- twice on curbing tax breaks
that he says encourage U.S. companies to ship jobs overseas,
signaling his intent to preserve the worldwide system. Each of
his proposed annual budgets has called for limits on companies’
ability to defer U.S. taxation.  Other Democrats, such as Senator Carl Levin of Michigan,
have proposed even tougher limits.  What’s changed in the past few months is the
administration’s engagement with business groups and
Republicans’ insistence on measures to prevent companies from
shifting profits outside the U.S.  Administration’s Position  The administration’s statements have expressed its
opposition to a “pure territorial system” -- allowing Obama to
stake out a position without actually criticizing the Republican
congressional proposals.  Drafts from Representative Dave Camp of  Michigan  and
Senator Mike Enzi of  Wyoming , both Republicans, include rules to
limit companies’ ability to book their U.S. profits in low-tax
jurisdictions to benefit from the territorial system.  The administration has been helpful because it “has not
put any lines in the sand with respect to anything that has been
proposed so far,” said Mundaca, who left Treasury in 2011 and
is now a co-leader of national tax at Ernst & Young LLP in
Washington.  One of Camp’s options is a form of the global minimum tax
that the administration has suggested. Another option would
apply only to income earned from intangibles such as patents,
providing incentives for locating them in the U.S. and penalties
for holding them in low-tax countries.  Encouraging Investment  Those approaches are compatible with Obama’s goals of
limiting profit-shifting and encouraging investment in the U.S.,
Mundaca said.  The resulting hybrid system, Wyden said in an interview,
could be called “territorial without the gaming.” His plan for
a worldwide system would lower the 35 percent U.S. corporate
rate and tax all income earned around the world as it is earned.  Wyden, an Oregon Democrat, said he recognized the
difficulty of drafting such a compromise.  “There’s never been a piece of legislation that talented
tax lawyers can’t get around,” he said.  Camp, the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee,
told reporters Feb. 26 that he expected to talk with Lew after
his confirmation.  A hybrid system with limits on bringing home low-taxed
income could hurt technology and pharmaceutical companies that
have shifted intellectual property to low-tax countries.
Companies with low effective tax rates have been urging Camp to
soften his proposals.  Enzi said he agreed with Lew that there was room for common
ground even though he hasn’t seen movement by the administration
toward a territorial system.  “You’ve got to get into the discussion first, and we
haven’t had that,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  