-- Dennis Rodman Tells North Korea’s Kim He Will Be Friend for Life
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-03-01T00:29:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/dennis-rodman-tells-north-korea-s-kim-he-will-be-friend-for-life.html
Dennis Rodman, the basketball Hall
of Famer who once wore a wedding gown to promote his
autobiography, told North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, “You have
a friend for life,” after an exhibition game in the communist
nation, according to organizers.  Rodman is touring the country with members of the Harlem
Globetrotters and sat alongside Kim during yesterday’s game in
Pyongyang, according to VICE, the  Brooklyn , New York-based youth
media company coordinating the cultural exchange mission for a
television series that will air on the Home Box Office Inc.
network.  The tour comes amid escalating tensions with neighboring
countries and the U.S. after  North Korea  conducted a nuclear
test last month.  Rodman, who won five National Basketball Association
championships and was inducted into the  Basketball Hall of Fame 
in 2011, arrived in North Korea three days ago with Globetrotter
players Bull Bullard, Buckets Blakes and Moose Weekes.  Rodman didn’t participate in yesterday’s game, which
featured the Globetrotter players split between the two teams
that played to a 110-110 tie. He sat next to Kim at a courtside
table during the game and the delegation met with Kim for dinner
afterward, organizers said in a statement.  Respects Paid  Rodman’s party also visited the Kumsusan Palace of the Sun
to pay respects before the statues of Kim’s grandfather and
father, the official Korean Central News Agency said yesterday.  “They entered the halls where  Kim Il Sung  and  Kim Jong Il 
lie in state and paid homage to them,” KCNA said. “They made
an entry in the visitor’s book.”  Rodman, 51, is a seven-time NBA rebounding champion who’s
known for his tattoos, multicolored hair, piercings and
outlandish behavior, such as competing in professional wrestling
events.  “We here at VICE are very pleased that Kim Jong Un could
make it to the game and that everyone enjoyed themselves so
much,” VICE founder Shane Smith said in the statement. “To see
everyone letting their hair down and getting into the match made
it all the more worthwhile.”  The week-long trip includes exhibition games and a
basketball camp for North Korean children, events that tour
organizers said are meant to “encourage openness and better
relations with the outside world.” The group is accompanied by
a production crew that is filming for the HBO series “VICE,”
which will premiere in April.  North Korea is the 122nd country or territory visited by
members of the Globetrotters, the 87-year-old basketball
entertainment troupe whose last trip outside the U.S. was to
 Afghanistan  in November and December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  