-- Depa Soars as Arabtec Plans Signal Purchase to EFG: Dubai Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-02-28T10:35:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/depa-soars-as-arabtec-plans-signal-purchase-to-efg-dubai-mover.html
Depa Ltd. (DEPA)  soared the most in more
than three months after EFG-Hermes Holding SAE said the Dubai-
based interior designer may be taken over by  Arabtec Holding Co. (ARTC)   Shares of Depa, which fitted out the world’s tallest tower
in Dubai, jumped 11 percent, the most since Nov. 21, to 39 cents
at the close in Dubai. Trading was at nine times the three-month
daily average, at  983,009 shares . Arabtec, which bought a 24
percent of Depa in November at a 47 percent premium, may raise
its stake to 100 percent, Cairo-based EFG-Hermes analysts Jan Pawel Hasman and Shaza El Kady said in a report yesterday.  Arabtec said yesterday it plans to raise 6.4 billion
dirhams ($1.74 billion) through a rights issue and convertible
bonds after the biggest publicly traded United Arab Emirates
builder named Hasan Ismaik as its new chief executive officer.
The move “could hint at a major shift in Arabtec’s strategy,
followed by potential local and regional acquisitions,”
according to EFG-Hermes.  The purchase would give Arabtec control of a company that
fits out luxury hotels, yachts and apartments, and may boost the
value of Depa, whose price estimate was raised by 50 percent to
60 cents by EFG-Hermes. Arabtec would need to start a mandatory
offer and the bid may be much higher than Depa’s 35-cent closing
price yesterday or the 44 cents per share Arabtec paid for its
existing stake, according to the Cairo-based investment bank.  Arabtec, which mainly builds homes and offices, is poised
to benefit from additional awards from Abu Dhabi government,
according to EFG-Hermes. The builder won large projects in the
U.A.E. capital in the past year, including construction of a
branch of the Louvre museum and the midfield terminal at Abu
Dhabi airport. Its shares tumbled 9.8 percent today.  Three analysts  recommend investors hold the shares of Depa,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company may post a
loss of $27 million for 2012, according to the  median estimate 
of four analysts on Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  