-- Deutsche Telekom Says EE’s IPO Is for Late 2013 at Earliest
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-02-28T15:20:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/deutsche-telekom-earnings-miss-estimates-on-u-s-german-costs.html
An initial public offering of EE,
the largest U.K. wireless carrier, will happen in the fourth
quarter at the earliest and only involve a minority stake, co-
owner  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  said.  “If we are to have an orderly, solid preparation, then the
fourth quarter is the first in which we can think about it,”
Timotheus Hoettges, the chief financial officer of the Bonn-
based operator, told reporters today. “But we’re under no time
pressure. It depends on market conditions.”  France Telecom SA (FTE) , which owns the other 50 percent of EE,
has set a similar timeframe, CFO Gervais Pellissier said in
December. EE, which was formed in 2009 from a combination of the
Orange and T-Mobile brands and has a head start in offering
faster wireless connections, has also attracted interest from
private-equity firms,  France  Telecom has said. EE may be valued
at 7 billion pounds ($10.6 billion) to 7.7 billion pounds,
according to estimates by Raymond James Euro Equities analysts
in November.  “Our destination is an IPO -- that’s the way of bringing
additional value out of  England  and to Germany and France,”
said Hoettges, who is set to take over as Deutsche Telekom’s CEO
at the end of this year. He wouldn’t out a sale to private-
equity firms. “We have at the moment very high interest from
the market.”  Earnings Miss  The value of IPOs announced in  Europe  totaled 18.6 billion
euros over the past 12 months, down from 40.2 billion euros in
the year-earlier period, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “We want to stay in this business, we want to stay in the
market, and we also want to retain our dominance, our majority
in England,” he said.  Deutsche Telekom today reported fourth-quarter earnings
before some items that missed analysts’ estimates because of
higher spending to add customers in  Germany  and retain mobile-
phone subscriptions in the U.S.  Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization fell 13 percent to 4.03 billion euros, compared
with the 4.16 billion-euro average of analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Revenue slipped 1.4 percent to 14.7 billion euros,
exceeding projections.  ‘Breathing Space’  Deutsche Telekom in December became Europe’s most recent
major former phone monopoly to cut its dividend forecast,
allowing the carrier to conserve cash for upgrading networks in
Europe and the U.S. With revenue shrinking for a third
consecutive year in 2012, the owner of the T-Mobile brand is
working on completing a merger of its U.S. division with
 MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS)  to regain market share lost to
leaders Verizon Wireless and  AT&T Inc. (T)   “They had some breathing space to reach their full-year
guidance, so they invested a bit more in marketing than
necessary,” said Wolfgang Specht, an analyst at Bankhaus Lampe
in Dusseldorf, Germany, who recommends selling the stock.  Shares of Deutsche Telekom slipped 0.6 percent to 8.18
euros at 4:10 p.m. in  Frankfurt , valuing the carrier at 35.4
billion euros. The company’s net debt fell 8 percent to 36.9
billion euros in 2012.  Fourth-quarter net income was 793 million euros, topping
analysts’ estimates. The company recorded 360 million euros in
impairment charges, citing tougher competition and regulation in
 Austria  and lower tariffs in  Bulgaria .  Spain, Austria  Spain’s  Telefonica SA (TEF) , which competes with Deutsche Telekom
in markets including Germany, the U.K. and the Czech Republic,
reported fourth-quarter earnings today that met analysts’
estimates as sales growth in Latin America helped to offset
revenue declines in its domestic market.  Telekom Austria AG (TKA) ,
which competes with T-Mobile in Austria, reported a fourth-
quarter net loss.  T-Mobile USA had net losses of 515,000 contract customers
last quarter, exceeding an estimate of 370,000 losses. Even
including 145 million euros of revenue gains from a stronger
dollar, adjusted Ebitda at the division fell 23 percent to 805
million euros as the company ramped up marketing and network
investments.  MetroPCS shareholders are set to vote March 28 on the
proposed merger with T-Mobile. Deutsche Telekom’s earlier
attempt to sell T-Mobile to AT&T failed because of regulatory
opposition. T-Mobile plans to start offering faster wireless
services based on the so-called long-term evolution technology
by the end of the quarter, the unit’s chief technology officer,
Neville Ray, said in an interview yesterday.  Deutsche Telekom is also reviewing the future of its
online-classifieds unit Scout24 Holding GmbH. The process is
“open-ended” and there are no talks with publisher  Axel
Springer AG (SPR)  the moment about a sale, Hoettges said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Bonn at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  