-- Deutsche Telekom Says EE to Have IPO in Late 2013 at Earliest
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-02-28T12:03:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/deutsche-telekom-says-ee-to-have-ipo-in-late-2013-at-earliest.html
An initial public offering of EE,
the largest U.K. wireless carrier, will happen in the fourth
quarter at the earliest and only involve a minority stake, co-
owner  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  said.  “If we are to have an orderly, solid preparation, then the
fourth quarter is the first in which we can think about it,”
Timotheus Hoettges, the chief financial officer of the Bonn-
based operator, told reporters today. “But we’re under no time
pressure. It depends on market conditions.”  France Telecom SA (FTE) , who owns the other 50 percent of EE, set
a similar timeframe for the process, CFO Gervais Pellissier said
in December. EE, which was formed in 2009 as a combination of
the Orange and T-Mobile brands and has a head start in offering
faster wireless connections, has also attracted interest from
private-equity firms,  France Telecom  has said.  “Our destination is an IPO -- that’s the way of bringing
additional value out of  England  and to Germany and France,”
Hoettges, who is set to take over as CEO after this year, said,
declining to rule out a sale to private-equity firms. “We have
at the moment very high interest from the market.”  The value of IPOs announced in  Europe  totaled 18.6 billion
euros over the past 12 months, down from 40.2 billion euros in
the year-earlier period, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “We want to stay in this business, we want to stay in the
market, and we also want to retain our dominance, our majority
in England,” he said.  Deutsche Telekom is also reviewing the future of its
online-classifieds unit Scout24 Holding GmbH. The process is
“open-ended” and there are no talks with publisher  Axel
Springer AG (SPR)  the moment about a sale, Hoettges said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  