-- Disappearing Dollars Compound Default Threat: Argentina Credit
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2013-02-28T20:58:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/disappearing-dollars-compound-default-threat-argentina-credit.html
Argentina’s  cash hoard  is falling at
the fastest pace since 2006, depriving the government of the
dollars its needs to pay bondholders as depositors rush to yank
money from their savings.  Central bank  reserves  fell $1.6 billion this year to a
five-year low of $41.7 billion as investors await a U.S. court
ruling on whether the nation has to pay $1.3 billion to holdout
creditors left over from its 2001 default. The extra yield
investors demand to hold Argentine debt instead of U.S
Treasuries jumped 2.66 percentage points to 12.57 percentage
points this year, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. That’s more
than six times the premium that Brazil and Mexico pay.  Argentina told an appeals court yesterday that it won’t
voluntarily comply with rulings that might force it to pay the
holdouts and a decision in favor of the creditors would open it
up to more than $43 billion in additional claims. Reserves that
the country uses to pay foreign debt have tumbled as depositors
pulled almost half their dollars from banks in the past 16
months on concern  Argentina  will seize their savings and convert
them into pesos, according to Maximiliano Castillo, a former
manager at the central bank.  “The situation has started to become critical, the level
of reserves is worrisome.” said Aldo Pignanelli, a former
central bank president. “I don’t think the government has a
clear idea on how to stem this hemorrhaging.”  New Crisis  The central bank declined to comment on the drop in
reserves and outlook for the rest of the year.  Jonathan Blackman, a lawyer for the South American nation,
yesterday challenged a lower-court order that obliges Argentina
to pay the defaulted bonds whenever it makes payments on
restructured debt. The order violates Argentina’s sovereignty,
exposes it to the possibility of a new financial crisis and
threatens efforts by other countries to restructure overwhelming
sovereign debt, Blackman told the three-judge panel.  Argentina “won’t voluntarily comply” with the rulings if
the appeals court upholds them, Blackman said. “If that’s the
confrontation the court seeks with the injunctions, that is the
court’s decision.”  The yield on Argentina’s 2017 bonds issued under  New York 
law during the 2010 restructuring surged 4.02 percentage points
to 19.72 percent at 3:54 p.m. in New York, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The price fell 9.62 cents, the most since
Oct. 26, to 69.37 cents on the dollar.  Deposits Decline  The government has tapped more than $30 billion to pay debt
since 2010, according to central bank President Mercedes Marco
del Pont. Fernandez has earmarked $8 billion for the same
purpose this year, according to the 2013 budget.  Pignanelli, now a director of Buenos Aires-based research
company Saver, said he expects reserves to fall to less than $40
billion by the end of this year.  Dollar bank deposits fell to a four-year low of $7.6
billion on Feb. 8, accounting for 16 percent of central bank
reserves, according to latest data from the monetary authority.
When Fernandez was re-elected in October 2011, the deposits
stood at $14.8 billion, or 31 percent of reserves.  “The drop in deposits hasn’t stopped, and reflects savers’
lack of confidence,” Castillo, who now runs economic research
company ACM Consultores, said in a telephone interview from
Buenos Aires. Reserves also suffered from a narrowing of
January’s trade surplus to $280 million from $550 million a year
earlier, said Castillo.  Wheat Exports  Savers are concerned they may see a repeat of 2002, when
then-President  Eduardo Duhalde  converted dollar deposits into
pesos, which weakened as much as 70 percent against the U.S.
currency that year.  The drop in the January trade surplus in part resulted from
a decline in wheat exports. The recently harvested crop fell to
9.4 million tons from 14.5 million tons the previous season,
according to the  Agriculture Ministry .  As a result, this year’s exports of the cereal will drop to
$700 million from $2.5 billion in 2012, according to Juan Rey
Kelly, an economist at the Argentine Rural Confederation, a
Buenos Aires-based farm association.  Still, a bumper harvest of soybeans, the country’s main
generator of export revenue, should cause reserves to rise as
the crop is gathered and processed over coming months, said
Hernan Lacunza, a former general manager at the central bank.  ‘Reverse Trend’  The world’s third-biggest exporter of the oilseed will
produce 48 million tons this year, compared with last season’s
40.5 million tons, according to the  Rosario Grains Exchange .  Exports of soybeans and their products “will allow the
central bank to reverse the trend between April and August and
start accumulating reserves,” said Lacunza, who now runs
Empiria Consultores in  Buenos Aires . “The country may end with
reserves for about $45 billion by year end.”  The price of credit-default swaps to insure $10 million of
Argentine government debt against default for five years has
surged 1,715 basis points this year to 3,157 basis points. The
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  The peso, which fell 13.6 percent over the past 12 months,
weakened 0.1 percent to 5.0453 per dollar.  Warrants tied to Argentina’s gross domestic product, issued
as part of the country’s 2005 debt restructuring, fell 8.56
percent to 5.28 cents.  Currency Controls  Since being re-elected in October 2011, Fernandez has
imposed currency controls, including a ban on most dollar
purchases, to stop money leaving the country.  While her measures caused capital outflows to drop to $3.4
billion in 2012 from $21.5 billion a year earlier, savers will
continue to seek dollars as long as the government relies on the
central bank to pay debt and fund spending, said Castillo.  Investors pay more than 50 percent over the official
 exchange rate  for dollars in the unregulated market as they seek
protection from inflation economists estimate at 25 percent and
an accelerated weakening of the peso. The peso fell 12.5 percent
against the dollar last year, the most of all currencies in
 Latin America .  The government’s continuing use of reserves “weakens the
central bank’s balance sheet, which is reflected in expectations
for a devaluation,” Castillo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  