-- Dish Loses 3 of 4 Claims Against ESPN in Contract Dispute
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-03-01T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/dish-loses-3-of-4-claims-against-espn-in-contract-dispute.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  lost three of
four claims it brought against  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN over terms
of a sports programming contract, as a jury awarded Dish only
$4.85 million of the $153 million it sought.  Satellite service Dish, the third largest pay-television
provider, sued ESPN in 2009 for violating a so-called most-
favored-nation clause in their distribution agreement, which it
said requires the sports network to offer Dish the same terms it
offers a competitor. The 10-person jury in Manhattan federal
court reached the verdict yesterday in its second day of
deliberations.  The verdict comes the same week  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) 
filed an antitrust lawsuit against  Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  in the same court
challenging the bundling of cable networks, a practice that has
led to rising cable bills and ballooning channel lineups.  Media companies such as Viacom,  News Corp. (NWSA)  and  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX)  have long packaged popular networks with lower-rated fare
to promote new programming and boost revenue. Viacom, which owns
Nickelodeon and  MTV , says the approach is similar to offering
volume discounts, while Cablevision says that charging for
mandatory bundles is illegal and anti-consumer.  TV Providers  TV distributors pay ESPN and other cable programmers fees
based on ratings and the number of subscribers. According to the
media research firm SNL Kagan, ESPN charges TV providers about
$5.13 a month per subscriber, one of the highest rates in the
industry.  ESPN, based in Bristol,  Connecticut , argued in court that
it eventually granted Dish the terms offered to other
distributors of TV programming and that Dish was seeking better
contract terms than its competitors.  “We were confident in our contractual position and our
witnesses negotiated the contract,” David Yohai, a lawyer for
ESPN at Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP, said in an interview after
the verdict. “The plaintiffs attacked the credibility of the
witnesses but the jury felt otherwise.”  In a statement after the verdict, Stanton Dodge, the
general counsel for Englewood, Colorado-based Dish, said, “To
deliver the best programming at the best value to our customers,
Dish will remain vigilant in our efforts to ensure that
programmers honor their contractual commitments.”  Packaging Terms  “ESPN promised Dish that no other distributor had better
rate terms or packaging terms than Dish was receiving under the
contract,”  Barry Ostrager , a lawyer for Dish at Simpson Thacher
& Bartlett LLP, told the jury in his closing statement Feb. 27.
“ESPN made a calculated decision to not offer the same terms to
Dish.”  Dish said ESPN offered  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the largest U.S. pay-
TV company, the right to distribute the historical sports
channel ESPN Classic as part of a less-watched tier of channels,
which would result in lower payments. Dish said ESPN allowed
 Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) ,  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  DirecTV (DTV) ,
the second largest pay-TV provider and a rival in the satellite
business, to pay lower rates for the Spanish-language ESPN
Deportes.  Comcast also got the right to distribute the college-sports
network ESPNU to bars and taverns on better terms, Dish claimed.
ESPN also breached the contract by giving Time Warner Cable the
right to distribute its programming over the Internet without
imposing an extra subscription fee, Dish said.  The jury yesterday found that ESPN breached the contract
only in the Deportes claim.  Made Deals  ESPN said in court filings that it had “no obligation
under the agreement to provide any networks to Dish other than
on terms specified in the agreement.”  Dish and ESPN signed an eight-year distribution agreement
in 2005. Dish said in its complaint that it learned from press
releases and news reports in 2009 that ESPN had made deals with
Comcast and DirecTV that offered better terms than it received.
Dish said it sent a letter to ESPN demanding the same terms and
that ESPN failed to offer them.  In its suit, Cablevision is trying to use antitrust law to
force the unbundling of networks, a step advocated by consumer
and trade groups to slow the steady hikes in cable bills. Pay-TV
companies are finding it increasingly difficult to pass along
higher programming costs in the $170 billion industry, as
viewers have more video options on the Web, said  Paul Sweeney ,
an analyst at Bloomberg Industries.  ESPN is 80 percent-owned by Burbank, California-based
Disney and 20 percent by New York-based Hearst Corp.  Disney’s stock rose 11 cents to $54.59 yesterday in  New
York  Stock Exchange composite trading. Dish fell 7 cents to
$34.80 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  The case is Dish Network LLC v. ESPN Inc., 09-06875, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  