-- Michigan Governor to Issue Decision on Detroit Emergency Manager
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2013-03-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/distressed-detroit-buffeted-by-dueling-reports-on-state-takeover.html
Michigan  Governor  Rick Snyder  will
announce today whether he’ll appoint an emergency manager to run
Detroit, which ran up a $326.6 million deficit in 2012 even
after striking a deal with the state to control costs.  Snyder, in a town-hall meeting at noon in Detroit, may
concur with a Feb. 19 state report that declared Michigan’s
largest city in a financial emergency with no satisfactory plan
to reverse it. He then could name an emergency manager, although
the city would have 10 days to request a hearing to argue
against one.  Detroit would be the sixth Michigan city under state
control, as Snyder tries to avoid the largest municipal
bankruptcy in the U.S. The 54-year-old Republican has said he
didn’t want responsibility for the troubled city, though he also
enacted a law that gives emergency managers powers such as
selling municipal assets and canceling union contracts.  Detroit  has lost more than one-fourth of its population
since 2000, and declining tax revenues have led to inadequate
police and fire protection, broken street lights and unreliable
buses for its remaining 707,000 residents. Snyder said last week
the city must attract new residents to be viable.  Mayor Dave Bing has said his plans to turn around the city
have been stymied by lawsuits, union contracts and lack of
money.  Among opponents of a takeover are candidates in this year’s
mayoral race, who said the report exaggerates Detroit’s long-
term debt. The report calculated total debt at more than $14
billion, though that includes revenue bonds for a city water and
sewer system that serves much of the region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  