-- Dollar Outperforms in Best Month Since May on Budget Cut
-- B y   T a y l o r   T e p p e r   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-03-01T17:18:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/dollar-beats-all-assets-in-best-month-since-may-amid-budget-cuts.html
The dollar led gains in world
markets last month, beating global measures of bonds, stocks and
commodities, as the threat of U.S. budget cuts proved no barrier
to investors snapping up American assets.  Intercontinental Exchange Inc.’s  Dollar Index (DXY) , which tracks
the currency against those of six major U.S. trading partners,
climbed 3.5 percent in February, ending a two-month decline.
Global fixed-income assets rose 0.6 percent, including
reinvested interest, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.
The MSCI All-Country World Index of stocks added less than 0.1
percent after dividends. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total Return
Index of metals, fuels and agricultural products slid 4.4
percent, its biggest retreat since May.  The dollar’s advance underscores how investors are backing
the world’s biggest economy to weather the effects of the
spending reductions, known as sequestration, that take effect
today. While the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office said
the cuts will wipe 0.6 percent off U.S. growth this year, home
sales, consumer confidence and employment are improving at the
same time that the Federal Reserve vows to continue its
unprecedented support.  “Even if the U.S. isn’t growing rapidly, it’s still
looking more robust than others, including the euro area, the
U.K. and  Japan ,”  Alan Ruskin , global head of G-10 foreign-
exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in New York, said Feb. 25
in a telephone interview. “Pretty much everywhere in the G-10
is looking soft on a relative basis.”  Dollar Forecasts  The Dollar Index, trading at 81.98 yesterday after gaining
2.8 percent this year, will trade at 81.8 by year-end, according
to the median of 13 predictions compiled by Bloomberg.  Yields on Treasuries maturing in 10 years will climb to 2.3
percent from 1.85 percent, according to the median forecast of
67 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The S&P 500 may climb 1.9
percent to 1,543, according to the average forecast of 16
strategists in a Feb. 27 survey.  Companies in the U.S. added about 200,000 workers on
average a month in the last quarter of 2012, Bureau of Labor
Statistics data show. Consumer confidence had the biggest gain
in February since November 2011. Purchases of new homes jumped
in January to the highest level in more than four years, while
homebuilders began work on the most homes since July 2008.  Gross domestic product is estimated to increase 1.8 percent
in 2013, while in  Europe  it may expand 0.3 percent and 0.95
percent for Japan, according to median forecasts of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  No Obstacle  President  Barack Obama  called on Congress to halt the
“slow grind” on the economy caused by the automatic spending
reductions pass an alternative that closes tax loopholes and
cuts spending, including entitlements. The reductions will total
$1.2 trillion over nine years, with $85 billion set to take
effect in the remaining seven months of this fiscal year.  “The sequester event risk is not being taken as a major
obstacle for the market,” Michael Woolfolk, global markets
strategist in New York at Bank of New York Mellon Corp., the
world’s biggest custodian of financial assets, said in a Feb. 21
telephone interview.  The Dollar Index also strengthened as Japan took steps to
weaken the yen to protect exports and pull the world’s third-
biggest economy out of a recession and on speculation the Fed
will end $85 billion in monthly bond purchases earlier than
expected.  Yen Weakness  Japan’s currency depreciated 0.5 percent versus the dollar
on Feb. 18 after finance chiefs from the Group of 20 nations
signaled Prime Minister Shinzo Abe can keep up stimulus as long
as policy makers cease publicly advocating yen weakness. It
ended the month 0.9 percent weaker against the dollar and has
depreciated 15 percent in the past six months.  The euro fell as data showed the euro-area’s GDP dropped
0.9 percent in the fourth quarter,  consumer confidence  declined
more than forecast, inflation rose at a slower-than-expected
pace and  Italy ’s inconclusive election renewed concern about the
country’s austerity program.  Brazil ’s real and the South Korean won strengthened the
most against the dollar of the 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, rising 0.7 percent and 0.5 percent, respectively. The
 Norway ’s krone lost the most, tumbling 4.8 percent.  Worst Month  Commodities had the worst month since May as wheat, nickel
and silver tumbled more than 8 percent. All but two of the 24
raw materials tracked by the S&P GSCI declined on prospects for
increased supply and concern about slowing growth in  China , the
biggest consumer of everything from copper to cotton.  “Momentum increasingly went from being positive to
negative,” Ole Hansen, head of commodity strategy at Saxo Bank
A/S in Copenhagen, said by e-mail on Feb. 25. “It began with
the agriculture sector, where the improved weather outlook in
different regions raised supply prospects.”  Wheat fell below $7 a bushel for the first time since June
as snowstorms promised relief to drought-stricken U.S. winter
crops. Futures fell 8.3 percent to $7.145 a bushel. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. expects the grain to be at $7.80 a bushel in 12
months.  Oil dropped 5.6 percent to $92.05 a barrel in February on
the New York Mercantile Exchange. U.S.  crude production  rose to
7.12 million barrels a day in the week ended Feb. 15, the
highest since August 1992, a Feb. 21 Energy Information
Administration report showed.  West Texas Intermediate oil may rise to $102.50 a barrel in
three months, $105 in six and $97 in 12 months, Goldman said in
a Feb. 10 report.  Gold Falters  Gold fell 5.1 percent to $1,578.10 an ounce in New York,
while silver declined 9.3 percent to $28.432 an ounce. It was
gold’s fifth consecutive monthly decline, the longest losing
streak since 1997. Goldman Sachs said the cycle for bullion has
probably turned after rallying for its 12th straight year in
2012. The bank cut its three-month target to $1,615 from $1,825
in a Feb. 25 report.  More than $560 billion was wiped off global  equity values 
in February as the MSCI World index ended a three-month 8.8
percent rally. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  rose 1.2 percent, the
ninth-straight monthly advance, the longest streak since 1997.
Investors were jolted by Italian elections that produced no
clear winner.  Philippines Leads  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell 1.3 percent, the worst
since May. Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  lost
5.7 percent. Brazil’s  Bovespa Index (IBOV)  dropped 3.9 percent for the
second-largest retreat. The Shanghai Composite Index slumped 0.8
percent.  “You can always look at fundamental factors which are
contributing to a decline, which more recently is Europe,
specifically Italy,” David Sowerby, fund manager at Boston-
based Loomis Sayles & Co., said in a Feb. 26 phone interview.
“But you had such a strong move in stocks and I can’t stress
enough, it’s natural to get a modest sell off.”  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  led gains, jumping 7.8
percent as foreign investors lifted holdings for a fourth-
straight month.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.4 percent in
February and has advanced more than 140 percent from its bottom
in March 2009. The rally drove the index to as close as about 2
percent below its all-time high of 1,565.15 reached in October
2007. Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average climbed 3.9 percent, a
seventh monthly rally, amid expectations Abe will press the Bank
of Japan on stimulus.  Bond Returns  The 0.6 percent gain for bonds compared with a 0.6 percent
loss in January that was the first decline since June last year,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market
Index. The gauge, tracking securities with a market value of
almost $45 trillion, returned 5.7 percent last year.  U.S. government bonds rose 0.6 percent, after losing 1
percent in January, according to the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch U.S. Treasury Index. Global corporate debt gained 0.9
percent including reinvested interest, a separate Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index showed. High-yield bonds, rated
below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by Standard &
Poor’s, returned 0.6 percent for a ninth month of gains.  The JPMorgan EMBI Global Index of developing-nation dollar
bonds slipped 0.1 percent, its first back-to-back monthly losses
in two years.  Irish government bonds were the best performers among 26
sovereign markets tracked by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies, rising 1.8 percent.
Norway’s securities were second, gaining 1.4 percent, and
 Germany ’s were third, returning 1.3 percent.  The debt of Europe’s weakest economies led declines. Greek
bonds lost 5.7 percent. An index of Italian securities retreated
2.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Taylor Tepper in New York at 
 ttepper2@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  