-- Ex-Duke Lacrosse Players End Lawsuit Against School
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-03-01T16:40:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/duke-university-lacrosse-players-end-lawsuit-against-school.html
Thirty-eight former  Duke University 
lacrosse players ended a 2008 lawsuit alleging that the
institution lent its credibility to rape allegations against
three other team members who were later vindicated.  An agreement to drop the case against the university,
President Richard Brodhead and other officials was filed Feb. 27
in federal court in Durham, North Carolina. That document
referenced a Feb. 20 accord that doesn’t appear on the court’s
electronic docket.  “My clients settled their lawsuit with Duke,” plaintiffs’
attorney  David H. Thompson  said today in a telephone interview.
The terms of that agreement are confidential, he said.  Michael J. Schoenfeld, a spokesman for the university, said
yesterday the case had been resolved. In a phone interview, he
too declined to elaborate on the terms of the resolution.  The prosecution of players  David Evans , Collin Finnerty and
Reade Seligmann began in 2006 with a stripper’s claim that she
had been attacked after dancing at a team party.  State prosecutors took over the case in 2007 after the
original prosecutor, Michael Nifong, was accused of unethical
behavior during the investigation. Charges against the players
were later dropped and Nifong was disbarred.  The accused players filed a separate lawsuit against the
school in 2007.  The 38 settling players will continue to press claims
against the city of Durham, public officials and police for
“inappropriate and illegal conduct,” Thompson said today.  The case is Carrington v. Duke University, 08-cv-119, U.S.
District Court, Middle District of  North Carolina  (Durham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago federal court at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  