-- Dutch Bonus Cap Tougher Than EU’s as Bankers Put on Notice
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-03-01T15:51:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/dutch-pay-cap-trounces-eu-as-dijsselbloem-puts-bankers-on-notice.html
As the European Union moves to cap
bankers’ bonuses at twice fixed pay, the Netherlands is
considering even tougher measures amid a public backlash against
the industry.  After paring bonuses for top banking executives to 100
percent of annual salaries in 2010, the Dutch government plans
to limit bonuses to 20 percent of wages across the industry. The
nationalization of  SNS Reaal NV (SR)  last month added to calls to
reduce compensation.  At the center of the campaign is Dutch Finance Minister
Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who was appointed head of the eurogroup of
finance ministers in January. Dijsselbloem, like peers elsewhere
on the continent, and his Labor Party are concerned they’re
losing the support of voters as taxpayers foot the bill for
hundreds of billions of euros in bank bailouts.  “Remuneration in the banking industry is still
structurally higher than in other, comparable sectors, which is
incomprehensible in light of the situation we are in and the
amount of public money spent on keeping this industry going
since 2008,” Dijsselbloem told lawmakers in The Hague last
month.  European lawmakers and national government officials agreed
to cap bonuses starting next January. The current Dutch banking
code doesn’t allow exceptions unless they’re explained publicly.
The EU plan, due to be voted on in parliament in April, allows
banks to exceed the cap should compensation be paid in shares or
debt deferred for five years and that could be written down
during a crisis.  Lower Pay  Jan Hommen, chief executive of Amsterdam-based  ING Groep
NV (INGA) , which got a 10 billion-euro bailout in 2008, earns a
fraction of peers abroad. Hommen received a salary of 1.35
million euros ($1.7 million) in 2011 compared with the 6.6
million pounds ($10 million) paid to Douglas Flint, CEO of  HSBC
Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   Hommen waived a 1.25 million-euro bonus and a 2 percent pay
rise in 2011 after a remuneration plan sparked outrage among
consumers and politicians.  Dijsselbloem, 46, will propose new bonus curbs to
parliament at mid-year, Ben Feiertag, a spokesman for the
minister, said by telephone yesterday. Since the nationalization
of SNS, a majority of parliament have called for tougher bonus
rules, making passage of the measure likely. The government has
also promised a draft law on general remuneration at banks,
combining existing rules from the EU, Dutch central bank and
banking code.  Another Bailout  “The Netherlands is way ahead of most other countries in
terms of remuneration,” Bert Bruggink, chief financial officer
of Rabobank, the biggest Dutch mortgage lender, told reporters
in Utrecht, the Netherlands, yesterday. “You’re seeing a
tendency that variable pay is going down all over the world,
while in the Netherlands we’re slowly getting used to the idea
that it may disappear altogether.”  Outrage against bankers has flared since the Dutch
government took control of SNS Reaal on Feb. 1. The firm’s
nationalization will cost taxpayers 3.7 billion euros as capital
is injected into the bank and an earlier aid package is written
down. The Netherlands’ budget deficit will widen by 0.6
percentage point in 2013 because of the rescue, Dijsselbloem
said Feb. 1.  Banks Weigh  Taxpayers have already stumped up 30 billion euros to
rescue parts of ABN Amro Holding NV and Fortis, and provided
13.8 billion euros for ING Groep NV, SNS Reaal NV and  Aegon NV. (AGN) 
The Netherlands also took on the risk of 21.6 billion euros of
ING’s U.S. mortgage assets, guaranteed banks’ debt and
reimbursed Dutch depositors of Landsbanki Islands hf’s Icesave
unit after it collapsed in 2008.  The country’s finance industry measures about 4.8 times
gross domestic product, making it one of the largest in the
world on that basis, according to the Dutch central bank.  Following the 2008 financial crisis, banks receiving
financial aid from the state were prohibited by law to pay
executive bonuses at all. The central bank oversees remuneration
policies for top managers.  While Dijsselbloem’s position as chairman of the group of
17 euro finance ministers largely equates to the job of
spokesman, his comments may influence European leaders and
bankers as they consider measures on compensation.  ING Opposition  “It’s an important position because he will have more
influence on the agenda, stating priorities, putting issues on
the table,” said Nicolas Veron, a senior economist at the
Brussels-based Bruegel research group and a visiting fellow at
the Peterson Institute for International Economics in
Washington. “His role is to broker agreements and steer
discussions among all member states, he has to work in the
European interest in this capacity.”  Hommen of ING, who is due to step down in October, warned
last November that slashing compensation threatened to hurt
banks and the Dutch economy because firms wouldn’t be able to
attract top talent abroad.  “We cannot go too far in being out of line with what the
international market is telling us,” he said. “More than half
of what the country generates in income comes from international
trade. That requires an international banking system supporting
that and you have to have international people.”  Hommen’s basic salary rose from 923,000 euros in 2009. He
hasn’t received variable remuneration in cash, stock or debt
since he was hired that year. ING said the remuneration of
Hommen’s successor, Ralph Hamers, currently chief of its Belgian
bank, hasn’t been decided.  Bonus Culture  Piet Moerland, chairman of Rabobank, said his bank has
never had a tradition of high variable remuneration.  “It doesn’t fit in with our culture,” he said in an
interview in Utrecht. “It never has and it never should.”  Rabobank’s executives, whose variable compensation is
limited to 30 percent of basic salary, received 1.7 million
euros in performance-related pay in 2011, unchanged from 2010.
The firm has never received financial aid from the government.  Still, exceptions should be made for the employees of
foreign units of Dutch banks, Moerland said.  “For commercial staff in London, Hong Kong, New York and
Sao Paulo you can’t get away with it,” he said. “Either you
have to have different employment conditions or pull out of
these countries. That is not in the interest of Dutch companies
operating there.”  The basic salary of Gerrit Zalm, Chairman of state-owned
ABN Amro, was 759,375 euros in 2012, a 1.25 percent increase
from 2011 in line with a banking industry collective labor
agreement, according to the firm’s annual report published
today.  Public View  ABN Amro’s other six board members earned 607,500 euros in
2012. The bank’s supervisory board awarded them additional
compensation of 100,000 euros, in line with a transition
agreement allowed for by the law prohibiting bonuses for firms
that got state aid. The executives, including Joop Wijn and
Wietze Reehoorn, all waived the funds in 2012 and will also
forfeit the allowance in 2013, spokesman Arien Bikker said by
telephone.  A Dutch committee monitoring adherence to the banking code
in December found banks have improved risk management in the
last two years and that a vast majority of lenders adhere to the
bonus rules. Progress, however, isn’t reflected in the public’s
view of banks, a survey in October commissioned by the committee
showed.  ‘Best People’  “At some point you have to make a choice as a country, a
taxpayer, on what you consider acceptable,” Harald Benink,
professor of banking and finance at Tilburg University in the
south of the Netherlands, said in a phone interview.  SNS Reaal showed that the Netherlands is still vulnerable
to shocks to its financial institutions and the government will
urge banks to lower wages for all employees, Dijsselbloem said.
Wages in finance have risen 74 percent to 37.73 euros per hour
since 1995, outpacing an increase in the services industry of 53
percent to 22.40 euros in the period, he said.  Robert van Veggel, managing director of recruitment firm
 Hays Plc (HAS)  in the Netherlands, said Dutch banks may struggle to
compete for talent amid the stricter pay rules.  “Right now there may be a shortage of jobs but in the
longer term however it will remain an issue to attract the best
people,” Van Veggel said in an interview. “It’s not just about
the money, it’s also about a sense of pride, about the
industry’s image. This combination has come under pressure from
all measures targeted at the industry so far.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  