-- Leave the Hoarders Alone
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2013-02-28T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/leave-the-hoarders-alone.html
The Connecticut General Assembly is
considering a bill that would impose a “hoarders’ tax” on money
that the state’s corporations are retaining rather than spending
and use the proceeds for job-creation programs. As a resident of
the state, I would like to register my objection.  The  actual text  of the legislation is about as thin as a
bill can be: Not a single term is defined, and the amount of the
tax isn’t specified. The details can, of course, be filled in by
committee. More likely, the bill isn’t intended to go anywhere,
and was introduced for symbolic effect.  Nevertheless, the proposal reflects a worrisome idea that
has become all too common as our economy sputters along: the
notion that those who choose not to spend are holding onto their
money for maleficent motives and ought to be punished for it.  There is considerable political currency to the theory that
we could boost employment and thus consumption if we could only
pry loose the cash that the 1 percent is hiding in its
mattresses. As the AFL-CIO  explains  on its website: “Since the
Wall Street financial crisis, the largest U.S. non-financial
corporations have amassed record levels of cash. But rather than
investing these cash hoards to expand their operations and
create jobs, many companies have shed workers in the  United
States .”  Hoarding Valuables  There’s that word again: “hoard.” Although in its original
root (and even its correct definition) hoard describes the act
of protecting one’s valuables, the image it’s meant to conjure
in political usage is Scrooge, cackling as he rubs greedy hands
together in front of his safe full of gold coins. The filmmaker
 Michael Moore  was trying to paint this picture in a celebrated
(if often misquoted)  interview  two years ago:  “They’re sitting on the money, they’re using it for their
own -- they’re putting it someplace else. They have no interest
in helping you with your life, with that money. We’ve allowed
them to take that. That’s not theirs, that’s a national
resource, that’s ours. We all have this -- we all benefit from
this or we all suffer as a result of not having it.”  Consider for a moment the logic of the argument: Companies
(and certain people) are holding onto cash rather than spending
it. Spending it would be good for the economy. Let’s make them
spend it and help the economy.  The trouble with the argument is that being miserly isn’t
the same as being greedy. The greedier you imagine wealthy
individuals and corporations are, the less likely it is that the
money is just sitting there as they cackle in front of the safe.  Consider a greedy corporation -- by which we mean a
corporation that seeks to maximize its profit. It will invest
where it expects to earn the greatest return.  If the company isn’t investing as the fans of hoarders’
taxes would prefer -- in hiring -- the reason must be that the
expected return is too low. The company might buy short-term
Treasuries at about a quarter of 1 percent interest instead.
Such a low rate of return suggests that the company believes
that the return from additional hiring might actually be
negative. Indeed, if it is already maximizing profit at its
current level of employment, then by definition the marginal
cost of the next employee will be greater than the employee’s
marginal product.  If this is so, sensible policy for those who want companies
to create jobs would be to figure out why adding employees
reduces returns -- uncertainty over future policy, for example,
or regulatory costs associated with hiring -- and to address
that. Forcing the company to hire (or taxing it for not hiring)
when additional hiring will reduce profit is simply a way of
guaranteeing fewer companies.  Saving Money  Put all of that aside. If the problem is that the greedy
corporation is doing the equivalent of stuffing money in the
mattress, the hoarders’ tax isn’t looking in the right place for
the cash. If you want to undo hoarding, go where the real
hoarders are. And that isn’t the corporate boardroom.  According to the most recent Federal Reserve  Flow of Funds
Report , from the third quarter of 2012, nonfinancial
corporations held more than $15 trillion in financial assets.
The combined money-market shares, currency and deposit accounts
held by these companies in totaled a little less than $1.4
trillion. This amount is dwarfed by the $53.6 trillion in
financial assets held by households and nonprofit groups,
including some $6.9 trillion in deposit accounts and $1 trillion
in money-market funds.  In short, the big money isn’t being hoarded by for-profit
companies. It’s being hoarded by nonprofits and individuals.  Now, one might respond that individuals are merely being
prudent, saving for a rainy day, and nonprofits need substantial
endowments so they can extend their missions into the future.  These aren’t bad arguments. But the management of a for-
profit company can take precisely the same view on the best use
of its assets. And a decision by companies or individuals to
hold those assets in banks -- which in turn can make money only
by lending, whether to individuals, companies or the government
-- isn’t precisely the same as allowing them to sit idle.  I am not suggesting that it’s a good idea for companies to
hold large amounts of cash. But there’s no justification for the
proposition that for-profit companies have a particular
obligation to hire when others aren’t, unless of course one
wants to punish their owners for daring to want profit.  The economy is having a rough time, and the unemployment
numbers have remained frighteningly and frustratingly sticky.
There are many schools of serious thought on the reasons that
hiring has been so slow to recover. But a hoarders’ tax isn’t a
serious answer. If we want more private-sector jobs, we should
aim economic policy at finding ways to make hiring productive.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and the
novel “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln .” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu  or  @StepCarter  on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 