-- Economy in U.S. Ekes Out 0.1% Gain as Trade Gap Shrinks
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-02-28T15:02:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/economy-in-u-s-eked-out-gain-to-end-2012-as-trade-gap-shrank.html
The economy in the U.S. managed to
barely expand in the fourth quarter, erasing a previously
estimated contraction, as the smallest trade deficit in almost
three years helped overcome the biggest plunge in  defense
spending  since the Vietnam War era.  Gross domestic product grew at a 0.1 percent annual rate,
up from a previously estimated 0.1 percent drop, revised figures
from the Commerce Department showed today in  Washington . The
median forecast of 83 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for a 0.5 percent gain. Federal military outlays declined at a
22 percent annual pace, the biggest decrease since 1972.  The pace of growth indicates Federal Reserve policy makers
are likely to maintain asset purchases intended to boost the
expansion, which may be curbed by automatic  government spending 
cuts set to take effect tomorrow. At the same time, healing in
the residential real estate market and sustained gains in
 consumer spending  even as the  payroll tax  rose show the economy
probably picked up at the start of this year.  “The growth rate is still very pitiful,” said  Harm Bandholz , chief U.S. economist at UniCredit Group in  New York ,
who projected a 0.2 percent increase. “At least, the awkward
minus sign disappears.”  Fewer Claims  Fewer Americans than forecast filed applications for
 unemployment benefits  last week, showing companies were looking
beyond looming government spending cuts and maintaining
staffing, another report showed today. Jobless claims decreased
by 22,000 to 344,000 in the week ended Feb. 23, the Labor
Department reported in Washington. The median forecast of 44
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for 360,000
applications.  Other reports today showed that business activity in the
U.S. unexpectedly expanded and consumer confidence improved to
the highest level this year.  The MNI Chicago Report business barometer rose to 56.8 in
February from 55.6 the prior month. Numbers greater than 50
signal expansion. The median forecast of 51 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg was 54.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index climbed for a fourth
straight week, reaching minus 32.8 in the period ended Feb. 24
from minus 33.4 in the prior period. The share of Americans with
a positive view of the economy matched the highest since March
2008.  Stocks rose after the reports, with the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index advancing 0.2 percent to 1,519.59 at 9:53 a.m. in New
York.  Economists’ Projections  Economists’ projections for GDP, the value of all goods and
services produced, ranged from a 0.1 percent drop to a gain of 1
percent. The estimate is the second of three for the quarter,
with the final release scheduled for the end of March when more
information becomes available.  GDP grew 3.1 percent in the third quarter. For all of 2012,
the economy expanded 2.2 percent after a 1.8 percent increase in
the prior year.  The report reflected a revision to trade to now show a
decline in the difference between exports and imports. The trade
deficit shrank to $387.9 billion, the smallest since the first
quarter of 2010, from $395.2 billion in the previous three
months. The narrowing contributed 0.24 percent point to growth,
a 0.49-point swing from the previously estimated drag.  That was partially offset by an even smaller gain in
inventories than initially reported. Stockpiles grew at a
revised $12 billion annual pace, down from a $20 billion rate
estimated last month. The slowdown subtracted 1.55 percentage
points from growth, 0.28-point more than reported last month.  Growth Signal  Depleted inventories may signal a first-quarter pickup in
production.  Consumer purchases, the biggest part of the economy, rose
at a 2.1 percent annualized rate, little changed from the
previously estimated advance of 2.2 percent. The  median  forecast
in the Bloomberg survey projected a 2.3 percent increase.
Personal consumption added 1.47 percentage points to growth. It
grew at a 1.6 percent pace in the third quarter.  Today’s report also revised income data for the third
quarter. The gain in wages and salaries for the period from July
through September from the prior three months was revised up by
$6.8 billion to $39.3 billion.  After-tax income adjusted for inflation rose at a 0.7
percent annual rate in the third quarter, revised up from a
previously estimated 0.5 percent advance. That resulted in
shifting the fourth-quarter gain to 6.2 percent from 6.8
percent.  Gasoline Prices  Higher payroll taxes and rising gasoline prices are taking
a chunk out of discretionary income this quarter, which may make
it difficult to sustain household purchases at the same pace as
in the fourth quarter.  Congress and President  Barack Obama  allowed the payroll tax
to return to its 2010 level of 6.2 percent from 4.2 percent at
the start of the year, which means an American who earns $50,000
is taking home about $83 less a month.  The  average price  of a gallon of regular gasoline at the
pump rose to $3.79 on Feb. 26, the highest in more than four
months, according to AAA, the biggest U.S. motoring group.  Growing demand for autos is helping to power household
spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy.
Cars and light trucks sold at a 15.2 million annual rate in
January after 15.3 million in December, according to data from
Ward’s Automotive Group. Including November’s 15.5 million rate,
 auto sales  over the past three months have been the strongest in
five years. February data is scheduled for release tomorrow.  Automatic Cuts  Business spending has picked up after resolution of the so-called fiscal cliff at last year’s end, even amid negotiations
to avert $1.2 trillion of automatic cuts over nine years that
take effect tomorrow unless lawmakers and Obama agree on an
alternative. The reductions are to be split almost evenly
between defense and non-defense spending and are intended to
shrink the federal  budget deficit , which has exceeded $1
trillion in each of the past four years.  Capital investment  was a bright spot last quarter as
spending on equipment and software  grew  at a 11.3 percent rate,
the fastest in more than a year.  Orders (CGNOXAI%)  for capital goods
excluding defense equipment and aircraft, a proxy for future
business investment, jumped 6.3 percent in January, the most
since December 2011, Commerce Department figures showed
yesterday. That follows a 0.3 percent drop in December.  Recovery in the housing industry may continue to help
sustain the expansion. Growth in the home-improvement industry
should keep pace with the overall economy,  Robert Niblock , chief
executive officer of  Lowe’s Cos. (LOW) , the second-biggest home
improvement retailer, said on a Feb. 25 earnings call.  ‘Strengthening Growth’  “The fundamentals underlying drivers of industry growth --
mainly job gains and stable to growing housing -- should support
a strengthening growth trajectory for the industry,” Niblock
said.  The world’s largest economy is projected to grow at a 1.8
percent annual rate this quarter, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has said that while the
expansion is gaining traction, the need for a stronger economic
recovery outweighs the potential costs in financial markets of
continuing unprecedented monetary easing.  “Available information suggests that economic growth has
picked up again this year,” Bernanke said earlier this week in
testimony to the Senate Banking Committee in Washington.  Still, Bernanke cited an estimate from the nonpartisan
 Congressional Budget Office  that the spending cuts known as
sequestration will cause a 0.6 percentage-point reduction in
growth this year.  ‘Significant’ Burden  “Given the still-moderate underlying pace of economic
growth, this additional near-term burden on the recovery is
significant,” he said.  For all the concern in Washington about budget cuts,
investors are signaling that the economy is strong enough to
weather any reductions in spending, with home sales,  consumer
confidence  and employment rebounding.  The  S&P 500 Index  has climbed 6.6 percent this year, better
than the 5.6 percent gain for the MSCI All Country World Index.
Yields on 10-year Treasuries have dropped nine basis points
since Jan. 31 and were at 1.897 percent at 9:48 a.m. in New
York. The U.S.  Dollar Index , which tracks the currency against
six of America’s biggest trading partners, is near a five-month
high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  