-- Medicare Paid $5.1 Billion for Inadequate Nursing Homes
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-02-28T15:16:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/medicare-paid-5-1-billion-for-inadequate-nursing-homes.html
Medicare paid $5.1 billion to
nursing homes in 2009 that failed to meet quality-of-care
requirements, U.S. government investigators said.  Reviewers found examples of poor quality of care, including
services related to wound and medication management, the
 Department of Health  and Human Services’ inspector general said
in a  report  today. The analysis builds on a separate report last
year that showed Medicare paid $1.5 billion more to nursing
homes than they were owed in 2009 because the facilities
erroneously billed a quarter of their claims.  “These findings raise concerns about what Medicare is
paying for,” Daniel Levinson, the inspector general, said in
his report.  Medicare, the U.S. health program for the elderly and
disabled, paid $32.2 billion to nursing homes in the 2012 fiscal
year. The inspector general today recommended that the Centers
for Medicare and Medicaid Services strengthen regulations on
care planning, increase surveillance of underperforming nursing
facilities and more directly link pay to performance.  The CMS administrator,  Marilyn Tavenner , agreed with the
recommendations and said in a letter that her agency
“recognizes the importance and impact of effective care
planning and discharge planning on the quality of life and care
for nursing home residents.”  Nursing homes are dealing with people whose needs change
daily, requiring changes to their care plans, said Greg Crist, a
spokesman for the Washington-based American Health Care
Association, which represents the industry.  “Circumstances change, and our caregivers are adapting to
meet new medical needs,” Crist said. “We’re more focused on
health outcomes, and have seen them improve for our patients.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  