-- Egypt Balloon Probe May Imperil Mursi’s Tourism Drive
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-02-28T11:54:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/egypt-balloon-probe-may-imperil-mursi-s-tourism-drive.html
A fatal hot air balloon crash
involving foreigners may undermine Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi’s efforts to revive tourism, opening the door for new
criticism on his handling of the economy.  Investigators in Luxor, the southern city famed for its
pharaonic monuments, will today conclude an investigation into
the fiery crash that left 19 tourists dead. Initial reports from
the Luxor prosecutor’s office indicate the pilot, who survived
with serious burns, radioed the control room to report a problem
with the helium tube and tried to make an early landing, the
state-run Ahram Gate reported today.  It was the latest blow to tourism, which has yet to recover
from the 2011 uprising and subsequent unrest, and drew
complaints that Mursi’s not visiting the site was another
example of how his government is divorced from the nation’s
economic problems after the ousting of  Hosni Mubarak .  Hassan Galal, a 43-year-old Luxor-based partner in a
tourism company said Mursi’s absence and lack of public
statements sent the wrong signal, particularly to residents of
the city that’s been spared the kind of protests and unrest
gripping other parts of the nation.  “If he believed that tourism was important to the country,
then he should have come,” Galal said. “The president didn’t
come, the prime minister didn’t come. It’s as if nothing has
happened in Luxor.”  Red Sea Focus  Instability has kept tourists largely focused on the Red
Sea resorts and antiquity havens like Luxor, hindering a
recovery of an economy that has been growing at its slowest pace
in two decades. A $4.8 billion International Monetary Fund loan
request has yet to be agreed on.  The Cabinet has issued statements about the incident. The
presidency reposted on its Twitter site on Feb. 26 condolences
sent by the Foreign Ministry. Luxor Governor Ezzat Saad El-Sayed
said he had received a call from Mursi offering his condolences.  After a 1997 massacre of foreign tourists at a famed Luxor
area temple, Mubarak flew down to the city, publicly berated his
then interior minister and fired him on the spot.  The crash will have a “fatal impact” on tourism in the
city, Tharwat El-Agamy, head of Luxor’s tourism chamber, said by
phone. The suspension of flights is costing the nine companies
that operate the tours about $60,000 per day, he said.  Balloon operators now get 30 to 40 tourists a day, down
from as much as 200 before the 2011 uprising, he said.  The response by Mursi and the government has been “really
disappointing,” El-Agamy said. “They should have made any
effort to send a reassuring message to the world that they care
about the industry and that the lives of tourists matter.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  