-- Tel Aviv Hours Seen Keeping Volumes at ’06 Low: Israel Overnight
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-02-28T23:14:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/tel-aviv-hours-seen-keeping-volumes-at-06-low-israel-overnight.html
The  Tel Aviv  Stock Exchange’s
decision to extend trading hours will do little to boost trading
volumes from a six-year low, according to Artemis Investment
Management LLP.  “The Israeli stock exchange is, not by its own fault, in a
tough spot,” Jacob de Tusch-Lec, a London-based  money manager 
at Artemis, which oversees $20 billion including Israeli shares,
said by phone yesterday. “What would really help is if  Israel 
got into an index.” The extended hours “won’t help with
that,” he said.  Trading will be stretched to 5:30 p.m., the TASE, as the
exchange is known, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The
move is the latest step the Tel Aviv bourse has taken as it
seeks to lure international investors after MSCI Inc.’s 2010
reclassification of the market as developed reduced flows. The
exchange is also in talks with Deutsche Boerse AG to add a
futures contract on the benchmark  TA-25 (TA-25)  index, and has sought to
diversify listings  dominated  by energy and financial stocks.  The Tel Aviv Traded Volume Index fell 17 percent in 2012 to
the lowest level since 2006. The  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity
Index (ISRA25BN)  of the largest Israeli companies traded in  New York  added
2.2 percent in the month.  Equity trading will be prolonged to 5:30 p.m. from 4:30
p.m. Monday to Thursday and will be cut to 2:30 p.m. on Sunday,
the bourse said. Volumes increased more than 30 percent on days
the trading hours coincided more with European and U.S. markets,
the TASE said, citing an internal analysis.  Operating Hours  The changes, which are set to take place in the first half
of April, are aimed at increasing trading volume and arbitrage
trading as well as improving the liquidity of  dual-listed 
companies, the exchange said.  “If your benchmark is  emerging markets , why would you buy
Israeli equities? If you’re a European  fund manager , it’s not a
part of your benchmark either,” de Tusch-Lec said. “That’s the
real issue, which makes the whole operating hours thing
irrelevant.”  Following Israel’s upgrade to a developed market, which
took effect in May 2010, investors tracking MSCI gauges had to
rebalance their portfolios as Israel was moved from emerging-
market groups to the  MSCI Europe and Middle East Index , part of
the MSCI World Index. The change led to a net outflow of $795
million from Tel Aviv shares by the end of 2010, compared with
inflows of $1.7 billion in 2009, central bank data showed.  After Israel was removed from the emerging-market measure,
“the appetite for local stocks from international holders
decreased dramatically,” Sagie Poznerson, head of trading at
 Leader Capital Markets (LDRC)  Ltd., said in a telephone interview
yesterday from Tel Aviv.  ‘Positive Step’  TASE’s lengthened hours will increase trading overlap with
 Europe  and extend to the start of the trading day in the U.S.
While dual-listed stocks such as  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries
Ltd. (TEVA)  may seem volume benefits due to arbitrage trading, “that
in itself won’t increase the attention of international
institutions,” Poznerson said.  The TA-25 Index gained 3.7 percent to 1221.47 in February.
A longer trading day may help Israel’s case to be included in
the MSCI Europe Index,  Zach Herzog, head of equity sales and
trading at Psagot Investment House Ltd. in Tel Aviv, said by
phone yesterday.  “It is a positive step,” Herzog said. “The question is
whether it’s successful in attracting more attention from global
investors, not just the arbitrage players.”  Tandem Moves  Allot Communications Ltd. (ALLT)  slid 4.2 percent to $13.73, the
most since Jan. 8, while the shares traded in Tel Aviv lost 3
percent to 53.2 shekels, or $14.33. The Hod Hasharon, Israel-
based maker of products that track wireless traffic was the
worst performer on the Bloomberg Israel-US gauge.  Procera Networks Inc. (PKT) , which also develops communication
equipment, plunged 30 percent as its projected 2013 revenue
growth of 25 percent to 30 percent came below the median
estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “It’s not unusual for everyone in a category to sell off
together when one company reports,” Alex Henderson, an analyst
at Needham & Co. who rates both companies buy, said by phone
yesterday in New York. “They all move in tandem.”  Caesarstone Sdot Yam Ltd. (CSTE)  added 1.5 percent to $23.25, its
highest price since Feb. 19. The Israeli producer of quartz-
based countertops has added 45 percent this year, making it the
 best performer  on the Bloomberg Israel-US index in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  