-- Telefonica Earnings Exceed Estimates on Latin America
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-02-28T08:21:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/telefonica-earnings-exceed-estimates-on-latin-america.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Spain ’s biggest phone
company, reported fourth-quarter earnings that beat analysts’
estimates as sales growth in Latin America helped to offset
revenue declines in its domestic market.  Operating income before depreciation and amortization fell
8.6 percent to 5.45 billion euros ($7.2 billion), the Madrid-
based company said today in a statement. Analysts projected
Oibda of 5.44 billion euros, the average of  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg. Net income fell 82 percent to 473 million euros,
hurt by a loss from Telefonica’s position in bolivars, after
 Venezuela  devalued its currency.  Telefonica may be gaining traction with its turnaround
after Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta suspended dividend
payments and sold assets including a stake in Telefonica
Deutschland Holding AG. Still, earnings and sales are yet to
rebound as Telefonica is forced to cut prices to fend off
smaller rivals in the company’s shrinking home economy.  “The numbers look pretty encouraging,” said Paul Marsch,
an analyst at Berenberg Bank in  London , who has a “sell”
rating for the stock. “There’s a whole bunch of one-off items
but overall, in  Latin America  they delivered growth while the
trend on the domestic market is good.”  Telefonica shares advanced 3.2 percent to 10.12 euros at
9:13 a.m. in  Madrid . They had declined 3.8 percent this year
through yesterday, and have lost almost half of their value in
the  past three years .  Bolivar Devaluation  The company is facing pressure from credit-rating companies
over its net  debt , which stood at 51.3 billion euros at the end
of 2012. That’s equivalent to 2.36 times annual Oibda, missing
the ratio of less than 2.35 Telefonica had targeted. Telefonica
said it expects sales to grow this year and plans to cut net
debt this year to less than 47 billion euros.  “Telefonica is still very much committed to reducing its
debt level, and that’s positive for the market,” said Alexandra Delgado, an analyst at BCP Investimento in Lisbon. “The lack of
precision on their revenue growth target shows how the company
is cautious for this year.”  Sales dropped 2 percent to 15.8 billion euros, beating the
15.6 billion euros analysts predicted on average. Full-year
sales fell 0.8 percent, missing the company’s forecast. In July,
the carrier lowered its 2012 revenue-growth goal to at least
unchanged, compared with a previous forecast for more than 1
percent growth.  Full-year net income fell 27 percent to 3.93 billion euros,
hurt by writedowns of 949 million euros related to Telefonica’s
stake in  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , 513 million euros for its Ireland
assets and 417 million euros in Venezuela, related to its
bolivar position.  Spain Plunge  In July, Telefonica suspended dividends to save 10 billion
euros, one of several former European phone monopolies to curb
payouts in a bid to conserve cash for network upgrades as the
continent’s economy sputters.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , which competes with Telefonica in
markets including Germany, the U.K. and the  Czech Republic ,
today reported fourth-quarter earnings before some items that
missed analysts’ estimates because of higher spending to add
customers in Germany and retain mobile-phone subscriptions in
the U.S.  In Spain, Telefonica’s fourth-quarter Oibda slid 3 percent
to 1.71 billion euros as sales dropped 14.3 percent to 3.62
billion euros. In Latin America, Oibda advanced 1.6 percent to
3.2 billion euros as sales climbed 4.2 percent to 7.94 billion
euros. In  Brazil , the region’s biggest market, Oibda rose 5.8
percent to 1.49 billion euros.  “Spain will remain a challenge,” Delgado said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  