-- Telekom Austria Advances as Revenue Exceeds Estimates
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r
-- 2013-02-28T17:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/telekom-austria-loses-eu76-million-in-quarter-on-competition.html
Telekom Austria AG (TKA) , one of two
European phone companies partly owned by  Carlos Slim ’s  America
Movil SAB (AMXL) , rose the most in three months after fourth-quarter
domestic revenue declined by less than analysts expected.  The stock rose 4.1 percent, the most since November, to
5.06 euros in Vienna. Fourth-quarter revenue from  Austria  fell
4.1 percent to 721 million euros ($943 million). Telekom
Austria’s fourth-quarter net loss narrowed to 76.3 million euros
from a loss of 321.5 million euros a year earlier.  “Austria did not come in as badly as we expected,” said
Bernd Maurer, an analyst at Raiffeisen Centrobank in Vienna. The
Austrian division showed margins that exceeded forecasts and
better revenue on data and equipment, he said.  Revenue fell 2.8 percent in 2012 and analysts expect it to
decline further this year even as the number of mobile operators
in the home market is shrinking from four to three. The company
is grappling with a shrinking domestic market for fixed-line
services as well as tougher competition and regulatory cuts to
lower mobile termination and roaming rates.  For years, four mobile operators have battled for an
Austrian population of about 8 million.  Telekom Austria  expects
competition to remain fierce even after  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) 
took over Orange Austria.  “Austria has three mobile operators; so does  China ,”
Chief Executive Officer Hannes Ametsreiter said at a press
conference today.  Declining Prices  Average revenue per user in the company’s Austrian wireless
segments shrank 8.7 percent to 17.5 euros last year. All-
inclusive contracts are available for as little as 7 euros a
month in the country, causing many people to give up their fixed
line. After shrinking for 15 years, revenue in Telekom Austria’s
domestic fixed-line segment grew by 0.2 percent last year on the
sale of bundled products, Ametsreiter said.  Telekom Austria is also preparing for more investment in
Austria, where wireless spectrum auctions are due later his
year. The phone operator is facing a period of heavy investment
“just as operational momentum is worsening,” Usman Ghazi, an
analyst at Berenberg Bank, wrote in a note to clients this week.
Telekom Austria may spend 350 million euros on Austrian
spectrum, he said. Auctions in several of the company’s eastern
European markets are scheduled between 2014 and 2017.  Revenue in Austria and  Bulgaria  fell “due to intense
competition and regulatory effects,” the company said in a
statement. “Business performance was negatively impacted by
regulatory measures on both the domestic and foreign markets,
mainly applying to mobile termination rates and roaming
tariffs.”  Regulatory Pressure  European regulators have been limiting the prices phone
companies can charge for roaming. Ametsreiter said that earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization generated
from roaming have declined by 131 million euros between 2007 and
2012. He expects them to shrink another 41 percent until 2016.  The company reiterated a revenue forecast for this year of
about 4.1 billion euros and investment of about 700 million
euros, excluding what it plans to spend on spectrum.  Chief Financial Officer Hans Tschuden didn’t disclose how
much the company has set aside for the auction, saying he didn’t
want to give competitors an advantage.  Telekom Austria has enough credit lines for the investment
and might also tap the  bond market , he said. “Our investment-
grade rating guarantees us access at any time,” Tschuden said.
The company is  rated  BBB by  Standard & Poor’s .  Telekom Austria plans a five-cent dividend for 2012 and
2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  