-- Emerging Stocks Rise Most in Two Months on China Property Rally
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-02-28T22:34:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/emerging-stocks-rise-most-in-four-weeks-on-china-property-rally.html
Emerging-market stocks climbed the
most in two months, paring its February decline, as  China Vanke
Co.’s (000002)  better-than-estimated earnings boosted Chinese developers
and  Magyar Telekom Nyrt. (MTELEKOM) ’s dividend lifted Hungarian shares.  Vanke,  China ’s biggest developer, surged the most in five
weeks in Shenzhen after saying net income rose last year.  Vale
SA (VALE3)  advanced as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said the miner showed
signs of a turnaround. Magyar Telekom, the Hungarian unit of
Deutsche Telekom AG, had its biggest gain since June.  FirstRand
Ltd. (FSR)  rose as Citigroup Inc. recommended shares of the South
African lender. Indian stocks erased gains and the rupee fell
after the government signaled record borrowing plans.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 0.8 percent to
1,054.62 in New York, trimming February’s drop to 1.3 percent,
its worst month since May. Vanke advanced 6 percent as net
income surged 30 percent last year. A report today showed the
U.S. economy expanded in the fourth quarter after data yesterday
indicated orders for durable goods rose in January. Demand
increased yesterday at Italy’s first debt auction since
inconclusive election results earlier this week.  “China is demonstrating a clear path of economic recovery,
especially in the property sector,” Jessada Sookdhis, chief
investment officer at CIMB-Principal Asset Management Co. Ltd.,
which oversees about $805 million of assets, said by phone in
Bangkok. “The U.S. data and Italian debt sales have also
bolstered sentiment in emerging markets.”  Yields Fall  Italian bond yields declined for a second day amid
speculation the nation’s lawmakers will set aside differences to
form a broad coalition government. The U.S. economy grew at a
0.1 percent annual rate in the last quarter, up from a
previously estimated 0.1 percent drop.  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund , the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, dropped 0.5
percent to $43.21. U.S. stocks erased gains in the final minutes
of trading as the Senate voted to keep $85 billion of spending
cuts in place. The  Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging
Markets ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options prices on the
fund and expectations of price swings, fell 2 percent to 18.42.  The  Shanghai  Composite Index advanced 2.3 percent. South
Korea’s  Kospi (KOSPI)  added 1.1 percent and the won climbed 0.2 percent
against the dollar. Mexico’s IPC Index rose 0.8 percent in its
second day of gains.  Brazil’s Bovespa gained 0.3 percent as Vale climbed 3.1
percent. The world’s biggest iron-ore producer said it’s poised
to benefit from a price recovery and a balance-sheet cleanup
that spurred a record quarterly loss.  Lojas Americanas  Voting shares of retailer Lojas Americanas SA jumped 7.8
percent in Sao Paulo, leading gains by companies that sell on
credit amid speculation that Brazilian policy makers will delay
raising record low interest rates.  Argentina’s credit-default swaps surged and bonds fell the
most in emerging markets after the country said it would halt
payments on its restructured bonds if it was ordered to pay
defaulted debt holders.  Hungary’s BUX  Index (DFMGI)  climbed 1.6 percent and South Africa’s
FTSE/JSE Africa All-Share Index added 1.1 percent. The Czech PX
Index gained 1.9 percent, while Turkey’s benchmark stock index
added 1.5 percent.  Magyar Telekom gained 4.4 percent in Budapest, the biggest
jump since June 29. Management proposed holding the dividend at
50 forint per share after the company posted its first increase
in sales since 2007 last year.  FirstRand surged 3.1 percent, the most since Dec. 20, in
Johannesburg. Citigroup raised its recommendation on the stock
to buy from neutral. The rand weakened for the first time in six
days after South Africa posted a record trade gap in January.  Metals Drop  Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  slipped 0.1 percent. OAO GMK Norilsk
Nickel, Russia’s largest nickel producer, sank 1.7 percent to
the lowest level since Dec. 14 as industrial metals declined.
OAO Rosneft, the nation’s biggest oil company, fell 1.2 percent
in Moscow as crude in New York extended the first monthly drop
since October.  Mail.ru, the Moscow-based Russian-language e-mail and
social networking company, fell 10 percent in  London , the most
since Aug. 15, as billionaire  Alisher Usmanov ’s USM Holdings
Ltd. reduced its stake by about 7.4 percent. Trading volume on
the shares was 74 times the three-month average, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Inter RAO Lietuva AB (IRL)  rose 6.9 percent to the highest since
it started trading in Warsaw in December after the Baltic power
trader reported 2012 earnings.  The Dubai Financial Market General Index fell 0.6 percent.
 Arabtec Holding Co. (ARTC)  slumped 9.8 percent, the steepest decline
since March, on concern the Dubai builder’s capital increase
plans may dilute the shares given the conversion price and as
full-year profit missed estimates.  Depa Climbs  Depa Ltd. soared 11 percent, the most since Nov. 21, after
EFG-Hermes Holding SAE said the Dubai-based interior designer
may be taken over by Arabtec Holding.  India ’s S&P BSE Sensex declined 1.5 percent to the lowest
close since Nov. 27. Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram
said the nation’s fiscal deficit will be 4.8 percent of gross
domestic product in the year through March 2014 and announced
record borrowing plans.  Reliance Communications Ltd., an Indian phone operator,
plunged 12 percent, the most since February 2011.  Nine out of 10 industry groups in the  MSCI Emerging Markets
Index (MXEF)  advanced, with gauges of financial and industrial
companies adding at least 1.2 percent, leading gains. The
emerging-markets index has lost 0.1 percent this year, compared
with a 5 percent gain in the MSCI World Index. The developing-
nations index trades at 10.5 times projected 12-month earnings,
compared with the MSCI World’s 13.8 times, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Yield Spread  The extra yield investors demand to hold emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 288, according to the JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said yesterday
recent increases in some interest rates may signal the economy
is gaining vigor and that the central bank’s easing policies are
helping to improve demand for homes and cars.  “The view is that quantitative easing can last longer than
expected in the U.S., after some fears that it could be reduced
later this year,” said Martial Godet, head of emerging-markets
strategy at BNP Paribas SA in London. “China is rebounding
after a significant underperformance, while  Indian (SENSEX)  banks are
collapsing on a disappointing budget.”  Yuan Gains  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
listed in Hong Kong rose 2.6 percent, the most since Jan. 2. The
Jakarta Composite Index advanced 1.7 percent to a record.
Vietnam’s  VN Index (VNINDEX)  surged 1.9 percent, the most since Feb. 6.
The Philippines Stock Exchange Index increased 1.6 percent to a
record, led by  BDO Unibank Inc. (BDO) , which surged 8 percent.  China’s  yuan  advanced to a four-week high as the central
bank set the currency’s fixing at the strongest level in a month
before a report that is forecast to show manufacturing growth
accelerated.  Vanke’s  net income  climbed to 12.55 billion yuan ($2
billion) in the 12 months to Dec. 31 from 9.62 billion yuan a
year earlier, the company said in a statement yesterday. That
compares with the 11.95 billion yuan average profit  estimate  of
16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Biggest rival  Poly Real Estate Group Co. (600048)  rose 3.6 percent
in Shanghai. Sino Land Co. added 3.4 percent in Hong Kong.  South Korean manufacturers’ confidence for March climbed to
the highest level since July, the Bank of Korea said.  OCI Co. (010060) ,
which produces polysilicon used in solar panels, climbed 2.7
percent in  Seoul .  BYD Co. (1211) , the Chinese carmaker partly owned by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., slid 4.2 percent in Hong
Kong, the lowest level since Feb. 6, after reporting full-year
profit that trailed analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  