-- Lena Dunham, Benmosche, Rosenquist, Kennedy: NYC Scene
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-02-28T16:57:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/lena-dunham-benmosche-rosenquist-kennedy-nyc-scene.html
A banker, a doctor and HBO star Lena
Dunham took the stage last night at the Jewish Museum’s benefit.  The lawyers were in the audience, including Michael A. Levitt, a corporate partner at Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver &
Jacobson LLP, and Noelle Lilien, general counsel at the National
September 11 Memorial & Museum.  “Welcome to my bat mitzvah,” Dunham said, capturing the
feeling, if not of her generation, then certainly of the more
than 900 guests at the party.  The banker, Morris Offit, an independent director of
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and a member of a panel
reviewing Deutsche Bank AG’s compensation system, gave a tribute
to  Robert Benmosche , the chief executive officer of AIG.  Benmosche’s honoree gift: a silver Kiddush Cup, an
accoutrement of Jewish ritual used for the blessing over wine.
He said he planned to bring it to his home in Dubrovnik,
 Croatia , where he has a vineyard, “so people can learn about
Jewish tradition.”  Dunham -- who as 24-year-old Hannah in “Girls” has not
exactly been devoted to finding a good Jewish husband, yet, but
who in real life is dating Jewish musician Jack Antonoff -- was
the evening’s entertainer.  She is Jewish because her mother is Jewish, she explained:  “Here’s the thing about Jews. They really couldn’t care
less who your father is -- unless he is on the board of one of
the better  New York  hospitals.”  Dunham identified her father as a “white anglo-saxophone
Protestant.” It was he who took her to the Jewish Museum as a
child. She recalled those trips, speaking as her six-year-old
self, a conceit inspired by Eloise.  ‘Sunday School’  “For me museums are like my Sunday school,” she said.
“Every Sunday we go to a museum and look at whatever my Dad
says we should look at. If it were up to me we’d just stay in
the gift shop and try on rings that architects designed but he
says no way. The Met is the one I like a lot and also the Jewish
Museum. Everything there is not just boring stuff, it’s people
doing interesting things who just happen to be Jewish, and not
even making a big deal of it.”  “We’re trying to make the museum more forward, more
current to our existing audiences as well as new audiences,”
said Robert Pruzan, the museum’s chairman and co-founder of
Centerview Partners LLC.  Harry Houdini  One year on the job, director Claudia Gould is bringing in
a slew of contemporary artists including Tim Lee, who described
himself as “Korean Canadian Presbyterian,” and the fashion
collective Three As Four.  As for last night, Gould and Pruzan proved themselves as
party planners. It was wonderful to be out of the Waldorf-
Astoria’s ballroom, for years the usual venue. At the Park
Avenue Armory, Weezer played during cocktail hour.  The theme, a celebration of the Jewish holiday Purim, which
calls for costumes, masks and drunkenness, remained the same,
but felt freer. A favorite costume was a miniature tiara atop a
beautifully blown-out raven mane.  Harvard-bound high-school senior Lauren Volpert -- daughter
of Barry Volpert, chairman of Crestview Partners -- danced at
the after-party alongside artists Kiki Smith and Lisa Yuskavage.  The scene really did bring back memories of bat mitzvahs, a
pretty incredible one at which James Rosenquist, who was
honored, dined with Caroline Kennedy, and the amount raised was
more than $1.8 million.  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Rich Jaroslovsky  on  technology ,
Philip Boroff on  theater .  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 