-- Menopause Drugs from Depomed, Hisamitsu Offer Benefits
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-02-28T15:06:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/menopause-drugs-from-depomed-hisamitsu-offer-benefits.html
Drugs being developed by  Depomed
Inc. (DEPO)  and  Hisamitsu Pharmaceutical Co. (4530)  to ease menopausal hot
flashes yielded inconsistent results in trials that call into
question how meaningful the benefits would be, regulators said.  Depomed’s gabapentin and Hisamitsu’s paroxetine mesylate
were shown to help women avoid sudden feverish feelings linked
to menopause, staff at the  Food and Drug Administration  said in
a  report  today. The concern is that the reduction in severity
and frequency of the flashes varied widely in clinical trials.  Each drug, non-hormonal alternatives to the existing
medicines, will be discussed on March 4 by agency advisers.
Companies have been looking to give women more choices in
menopause therapies after hormone treatments were found to
increase  the risk  of  breast cancer , heart attack and stroke.  “There’s a real need for an approved product so women who
don’t want to use hormones don’t have to suffer in silence,”
Michael Sweeney, chief medical officer for  Menlo Park ,
California-based Depomed, said in a telephone interview.  Hot flashes affect about 32 million women in the U.S. and
40 percent choose not to use hormones or aren’t good candidates
for them, Depomed said. The FDA is scheduled to decide on
Depomed’s pill by May 31 and Saga, Japan-based Hisamitsu’s
capsule by June 28.  Suicidal Thoughts  Both drugs also carry side effects that include suicidal
thoughts, which need to be considered before approval, the staff
members said. The suicidal thoughts are listed as side effects
in existing drugs with the same active ingredients. Hisamitsu’s
paroxetine mesylate is currently sold in the antidepressant
Pexeva, and Depomed’s gabapentin is used in a shingles therapy.  Both Hisamitsu and Depomed’s drugs for hot flashes had an
effect after four weeks and struggled as tests persisted out to
12 and 24 weeks, the FDA staff said in the report.  Hisamitsu’s paroxetine mesylate showed a treatment effect
on hot flash frequency after 24 weeks in one study, according to
the report.  Depomed’s gabapentin didn’t reduce the frequency of hot
flashes after 12 weeks in any of the three studies on the drug,
the report said. Two trials on gabapentin showed the drug
decreased the severity of hot flashes after four and 12 weeks.  The FDA rejected Depomed’s proposed name for gabapentin,
Serada, and now the company is suggesting it be dubbed Sefelsa.
Gabapentin is currently used in Depomed’s Gralise, which is sold
for pain associated with shingles. Gralise generated about $35
million in sales for the company last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The FDA also is reviewing an experimental drug from Pfizer
Inc. and  Ligand Pharmaceuticals Inc. (LGND) , bazedoxifene combined with
a blend of estrogens. The drug would be used to treat hot
flashes and vulvar and vaginal atrophy and prevent osteoporosis.
The FDA is scheduled to decide by Oct. 3 whether New York-based
Pfizer and Ligand, based in  La Jolla , California, can market
their treatment in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  