-- Erste Foresees Cost-Cutting Amid Eastern Europe Slump
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-02-28T14:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/erste-will-pay-40-cent-dividend-after-reporting-profit-in-2012.html
Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  will rely on
cost cuts and lower bad debt charges to balance declining
lending revenue this year as central and eastern European
economies are mired in slow growth.  Erste returned to profit, reporting 483.5 million euros
($636 million) in net income last year after a 719 million- euro
loss in 2011, it said in a statement today. The bank will cut
costs and reduce loan-loss provisions at least 10 percent to
compensate for revenue lost on lackluster credit demand.  “Overall growth in central and eastern  Europe  will not be
sufficient in 2013 to really fuel loan growth,” Chief Executive
Officer Andreas Treichl told analysts on a conference call
today. “We expect maybe later in 2013 and in 2014 to see a
stronger performance on the lending side.”  Erste, smaller than only  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI)  among banks operating in Europe’s ex-communist
bloc, has promised investors to bolster earnings this year
partly by making its debt-ridden Romanian unit profitable again.
A shrinking economy has pushed more than a quarter of Erste’s
loans in Black Sea country into delinquency.  Erste shares climbed 3.5 percent to 24.58 euros at 2:54
p.m. in Vienna, giving the bank a market value of 9.7 billion
euros. It was the best performer in the 40-company  Bloomberg
Europe Banks and Financial Services  index.  Loan Losses  The bank’s revenue declined by 3.3 percent last year,
driven by lower interest income, while it cut costs by 2.4
percent. The operating result fell 4.3 percent to 3.47 billion
euros. Treichl didn’t provide detail about how he plans to cut
cost this year outside of  Romania , where the bank has already
begun cutting jobs and closing branches.  Loan-loss provisions of 1.98 billion euros last year,
almost half of which were caused by Erste’s Romanian and
Hungarian units, will decline by a “double-digit percentage”
in 2013, driven by a reduction in Romania, Erste said.  Treichl said the reduction rate would be “closer to 10
percent than to 99 percent” and declined to be more specific.
Reaching the 18 percent decline that analysts estimate on
average, according to Erste’s website, would be “pleasing,” he
said.  “Erste is guiding the market to expect a risk cost decline
that is smaller than what the market expects,” said Eleni Papoula, a banking analyst at Berenberg Bank in  London . “When
people start looking up those numbers they will see that Erste
is much more cautious.”  Capital Ratio  Erste will resume dividend payments at 40 cents a share
after suspending payments last year, it said. The Bloomberg
Dividend Forecast was for a dividend of 35 cents a share. Erste
had paid 70 cents a share from 2010 profit.  Core Tier 1 capital, a measure of financial strength, rose
to 9.6 percent of risk-weighted assets at the end of 2012 from
7.8 percent the previous year, when stripping off state aid and
other forms of capital injections that are being phased out by
regulators, Erste said.  Treichl said he now “feels very comfortable” with the
bank’s capital position and would be able to repay 1.24 billion
euros of state aid the bank received in 2009 “any time.” He
declined to say when he planned to repay that capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  