-- Hester Gives Cameron Chance of 2015 Election Boost From RBS Sale
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-02-28T15:42:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/hester-gives-cameron-chance-of-2015-election-boost-from-rbs-sale.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) 
Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  said the lender may be
ready to be returned to private hands before the 2015 general
election, providing a boost for Prime Minister  David Cameron .  RBS, which received the biggest banking bailout in the
world in 2008, “will be ready to be privatized in the next
couple of years,” Hester said today after the lender announced
a wider-than-expected full-year loss.  Constrained by his self-imposed austerity program, Cameron
may have few inducements for voters seeing their  living
standards  fall as the recovery struggles to take hold. A sale of
RBS shares could pay for a  tax cut . Cameron has also kept open
the option of giving away shares to the public. He urged Hester
last week to accelerate the bank’s return to health.  “The government’s strategy lacks room for maneuver, so the
privatization of RBS might just create a little bit of space
that suggests to voters that economic improvement is on the
way,” said Mark Wickham-Jones, professor of politics at Bristol
University. “Money could be used to reduce the deficit but
history suggests that it would give room to provide a sweetener
for the election.”  The government, which injected 45.5 billion pounds ($70
billion) into RBS, still faces a paper loss on its investment.
The bank said today its net loss tripled to 5.97 billion pounds
after it set aside an additional 1.1 billion pounds to
compensate clients wrongly sold insurance and interest-rate
hedging products.  Paper Loss  The shares were down 6.1 percent at 325.8 pence as of 3:39
a.m. in London trading. The government paid the equivalent of
502 pence a share for about 81 percent of Edinburgh-based RBS,
meaning taxpayers are sitting on a paper loss of 16 billion
pounds.  Hester, who took over from  Fred Goodwin  in 2008, has cut
assets by 907 billion pounds from their peak, eliminated more
than 36,000 jobs and scaled back the securities unit following
the bailout. The bank is trying to complete the “most
important” parts of its restructuring in 2013, he said. Efforts
to prepare RBS for disposal are being hampered by regulatory
fines for manipulating benchmark  interest rates  and provisions
for customer redress.  RBS Chairman  Philip Hampton  said today that he wants to
give the government the option to sell at least part its stake
as soon as 2014.  “Privatization is now a light coming down the tunnel,”
Hester told BBC Radio 4. “We’re doing our best to deliver a
company that other investors want to buy.”  The government hasn’t set a timetable for the disposal of
its stake in RBS, Cameron’s spokesman, Jean-Christophe Gray,
told reporters today in  London .  Hester said 2013 will be “another tricky year” for the
bank. “We are chopping away at the bad inheritance we had” and
by next year the bank will resemble a more normal company, he
said.  The bank  would “ideally” start paying dividends again at
the earliest opportunity, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  