-- Romanian Leu Gains to Month-High Before Entry to JPMorgan Index
-- B y   A s h   K u m a r   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2013-02-28T15:47:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/leu-gains-one-day-before-romania-s-entry-to-jpmorgan-debt-index.html
The leu advanced to the highest
level in a month as foreign investors bought Romania’s local
debt a day before its inclusion in  JPMorgan & Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s debt
market index.  The currency appreciated before the March 1 entry and
addition to  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s bond measure from March 31. European
stocks climbed as European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
and Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled they would
maintain monetary support measures, boosting appetite for
riskier assets.  The leu’s move is linked “to some more foreign inflows
into local currency debt instruments,” Mihai Tantaru, a
bucharest-based economist at ING Bank Romania SA, wrote in a
note today. The currency’s strengthening is “coupled with
falling yields for two-year to five-year bonds on the secondary
market,” Tantaru said.  The leu appreciated 0.2 percent to 4.3592 per euro, its
highest closing level since Jan. 21, by 5:10 p.m. in Bucharest,
after jumping 0.4 percent yesterday.  “From March, the structural flow of real money into
Romanian bonds will begin, which will mean better balance of
payments support for currency appreciation,”  Roderick Ngotho , a
London-based strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc,
wrote in a note yesterday. “Long leu is a good idea for the
medium term.”  Romania’s October 2015, January 2016 and July 2017 bonds
currently meet the criteria for index inclusion as they
demonstrate the highest degree of liquidity, according to
JPMorgan.  The country raised 4.03 billion lei ($1.2 billion) in leu-
denominated debt in February, more than the 3.7 billion lei
planned, after raising a record 11.4 billion lei last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ash Kumar in London at 
 akumar314@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  