-- Honeywell Storm-Avoidance Radar Wins European Approval
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-02-28T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/europe-clears-pegasus-jet-bound-honeywell-storm-avoidance-radar.html
Turkey ’s Pegasus Airlines will
upgrade  Boeing Co. (BA)  737s with a new radar from  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON)  capable of detecting hail and lightning as
the discount carrier seeks to cut weather-damage and turbulence-
related costs.  “As pilots will be warned much earlier of adverse weather
conditions, we foresee less damage and repairs, which will lead
to lower direct costs,” said Pegasus head of safety, Kemal
Mustafa Helvacioglu. About 45 of the carrier’s jets suffered
lightning damage last year, he said.  Honeywell, which got approval to use the radar's weather 
feature operationally from U.S. regulators last year, said today 
the European Aviation Safety Agency has now also cleared the 
expanded application of the IntuVue 3-D system. Pegasus will be 
the first European operator to use the device.  The system extends the turbulence-detection range by 50
percent, Helvacioglu said in an e-mail. “There will be less
hail ingestion or lightning strike-related damage to aircraft as
a result.”  Turbulence is the leading cause of injuries in non-fatal
accidents and can cost airlines $150,000 per incident,
Honeywell’s chief engineer, Ratan Khatwa, said in a telephone
interview. The radar, an upgrade to the RDR-4000, should allow
pilots to minimize delays and fuel burns as they circumvent
storms with a fuller picture of conditions ahead.  Storm fronts are currently missed because pilots have to
point their radar manually to gauge weather in the flight path,
leaving room for error, Khatwa said. The upgraded sensor
automatically scans the sky, easing pilot workload and building
a picture from ground level to 60,000 ft. (18,300 meters) and
out to a range of 320 nautical miles (590 kilometers), he said.  Honeywell is targeting applications beyond the 737 fleet,
Khatwa said. The basic radar is also used on airliners such as
Boeing’s 777 long-range jet and the Airbus SAS A380 super jumbo.  Istanbul-based Pegasus Havayollari AS, owned by Esas
Holding AS, announced plans in December to buy 75 Airbus
A320neos series jets to eventually phase out its 737 fleet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  