-- Euro Declines as Cooling Inflation Gives ECB Scope for Easing
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-02-28T18:51:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/euro-weakens-against-dollar-after-dutch-budget-deficit-forecasts.html
The euro fell versus the dollar,
extending its first monthly drop since July, amid Italian
political wrangling about forming a government and as cooling
regional inflation opens the door for central bank stimulus.  The 17-nation currency weakened against most of its major
peers as European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  signaled
at an event in Munich late yesterday that the bank has no
intention of tightening monetary policy anytime soon. The  U.S.
economy  barely expanded in the fourth quarter, erasing a
previously estimated contraction. The rand fell 1.7 percent
against the greenback as  South Africa  posted a record trade gap
in January.  “The euro over $1.31 looked like it was skating on thin
ice, given the unresolved situation in Italy,”  Joe Manimbo , a
market analyst at Western Union Business Solutions, said in a
telephone interview. “We’re seeing the euro trade on its own
fundamentals today, and that leaves the single-currency
vulnerable.”  The euro weakened 0.4 percent to $1.3087 at 1:48 p.m. New
York time and is down 3.7 percent this month. It was unchanged
at 121.21 yen, set for a 3.1 percent drop in February. The
dollar rose 0.4 percent to 92.63 yen.  Winners, Losers  Brazil’s real has gained 0.9 percent to the greenback and
South Korea’s currency is up 0.5 percent in February, the
biggest gainers of the dollar’s 16 most-traded peers, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The pound lost 4.3 percent, the
biggest decline, while Norway’s krone weakened 4.6 percent.  This year, the real has strengthened 4 percent as the pound
has lost 6.6 percent.  “The pound had enjoyed a haven premium for a long time,
despite the disconnect in its underlying fundamentals,” said
Noel Hebert, chief investment officer at Bethlehem,
Pennsylvania-based Concannon Wealth Management LLC, which
oversees about $250 million. “With the relative stabilization
of the euro, or at least the belief that sovereign holdings will
be made money good by the ECB, you removed the technical bid.”  Britain’s economy shrank in the fourth quarter as exports
fell and an uncertain outlook depressed company investment. The
subdued outlook prompted  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
and two other policy makers to vote for more quantitative easing
this month.  Kiwi Rises  New Zealand ’s dollar strengthened for a second day against
the greenback after the National Bank of New Zealand said its
business confidence index rose to 39.4 this month from 22.7 when
the previous survey was taken in December.  The currency advanced 0.1 percent to 82.86 U.S. cents after
advancing 0.3 percent yesterday.  South Africa’s trade shortfall reached 24.5 billion rand
($2.8 billion) last month compared with 2.7 billion rand in
December, the Pretoria-based South African Revenue Service said.
The median estimate of eight economists in a Bloomberg survey
was 9.7 billion rand.  The nation’s currency extended its decline today to 2.1
percent to 9.0061 per dollar.  Italian Finance Undersecretary Gianfranco Polillo said a
union of Pier Luigi Bersani’s  Democratic Party  and the group led
by  Silvio Berlusconi  was “the only possible way.” Berlusconi,
who left office in November 2011 with yields approaching euro-
era highs, ran on promises to reverse austerity.  Prices Gauge  Euro-zone  innflation eased to 2 percent in January from 2.2
percent in December, the European Union’s statistics office
said. Seven euro-area economies are expected to shrink this
year, with the Netherlands joining Italy, Spain, Portugal,
Greece, Cyprus and Slovenia, the Brussels-based European
Commission said Feb. 22.  “You have a lot of uncertainty in  Europe  right now,
concerns regarding political gridlock in Italy, and also
concerns about growth in the euro zone,” Sireen Harajli, a
foreign-exchange strategist in New York at  Credit Agricole  SA,
said in a telephone interview. “Those definitely have been
limiting any gains in euro, which is contrary to what we saw
earlier this year.”  The ECB will probably maintain its benchmark  interest rate 
at 0.75 percent next week, according to a Bloomberg News survey
of economists. The central bank will update its December
economic forecasts after the euro area’s recession deepened in
the fourth quarter. The European Commission sees inflation at
1.8 percent this year and 1.5 percent in 2014.  “Draghi has been sounding a little bit more dovish,”
Credit Agricole’s Harajli said. “We continue to look for a rate
by 25 basis points later on this year by the ECB. The figures we
got overnight argue in favor of our view.”  E  The Dutch  budget deficit  will breach the European Union
limit again this year and next as the economy shrinks and
unemployment increases, according to the government’s planning
agency. German unemployment unexpectedly fell in February amid
signs that Europe’s biggest economy is returning to growth.  “That doesn’t stop people from sleeping,”  Sebastien Galy ,
a foreign-exchange strategist in New York at Societe Generale
SA, said of the Dutch deficit. “It’s a fair statement to say
that if countries fairly close to  Germany  in terms of behavior
aren’t following the criteria, that weakens the hands of the
most austerity-prone people.”  U.S. gross domestic product grew at a 0.1 percent annual
rate, up from a previously estimated 0.1 percent drop, revised
figures from the Commerce Department showed.  The  Dollar Index , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, rose 0.3 percent to 81.837, after reaching
81.948 on Feb. 26, the highest since Aug. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  