-- Euro Falls Below $1.30 as Economic Weakness May Spur ECB Moves
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-03-01T22:29:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/euro-set-for-weekly-drop-dollar-gains-as-spending-cuts-begin.html
The euro fell below $1.30 for the
first time in two months after reports showed the region’s
manufacturing contracted in February and unemployment climbed to
a record.  The 17-nation currency extended a fourth weekly loss
against the greenback, the longest streak since June, as signs
the region remains stuck in a recession backed the case for the
 European Central Bank  to cut  interest rates . The Dollar Index
rose to the highest level since August as the U.S. government’s
failure to avoid automatic budget cuts, known as the sequester,
spurred investors to seek safer assets. The pound tumbled after
a British factory index unexpectedly shrank in February.  “It’s only a matter of time until we gyrate lower,” Peter Gorra, chief dealer in New York at BNP Paribas SA, said of the
euro. “It’s hard not to say that there’s something going on in
the world that means lower growth and is nervous about the
sequester, and what’s going on in  Europe .”  The euro fell 0.3 percent to $1.3022 at 5 p.m. in  New York ,
extending this week’s decline to 1.3 percent. It traded as low
as $1.2967, the least since Dec. 11. The single currency rose
0.8 percent to 121.87 yen, having depreciated 1.1 percent this
week. The dollar strengthened 1.1 percent to 93.59 yen.  Technical Levels  Futures traders  are betting  the euro will weaken against
the dollar, reversing to a net-short position of 9,394 contracts
as of Feb. 26, figures from the Washington-based Commodity
Futures Trading Commission show. The week before, large
speculators held a net-long position of 19,103 contracts.  Wagers that the pound would fall against the dollar  rose  to
36,130, the most in a year.  A technical measure indicated the euro’s recent decline
might turn around. The 14-day relative strength index against
the  U.S. dollar  reached 32, at almost the 30 level that some
traders see as sign that an asset may be about to reverse
direction.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against currencies of six U.S. trading
partners, gained 0.4 percent to 82.268, after rising to the
highest since August.  The gauge may rise to match the highest level since July
2010 after completing a “bullish outside month,” Citigroup
Inc. said, citing trading patterns.  Budget Update  Investors have sought the U.S. currency as a haven amid the
standoff between Democrats and Republicans over how to replace
the cuts totaling $1.2 trillion during nine years, known as the
sequester, $85 billion of which would occur in the remaining
seven months of this fiscal year.  The euro slid against all but two of its 16 major peers
last month, losing 4 percent against the greenback and 3 percent
against the yen. The dollar rose 0.9 percent versus the yen, a
fifth monthly gain, the longest winning streak since August
2008.  The yen, pound and euro “reflect weak economies,” Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  said today in a Twitter
message.  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco is manager of the
world’s biggest bond fund.  “Be leery of horsemeat & currency mispricings,” he wrote.
“Buy Mex peso,  Brazil  real.”  Brazil’s real gained 0.7 percent to the greenback and  South
Korea ’s currency was up 0.5 percent in February, the biggest
gainers of the dollar’s 16 most-traded peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The pound lost 4.4 percent, the biggest
decline, while  Norway ’s krone weakened 4.8 percent.  Currency Scorecard  This year, the real has strengthened 3.6 percent as the
pound has lost 7.5 percent.  Mexico ’s peso has gained 0.7 percent
to the dollar.  The zloty hit a six-week high against the euro after
 Poland ’s fourth-quarter economic growth rose more than expected,
curbing the need for further interest rate cuts.  The Polish currency strengthened 0.3 percent to 4.1378 per
euro.  A gauge of manufacturing in the 17-nation euro area was
47.9 in February, London-based Markit Economics said, below the
level of 50 that shows contraction. Unemployment in the region
climbed to 11.9 percent in January, the highest since the data
series started in 1995, the European Union statistics office
said.  Economic Weakness  “The overall picture is consistent with a euro-zone
economy that is still stuck in recession,” said  Lee Hardman , a
currency strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in
London. “There are downside risks for the euro. The ECB could
signal it is closer to further monetary easing next week.”  The pound fell to the lowest level since July 2010 against
the dollar as Markit Economics said its manufacturing gauge
based on a survey of  purchasing managers  slid to 47.9, missing
analyst estimates for a reading of 51.  “The data was supposed to be good and it came out negative
so that has taken the rug out from under sterling’s feet,” said
Jane Foley, a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Rabobank
International in London. “There is an array of negative
fundamentals for the U.K., so it’s very difficult to see silver
linings. I think sterling will be weak all year.”  The pound slid 0.8 percent to $1.5038 after dropping to the
lowest level since July 2010. Sterling weakened 0.6 percent to
86.608 pence per euro.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Neal Armstrong in  London  at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  