-- Ex-NFL Players Sue Over California Workers Comp Ban
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-02-28T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/ex-nfl-players-sue-over-california-workers-comp-ban.html
Larry Centers and Troy Vincent were
among more than 60 former  National Football League  players suing
the organization’s management council to overturn an arbitration
decision that bars them from seeking workers compensation in
 California .  The players were required under a December arbitration
award to withdraw claims in the state and banned from claiming
they are entitled to the benefits, according to a complaint
filed yesterday in federal court in San Francisco. The players
contractually waived their rights to file workers’ compensation
benefits in California, an NFL arbitrator decided, according to
the lawsuit.  The decision must be thrown out because it’s
unconstitutional and against public policy and federal labor
law, attorneys for the ex-players say in the complaint. The
players suing were all injured in California, or claim that
injuries they had were aggravated while playing in games or
practices in California, according to the complaint.  Greg Aiello , an NFL spokesman, said there are other federal
lawsuits involving athletes who played for football teams from
outside California, weren’t injured in California and breached
contracts they signed promising to file claims in their team’s
home state.  “In all those cases, the federal courts threw out the
lawsuits and confirmed the award,” Aiello said in an e-mail.
“In addition to all signing contracts promising to file
elsewhere, none of the players listed as plaintiffs in this
lawsuit had any specific injury in California and they all
played for non-California” teams.  Two similar lawsuits were filed in federal court in San
Francisco in December.  The case is Centers v. National Football League, 13-882,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California ( San
Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  