-- Facebook Buys Microsoft’s Atlas Ad-Campaign Service
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2013-03-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/facebook-buys-microsoft-atlas-ad-placement-tool-in-google-combat.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  said it will acquire
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Atlas Advertiser Suite business, adding
campaign-measurement tools that help it step up competition with
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  for online-display advertisements.  The team from Atlas will remain in Seattle, where the
business is based, Menlo Park, California-based Facebook said in
a blog posting yesterday. Atlas tools help companies choose and
place ads on websites and monitor their effectiveness.  Facebook, owner of the world’s largest social-networking
service, is seeking to accelerate revenue, which is projected by
analysts to slow for a fourth straight year in 2013. Atlas will
help in challenging Google, which gained ad-serving technology
in its $3.24 billion purchase of DoubleClick in 2008. Google
will have 18 percent of the U.S. display-ad market in 2013,
compared with Facebook’s 15 percent, according to EMarketer Inc.  “If marketers and agencies can get a holistic view of
campaign performance, they will be able to do a much better job
of making sure the right messages get in front of the right
people at the right time,” Facebook said in the posting.  With Atlas, Facebook will be able to gauge how an ad
campaign is performing on its own service and on other sites
around the Web, Brian Boland, director of monetization product
marketing, said in an interview. Using that data, the company
can help advertisers craft better marketing campaigns, including
on its own service.  ‘Better Tools’  “One of the key things that we’ve heard loud and clear is
around measurement and how important measurement is to them,”
Boland said. “This is a step toward building better tools in
the market.”  Facebook plans to improve the service for advertisers, and
that includes building out capabilities to measure promotions on
mobile devices, he said. While Atlas gives Facebook access to
advertising across the Web, the deal doesn’t signal that the
company is looking to start offering ads that widely.  “It is not any step toward an ad network,” Boland said.  The deal is part of Microsoft’s effort to unwind the
unsuccessful $6.3 billion 2007 purchase of AQuantive Inc., which
developed Atlas. Microsoft wrote down almost the entire value of
the deal last year.  Microsoft has focused more attention on building search-
based advertising, at the expense of the graphical-display ad
business that includes Atlas and the AQuantive assets. Still,
Microsoft wants to ensure that Mountain View, California-based
Google has competition. That made Facebook, a Google rival and
Microsoft partner, an attractive choice for a buyer.  As part of the deal, Microsoft will remain a user of Atlas,
said Dave O’Hara, chief financial officer for the Redmond,
Washington-based company’s online services division.  “We thought they had a good vision of where they want to
go,” O’Hara said. “We’re still a very large presence in the
online advertising business and will be for many, many years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in  Seattle  at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  