-- Facebook Ads Based on Browsing Challenge Google
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-02-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/facebook-ads-based-on-browsing-challenge-google.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , under pressure to
expand sales from its 1.1 billion users, is pushing into a
business that lets marketers buy advertisements in real time on
the basis of a member’s Web-browsing habits.  Facebook Exchange, a five-month-old service that generates
automated ad buying as users click around the site, so far has
more than 1,300 customers, Chief Operating Officer  Sheryl Sandberg  said on a call last month. Now, the company is
broadening Facebook Exchange’s global footprint, with plans to
expand in  Asia  and  Latin America .  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  is using the
exchange and other new ad services to accelerate growth and keep
alive a 52 percent stock rally from a record low in September,
when shares slumped to less than  half  their May initial public
offering price. Facebook Exchange, projected to generate $460
million in sales this year, is designed to help Facebook narrow
the gap with  Google Inc. (GOOG) , which according to EMarketer Inc.
 leads  the $15 billion U.S. display-advertising market.  “They are chasing a new pool of money,” said  Brian Wieser , an analyst at Pivotal Research Group LLC. “The exchange
is going very well, and could contribute meaningfully to ongoing
revenue acceleration.”  While most of Facebook’s business is driven by ads using
information gleaned from user profiles, Facebook Exchange lets
marketers target people based on websites they visit. For
example, those browsing car sites may later see promotional ads
for a new sedan or truck on Facebook.  Ad Pitch  To succeed, the social network will need to ensure that the
exchange doesn’t trigger a backlash from consumers put off by
tracking tools known as cookies, which share anonymous data
about where a person has spent time online. Facebook also will
need to grapple with Google and  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , which have more
than a decade’s head start in Internet-display advertising.  Those are worthwhile risks for a company seeking to bolster
revenue growth, which analysts  project  will slow to 31 percent
this year, from 37 percent in 2012. Facebook Exchange will
probably generate $460 million in sales this year, or 7 percent
of the total, said Wieser, who rates the stock a buy.  Investors, who sold stock last year on concern about the
prospects for growth in Facebook’s mobile-advertising service,
now  value  the social network at 47 times projected 2013 profit,
compared with 18 for Google on the same basis.  Real-Time Bidding  Facebook Exchange got its start in the months before the
 Menlo Park , California-based company held its IPO. Gokul Rajaram, the head of ad products, said in an interview that he
was looking for new ways to boost revenue when a member on his
team, Antonio Garcia-Martinez, proposed the idea of an exchange.  While other forms of advertising work well on Facebook, the
exchange would open ad inventory to marketers previously shut
out of the social network. The Web population spends 11 percent
of its time on Facebook via desktop computers, and 23 percent
via mobile devices, according to  ComScore Inc. (SCOR)   Rajaram took the idea to Sandberg around the beginning of
April 2012, just weeks before the IPO. She approved it, saying
Facebook Exchange could satisfy demands by advertisers that the
social network be a part of the extended display-ad market.  “It was a break from past thinking,” Rajaram said. “It
really changes the kinds of ads that people see on Facebook,
because it’s not just based on your likes, your interests.”  Challenging Google  The service is built to ensure that users’ identities are
kept anonymous and that their data isn’t shared with outside
providers buying ads on the exchange.  Facebook Exchange lets advertisers compete to automatically
place ads in milliseconds as its members refresh pages, a
process known as real-time bidding. That market is expected to
more than double to $7.06 billion in 2016 from this year,  making 
up 28 percent of U.S. display-ad spending, EMarketer said.  Facebook’s biggest challenge lies a 15-minute drive away at
Mountain View-based Google. The search engine provider dominates
the online ad-exchange market with a share of at least 50
percent, according to Wieser, thanks to its $3.24 billion
 acquisition  of DoubleClick in 2008.  Google, which offers access to websites globally and for
mobile devices, will be aggressive in defending its turf, Wieser
said.  While Facebook Exchange is projected to bring in 6.9
percent of the company’s projected 2013 revenue of $6.68
billion, it hasn’t lived up to predictions of analysts at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. because of a lack of advertisers and
adoption.  Global, Mobile  “It is difficult to come up with quarterly estimates for
revenue streams that are so new, growing so fast, and so
dependent on yet-unknown consumer behavior,” Carlos Kirjner, an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, wrote in a note.  Facebook Exchange may have contributed $20 million to $30
million in the latest quarter, according to Kirjner. The service
could provide “upside” in the future, he said.  To boost results, the company is looking to expand Facebook
Exchange globally to help more marketers reach users based on
their Web-browsing history, Scott Shapiro, a marketing manager
at Facebook, said in an interview. Mobile ads sold via real-time
bidding are also an untapped growth area.  Facebook Exchange could be enhanced further, said Zach Coelius, CEO of San Francisco-based Triggit Inc., which helps
advertisers use the exchange to reach customers. Facebook could
place ads elsewhere on the social network, making them more
prominent by moving them beyond the right column of a profile
page, he said.  Ad Demand  “We’re very encouraged by what we see, both in terms of
marketer demand and ad performance,” Sandberg said on the
January earnings call. “We see good data from our clients and
customers that it’s driving more conversions.”  Some advertisers are already spending tens of thousands of
dollars a day on Facebook Exchange, and that could rise to
around $100,000 daily in the future as the platform matures,
according to Joe Zawadzki, CEO of New York-based MediaMath Inc.
His company offers data and tools that help advertisers analyze
and improve digital-marketing campaigns.  While some real-time bidding at Facebook may have been
discretionary or in test budgets in 2012, some advertisers are
now adding Facebook Exchange as a specific budget item, he said.  “The potential is tremendous,” Zawadzki said. “Facebook
is a really powerful advertising medium.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  