-- Fed's Fisher Urges Tapering Bond-Buying on Limitations
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-02-28T23:29:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/fed-s-fisher-urges-tapering-bond-buying-on-limitations.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President Richard Fisher said the central bank should begin
tapering its asset purchases because the money it has been
pumping into the economy has probably reached the limits of
usefulness.  “We have been the source of fuel for whatever recovery we
have had, but I think there are limits,” Fisher told CNBC
television in an interview today. “I think it’s time to really,
perhaps, to taper this off. It’s not time to stop it.”  Fed policy makers are debating how long to pursue their
third round of large-scale bond purchases, with some citing
signs of economic vigor while others voice concern that buying
$85 billion in assets each month could pump up asset-price
bubbles. Chairman Ben S. Bernanke told Congress this week that
Fed policies are promoting growth.  “We’re not going to go from wild turkey to cold turkey,
but I do think we probably have run up to the limits of the
efficacy of what we’re doing,” Fisher told CNBC.  The Federal Open Market Committee in January affirmed its
plan to continue buying $40 billion per month in mortgage bonds
and $45 billion in Treasuries, though several participants said
the central bank should be prepared to vary the pace, meeting
minutes showed.  Scaling Back  Fisher, who does not vote on monetary policy this year,
yesterday in a speech in New York said the Fed should scale back
the buying to avoid over-stimulating the housing market as it
rebounds. He supports tapering the purchases so that markets can
adjust gradually.  “You don’t want to pull the legs out from underneath the
table,” he said. “I think it’s good for us to at least
socialize the concept, we may taper off, not quit entirely.”  Fisher said we’re in a “slow-growth” economy that is
improving, though it’s not moving toward job creation quickly
enough.  U.S.  unemployment  stood at 7.9 percent in February, having
ranged between 7.8 percent and 8.3 percent for the past year.  “It’s because of the uncertainty and the fog that’s been
created by fiscal authorities,” Fisher said. “People don’t
know what their tax bill is going to be, what their cost factors
are going to be, how government spending’s containment is going
to affect their customers or them directly.”  End Date  The FOMC hasn’t specified an end date for its bond
purchases, saying they will continue until the labor market
improves “substantially.” Policy makers have pledged to keep
the main interest rate near zero as long as joblessness is above
6.5 percent and inflation is projected to be no more than 2.5
percent.  Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President James Bullard,
speaking in New York on Feb. 21, projected that U.S.
unemployment may drop to 6.5 percent by the middle of next year.
Like Fisher, Bullard has spoken out in favor of adjusting asset
purchases based on changes to the economic outlook. Bullard is a
voting member of the FOMC this year.  During the CNBC interview, Fisher also said he can’t yet
predict the economic impacts of the so-called sequestration, $85
billion in federal spending cuts this year slated to take hold
tomorrow.  “It depends on how it’s handled by the political
authorities,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  