-- Fed Governor Raskin Says Bank Reputations Harmed by Bailouts
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-02-28T18:24:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/fed-governor-raskin-says-bank-reputations-tarnished-by-bailouts.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin  said banking supervisors need to pay more attention to
risks that affect the reputations of U.S. banks because
Americans’ anger hasn’t diminished over government bailouts,
subprime mortgages and foreclosures, falling home prices and job
losses.  “To large swaths of the American public who have
experienced the devastation, the causes rest squarely on the
shoulders of financial institutions, especially the largest
institutions,” Raskin said today to bankers and regulators at a
speech in Atlanta. “Those taxpayers are still unhappy about
such a massive government intervention that seemed to aid banks
that were not held to account, while distressed households were
left to pay the price.”  Raskin, a former state bank regulator, said bank directors,
managements and supervisors need to pay greater attention to how
 banks (S5BANKX)  are managing their reputations with the public. Banks may
have trouble introducing fee-generating products or lose
deposits when they suffer from poor images, she said.  “Even as the economy comes back to life, our memory of
these events is still sharp and the reputational damage suffered
by U.S. financial institutions during the crisis endures,”
Raskin said at the Atlanta Fed’s banking-outlook conference.
“Unfortunately, in the public’s view, little has happened to
restore their trust and confidence in financial institutions.”  Bernanke Comments  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said this week he wants to
end investor perceptions that the largest U.S. financial
institutions will be given taxpayer bailouts to prevent a
collapse. The Fed is among the regulators implementing the Dodd-
Frank law, the most comprehensive rewriting of financial
regulation since the 1930s, which has subjected the largest
banks to more scrutiny and higher capital requirements.  In response to a question, Raskin said there are
implications for banks’ reputations raised by a Bloomberg View
article estimating that the largest U.S. banks receive an
implicit taxpayer subsidy amounting to $83 billion a year. The
article said the subsidy arises because banks’ funding costs are
lowered by the perception they won’t be allowed to fail.  “I think the reputational elements are something that is
embedded there,” she said. If the public perceives that there
is a taxpayer subsidy, then “that is a problem.”  “That is a source of financial instability any good
regulator is going to want to focus on,” she said. “It feeds
directly into the too-big-to-fail debate.”  Reputational Risk  In her speech, Raskin said examining how bank operations
can influence their reputations needs to be part of a regulatory
overhaul.  “If we were better able to identify and monitor such free-
floating risk, and in so doing, to push bank boards of directors
and senior management to pay more attention to reputational
risk, we could help reduce the underpricing of these risks,”
she said.  Raskin didn’t comment on the U.S. economic outlook or
monetary policy in her prepared remarks.  Raskin, 51, was appointed to the Fed’s Board of Governors
by President  Barack Obama  in 2010. She previously served as
commissioner of banking regulation for the state of  Maryland .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  