-- Foreclosure Deals Drop as Banks Approve More Short Sales
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-02-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/foreclosure-deals-drop-as-banks-approve-more-short-sales.html
Short sales of U.S. homes, where the
price is less than the amount owed, outnumbered  foreclosure 
deals in the fourth quarter as lenders accelerated efforts to
dispose of troubled properties, according to  RealtyTrac .  Short sales totaled 337,000, RealtyTrac estimated, up 14
percent from a year earlier and accounting for about a third of
all residential transactions in the quarter. Sales of bank-owned
homes fell 11 percent to 112,802 and made up 11 percent of
deals, the  Irvine , California-based data firm said today.  The largest U.S. banks have stepped up short sales as part
of a $25 billion settlement they reached last year with state
attorneys general over allegations of mishandled foreclosures.
New legislation in California, Washington and  Nevada  that makes
it more difficult to seize homes also encouraged lenders to
approve foreclosure alternatives, said  Daren Blomquist , vice
president of RealtyTrac.  “The national mortgage settlement is definitely
contributing to the rise in short sales,” Blomquist said in a
telephone interview. “This report shows there are still a lot
of distressed homeowners out there needing to sell.”  Mortgages that were more than 90 days  late  fell in the
fourth quarter to the lowest level since 2008 as employment
 improved  and rising home prices helped struggling borrowers sell
without losing money, according to a Mortgage Bankers
Association report on Feb. 21. The share of loans in foreclosure
fell to 3.74 percent from 4.07 percent the previous quarter, the
biggest drop in the association’s records.  Rule Change  The S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of  home prices  in 20 U.S. cities
rose 6.8 percent in the 12 months through December. It was the
biggest increase since July 2006, the group said this week.  Short sales of homes in some stage of foreclosure took an
average of 336 days to sell in the fourth quarter, up from 308
days a year earlier, RealtyTrac said. The average sale price was
$190,031, up 2 percent from the fourth quarter of 2011.  Short sales of homes that weren’t in the foreclosure
process increased 17 percent in the fourth quarter from a year
earlier, RealtyTrac said. A rule change in November made it
easier for non-delinquent borrowers with loans backed by  Fannie
Mae  and  Freddie Mac  to sell properties for less than they owe,
Blomquist said.  A total of 219,084 properties in foreclosure or bank-owned
sold nationwide, down 10 percent from the third quarter and 1
percent from a year earlier, according to RealtyTrac.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  