-- Former Koch Employee Can Refile False-Imprisonment Suit
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-02-28T20:28:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/former-koch-employee-can-refile-false-imprisonment-suit.html
A former employee of  William Koch 
can refile a lawsuit alleging the billionaire energy-company
executive held him captive at a  Colorado  ranch, ruled a judge,
who said it’s “not a case that’s just going to go away.”  U.S. Magistrate Judge Jacqueline Scott Corley in  San
Francisco  dismissed Kirby Martensen’s lawsuit at a hearing
today, giving him leave to file again to address the issue of
whether his case should be brought in another jurisdiction.  The judge said she “didn’t buy” Koch’s arguments that,
because he had his mobile phone, Martensen can’t claim he was
falsely imprisoned at Koch’s ranch over two days in March and in
his private jet. She also said a claim by a Koch lawyer that
there’s no evidence people at the ranch were acting as Koch’s
agents “isn’t plausible.”  “The allegations are sufficient to allege false
imprisonment,” Corley said. She said a question remained
whether to try the case in  California  or elsewhere.  John Hueston , Koch’s lawyer, said the suit should be
dismissed or brought in Colorado or  Florida . While Martensen
alleges he was flown in Koch’s jet to California after leaving
the ranch, that’s not sufficient to bring the lawsuit in
California, Hueston told Corley.  ‘Reasonable Conclusion’  John Scott, Martensen’s lawyer, said the lawsuit was
properly filed in California because that’s where his client
lived while working for Koch. He said the only “reasonable
conclusion” is that the people at Koch’s ranch were acting as
his agents.  “All of these events occurred on Koch’s private ranch,”
Scott said. “All the persons there were acting with his
authorization and consent.”  Corley said that after Martensen refiles, she would
reconsider Koch’s motion to dismiss and decide whether the
lawsuit should have been brought somewhere else.  Scott didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message
seeking comment on today’s ruling.  Martensen was fired from his job as senior vice president
of Oxbow Carbon & Minerals LLC while he was at the ranch in
March. Oxbow alleges in a lawsuit filed in Florida at the time
Martensen was at the ranch that he accepted illegal bribes and
payments from Oxbow competitors.  Martensen sued in October. He alleged he was held captive
because he voiced concerns about a plan at Oxbow to avoid U.S.
taxes on $200 million in profit, and was interrogated and fired.  ‘Without Merit’  “We believe Mr. Martensen’s entire case is without
merit,” Brad Goldstein, director of corporate affairs for
Oxbow, said in an e-mail. “Mr. Martensen filed his case to
deflect attention away from his own egregious conduct.”  The brother of  David Koch  and  Charles Koch , William Koch,
72, made his fortune partly by developing underground coal
deposits in Somerset, Colorado. He maintains a working cattle
operation at the ranch, located southwest of Aspen.  Oxbow, a  West Palm Beach , Florida-based petroleum coke
export broker, and two affiliates have combined annual sales of
more than $4 billion and more than 1,100 employees worldwide,
according to the company.  The case is Martensen v. Koch. 12-05257, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  