-- Former Perry Foe White Says Texas Lagging in Skilled Jobs
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2013-02-28T15:57:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/former-perry-foe-white-says-texas-lagging-in-skilled-jobs.html
Former Houston Mayor  Bill White ,
defeated by Republican  Rick Perry  in a 2010 bid for governor of
Texas, said the state is falling behind in preparing workers who
can meet the demands of a resurgent U.S. energy industry.  Much of the job growth in Texas has been in low-wage work,
and Perry as well as other state leaders may pay the price in
the next election if they continue to allow cuts to higher
education, White, a Democrat, said yesterday in an interview at
Bloomberg’s Houston office.  “Our state and others depend on an educated workforce,”
said White, now chairman of the Houston office of  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) 
While he declined to say how long he thought it might take for
Texas Democrats to win a statewide office, he said policies of
Perry and some other leaders may influence voters.  “Eventually, people will wake up to that reality,” White
said. “Using state offices for political purposes, so long as
they do that, it’s going to be sooner rather than later.”  White ruled out a run for statewide office next year, when
Perry and U.S. Senator  John Cornyn , a Republican, are up for re-
election. The state’s other  U.S. Senate  seat was won by
Republican Ted Cruz in the November election.  In a Jan. 29 survey by Public Policy Polling, a Democratic
firm, White led Perry 47 percent to 44 percent in a hypothetical
head-to-head matchup for the governor’s office. The poll of 500
voters had a margin of error of plus or minus 4.4 percentage
points.  Economic activity in Texas increased for the fourth
consecutive month in December even as drilling activity slowed
down and the housing market tightened, encouraging builders,
according to a report yesterday by Comerica Bank.  The Texas Legislature is considering a bill promoted by
Perry to encourage programs that help students earn technical
certifications faster in energy and other fast-growing
industries, said Josh Havens, a spokesman for the governor, in
an e-mail.  About 95 percent of Texas jobs pay more than the minimum
wage and Texas leads the nation in  job creation  at all levels,
Havens said, citing Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas President
 Richard Fisher .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  