-- Fresenius, B. Braun IV Fluids Tied to More Deaths, Study Finds
-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 2013-02-28T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/fresenius-b-braun-iv-fluids-tied-to-more-deaths-study-finds.html
A type of intravenous solution made
by Fresenius SE and B. Braun Holding GmbH that’s used to treat
shock has a 10 percent higher risk of death than another
treatment, an analysis by U.K. researchers found.  Hospitals should stop using hydroxyethyl starch solution,
or colloid fluid, and instead give patients saline-based
crystalloid fluids, according to Ian Roberts, the doctor who led
the review of data from 25 previous studies that was published
today by the  Cochrane Library .  “There is no evidence of benefit” from colloid products,
“they are more expensive and there is almost certain harm,”
Ian Roberts, a professor at the London School of Hygiene and
Tropical Medicine, said in a telephone interview. “The trial
compared using saline- and starched-based fluids. There was less
death in the saline group. The obvious thing to do is to switch
to a saline.”  Colloid and crystalloid fluids are used to stabilize
patients with low blood pressure caused by conditions including
dehydration or blood loss, shock and organ damage from blood
infections. Roberts estimated that 75 percent of patients
receiving the treatment in the U.K.’s state-run National Health
Service are given the colloid version. The European Medicines
Agency said in November that it was reviewing the safety of
solutions containing hydroxyethyl starch.  Fresenius, based in the Frankfurt suburb of Bad Homburg, is
the world’s top seller of hydroxyethyl starch. Matthias Link, a
spokesman for Fresenius, said the company also makes saline-
based crystalloid fluids and is reviewing the data from the
Cochrane study. The colloid product accounts for a “low single-
digit sales volume” at the company’s Kabi intravenous-device
and treatment division, he said.  “The question is, what helps more in these cases where
there are very sick patients who have had serious blood loss?”
Link said. “Without such a blood volumizer they would die. If I
give one volumizer or another, how can I help more patients
survive?”  Closely held B. Braun, based in Melsungen, Germany, is a
competitor on the colloid product. The company declined to
comment on the data because it hadn’t had a chance to review it
before publication, spokeswoman Mechthild Claes said in an e-
mail.  “The respective issues, however, are already addressed in
the ongoing EMA procedure,” Claes said.  Colloid fluid is used widely in Europe, the U.K. and
Canada, though not as widely in the U.S., Roberts said. He said
he has written to the U.K. Department of Health asking its
National Health Service to stop using colloid fluids.  FME GY <Equity> CN  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in London at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  