-- FTC Commissioner Edith Ramirez Named by Obama as Chairman
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2013-02-28T13:58:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/ftc-commissioner-edith-ramirez-named-by-obama-as-chairman.html
Edith Ramirez, a campaign official
for President  Barack Obama  and one of his law school classmates,
will be named as head the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, where
she has been a commissioner for almost three years, according to
a White House official.  Ramirez, 44, an intellectual property lawyer, served as an
editor of the Harvard Law Review in 1990 and 1991 when Obama was
its president. In 2008, Ramirez, who is Mexican-American and
bilingual, was the Obama campaign’s Latino outreach director in
 California . She has been on the commission since April 2010.  The official asked for anonymity to discuss the appointment
because the decision has not been announced.  “She’s not as much of a known quantity as some others, but
she has a reputation for being smart and extremely capable,”
said Jonathan Kanter, an antitrust lawyer with Cadwalader,
Wickersham & Taft LLP.  Ramirez has kept a low profile as a commissioner compared
with some of her colleagues, including fellow Democrat Julie Brill, who was also mentioned as a potential chairman in press
reports in publications such as the Hill.  While Brill listed 30 speeches and interviews for 2012 on
her FTC web page, Ramirez cited eight. In her comments, Brill
has been outspoken on issues including online privacy,
protecting consumers from financial fraud and preserving
competition in the health-care and high-tech industries.  Children’s Privacy  Ramirez’s public remarks in 2012, apart from official FTC
statements, included discussion of children’s online privacy and
intellectual property issues in technology and antitrust.  Addressing agency efforts to safeguard children’s online
privacy, Ramirez said during a speech in October that she took
“some comfort from the fact that the FTC’s proposal has
generated opposition from industry and privacy advocates alike.
Perhaps that means that we are in fact on the path to toward a
regulatory ‘sweet spot.’”  In an  interview  last year, Ramirez explained why she voted
in favor of withdrawing an appeal of a court order that denied
the FTC’s request to block Laboratory Corporation of America
Holdings from buying Westcliff Medical Laboratories Inc. It was
because the merger process had already begun, she said in the
spring 2012 newsletter of the  American Bar Association ’s mergers
and acquisitions committee.  ‘Limited Resources’  The commission’s ability to obtain effective relief after
the integration “would have been very limited,” Ramirez said.
“And that was foremost in my mind, particularly given the
agency’s limited resources.”  Jeffrey Chester , of the Center for Digital Democracy, a
Washington-based nonprofit that seeks to protect consumer
interests in digital media, said, “She is concerned about how
these decisions affect everyday consumers. That’s sometimes rare
at the commission.”  Ramirez “tries to get input from all sides” he said.
“She does her homework. She listens. She’s been a team player
primarily.”  She sided with the majority of the commissioners to approve
a consent decree with Google Inc. over its use of patents that
cover key industry technology and in another case regarding
patent use against  Robert Bosch GmbH . Ramirez also spoke on
patent reform and the proper scope of injunctive relief to an
American Bar Association meeting in  Seattle  in November 2012.  Ramirez has dissented. Last February, she voted against the
commission’s delay to an order prohibiting the North Carolina
State Board of Dental Examiners from restricting anyone but
dentists from selling teeth-whitening services.  Dissenting Opinion  “The harm resulting from the board’s exclusionary conduct
will continue if the order is not enforced,” Ramirez wrote in
her  dissent . “The non-dentist providers who exited the market
after receiving cease and desist letters from the board will
likely remain out of the market unless corrective action is
taken, thereby depriving consumers of access to less expensive
services.”  The dental board appealed the FTC order to a federal court
and a decision is pending.  A graduate of  Harvard University  and  Harvard Law School ,
Ramirez was an associate at Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP and a Los
Angeles-based partner at Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP
before Obama tapped her for the FTC.  At Quinn Emanuel, she specialized in complex business
litigation, including intellectual property, unfair competition
and trademark disputes.  Early in her career, Ramirez was a law clerk for Circuit
Judge Alfred Goodwin of the U.S. Court of Appeals Court in  San
Francisco .  In September 2005, Ramirez was appointed by Mayor  Antonio Villaraigosa  to the board of commissioners for the  Los Angeles
Department of Water & Power , the nation’s largest municipal
utility, serving until February 2010.  Brill remains on the commission and another Democratic slot
is unfilled. The Republicans on the panel are Joshua Wright and
Maureen Olhausen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  