-- Fukushima Radiation Increases Cancer Risk for Girls: WHO
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n   a n d   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-02-28T12:52:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/fukushima-radiation-increases-cancer-risk-for-girls-who.html
Infants exposed to radiation near
 Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s damaged nuclear power plant have a
higher risk of developing cancer, though the threat outside the
immediate area is low, the  World Health Organization  said in the
first global assessment of risks from the 2011 disaster.  Girls in the most-affected area of  Japan ’s northeastern
Fukushima prefecture have as much as a 70 percent greater
probability of thyroid cancer in their lifetimes, while boys’
risk of leukemia is as much as 7 percent higher, the United
Nations health agency said in a  report  today.  Tepco’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant was hit by a magnitude 9
earthquake and a 15-meter tsunami on March 11, 2011, that forced
about 160,000 people to evacuate. The disaster also left about
132 square kilometers as a no-go zone, some of it uninhabitable
for decades. Doses of radiation were too low to affect fetal
development or cause  birth defects , and there’s no increased
health risk outside the prefecture, according to the WHO report.  “Outside the geographical areas most-affected by
radiation, even in locations within Fukushima prefecture, the
predicted risks remain low, and no observable increases in
cancer above natural variation in baseline rates are
anticipated,” the Geneva-based WHO said in the 165-page report.  Lifetime Risk  Today’s findings confirm a  preliminary report  published in
May that found people outside the most-affected area were
exposed to relatively low doses of radiation. The continuing
monitoring of children’s health, and of food and the
environment, remains important, the WHO said.  Japanese girls and women normally have a lifetime risk of
0.75 percent, and the additional risk for infant girls exposed
to radiation in the most-affected area is 0.5 percent, the WHO
said. The added risks in the second-most affected area are half
those in the highest-dose location, the WHO said. More than
twice as many thyroid cancers are diagnosed in women than in
men, according to  Cancer Research UK .  The UN agency said it deliberately used conservative
assumptions that may have led it to overestimate the risks.  “It’s clear that more will be detected,” Angelika
Tritscher, acting director for WHO’s food safety and zoonosis
department, said at a briefing with reporters in Geneva today,
referring to thyroid cancer. A zoonosis is an infectious disease
transmitted between species.  Breast Cancer  Infant girls exposed in the worst-affected area also have a
6 percent higher risk of  breast cancer , and a 4 percent increase
in the risk of developing any solid cancer, according to the
report.  A study by Stanford University scientists last year found
that radiation from the Fukushima nuclear plant may cause as
many as 1,300 cancer deaths globally and as many as 2,500 cases
of cancer, mostly in Japan. The WHO said it didn’t have
estimates on the number of people affected by radiation.  Emergency workers at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant have an
increased lifetime risk of leukemia, thyroid cancer and all
solid cancers, though the accident hasn’t resulted in acute
radiation effects among workers and none of the seven reported
deaths among workers is attributable to  radiation exposure , the
report said.  Radiation is measured in becquerels, and its effect on the
body is measured in sieverts. Cumulative exposure to 100
millisieverts raises the risk of death from cancer by 0.5
percent, according to Japan’s National Institute of Radiological
Sciences.  Radiation Exposure  People in the most-affected locations of Fukushima were
exposed to radiation doses between 10 and 50 millisieverts
during the first year after the accident, though some infants
had exposure to their thyroids of as much as 200 millisieverts,
according to the report. Outside of Fukushima and its
neighboring prefectures, the doses were between 0.1 and 1
millisievert, according to the report. In the rest of the world,
doses were less than 0.01 millisievert.  The nuclear plant may have emitted about 900,000
terabecquerels of radiation into the air at the height of the
disaster, Tepco said in May. The total radiation release at the
1986 Chernobyl accident in Ukraine was estimated to be about 5.2
million terabecquerels.  The Fukushima accident didn’t last as long as that in
Chernobyl, the geographic spread of radiation was less, and
people were evacuated more quickly from 20 kilometers around the
Dai-Ichi plant, Tritscher said. The evacuation was “probably
the best public health mitigation measure,” Maria Neira, the
WHO’s director for public health and environment, said at the
briefing.  Less radiation was delivered after the first year in
Fukushima than in Chernobyl because of the nature of the
radioactive material released, the report said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net ;
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  