-- Gabelli Says Market Helped by Activist Stands: Tom Keene
-- B y   S a r a h   P r i n g l e
-- 2013-02-28T18:10:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/gabelli-says-market-helped-by-activist-stands-tom-keene.html
Investors such as Bill Ackman and
David Einhorn, who buy stakes in companies and push management
for change, are good for the market, according to  Mario Gabelli ,
founder of Gamco Investors Inc.  Activist money managers are filling an information void
created by rules limiting disclosures by publicly traded
companies, said Gabelli, who oversees about $36 billion from
Rye,  New York . At the same time, regulation of short sellers and
speculators who specialize in debt could improve, he said.  “The free market is at its best when everybody works in a
fishbowl and tells you their point of view,” Gabelli said today
on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “The  hedge funds 
and portfolio managers have a right to do this,” he said. While
Wall Street brokerages used to fill the role, “We’ve muted the
analysts and their presence in the system,” he said.  The prominence of activist investors has risen this year as
Greenlight Capital Inc. founder Einhorn urged  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  to
return cash to shareholders and Ackman, of Pershing Square Group
LLC, and  Carl Icahn  took opposing positions on Herbalife Ltd.  Einhorn’s prescription for Apple, the world’s most valuable
company, is “brilliant,” Gabelli said. The hedge-fund manager
sued the iPhone maker as part of a push to get the company to
create a new class of dividend-paying preferred stock. A judge
sided with Einhorn in a ruling last week.  Gabelli, a value investor who buys stocks trading at below-
average prices relative to earnings, has clashed with executives
of companies he invests in. He prodded Cablevision Systems Corp.
to bolster its share price in 2008 and his “ Magna Carta  of
Shareholder Rights” published in 1988 took issue with
managements he said failed to keep stockholders informed.  Regulatory Framework  While praising activists, he noted “gaps in the regulatory
framework of transparency” where some money managers are not
held to the same level of disclosure as others.  “Short sellers don’t have to file 13-Fs, they don’t tell
you their positions,” he said, referring to the Securities and
Exchange Commission form detailing fund company holdings.
“Companies that buy debt, that then try to get control of a
company, never have to file.”  Gabelli also said mergers and acquisitions among companies
will continue over the next several months.  “Corporate buyers buying because they want to grow, and
that’s the dynamic that’s going to take place over the next 12
months -- lots of deals, lots of spinoffs, lots of financial
engineerings,” he said.  He said he’s bullish on companies such as  MWI Veterinary
Supply Inc. (MWIV)  and Patterson Companies Inc. that make supplies for
animal care. There will likely be more mergers and acquisitions
in the industry as people increase spending on their pets,
Gabelli said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Pringle in New York at 
 springle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  