-- Gap Profit Tops Estimates on North American Sales
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2013-03-01T15:17:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/gap-profit-tops-estimates-on-north-american-sales.html
Gap Inc. (GPS) , the biggest U.S.
specialty-apparel retailer, rose after posting fourth-quarter
profit that topped analysts’ estimates, fueled by its best
holiday shopping season in six years.  Gap climbed 1.4 percent to $33.37 at 10 a.m. in New York.
The shares gained 6.1 percent this year through yesterday after
a 67 percent increase in 2012.  Net income for the quarter ended Feb. 2 jumped 61 percent
to $351 million, or 73 cents a share, from $218 million, or 44
cents, a year earlier, the San Francisco-based company said in a
statement yesterday. Analysts on average had projected 71 cents
a share, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Glenn Murphy is working to maintain
last year’s turnaround at Gap’s namesake, Old Navy and Banana
Republic brands in North America, which drove the biggest rally
for an apparel company in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Retailing
Index in 2012. Improved merchandise and marketing, led by new
hires, resulted in a 5 percent gain in annual comparable sales,
reversing a 4 percent decline a year earlier.  “This remains one of our top picks given a variety of
changes including structural improvements and new hires that
should help the product remain consistently strong at all
brands,” Randal Konik, an analyst at Jefferies Group Inc. in
New York, wrote in a note today. Konik, who has a buy rating on
the shares, said the firm’s “bullish” call depends on Gap
continuing to boost comparable-store sales this spring.  Dividend Increase  Gap also projected profit for the fiscal year in a range of
$2.52 to $2.60 a share, an 8 percent to 12 percent increase.
Analysts on average estimated adjusted earnings for the full
year of $2.30 a share.  The company said in a separate statement that it will raise
its annual dividend by 20 percent to 60 cents, its fourth
consecutive year of increases.  Fourth-quarter sales rose 11 percent to $4.73 billion, the
highest since the quarter ended in February 2007, while revenue
for the year increased 7.6 percent to $15.7 billion.  Murphy announced a reorganization of management in October,
assigning a single global executive to lead the Gap, Banana
Republic and Old Navy brands in an effort to bring together
their online, outlet, franchise, North American and
international divisions. He also formed a new “Innovation and
Digital Strategy” team to support Gap’s e-commerce operations,
where sales grew 24 percent to $1.93 billion in the year.  ‘Solid Footing’  While regaining market share from rivals such as J. Crew
Group Inc. and  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  domestically, Gap’s
international comparable sales declined 3 percent, it said
yesterday.  The company is going to expand square footage for the first
time since 2007, focusing on Old Navy in Japan, more franchise
stores, and Athleta openings, Murphy said on an earnings call
yesterday.  Gap is set to improve “given the company’s structural
reorganization and global perspective by brand,” Konik said in
the note.  Last year, Gap hired Stefan Larsson, former head of global
sales at Hennes & Mauritz, to lead Old Navy and Jill Stanton,
the former vice president of global apparel at  Nike Inc. (NKE) , to
oversee product design, development and production at the value-
oriented chain. The company also hired U.S. designer Narciso Rodriguez as an adviser for Banana Republic and J. Crew
executive Tracy Gardner for a similar role at the Gap brand.  Gap, with more than 3,000 stores, is also testing smaller
concepts, including Athleta, Piperlime and Intermix Holdco Inc.,
a luxury retailer it acquired for $130 million last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  