-- GDF 2012 Profit Plunges After Charge on Europe Power Assets
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l   a n d   W i l l   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-02-28T15:23:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/gdf-2012-profit-plunges-after-writedown-on-europe-power-assets.html
GDF Suez SA (GSZ) , the biggest European
utility by market value, saw a 61 percent drop in 2012 profit
after writing down the value of its power plants in the region.  Net income of 1.55 billion euros ($2 billion) compared with
4 billion euros a year earlier, the Paris-based company said
today. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization rose 3 percent to 17 billion euros, in line with
analyst estimates. It offered a 1.50 euro-a-share dividend,
unchanged, and said payouts would remain at least at that level.  The 2 billion euros of charges mainly incurred on gas-fired
power stations reflect weakness in  Europe ’s power market, where
lower demand, the falling price of carbon emission permits and
the relative expense of gas compared with coal have combined to
make generation unprofitable. The trend has spurred GDF to focus
investment in  emerging markets  including  Brazil  and  Thailand .  “We have deeply transformed the group and we have
accelerated the transformation with a clear focus on energy and
priority to fast-growing markets,” Chief Executive Officer
Gerard Mestrallet said during a call with investors. “The
European energy market is undergoing lasting and deep changes.
Our gas-fired generation assets have been hit.”  GDF fell 0.6 percent to 14.32 euros by 4:04 p.m. in Paris.  ‘Demand Crisis’  Europe’s market, described as in a “demand crisis” by
GDF, forced it to revise earnings goals in December, targets
that Mestrallet confirmed today. Net recurring profit will fall
to 3.1 billion to 3.5 billion euros in 2013, from 3.8 billion
euros in 2012, and will be in the same range next year.  The charge on gas plants “is something already reflected
on the ongoing profitability as described by management at their
December investment day,” Citigroup Inc. analysts wrote. “The
results and guidance are in line with our expectations and we
see scope for positive reaction from the shares.”  GDF commissioned 6,200 megawatts of power plants last year,
90 percent in “fast-growing” markets, it said. That included
power plants in  Indonesia , Thailand, Brazil,  Peru  and Bahrain.
In contrast, the group is closing, or mothballing, more than
8,000 megawatts of capacity in Europe between 2009 and 2013.  They are “mostly” gas-fired and some such as  Belgium ’s
Herdersbrug will be transformed to operate only in peak-demand
periods, according to Vice-Chairman Jean-Francois Cirelli. Two
French natural-gas storage sites will also be mothballed.  Develop Renewables  “Our strategy in Europe is to develop in renewables,
invest in renewables and energy efficiency, and not to grow our
thermal facilities,” Mestrallet said. “We will pare those.”  GDF Suez also delayed its plan to restart Belgian nuclear
reactors Doel-3 and Tihange-2 until the second quarter from this
month. They were shut in August and September on concerns over
safety at a cost of 50 million euros a month in lost Ebitda.  “We’re confident in our ability to restart the reactors,”
Cirelli said. Hydraulic and materials tests are going ahead.  Net debt fell 2 billion euros to 43.9 billion euros in the
fourth quarter, the company said. Capital expenditure in 2012
was 10 billion euros, while asset sales will have an 11 billion
euro effect on net debt this year and next, the utility said.  “We’re making great strides” to shrink debt to about 30
billion euros by end-2014, Chief Financial Officer Isabelle Kocher said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  