-- German Stocks Advance for a Second Day as Bayer Climbs
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-02-28T09:20:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/german-stocks-advance-for-a-second-day-as-bayer-climbs.html
German stocks  climbed for a second
day, paring the  DAX (DAX)  Index’s first monthly decline since May, as
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said that he will
not withdraw measures to stem the euro area’s debt crisis.  Bayer AG (BAYN)  gained 1.9 percent after the drugmaker forecast
sales will increase 4 percent to 5 percent this year. RWE AG
rose 1.9 percent after Morgan Stanley recommended buying the
shares.  Hochtief AG (HOT)  plunged the most in 11 months after saying
that new orders will probably decline in 2013.  The DAX advanced 0.4 percent to 7,709.12 at 10:17 a.m. in
 Frankfurt  as more than two  stocks  climbed for every one that
dropped. The equity benchmark has still retreated 0.9 percent in
February as inconclusive elections in Italy prompted concern the
country will abandon its austerity program. The broader HDAX
Index added 0.5 percent today.  Draghi said at an event in Munich late yesterday that the
ECB has no intention of withdrawing its measures to combat the
debt crisis. The central bank has lowered its benchmark  interest
rate  to 0.75 percent, made long-term loans available to
financial institutions and set up a bond-buying program called
Outright Monetary Transactions.  Italy is headed for a broad coalition government as
bondholders pressure Pier Luigi Bersani and  Silvio Berlusconi  to
set aside their rivalries and form a partnership, Finance
Undersecretary Gianfranco Polillo said late yesterday.  A joint government between Bersani’s  Democratic Party  and
the forces led by Berlusconi, the three-time former premier, is
“the only possible way,” according to Polillo.  In the U.S., a report at 8:30 a.m. in Washington will show
that the world’s largest economy expanded at a revised 0.5
percent annualized pace in the fourth quarter, according to the
median forecast of 85 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The
Commerce Department had estimated that the economy contracted in
the final three months of 2012. Another  report  may show initial
jobless claims dropped last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  