-- MGIC Rallies as Mortgage Insurer Weighs Raising Capital
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-03-01T22:46:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/mgic-declines-as-insurer-s-loss-triples-to-386-7-million.html
(Correct attribution to CFO in the fourth paragraph of
story published Feb. 28.)  MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG)  reversed a
slide and rallied after Chief Executive Officer Curt Culver said
the unprofitable mortgage insurer may raise capital to cut a
risk measure that breached regulatory limits.  MGIC advanced 6.4 percent to $2.98 in  New York , after
falling as much as 16 percent. The stock has declined 34 percent
in the past year.  Culver said MGIC is evaluating ways to cut the level of
risk relative to capital, including raising external cash, after
the insurer reported a fourth-quarter loss that was wider than a
year earlier. Rival  Radian Group Inc. (RDN)  raised $689 million in a
sale of stock and senior notes this week that was larger than
originally planned. Radian jumped 4.3 percent to $8.81, and hit
a two-year high earlier today.  “There is a significant amount of capital interested in
our industry,” Chief Financial Officer Michael Lauer said on a
conference call. “We’ve got new competitors coming in, they
have attracted capital. We had the offering this week that was
well received.”  The CFO’s remarks were in response to a question from Craig Perry of Panning Capital Management LP about how MGIC would
raise external capital. Panning is one of the largest holders of
 Radian’s debt , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Please keep us in mind at Panning when you think about
external capital,” Perry said on the call.  Loss Widens  MGIC’s  net loss  widened to $386.7 million, or $1.91 a
share, from $135.3 million, or 67 cents, a year earlier, the
Milwaukee-based company said in a statement today. The measure
of risk relative to capital at the main insurance unit was 44.7
to 1 as of Dec. 31, exceeding the 25-to-1 limit set by some
regulators, and MGIC said it expects the ratio to climb.  Mortgage insurers cover lenders’ losses when homeowners
default and foreclosures fail to recoup costs. Sliding housing
prices pressured results at guarantors such as MGIC and Radian,
and mounting losses have pushed some firms from the business.
MGIC hasn’t had a full-year profit since 2006.  Fourth-quarter results include a previously disclosed cost
of $267.5 million tied to the settlement of a coverage dispute
with  Freddie Mac .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  