-- GM Guarantees German Jobs in Exchange for Pay Freeze
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a   a n d   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-02-28T16:32:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/gm-guarantees-german-jobs-until-2016-in-pay-freeze-trade.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  agreed to
guarantee the jobs of more than 20,000 German workers in
exchange for a wage freeze as the unprofitable Opel brand works
to reduce spending.  German pay increases, put on hold in November as part of
the negotiation process, will be postponed through 2015, the
Ruesselsheim-based unit said in a statement today. GM will
refrain from forced firings through 2016 as part of the deal.  GM also agreed to keep part of its facility in Bochum,
 Germany , as a components and logistics center after auto
production stops four years from now, backtracking from a threat
to close the plant at the end of next year. The decision will
secure about 1,200 of the location’s more than 3,000 jobs.  GM  Europe , which includes Opel and Luton, England-based
Vauxhall, has lost $18 billion since 1999, including a $1.8
billion deficit last year. GM reiterated targets on Feb. 14 for
the division to improve earnings this year, helped by new models
such as the Mokka and Adam, and to break even by 2015.  “It’s a first step in the right direction but Opel needs
much more restructuring,” said Florent Couvreur, an analyst at
CM-CIC Securities in Paris. “Akerson said Opel would become
profitable by mid decade. They’re far from it.”  GM shares  dropped  as much as 51 cents, or 1.9 percent, to
$26.89 and were down 1 percent as of 11:31 a.m. in  New York 
trading. The stock has declined 5.9 percent this year, valuing
the American company at $37.1 billion.  German Production  GM employs 40,000 people in Europe, including 22,000 in
Germany. Stephen Girsky, head of Opel’s supervisory board and
acting head of GM Europe, threatened in January to close the
Bochum assembly plant by the beginning of 2015 with a deal to
reduce costs as Europe’s car market sinks for a sixth year.  Opel’s main factory in Ruesselsheim will be the exclusive
location for building the Insignia and a second model will be
added at the plant, the automaker said today. The Eisenach
factory will build the Corsa and Adam small cars.  Gearbox assembly in Bochum will be scaled back to two
shifts instead of three, with 700 positions being cut in the
move, Opel said. The automaker had previously planned to cease
gearbox production entirely in the city at the end of 2013.  “General Motors fully supports Opel and is securing the
necessary financing for the coming years, until we can once
again return to profitability,” Girsky said in the statement.  Deliveries Plunge  The executive pressed for a labor agreement this month
before former  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  manager Karl-Thomas Neumann takes
over as Opel chief in March to lead the turnaround. Girsky, who
is GM’s vice chairman, will also hand over his role at the
Detroit-based carmaker’s European business to Neumann.  European deliveries by Opel and Vauxhall plunged 16 percent
last year to 834,790 vehicles, almost double the 7.8 percent
industrywide contraction. The brands have a target of keeping
their European market share stable this year after a drop to 6.7
percent in 2012 from 7.3 percent in 2011.  GM’s efforts to return to profitability in Europe include a
vehicle-development and parts-procurement alliance agreed to
last year with Paris-based  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s second-
biggest carmaker. Projects will include sharing the
underpinnings of three compact and small-car lines.  Opel plans to roll out 23 new products from 2012 to 2016,
including the South Korea-built Mokka compact sport-utility
vehicle, the Adam and the Cascada convertible coming to
showrooms in April. The brand aims to increase its deliveries
outside Europe as part of the turnaround plan.  “We still have to settle the details and cast the deal as
a labor contract and collective-bargaining agreement but this is
fundamentally speaking the breakthough,” Wolfgang Schaefer- Klug, head of the Opel works council, said in today’s statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net ;
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  