-- Goldman Playing Cowboy in Chile Seen Luring U.S. Copycats
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d   a n d   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-02-28T15:28:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/goldman-playing-cowboy-in-chile-seen-luring-u-s-copycats.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s plan to
sell bonds with a maturity of up to 50 years in  Chile  may pave
the way for more offerings from U.S. companies.  The fifth-largest  U.S. bank  by assets is seeking
authorization to issue bonds worth 20 million  unidades de
fomento , the country’s inflation-linked accounting unit, which
is equal to $966 million, according to Chile’s securities
regulator. The offering would mark the first time a U.S. company
has sold debt in the country.  Goldman Sachs may help spur more American borrowers to sell
bonds in Chile known as “huaso,” or cowboy, after Finance
Minister Felipe Larrain relaxed limits to encourage foreigners
to sell debt locally, according to insurer Principal Vida Chile.
While Goldman Sachs has the option to sell bonds due in 50
years, it’s more likely to issue five- to seven-year notes,
Banco de Credito & Inversiones said. A borrower would pay about
0.39 percentage point more to sell five-year bonds in unidades
de fomento than in dollars, according to  Bloomberg calculations .  “The  Finance Ministry  has been promoting this and it’s an
opportunity for them to diversify their funding,” Felipe Alarcon, an economist at BCI, said in a telephone interview from
Santiago. “This is the first U.S. company to issue huaso bonds
and that’s very significant and may bring others.”  ‘Actively Considering’  Goldman Sachs has 6.15 percent senior dollar bonds due in
April 2018 that yield 2.32 percent. Swapping that into Chilean
unidades de fomento would leave the borrower paying a yield of
about 3 percent plus inflation, according to Bloomberg
calculations, or 0.42 percentage point more than central bank
and government bonds.  Brazilian lender Banco Pine SA and Mexican homebuilder
Corp. GEO SAB are the only foreign companies to sell huaso debt
since Larrain first announced the initiative in March 2011. The
U.S. bank’s bond plan shows that the policy is bearing fruit,
Larrain said yesterday, according to La Tercera newspaper.  Goldman Sachs is selling the bonds in response to the
Finance Ministry’s efforts to open the local market,  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  “Chile now has the largest concentration in assets under
management per capita in  Latin America , which has made the
country one of the most attractive new debt capital markets in
the region for foreign issuers,” DuVally said.  The bank is “actively considering” opening an office in
Chile, he said.  ‘Very Appropriate’  Pension funds in Chile manage assets worth 61 percent of
Chile’s gross domestic product and equal to almost 120 percent
of the nation’s capital market, according to research by Mario Castro, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  New York .  That compares with 18 percent of GDP in  Colombia  and 3.1
percent in  Mexico .  Chile’s high savings rate and limited number of large
companies mean there is a shortage of assets available for
investment, according to Valentin Carril, who oversees $5
billion as the chief investment officer at Principal Vida Chile
in Santiago and often buys foreign bonds that he swaps back into
local currency.  Chile has the fourth-highest gross national savings rate in
 South America  after  Venezuela ,  Ecuador  and  Bolivia , according to
International Monetary Fund data.  ‘Further Diversify’  The Goldman Sachs bond sale “is very appropriate for life
insurers like ourselves,” Carril said. “It’s diversification
and we don’t have to worry about currency derivatives. When the
process of opening up markets was announced, I don’t think they
really envisaged American companies coming here. It’s big news.
This is part of Chile becoming more open to the world.”  Chilean life insurers would welcome a bond due in about 30
years as it allows them to match the average duration of their
portfolios with the duration of the annuities they sell, Carril
said. The government plans to sell 30-year fixed-rate bonds for
the first time this year.  Banco Santander Chile is advising Goldman Sachs on the
transaction, according to an e-mailed statement from the
Santiago-based bank’s press office.  Goldman Sachs’s offering in Chile will also help the bank
“further diversify” its investor base, DuVally said.  Nathan Pincheira, an economist at Banchile Corredores de
Bolsa SA in Santiago, says that while Chile has one of the
“deepest markets for inflation-linked bonds,” companies can
get cheaper financing abroad.  Less ‘Attractive’  The  extra cost  of selling 10-year inflation-linked bonds in
Chile and swapping it back into dollars is about eight basis
points, or 0.08 percentage point, according to Bloomberg
calculations that exclude the cost of the transaction.  Selling bonds in Colombia would also be cheaper. Its
government bond yields have fallen 60 basis points this year,
making it about 1 percentage point  cheaper  to sell notes in
Colombian pesos and then swap to dollars.  “I don’t know how attractive it may be from a yield point
of view as rates abroad are lower than local ones,” Pincheira
said in a telephone interview.  Chile introduced its inflation-linked accounting unit in
1967. Seventy-percent of the country’s local debt market is
denominated in unidades de fomento.  The yield on 10-year inflation-linked  government bonds  fell
10 basis points in February to 2.58 percent. The  yield  on 10-
year fixed-rate bonds dropped four basis points to 5.6 percent.  Default Swaps  The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to buy Chile’s
10-year dollar bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  widened 20 basis
points this month to 87 basis points. The spread was at a record
low 51 basis points on Jan. 25.  The cost of protecting Chilean bonds against default for
five years increased one basis point to 69 basis points at 10:23
a.m. in New York. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
if the borrower fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The peso has appreciated 1.4 percent this year. It gained
0.1 percent today to 472.71 per  U.S. dollar .  Chile has a so-called flat  yield curve  compared with the
U.S., which means companies can obtain lower borrowing costs for
similar-maturity debt, according to Gonzalo Menendez, the chief
investment officer for mutual funds at Cruz del Sur
Administradora General de Fondos in Santiago.  Chile’s 30-year inflation-linked bonds yield 2.8 percent,
nine basis points more than 20-year debt and 22 basis points
more than 10-year notes. U.S. Treasuries due in 30 years yield
3.09 percent, or 1.19 percentage points more than the 10-year
securities.  “The local long-term yield curve is very flat; this means
that they can pay a lower yield than if they went to sell at a
similar maturity in another country,” Menendez said in a
telephone interview. “Demand will come mostly from insurance
companies, to match their long-term assets with their
liabilities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net ;
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  