-- Gold Demand in India Seen Rebounding After Import Tax Maintained
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2013-02-28T12:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/gold-demand-in-india-seen-rebounding-after-import-tax-maintained.html
Gold demand in  India , the world’s
biggest user, is poised to climb after the government
unexpectedly refrained from raising  import taxes  and as prices
headed for a fifth monthly decline.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram refrained from
boosting the tax from 6 percent after it was tripled in the past
year to curb demand. All India Gems & Jewellery Trade
Federation, a grouping of retailers, traders and exporters, had
predicted the duty to climb to 8 percent. The “status quo” on
taxes is a good sign for the industry and will attract people to
gold, said Bachhraj Bamalwa, chairman of the federation.  India has boosted taxes from as low as 2 percent in January
last year after the current-account shortfall, the broadest
measure of trade, widened to an all-time high and the rupee
slumped to a record. Overseas purchases dropped 11 percent last
year from a record in 2011, the World Gold Council estimates.
Imports probably slumped as much as 50 percent to 40 tons this
month from January, Bamalwa said yesterday.  “If the duties were raised further imports would have
become unviable,” said Rajesh Mehta, chairman of  Rajesh Exports
Ltd. (RJEX) , India’s biggest gold jewelry exporter. “Demand has been
improving because of a price fall and this will give it a
further boost.”  Goldman Forecast  Gold has advanced for 12 successive years, driven at least
in part by demand from investors looking for a store of wealth
amid concern about inflation. The precious metal has lost 5.2
percent this year as economic data improved, equities advanced
and some U.S. central bankers sought more flexibility in their
stimulus program. The cycle for prices has probably turned as
the U.S. recovery gathers speed, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said
on Feb. 25, citing a collapse in investor  holdings .  “Gold prices have eased in the overseas market, making
gold available at cheaper rate on domestic bourses,” Badruddin
Khan, a vice president at Indiabulls Commodities Pvt. Ltd, said.
“Raising import duty in the current scenario may not have been
a good idea to control the demand.”  The government’s decision to introduce inflation-linked
bonds and certificates, also announced in today  federal budget ,
may make investments in gold less attractive and curb imports
for investments, he said.  Gold has fallen 4.4 percent this month, set for the longest
run of monthly losses since 1997, and was at $1,588.50 an ounce
at 4:53 p.m. in Mumbai. Gold for April delivery dropped 0.3
percent to 29,662 rupees per 10 grams ($1,696.662 an ounce) on
the Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd.  Shares Rally  Titan Industries Ltd. (TTAN) , the largest gold retailer, led a
rally among jewelry makers in Mumbai on speculation demand will
increase. Titan rose 2.3 percent to 260.90 rupees, Rajesh
Exports gained 0.3 percent to 126.40 rupees,  Tribhovandas Bhimji
Zaveri Ltd. (TBZL)  gained 0.5 percent to 190.65 rupees and  Gitanjali
Gems Ltd. (GITG)  advanced 1.6 percent to 581.80 rupees.  India’s gold imports fell to 860 tons last year from an
all-time high of 969 tons in 2011, according to the gold
council. Demand for jewelry and investment fell to 864.2 tons in
2012, the second straight year of decline, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  