-- Google Called Before EU Data Watchdogs Over Privacy Concerns
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-02-28T13:51:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/google-to-appear-before-eu-data-watchdogs-over-privacy-concerns.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  will have to appear
before a group of European Union data-privacy watchdogs as part
of a probe that may lead to what the regulators called
coordinated “repressive action” after it failed to fix flaws
in its privacy policy.  Google will be called to appear “in the coming weeks” as
regulators prepare for “repressive action, which should start
before the summer,”  France ’s National Commission for Computing
and Civil Liberties, or CNIL, said in an online  statement  today.  “Our privacy policy respects European law and allows us to
create simpler, more effective services,” Google spokesman Al
Verney said by phone. “We have engaged fully with the CNIL
throughout this process and will continue to do so going
forward.”  Google, operator of the world’s largest search engine,
faces privacy investigations by authorities around the world as
it debuts new services and steps up competition with Facebook
Inc. for users and advertisers. Google last year changed its
system to create a uniform set of policies for more than 60
products, unleashing criticism from regulators and consumer
advocates concerned it isn’t protecting data it collects.  The  Article 29 Data Protection Working Party , which
comprises national privacy authorities in the EU, decided to
pursue Google after a two-day meeting in Brussels. The group,
led by CNIL,  wrote  to Google Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page 
in October, saying Google “empowers itself to collect vast
amounts of personal data about  Internet users ” without
demonstrating that this “collection was proportionate,” and
asking the company to bring its policy in line with EU rules.  Strengthening Trust  That letter included a list of recommendations which the EU
regulators said “do not seek to limit the company’s ability to
innovate and improve its products, but rather to strengthen
users’ trust and control, and to ensure compliance with data
protection legislations and principles.”  CNIL Chairwoman Isabelle Falque-Pierrotin  said  last year
the French authority may fine  Mountain View , California-based
Google for not complying, calling it “probable” that other
European agencies would pursue Google if it didn’t.  Google may face repressive action because it failed to give
“any precise and effective” responses to the EU group’s
recommendations, CNIL said last week. Google said then that it
had answered on Jan. 8, listing changes it’s made to improve the
protections and asking to meet to discuss the case.  Earlier, Google and CNIL disagreed over the quality of the
responses to data-protection concerns. Google twice defied
requests to delay implementing the streamlined privacy policy
until CNIL could review it. Google then gave what CNIL called
“often incomplete” information in response to a list of 69
questions, earning a rebuke in May and more questions.  CNIL’s fining powers pale in comparison with Google’s
financial might. The company earned more than $10 billion last
year and CNIL’s heaviest fine to date was 100,000 euros
($131,300) -- against Google in 2011 for breaches related to its
Street View mapping service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at   cscinta@bloomberg.net  