-- Google Helped Honor FTC Chairman During Agency Inquiry
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2013-03-01T03:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/google-helped-honor-ftc-chairman-during-agency-inquiry.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  contributed $25,000 to
honor the chairman of the Federal Trade Commission while the
company was under investigation by the agency for antitrust
violations, Senate records show.  Google donated the money to Common Sense Media Inc., a San
Francisco-based advocacy group that gave FTC Chairman  Jon Leibowitz  an award for his work in developing policies to help
children, according to a January disclosure report. Google was
listed as one of the sponsors of the awards ceremony along with
several other companies, including Comcast Corp., AOL Inc. and a
charitable arm of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  At the time, the FTC was investigating whether  Mountain
View , California-based Google unfairly disadvantaged competing
websites by favoring its own services in search results. The
agency ended the 20-month probe Jan. 3 with no enforcement
action. Google agreed to voluntary changes in some search
practices and signed a consent decree regarding the use of
certain patents.  “It’s a little bit odd that they’re donating to Common
Sense Media at the exact same time they’re trying to influence
Jon Leibowitz,” said  Melanie Sloan , executive director of
 Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington , a watchdog
group. “It really looks terrible.”  Broad Support  Google has “supported these organizations’ work for at
least the past five years, long before any investigation,
alongside many other companies” including AOL, Comcast, AT&T
Inc., Microsoft Corp., and Verizon Communications Inc., said
Niki Fenwick, a company spokeswoman.  Peter Kaplan , an FTC spokesman, said Leibowitz didn’t know
that Google was among the corporate contributors to the event.
“But he is grateful and honored to accept the award from Common
Sense Media, which does so much for kids and families and
privacy,” Kaplan said in a statement.  Leibowitz, the FTC chairman since 2009, announced on Feb. 1
that he would leave the commission. The White House announced
today that current commissioner Edith Ramirez will succeed him
as chairman.  Google was the only corporate sponsor of Common Sense
Media’s April 25, 2012, awards ceremony that reported its
contribution under a 2007 law requiring registered lobbyists and
those companies and trade associations that hire advocates to
disclose to Congress their political giving. Google also
sponsored the event in 2010 and 2011, according to the advocacy
group’s website, without reporting those donations.  Marisa Connolly, a spokeswoman for Common Sense Media,
declined to comment on the donations.  Connected World  “It’s probably better to avoid this type of thing -- the
appearance raises a question or two” for both the FTC and
Google, said  Charles Elson , director of the John L. Weinberg
Center for  Corporate Governance  at the  University of Delaware .
At the same time, “in this close, connected world, things like
this will appear,” he said.  Kenneth Gross, a campaign-finance lawyer with Skadden,
Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, said the law requires
disclosure when companies play major roles in setting up events.
They aren’t required to report modest donations, such as
reserving a table.  Even so, some companies do report donations when they
aren’t required to, he said. “I’ve seen a lot companies err on
the side of disclosure,” Gross said.  Other Honorees  Besides Leibowitz, five others, including entertainers Nick Cannon and Bridgit Mendler, were honored at the event for their
work in helping children navigate media and technology. Previous
winners of the award include former President  Bill Clinton  and
filmmaker  George Lucas .  In the Google antitrust probe, Leibowitz concluded that,
while some evidence suggested the company was trying to
eliminate competition, its “primary reason” for changing the
look of search results was to improve user experience. The FTC
voted 5-0 to close the investigation.  Google agreed to let websites remove their content from
targeted search services such as Google Shopping or Google Local
without removing or demoting that content in the main Google
search engine. In the consent decree, the company also agreed to
limits on when it can seek to block sales of competitors’
products that rely on so-called standard-essential patents.  FCC Honors  This is at least the second time Google helped recognize
top regulators in the middle of a government probe.  In October 2011, Google reported spending $80,000 to honor
Federal Communications Commission Chairman  Julius Genachowski 
and Commissioner Michael Copps, Senate records show.  The FCC announced an investigation of Google’s Street View
product in November 2010. It ended the probe in April 2012 after
fining Google $25,000 for failing to cooperate with
investigators, which drew this admonition from Senate Majority
Whip  Richard Durbin , an Illinois Democrat, the following month:
“How are you protecting our privacy with a $25,000 fine?”  As Google has come under scrutiny, it has boosted its
lobbying spending and its political action committee donations
to federal candidates.  Google spent $18.2 million on lobbying last year, including
$1.7 million by its Motorola Mobility subsidiary acquired in
May, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a research
organization. That was almost double the $9.7 million it spent
on  Washington  advocacy in 2011.  Lobbying Increase  The increased spending boosted the company into the top 10
lobbying organizations, according to the Washington-based
center, which tracks expenditures.  Its PAC gave $885,500 to candidates for 2012 federal
elections, more than double the $343,000 in donations made for
the 2010 races, according to center data.  In addition, those working for Google and their families
gave $805,120 to President  Barack Obama ’s re-election campaign,
second only to those at  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  among corporate
employees, the center’s data show.  “When you start having problems, you start lobbying, you
start making political donations and you start financing the
favored charities of those you wish to influence,” Sloan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 