-- Grupo Bimbo Wins Hostess Beefsteak Auction
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-03-01T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/grupo-bimbo-wins-hostess-beefsteak-auction.html
Grupo Bimbo SAB (BIMBOA)  won an auction to
buy bankrupt Hostess Brands Inc.’s Beefsteak bread brand,
beating an initial bid by  Flowers Foods Inc. (FLO)  with a $31.9
million offer.  Grupo Bimbo, the Mexico City-based maker of Sara Lee
products, Entenmann’s cakes and Thomas English Muffins, topped
Flowers’ $30 million opening offer for the rye-bread brand
yesterday, Hostess said in a statement. No rivals challenged
Flowers’ $360 million bid for the majority of Hostess’s bread-
making business, including its Wonder brand, and an auction
planned for yesterday was canceled.  “The proposed sales will result in significant proceeds
for the benefit of the company’s stakeholders and ensure the
beloved bread brands can continue to be enjoyed for years to
come,” Hostess Chief Executive Officer Gregory F. Rayburn said
in the statement.  The company is scheduled to seek bankruptcy court approval
to sell the assets to the auction winners at a March 19 hearing.
Hostess, founded in 1930, is liquidating after failing to reach
an agreement with striking bakers on concessions to help the
company emerge from its second bankruptcy.  Keith Hancock, a spokesman for Flowers, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail yesterday seeking comment on its winning
bid. David Margulies, a spokesman for Grupo Bimbo, declined to
comment.  Wonder Bread  Flowers, based in Thomasville,  Georgia , will get Hostess’s
Wonder, Butternut, Home Pride, Merita and Nature’s Pride brands,
20 bread plants, 38 depots and other assets. The company,
established in 1919, produces and markets packaged baked goods
for retail and food-service customers under brands including
Nature’s Own and Tastykake.  Hostess will sell more bread and snack-cake brand assets
this month, including Twinkies, with initial offers totaling
about $466.4 million, according to court documents. Rayburn said
Jan. 31 that so-called stalking-horse bids total about $858
million with about $100 million more for sale.  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and C. Dean Metropoulos & Co.
have offered about $410 million for the Hostess snack-cake
business, which includes Dolly Madison brands, five bakeries and
equipment. Bids for the March 13 snack-cake auction must be
submitted by March 11.  Leon Black’s Apollo, based in New York, managed $109.7
billion in assets as of Sept. 30. Metropoulos, based in
Greenwich, Connecticut, is the private-equity firm that owns
Pabst Brewing Co.  McKee Offer  McKee Foods Corp., maker of Little Debbie snacks, made a
bid of $27.5 million for the Drake’s brand. United States Bakery
Inc. offered to buy the Sweetheart, Eddy’s, Standish Farms and
Grandma Emilie’s bread brands, four bakeries and 14 depots, plus
certain equipment, for about $28.9 million. Both initial offers
will be tested at March 15 auctions. Bids are due by March 12
for both auctions.  Previously known as Interstate Bakeries Corp., Hostess left
an earlier bankruptcy in 2009 under the control of buyout firm
Ripplewood Holdings LLC and lenders. The company, based in
Irving,  Texas , entered bankruptcy again in January 2012.  The case is In re Hostess Brands Inc., 12-22052, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (White Plains).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  