-- GSK, VirnetX, Tivo, LVMH, Kolon: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-02-28T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/gsk-virnetx-tivo-lvmh-kolon-intellectual-property.html
ViiV Healthcare Ltd. , a joint
venture of  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and two other drugmakers, plans
to license pediatric versions of its HIV drug abacavir to a
patent-sharing body backed by the United Nations to improve
children’s access to treatment.  ViiV will grant the voluntary license to the medicines
patent pool for the drug in the 118 countries where 99 percent
of children with HIV live, it said in a  statement  yesterday.  About 3.4 million children have HIV worldwide, and 72
percent of those in need of treatment don’t have access to
appropriate care because of a lack of affordable medicines,
according to ViiV. ViiV and other drugmakers including  Gilead
Sciences Inc.  also work with generic licensing partners in
countries including India and South Africa to produce low-cost
version of HIV therapies to sell in developing countries.  “This agreement with the medicines patent pool builds on
the existing 13 licenses granted to our generics partners,”
Chief Executive Officer Dominique Limet said in a statement.
“The overarching goal of our efforts is to improve the lives of
children living with HIV.”  ViiV is Glaxo’s joint venture with New York-based  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE)  and Japan’s  Shionogi & Co. (4507)   VirnetX $368 Million Jury Verdict Against Apple Upheld by Judge  VirnetX Holding Corp. (VHC) ’s $368.2 million jury victory against
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  over patents for virtual-private-network technology
was upheld by a federal judge.  U.S. District Judge Leonard Davis in Tyler,  Texas , denied
Apple’s requests for a new trial or a reduction in the damage
award. VirnetX lost its bid for an order that would have limited
Apple’s ability to provide virtual private networks on its
products, and the judge ordered the two sides to confer within
the next 45 days to work out a license for future use of the
technology.  A federal jury in Tyler in November said Apple’s VPN on
Demand and FaceTime features, used on the iPhone, iPod Touch and
iPad as well as Mac computers, infringed four VirnetX patents.
There was “substantial evidence” to support both the finding
of infringement and the damage award, Davis wrote yesterday.  “We are extremely pleased with the court’s order in our
suit against Apple,” VirnetX Chief Executive Officer Kendall Larsen said in a statement. “We look forward to negotiating a
license with Apple that includes an ongoing royalty agreement.”  Officials with Cupertino, California-based Apple didn’t
immediately return e-mail messages seeking comment.  VirnetX, based in Zephyr Cove,  Nevada , had asked for at
least $708 million in the trial, while Apple argued the patents
were worth no more than $9.1 million. VirnetX also said it would
drop its U.S. International Trade Commission case against Apple
over other patents and instead pursue further damages in the
Texas court.  VirnetX had won a $200 million settlement from Microsoft
Corp. in 2010 over the same technology and has claims pending
against  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  A trial on the Cisco claims is
scheduled to begin March 4.  The case at trial is VirnetX Inc. v. Cisco Systems Inc.,
10-cv-00417, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas
(Tyler).  TiVo CEO Expects to Keep Virgin Media as Customer After Buyout  TiVo Inc. (TIVO) , the developer of digital-video recorders,
expects no change in its relationship with  Virgin Media Inc. (VMED) 
after the U.K. cable operator is bought by a competitor that has
introduced its own set-top box.  “Virgin is doing dramatically well with TiVo,” adding
about 1.4 million customers last year, TiVo Chief Executive
Officer Tom Rogers said yesterday in an interview.  Rogers said he sees no disruption in the relationship with
 Virgin Media , the cable company that John Malone’s  Liberty
Global Inc. (LBTYA)  plans to buy for $16 billion in cash and stock in a
deal announced on Feb. 6. TiVo has rapidly expanded business
with pay-TV operators after favorable court rulings upheld key
patents, Rogers said.  The digital-recording pioneer widened margins in 2012 by
selling advanced set-top boxes with more storage and the ability
to record several shows at once. TiVo is transforming itself
from a video-recorder provider into one that can shift content
around the home and on the go, Rogers said.  Liberty Global, based in Englewood,  Colorado , and operating
in European markets, introduced its own Web-enabled set-top box
in 2012, Horizon TV. The company plans to expand the product,
now in Holland and Switzerland, to Ireland and Germany, CEO
Michael Fries said on a Feb. 14 conference call.  TiVo’s net loss widened to $15.8 million, or 13 cents a
share, in the period ended Jan. 31, from a loss of $7.2 million,
or 6 cents, a year earlier, according to a statement yesterday.
Analysts had projected a loss of 12 cents, the average of
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Revenue grew 34 percent to $88.9 million. That exceeded
analysts’ projections of $84.4 million, the average of 11
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The company added 209,000 subscribers in the quarter, down
11 percent from 234,000 added a year ago, ending the year with
more than 3.1 million. TiVo is pursuing patent infringement
litigation against  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility and Cisco
Systems Inc. over use of recording technology in the set-top
boxes they make.  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  is a defendant in both
cases.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  American Cruise Lines Says American Queen Violated Settlement  American Cruise Lines Inc., a Connecticut-based travel
company, sued a competitor in a trademark dispute and is seeking
at least $12 million in damages.  HMS American Queen Steamboat Co. LLC  of Memphis, Tennessee,
is accused of violating a settlement agreement of a previous
trademark suit involving the use of the term “Great American
Steamboat,” according to the complaint filed in federal court
in Delaware on Feb. 26.  American Cruise Lines  said that as part of the settlement,
it agreed to pay $125,000 to American Queen for the right to the
term. Additionally, both parties would agree that neither would
use “Great American Steamboat” in a “cooling off” period
from Nov. 5, 2012, to Feb. 9.  Regardless of the agreement, American Queen has continued
to use “Great American Steamboat” trademarks and related
Internet domain names, American Cruise Lines claims. The
Tennessee company is also causing its business telephone number
to be associated with the mark, according to the complaint.  American Cruise Lines says its studies indicate that by the
end of December 2012, 15 percent of the Internet searches for
“Great American Steamboat Co.” continued to be directed to
American Queen’s websites. The Connecticut company says it’s
harmed by these actions and that the public is confused and is
likely to assume falsely that an affiliation exists between the
disputed trademark and American Queen.  In addition to seeking a finding that American Queen has
violated the settlement agreement, American Cruise Lines asked
the court to order surrender of the offending domain names, and
a transfer of all prospective customers names obtained after
Nov. 2012 from Internet searches and telephone directory-
assistance system inquiries involving its trademarks.  The Connecticut company also asked for a discontinuance of
any Great American Steamboat ads that link to the “Great
American Steamboat Co.” trademark, and for awards of $12
million in damages, in addition to attorney fees and litigation
costs.  American Queen didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment.  The case is American Cruise Lines Inc. v. HMS American
Queen Steamboat Co. LLC, 1:13-cv-00324-UNA, U.S. District Court,
District of Delaware (Wilmington). The earlier case is American
Cruise Lines Inc. v. HMS American Queen Steamboat Co LLC, 1:11-
cv-000889-JEI-KW, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  For trademark news, click here.  Copyright  DKNY Says ‘Sorry’ to Photographer, Donates $25,000 to YMCA  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) ’s DKNY label has
apologized to a New York photographer whose photos were used in
a DKNY window display in Bangkok without his permission, the  BBC 
 reported .  Photographer Brandon Stanton, whose images appear in his
 Humans of New York  blog, rejected an offer from the clothing
company to license the images for $15,000 according to the BBC.  He said the offer was too small and asked for more money,
which DKNY refused to give him, the BBC reported.  DKNY then apologized, and, in response to Stanton’s
request, donated $25,000 to a YMCA in New York, with the
photographer asking his fans to give the charity another $75,000
to help send underprivileged children to summer camp, according
to the BBC.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Government Told to Try Harder to Serve Kolon Industries  A criminal trade-secrets theft trial against South Korea’s
 Kolon Industries Inc. (120110)  was delayed after a federal judge ruled
that the company hadn’t been properly served with court papers.  U.S. District Judge Robert Payne in Richmond,  Virginia , in
a Feb. 22 order, said that the government is “directed to
proceed expeditiously” to serve Kolon with the appropriate
court documents.  In a 59-page opinion, Payne cited the deficiencies of each
of the government’s attempts to deliver the legal papers to
Kolon. He directed the court officials to issue a summons, upon
the request of the government, for Kolon to appear on June 7,
or, if the summons isn’t served by that date, then on the third
Thursday following the delivery of the summons.  In October, an indictment was unsealed alleging the company
and some of its employees engaged in what the Justice Department
called “a multiyear campaign” to acquire trade secrets related
to DuPont Co.’s Kevlar fiber  and a second fiber made by Japan’s
 Teijin Ltd. (3401)   The government  accused Kolon of a scheme to use purloined
trade secrets so it could bring its Heracron fiber to market
quickly in order to compete with Kevlar. The company was charged
with one count of conspiring to convert trade secrets, four
counts of theft of grade secrets and one count of obstruction of
justice.  Kolon allegedly targeted current and former employees from
DuPont and Osaka-based Teijin and hired them to serve as
consultants, then asked them to reveal their former employers’
trade secrets.  In September 2011, in a civil case brought by DuPont, a
jury in federal court in Virginia awarded DuPont $919.9 million
for trade-secret theft. The Korean company said at the time that
the case was “the result of a multiyear campaign by DuPont
aimed at forcing Kolon out of the aramid fiber market,” and it
would appeal the verdict.  In the same case in 2012, also overseen by Payne, the court
ordered Kolon to quit manufacturing Heracron for 20 years. Kolon
filed an appeal and a federal appeals court granted a stay of
the order.  The criminal case is U.S.A. v. Kolon Industries Inc., 3:12-
cr-00138-REP, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Virginia
(Richmond).  The civil case is E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Co.
v. Kolon Industries Inc., 3:09-cv-00058-REP, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 