-- IBM Chief Rometty Boosts Analytics Sales Goal to $20 Billion
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-02-28T22:13:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/ibm-s-rometty-boosts-analytics-sales-goal-to-20-billion-by-2015.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) , the largest technology services provider, said its
business-analytics unit will add $4 billion more in revenue than
expected.  The company raised its goal for annual sales from analyzing
business data to $20 billion by 2015, from an earlier $16
billion, Chief Executive Officer Ginni Rometty told investors at
a presentation today. Customers are increasingly relying on
analytics to study the flood of data coursing through their
businesses, she said. Revenue from the category in 2010, when
IBM set the first goal, was about $10 billion.  “Data will be the basis of competitive advantage for every
company, for every industry, for the next decade” Rometty said,
based on her meetings with 500 chief executives of IBM clients
last year.  In 2012, IBM’s business-analytics revenue grew 13 percent,
the company has said. Raising its sales goal for the analytics
segment could help ease investor concerns about the company’s
growth as a whole. Total annual  revenue  at the Armonk,  New York- 
based company is up less than 1 percent since 2008.  IBM has divested $15 billion in revenue over the past 10
years, Rometty said.  “If we had not, we would be a much larger company,” she
said. “Potentially a faster-growing company. But we would be a
way lesser-margin company.”  Higher Margins  Instead of focusing on sales, the company has emphasized
gains in  earnings per share . IBM has added higher-margin
software that handles data analysis and continued its shift away
from less-profitable hardware and services contracts. IBM
expects to generate more than half of its profit from software
by 2015.  IBM has been thinking of ways to drive better performance
from its businesses with lower margins, including some labor-
based services, legacy application services and its industry-
standard computer business, Chief Financial Officer Mark Loughridge said.  Since 2005, IBM has spent more than $16 billion on 35
 acquisitions  to boost its analytics capabilities. Tealeaf
Technology, which IBM bought in June, helps chief marketing
officers analyze customer behavior, for example. Star Analytics
Inc., which IBM said it would buy this month, integrates
business information and helps sort out what’s important,
eliminating time-consuming steps for data analysis.  IBM also has developed some of its own products with an
analytics focus. The technology behind Watson, the computer that
beat humans on “Jeopardy!” in 2011, evolved into several tools
for health-care providers assessing cancer patients. At today’s
meeting, taking place at IBM’s research lab in  San Jose ,
 California , Watson devised some of the food for the investors’
lunch, said  John Kelly , IBM’s head of research.  IBM’s shares fell less than 1 percent to $200.83 at the  New
York  close. They have risen 4.8 percent this year, compared with
a 6.2 percent gain in the  Standard & Poor’s  500 index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  