-- Libor Claim Thrown Out in Deutsche Bank U.K. Swap Lawsuit
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-02-28T17:33:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/libor-claim-thrown-out-in-deutsche-bank-u-k-swap-lawsuit.html
A judge rejected Indian property
firm  Unitech Ltd. (UT) ’s bid to add accusations of interest-rate
rigging to its U.K. lawsuit against  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  over a swap
agreement.  Germany ’s largest bank didn’t imply the London interbank
offered rate was honest by linking a $150 million loan and
interest rate swap to the benchmark, Judge Jeremy Cooke said in
rejecting Unitech’s request to change its claim. The New Delhi-
based company and a unit “were relying on their own judgment.”  Unitech said in court papers for today’s hearing it
wouldn’t have agreed to the loan or swap had it known Deutsche
Bank was manipulating Libor, making both agreements invalid.
Requiring banks to make implicit promises about the entire
Libor-setting process in contracts is “unrealistic,” the judge
said.  Deutsche Bank and more than a dozen other lenders are being
investigated by regulators worldwide over rate rigging. Though
the bank has suspended seven employees so far and is under
pressure to release results of an internal probe into Libor
submissions, it hasn’t been censured by regulators.  Kathryn Hanes, a Deutsche Bank spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately reply to an e-mail seeking comment. Unitech’s lawyer
 Richard Gwynne  declined to comment outside court.  Unitech was the second U.K. plaintiff seeking to use rate-
manipulation allegations in a case over swaps that turned out to
be costly. Affiliates of Guardian Care Homes Ltd. won permission
in October from Judge Julian Flaux to accuse  Barclays Plc (BARC)  of
benefiting from its attempts to fix the benchmark. About $300
trillion of contracts worldwide are tied to Libor.  Different Interpretation  While Cooke conceded his interpretation had been different
from Flaux’s, “every case will turn upon its own facts,” he
said. He gave Unitech permission to appeal his decision, saying
it would be helpful for a higher court to hear the issues.  Deutsche Bank sued Unitech last year saying it owed
$11 million under an interest-rate swap and hadn’t repaid a
$150 million loan to a lending group. Unitech countersued
claiming the rate swap wasn’t suitable or properly explained.  The case is Deutsche Bank AG v. Unitech Limited,  High Court 
of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division, 12-464  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at   cscinta@bloomberg.net  