-- IMF Says It Will Lower U.S. Outlook Because of Sequestration
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-02-28T16:56:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/imf-says-it-will-lower-u-s-outlook-because-of-sequestration-1-.html
The International Monetary Fund will
lower its growth forecasts for the U.S. this year because of the
$85 billion in spending cuts set to begin tomorrow, an IMF
spokesman said.  “Sequestration in the U.S. is one of the key issues of the
moment,” spokesman William Murray told reporters in Washington
today. “What it means is we’ll have to reevaluate our growth
forecasts in the U.S. and also our other forecasts.”  Murray said the IMF, which currently forecasts 2 percent
growth for the U.S. this year, expects a negative  impact  of at
least 0.5 percentage point if all the cuts go into effect. He
said the spending reductions will also hurt global growth as a
decline in demand from the world’s largest economy hits its
trade partners. The new forecasts will be released next month in
the World Economic Outlook report.  For all the concern in Washington about the cuts, investors
are signaling that the economy is strong enough to weather any
reductions in spending, with home sales,  consumer confidence  and
employment rebounding.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has climbed 6.5 percent
this year. Yields on 10-year Treasuries have dropped 10 basis
points since Jan. 31, and were at 1.89 percent at 11:51 a.m.  New
York  time. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was up 0.2 percent at
1,518.68.  President Obama  President  Barack Obama  summoned congressional leaders to a
meeting at the White House tomorrow, with parties far apart on
how to replace the cuts totaling $1.2 trillion over nine years,
with $85 billion in the remaining seven months of this fiscal
year.  Murray also said the IMF has received new fiscal
projections from Egypt, which is seeking to secure a $4.8
billion loan from the fund. The fund is analyzing the forecasts
and will discuss with authorities on the next steps to take, he
said.  He declined to comment directly on Italy’s inconclusive
elections, which have fueled concern about the outlook for the
euro region, and the country’s deepening recession.  Instead, he said Italy should maintain recent progress it’s
made on fiscal policies and make sure budget consolidation comes
after a thorough review of spending and includes taxes. It must
also accelerate an overhaul of the labor and product markets, he
said.  “Growth and employment in Europe is weak,” Murray said.
“Getting the pace of fiscal consolidation right is of the
essence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  