-- India Sets $2.6 Billion Capital Infusion Target for Lenders
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2013-02-28T12:09:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/india-budget-sets-2-6-billion-capital-infusion-target-for-banks.html
India set its target for capital
infusion into state-run banks at 140 billion rupees ($2.6
billion) for the next fiscal year to help lenders comply with
tighter rules and boost credit growth.  “Our banks will always meet the Basel III norms, which are
coming in a phased manner,” Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said today in New Delhi, while presenting the
 federal budget  for the year ending March 2014 to the parliament.
He didn’t specify how the money will be invested.  Increasing the risk buffers would allow state-run lenders,
which account for three-fourths of lending, to boost credit and
revive an economy that’s set to expand at the slowest pace in a
decade. India’s banks will need to raise as much as 1.75
trillion rupees from equity sales to meet the Basel III capital
rules, according to estimates from the central bank.  State-run banks will need as much as 910 billion rupees in
equity capital from their biggest shareholder to comply with the
rules over the next five years if the government wants to
maintain its current stakes in the lenders, Reserve Bank of
 India  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao  said in a speech  on Sept. 4. The
banks will also need to sell 590 billion rupees of shares to
other investors, he estimated.  Credit Growth  The extra capital is required to ensure that the banks can
continue to meet the regulatory requirements, while bolstering
credit growth, Subbarao said at that time. Bank credit is
currently at about 55 percent of gross domestic product, and
needs to be higher to boost economic expansion, he said.  The S&P BSE Bankex index, which tracks 14 Indian lenders,
fell 3.6 percent, the most in a year.  State Bank of India , the
nation’s largest lender by assets, fell 6 percent to 2,080.90
rupees at the close in Mumbai.  “Those who held on to the stocks in expectation of
aggressive announcements in the budget to revive capital markets
and the economy, sold,” said Hatim Broachwala, a Mumbai-based
banking analyst at Karvy Stock Broking Ltd.  India’s central bank on Dec. 28 said it would postpone
starting the implementation of new capital rules under the Basel
III agreement until April 1, from an original deadline of Jan.
1, following delays by the U.S. and European Union regulators in
issuing the final standards for their markets.  Minimum Capital  In India, the rules would require banks to have minimum
Tier 1 equity capital at 5.5 percent of risk-weighted assets by
March 2015, up from the current 4.5 percent, the RBI said in
May. The minimum Tier 1, or core, capital will be raised by 100
basis points to 7 percent, according to the rules.  State-run lenders may be required by the government to meet
tighter requirements. They currently face a Tier 1 capital-ratio
target of 8 percent, and must have a minimum total capital-
adequacy ratio of 12 percent.  The government last year proposed investing 158.9 billion
rupees in state-run lenders for the year ending in March. Prime
Minister Manmohan Singh’s administration has given its approval
to infuse 125 billion rupees into 10 banks by March 31,
Chidambaram told reporters on Jan. 10, without naming the banks.  State Bank’s board on Jan. 19 approved a preferential
allotment of shares to the government for raising 30 billion
rupees of capital. The Mumbai-based bank’s  Tier 1 capital ratio 
was at 8.66 percent as of Dec. 31, and its capital-adequacy
ratio was 12.21 percent. The government had invested 79 billion
rupees in the lender by buying preferential stock in March after
its Tier 1 capital fell below the target.  Punjab National  Punjab National Bank (PNB) , the country’s second-largest
government-controlled lender, also received approval from its
board on Jan. 17 to raise 12.5 billion rupees by a preferential
allotment, exchange filings show. The lender’s Tier 1 ratio was
8.62 percent by the end of 2012.  India, which faces the highest  fiscal deficit  among the
major emerging economies, can reduce the burden it faces to
recapitalize the banks by letting its shareholding in the
lenders fall to 51 percent, from about 70 percent, Subbarao said
last year. That would reduce its equity infusion to less than
700 billion rupees, he said.  India’s  economy  is set to expand as much as 6.7 percent in
the year ending March 2014, the government said in the Economic
Survey published yesterday. The country’s gross domestic product
will rise 5 percent in the 12 months through March 2013, the
least in a decade, a government forecast showed on Feb. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  