-- India Will Increase Taxes on Power-Station Coal, Bauxite
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h   a n d   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2013-02-28T10:17:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/india-will-increase-taxes-on-power-station-coal-bauxite.html
India  will raise  import taxes  on
thermal coal and export duties on bauxite, part of a plan to
increase government revenue and plug a widening budget deficit.  Overseas purchases of steam and bituminous coal, both used
by power producers, will attract a customs duty and a
countervailing duty of 2 percent each, Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram said in his  budget speech  to lawmakers
in New Delhi today. Bauxite exports, which are duty-free now,
will be taxed at 10 percent.  Higher coal taxes will raise the generating cost of
electricity companies, which have been forced to increase coal
imports after local supplies fell short of demand. The tax on
exports of bauxite, used to produce aluminum, may boost local
supplies amid mining curbs that have reduced output in Odisha,
the largest producing state.  “Thermal  power plants  using imported coal entirely will
see their power generation cost increasing by at least 5 to 6
paise per kilowatt hour,” said Debasish Mishra, senior director
at Deloitte Youche Tohmatsu India Pvt. in Mumbai. “The ones
more dependent on imported coal will see a higher price rise
than those using local coal or with limited blending.”  Countervailing duty is a tax placed on imported goods that
are being subsidized by the importing government. This helps to
even the playing field between the domestic producers and the
foreign producers receiving subsidies.  Steam coal, which accounts for most of India’s imports for
power stations, has a 1 percent countervailing duty and no
customs tax, while bituminous coal, which has a higher heat
value, has 5 percent customs tax and 6 percent countervailing
duty. Indian power producers mostly prefer steam coal.  A shortage of bauxite forced  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  to shut
its alumina refinery in December, leaving its planned $9 billion
aluminum project in the eastern state of Odisha in a state of
uncertainty.  Coal Classified  Under the Customs Tariff Act, coal has been classified as
anthracite, bituminous, coking and steam coal. While steam coal
is only used for electricity generation, most bituminous coal is
used for making sponge iron and as a partial substitute for
metallurgical coal.  Coal imports by power producers, steelmakers and cement
makers was 100 million metric tons in the nine months ended Dec.
31, widening the nation’s current account deficit. Imports are
expected to reach 185 million tons in the year ending March 2017,
Chidambaram said.  “The costs for utilities importing coal will increase as a
large portion of the commodity is of the steam variety on which
customs duty has doubled,” said Rakesh Arora,  head of research
at Macquarie Capital Securities (India) Pvt. “There won’t be
any major impact on imports as the requirement of coal for power
is quite high.”  Delayed land acquisitions, environmental approvals and lack
of railway transport has impeded the expansion plans of  Coal
India Ltd. (COAL)  The Kolkata-based company, which produces more than
80 percent of India’s coal, may consider involving private
companies as partners to boost production.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  