-- India Pledges $370 Million to Start Women’s Bank, Promote Safety
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-02-28T10:39:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/india-pledges-370-million-to-start-women-s-bank-promote-safety.html
India ’s government said it will
create the country’s first bank exclusively for women, and set
up a fund to boost female empowerment in honor of the victim of
a brutal gang rape that reverberated around the world.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram announced the
state-owned bank will be provided with 10 billion rupees ($185
million) in initial capital and will mostly lend to women-run
businesses and self-help groups. He said he plans to get a
license for the lender by October. The proposed Nirbhaya Fund
will also be given 10 billion rupees, with the Ministry of Women
and Child Development given charge of assessing priorities.  “Recent incidents have cast a long, dark shadow on our
liberal and progressive credentials,” Chidambaram said in his
budget speech today. “We have a collective responsibility to
ensure the dignity and safety of women.”  The murder and gang rape of a medical student on a moving
bus in December shocked India, drawing attention to the scale of
sexual violence in the world’s largest democracy. India was
named the fourth worst place in the world to be a woman after
 Afghanistan , the  Democratic Republic  of Congo and  Pakistan  in a
2011 survey by the Thomson Reuters Foundation.  The survey cited female feticide, human trafficking, sexual
violence and poor education for India’s low score in the global
rankings.  Missing Women  Two of the most powerful women in Indian politics --
president of the ruling Congress party,  Sonia Gandhi , and  Sushma
Swaraj , the leader in the lower house of the main opposition
 Bharatiya Janata Party  -- banged their desks in praise after the
program was announced.  Women make up just 24 percent of India’s workforce of 478
million people, according to a  report  last year called “India’s
Economy: The Other Half” by the Center for Strategic and
International Studies based in  Washington . Among senior-level
employees, women account for 5 percent, compared with a global
average of 20 percent, the report said.  As more women enter public spaces for work or education
they are facing increased violence, Chidambaram said. As a
result he announced more money to be spent on improving their
safety. Nirbhaya -- which means fearless in Hindi -- a pseudonym
for the unidentified Delhi gang rape victim used by Indian
media.  The gang rape set off a charged debate in a country where a
woman was raped every 22 minutes in 2011, according to the
National Crime Records Bureau. There were 572 cases of rape
reported in  New Delhi  that year, a 23 percent increase from
2008. The rise may reflect a greater confidence in reporting
assaults.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  