-- India Budget Revives Wind Subsidy, Introduces Low-Cost Loans
-- B y   A r c h a n a   C h a u d h a r y   a n d   G a n e s h   N a g a r a j a n
-- 2013-02-28T10:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/india-budget-revives-wind-subsidy-introduces-low-cost-loans.html
India  today reintroduced a subsidy
for wind farms and announced low-cost loans for clean energy
generators in its budget for the year starting April 1.  The South Asian nation will reinstate generation-based
incentives for  wind energy , Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said in his  budget speech  to Parliament. The
government will allocate 8 billion rupees ($147 million) to the
renewable energy ministry for the subsidy, he said.  The withdrawal of the incentive contributed to a 50 percent
drop in capacity additions this fiscal year, said Ramesh Kymal,
chairman at the India unit of  Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA (GAM) ,
 Europe ’s second-biggest wind-turbine maker. The benefit expired
in March last year. Annual installations in the world’s third-
biggest wind market more than doubled from 2009 to 2011 helped
by the subsidy.  Reinstatement of the generation-based incentive will help
add at least 400 megawatts of wind capacity in India in the year
ending March 2014, said Ashish Sethia, country manager for
Bloomberg New Energy Finance in India.  The Indian government will also provide companies that
generate renewable energy with low-cost loans for the next five
years from the National Clean Energy Fund, Chidambaram said.  “Unlike coal or gas power plants, a majority of the cost
for renewable energy projects is in the form of initial capital
expenditure,” BNEF’s Sethia said. “Projects that will be able
to access low-cost debt can see a significant boost in their
equity returns.”  India  plans  to add 3,000 megawatts of capacity from wind,
small hydro, biomass, industrial waste-to-energy and solar power
plants in the year to March 2014, according to budget documents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Archana Chaudhary in  New Delhi  at 
 achaudhary2@bloomberg.net ;
Ganesh Nagarajan in Chennai at 
 gnagarajan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at   samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  