-- India Tightens Rules for Investors Seeking Tax Treaty Benefits
-- B y   B h u m a   S h r i v a s t a v a
-- 2013-02-28T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/india-tightens-rules-for-investors-seeking-tax-treaty-benefits.html
Indian Finance Minister P. Chidambaram, struggling to rein in a budget deficit, tightened
rules for overseas investors seeking to benefit from treaties
with Singapore, Mauritius and Cyprus to avoid double taxation.  The so-called tax residency certificate needed to claim
benefits is “necessary but not sufficient,” according to the
Finance Bill document released along with the  federal budget  for
the year starting in April. Overseas investors will also have to
provide proof that they are the final beneficiaries of any
profits, according to Chidambaram.  Both overseas and local companies often route investment
into  India  through firms based in Mauritius, a tropical island
off the east coast of  Africa , because capital gains on Indian
shares held by a Mauritian company aren’t subject to tax in the
South Asian nation.  The proposal to change the rule is “disturbing,”  said
Ketan Dalal, joint tax leader at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in
Mumbai. “Investors dislike uncertainty and one would like the
finance minister to expressly clarify this.”  Indian equities declined yesterday, with the benchmark
stock index completing its first monthly drop in four months, on
concern the nation’s budget lacks measures to curb expenditure
that’s key to containing the fiscal gap.  The  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  retreated 1.5 percent and ended the
month with a drop of 5.2 percent, the most since May.
Chidambaram is targeting a budget  shortfall  of 4.8 percent of
gross domestic product in the 12 months starting April 1, from
an estimated 5.2 percent in 2012-2013.  Additional Documents  The rule also creates ambiguity regarding the additional
documents that will have to be produced to enjoy these benefits,
said Shefali Goradia, a partner at BMR Advisors, a Mumbai-based
tax and deals advisory.  Bilateral treaties are meant to ensure that capital gains
arising from sale of shares are taxed only in the investors’
country of residence and not where the company is based, thus
avoiding the payment of taxes twice over.  Tax treaties with Mauritius,  Singapore  and Cyprus might get
affected, said Punit Shah, co-head of tax at KPMG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bhuma Shrivastava in Mumbai at 
 bshrivastav1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  