-- India to Increase Tax for Top Earners to Boost Revenues
-- B y   B h u m a   S h r i v a s t a v a
-- 2013-02-28T11:10:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/india-to-increase-tax-for-top-earners-to-boost-revenues.html
Mukesh Ambani , India’s richest man,
will be among the 42,800 top earners being asked to pay higher
income tax by Finance Minister P. Chidambaram as he seeks to
rein in the  budget deficit .  People earning more than 10 million rupees ($185,000) a
year will have to pay an extra 10 percent surcharge for one
year, Chidambaram said in his speech in Parliament today. The
move will affect 42,800 people, he said.  Chidambaram is cutting subsidies and raising taxes on
 luxury goods  to pare the widest fiscal deficit in major emerging
nations. He also increased  customs duties  on yachts, high-end
motorcycles and cars. The nation is targeting a budget shortfall
of 4.8 percent of gross domestic product in the 12 months
starting April 1 from an estimated 5.2 percent gap in the year
ending March 31.  The finance minister is sending out a message that the rich
also need to bear the “weight of current challenges,” said
Rana Kapoor, founder and managing director of  Yes Bank Ltd. (YES) , who
was paid more than 14 million rupees as salary in year ending
March 31, according to exchange  filings . The money collected
through the surcharge will be “negligible,” he said.  The effective rise in the tax rate for higher earners will
be from 30 percent to 33 percent and will only impact taxable
income, said Rahul Garg, executive director,
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  “When I need to raise resources, who can I go to except
those who are relatively well placed in society?,” Chidambaram
said in his speech. “I am confident that when I ask the
relatively prosperous to bear a small burden for one year, just
one year, they will do so cheerfully.”  Ambani, 55, chairman of  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , earned a
salary of 41.6 million rupees in the year ended March, according
to the company’s annual report. Y.C. Deveshwar, chairman of  ITC
Ltd. (ITC) , Asia’s second-largest cigarette maker, was paid 31.2
million rupees in the 12 months to March 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bhuma Shrivastava in Mumbai at 
 bshrivastav1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  