-- India Plans New Ports, More Highways in Push to Boost Growth
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-02-28T09:11:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/india-plans-new-ports-more-highways-in-push-to-boost-growth.html
India  will build two new ports and
add more roads to remove infrastructure bottlenecks that hamper
growth in Asia’s third-largest economy.  The new ports will be set up in the southern state of
 Andhra Pradesh  and West Bengal in eastern India that will add
capacity of 100 million tonnes, Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said in his annual budget speech in parliament
today. The government will also award 3,000 kilometers (1,864-
miles) of road projects in the first half of the year starting
April 1, he said.  Builders of highways and ports will be allowed to raise as
much as 500 billion rupees ($9.2 billion) selling tax-free bonds
to help pay for projects next year, he said. Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh ’s government is seeking to boost infrastructure
investments as economic growth is forecast to slow to the lowest
level in a decade.  Road construction “faces challenges not envisaged earlier,
including financial stress, enhanced construction risk and
contract management issues,” Chidambaram said. “The growth
rate of an economy is correlated with investment rate.”  GMR Infrastructure Ltd. (GMRI)  and  GVK Power & Infrastructure Ltd. (GVKP) 
have sought to quit some road projects citing delays, while
state-owned National Highways Authority of India has said land
acquisition delays and difficulty in raising loans were
affecting construction.  GMR fell as much as 2 percent and changed hands at 18.2
rupees, down 1.6 percent, at 2:35 p.m. in Mumbai trading.
GVK dropped as much as 5 percent, while  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) ,
the nation’s biggest builder of airports and power networks,
declined 3.5 percent.  National Highways Authority and other agencies will raise
about 250 billion rupees via tax-free bonds in the year ending
March 31, Chidambaram said. The government will also set up a
regulator for roads, he said.  India’s gross domestic product will rise 5 percent in the
12 months through March 2013, below last year’s 6.2 percent and
the least since 4 percent in 2002-2003, the Central Statistical
Office said in a statement earlier this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  