-- India’s Government Bond Yields Near 31-Month Low Before Budget
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2013-02-28T04:33:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/india-s-government-bond-yields-near-31-month-low-before-budget.html
The yield on  India ’s bonds due 2022
was near a 31-month low on optimism Finance Minister Palaniappan
Chidambaram will announce steps today to cut the  budget deficit .  The government will seek to narrow its  shortfall  to 4.8
percent of gross domestic product the next fiscal year, from an
estimated 5.3 percent in the 12 months through March, according
to a Bloomberg survey. The central bank has said that federal
spending exceeding revenue fuels  inflation , reducing room to
lower borrowing costs and spur the economy. The  Reserve Bank  of
India last cut its  repurchase rate  by 25 basis points to 7.75
percent in January, the first reduction in nine months, as the
pace of price increases declined to a three-year low.  “The outlook for bonds is broadly positive,” said N.S. Venkatesh, Mumbai-based head of treasury at state-run  IDBI Bank
Ltd. (IDBI)  “A commitment to reduce the deficit will provide scope for
more monetary easing to revive growth.”  The yield on the 8.15 percent notes due June 2022 was at
7.80 percent as of 9:14 a.m. in Mumbai, according to the central
bank’s trading system. It touched 7.78 percent earlier, the
lowest level since July 2010. The rate has dropped 11 basis
points this month and 25 basis points this year.  Chidambaram will aim for the smallest increase in annual
debt sales in three years as he boosts efforts to avert a junk
rating, according to the Bloomberg survey. The borrowing target
for the year starting April 1 will be set at a record 5.8
trillion rupees ($108 billion), up 4 percent from the preceding
period, according to the median estimate of 16 analysts and
investors.  Rating Outlook  The government has reduced subsidies on diesel to rein in
spending and raised more than $4 billion in asset sales after
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings cut their credit outlooks
for India last year, citing its failure to narrow budget and
current-account deficits. Both companies rank the country at
BBB-, the lowest investment grade.  Asia ’s third-largest economy will grow 5 percent this
fiscal year, the slowest pace in a decade, the  Central
Statistical Office  said predicted on Feb. 7.  The one-year interest-rate swap, a derivative contract used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, was little
changed at 7.61 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  