-- Indonesia Plans Crackdown on Tax Evaders to Boost Revenue
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2013-02-28T09:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/indonesia-plans-crackdown-on-tax-evaders-to-boost-state-revenue.html
Indonesia  plans to crack down on tax
evaders, boost the number of  collectors (MLCOL)  and is studying new debt
rules to shore up state revenue as slower global growth hurts
its budget, the nation’s tax chief said.  The tax office will conduct a “massive scale” inspection
of labor-intensive companies in the first half of this year,
said Ahmad Fuad Rahmany, the director general of tax at the
 Finance Ministry . The potential additional revenue from this
operation may be as much as 30 trillion rupiah ($3.1 billion),
he said in an interview on Feb. 26.  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono , whose second term ends
in 2014, aims to boost tax revenue by more than 24 percent this
year to 1,042 trillion rupiah to help fund more roads, bridges
and ports in the world’s biggest archipelago. Below-target state
income in recent years has constrained the government’s scope to
spend on infrastructure needed to spur growth, which cooled to
the slowest pace in more than two years last quarter.  “The logical way out is to chase the taxable population
who aren’t paying yet,” Rahmany, 58, said. “Tax revenue is the
backbone of the Indonesian budget and that’s why we need to
increase the capacity of the tax office, we need more people,
infrastructure needs to be strengthened.”  Targeted Companies  Many companies in the  palm oil  industries, mostly small to
mid-sized ones, aren’t paying taxes yet and these are the ones
the government will be targeting, the tax chief said. It will
also target property, banking, infrastructure and insurance
firms, he said, adding his office has monitored various methods
many real-estate companies use to avoid taxes.  “Broadening the tax base will go a long way towards
ensuring a more consistent revenue stream,” said Eugene Leow,
an economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in  Singapore . “In this
regard, Indonesia still lags. For example, only a small
proportion of its workforce is paying income taxes.”  The rupiah rose 0.2 percent to 9,667 a dollar as of 1:56
p.m. in Jakarta today.  Indonesia’s tax-to-gross domestic product ratio was 10.9
percent in 2010, according to data posted on the  World Bank ’s
 website . That’s lower than  Thailand ’s 16 percent,  Malaysia ’s
13.8 percent, Singapore’s 13.5 percent and the  Philippines ’ 12.1
percent, the data show.  The ratio for Indonesia in 2012 was 11.9 percent, and the
government’s target for this year is 12.87 percent, according to
the tax office.  Debt Ratios  The tax office may also impose a threshold on companies’
debt-to-equity ratios, limiting it at about four to eight times,
above which interest payments will no longer be tax deductible,
Rahmany said. The ratio measures a company’s total liability
against its equity.  Some foreign companies depress their profits by reporting
capital injection from their parents as debt, Rahmany said. Of
the about 7,000 foreign companies in Indonesia, 4,000 haven’t
been paying taxes for the past five years as they’re reporting
losses, he said. Some of the losses were attributed to high
interest payments even if the debt was actually capital
injection from the parent company, he said.  Some people don’t want to pay taxes because they think the
government hasn’t done its job of building good infrastructure,
said Edimon Ginting, a deputy country director at the  Asian
Development Bank  in Jakarta. Jakarta commuters were delayed for
hours on Feb. 6 after heavy rains inundated the capital’s roads
and railways, bringing traffic to a halt.  Finance Minister  “Indonesia has room to boost tax collection,” Ginting
said by telephone yesterday. “There’s a potential increase in
the middle-income class, which means these people will fall into
the tax bracket.”  Yudhoyono and Finance Minister  Agus Martowardojo  have
struggled to reduce fuel subsidies, underlining the importance
of boosting revenue so that Indonesia can allocate more spending
to infrastructure. The president last week nominated
Martowardojo to succeed Darmin Nasution as central bank
governor.  The Parliament’s finance committee will decide next week on
a date for the fit-and-proper test on the finance minister’s
suitability for the Bank Indonesia job, Zulkieflimansyah, vice
chairman of Commission XI, said in Jakarta today. The
president’s office said Yudhoyono will name a replacement for
Martowardojo after the parliament committee’s test.  Tax Officials  The tax office aims to almost double the number of
employees to 62,000 people within five years, Rahmany said. The
department would need an additional 100,000 employees over the
next 10 years to boost the nation’s tax ratio, said Rahmany, who
has a doctorate in economics from  Vanderbilt University  and a
Masters degree from  Duke University . The government approved
adding 5,000 tax employees this year, he said.  Indonesia is the world’s fourth-most populous nation. The
country missed its tax revenue target last year as the global
economic slowdown curbed exports of commodities such as
minerals, tin, nickel and palm oil, Rahmany said.  The  Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index (CRY)  of raw materials
has fallen more than 9 percent over the past year as  Europe ’s
debt crisis and slowing growth in  China  cut demand.  Growth in Indonesia, Southeast Asia’s largest economy,
slowed to 6.11 percent last quarter. Tax and excise revenue
reached 96.5 percent of the government’s target last year
compared with a realization of 99.2 percent in 2011, Rahmany
said.  Tax revenue  excluding excise takings reached 94.5 percent
of 2012’s target.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  