-- ING Sells Part of Sul America Stake to Larragoiti Family
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2013-02-28T21:50:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/ing-sells-part-of-sul-america-stake-to-larragoiti-family.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) , the biggest Dutch
financial-services company, agreed to sell part of its 36.5
percent stake in  Sul America SA (SULA11)  to the Brazilian insurer’s
founding family as it prepares for a full exit.  After the transaction with the Larragoiti family, who
founded the insurer more than a century ago, ING will have a
direct stake of about 30 percent, the Amsterdam-based company
said in a statement today without giving details of the deal.
The bank is free to sell its remaining shares starting today,
said Ingeborg Klunder, a spokeswoman for ING.  ING is under European Union orders to divest global
insurance and investment-management operations after receiving a
government bailout in 2008. The firm sold most of its Latin
American life and pension business to Grupo de Inversiones
Suramericana for about 2.7 billion euros ($3.5 billion) in 2011,
leaving it with the  Sul America  stake. Today’s transaction gives
the Dutch company more flexibility to dispose of the shares
before the EU’s deadline of the end of 2016.  ING said the deal won’t have a material impact on earnings
and is expected to be completed in the second half of the year.
Its remaining stake in Rio de Janeiro-based Sul America is worth
620 million euros, according to yesterday’s closing price.  Sul America  fell  3.1 percent to 18.87 reais in Sao Paulo,
the biggest drop since Jan. 9. That compares with a 1.6 percent
gain to 6.16 euros for ING in Amsterdam.  Growth Forecast  The Brazilian  insurance industry  will keep growing in
coming years as wages rise, Sul America Chairman Patrick de Larragoiti Lucas said in a telephone interview today, adding
that the company will continue looking at acquisition
possibilities.  “Insurance is one of the most dynamic industries of the
Brazilian economy,” he said. “ Brazil ’s insurance market rose
about 15 percent in 2012 from a year earlier, while gross
domestic growth posted a modest expansion.”  Under the agreement, the Larragoiti family will increase
its stake in Sul America to 31.9 percent from 24.8 percent and
will hold more than 50 percent of the insurer’s voting shares,
Larragoiti Lucas said on a conference call earlier today.  “The Larragoiti family doesn’t plan to boost its stake in
Sul America” beyond today’s agreement, he said in the
interview, adding that the family won’t extend the offer for ING
to minorities shareholders because control of Sul America didn’t
change with the transaction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
Francisco Marcelino in  Sao Paulo  at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  