-- Mining Boom in Australia Edges Past Peak as UGL Touches Low
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2013-02-28T06:02:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/mining-boom-in-australia-edges-past-peak-as-ugl-touches-low.html
Signs are intensifying that the
mining boom is topping out in  Australia , the biggest shipper of
 iron ore  and coal, with engineering contractor  UGL Ltd. (UGL)  falling
to three-month low after joining rivals in making job cuts.  “The peak is unquestionably behind us” for the resources
boom, Richard Leupen,  chief executive officer of the Sydney
based company, said yesterday on a call after UGL, whose clients
include Rio Tinto Group and Royal Dutch Shell Plc, trimmed 700
jobs when reporting a 53 percent drop in first-half profit.  “We expect the peak in Australian resources and energy
capex to come through in the next 12 months,” JPMorgan Chase
and Co. analysts Anthony Passe-de Silva and William Eu Nam Loh
said yesterday in a report. “This peak has been accelerated by
the pullback in capex intentions in the bulk commodity sector.”  Global miners led by BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest,
are reigning in spending, slowing expansions and delaying
projects on expectations that commodity prices have passed their
highs. The  Reserve Bank  of Australia this month reduced its
economic growth forecast with Governor  Glenn Stevens  observing
that the economy is adjusting to the peak of the mining boom.  UGL, which also as property and rail divisions, fell 0.9
percent to A$10.21 at market close in Sydney, its lowest since
Nov. 16. The stock earlier touched A$10.02, the lowest since the
close on July 8, 2009.  Boart Longyear Ltd., the world’s biggest provider of
mineral-drilling services, and Macmahon Holdings Ltd. are among
mining services companies that have made jobs cuts in the past
six months as their shares have tumbled. Iluka Resources Ltd.,
the world’s biggest zircon producer, BlueScope Steel Ltd.,
Australia’s biggest steel mill, and Boral Ltd., a building
materials supplier, have announced a total of about 1,300 job
cuts this year.  Pressured Gillard  These job losses will add pressure on Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  who is facing an election while trailing in the polls
and battling on multiple fronts from the economy to political
scandals. Her bid to promote her government’s economic
credentials is being damaged by weaker growth, lower commodity
prices and a strong local currency that’s curbing tax receipts.  BHP, which this month reported a 58 percent decline in
first-half profit, last year mothballed two major projects in
Australia. The expansion of the Olympic Dam mine in  South
Australia , estimated by Credit Suisse Group AG to cost $33
Olympic billion, and its outer harbor iron ore project in
Western Australia, estimated by the bank at $22 billion.  “We’re seeing all - almost all the major corporates
talking about being much more careful with their capital
investment programs,” said Leupen, who said he’s optimistic for
the long-term outlook for the Australian resources sector.  Iron Ore  An expected slowdown in demand for minerals over the next
five years makes cutting costs and boosting productivity a
priority,  Andrew Mackenzie , the incoming chief executive officer
of Melbourne-based BHP, said this month in an interview with the
Australian Broadcasting Corp. Marius Kloppers, who he will
succeed in the top job on May 10, said Feb. 20 there won’t be a
return to the peak commodity prices of 2007.  The price of iron ore, BHP’s most profitable unit, averaged
27 percent lower during the six months to Dec. 31, data from The
Steel Index Ltd. shows. Iron ore is now trading at about $151.90
a metric ton, near the highest since October 2011. Prices may
tumble to $110 a ton by the end of the year, as mines in China
boost output, according to Westpac Banking Corp. BHP joined Rio
Tinto Group and Anglo American Plc in reporting a drop in
earnings as waning global growth prompted the lower prices.  For the month, the Australian dollar, which has remained
above $1 for almost eight months -- the longest stretch since
exchange controls were scrapped in 1983, is set for a 1.4
percent drop versus the  U.S. dollar , the biggest since August.  Building Evidence  “The evidence is building that a peak in investment cycle
is fast approaching in the first half of this year, if not
already happening in some sectors of the  mining industry ,” Greg
Gibbs a Singapore-based senior currency strategist at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc., said today in a phone interview. “The
risk is the Aussie dollar will continue to trend down.”  Australian companies are forecast to spend A$152.5 billion
($156.6 billion) in 2013-2014, compared with an estimated
A$168.2 billion in 2012-2013, the Bureau of Statistics said
today in Sydney. Fourth-quarter  capital spending  fell 1.2
percent from the previous three-month period, when it rose a
revised 1.1 percent. The median estimate of economists surveyed
by  Bloomberg News  was for a 1 percent increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  