-- Iran Fiscal 2013 Draft Budget Projects 40% Drop in Oil Revenue
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-02-28T09:37:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/iran-fiscal-2013-draft-budget-projects-40-drop-in-oil-revenue.html
Iran ’s government is projecting a 40
percent decline in oil revenue in the coming Iranian year,
according to a draft budget submitted to parliament, official
news agencies reported.  Iran expects to earn about 660 trillion rials from sales of
oil, its main export, in the fiscal year starting March 21, the
Mehr and  Fars  news agencies reported.  That figure is equivalent to $31 billion, said Rahim
Mombeini, the president’s deputy in charge of budget affairs,
according to Tehran-based Shargh newspaper. It wasn’t clear what
exchange rate was being used. While the central bank’s official
rate is 12,260 per dollar, a slump in the value of the currency
as a result of international sanctions has left the  currency
trading  at about 37,000 per dollar in street markets.  Iran’s oil exports have been hit by tighter restrictions
imposed by the U.S. and European Union in an effort to force
Iran to curb its nuclear program. EU countries have halted oil
imports from Iran since July, and the U.S. is pressing other
countries to reduce the amount they buy.  Iranian authorities have played down the impact of
sanctions on crude sales. Still, the Iranian Students  News
Agency  said on Jan. 7 that oil shipments plunged 40 percent in
the last nine months.  Formerly the second-biggest producer in the 12-member
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, Iran was tied
with the  United Arab Emirates  last month as the group’s No. 5
producer.  The 7,300 trillion rial draft budget is based on an oil
price of $95 per barrel,  Mehr  said. Mombeini said the government
didn’t expect  oil prices  to fall below $100 in the coming year.  In a Feb. 23 interview on state television, Ahmadinejad
said Iran will attempt to partly compensate for the decline in
oil revenue by increasing taxes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  