-- Italian Bonds Gain Amid Coalition Talks; Spanish Securities Rise
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-02-28T17:06:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/italian-bonds-advance-for-second-day-amid-coalition-speculation.html
Italy’s  government bonds  advanced
for a second day amid speculation the nation’s lawmakers will
set aside differences to form a broad coalition government after
inconclusive election results this week.  Spanish and Portuguese securities also rose as Italian
Finance Undersecretary Gianfranco Polillo said a union of Pier Luigi Bersani’s  Democratic Party  and the group led by  Silvio Berlusconi  was “the only possible way.” Berlusconi, who left
office in November 2011 with yields approaching euro-era highs,
ran on promises to reverse austerity. Dutch bonds underperformed
as the planning agency said its  budget deficit  will breach the
European Union limit. German two-year notes rose.  “There’s speculation that Italy will form a coalition and
the market is taking that as positive news,” said Martin Munksgaard, a bond trader at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Copenhagen. “It
might not be a perfect situation but it’s far better than the
alternative. Berlusconi might not be as big a threat as the
market had feared and European leaders will continue to put
pressure on  Italy  to reform.”  Italy’s  10-year yield  fell eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 4.73 percent at 5 p.m.  London  time after
rising to 4.96 percent yesterday, the highest since Nov. 15. The
5.5 percent bond due in November 2022 gained 0.605, or 6.05
euros per 1,000-euro ($1,312) face amount, to 106.31.  Spread Narrows  The extra yield investors demand to hold Italy’s 10-year
securities instead of similar-maturity German bunds shrank for a
second day, narrowing eight basis points to 328 basis points.
The spread increased to 351 basis points yesterday, the widest
since Dec. 11, amid concern a political vacuum would derail
efforts to resolve the nation’s debt crisis.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest fund manager with $3.67
trillion in assets, is looking to add to Italian bond holdings
after having reduced them, Rick Rieder, the company’s chief
investment officer of fundamental fixed-income said in a
Bloomberg Television interview.  “We started to add a little bit the other day to try to
bring back some of the exposure” after reducing the company’s
Italian debt holdings, Rieder said. “This election, isn’t done.
It’s going to take a while to form a government. It’s going to
make a lot of headlines.”  Spain ’s  10-year yields  declined 14 basis points to 5.10
percent and  Portugal ’s dropped 16 basis points to 6.32 percent.  Spanish Volatility  Spanish bonds were the most volatile in euro-area markets
today, followed by those of Italy and  Germany , according to
measures of 10-year or similar-dated debt, the yield spread
between two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  The spread of Dutch bonds over German bunds reached the
widest since October as the Netherlands’ planning agency said
its budget deficit will stay above the EU limit of 3 percent
this year and next.  The deficit will reach 3.3 percent of gross domestic
product in 2013 and 3.4 percent in 2014 as the economy shrinks
and unemployment rises, it said.  Dutch 10-year yields were little changed at 1.74 percent
after rising as much as two basis points. The spread over
similar maturity bunds widened one basis point to 28 basis
points after touching 29 basis points, the most since Oct. 30.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  signaled
yesterday the ECB has no plan to tighten monetary policy with
inflation projected to “significantly” undershoot its 2
percent target next year.  ‘Accommodative Stance’  “An accommodative stance will continue to lend support for
peripheral countries, although deficits are more about
structural reforms,” said Mohit Kumar, head of European fixed-
income strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in London.  Two-year German note yields fell three basis points to 0.04
percent as Medley Global Advisors said in a note to clients that
interest-rate discussion is likely at the ECB’s policy meeting
on March 7. The report cited Draghi’s comments that inflation
will be “significantly below” 2 percent in 2014.  The euro-area report today showed the inflation rate slowed
to 2 percent in January from 2.2 percent in December, in line
with an initial estimate on Feb. 1. In the month, prices fell 1
percent, the European Union’s statistics office said.  France ’s three-year  break-even rate , a gauge of inflation
expectations derived from the difference in yield between
inflation-linked and nominal bonds, widened five basis points to
1.61 percentage points. France is the region’s biggest market
for index-linked debt.  Italian government bonds handed investors a loss of 0.9
percent this year through yesterday, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. German bunds fell 0.5 percent, while French
securities dropped 1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  