-- Italy’s Stalemate Imperils Crisis Resolution, Finland Says
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2013-03-01T14:11:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/italy-s-stalemate-jeopardizes-crisis-resolution-finland-says.html
Italy’s political gridlock following
its inconclusive elections risks unraveling years of crisis
management, Finnish Prime Minister Jyrki Katainen said.  Failure to commit to responsible fiscal policies could
reignite market turmoil and result in losses that would be “too
terrible,” Katainen said in an interview in Helsinki yesterday.
“I don’t even want to consider that.”  Italian bond yields surged after elections this week
delivered a four-way parliamentary split. Pier Luigi Bersani,
the top vote getter, has resisted any collaboration with former
Premier Silvio Berlusconi and said he would seek to hammer out a
compromise with lawmakers elected under the upstart political
movement of ex-comic Beppe Grillo.  Bersani, in an interview with la Repubblica today, said he
plans a program of reforms to attract votes from all political
parties after he ruled out an alliance with Berlusconi.  “Austerity alone leads to disaster,” Bersani told the
newspaper, adding that  Europe  should relax fiscal policies and
focus on jobs. “The debt and deficit consolidation is something
that needs to be pushed back to the medium term.”  The euro fell as much as 0.5 percent against the dollar to
$1.2986, its lowest since Dec. 11. It traded 0.4 percent lower
at 1.3005 per dollar as of 2:08 p.m. in  London .  Katainen urged Italian politicians not to ignore the
nation’s economic hurdles.  Extensive Challenges  “In the Italian economy, the challenges are very
extensive,” Katainen said. “It’s not possible to close your
eyes and forget about them. They need structural reforms,
competitiveness reforms, budgetary balancing. They’re hard
resolutions, but unavoidable.”  The stalemate has added to investor concerns the debt
crisis may resurface. That would disrupt the progress made in
the second part of last year, after European Central Bank
President Mario Draghi in July pledged to do “whatever it
takes” to protect the euro.  When he was still  Finland ’s finance minister, Katainen
participated in Europe’s crisis management that followed the
2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Since 2011,
Katainen has headed the six-party coalition government in the
northernmost euro nation, which gets about a third of its output
from exports.  Continuing “responsible fiscal policies” is “primarily a
question of Italians’ well-being,” Katainen said. “It also has
a huge impact on the European economy. Countries that have done
a lot to fix their economies, like Spain, Portugal and Ireland,
they deserve to see those actions count and not be shaken by
actions of other countries.”  Debt Load  Italy’s economy, saddled with $2.6 trillion in debt, has
contracted for 18 months. Its borrowing costs rose to the
highest in four months at an auction of a new 10-year bond on
Feb. 27, even as demand increased from investors attracted by
higher returns. Gross domestic product in the euro area’s third-
largest economy will shrink through the third quarter, according
to the median of 16 economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “The faster they’re able to form a government that’s able
to proceed with reforms, the better,” Finnish Finance Minister
Jutta Urpilainen told reporters. “Italy’s stability has an
impact on the whole euro area.”  Moody’s Investors Service said in a report this week that
gridlock risks re-igniting the euro area’s debt crisis as
turmoil in Italy risks spilling over into weaker sovereigns like
Portugal and Spain.  AAA Rated  Finland, a AAA rated advocate of prudent fiscal policy,
yesterday reiterated further spending cuts are needed to protect
its top credit grade and end the nation’s debt growth by 2015.
The targeted cuts will be agreed on March 21, the government
said.  Finnish politicians have berated their euro-area
counterparts for breaking jointly-agreed rules, amassing
unsustainable debts and endangering the stability of the single
currency. Finland kept its budget deficit within the bloc’s 3
percent of GDP rule even as its output contracted 8.5 percent in
2009.  It’s the only euro-area country that still boasts a stable
AAA credit grade at the three major rating companies.  Germany ’s
debt grade has a negative outlook at Moody’s Investors Service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  