-- J&J Owes $7.76 Million in Punitives in Vaginal Mesh Case
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-02-28T17:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/j-j-owes-7-76-million-in-punitives-in-vaginal-mesh-case.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  must pay $7.76
million in punitive damages to a woman who previously won a
$3.35 million compensatory award for injuries she blamed on the
company’s vaginal-mesh device, a  New Jersey  jury ruled.  Jurors in Atlantic City made the award today to punish J&J,
the world’s largest seller of health-care products. The verdict
came in the first of 4,000 lawsuits to go to trial over J&J’s
pelvic mesh, including 2,100 in New Jersey. The jury of six men
and three women declined to comment on its decision.  The total of $11.1 million goes to Linda Gross, a South
Dakota nurse who complained of constant pain and underwent 18
operations after J&J’s Gynecare Prolift was implanted to shore
up weakened pelvic muscles. On Feb. 25, the panel found that J&J
and its Ethicon unit failed to warn her surgeon of the risks of
the device and fraudulently misled her about the risks.  “Tell them to tell the truth,” Gross attorney Adam Slater
argued to jurors on Feb. 26. “Make sure you punish them for not
telling the truth. Make sure you deter and discourage.”  Ethicon will appeal the punitive verdict today as well as
the Feb. 25 compensatory award, Sheri Woodruff, a company
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  “The punitive damage award is unsupported by the evidence
presented at trial,” Woodruff said. “Ethicon acted
appropriately in the research, development and marketing of the
Prolift.”  ‘Fell Short’  J&J, based in  New Brunswick , New Jersey, claimed at trial
that Prolift is safe and effective and that the company gave
adequate warning of any risks associated with the device.
Christy Jones, a J&J attorney, said the company hadn’t acted
with wanton and willful disregard to Gross, the legal standard
required for punitive damages.  “I understand that you have found that we could have done
a better job and that we in fact fell short,” Jones said Feb.
26. “My clients understand that. We hear you, I promise you.”  Jones said that “while I confess to you from the bottom of
my heart that it hurts, and we’re disappointed in the verdict,
we nonetheless appreciate what you have said and recognize and
respect your verdict.”  Gross’s attorneys called a forensic economics expert, Frank
Tinari, to testify about J&J’s finances. Tinari said J&J had
 assets  of $121.3 billion and a net worth of $64.8 billion
through Dec. 31. Advertising and marketing expenses were $20.9
billion last year, or $57 million a day, he said.  Company Document  Under questioning by Gross’s attorney, David Mazie, Tinari
said that every 45 minutes the company spends the equivalent of
the $3.35 million award to Gross on marketing and advertising.  A J&J manager of financial reporting, Mark Schneider,
testified his analysis of Prolift sales from 2005 through 2012
showed the total was $128 million and profit was $5.6 million.  On cross-examination, Mazie suggested Schneider’s
calculations were unreliable and underreported sales. He showed
Schneider a company document saying sales in the first half of
2008 were $55 million. Schneider said he hadn’t seen it.  In his summation, Slater went through e-mails, memos and
video depositions, including one of the device’s creator, Axel
Arnaud. Slater said Arnaud contradicted Ethicon’s statement that
Prolift posed “rare and small risks” of complications.  “I have given you 100 percent irrefutable evidence that
you cannot reasonably say no to,” Slater said. “This is clear
and convincing evidence. This is irrefutable.”  Jones said Ethicon tried to teach surgeons how to minimize
the risk to patients, and sought through “instructions for
use” to warn of the risks.  ‘That’s Human’  The evidence doesn’t show “J&J or Ethicon did not care
about hurting women. And that’s what the charge is,” Jones told
jurors, her hands held as if in prayer. “I’m asking you,
indeed, I’m begging you, to think about what was done and why.”  In his summation, Slater said, “They stood in front of you
and said we’re begging you. We’re begging you. Every single day
Linda Gross begs to be out of the prison that she’s in of pain
and all the things that have happened to her; every damn day.
That’s human. That’s real.”  Mazie said J&J is a “big giant” and jurors must send a
“loud message” to punish the company for its conduct.  “It’s for each and every one of you to send a message to
them that this can never, ever happen again, because life and
health is at risk,” Mazie said. “You can send a message to
Johnson & Johnson and Ethicon and tell them no more, no more, no
more.”  The case is Gross v. Gynecare Inc., Atl-L-6966-10, Superior
Court of Atlantic County, New Jersey ( Atlantic City ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Atlantic City, New Jersey, at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  