-- J&J Profit Pursuit Led to Defective Hip, Lawyer Argues
-- B y   M a u r i c e   P o s s l e y   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-03-01T02:17:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/j-j-profit-pursuit-led-to-defective-hip-lawyer-argues.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s pursuit of
profit led it to sell a defective metal-on-metal hip that failed
faster than any similar device, a lawyer argued at the first of
10,750 lawsuits over the recalled implant to go to trial.  Jurors in Los Angeles heard closing arguments today on
claims by Loren Kranksy, 65, that J&J’s DePuy unit defectively
designed its ASR hip and failed to warn of the risks. Kransky
attorney Brian Panish asked for compensatory damages of $5.3
million and punitive damages of as much as $179 million.  J&J, the world’s largest seller of health-care products,
failed patients before recalling 93,000 ASR hips in August 2010,
Panish said. At the time, J&J’s DePuy unit said 12 percent
failed within in five years, requiring follow-up revision
surgeries. The Australian rate hit 44 percent in 2012, he said.  “That design was defective from the first day they put it
out,” Panish argued to the state court jury at a trial that
began Jan. 25. “It was beyond what any hip had ever done to
anyone in the history of the world. It’s not even close.”  J&J, based in New Brunswick, New Jersey, denies that it
defectively designed the device or failed to warn of the risks
associated with it. Analysts say resolving the lawsuits could
cost the company billions of dollars.  After the summations, Judge J. Stephen Czuleger instructed
jurors on the law. Deliberations are expected to begin tomorrow.  Kransky, a retired prison guard from  Montana , had his hip
implanted in December 2007 and removed in February 2012. His
“diabetes, cancer, kidney disease, heart disease, vascular
disease and his many other health problems are unrelated” to
his hip, J&J attorney Michael Zellers said in his summation.  Injury Causation  “This case is about what caused Mr. Kransky’s injuries,”
Zellers said. “The evidence is clear that Mr. Kransky’s
injuries were not caused by a defect in the ASR hip. It’s not a
case about a recall. It’s not about revision rates of the ASR
today.”  Zellers denied claims by Kransky and his attorneys that the
tissue around his hip was damaged because the device, made of
chromium and cobalt, shed metal ions.  Kransky testified that he believed the debris was poisoning
him, and he feared the revision because he thought it would kill
him. Records show his metals level was eight times higher than
the level DePuy considered acceptable.  “There is no scientific support that Mr. Kransky’s metal
ions were toxic,” Zellers said. “The evidence in this case was
that Mr. Kransky was not being poisoned and that the cobalt and
chromium levels in his system were not toxic.”  Hip Infection  Zellers said Kransky’s revision came after his hip grew
infected, not because of problems with the ASR.  “Mr. Kransky had an infected hip,” Zellers said. “That
caused him pain. That pain caused the revision.”  Panish asked jurors to award Kransky $338,000 for his
medical expenses and $5 million for his pain and suffering.
Jurors also should impose punitive damages of $72 million to
$179 million on DePuy, or 2 percent to 5 percent of the
company’s value, Panish argued.  “This is a company that needs a solid message sent to
them,” Panish said. “Nobody has ever accepted responsibility
from DePuy. For a company in today’s world to do this to
patients -- unfortunately, it happens because the money
corrupts. They don’t have a soul.”  J&J failed to test the ASR adequately before it was sold in
the U.S. in 2005, and ignored reports by leading surgeons of
mounting patient complaints, Panish said.  Metal Cup  Surgeons implanted a metal cup in the hip and a metal ball
atop the femur that rotated inside the cup. Panish said DePuy
failed to test the cup at any angle other than the optimum one
of 45 degrees. Witnesses said that the steeper the angle, the
greater the amount of metal debris that was shed.  Panish said the ASR was “unsafe at any angle.”  Zellers responded to Panish’s criticism of DePuy for
failing to conduct a clinical study before selling the ASR.  “This was the mostly extensively tested device in DePuy
history at the time,” he said. “They worked hard to develop a
product that had low wear and would last a long time.”  He denied that DePuy hid its testing data.  “DePuy shared its information with everyone,” he said.
“This was not something DePuy hid and kept in its laboratory.”  Implant Angle  He said the evidence showed that Kransky’s hip was
implanted at an angle greater than 55 degrees.  “If you are going to put a cup in at that angle, you are
going to get more wear,” he said.  Zellers told jurors that complaints about the hip jumped
after the recall, and not because it was defective.  “When the recall occurred,” he said, “there were many,
many, many complaints related to the ASR. That’s understandable.
There was a lot of publicity. There was worry by patients.”  Kransky’s lawyers “have tried to make you angry at
DePuy,” Zellers said. “They have tried to convince you that
DePuy acted maliciously. DePuy set out to make the very best hip
device they could make. DePuy is a good company. It has a superb
reputation. DePuy is an open and honest company.”  In a rebuttal argument, Kransky attorney Michael Kelly
derided Zellers for suggesting that revisions rose after the
recall because of lawyers, like it was a “global conspiracy.”  He said revisions came two to four years after the implant,
with the biggest year of U.S. sales in 2007, at 10,581.  “Surprise, surprise, these are the ones that are hurting
people right on schedule,” Kelly said.  He said for DePuy to say Kransky had an infected hip was
“complete, total, utter bunk.”  Kelly also told the jury that Zellers said there’s “no
perfect hip.”  “Ladies and gentlemen, this is not an imperfect hip,” he
said. “This is a public health disaster.”  The case is Kransky v. DePuy, BC456086, California Superior
Court, Los Angeles County (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maurice Possley in Los Angeles Superior Court at
 mauricepossley@gmail.com ;
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  