-- Japan Holdings of U.S. Securities Surpassed China’s by June 2012
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-03-01T00:38:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/japan-overtook-china-as-u-s-securities-top-foreign-holder-1-.html
Japan ’s purchases of U.S. Treasuries
helped it overtake  China  last year as the largest foreign holder
of American securities, including equities, asset-backed paper
and  U.S. government debt , U.S. Treasury Department figures show.  Total Japanese holdings of all types of U.S. securities
grew to $1.84 trillion at the end of June 2012, the most recent
period for which the Treasury has released data, from $1.59 
trillion a year earlier, fueled in part by Japan’s  purchases  of 
$227 billion of U.S. government debt during the 12-month period. 
China’s holdings fell to $1.59 trillion from  $1.73 trillion 
during the same 12 months, a period when China was selling 
Treasuries.  “Japan has been gaining all along,” said  Jim Vogel , head
of agency-debt research at FTN Financial in Memphis, Tennessee.
“In a slow economy,” U.S. securities have “been an investment
of choice.”  China remained the biggest foreign holder of U.S. Treasuries
as of December, according to a separate Treasury report.  Japan’s biggest Treasury purchases followed interventions
in the  currency market . Japan bought $76.9 billion of the
securities in September 2011 and $59.9 billion of U.S.
government debt in November 2011 after selling 13.59 trillion
yen in interventions in September and October that year.  The yen reached a record high of 75.35 per dollar in
October 2011 and has weakened since, trading yesterday at 92.59.  “Japanese stimulus measures have involved purchasing
foreign securities in order to stimulate the domestic economy,”
Gennadiy Goldberg, a U.S. strategist at TD Securities Inc. in
 New York , said in an e-mail. “On the other side of the picture,
Chinese buying of Treasuries has slowed due to the gradual
appreciation in the  yuan , with China not needing quite so many
Treasuries to keep the currency fixed in place.”  China’s Treasuries  Japan’s purchases of Treasuries have slowed since the end
of June, and China remains the biggest foreign holder of U.S.
government debt. China’s holdings of U.S. Treasuries rose $19.7
billion to $1.2 trillion in December, the Treasury reported Feb.
15. Japan, the second-largest, increased its Treasury holdings
by $2.5 billion to $1.12 trillion.  Chinese ownership of  U.S. debt  became an issue during last
year’s U.S. election campaign.  The unsuccessful Republican presidential nominee,  Mitt
Romney , raised the issue during his acceptance speech at his
party’s August convention. And a super-political action
committee, the Americans for Prosperity Foundation, joined with
the advocacy group Citizens Against Government Waste to air
television advertisements that portrayed China’s ownership of
Treasuries as a threat to U.S. independence.  Chinese Professor  “America tried to spend and tax itself out of a great
recession” and saddled itself with “crushing debt,” a Chinese
professor in the future tells his students as English subtitles
appear on the screen. “Of course we owned most of their debt,
so now they work for us.”  The foundation is chaired by  David Koch , who with his
brother  Charles Koch  controls Wichita-based Koch Industries Inc.
They fund groups that advocate policies favored by the
 Republican Party .  Chinese Treasury holdings, while rising last year, are
still below the peak of $1.31 trillion reached in July 2011.  “Because China doesn’t have as big of a current account
surplus as it had in the past, it doesn’t have to buy as much of
U.S. securities,” said  Joseph Gagnon , a senior fellow at the
Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington.
“Both Japan and China are still holding a lot of U.S.
securities.”  China’s current account surplus was 2.69 percent of gross
domestic product at the end of 2011, down from 9.7 percent at
the end of 2007, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  The Treasury said the final results of the foreign
portfolio holdings of the U.S. securities will be released on
April 30, while preliminary report of U.S. holdings of foreign
securities at the end of 2012 is expected to be released by Aug.
30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  