-- Japan Exchange to Keep Sliding Index Events, SMBC Says
-- B y   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2013-02-28T06:38:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/japan-exchange-to-keep-sliding-index-events-smbc-says.html
Japan Exchange Group Inc. (8697) , which
doubled in value since listing in January, may continue to trim
gains accumulated ahead of the bourse’s inclusion in stock
indexes this week, according to SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.  Shares were included in the  Topix Index (TPX)  as of today and
added to the  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  tomorrow. The so-
called “index events” generated 30 billion yen in demand for
the stock, which typically sees 5 billion yen in daily turnover,
according to SMBC quantitative strategist Keiichi Ito. Japan
Exchange fell 11 percent to close at 7,060 yen in  Tokyo  after
yesterday surging 13 percent in the final seconds of trading.  “There’s been demand for the shares simply based on the
fact of their inclusion in the indexes,” Ito said in a phone
interview. “When the events are over, there should be a
substantial negative impact.”  Japan Exchange, formed from the merger of bourses in Tokyo
and Osaka, advanced 100 percent through yesterday after listing
in Tokyo on Jan. 4. The benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY) 
climbed about 8 percent in the period.  Some 17 trades of more than 10,000 Japan Exchange shares
occurred in the last 60 seconds of yesterday’s session, a day on
which the  average trade  size was 749 shares, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The number of shares changing hands
reached 5.4 million, more than five times the 30-day average,
the data show. Volume climbed to 6.9 million shares today.  “It looks like there was some very poor order placement
that caused a spike,” Ito said. “That’s getting rolled back
today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  