-- Japan Consumer Prices Fall for Third Month as Deflation Lingers
-- B y   J a m e s   M a y g e r
-- 2013-02-28T23:44:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/japan-consumer-prices-fall-for-third-month-as-deflation-lingers.html
Japan ’s consumer prices fell for the
eighth time in nine months, highlighting the challenges facing
the  Bank of Japan (8301)  in reaching a 2 percent inflation target.  Consumer prices excluding fresh food fell 0.2 percent in
January from a year earlier, the third-straight decline, the
statistics bureau said in Tokyo today. The result matched the
median estimate in a survey of 26 economists by Bloomberg News.  While a weaker yen improves the outlook for exporters and
pushes up the prices of imported energy and commodities,
continued price falls show the scale of the BOJ’s challenge in
achieving 2 percent inflation. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
yesterday nominated Asian Development Bank President Haruhiko Kuroda to lead the BOJ, with the prospective governor saying
last month that more easing is justified for 2013.  “Companies are still far from raising prices, and
consumers won’t accept it as their deflationary expectations
linger,” said  Azusa Kato , an economist at BNP Paribas SA in
Tokyo. “There is a considerable time lag for an economic
recovery to start feeding into prices.”  The BOJ will likely announce new stimulus measures as early
as the first meeting under the new governor on April 3-4, Kato
said. Current governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his two deputies
step down on March 19.  Japan’s economy will grow 1.8% this quarter according to
the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News,
after contracting in April-to-December last year. Goldman Sachs
Inc. in January raised its GDP forecast for the fiscal year
starting in April to 2 percent.  The nation’s trade deficit swelled to a record in January
on energy imports and a weaker yen.  BNP’s Kato expects Japan’s consumer prices will start
rising from the end of this year.  “Prices will remain non-reactive to the economy’s
improvement stubbornly for the time being, but once they ignite,
the gains will gather momentum,” Kato said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Mayger in  Tokyo  at 
 jmayger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  