-- Japan Won’t Start Nuclear Plants in 2013, Wood Mackenzie Says
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n
-- 2013-02-28T03:06:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/japan-won-t-start-nuclear-plants-in-2013-wood-mackenzie-says.html
Additional nuclear restarts in  Japan 
are unlikely this year, sustaining record demand for liquefied
natural gas in a country that once depended on atomic power for
about a third of its energy, according to Wood Mackenzie Ltd.  Japan’s nuclear capacity will be just half of what it was
before the 2011 disaster at  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s Fukushima
plant even after the facilities are reinstated, Nicholas Browne,
a Singapore-based gas analyst for Wood Mackenzie, said in an
interview yesterday in  Tokyo . Restoring those sites could take
as long as three years, he said.  Japan  imported  a record 87.3 million metric tons of LNG in
2012 to make up for a power generation shortfall after safety
checks idled most of its nuclear plants. All but two out of the
54 reactors operating before the March 11, 2011, earthquake and
tsunami remained shut for safety checks as of the end of last
year. Utilities will have to meet new safety standards from the
Nuclear Regulation Authority before starting their idled
facilities. The rules will go into effect in July.  “In terms of the nuclear ramp-up, we see a gradual process
from the start of 2014 through to the end of the summer of
2015,” Browne said. “Some of the discussions we’ve had with
Japanese companies suggest it could easily be a three-year
process, where the government takes a rigorous approach and
takes a long time to decide.”  The estimate that only about half of Japan’s nuclear
capacity will return is based on the age of some reactors and
other attributes that may lead them to be judged unsafe to
restart, said Browne.  LNG Imports  Japan’s intake of LNG for 2013 will be similar to last
year’s, when safety checks at atomic power stations left the
country with no nuclear plants for about two months, according
to  Wood Mackenzie . Imports are expected to rise to about 101
million tons by 2030, as reactors are decommissioned after
reaching the end of their 40-year operation limits and some oil-
fired generation is replaced with gas, Wood Mackenzie said.  “We see the Japanese gas market as being a market of
moderate growth,” Browne said. “There are some fundamentals to
outweigh issues such as falling population and other topics
which put a dampening effect on demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  