-- JPMorgan Fights Lehman Bid to ‘Harass’ by Querying Iksil
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2013-02-28T21:32:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/jpmorgan-fights-lehman-bid-to-harass-by-querying-iksil.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  opposed Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bid to pull Bruno Iksil, known as the
“London Whale” trader, into an $8.6 billion fight between the
biggest U.S. bank and the defunct investment bank.  Lehman asked a bankruptcy judge this month to let it try to
force Iksil to testify on valuations of derivatives trades in
2008 that Lehman said spurred unnecessary margin calls and
hastened its bankruptcy. Lehman also sought to be released from
a confidentiality agreement with JPMorgan so it could file
supporting documents for the request.  Lehman’s own employees have acknowledged Iksil wasn’t
responsible for the derivatives trades, which were unrelated to
Lehman’s lawsuit against its former lender, the bank told the
judge in a federal court filing in  Manhattan  yesterday. For two
years, Lehman has been “well aware” of Iksil’s lack of
involvement in JPMorgan’s relationship with Lehman, it said.  “This application, therefore, should be seen for what it
is: a blatant misuse of this court’s processes to harass
JPMorgan with unnecessary and burdensome discovery and attempt
to disparage JPMorgan with the irrelevant assertion that it did
not act ‘altruistically’ in dealing with Lehman,” the bank
said, asking the judge to turn down Lehman’s request.
“Plaintiffs have repeatedly tried grandstanding tactics to add
color to a lawsuit that is devoid of proof.”  Key Lender  JPMorgan, a key lender to Lehman during the 2008 credit
crisis, said the derivatives margin that Lehman wanted to query
Iksil about wasn’t related to the collateral at issue in the
lawsuit. Lehman’s inquiry concerned fewer than a dozen
derivatives trades, out of 70,000 such trades between the bank
and its client, and would add nothing to the “millions of pages
of documents and eighty depositions of current and former
JPMorgan personnel” obtained by Lehman in the past two years,
it said.  “That record shows that the collateral sought by JPMorgan
was necessary to secure, among other things, tens of billions of
dollars in credit that JPMorgan extended to Lehman on a daily
basis up to, and even after, Lehman’s bankruptcy,” said the
bank, which has repeatedly denied Lehman’s accusations.  Big Positions  JPMorgan in May disclosed billions of dollars in losses by
London-based Iksil, who got his nickname because his positions
were so big. Lehman, which sued JPMorgan for $8.6 billion in
2010, says Iksil’s mismarking of trades forced Lehman to post
$273.3 million of collateral. JPMorgan later returned the money,
acknowledging an error, Lehman said in court filings.  Lehman also is demanding more information about JPMorgan’s
chief investment office, subject of a critical JPMorgan report
that was publicized in the media. Lehman, which filed the
biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in September 2008, cited in
court papers the derivatives-margin dispute and a hedging
strategy at JPMorgan, which Lehman said was also related to the
case.  “It is surprising that JPMorgan is trying to block
Lehman’s efforts to get testimony from Mr. Iksil, who was a
trader in the bank’s CIO office,” Andrew Rossman, a lawyer for
the defunct firm at Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP, said
in an e-mailed statement. “We believe that JPMorgan’s
extraordinary effort to block that testimony is revealing.”  Iksil was the trader in two transactions involving disputed
margin, Rossman said, citing an internal JPMorgan e-mail
attached to his statement. The bank’s chief risk officer,  John
Hogan , told his counterpart at Lehman that the dispute would be
cleaned up, Rossman said, citing another JPMorgan e-mail.  ‘CIO Situation’  According to JPMorgan, neither Iksil nor the chief
investment office had anything to do with the collateral at
issue in the lawsuit. JPMorgan accused Lehman, which hasn’t
mentioned Iksil or the chief investment office in any of its
previous information requests, of exploiting “the CIO
situation.”  “The CIO is part of the corporate sector at JPMorgan,”
the bank said. “Its primary responsibility, working with
JPMorgan’s treasury, is to manage certain of JPMorgan’s
available cash in order to meet future liquidity needs and to
provide a reasonable return. Plaintiffs have pointed to nothing
that suggests that the CIO had responsibility in 2008 for
managing JPMorgan’s exposure to Lehman.”  Lehman hasn’t alleged or cited proof that any member of the
investment office was at key September 2008 meetings when the
collateral disputed in the lawsuit was demanded, it said.  No Depositions  “Nor do plaintiffs cite any evidence that anyone from the
CIO participated in the decision to request collateral from
Lehman. Indeed, until the CIO became news, plaintiffs did not
seek a single deposition from anyone in the CIO among the
depositions they took of eighty JPMorgan witnesses.”  JPMorgan’s disclosures last year about investment office
losses related to 2012 trades that were “wholly separate” from
Lehman trades in 2008, JPMorgan said. Lehman can’t point to
“any agreement or other understanding that macro hedges or
other general hedging transactions would be considered in
measuring Lehman’s obligations to JPMorgan, nor is there any
legal support for imposing such a connection,” the bank said.  Geithner Testimony  Lehman’s last attempt to exploit the news involved former
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner , JPMorgan said. A year
ago, Lehman sued Geithner to get him to testify in its legal
fight with JPMorgan. He ultimately agreed to answer questions in
writing.  Iksil was the JPMorgan contact for former Lehman trader
Zahid Hassan on a disputed transaction in 2008, according to e-
mails attached to Lehman’s court filings. Pressed by Lehman
officer Lee Wigden to “continue to follow up with him,” Hassan
said in an Aug. 28, 2008, e-mail that Iksil wasn’t “the one
responsible” for the valuations.  On Sept. 10, 2008, five days before Lehman filed the
biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history, Hassan said he had contacted
Iksil again, and it seemed likely the disputed markings would
“be sorted out.” A chat copied into the e-mail has Iksil
saying, “I do not know. This is not me.”  After saying he would ask who could help Hassan with the
issue, Iksil wrote, “We are checking. It is sorted out.” Then
he referred Hassan to a colleague, Luis Buraya, who said, “It’s
a fault on our side.” Buraya then gave Hassan a London phone
number for Matthew Davies in JPMorgan’s chief investment office,
“a contact at our side that is dealing with the issue,” Buraya
wrote in the chat.  Risk Management  Lehman, which is gathering money to pay creditors an
average of 18 cents on the dollar, said in filings that it
realized Iksil could help it after JPMorgan disclosed “risk
management failures,” including at the CIO. Iksil was
“central” to the dispute with JPMorgan over valuing
derivatives, New York-based Lehman said.  Lehman told the judge it wants to seek international
judicial assistance to force Iksil, a French national, to answer
questions, as he is unwilling to do so.  JPMorgan last month detailed lapses behind its biggest-ever
trading loss in a 129-page report, saying employees were
overwhelmed by the complexity of their bets, risk managers were
ill-equipped and leaders including Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  weren’t aggressive enough in responding.  Important Customer  In the years before the trading losses, Dimon pushed the
chief investment office to generate more profit by boosting the
size and risk of its bets to include higher-yielding assets,
 Bloomberg News  reported in April, citing former executives. The
shift had made the unit an increasingly important customer to
Wall Street’s trading desks, with bets that could move markets.  The loss at JPMorgan, considered one of the industry’s
best-managed firms after remaining profitable during the credit
crisis, has prompted lawsuits and probes in the U.S. and abroad.
Last month, it led to regulatory sanctions, as banking watchdogs
found internal-control “deficiencies.” The loss also pushed
lawmakers to tighten trading curbs.  London traders initially tried to hide losses that
ballooned beyond $6.2 billion in last year’s first nine months,
JPMorgan said in its report. Dimon’s pay for 2012 was cut in
half to $11.5 million following the debacle, which helped reduce
 shareholder value  by as much as $51 billion.  The pay decision was announced as the firm reported a 53
percent jump in fourth-quarter  profit  to $5.69 billion, driven
by earnings on mortgages.  Traders Ousted  Dimon ousted three London traders involved in the loss,
shuffled senior managers and accepted resignations from
executives. The report highlighted blunders tied to measuring
risk.  Lehman filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 15, 2008, after piling
on debt and making high-risk bets, according to an examiner’s
report. Technically out of bankruptcy since March, the company
has said it will continue to liquidate through about 2016.  Lehman hasn’t so far succeeded with its two biggest
lawsuits against banks. It got none of the $11 billion it
demanded from London-based Barclays Plc, which bought the
defunct firm’s North American business in 2008. Lehman also
failed last year to get a bankruptcy judge to restore key claims
against JPMorgan.  Lehman’s lawsuit against JPMorgan alleges that the New
York-based lender helped cause its collapse by demanding $8.6
billion in collateral. JPMorgan said a year ago it would give
Lehman almost $700 million to settle part of the suit. It
continues to fight most of Lehman’s claims.  The two parties also are fighting over a demand by JPMorgan
for $6.3 billion it says it is owed.  The liquidation case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., 08-13555,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New
York  (Manhattan). Lehman’s lawsuit against JPMorgan is Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. v. JPMorgan Chase Bank NA, 10-03266, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  John Pickering 
at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  