-- Krona Respite for Exports No Swedish Policy Goal, Reinfeldt Says
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-02-28T14:16:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/krona-respite-for-exports-no-swedish-policy-goal-reinfeldt-says.html
Swedish companies must learn to
adapt to the strong krona and find other ways of staying
competitive because policy makers aren’t planning to interfere
with the  exchange rate , Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  said.  “We must get used to, over time, that we have a stronger
currency and rather do other things -- we’re lowering the
corporate tax, we focus much on research, development and
innovation,” Reinfeldt said to reporters in Riga today.  Sweden has refrained from joining a global push to weaken
currencies in a bid to prop up exports and foster economic
growth. The krona is the best performing major currency in the
world, rising 3.54 percent this year against 10 developed
markets, Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted indexes show.  The government and central bank have made clear they won’t
interfere with the ascent. Riksbank Governor Stefan Ingves said
in an interview last month he’s “happy” with the current
level. The central bank left its main rate at 1 percent last
month and signaled borrowing costs probably will stay at that
level amid “positive” signs of a recovery.  The bank last month predicted the economy, home to
truckmaker Volvo AB and retailer Hennes & Mauritz AB, will
expand 1.2 percent this year, after growing 0.9 percent last
year. Growth will pick up to 2.7 percent next year. The euro
area may contract 0.3 percent this year, the European Commission
forecast on Feb. 22.  Swedish Experience  “There is a discussion around the world right now again
about different currencies’ value against each other but the
more this is market-based, the better, in my view,” Reinfeldt
said. “Otherwise we’ll be back in a world where you try to
steer the currencies’ value against each other and our Swedish
and European experience is that that doesn’t turn out that
well.”  The krona gained 0.1 percent against the euro to trade at
8.4395 as of 3:15 p.m. in  Stockholm .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  