-- Fed Says Consumer Debt Rose 0.3% During Fourth Quarter
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2013-02-28T19:02:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/new-york-fed-says-household-debt-climbed-0-3-in-fourth-quarter.html
Household debt  in the U.S. climbed
0.3 percent in the fourth quarter as student and auto loans rose
along with credit-card balances, according to a Federal Reserve
Bank of New York survey.  Consumer indebtedness rose by $31 billion to $11.34
trillion, according to a quarterly report on household debt and
credit released today by the Fed district bank. Mortgage
balances were little changed at $8.03 trillion and home-equity
lines of credit fell by 1.7 percent to $563 billion.  “The report shows some clear signs of healing in consumer
debt markets,” James McAndrews, executive vice president and
director of research at the New York Fed, said at a press
conference in New York. “While it is too soon to conclude that
a trend has been established in which households are beginning
to increase their debts again, there are signs that the four-
year long contraction is slowing.”  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a 0.1 percent annual rate
during the fourth quarter, according to revised figures released
by the Commerce Department today, as stronger consumer spending
and a rebound in residential real estate blunted the impact from
cuts in military outlays running at a 22 percent annual pace.  The “recent improvement” in the housing market has been
accompanied by the increase in consumer borrowing, and household
delinquency rates are continuing to “slowly recover,”
McAndrews said. As of year-end, 8.6 percent of debt was in
“some stage of delinquency,” down from 8.9 percent in the
third quarter, the New York Fed’s survey showed.  Housing Recovery  The recovery in the housing market does “help clean up the
balance sheet for consumers” and “allows them to expand their
consumption once again,” McAndrews said to reporters after his
speech.  Auto loans climbed by $15 billion, outstanding  student
loans  increased $10 billion and credit-card balances were up by
$5 billion, according to the report. Americans have cut debt
from a peak of $12.68 trillion in the third quarter of 2008,
according to the New York Fed’s data.  McAndrews said that while he sees “signs of reduced
headwinds and possibly greater monetary policy traction,” he
remains “cautious about the outlook.”  The tax increases that took effect at the beginning of the
year “reduces disposable incomes significantly for many
households” and will probably result in consumer spending that
will “weaken some” this quarter, McAndrews said. There also
are “several vexing fiscal policy issues on the immediate
horizon” that may damage growth, he said.  ‘Major Plus’  A “major plus for the economy” has been the housing
market, which may give a boost to growth of 0.5 percentage point
in 2013, McAndrews said, citing improvements in housing starts,
home sales and prices. In addition, manufacturing has “begun to
look a bit brighter as well” and  consumer spending  has
“clearly strengthened,” he said.  “Of course the quickening pace of auto, home, and capital
goods sales and orders, all interest-sensitive goods, is
consistent with the highly accommodative stance of monetary
policy, which not only lowers  interest rates  but enhances credit
availability as well,” McAndrews said.  “Evidence that interest-sensitive sectors are growing more
rapidly now is the best evidence we have” of the growing
effectiveness of monetary policy, he said to reporters.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.5 percent to
1,523.12 at 1:48 p.m. in New York, while the yield on the U.S.
10-year Treasury note was little changed at 1.9 percent.  New Originations  New mortgage originations rose to $553 billion in the
fourth quarter, and have been climbing since the third quarter
of 2011, the  New York  Fed said in its report. About 210,000
consumers showed new foreclosures on their credit reports during
the last three months of 2012, down 13.3 percent from the prior
quarter.  “The data provides early evidence that consumers may be
reaching the end of the four year deleveraging cycle, though
we’ll need to see if this is sustained in upcoming quarters,”
Andrew Haughwout, vice president and economist at the New York
Fed, said in a statement released by the district bank.  The New York Fed said the report is based on data compiled
by the bank’s Consumer Credit Panel, a nationally representative
random sample from Equifax Inc. credit-report data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  