-- Noble Sees Earnings Buoyed by Agriculture Recovery
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-03-01T13:03:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/noble-quarterly-profit-fell-14-on-lower-agriculture-earnings.html
(Corrects timeframe in the first paragraph and CEO comment
in the fourth in story originally published on March 1.)  Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL) ,  Asia ’s biggest
commodity trader by sales, said future earnings will be driven
in part by a recovery at its agricultural business after
reporting a 14 percent decline in fourth-quarter profit.  Net income  fell to $91.2 million from $105.7 million a year
earlier, Hong Kong-based Noble said yesterday in a statement.
That met the $91 million average estimate of five analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales rose 21 percent to $24.3 billion.  Revenue at the  agricultural unit , Noble’s largest after
energy, slumped for a third straight quarter amid a drought in
 Argentina  and poor oilseed crushing conditions in  China . Noble
is betting that almost $500 million of investment to expand the
unit over two years will revive the business and boost earnings.  “In terms of the drivers of the performance going forward,
clearly one of them will be the recovery of the performance of
our agriculture business from what has been the worst year in
recent history for us,” Chief Executive Officer Yusuf Alireza
said yesterday on a conference call. Potential growth
opportunities across all its units will also contribute, he
said.  The stock lost 0.8 percent to S$1.175 at 9:48 a.m. in
 Singapore . The shares have advanced 1.7 percent this year,
compared with a 3.2 percent increase in the benchmark  Straits
Times  index.  Difficult Year  “The grains and oilseeds division experienced a very
difficult year,” the company said, as operating income from its
agriculture supply chain plunged 90 percent in the quarter.
“2013 should benefit from a strong crop outlook in our key
origination centers in  South America .”  Crops including wheat, South America’s biggest, were hurt
last year as Argentine growers experienced the first inland dust
bowl in 85 years, as well as heavy coastal rains. Argentina is
also the world’s third-largest shipper of soybeans and the
second-biggest exporter of corn.  Noble, which owns oilseed-processing plants in Argentina
and China, expects to start three new facilities in  Brazil ,
Ukraine and  South Africa  this year, bringing total annual
capacity to 10 million metric tons, it said yesterday.  “We are unlikely to see strong evidence of any agri
turnaround” until second quarter this year, Macquarie Group
Ltd.’s analysts Conrad Werner and Sam Chan said in a report.
“The agri division is only likely to be truly firing on all
cylinders in second half when the next Brazilian sugar harvest
also comes through for processing.”  Record Revenue  Full-year profit increased 9 percent to $471 million,
missing the $529.5 million  average estimate  of 13 analysts.
Revenue jumped 16 percent to a record $94 billion, while volumes
of all the company’s products reached a record 224 million tons.  Noble has divested assets to bolster its balance sheet, and
generated enough cash from such sales last year to match
investment spending for the first time, Chief Financial Officer
Robert Van Der Zalm said yesterday. The company, which said Feb.
22 it will sell a stake in its palm unit to  Wilmar International
Ltd. (WIL) , continues to review asset-sale opportunities, he said.  Noble is committed to being “light” on asset ownership,
Alireza said. “A significantly asset-heavy strategy would put
us in conflict with our producers and consumers, and we don’t
want to find ourselves in that position.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  