-- Nordic Banks Draw Latvian Rebuke as Dominance Denounced
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2013-03-01T10:51:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/nordic-banks-draw-latvian-rebuke-as-dominance-denounced.html
Scandinavian banks, which suffered
record impairments in the Baltics four years ago, are now being
criticized by the government in  Latvia  for dominating a
financial industry it says should do more to finance growth.  Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis said Nordic banks,
including Stockholm-based  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  and  SEB AB (SEBA) , are over-
represented in Latvia’s financial industry as he urges the banks
to ease their lending practices and channel more credit into the
former Soviet economy.  “After the crisis, the sector has become even more
dominated by Scandinavian banks and there are even fewer players
from outside,” Dombrovskis said in a Feb. 27 interview in Riga.
“Competition is even more suppressed.”  Dombrovskis wants to break the lenders’ dominance and bring
more banks into the market to promote competition, he said.
Scandinavian banks including Swedbank say they’re exercising
restraint after being dragged through Latvia’s 2009 economic
collapse, which left the nation relying on a bailout from the
 International Monetary Fund , the European Union and Nordic
governments.  According to Swedbank’s Latvian management, the lender is
already expanding in the Baltics and is committed to the region.
Swedbank’s position as the European Union’s second-best
capitalized lender after  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  means it has
the cash needed to invest in Latvia, said Maris Mancinskis,
chief executive officer of the bank’s unit in Riga.  Boom to Bust  “It’s good news for the Baltics that the Scandinavian
banks are in such good shape,” Mancinskis said in an interview.
“We have the capital and the capacity” to invest, he said.  Latvia’s  economic slump  four years ago, which followed a
boom cycle triggered by its 2004 EU accession, deepened to a
record 18 percent in 2009. Yet the successful deployment of
austerity measures helped restore growth to more than 5 percent
last year, trouncing the average in the rest of  Europe . The
economy will grow 4 percent this year, Dombrovskis said.  Swedish banks have “become a bit more restrictive, and
there may be a point with that,” Swedish Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  said in an interview in Riga yesterday. “High risk-
taking comes at a price, and then you have to lower your risk-
taking and ensure you have a better resistance.”  Surplus cash at Swedbank, the largest bank in the Baltics,
helped it pay for the loan portfolio of Latvian lender Hipoteku
un Zemes Banka AS and the Latvian mortgage portfolio of Allied
Irish Bank last year. SEB, the second-biggest Baltic lender,
acquired Hipoteku’s pension-management business.  ‘Mixed History’  The takeovers have tightened the banks’ grip on the market.
Nordic lenders, including Swedbank, SEB,  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ,
Norway’s  DNB ASA (DNB)  and Denmark’s  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , controlled 66.5
percent of Latvia’s lending market at the end of March last
year, compared with 64.8 percent at the end of 2008 and 63.6
percent at the end of 2007.  “We have a mixed history with the Swedish banks,” said
Dombrovskis. “Before the crisis, Swedish banks were more part
of the problem than part of the solution because it was a very
easy lending spree that they created, helping to overheat our
economy and helping a real estate bubble develop. With the
global financial crisis they suddenly cut our countries off and
we had a hard landing.”  Swedish banks began expanding in the Baltic states in the
late 1990s following the fall of communism. Swedbank bought a
stake in  Estonia ’s Hansabank in 1998 and took full control in
2005. SEB gained control of Estonia’s Eesti Uhispank, Latvia’s
Latvijas Unibanka and  Lithuania ’s Vilniaus Bankas in 2000.  No ‘Privilege’  After Latvia’s property bubble burst, Swedbank suffered a
record net loss of 10.5 billion kronor ($1.63 billion) in 2009.
The bank turned to shareholders for fresh capital and relied on
Swedish government guarantees to enable it to raise funds in
 capital markets . Finance Minister  Anders Borg  in 2009 said the
banks’ shareholders bore responsibility for “taking on huge
risks.”  In June 2009, Borg said his government was ready to “deal
quite forcefully” to safeguard taxpayers’ interests against
risks from the Baltic crisis and that Sweden would be ready to
recapitalize Swedbank and SEB in exchange for common stock, or
nationalize them, if needed. Sweden took a leading role in
pushing for an international bailout of Latvia and agreed to
lend the country 10 billion kronor as part of that package.  Citadele Bank Sale  Latvia’s government may yet get a chance to diversify its
bank market through the sale of Citadele Banka AS, the state-
owned retail lender formed from Parex Banka. It holds 75 percent
of Citadele and the  European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development  owns the rest. Citadele has 41 branches and
service centers in Latvia and units in Estonia, Lithuania,
 Azerbaijan , Germany, Ukraine,  Russia , Belarus and  Kazakhstan .  Latvia’s government may yet get a chance to diversify its
bank market through the sale of Citadele Banka AS, the state-
owned retail lender formed from Parex Banka. Still, the
government isn’t counting on a sale “in the near future” as
“interest is not as high as we would have wished,” Dombrovskis
said.  While the government wants a strategic investor willing to
develop Citadele’s business, Latvia isn’t in a position to be
too selective, he said.  “We don’t have so much of a privilege to give preference
to an investor because there are not so many investors willing
to buy the bank,” Dombrovskis said. A Swedish bank bidding for
the lender would be unlikely “to be rejected,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net 
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  