-- Obama Makes Plea for Business Support for Spending Deal
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2013-02-28T01:50:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/obama-makes-plea-for-business-support-for-spending-deal.html
President  Barack Obama  made a plea
to business leaders to pressure Republicans to compromise to
stop automatic federal spending cuts that he warned would slowly
damage the U.S. economy.  “This is not a cliff, but it is a tumble downward,” Obama
said tonight in Washington at the winter meeting of the Business
Council, an organization of 136 U.S. business executives from
large corporations.  The president spoke two days before $85 billion in
automatic spending cuts begin to take effect, with officials in
both parties signaling that a deal to head them off is unlikely.  In the first weeks after the reductions start kicking in,
“a lot of people may not notice the full impact,” he said,
“but this is going to be a big hit on the economy.”  Obama has invited congressional leaders to a meeting at the
White House on March 1, the deadline day. House Speaker John Boehner told fellow Republicans today that he doesn’t expect it
to be a negotiating session.  The parties are far apart on how to replace the cuts
totaling $1.2 trillion over nine years, with $85 billion in the
remaining seven months of this fiscal year. Democrats insist tax
increases must be part of a replacement plan, an approach
Republican leaders oppose.  Getting a deal means “Democrats have to accept the need
for entitlement reform,” Obama said. “But it also means
Republicans are going to need to accept additional revenues.”  Business Help  “If the business community speaks out for such a sensible,
balanced and responsible approach, then eventually it will get
done,” he said. Obama later took questions from the group in a
closed-door session.  Dow Chemical Co., whose Chief Executive Officer Andrew Liveris is chairman of the Business Council, supports “a
balanced and bipartisan approach” to deficit reduction “as
opposed to short-term fixes,” Nancy Lamb, a company
spokeswoman, said in a statement e-mailed prior to Obama’s
speech.  Obama administration officials have indicated they expect
that Republican congressional leaders will relent and negotiate
an agreement that includes curtailing tax breaks for top earners
once the spending reductions begin to have an impact in home
districts, which may take weeks.  Economic Impact  The spending cuts, known as sequestration, will reduce
economic growth by 0.5 percentage point this year and wipe out
350,000 jobs if they remain in place through December, according
to the median forecast of 26 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
last week.  A majority of the economists also said they expect a
resolution of the standoff between Obama and congressional
Republicans, with the median forecast of 21 responses predicting
a compromise in 30 days. Such an outcome would result in little
erosion to growth, the survey showed.  Investors have signaled they aren’t concerned about the
impact on the world’s largest economy. U.S. stocks rose, sending
the Dow Jones Industrial Average to a five-year high. The
Standard & Poor’s  500 Index (SPX)  rose 1.3 percent to 1,515.99 at 4
p.m. in New York. The Dow added 175.24 points, or 1.3 percent,
to 14,075.37.  Treasury 10-year notes fell for a second day. The benchmark
10-year yield rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point,
to 1.90 percent at 5 p.m. New York time, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices.  Defense Firms  Investors have cooled to defense and aerospace firms, which
would be disproportionately hit by the spending cuts. The
Standard & Poor’s Aerospace and Defense Index  gained  7.2 percent
in the past 12 months, trailing the 10.9 percent gain for the
broader Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  CEO Louis Chenevert, a member of
the Business Council’s executive committee, warned sequestration
would reduce his company’s profits this year and in 2014. United
Technologies received 17.5 percent of its $57.7 billion of
revenue from U.S. government contracts last year.  “Sequestration, in my view, looks more likely,” Chenevert
said Feb. 21 at the Barclays Capital Industrial Select
Conference in Miami. “We continue to wait for more clarity. I
think the impact on our business would be limited in 2013 at
this point in time.”  The spending cuts will reduce earnings per share by as much
as 10 cents this year “in the worst case scenario,” Chenevert
said. The Hartford, Connecticut-based company predicted in
December that its full-year profit will be between $5.85 to
$6.15 a share.  Congressional Leaders  Republicans Boehner and Mitch McConnell, the Senate
minority leader, and Democrats Harry Reid, the Senate majority
leader, and Nancy Pelosi, the House minority leader, will attend
the March 1 meeting. Boehner said at a closed Republican caucus
that he considers it a “listening session,” Representative
Lynn Westmoreland of Georgia said.  Obama has until 11:59 p.m. on March 1 to issue an order
officially putting the cuts into effect.  Pelosi, of California, said in a statement that Democrats
will press for “a balanced, bipartisan solution to avoid the
unemployment and economic uncertainty” the cuts would cause.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  