-- Hochtief Looks at Divestments to Add to Airports Disposal
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-02-28T09:35:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/hochtief-considers-further-unit-sales-to-join-airport-divestment.html
Hochtief AG (HOT) , the German builder
controlled by  Spain ’s  Actividades de Construccion & Servicios
SA , may sell facility and energy-management, project and real-
estate development units to focus on higher-margin divisions.  The sales would be in addition to plans to offload the
airports division, with proceeds dedicated to repaying debt,
investing in the infrastructure division and entering new
industries, the Essen-based company said today in a  statement .  “With these measures we can return Hochtief to a
sustainable growth trajectory, become more profitable and
deliver on our guidance,” Chief Executive Officer Marcelino Fernandez Verdes, who assumed the role in November, said in the
statement.  Fernandez Verdes, who joined Madrid-based ACS in 1987
before moving to Hochtief initially as chief operating officer
last March, is working on increasing margins at the company,
 Germany ’s largest builder. Hochtief scrapped the sale of its
airports unit in early 2012, the second time in a little more
than a year that the disposal was abandoned, after failing to
get its target price.  During the second auction, bidders including  Vinci SA (DG) ,
 Europe ’s biggest builder, and  China ’s HNA Group, offered more
than 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) for the unit, while Hochtief
valued it at as much as 1.6 billion euros, people familiar with
the process said at the time.  Stock Drops  Hochtief  fell  as much as 8 percent to 51.12 euros, the
biggest intraday drop since March 27, and was trading 7.1
percent lower 10:34 a.m. in Frankfurt. That pared the stock’s
gain this year to 17 percent, valuing the company at 3.97
billion euros.  Pretax profit last year was 546 million euros compared with
a 127 million-euro loss in 2011, Hochtief said. Earnings were in
line with the 550 million-euro average  estimate  of 12 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Revenue climbed 9.6 percent to 25.5
billion euros. Hochtief plans a dividend of 1 euro a share.  The builder of  Frankfurt ’s Commerzbank Tower also said it’s
starting a cost-efficiency program to reduce the effects of
unprofitable projects. Hochtief didn’t specify a time frame or
target for the program, which will streamline the organization
and diversify financing sources.  Order Forecast  New orders in 2013 will probably decline, Hochtief said.
Pretax profit and net income  will rise  10 percent to 20 percent,
excluding one-time items such as restructuring costs and unit
sales. The company said it anticipates achieving a net cash
position by the end of 2014. Fernandez Verdes said at a press
conference in Dusseldorf, Germany, today that Hochtief doesn’t
have further earnings target for next year.  The 2013 forecast “does not live up to expectations,”
Ingbert Faust, a Frankfurt-based analyst at Equinet who
recommends buying Hochtief stock, said in a note to clients.
“However, the strategic market statements fulfill market
expectations.”  The company valued assets held for sale at the end of
December, which included the airports and its Leighton
division’s telecommunications unit, at 1.9 billion euros.
Hochtief owns stakes in six airports serving cities including
Hamburg, Dusseldorf, Budapest and Tirana, Albania. Fraport AG,
the owner of Frankfurt airport, said in August 2011 that it and
RREEF had submitted a bid for Hochtief’s non-German airport
assets. Bloomberg reported plans last week to restart the
airport-division sale.  Airport Package  Hochtief wants to sell the airports business, excluding
assets in  Athens  that would be disposed of separately, as a
single unit, though it wouldn’t rule out breaking up the
division into two or three operations, Financial Officer Peter Sassenfeld said at the press conference.  The facility and energy-management operations, which
comprise Hochtief’s European solutions divisions, would be sold
in their entirety, while “strategic alliances” are an option
for the real-estate development units, which “currently tie up
considerable amounts of capital,” Hochtief said. It still plans
to sell its entire 50 percent holding in the Aurelis property-
management business.  The service solutions division reported net income for 2012
of 16 million euros on 700 million euros of work completed.  Hochtief may pay a special dividend following its
disposals, Fernandez Verdes said today.  New U.S. home sales increased by 8.9 percent in 2012,
according to the  Department of Commerce  and the U.S. Department
of Housing and Urban Development. Construction confidence in the
European Union meanwhile  fell  to its lowest in 19 months in
November before recovering in December, according to the
European Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Dusseldorf at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  