-- Lockheed Wins $334 Million F-35 Contract Before U.S. Cuts
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-03-01T05:19:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/lockheed-awarded-333-7-million-contract-for-eighth-f-35-batch.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  received a
$333.7 million U.S. downpayment to buy initial parts, components
and materials for an eighth batch of F-35 jets, as the Pentagon
locked in the funds hours before automatic budget cuts begin.  Yesterday’s action exempts the funds from the across-the-
board spending reductions known as sequestration that take
effect today because Pentagon officials have said contracts with
obligated dollars won’t be cut or terminated. The eighth
contract calls for 35 jets, including four aircraft for the U.K.
and two for  Norway , according to a Pentagon statement.  The agreement by the Pentagon and Lockheed underscores
their shared commitment to continued development of the
costliest U.S. weapon system. The  Department of Defense 
sheltered the F-35 funding from spending cuts even as officials
warn they will have to impose furloughs on civilian workers and
reduce troop training at the risk of combat readiness.  “The reality is that the procurement arm of the DoD is
charged with getting good prices,”  Howard Rubel , an analyst
with Jefferies & Co. in  New York , said in an e-mail. “The
sequester works against it. Lower dollars under sequester does
not mean more effective purchasing or lower unit costs.”  Rubel, who has a “hold” rating on Lockheed, said the
company understands “that lower unit costs will broaden the
plane’s appeal” as it’s marketed in the U.S. and abroad.  Supplier ‘Stability’  Lockheed, the world’s largest defense contractor, said in a
statement yesterday that it “will continue to drive down
costs” for the F-35.  “This award provides our supplier base the stability
needed to properly execute on our future production
commitments,” the Bethesda, Maryland-based company said. “We
will continue to drive down costs for these future aircraft.”  Cost estimates for the F-35, known as the Joint Strike
Fighter, have ballooned to $395.7 billion, a 70 percent increase
since 2001. Pentagon officials have grown increasingly critical
in pressing Lockheed to reduce costs.  The Pentagon’s top weapons buyer, Frank Kendall, faulted
the company in November for being too “focused on short-term
business goals” and not “focused more on execution of program
and successful delivery of the product.”  Yesterday’s contract action is one of several such moves
that the Pentagon has taken to shelter F-35 funding before
automatic cuts were to be triggered. The previous actions came
before a Jan. 1 deadline for sequestration that was averted by a
last-minute deal to delay the cuts for two months.  Previous Moves  On Dec. 14, Lockheed received a Pentagon contract
guaranteeing a final installment of about $127.7 million for the
fifth production lot of F-35 fighters, bringing the total value
to about $3.8 billion.  On Dec. 28, the Pentagon awarded the company a contract for
the sixth installment of F-35s that can’t exceed $3.67 billion.
The “undefinitized contract action” set a threshold target and
obligates an unspecified amount to begin assembly of additional
aircraft.  Last year, Lockheed received initial funding for a seventh
production contract similar to yesterday’s award.  The F-35 fleet was cleared yesterday to resume flight
operations, according to the Pentagon, ending a suspension
ordered Feb. 22 after the discovery of a cracked engine blade in
one of the stealth jets.  The affected engine had been subjected to “prolonged
exposure to high levels of heat and other operational stresses”
in testing, the Pentagon F-35 office said in a statement.  Inspections of other F-35 fighter jets didn’t find any
other “cracks or signs of similar engine stress,” and no
redesign will be needed for the engines built by  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s  Pratt & Whitney  unit, according to the
statement.  Pratt & Whitney, which makes the plane’s engine, had
recommended that the Pentagon lift the suspension.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  