-- Hollande Sees Solution on Syria in Weeks Before Meeting Putin
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-02-28T07:59:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/hollande-sees-solution-on-syria-in-weeks-before-meeting-putin.html
French President  Francois Hollande 
said he hoped for a “political solution” within weeks to a
two-year conflict in  Syria , ending the escalation of violence,
as he prepared for talks with Russian leader  Vladimir Putin .  Hollande, who is making his first visit to  Russia  since his
election last year, said he’ll discuss the prospects for a power
transition in Syria with Putin during a meeting today in Moscow.
Speaking in an  interview  broadcast on Echo Moskvy radio station,
Hollande said his country isn’t sending weapons to Syrian rebels
fighting to topple the government of President Bashar al-Assad
even as other nations may be arming opposition forces.  “Syria’s opposition is broadening, it’s becoming more
legitimate and accepting a share of responsibility for the
country’s future,” Hollande said in the interview, according to
the Russian translation of his remarks. “President Putin has
created conditions for the Syrian opposition to establish
contact with the authorities.”  Russia hasn’t ceased its arms exports to Syria’s government
during the conflict and has blocked United Nations sanctions
against the regime. It also rejects opposition demands for the
Syrian leader’s resignation before any transition talks. The
uprising that started in March 2011 has killed about 70,000
people, according to UN estimates.  Russia, which has Soviet-era ties with Syria, is seeking a
leading role as a mediator. Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov 
received his Syrian counterpart, Walid Al-Muallem, in Moscow
this week. Arab League Secretary-General Nabil El-Arabi, who met
Lavrov Feb. 20 along with the foreign ministers of  Egypt , Iraq
and Lebanon, said all sides agreed to seek a political solution
to the civil war.  Peace Talks  Russia is willing to host peace talks, Lavrov has said.
Syria’s government is prepared to negotiate with the opposition,
including armed groups, Muallem said Feb. 25 in Moscow.  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  said Feb. 26 Syrian
rebels should be given aid if Assad refuses to join talks and
goes on killing his own people. France is complying with
Europe’s arm embargo against Syria, Hollande said.  Other nations will be sending arms to rebels “if we don’t
find a political solution,” he said today. “ France  is true to
its word. There’s an embargo that was imposed by Europe and we
are abiding by that embargo. But if one of the sides needs
weapons, their delivery by other countries can’t be ruled out,
and sometimes not into the best hands.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Moscow at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  