-- Hollande Says He’s Narrowed Differences With Putin Over Syria
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-02-28T16:44:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/hollande-says-he-s-narrowed-differences-with-putin-over-syria.html
French President  Francois Hollande 
said he’s narrowed differences over Syria with  Vladimir Putin ,
even though the Russian leader insisted on referring to Bashar al-Assad’s regime as the legitimate government of the country.  “We have progressed,” Hollande said today at a press
conference in Moscow after meeting Putin. “We share the same
objective, which is to prevent the breakup of the country and
not allow terrorists to profit from the chaos.”  Syrian rebels have been trying to force Assad from power
since March 2011. The conflict has killed about 70,000 people,
according to United Nations estimates, and created almost 1
million refugees.  Earlier today, Hollande told a Russian radio station that
he hoped for a “political solution” within weeks to the two-
year conflict in  Syria . He said there can be no “convergence of
views” with Assad staying in power.  Responding to a question on why the French are backing
rebels in Syria and fighting rebels in Mali, Putin said in both
cases Russia backs the “legitimate” governments.  “We have to improvise a dialogue that part of the
opposition can join,” Hollande said. “My responsibility is to
find a political settlement.”  Russia hasn’t ceased its arms exports to Syria’s government
during the conflict and has blocked United Nations sanctions
against the regime. It also rejects opposition demands for the
Syrian leader’s resignation before any transition talks.  Soviet Ties  Russia, which has Soviet-era ties with Syria, is seeking a
leading role as a mediator. Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said
Russia is willing to host Syria peace talks.  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  said Feb. 26 Syrian
rebels should be given aid if Assad refuses to join talks and
goes on killing his own people. Kerry announced today in  Rome 
that the U.S. will start supplying non-lethal aid to rebels.  France  is complying with Europe’s arm embargo against
Syria, Hollande said. Other nations will be sending arms to
rebels “if we don’t find a political solution,” he said.  Hollande, making his first visit to Russia since his
election last year, said he also discussed Iran with Putin, with
both saying they are opposed to nuclear proliferation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  