-- Hollande Is Most Unpopular French Leader Since 1981 on Economy
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2013-02-28T16:47:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/hollande-is-most-unpopular-french-leader-since-1981-on-economy.html
President Francois Hollande’s
popularity slipped this month as  France ’s economic slump
rendered more people jobless, leaving him the most unpopular
leader since 1981, a poll showed.  After nine months in office, Hollande’s approval rating
fell five points to 30 percent, the poll for Figaro Magazine
weekly by  TNS-Sofres showed  today. His predecessor Nicolas Sarkozy had a 37 percent rating at the same point in his
presidency in March 2008. The small bump in popularity Hollande
got from France’s military intervention in Mali has evaporated,
the pollster said.  “Already at the start of Hollande’s presidency, there was
little confidence in him, especially from opposition parties’
supporters,” Carine Marce a political analyst at TNS, said in
an interview. “The positive effect of the war in  Mali  has
vanished and news of low growth, high deficits and unemployment
are accelerating the fall.”  The Socialist president is falling behind on nearly every
economic pledge he’s made for 2013 -- from a 0.8 percent
economic growth to shrinking the budget deficit to 3 percent of
gross domestic product. Still, nothing is heaping more criticism
on him, especially from his own supporters, than his inability
to spur job creation as he promised.  Jobless claims rose last month to a 15-year high at 3.17
million, the labor ministry said Feb. 26. The increase brings
such claims close to the country’s historic peak of 3.21 million
in January 1997, with no signs they’ll fall any time soon.  Breaking Promises  The European Commission forecast last week that the French
economy will expand 0.1 percent this year, far short of the
government’s 0.8 percent goal. The Commission said it expect
France’s unemployment to rise to 10.7 percent.  “Economic news coming from Brussels showed that he can’t
keep up with his promises,” Marce said.  Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault’s approval rating fell
five points to 28 percent, TNS said.  TNS-Sofres polled 1,000 respondents of ages 18 and more at
their homes between Feb. 21 and 25. The Paris-based institute
didn’t publish margins of error.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  