-- Molycorp Delays Report to Determine ‘Substantial’ Writedown
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2013-02-28T15:28:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/molycorp-delays-report-to-determine-substantial-writedown-2-.html
Molycorp Inc. (MCP) , owner of the largest
rare-earths deposit outside  China , said it needs more time to
file its annual 10-K report so the company can determine the
size of a “substantial” goodwill writedown.  The report, which was due to be filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission by March 1, is now expected
to be submitted by March 15, the  Greenwood Village , Colorado-
based company said today in a statement. Molycorp also postponed
the release of its fourth-quarter earnings results, which were
due today.  The impairment is related to the company’s June purchase of
Neo Material Technologies Inc. for C$1.3 billion ($1.27
billion), Luisa Moreno, a Toronto-based analyst at Euro Pacific
Canada Inc., said today in a telephone interview.  “It’s not aggressive to think that if Neo Material were
trading right now it would be trading with a market
capitalization of less than a billion dollars,” Moreno said.
“Most rare-earth stocks are down more than 50 percent.”  Molycorp may take a non-cash charge of “more than $300
million,” Moreno said.  Molycorp fell 8.3 percent to $5.72 at 9:55 a.m. in  New
York , bringing its  decline  in the past 12 months to 78 percent.
The shares earlier dropped to $5.60, the lowest since they
started trading in July 2010.  ‘Surprising’ Reaction  “What’s surprising to me is the ferocity of the market
reaction to the news,”  Jonathan Hykawy , a Toronto-based analyst
for Byron Capital Markets Ltd., said in an e-mail today. “This
charge is non-cash, so would not of itself impact the company’s
production ramp or prospects in any way.”  Molycorp has encountered delays in expanding its California
rare-earth mine and missed a production target last year. Rare
earths -- 17 elements used in magnets, oil refining and
batteries -- have tumbled in the past 18 months after consumers
delayed purchases and switched to cheaper alternatives following
an earlier price rally.  Molycorp said in November it was being investigated by the
SEC over the accuracy of its public disclosures. It fired Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Smith  in December.  Molycorp said Jan. 10 its Mountain Pass mine missed its
2012 goal of producing 19,050 metric tons of rare-earth oxides
by Dec. 31. The company pushed back the target until “mid-
year” and deferred an expansion to 40,000 tons.  Molycorp raised $375 million by selling bonds and shares in
January to help fund completion of Mountain Pass.  Jim Sims , a spokesman for Molycorp, declined to comment on
the impairment in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  