-- Bonus Cuts Leave Less Cash for London Luxury-Home Purchases
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-02-28T12:25:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/london-luxury-home-cash-purchases-plunge-on-lower-bonus-payments.html
Fewer than half of the luxury homes
bought in  London  last year were purchased with cash, down from
about two-thirds in 2011, as banks reined in bonuses, property
broker Cluttons LLP said.  Cash buyers fell to 49 percent from 74 percent a year
earlier, the London-based company said in an e-mailed statement.
Prices increased by about 4 percent last year.  “Banks are facing pressure from regulators, government,
shareholders and the public to clean up their act, which has
resulted in a softening in the big bonus culture,” Sue Foxley,
head of research at Cluttons, said in the statement.  Bankers in the European Union have the toughest
restrictions on remuneration among the Group of 20 nations. They
may face even stricter limits under a proposal drafted by
European Parliament lawmakers and national governments that
would ban bonuses worth more than twice bankers’ fixed pay.  The bonus pool for bankers in the  City of London  financial
district may have fallen by as much as a third to 4.4 billion
pounds ($7 billion) in 2012 and may plummet to about 1.6 billion
pounds this year, the Centre for Economics & Business Research
Ltd. said in November.  The U.K.’s financial industry will lose
43,000 jobs in six months through March as companies shrink and
reduce costs, according to a forecast from the  Confederation of
British Industry .  A “severely limited supply” of homes means the change has
had little effect on prices, according to Cluttons. The broker
said prime central London prices will continue to increase by
about 4 percent a year through 2017.  Price Recovery  London’s most expensive homes recouped price declines that
followed the financial crisis and prices are now 24 percent
higher than their 2007 peak, according to  Savills Plc. (SVS)  A weak
pound and growing number of foreign buyers seeking to shelter
their wealth from economic turmoil elsewhere made up for
declining earnings in Britan’s financial industry.  “Banker’s bonuses in the City have not been a big factor
in the market since the downturn,” Yolande Barnes, a director
of residential research at Savills, said by phone. “I suspect
the remuneration will remain the same; it’s just the way that it
will be paid. Base salaries could become a lot more variable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  