-- Hong Kong Investor Backs Ciris’s Microbial Coal-to-Gas Process
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2013-02-28T21:13:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/hong-kong-investor-backs-ciris-s-microbial-coal-to-gas-process.html
Ciris Energy Inc., a closely held
U.S. company that uses naturally occurring microbes to convert
coal to natural gas, received about $25 million from a Hong
Kong-based investor to fund projects and expand internationally.  The undisclosed investor is providing $15 million in
project financing and $10 million as equity in the company,
Chief Executive Officer Jay Short said in an interview today.
The capital will be used to expand into new sites in the U.S.
and other countries, with a focus on Asia, Short said.  The investment follows $12 million Ciris received in March
2012, a deal led by  ConocoPhillips (COP) , Short said. That financing
round also included returning investors Braemar Energy Ventures,
Rho Ventures LLC, Khosla Ventures and Energy Technology
Ventures, a partnership between  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG) ,  General
Electric Co. (GE)  and ConocoPhillips.  The latest financing was a very “late-stage venture
round,” Short said. “This is the last, what you would call,
VC-type round.” Short declined to say where Ciris is
considering expanding into Asia.  The company’s  technology  relies on microorganisms that
already exist underground, which are stimulated to consume coal
and emit methane. The process may enable extraction of natural
gas in more areas and others previously thought to be tapped
out, Short said.  “We can go into a coal-bed methane field that is no longer
producing gas and add nutrients to it and get on the order of 10
to 20 times more gas than the field ever had in the first
place,” Short said.  Gas that’s extracted from coal seams with conventional
methods is also generated by microbes. Ciris’s technology
accelerates that natural process, Short said.  “It takes months for this to work, which is pretty good
when you consider that the original gas took thousands of years
to make, if not longer,” Short said.  The company is collecting data from its first major
project, a 160-acre site in  Wyoming ’s Powder River Basin, Short
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in San Francisco at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  