-- Hong Kong Scraps Developers-Led Land Auctions as Supply Dwindles
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2013-02-28T10:46:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/hong-kong-scraps-developers-led-land-auctions-as-supply-dwindles.html
Hong Kong’s government will scrap a
near decade-old system of selling land after receiving minimum
bids from developers, as it seeks to increase the supply of
homes to curb  price  gains.  “We won’t have to wait for any developer to trigger a land
sale,” Secretary for Development Paul Chan told reporters today.
“They will be determined by the government based on the needs
of the market, to ensure land supply can be increased to the
fullest extent.” The system will be scrapped from April, he
said.  Hong Kong  home prices  have doubled since early 2009 on
near-record low mortgage rates and a lack of new supply,
benefiting developers including  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16)  and
 Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1)  Hong Kong Chief Executive Leung Chun-
ying has imposed property taxes on foreigners to curb demand and
has pledged to bolster land supply as discontent soared with the
rising unaffordability of homes.  The Hong Kong government introduced the so-called
application list system in 2004 after real estate prices plunged
during the Asian financial crisis and the severe acute
respiratory syndrome health crisis. Under the system, land
auctions are triggered only when developers promised to pay
minimum amounts for sites on a list.  Hong Kong halted regular land sales in 2002 and partially
resumed them in 2010.  For the past two fiscal years, developers only triggered
three land sale with the bids, Chan said. The government plans
to put 46 residential sites up for sale for the fiscal year
starting April, he said.  Since 2010 the government has introduced at least six
rounds of property curbing measures, including raising
transaction taxes and raising mortgage down-payment requirements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 