-- Mongolia Plans to Charge Rio’s Oyu Tolgoi Interest on Tax
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K o h n   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2013-02-28T07:09:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/mongolia-plans-to-charge-rio-s-oyu-tolgoi-interest-on-unpaid-tax.html
Mongolia plans to start charging
interest on allegedly unpaid tax owed by  Rio Tinto  Group’s Oyu
Tolgoi LLC, as talks continue over the future of the $6.6
billion copper and gold mine, the nation’s mining minister said.  Mongolia wants Oyu Tolgoi LLC, in which Rio controls 66
percent and the government the rest, to pay interest, even as
the two sides disagree on whether the tax payment was made. Oyu
Tolgoi  said  Feb. 5 that it pre-paid $150 million in tax in 2010
and 2011 and was due to receive credit for it last year. Mines
Minister Davaajav Gankhuyag said today that the payment was a
loan and tax obligations are still outstanding.  “Their tax will now be charged with interest,” which has
yet to be worked out, Gankhuyag said in an interview in  Ulan
Bator . “The Mongolia government did not do anything wrong. It’s
the investor side.”  The tax payment is one of several issues in an escalating
dispute between the government and Rio’s Oyu Tolgoi unit over
the mining project, which will make up 30 percent of Mongolia’s
economy once it’s in full production. The two sides are still in
talks, which include funding for Oyu Tolgoi’s development,
Gankhuyag said.  “We do not have the same position on all matters, we have
different positions in various topics, but I hope that we will
have a final decision soon,” said Davaajav. “We want to start
production at this mine as soon as possible.”  Budget Deadline  Oyu Tolgoi’s budget is only approved by both sides until
the end of this month, while London-based Rio Tinto has said
commercial scale operations are due to start by mid-year.  The board of Oyu Tolgoi is meeting today to discuss 13
major issues, the minister said. Among these are Mongolia’s plan
to introduce a new minerals law to govern the  mining industry 
and the annulment of earlier government decisions to grant
 Entree Gold Inc. (ETG) , a Canadian company that owns part of the Oyu
Tolgoi land, permits to extract minerals on the territory, he
said.  Rio Tinto has a direct 12.85 percent stake in Entree and a
10.7 percent stake is held by Rio’s  Turquoise Hill Resources
Ltd. (TRQ)  unit, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  President Tsakhia Elbegdorj this month criticized Rio Tinto
for cost overruns at Oyu Tolgoi and said Mongolia wants more
control of the project. The copper and gold mine is the second-
largest project that Rio is currently building.  In addition to Oyu Tolgoi’s tax prepayment, the company
also made a $100 million prepayment of dividends in 2010 and
2011, it said in its February statement. Separately, in 2012  Oyu
Tolgoi  paid a total of $280 million to Mongolia in taxes and
other fees, according to the statement.  The $250 million that Oyu Tolgoi said were tax and dividend
prepayments was actually a loan to the Mongolian government that
the country plans to repay in 2014 and 2015, with interest,
minister Gankhuyag said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Kohn in Ulan Bator at 
 mkohn5@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  