-- Online Travel Agencies Win Ruling on Florida Hotel Taxes
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   S e x t o n
-- 2013-03-01T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/online-travel-agencies-win-ruling-on-florida-hotel-taxes.html
Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  and other online travel
agencies should be taxed on what they pay for hotel rooms, not
for what they charge customers for those accommodations, a
Florida state appeals court ruled.  In a 2-1 decision upholding a lower-court ruling, the
Florida First District Court of Appeal in Tallahassee said
yesterday that the Tourist Development Act doesn’t apply to what
a company collects from customers who reserve rooms online.  The companies “are simply conduits through which consumers
can compare hotels and rates and book a reservation at the
chosen hotel,” the court ruled.  The underlying lawsuit, filed in Leon County Circuit Court
by 17 Florida counties, sought a declaratory statement that the
so-called bed tax applied to online travel agencies such as
Expedia,  Orbitz Worldwide Inc. (OWW) , Priceline.com Inc. and Sabre
Holdings Corp.’s Travelocity.  The counties argue that the companies should be taxed on
the markup fees they collect. The online companies contend the
markups are not fees associated with lodging costs. The lower
court found in April that the law was ambiguous and ruled that
the taxes didn’t apply to the companies.  “As the trial court here correctly determined, it is for
the Legislature, and not the judiciary to decide whether to
apply the tax to the full amount that the companies charge their
customers,” Appeals Court Judge  Bradford Thomas  wrote in
yesterday’s decision.  ‘Artificially Reduced’  In dissent, Judge  Philip Padovano  wrote that the bed tax
should be paid on the entire amount a tourist pays to stay in a
hotel room.  “That amount cannot be artificially reduced by setting a
wholesale rate for the room and then treating the difference on
the funds retained by an online travel company as if it is not
part of the money the tourist has paid to stay in the room,” he
wrote.  Fort Lauderdale attorney Edward A. Dion, a lawyer for the
counties, said they were examining their options, including
asking the appeals court to rehear the case or petitioning the
Florida Supreme Court to consider the issue.  Mark Holcomb of Madsen Goldman & Holcomb LLP, an attorney
for Bellevue, Washington-based Expedia, declined to comment on
the ruling.  The Travel Technology Association, whose members include
Expedia, Orbitz,  Priceline (PCLN)  and Travelocity, said in a statement
that the ruling “follows a trend” of state and federal courts
rebuffing efforts to levy hotel occupancy taxes on the
companies.  The case is Alachua County v. Expedia Inc., 1D12-2421,
Florida First District Court of Appeal (Tallahassee).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Sexton in Tallahassee, Florida, at 
 christinesextonwork@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  