-- Monte Paschi Receives EU4.07 Billion Bailout From Italy
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2013-02-28T14:09:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/monte-paschi-receives-4-07-billion-euros-in-government-bailout.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA ,
 Italy ’s third-largest bank, received a 4.07 billion-euro ($5.3
billion) bailout from the Italian state to help it reach a
capital requirement set by European regulators.  The funds include 171 million euros to cover interest
payments on existing aid as  Monte Paschi (BMPS)  will probably incur a
loss for 2012, the bank said in a statement today. Monte Paschi
received 1.9 billion euros in state aid in 2009 through the
issue of so-called Tremonti bonds, which have been converted
into new securities and form part of the amount requested.  “Of the major Italian banks, Monte Paschi is the one which
presents most downside risk,” analysts at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in  London , led by  Alberto Gallo , wrote in a
note to clients before the bailout was completed. The bank will
likely need more help going forward, as bad loans continue to
rise and its operating profits struggle, the analysts said.  Monte Paschi, engulfed by investigations of its former
managers, asked for state funds to boost capital after failing
to meet regulators’ minimum requirements. The lender said on
Feb. 6 it will take a 730 million-euro hit to its assets after
reviewing structured deals from 2008 and 2009 that hid losses on
earlier derivatives.  ‘Monti’ Bonds  Italy approved a law last year allowing Monte Paschi to
raise funds by selling securities to the government, labeled
“Monti” bonds after Prime Minister  Mario Monti . The securities
have a 9 percent coupon that may rise to as much as 15 percent.
In case of losses, Monte Paschi may pay the annual interest on
aid by giving shares to the government.  “The bank will find it difficult to repay the public aid
considering the tough environment,” analysts at Kepler Capital
Markets led by Annamaria Benassi wrote in a note today.  Monte Paschi rose 1.9 percent to 21.07 cents by 2:52 p.m.
in Milan. The  stock  is down 29 percent since  Bloomberg News 
first reported on Jan. 17 that the bank used a derivatives deal,
dubbed Santorini, to disguise losses before the bailout in 2009.  Chief Executive Officer Fabrizio Viola and Chairman
 Alessandro Profumo , appointed last year to turn around the
company, are seeking to revive profitability and restore
investors’ confidence amid allegations former management hid
losses related to three derivative transactions.  Siena prosecutors are probing the bank to see whether
crimes were committed by former executives related to market
manipulation, false accounting, obstruction of regulatory
activity related to the acquisition of Banca Antonveneta SpA and
fraud tied to derivatives trades, people familiar with the
situation have said, asking not to be identified.  -- With assistance from Francesca Cinelli in Milan. Editors:
Frank Connelly, Dan Liefgreen  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net 
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  