-- OPEC February Output Rises for First Time Since August in
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-02-28T20:34:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/opec-february-output-rises-for-first-time-since-august-in.html
OPEC  crude output rose for the first
time in six months as rising Libyan production outpaced a cut by
 Saudi Arabia , which has implemented a program aimed at curbing
excess supply and supporting prices, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Output in the 12-member Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries increased 97,000 barrels, or 0.3 percent, to an
average 30.699 million barrels a day this month from a revised
30.602 million in January, the survey of  oil companies ,
producers and analysts showed. The January total was revised
123,000 barrels a day higher, mostly because of a change to the
Kuwaiti production estimate.  Brent crude  for April settlement dropped 49 cents, or 0.4
percent, to end the session at $111.38 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Brent is the benchmark
contract for more than half the world’s oil. West Texas
Intermediate oil for April delivery fell 71 cents, or 0.8
percent, to $92.05 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange ,
the lowest settlement since Dec. 31.  “The most interesting point is that the Saudis are
sticking to their line,” said Julius Walker, global energy
markets strategist at UBS Securities LLC in  New York . “They’ve
reduced production from nearly 10 million barrels in less than a
year. This shows their intention to do what it takes to keep
prices at a level they are comfortable with.”  Saudi Decline  Saudi Arabia, OPEC’s biggest oil producer, pumped 9 million
barrels a day this month, the lowest level since May 2011.
Output was down 100,000 barrels a day from January and 900,000
barrels from May, when production reached the highest level
since at least January 1989.  The desert kingdom denied last month what it said were
suggestions that it cut oil production to push prices higher and
attributed the reduction to weaker demand, according to Ibrahim Al-Muhanna, an adviser to Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi . Consumption
fell in Saudi Arabia after peaking in the summer, Muhanna said.
Overseas demand also dropped because of slower euro-area growth
and concerns about budgetary challenges in the U.S., he said.  “The Saudis have done what they needed to do to eliminate
a glut of crude in the market,” Emerson said. “Brent is safely
above $100 a barrel so they can stop cutting back. They will
probably increase production in the second quarter.”  Libyan output  increased 130,000 barrels to 1.24 million
this month, the biggest gain of any member, the report showed.
Production rose because of the reopening of the country’s
Zueitina export terminal early this month.  Resumed Shipments  The Zueitina port and pipeline pumping complex shut in late
December because protesters prevented employees from going to
their offices, leading state-run National Oil Corp. to suspend
pumping crude into a pipeline. The harbor handled about 150,000
barrels a day of exports in 2010, according to data from the
U.S. Energy Information Administration.  Production in  Libya  plunged to 45,000 barrels a day in
August 2011 from 1.585 million that January, the last month
before an uprising that overthrew the government of  Muammar Qaddafi  disrupted output.  “There was a relatively rapid recovery after the country’s
civil war but Libya’s oil industry has been hit by a number of
problems,” Walker said. “Libyan capacity has yet to reach pre-
war levels. The production gain is a hopeful signal.”  Nigeria’s output  climbed 90,000 barrels to 2.08 million
barrels a day in February, the survey showed. It was the second-
biggest production advance. The country’s production is
recovering after flooding in September and October shut  oil
fields  in the Niger River delta.  Iran’s Ranking  Iran  pumped 2.63 million barrels a day, up 30,000 barrels
from January, according to the report. The country produced 2.63
million barrels a day last month, the lowest level since
February 1990. Output was down 820,000 barrels from February
2012. Iran, the group’s biggest producer after Saudi Arabia a
year ago, is now tied in sixth place.  Sanctions aimed at stopping the Islamic republic’s nuclear
program have hindered its ability to export crude oil. A
European Union ban on the purchase, transport, financing and
insurance of Iranian oil came into effect on July 1.  “Iran is taking a lot of the bite,” said  Sarah Emerson ,
managing director of Energy Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield,
 Massachusetts . “Other members have had it easy because Iranian
output is down so much from a year ago.”  Persian Gulf countries, the  United Arab Emirates  and
 Kuwait , also bolstered output this month. The UAE increased
production by 50,000 barrels a day to 2.65 million in February.
Kuwaiti output climbed 50,000 barrels a day to 2.95 million, the
most since September.  Production Declines  Angola  reduced output by 80,000 barrels to 1.73 million
barrels a day this month, the second-biggest decline, after
Saudi Arabia. There were some technical problems with some
offshore production blocks, Jose Miguel, a spokesman for the
Petroleum Ministry, said without giving more details in a
telephone interview today in Luanda.  Algeria cut production by 70,000 barrels to 1.13 million
barrels a day in February, the least since May 2003. Discoveries
last year won’t offset declines in output, Algerian Energy
Minister Youcef Yousfi said in Algiers on Feb. 20.  “OPEC is the midst of a delicate balancing act,” said
 John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based
hedge fund that focuses on energy. “A number of members are
struggling to maintain production rates.”  OPEC, provider of about 40 percent of the world’s oil,
maintained its official production ceiling at 30 million barrels
a day at a meeting Dec. 12 in Vienna. Ministers from the group’s
members are next scheduled to gather May 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 