-- Morgan Stanley Middle East Equity Chief Joins Dubai Boutique HK
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-02-28T12:02:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/morgan-stanley-middle-east-equity-chief-joins-dubai-boutique-hk.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s head of Middle East
equity sales and trading, Fahmi Alghussein, left to join Dubai-
based HK Advisory Services Ltd. after the Wall Street firm
shifted equity jobs from the U.A.E. to Saudi Arabia.  Alghussein, who worked at New York-based Morgan Stanley for
more than five years, confirmed his departure by phone today and
said he left the bank two weeks ago to seek a new challenge. A
Morgan Stanley spokesman declined to comment.  Morgan Stanley, the sixth-largest U.S. bank by assets,
followed Credit Suisse AG earlier this year in shifting its
Middle East and North Africa equities business to  Riyadh  from
Dubai, according to a banker familiar with the matter. Equity
trading in Saudi Arabia is surging and dwarfs the Dubai market,
where about 50 brokerages have closed after the emirate’s 2008
stock and real-estate crash.  Alghussein said  HK Advisory  was established in 2008 by Ali Husseini, a former managing director at Egyptian investment bank
EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, and Walid Kamhawi, who worked at
Blackstone Group LP, the world’s biggest private-equity firm. HK
Advisory  specializes  in capital raising, restructuring and
mergers and acquisitions in the Middle East,  Africa  and  Russia .  Alghussein worked at Citigroup Inc. and HSBC Holdings Plc
before joining Morgan Stanley in June 2007.  Morgan Stanley plans to eliminate about 1,600 jobs from its
investment bank and support staff in coming weeks, according to
a person with direct knowledge of the matter. Morgan Stanley
reduced staff by about 4,200 people in the first nine months of
last year through job cuts and unit sales, after saying in
December 2011 it would trim 1,600 jobs.  Shares valued at about 7.6 billion riyals ($2 billion) were
traded daily on average in Saudi Arabia last year, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. That compares with $52.5 million traded in
Dubai and $61.3 million in Qatar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  