-- Morgan Stanley Joins JPMorgan in Recommending Swap Flatteners
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2013-02-28T10:38:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/morgan-stanley-joins-jpmorgan-in-recommending-swap-flatteners.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan
Stanley are recommending investors take advantage of a record
difference between the cost of short- and long-term bond
insurance to hedge against  Europe ’s debt crisis reigniting.  It costs 44 basis points more to insure investment-grade
corporate debt for 10 years than it does to buy five-year
protection using the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-
default swaps. The gap reached 46 basis points last week and is
up from five basis points at the start of 2012.  Investors can profit by buying short-dated contracts and
selling longer-end protection in a so-called curve flattening
trade, according to the New York-based banks. The difference
between near- and long-term insurance costs has been becoming
increasingly exaggerated since August, after European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  vowed to do whatever’s necessary to
protect the euro.  “Credit volatility and curve flatteners remain our
preferred hedges,” Andrew Sheets, the head of European credit
strategy at Morgan Stanley in  London , wrote in a note. “The
greatest risk to European credit remains a return of sovereign-
led systemic risk.”  Long-term debt insurance typically costs more than short-
dated protection, though Draghi’s support for the European
single currency has increased the gap, or steepened the credit
curve. The spread between three- and five-year default
protection is also near the widest ever, at 42 basis points
compared with 12 basis points in September 2011, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Curves Inverted  The relationships became inverted at the peak of the global
financial crisis in 2008, when it cost 31 basis points more to
insure bonds for three years than for five, and 38 basis points
more for five years than for 10. Those inverted yield curves
signalled that investors perceived  default risk  as imminent.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a contract protecting 10 million euros ($13 million) of debt for
five years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  “People are overly comfortable with short-dated risk,”
said Saul Doctor, a strategist at JPMorgan in London.
“Flatteners at the moment are an inexpensive hedge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  