-- Otsuka, Lundbeck Win Approval for Monthly Abilify Shot
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-03-01T16:53:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/otsuka-lundbeck-win-approval-for-monthly-abilify-shot.html
Otsuka Holdings Co. (4578)  and  H. Lundbeck
A/S (LUN)  won approval from U.S. regulators to market a new
formulation of the mood-stabilizing drug Abilify as a once-
monthly injection to treat schizophrenia.  The Food and Drug Administration cleared Abilify Maintena,
a freeze-dried version of Abilify reconstituted with water to
allow for a long-acting effect, the companies said today in a
statement. Abilify currently is used daily.  The patent that protects the daily form of Abilify from
generic competition expires in 2015 in the U.S., where it’s
marketed by Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. The treatment generated
$2.8 billion in 2012 sales for Bristol-Myers, making it the
company’s best seller. Otsuka, the Tokyo-based developer of
Abilify, created a partnership with Copenhagen-based Lundbeck
for the longer-lasting dose.  Otsuka rose 1.4 percent to 3,010 yen in  Tokyo , the highest
price since the company’s initial public offering in December
2010. Lundbeck advanced 3.2 percent, the biggest gain since Nov.
7, to 99.95 kroner in Copenhagen.  In a 52-week study, once-monthly Abilify significantly
delayed the time to relapse compared with a placebo, Otsuka and
Lundbeck said in a statement. The FDA had rejected the
companies’ drug application last year after an inspection
spotted deficiencies at a sterile water supplier.  Rival Medicines  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  has been selling a once-monthly
schizophrenia drug called Invega Sustenna since it was approved
by the FDA in 2009. Dublin-based  Alkermes Plc (ALKS)  is developing a
similar drug that once in the body converts to the active
ingredient in Abilify, aripiprazole.  J&J, based in  New Brunswick , New Jersey, began in June a
final-phase trial on a three-month formulation of Invega
Sustenna using Alkermes’ technology. Alkermes has said it
expects final-phase trial results on its drug aripiprazole
lauroxil by the end of 2013  Invega Sustenna generated $796 million in sales last year
for J&J, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  