-- FHA Revamp Gets Senate Support as U.S. House Remains Divided
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-02-28T20:47:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/housing-finance-gets-cooperative-look-in-senate-as-house-fights.html
Leaders of the Senate Banking
Committee promised a bipartisan bill to restructure the  Federal
Housing Administration  as it faces its first shortfall since it
was founded in the 1930s.  The pledge today by Senator  Tim Johnson , a South Dakota
Democrat and chairman of the panel, and ranking member Michael Crapo, a Republican from  Idaho , contrasts with partisan
divisions over the future of the FHA in the  House of
Representatives .  “I hope that ranking member Crapo and I can work together
to reach a bipartisan agreement to ensure the FHA’s fiscal
stability,” Johnson said at a hearing on the agency. “I look
forward to your suggestions for ensuring the FHA’s fiscal health
now and in the future.”  The House approved an FHA bill last year while the Senate
failed to pass a measure. Since a November report that FHA could
need a subsidy of as much as $16.3 billion from the Treasury,
lawmakers have promised to push for broader changes than were
included in last year’s attempt.  House Democrats  have resisted that, leaving the Financial
Services Committee divided. On the Senate Banking Committee,
members on both sides of the aisle pushed for broader reform of
the government insurer.  “This committee needs to come together to craft bipartisan
legislation that will best equip the FHA to accurately assess
its risks and build capital to insure against them,” Crapo
said.  ‘More Robust’  Senator  Bob Corker , a Republican from  Tennessee , is among
the advocates of a more comprehensive FHA measure. “I hope it’s
a lot more robust than what was looked at last year and I think
there’s a chance it will be actually,” he said in an interview.  The FHA insures $1.1 trillion worth of mortgages and backs
about 15 percent of the U.S. loan originations for home
purchases, almost quadruple the 4 percent share it covered in
2007.  FHA could avoid taking Treasury aid even if the budget
President  Barack Obama  releases next month shows it has a
shortfall, FHA Commissioner Carol Galante has said. The agency
will take additional steps to reduce defaults on loans it
insures and raise the fees it charges for insurance, Galante
said.  Democrats in the House have argued that FHA played a
critical role in aiding the housing market after the 2008
financial crisis and that Congress should pass the FHA
legislation offered last year.  Previous Bill  That measure would have given FHA more authority to weed
out bad actors among the lenders who issue loans it insures,
among other things. Representative Michael Capuano, a Democrat
from  Massachusetts , said at a previous hearing that the
committee should pass last year’s bill instead of exploring
broader reform.  “If the chairman wants to put out the bill that this
committee put out last cycle, we should do it today,” Capuano
said at a Feb. 6 hearing. “Get it on the floor, get it
through.”  At today’s hearing, Senator  David Vitter , a Republican from
 Louisiana  who is working on an FHA bill, suggested indemnifying
the agency so that lenders are on the hook for losses from a
flawed loan that goes bad.  “It seems to me there should be some no-brainer things we
can do to shore up fiscal solvency,” Vitter said, so that “the
taxpayer isn’t on the hook for fraud, misrepresentation and not
meeting the proper criteria at origination.”  Broader Reform  Senator  Elizabeth Warren , a Democrat from Massachusetts,
said FHA reform should not be considered in isolation from
broader housing finance reform.  “FHA is not the only large actor in the mortgage
marketplace,” Warren said. “It is not the only one with the
taxpayer backup and it is not the only one that currently
threatens the taxpayer. We’ve got Fannie and Freddie out there
that are creating huge problems.”  Mortgage Bankers Association President and Chief Executive
Officer  David Stevens  said the private sector could fill the
demand for high-cost loans after the FHA’s loan limit, which
Congress increased to $729,750 during the housing crisis,
expires at the end of the year.  “The expiration would not greatly affect national FHA
lending and would expand the opportunity for private lenders to
serve higher-income borrowers,” Stevens said.  Phillip Swagel, a professor at the University of  Maryland ’s
School of Public Policy in  College Park , Maryland. suggested
tying the FHA’s downpayment level to a borrower’s credit score.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  