-- Overdraft Rules Get Go-Slow Approach at Consumer Bureau
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-02-28T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/overdraft-rules-get-go-slow-approach-at-consumer-bureau.html
The Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau, which last year began exploring whether to tighten rules
on checking overdraft fees, has decided against quick action
after hearing from smaller U.S. banks that rely on the revenue.  The bureau announced Feb. 22, 2012, that it was collecting
data on overdraft practices and would complete the inquiry by
the end of 2012. Nine large banks including  Bank of America
Corp. ,  U.S. Bancorp (USB)  and  Regions Financial Corp. (RF)  are providing
information, said four people briefed on the inquiry.  This month, the consumer bureau’s director,  Richard Cordray , said no decisions have been made about possible new
rules. He said that “over the next couple of years” the agency
will continue to work on the matter.  “If and when we act on this issue there will be plenty of
advance discussion,” Cordray told credit unions during a Feb. 5
conference call. “There will be opportunities if we do decide
to propose rules.”  Cordray noted on the call that the bureau “got an earful
from a number of you and many others on the issue of overdraft”
when it began seeking public comment a year ago.  Camden Fine, president of the  Independent Community Bankers
of America , said revenue from overdraft fees represents 3
percent to 15 percent of total income for institutions in his
association.  Fine said he has pointed out to Cordray that some smaller
banks depend “in substantial degree” on the fees, much more so
than large financial firms.  Wells Fargo & Co ., for example, took
in $4.3 billion in 2011 from fees including overdrafts, about 1
percent of the bank’s net revenue that year, financial
disclosures show.  Fed Rule  “There are more than a few community banks that would
really be hurt by restrictive regulation,” Fine said in an
interview. “The gross dollars go to megabanks, but those are a
tiny percentage of their balance sheet.”  Cordray told the credit unions the bureau is considering
whether oversight of overdraft fees is hurt by conflicting rules
from different federal regulators. The bureau, which absorbed
the consumer finance duties of the  Federal Reserve , may also
decide to revisit a 2010 Fed rule requiring that customers opt-
in to the fees before banks can charge them, said a person
briefed on the matter who spoke on condition of anonymity.  Michelle Person, a spokeswoman for the agency, said the
bureau’s report on overdraft practices will be released after
the staff finishes analyzing the bank data it has collected.
“The bureau’s oversight and monitoring of the market are
ongoing,” she said.  $31 Billion  Overdrafts occur when consumers spend or withdraw more
money than is available in their checking accounts, whether
through the use of  debit cards , checks, ATM withdrawals or
direct debits.  For a fee, banks will honor the transaction for customers
who have opted-in to what the banks call overdraft protection.
Large banks charge an average $35 per overdraft, compared with
$25 at community banks and  credit unions , according to Moebs
Services, a Lake Bluff, Illinois-based research firm.  In 2011, bank customers paid $31.6 billion in overdraft
fees, down from $33.1 billion in 2010, according to Moebs. About
15 million Americans overdraw their accounts 10 or more times a
year, the firm said.  The issue is a political dilemma for the consumer bureau
because two constituencies important to the agency are on
opposite sides.  ‘Use Clout’  Consumer groups -- the same ones who pushed hard for the
agency’s creation -- want tougher overdraft rules, saying that
banks don’t make their policies clear and that fees hit hardest
at people least able to afford them.  Community banks, which have pressed the bureau for
exemptions from rules, say stricter policies could choke off a
key stream of revenue. Their position resonates because the
banks and credit unions have been courted by Corday and other
officials as a counterweight to  Wall Street .  At a conference in  Washington  yesterday, Senator  Elizabeth Warren  urged credit unions to “use your clout” to get Cordray
confirmed for a full five-year term as director. Senate
Republicans have vowed to block confirmation of anyone to the
post unless Democrats approve structural changes to the agency,
which Warren helped set up.  “Do what you can to tell your senators and those who will
listen that it’s time to move on, time to stop re-litigating
settled decisions, and time to confirm a director,” said
Warren, a Massachusetts Democrat.  Nebraska Visit  The bureau’s outreach to small institutions helps explain
why one of its top officials accepted an invitation from Matthew
Williams, the president and chairman of Gothenburg State Bank in
 Nebraska , to visit in August and take a closer look at how local
institutions handle overdrafts.  Williams showed David Silberman, the agency’s associate
director for research, markets and regulations, that the bank
doesn’t charge fees if overdrafts are for $10 or less or if
customers haven’t overdrawn in the previous six months. Senior
bank officers meet each morning to discuss customers’ use of
overdrafts, Williams said.  Regulators “have to recognize that there is a difference
as to how community banks use overdrafts and serve their
customers versus a large bank,” Williams, who is serving as
chairman of the  American Bankers Association , said in an
interview.  ‘Predatory’ Features  While banking executives say many customers prefer paying a
fee to having their transactions declined at the point of sale,
there’s no consensus on how many people are choosing overdraft
services under the 2010 Fed rule. Moebs estimated the opt-in
rate at 77 percent; the Consumer Bankers Association found it
was 17 percent. The Center for Responsible Lending, a North
Carolina-based consumer group, found a rate of about 33 percent.  Consumer groups say the Fed rule didn’t go far enough and
that banks are luring customers through deceptive marketing.
“Overdrafts are rife with predatory features: they are high
priced, short-term and repaid directly from customers’
accounts,” said Rebecca Borne, a researcher with the North
Carolina group. “None of that has changed.”  In the Feb. 5 call with credit unions, Cordray said the
Fed’s opt-in rule was one of the “inconsistent approaches” to
overdrafts by banking regulators. The Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. issued guidelines in 2010 and the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, which supervises banks with
national charters such as Wells Fargo and JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
proposed its own guidance that same year. It has not been
finalized, OCC spokesman Bill Grassano said in an e-mail.  ‘Holding Off’  Robert Kottler, executive vice president and director of
retail and small business at Lafayette, Louisiana-based
 Iberiabank Corp. (IBKC) , said the uncertainty over the consumer
bureau’s intention and timing has led it to shelve plans for
changes to its overdraft programs.  He said the bank has considered two models, one that would
limit the number of times customers can overdraw, and another
that would base that limit on factors such as a customer’s
monthly income and how long he or she has had the account.  “We’re holding off on that because we don’t want to go
down a path if regulations are likely to affect it,” Kottler
said in an interview on Jan. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Maura Reynolds 
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  