-- Pacific Basin Posts First Annual Loss on RoRo Write-Off
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-02-28T09:56:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/pacific-basin-posts-first-annual-loss-on-roro-write-off.html
Pacific Basin Shipping Ltd. (2343) , Hong
Kong’s biggest dry-bulk carrier, posted its first annual loss
since listing in 2004 after a $199 million write-off against
vehicle-carrying ships and falling rates for moving commodities.  The net loss of $158.5 million compared with a  profit  of
$32 million a year earlier, the company said in a  filing  to Hong
Kong stock exchange today. That was smaller than the average
$189.9 million loss of 11 analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales rose 10 percent to $1.44 billion.  Pacific Basin, in September, agreed to sell all six of its
RoRo, or roll-on, roll-off, ships with forward deliveries after
making a $190 million first-half writedown against the vessels
as the  European debt crisis  damped rates. Chief Executive
Officer Mats Henrik Berglund, who took over in June, said the
company will revert to its traditional focus of operating
handysize and handymax dry-bulk  ships  as well as tugs.  “Pacific Basin has to cope with falling rates even though
we believe it outperforms peers,” Bonnie Chan, a Hong Kong-
based analyst with Macquarie Group Ltd., said before the
earnings were released. “Its core handysize segment should be
the first to recover within the dry-bulk industry as it has seen
the slowest supply growth in 2012.”  The ship operator said it plans to pay a final  dividend  of
5 Hong Kong cents per share, unchanged from a year earlier.  Pacific Basin rose 3.2 percent to HK$4.57 at the close in
Hong Kong trading, before the earnings were released. The stock
has  gained 12 percent  in the past year, outperforming the 6.7
percent advance in the benchmark Hang Seng Index.  Pacific Basin has bought eight ships since September. The
carrier has a total fleet of 239 vessels including new ship
orders, it said in the statement. The company uses small types
of vessels, mainly handysize and handymax, to move commodities
including metals, logs and grains.  The Baltic Dry Index, the benchmark for rates for hauling
commodities, rose 0.5 percent to 745 points in  London  yesterday.
It slumped to a 25-year low last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  