-- MetroPCS Investor Paulson & Co. Opposes Merger With T-Mobile
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-03-01T15:14:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/paulson-says-it-will-vote-to-oppose-metropcs-s-t-mobile-deal.html
Paulson & Co., the biggest investor
in  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS) , will vote to block the wireless
carrier’s merger with  Deutsche Telekom AG’s (DTE)  T-Mobile USA because
the combined company would hold too much debt.  “While we believe in the strategic merits of the proposed
combination, Paulson believes the proforma company has too much
debt at too high an interest rate to be competitive in the well-
capitalized U.S. wireless industry,” the firm, founded by
billionaire John Paulson, said yesterday in a statement.  Paulson & Co.’s opposition throws into question the plan by
Deutsche Telekom to take 74 percent of the combined business,
with MetroPCS shareholders getting $1.5 billion in cash.
Germany’s largest phone company is trying to reinvigorate T-
Mobile USA, the fourth-biggest U.S. wireless carrier, which
would add more subscribers and capacity from MetroPCS to compete
with Verizon Wireless,  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)   MetroPCS shares are  down  20 percent since the merger was
announced Oct. 3, a signal that investors aren’t optimistic
about the transaction. Since the Deutsche Telekom proposal, some
companies that had explored a deal with Richardson, Texas-based
MetroPCS have formed other agreements, reducing the potential
for competing counterbids.  MetroPCS rose less than 1 percent to $9.84 at 10:12 a.m. in
New York. Deutsche Telekom fell 2 percent to 8.06 euros in
 Frankfurt .  Debt Load  The combined company would hold $23.2 billion debt,
including capital leases, with $15 billion owed to Deutsche
Telekom, Paulson & Co. said in a letter to MetroPCS’s board.
Paulson & Co. said that would put MetroPCS’s net debt at 3.6
times 2013 earnings, more than double the  ratio  of the next
most-leveraged competitor,  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the
majority owner of Verizon Wireless.  MetroPCS currently has $2 billion of bonds outstanding with
an average coupon of 7.25 percent, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. The debt is equally split between notes maturing in
2018 and 2020.  Paulson & Co. added 8 million shares of MetroPCS in the
fourth quarter for a total of 31.8 million. It also acquired
shares representing a 4.3 percent stake in Sprint, the third-
largest U.S. wireless carrier.  John Paulson is worth about $11 billion, according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index . He has told clients he’s focusing
on event-driven investing this year after losses on wrong-way
bets on the U.S. and European economies over the previous two
years left the firm with $18 billion in assets, down from a peak
of $38 billion in 2011. Event-driven managers bet on companies
facing mergers, spinoffs and bankruptcies.  More Opposition  P. Schoenfeld Asset Management, which represents holders of
8.5 million shares, or about a 2.3 percent of the company’s
stock, has also said it is opposing the merger.  While MetroPCS once had many suitors, finding a new buyer
now could be difficult. Prior to accepting the Deutsche Telekom
offer, the company had a frenzy of deal discussions with eight
potential partners, it said in a November filing.  Sprint considered a $13.39 a share cash and stock offer for
MetroPCS year ago, according to people familiar with the matter.
Sprint has since moved on, offering $2.97 a share to buy out its
wireless venture partner  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)   And  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  offered $11 a share, including $1.2
billion in cash, for MetroPCS, according to a person familiar
with the matter. The offer was rejected, according to the
filing. Dish, the U.S. satellite carrier, is also vying for
Clearwire, offering $3.30 a share in a counterbid to Sprint.  Clearwire has also faced opposition from some shareholders
over its agreement with Sprint. Crest Financial Ltd. and Mount
Kellett Capital Management LP have lobbied for a better offer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  