-- Petroleos Mexicanos to Raise $9.8 Billion in Debt This Year
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2013-02-28T21:18:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/petroleos-mexicanos-to-raise-9-8-billion-in-debt-this-year.html
Petroleos Mexicanos , the world’s
fourth-largest crude producer, plans to borrow as much as $9.8
billion this year, according to a quarterly presentation filed
by the state-owned company.  Pemex, as the company is known, will raise between $4
billion and $5 billion of bonds in international markets and
between $2 billion and $2.5 billion in Mexico, the oil producer
said. The rest of the funding will come from loans from
commercial and export banks.  The company, based in Mexico City, is cutting borrowing
costs amid speculation that President Enrique Pena Nieto will
reduce the company’s tax burden and relax restrictions that are
hindering its ability to boost investments and increase output.
Finance Minister Luis Videgaray said Jan. 8 that Congress will
pass the energy overhaul in the second half of this year.  Pemex, which issued more bonds last year than any other
Mexican company, plans to allocate about $6.4 billion of the
funds raised this year to pay for other credits. Total
indebtedness for the company will increase about $3.3 billion,
the presentation shows.  Pemex is increasing capital expenditures this year to a
record $25.3 billion as it expands its exploration activities in
the deep waters of the Gulf of  Mexico . Last year the producer
made two ultra-deep water discoveries on the Mexican side of the
Perdido, estimating that the area contains as much as 13 billion
barrels of oil.  Pemex sees an opportunity to explore about 40 areas in the
Mexican side of Perdido, Carlos Morales, the company’s
exploration and production chief, said today in a conference
call with analysts. Pemex will allocate $3 billion for
exploration in 2013, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  