-- Petrobras in Talks With Sinopec to Develop Brazil Refineries
-- B y   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2013-02-28T21:18:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/petrobras-in-talks-with-sinopec-to-develop-refineries-in-brazil.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the world’s
most indebted publicly traded oil company, is in talks with
 China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028)  to build a refinery in  Brazil 
to meet growing domestic demand, Brazil’s energy minister said.  The state-controlled crude producers are also discussing
partnerships for oil block auctions this year in Brazil, Edison Lobao told reporters in Brasilia today. Brazil’s government
advised Petrobras Chief Executive Officer Maria das Gracas Foster to seek partnerships in China, where she is now, he said.  Since 2009, Petrobras’s refining capacity shortages
prompted the Rio de Janeiro-based company to increase imports of
gasoline, which it sells at a loss. Petrobras has earmarked
$24.9 billion of its $236.5 billion, 2012-2016 business plan to
expand refinery capacity, including completing two new
refineries in the period. Three other planned refineries won’t
be finished until at least 2017, according to the business plan.  “Petrobras Chief Executive Graca Foster is in  China  to
negotiate with Sinopec to finance refineries and also to form a
partnership to explore pre-salt oil and take part in oil
auctions,” Lobao said.  An auction of non-conventional gas blocks originally slated
for December will be held in October, he said. Brazil has said
it will hold two additional oil auctions in 2013, one in May and
one in November. The second one will be for so-called pre-salt
blocks, in which Petrobras is required to be the operator in all
ventures.  Sinopec, as the Chinese oil producer is known, operates in
Brazil through joint ventures with Portugal’s  Galp Energia SGPS
SA (GALP)  and Spain’s Repsol SA and also has petrochemicals operations
in the country.  Petrobras  shares  fell 1.6 percent to 14.49 reais in Sao
Paulo trading today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  