-- Peugeot Sells 1 Billion-Euro Bond to Boost Finances
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-02-28T17:14:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/peugeot-sells-1-billion-euro-bond-to-boost-finances.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  sold a 1
billion-euro ($1.31 billion) bond to boost the financing of 
Europe’s second-largest automaker.  The bond, which has a five-year maturity, had an order book
of 4.3 billion euros, the Paris-based carmaker said in a
statement today.  “We want to maintain a high level of financial security,”
Chief Financial Officer Jean-Baptiste de Chatillon said in the
statement. “We are delighted with the success of this
operation.”  Peugeot reported a 576 million-euro operating loss for 2012
as a recession caused industrywide sales in the region to shrink
for a fifth consecutive year. Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin vowed on Feb. 13 to put Peugeot on a break-even level by
end of 2014 through spending reductions and a new strategy that
includes moving its Peugeot brand upscale.  Peugeot’s credit rating was cut one step this week to four
levels below investment grade by Fitch Ratings, which said a
contraction in  Europe ’s car market will put the auto
manufacturer’s plans to restore cash flow at risk.  Peugeot’s long-term debt was lowered to B+ from BB- with a
negative outlook, indicating the credit-rating company may
downgrade it again, Fitch said.  Car-industry executives are forecasting another decline in
Europe in 2013, with Peugeot predicting a drop of 3 percent to 5
percent in the market.  Government Guarantees  France ’s government offered guarantees last year for as
much as 7 billion euros of new bond sales by the Banque PSA
Finance unit. Peugeot has won temporary European Union approval
to sell 1.2 billion euros in government-backed bonds and must
present more details on the plan to win full approval.  “This has nothing to do with the bonds issuances that will
benefit from the French state guarantee,” Pierre-Olivier Salmon, a spokesman for Peugeot, said in a phone interview
regarding today’s sale.  Peugeot is striving to maintain the division’s investment
grade at Moody’s Investors Service, with measures that include
refinancing the division’s debt. Standard & Poor’s Ratings
Services earlier this month cut Peugeot’s debt by one level and
downgraded debt at its banking unit to junk.  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , CA CIB, Deutsche Bank AG,  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA) , Natixis SA and  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  managed the sale,
Peugeot said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  