-- Philippine Peso Rises to One-Week High After Inflows Accelerate
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-02-28T04:05:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/philippine-peso-rises-to-one-week-high-after-inflows-accelerate.html
The Philippine peso rose to a one-
week high after global funds quickened purchases of local assets
amid optimism a strengthening economy will help the nation win
its first investment-grade debt rating.  The currency headed for a second monthly gain after the
central bank reported Feb. 14 that  net inflows  into stocks and
bonds were $1.3 billion in January, almost six times the amount
in December. Gross domestic product rose 6.6 percent last year,
the most since 2010, the latest data show. Finance Secretary
Cesar Purisima said last week he sees a good chance of a rating
upgrade by Fitch Ratings, which reviewed the country this month
and ranks it at the highest junk grade of BB+.  “Investors are still flocking to countries like the
 Philippines  where they are expecting better economic performance
and improved credit ratings,” said Emilio Neri, an economist at
 Bank of the Philippine Islands (BPI)  in  Manila .  The peso appreciated 0.1 percent today and this month to
40.662 per dollar at 11:17 a.m., according to Tullett Prebon
Plc. It touched 40.63, the strongest level since Feb. 20. One-
month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the
exchange rate used to price options, was unchanged at 3.9
percent.  Sustained easy monetary policy in the U.S. may support risk
appetite and push funds to  emerging markets  including the
Philippines, central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said
yesterday. Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas will consider further
prudential measures as appropriate “to aid market participants
in correctly pricing and perceiving risks,” he said. “We could
also further refine our conduct of monetary operations.”  Best Performer  The peso strengthened 5.4 percent in the past 12 months,
the best currency performance in Asia.  The yield on the 9.125 percent peso-denominated government
bonds due September 2016 declined one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 3.13 percent, according to prices from
Tradition Financial Services.  Bangko Sentral cut the rate it pays on about $44 billion in
its special-deposit accounts to 3 percent from more than 3.5
percent last month while maintaining the benchmark overnight
 borrowing rate  at a record-low 3.5 percent. There is room to
further refine the special accounts to keep them as a liquidity
management tool and not an investment outlet, Tetangco said on
Feb. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at   jregan19@bloomberg.net  