-- Phone Mergers Can’t Mean Higher Price, Less Competition, EU Says
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2013-02-28T09:16:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/phone-mergers-can-t-mean-higher-price-less-competition-eu-says.html
European Union Competition
Commissioner Joaquin Almunia said companies’ expansion can’t
come at the expense of customers or competition, in a response
to a call by telecommunications operators for looser merger
reviews.  “We do not -- and will not -- hinder corporate efforts to
scale up,” Almunia said in a speech in Brussels today. “At the
same time, we ought to make sure that companies do not carry out
their plans at the expense of European consumers, of their
business partners and the competition conditions in the EU.”  The European Telecommunications Network Operators’
Association, which represents 37 carriers including  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE)  and  France Telecom SA (FTE) , plans to submit a proposal to
the commission in the coming weeks that outlines the need for
consolidation to strengthen the industry, said people, asking
not to be identified because the plan is private. According to
the group, countries can sustain at most three national wireless
network operators and two fixed-line carriers in the long term,
the people said.  Almunia favors a single European market for
telecommunications and the industry would do well to consolidate
across national borders if such deals would lower prices and
bring new and better services, he said.  So far that’s not been the case, he said, as countries have
a few network operators that face little prospect of new rivals
emerging because of the costs of entering the market.  “Let us not forget that around 80 percent of mobile-phone
subscriptions are with four leading European groups,” he said
today. “Roaming prices remain high and prices vary a great
deal.”  Users pay as much as ten times more to use their
smartphones in countries where the biggest European operators
have no local competitors, Almunia said, citing research.  “This is the context in which some operators keep asking
us to favor consolidation in the industry,” Almunia said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  