-- Polish Post Rejects PKO Offer for Bank Pocztowy Unit
-- B y   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i   a n d   M a r t a   W a l d o c h
-- 2013-02-28T15:06:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/polish-post-rejects-pko-offer-for-bank-pocztowy-unit.html
Poczta Polska, Poland’s state-owned
postal services company, rejected  PKO Bank Polski SA (PKO) ’s offer to
buy more shares in its banking unit and said it wants to take
full control of Bank Pocztowy.  Poczta, which owns 75 percent of Pocztowy, has “enough
money” to buy out PKO’s 25 percent stake as well as increase
the unit’s capital, Chief Executive Officer Jerzy Jozkowiak said
at a press conference in Warsaw today. Jozkowiak wants the
transaction to be completed in “weeks rather than months.”  PKO, Poland’s largest bank, this month proposed to raise
its stake in Pocztowy to 50 percent minus one share from the
present 25 percent, offering to buy 290 million zloty ($93
million) of new shares. PKO is seeking takeover targets to speed
up expansion on central  Europe ’s biggest market as the lender
faces increased competition from domestic units of  Italy ’s
 UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Spain ’s Banco Santander SA.  PKO’s offer is “the worst scenario” for Poczta, its
management board member Janusz Wojas said today. Pocztowy is a
“key element” for the Polish postal company, which expects the
bank’s pretax profit to make up 60 percent of its group profit
in 2017, compared with 35 percent now, he said.  Pocztowy’s net income rose to 45.4 million zloty in 2012
from 29.6 million zloty a year earlier.  Elzbieta Anders, a PKO spokeswoman, had no immediate
comment when contacted by phone today. The government holds a
controlling 31 percent stake in Warsaw-based PKO.  Poczta hired McKinsey & Co. to advise it on PKO’s offer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   Marta Waldoch at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  