-- Publix Super Markets Said to Be Mulling a Bid for Harris Teeter
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2013-03-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/publix-super-markets-said-to-be-mulling-a-bid-for-harris-teeter.html
Harris Teeter Supermarkets Inc. (HTSI) , the
Matthews, North Carolina-based grocery chain exploring a sale,
has drawn interest from  Publix Super Markets Inc. (PUSH) , said people
with knowledge of the situation.  Royal Ahold NV (AH) , the Dutch owner of Stop & Shop stores, also
expressed interest in Harris Teeter, people familiar with the
situation said last week. Neither firm has made an offer,
according to the people familiar with the matter, who asked not
to be named because the process is private. First-round bids
aren’t due until mid-March or later, the people said.  If both  Publix  and Ahold make offers for the grocer, whose
market value is more than $2 billion, it could face an active
auction. Harris Teeter said last month it hired JP Morgan Chase
& Co. to seek options after two private-equity firms expressed
interest in buying the company. Publix would gain a new presence
in  Virginia  and North Carolina by acquiring Harris Teeter, said
BMO Capital Markets analyst Karen Short.  “Publix has more than adequate capacity on its balance
sheet to finance” a deal with 100 percent debt, given its net
cash position, she said in a Feb. 20 note. The question is
whether Publix would want to pay a large enough premium to
complete the deal.  “Publix rarely makes acquisitions, and valuation could be
a hurdle,” she wrote.  Representatives at Harris Teeter, JPMorgan and Publix
declined to comment. Closely held Publix has announced plans to
open two stores in North Carolina in 2014.  200 Stores  Harris Teeter advanced less than 1 percent to $43 at the
close yesterday in New York, the highest price in more than a
year.  The company was co-founded in 1960 by two North Carolina
grocers, according to its website. It has more than 200 stores
in North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia,  Georgia ,  Tennessee ,
 Maryland ,  Delaware , Florida and Washington, D.C. The company
reported $4.54 billion in revenue for the year ended Oct. 2.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization over the same period amounted to $306.5 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Grocery companies
typically sell at 7 to 10 times Ebitda, said a person familiar
with the situation, indicating Harris Teeter’s sale value could
be as much as $3.1 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Welch in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  