-- Raytheon Missile-Seeking Blimp to Get Test Run Guarding Capital
-- B y   S u s a n   B e r f i e l d
-- 2013-02-28T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/raytheon-missile-seeking-blimp-to-get-test-run-guarding-capital.html
Blimps were supposed to be the
military’s Next Big Thing. Not the German military circa 1933,
but the U.S. military in the 21st century.  Defense contractors have spent the last decade designing
football field-long, helium-filled balloons with radar that can
track planes, trains, automobiles -- and especially missiles.
Yet one by one, the projects have floated away, victims of
missed budgets and deadlines.  One of the few left goes by the catchy title Joint Land
Attack Cruise Missile Defense Elevated Netted Sensor System,
which its manufacturer,  Raytheon Co. (RTN) , calls JLENS for short.  In 2007 the plan was to develop the surveillance technology
and produce 32 of the blimps for about $6 billion. Five years
and $1.9 billion later, the U.S. Army had four it could test.  A January report by the Pentagon’s director of equipment
testing cited early problems with the blimps’ “friendly
aircraft identification capabilities” and “noncooperative
target recognition.” Translation: They had trouble reliably
spotting certain friends and foes.  Production of new JLENS blimps has been halted; budget
cutting is the stated reason. But the military is going to give
two sets -- they usually operate in pairs -- a last chance to
prove their worth.  ‘Icing’ on Cake  The plan is to leash them for three years at the Aberdeen
Proving Ground in  Maryland , practically under the nose of
Congress.  “Being close to D.C. wasn’t the intent, but it’s icing on
the cake,” says Dean Barten, the Army’s product manager for
JLENS.  Adds Mark Rose, Raytheon’s program director: “JLENS is an
extremely reliable system, and Raytheon looks forward to proving
this” at Aberdeen. “They couldn’t have found a more difficult
environment,” he says. “It’s the mid-Atlantic, there’s a huge
number of aircraft, commercial and private, to test the
system.” In the past tests, Rose says, the blimps have
“performed flawlessly.”  Chet Nagle, a former CIA officer and a JLENS booster, says
the  Persian Gulf  or  North Korea  would have been better spots to
demonstrate the system’s capabilities.  “But if you want to look good, you put it next to
 Washington , D.C. You make Congress feel safe,” he says.  Since 1790s  Blimps have been used by the military for centuries. In the
1790s,  France  launched balloons for reconnaissance in its war
against  Austria . During the Civil War, the Union Army sent a
balloon above Arlington,  Virginia , to spy on Confederate troops.  The Germans had their zeppelins in World War I, and the
Japanese used hydrogen-powered balloons to carry bombs across
the Pacific in World War II. Then the threats changed, and it
became more common to use planes and satellites for spying. For
years, the best-known blimp was Goodyear’s.  U.S. defense contractors have pitched blimps as a low-
budget threat detector. They can remain in the air longer than
planes, and there’s no need for expensive fuel or pilots.  “It’s a very affordable and cost-effective solution for
surveillance,” says Waltham, Massachusetts-based Raytheon’s
Rose.  10,000 Feet  The JLENS variety is designed to float at 10,000 feet and
come down every 30 days to have the helium topped off. They’re
moored to the ground with Kevlar cables. One is meant for wide,
360-degree surveillance that can reach 340 miles, and the other
for precision tracking. Each is 243 feet long.  That may sound like an easy target, but Raytheon isn’t
concerned about an enemy trying to take one down.  “We’ve shot missiles through it, and they make holes,”
says Rose. Although helium escapes, it does so gradually, he
adds. “It’s not like a party balloon that goes ‘pop.’”  It will be at least 18 months before the blimps go up. The
Army is requesting $60 million from Congress to set up the test
site and operate the craft for the first year. The fate of the
second pair is still up in the air.  “There’s discussion about continued testing in the U.S.,”
says Rose. “Or they could be deployed to a location that might
be more confrontational.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Berfield in  New York  at 
 sberfield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  