-- RBS Recoups 302 Million Pounds From Employees After Libor
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-02-28T09:38:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/rbs-recoups-302-million-pounds-from-employees-after-libor-fine.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
Britain’s biggest publicly owned lender, will recoup 302 million
pounds ($458 million) from bankers by cutting its bonus pool and
clawing back compensation following its fine for rigging Libor.  The bank, which today reported a wider full-year loss,
reduced bonuses by 110 million pounds and clawed back awards
from previous years valued at 112 million pounds, Edinburgh-
based RBS said in a statement. It will also cut long-term
incentives by 30 million pounds and future bonuses by a further
50 million pounds.  “The actions we have taken reinforce the messages we are
sending on the how seriously the board takes integrity and risk
and control issues,” the lender said. “The impact of such
issues on our shareholders and wider stakeholders extends beyond
those directly involved in Libor, so it is appropriate that
remuneration actions have a group-wide impact.”  RBS (RBS) , fined $612 million this month for manipulating
benchmark  interest rates , said on Feb. 6 it would pay for the
U.S. portion of the fine from bonuses and previously-awarded
pay. The pledge to recover the money from bankers’ bonuses was
criticized by British lawmakers because the bank didn’t disclose
the size of the bonus pool before the reduction.  The lender said it will reduce the amount it allocates for
investment bankers’ bonuses for 2012 to 215 million pounds from
about 360 million pounds for 2011. About half of RBS’s bonuses
for 2012 can be clawed back, Chairman  Philip Hampton  has said.  ‘Creative Accounting’  “We weren’t given sufficient confidence that the
arrangement for funding the fines from bonuses will do what it
says on the tin,”  Andrew Tyrie , Parliamentary Commission on
Banking Standards chairman, said on Feb 12. “This must be more
than an exercise in creative accounting. It would be all too
easy to artificially adjust a bonus pool, the size of which is
yet to be decided.”  More than a dozen RBS traders made hundreds of attempts to
manipulate yen and Swiss franc Libor between mid-2006 and 2010
to benefit their trading positions, sometimes colluding with
other firms, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission said.  RBS received the world’s biggest banking bailout in 2008,
and is 81 percent owned by the British taxpayer. Treasury
Minister Greg Clark described the lender’s fine as a “day of
shame” for British lenders.  Barclays Plc, Britain’s second-biggest bank by assets, will
reveal how many of its workers earn more than 1 million pounds
in its annual report next month, according to a person familiar
with the matter. RBS Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  said
today his bank will remain “at the forefront” of pay
transparency, pledging to match Barclays’s disclosure.  -- Editors: Edward Evans, Jon Menon  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net 
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  