-- RBS Loss Widened in 2012 on Swaps, PPI Redress Provisions
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-02-28T16:38:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/rbs-full-year-loss-widens-on-compensation-for-swaps-ppi-1-.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,
Britain’s biggest taxpayer-owned lender, posted a wider full-
year loss after it set aside an additional 1.1 billion pounds
($1.6 billion) to compensate clients wrongly sold insurance and
interest-rate hedging products .  The  net loss  swelled to 5.97 billion pounds from 2 billion
pounds in the year-earlier period, RBS said in a  statement 
today. Analysts had predicted a loss of 5.1 billion pounds,
according to the median estimate of nine  surveyed  by Bloomberg.
RBS also said it will sell a stake in its Citizens unit in the
U.S. and shrink its investment bank to boost capital.  The costs of redress for past missteps are hobbling Chief
Executive Officer Stephen Hester’s attempts to revive profit at
the lender, which received the biggest banking bailout in the
world in 2008. The government is pressing the Edinburgh-based
lender to sell more assets and bolster capital as it tries to
recoup some of its 45.5 billion-pound investment in the lender.  2012 was a “chastening year” as the bank worked to “put
right past mistakes,” Hester, 52, said in a statement. “We are
determined to overcome the cultural and reputational baggage of
pre-crisis times with the same focus we have applied to the
financial cleanup from that era.”  Fourth-quarter operating profit tumbled 45 percent to 581
million pounds, while full-year revenue dropped 6.9 percent to
25.9 billion pounds in 2012. RBS said it expects growth in the
U.K., its biggest market, to remain subdued.  Shares Drop  The shares fell 6.6 percent to 323.90 pence in London,
their steepest decline in eight months. The stock has dropped
0.2 percent this year, making RBS the U.K.’s worst-performing
bank stock. The government paid about 502 pence a share for its
81 percent stake.  “These results look pretty weak in terms of revenue, and
the outlook for the business doesn’t look great either” said
Shailesh Raikundlia, a London-based analyst at Espirito Santo
Investment Bank who rates RBS a sell. “Their very low capital
position is a big concern for us. All of these one-off hiccups
they keep reporting are killing their capital.”  The firm’s core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of
financial strength, rose to 10.3 percent at the end of December.
Under the stricter Basel III rules, the measure stood at 7.7
percent, less than the 8.5 percent minimum those regulations
will require. RBS will boost that ratio to closer to 9 percent
this year, Chief Financial Officer Bruce Van Saun said.  Branch Sale  Bank of England Governor Mervyn King said in November U.K.
banks may need to build up the capital they hold against
potential losses and asked the Financial Services Authority to
investigate and report back in March.  “We did reach an important accommodation in recent days
with the government, our majority shareholder, and the
regulators in relation to their well-publicized concerns across
the industry on capital,” Hester said. “The two revisions to
our strategy that go with that are a further shrinkage of our
markets business, with the capital there coming down
significantly further over the next couple of years” and the
intention to start selling Citizens, Hester added.  RBS will sell a 25 percent stake in Citizens Financial
Group Inc., the U.S. consumer and commercial lender it acquired
in 1988, in two years. The lender also plans to sell the 316
branches regulators are forcing it to offload through an initial
public offering, Hester said. RBS has approached the European
Commission about extending the 2014 deadline for the sale.  Dividend Payment  Hester, who took over from Fred Goodwin in 2008, has cut
assets by 907 billion pounds from their peak, eliminated more
than 36,000 jobs and scaled back the securities unit following
the bailout. The bank is trying to complete the “most
important” parts of its restructuring in 2013, he said.  It will be up to the government to decide when to start
selling its holding and when the bank can resume dividend
payments, he added. The bank would “ideally” start paying
dividends again at the earliest opportunity, he said.  The government hasn’t set a timetable for the disposal of
its stake in RBS, Jean-Christophe Gray, Prime Minister David Cameron’s spokesman, told reporters today in London.  Efforts to reduce the government’s stake are being hampered
by regulatory fines for manipulating Libor and provisions for
customer redress.  Net Loss  The firm set aside an additional 650 million pounds to
compensate clients wrongly sold  interest-rate swaps  to the 50
million-pound provision it made in August. It also earmarked 450
million pounds more to compensate clients who were forced to buy
insurance they didn’t require to cover loans repayments,
bringing the total cost of mis-selling payment-protection
insurance to more than 2 billion pounds.  Britain’s biggest banks have already put aside more than 12
billion pounds for customers who were improperly sold PPI.
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  will set aside an extra 1 billion
pounds for PPI and a further 200 million pounds for swaps when
it reports full-year earnings tomorrow, Deutsche Bank AG
analysts including Jason Napier wrote in a Feb. 20 note.  RBS’s net loss includes a 4.65 billion-pound accounting
loss on the fair value of its own debt. So-called credit
valuation adjustments require banks to book losses when the
value of their debt rises, and gains when it declines, on the
theory that a loss, or profit, would be realized were the bank
to repurchase that debt. Full-year operating profit rose to 3.46
billion pounds from 1.8 billion pounds.  ‘Flat Income’  Operating profit at the investment bank rose to 1.5 billion
pounds in 2012 from 900 million pounds. The unit posted an
operating profit of 139 million pounds in the fourth quarter
compared with a loss of 109 million pounds in the year-earlier
period. RBS said it plans to reduce assets allocated to the unit
by about 20 billion pounds, without providing further details.  “We have forecast flat income over the coming years which
may prove optimistic” given the reduction on risk-weighted
assets at the securities unit, Claire Kane, an analyst at RBC
Capital Market said in a note to clients today.  Hester has faced calls to shrink the securities unit after
RBS was forced to pay regulators a $612 million fine this month
for rigging benchmark interest rates such as Libor. Investment
banking chief John Hourican said he would step down following
the settlement, which showed that traders had routinely rigged
Libor to boost the profitability of their derivatives positions.  RBS will recoup about 302 million pounds from bankers by
cutting its bonus pool and clawing back compensation to meet the
381 million-pound cost of settling the Libor rigging-scandal.
The lender said it will reduce the amount it allocates for
investment bankers’ bonuses for 2012 to 215 million pounds from
about 360 million pounds for 2011.  “The banking industry has made quite a few missteps,”
Hester said on a conference call with reporters today. “We’re
hopeful that the biggest and most wrenching of past misconduct
can be largely recognized by the end of the year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  