-- Treasuries Beating Tax Exempts Longest Since May: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-02-28T01:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/treasuries-beating-tax-exempts-longest-since-may-muni-credit.html
U.S. municipal bonds are poised to
trail Treasuries for the longest stretch since May as localities
plan the biggest wave of borrowing this year while facing
federal spending cuts set to begin tomorrow.  March is  historically  one of the weakest months for the
$3.7 trillion municipal market as investors sell to make April
15 tax payments while the pace of offerings typically rises.
California and  Maryland  are among states and cities that have
already scheduled a combined  $13.3 billion  of issues in the next
month, the most since November, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Treasuries may also gain more than munis as investors
prepare for $85 billion of reduced U.S. government spending
scheduled to occur in the remaining seven months of the fiscal
year, said Gary Pollack, head of fixed-income trading at
Deutsche Bank AG’s private-wealth unit in New York. Any signs of
diminished economic growth from the cuts would give federal debt
an outsize boost, he said. At the same time, localities relying
on military spending could be hurt.  “Treasuries would probably benefit more,” said Pollack,
who manages $12 billion. “Munis may follow Treasuries, but may
lag. Those communities where there’s a large federal presence
will certainly lag.”  February Defeat  Tax-exempt obligations have earned 0.3 percent this month
through Feb. 26, compared with 0.6 percent for Treasuries, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch data show. If history is any guide,
federal bonds are set to beat munis again in March. Yields on
10-year Treasuries have risen 1 percent on average in March
since 2009, while muni yields jumped 7.4 percent,  data  compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Munis haven’t lost to Treasuries for two consecutive months
since May, Bank of America data show.  While states and cities tend to increase borrowing in
March, investors often sell munis or buy less as they prepare
tax payments, said Ebby Gerry, who helps oversee $15 billion of
munis at UBS Global Asset Management in New York.  Debt-holders are also getting less in principal and
interest payments from tax-exempt debt to reinvest, according to
Pollack. Investors will receive about $18 billion of redemption
payments from tax-free securities in March, compared with a
projected $30 billion of muni issuance, according to an RBC
Capital Markets report dated Dec. 5.  California Leads  “It’s a month with one of the lowest redemption and coupon
payment dates, and at the same time supply picks up as we get
into warmer weather and it’s better for construction,” Pollack
said.  California , which received its first credit rating boost
since 2006 from  Standard & Poor’s  last month, leads the issuance
slate with $2.7 billion of general obligations set for sale the
week of March 11, according to the state treasurer’s website.
Maryland, with a negative outlook from Moody’s Investors Service
because of its link to federal spending, plans to sell $693
million next week.  Munis are already approaching levels that lured buyers in
past months.  Benchmark 10-year munis yielded 1.89 percent yesterday,
close to the highest since August, according to Bloomberg
Valuation data. Treasuries of the same maturity yielded about
1.9 percent after gaining this week amid a flight to safety from
 Europe ’s debt crisis.  Value Gauge  The ratio of the two yields, which investors use to gauge
relative value, was about  100 percent  yesterday, Bloomberg data
show. When the figure reached a similar level in December, munis
rallied versus Treasuries. The ratio has averaged about 93
percent since 2001. Munis tend to have lower yields than federal
bonds because interest on state and local debt is exempt from
taxation.  “You’re getting awfully close to munis being attractive
relative to Treasuries,” Gerry said.  The reaction of fixed-income assets to federal spending
cuts, known as sequestration, may guide investors’ assessment of
relative value in coming weeks.  The reductions would total $1.2 trillion over nine years.
They would be divided almost evenly between defense and non-
 defense spending . The plan was part of a 2011 deal to raise the
U.S. debt ceiling.  Reduced military spending would affect areas dependent on
such federal funds, and yields on debt of lower-rated states and
cities may increase as a result, Gerry said.  Defense procurement accounts for at least 9 percent of the
gross domestic product in Maryland,  New Mexico  and  Virginia ,
according to Moody’s Investors Service. The three states have
top ratings and negative outlooks from Moody’s because of their
ties to federal spending.  “You can have credit impact with sequestration,” Gerry
said. “You have to watch it from a credit perspective.”  Following is a pending sale:  TEXAS’S LOWER COLORADO RIVER AUTHORITY plans to issue $308
million of revenue bonds as soon as March 5 through competitive
bid, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Proceeds will refund debt,
according to bond documents. (Added Feb. 28)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  