-- Treasury Wine Readies China Gifts Modeled on $168,000 Ampul
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-03-01T07:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/treasury-wine-targets-china-with-gifts-modeled-on-168-000-ampul.html
Treasury Wine Estates Ltd. (TWE) ,
 Australia ’s largest winemaker, plans to boost Chinese gift sales
with trophy products similar to its $168,000 bottle of 2004
Penfolds Cabernet Sauvignon released last year.  The Cabernet, contained in a glass ampul mounted inside a
wooden cabinet, is “the sort of gifting that we really want to
go out there” in Asia, David Dearie, chief executive officer,
said in an interview yesterday. Treasury rose to a record today
in Sydney trading.  The company spent several hundred thousand dollars last
year researching China’s wine-buyers, said Dearie. Treasury is
using its findings to tailor products to Chinese consumers after
success targeting Hispanic drinkers with Beringer’s Los Hermanos
label in the U.S., he said.  Treasury expects a “very big second half” from March and
May releases of its Penfolds brand.  The winemaker  gained  4 percent to A$5.51 as of the close of
trading in Sydney, the highest since the company was spun out of
Foster’s Group Ltd. in May 2011. The S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 0.4
percent.  The company yesterday reported first-half profit of A$52
million ($53 million), beating analyst estimates.  Treasury is developing alternative packaging for wine given
as gifts in China and using marketing developed for Asia, where
profit margin was double that in other regions in the six months
ended Dec. 31, Dearie said.  Asian sales had a 30 percent margin on earnings before
interest, tax, and adjustments for the value of vineyards, the
Melbourne-based winemaker said yesterday.  “There’s so much rich pickings in wine if we just get
creative,” Dearie said by phone. “We’ve been a little bit lazy
as an industry.”  Extravagant Spending  A crackdown on extravagant spending by officials as part of
incoming President Xi Jinping’s austerity drive in  China  wasn’t
slowing sales into the country, Dearie told an investor call
yesterday.  Treasury was inspired by the success of the Los Hermanos
range, marketed by its U.S. label Beringer to Hispanic
consumers, and the limited-edition $168,000 bottle, Dearie said.  Sales volumes to China and Hong Kong rose 24 percent in the
first half, and the company expects total market demand to
increase from between 120 million and 130 million nine-liter
cases at present to 250 million to 500 million in five years,
Dearie said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  