-- Rebar Pares Monthly Drop on Australian Iron Ore Supply Concern
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-28T03:45:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/rebar-pares-monthly-drop-on-australian-iron-ore-supply-concern.html
Steel reinforcement-bar futures
gained for a second day, paring a monthly decline, amid concern
that supply of iron ore from  Australia , the biggest shipper,
could be disrupted due to a cyclone.  Rebar for delivery in October rose as much as 1.1 percent
to 4,028  yuan  ($648) a metric ton on the Shanghai Futures
Exchange and was at 4,017 yuan at 11:30 a.m. local time. The
most-active contract has retreated 2.7 percent this month, the
biggest drop since November.  Global steel prices may jump 20 percent as Tropical Cyclone
Rusty made landfall in Australia, the Englewood, Colorado-based
IHS Inc. said yesterday in an e-mailed report. Iron ore in
Australia was quoted at $191 a ton on Feb. 19, and “in an
extreme scenario wherein Rusty causes major damage to
Australia’s mines and seaports, pricing could increase” to $230
a ton in April, according to IHS.  “Investors are worried that cyclone Rusty will reduce  iron
ore  supplies from Australia,” Zheng Ge, an analyst at Wanda
Futures Co., said in a report today.  Australia’s  Port Hedland , home to the world’s biggest bulk
export terminal, escaped with only minor damage from a weakening
tropical Cyclone Rusty that’s now moving inland into the Pilbara
iron ore mining region.  Iron ore  has surged 75 percent from a near three-year low
in September as  China ’s growth rebounded from a seven-quarter
slowdown. Iron ore for immediate delivery was unchanged at
$151.90 a ton yesterday, trading near 16-month high, according
to data compiled by The Steel Index Ltd.  The average spot  price  for rebar fell 0.3 percent to 3,811
yuan a ton yesterday, according to data from Beijing Antaike
Information Development Co.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brett Miller  at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  