-- Record Bond Sales Showing Lessons of 1997 Learned: Asean Credit
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2013-03-01T04:04:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/record-bond-sales-showing-lessons-of-1997-learned-asean-credit.html
Southeast Asian companies are on
track for an eighth straight year of record bond sales as local
investors provide protection from a repeat of 1997, when the
region’s currencies collapsed and global banks fled.  Bond sales will rise as much as 20 percent from last year’s
$101 billion of local and dollar-denominated notes, according to
 CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB) , the top underwriter of domestic debt
in the 10-member  Association of Southeast Asian Nations , or
Asean. DBS Group Holdings Ltd. and Maybank Kim Eng Holdings Ltd.
see a repeat of last year’s 48 percent gain.  PTT Global Chemical
Pcl (PTTGC)  of  Thailand ’s and PT Bank Rakyat  Indonesia , the nation’s
third-biggest lender, are lining up to sell debt.  “ Asia  can finance Asia now,” Clifford Lee, head of fixed
income at DBS, the second-largest underwriter, said in a Feb. 21
interview from  Singapore . “This trend has been picking up for a
couple of years, but it became more obvious since last year.”  The combination of higher yields, faster economic growth,
and an expanding pool of wealthy investors is proving
irresistible to the world’s biggest fund managers. New bond
issues increased five-fold since 2000 as Asean governments
transformed markets since the crisis 15 years ago, when tumbling
currencies froze credit, forcing Thailand, Indonesia and  South
Korea  to borrow more than $110 billion from the  International
Monetary Fund .  Relative Value  Corporate dollar bonds yield at least one percentage point
 more  than Treasuries and local-currency sovereign debt yields
are on average three points higher, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Indonesia’s 10-year rupiah government bonds have
fallen to  3.49 percentage points  more than similar-maturity U.S.
Treasuries from last year’s high of 5.05 points on June 1, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The International Monetary Fund says the region’s five
biggest economies will expand nine times faster than  Germany  in
2013, growing 5.5 percent, compared with 0.6 percent for
Europe’s biggest economy and 2 percent for the U.S.  There were 3.37 million millionaires in the Asia-Pacific
region in 2011, more than in North America for the first time,
according to a June report by Capgemini SA and RBC Wealth
Management.  Nomura Holdings Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. have set up
new debt capital markets units to focus on  Southeast Asia  in the
past five months. The Philippine peso and  Thai baht  are among
the top five holdings in the Asia-Pacific Sovereign Open plan at
Kokusai Asset Management Co., the manager of Japan’s largest
mutual fund. The Sovereign Open fund returned 8.7 percent this
year, beating 96 percent of its peers, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Fund Flows  “Bonds in Southeast Asia, where economic growth and
currency outlooks are both solid, have been chosen by investors,
luring a good amount of inflows into the region,” Takahide Irimura, head of emerging-market research in Tokyo at Kokusai,
which manages the equivalent of $37 billion, said in a Feb. 26
interview.  Southeast Asia needs $1 trillion of investment in
 infrastructure  such as railways and ports this decade and will
increasingly seek financing in the region, according to the
 Asian Development Bank . Singapore’s Keppel Corp., the world’s
largest oil rig maker, is considering a Chinese  yuan  bond.  Expanding economies are reducing bond risk in the region.
The cost of insuring Philippine sovereign debt using five-year
credit-default swaps fell 59 basis points in the past year to 99,
while Thailand’s dropped 64 basis points to 88, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market. For Malaysia, the rate declined 42 basis points to 76
and Indonesia’s slid 32 basis points to 138.  Sales Guide  Sales may increase in part because Asean, together with
China, Japan and Korea, want to allow corporate bond issuers to
use standardized regionwide documents to cut transaction costs
next year, Seung Jae Lee, an adviser to the ADB, said in a Feb.
21 interview.  In 2012, the regional group published a 1,500-page  guide  to
markets including Indonesia, Malaysia, the  Philippines , Thailand,
Singapore,  Laos  and Vietnam. The Credit Guarantee & Investment
Facility, set up by Asean along with the three North Asian
economies last May, will assure repayment on its first corporate
offering in the coming months, Chief Executive Office Kiyoshi
Nishimura, said in a Feb. 21 interview from  Manila .  Local Currency  The total value of outstanding government and corporate
bonds in the region rose to $1.1 trillion last year from $218
billion in 2000, according to the ADB. Local investors hold 88
percent of domestic government notes in the Philippines, 85
percent in Thailand and 73 percent in Malaysia, its data show.
The proportion held by investors from other Asian countries rose
to 9.4 percent in 2011 from 4.2 percent in 2001, the figures
show.  “One thing that Asia learned from the 1997-1998 financial
crisis is that reliance on foreign-currency funding is toxic,”
Lee Kok Kwan, deputy chief executive officer at CIMB, said in a
Feb. 25 interview from  Kuala Lumpur . “There is actually very
little need for reliance on foreign-currency funding when the
savings rate in this part of the world is so high.”  Gross national savings were 49 percent of gross domestic
product in Singapore and 39 percent in Malaysia in 2011,
according to a World Bank report. That compares with 11 percent
in the U.S. and 23 percent in Germany. Most Asean nations run
current-account surpluses, lifting regional foreign-exchange
reserves to more than $770 billion, official data show.  Borrowing Costs  Southeast Asian corporate bond sales have amounted to $12.1
billion so far this year, compared with $16.4 billion a year
earlier. Growth won’t match 2012’s pace as rising borrowing
costs deter companies, according to CIMB.  “We expect some growth but the market is coming out of a
very strong year, so growth won’t be anywhere close to last
year’s number,” said CIMB’s Lee.  The rate on Indonesia’s 10-year bonds may reach 5.70
percent by year-end as inflation gathers pace, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey. It climbed nine basis
points this week to 5.37 percent. The yield on Malaysia’s
similar-maturity debt will gain 23 basis points to 3.7 percent,
according to a separate survey.  Those yields are also attracting global investors,
prompting analysts to forecast currency gains. Malaysia’s
ringgit and the Philippine peso will each advance 3.1 percent by
the end of the year, and the  Singapore dollar  2.2 percent,
according to Bloomberg surveys. That puts them among the top 10
in  emerging markets  worldwide.  “As Asia is poised to lead global growth, we expect more
regional investors to emerge and demand from them will increase
over time,” Tengku Zafrul Tengku Abdul Aziz, chief executive at
Maybank Kim Eng Holdings Ltd., said in a Feb. 27 e-mail from
Kuala Lumpur. “Only a serious global risk-off event can cause a
serious outflow of funds from this region and we don’t expect
that to happen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  