-- Reed Elsevier Plans $455 Million Buyback as Disposals Continue
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-02-28T09:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/reed-elsevier-plans-455-million-buyback-as-disposals-continue.html
Reed Elsevier Plc (REL) , the owner of the
LexisNexis legal database, is continuing to sell units that
don’t fit its growth strategy and is planning share buybacks to
counter earnings dilution from such sales.  The Anglo-Dutch publisher said today it will spend a
further 300 million pounds ($455 million) on buybacks this year
in addition to 100 million pounds spent since the end of 2012.
The value of planned disposals over the next 12 months may be
roughly equal to the value of share buybacks in the period,
Chief Executive Officer Erik Engstrom said in a phone interview.  “We’ve been disposing of significant print assets and
we’re looking to transform the print business organically and
migrate print assets to electronic solutions,” Engstrom said.  The company has been selling trade magazines and other
businesses to focus on electronic data services and research
offerings. London-based Reed Elsevier said today it expects to
post growth in underlying revenue, profit and earnings in 2013,
even as the market remains “mixed.”  The shares rose as much as 3 percent and were up 2.3
percent at 715 pence as of 9:09 a.m. in  London .  “Reed is a top blue-chip play, benefitting from portfolio
refocus on growth,” Steve Liechti, an analyst at Investec
Securities, said in a note today. “Positive momentum should be
sustained,” said Liechti, who recommends buying the stock.  Exhibitions Business  Operating profit in 2012, adjusted to exclude the effects
of acquisitions, disposals and one-time occurrences, climbed to
1.71 billion pounds from 1.63 billion pounds, Reed Elsevier said
today. Revenue rose 1.9 percent to 6.11 billion pounds, compared
with the average analyst estimate of 6.17 billion pounds,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Engstrom said Reed Elsevier will continue to acquire
smaller assets, which may include adding new events to its
exhibitions business.  “We’re not looking at anything big,” he said. “Over the
past three years’ average our total acquisition spend has been
300 million pounds a year.”  Last year, the company carried out 250 million pounds of
share buybacks.  Reed Elsevier agreed last month to sell the screening
division of its LexisNexis risk solutions business to Symphony
Technology Group. The company also sold its Australian media
business in January to private equity firm Catalyst Investment
Managers Pty. In October, Reed sold entertainment trade magazine
Variety to Internet entrepreneur Jay Penske.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 