-- Repsol Fourth-Quarter Net Doubles on Libya, Refining Margins
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a
-- 2013-02-28T15:16:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/repsol-fourth-quarter-net-doubles-on-libya-refining-margins-1-.html
Repsol SA (REP) , the Spanish oil producer
stripped of its Argentine unit last year, said adjusted fourth-
quarter profit more than doubled  as Spanish refining margins
jumped and production recovered in North Africa.  Profit without one-time items and inventory fluctuations
climbed to 517 million euros ($679 million) from 241 million
euros a year earlier, the Madrid-based company said today in a
 statement . That beat the 457 million-euro average of 19 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Repsol’s refining margin in
Spain leaped to $6.30 a barrel from 80 U.S. cents.  Chairman Antonio Brufau last year said the company would
boost international production as part of a reshaping plan that
included a $4.5 billion-euro divestment target to reduce debt
after  Argentina  seized its YPF unit that held almost half of
Repsol’s reserves. The company this week sold assets and said it
had already exceeded that divestment target.  “Its exploration and production rates are among the best
in their sector, but you are comparing with a very, very weak
fourth quarter in 2011,” Nuria Alvarez, an analyst at Renta 4
Brokerage in  Madrid , Corp  said before results were announced.
“This time around it has very high margins in refining and
marketing.”  Adjusted operating income doubled as operations resumed in
Libya and  Bolivia ’s Margarita field came into operation, the
company said. Repsol reported a reserve replacement ratio of a
record 204 percent for 2012, indicating it found more than twice
the oil and gas than it produced in the year.  Production for full-year 2012 rose 11 percent to about
332,000 barrels of oil per day thanks to discoveries like Pao de
Açucar in Brazil, it said.  Drilling Program  The company plans to drill as many as 40 firm wells this
year, according to a presentation to investors in January.
Repsol’s is “the best exploration portfolio of the integrated
oil and gas companies relative to its size,” Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. analysts said in report e-mailed today.  First production from its  Brazil ’s Sapinhoa field, one of
the largest developed in that country, will help achieve its 10
percent growth target this year along with other project
startups, the report said.  Repsol  shares  gained 0.4 percent in Madrid trading to 16.15
euros as of 3:39 p.m. local time in Madrid. The stock has
dropped 17 percent in the past year, the fourth-worst performer
of the 13-member Euro Stoxx Oil & Gas Index.  $4.4 Billion Sale  Repsol reduced its net debt by about a half after it agreed
to sell $4.4 billion of liquefied natural gas assets to  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  in a deal announced on Feb. 26 as part of its
divestment plan. Efforts to sell the LNG business had extended
over seven months due to hurdles such as finding a buyer for an
underutilized LNG import hub in  Canada . The Canaport terminal
was left out of the Shell deal and written down for $1.3
billion.  Canaport is “a business that creates more problems than
opportunities,” CEO Antonio Brufau said today in a conference
call with analysts. After the writedown “we have left very few
room for mistakes,” and the company will evaluate strategic
alternatives for this asset, Brufau said.  While Repsol may have exceeded its divestment targets, it
may have to consider selling 5 percent of treasury shares or
converting 3 billion euros of preference shares to improve its
debt position if proceeds from the sale are not “fully
utilized” to pay down debt, according to a Feb. 27 Fitch
report. Repsol said it plans to use sale proceeds to boost its
upstream organic growth strategy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Laya in Madrid at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  