-- Riksbank Set to Keep Rate Steady in April, Wickman-Parak Says
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-02-28T14:50:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/riksbank-set-to-keep-rate-steady-in-april-wickman-parak-says.html
Sweden ’s central bank will probably
keep its main lending rate unchanged at its April meeting,
Riksbank Deputy Governor Barbro Wickman-Parak said.  “The biggest likelihood is that we don’t do anything,”
she told reporters today in Linkoeping, Sweden. “If we do
something, the likelihood is bigger for a cut than an
increase.”  Sweden’s central bank earlier this month kept its  benchmark
interest rat e unchanged at 1 percent after cutting it four times
since December 2011 to boost growth in the export-reliant
economy hit by weak demand from debt-ridden  Europe . Policy
makers, who have signaled unchanged rates until 2014, will next
publish their rate decision on April 17.  Economic data have come in “roughly” in line with the
Riksbank’s latest forecasts, Wickman-Parak said.  Swedish exports, which account for about half of the
country’s output, have been hurt by a strengthening currency.
The krona gained 1.7 percent against the euro this year to trade
at to 8.4395, making it the second-best performing major
currency tracked by Bloomberg after the Brazilian Real.  A reasonably valued krona is “where it is right now,
perhaps around there,” Wickman-Parak said, citing the economy’s
“strong fundamentals.”  She also responded to criticism today from Stockholm
University Professor Lars Calmfors who urged the Riksbank to
consider scrapping its 2 percent inflation target and instead to
introduce a price level target to increase its ability to boost
growth. He also said the Riksbank should be given complementary
targets for growth, employment and unemployment.  “I don’t think that’s so good,” Wickman-Parak said.
“There’s always a cost to change something and if we’ve
invested in something that we think is working then it’s not an
insignificant cost associated with changing it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  