-- Ringgit Climbs to Two-Week High as Data Boost Export Outlook
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2013-02-28T08:20:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/ringgit-climbs-to-two-week-high-as-data-boosts-export-outlook.html
Malaysia’s ringgit advanced to a
two-week high after data suggested the U.S. economic recovery is
gaining ground, brightening the outlook for the Southeast Asian
nation’s exports. Government bonds were unchanged.  Orders for U.S. durable goods excluding transportation
equipment climbed in January by the most in a year, while
pending sales of existing homes jumped more than economists had
estimated, separate reports showed yesterday. The world’s
largest economy was the third biggest buyer of Malaysian goods
in December. Malaysia is said to be planning rules to tighten
the onshore dollar-ringgit fixing, according to a draft
statement from the Financial Markets Association of Malaysia.  “The U.S. data was positive,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a
currency strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in  Singapore . “The
fixing rules are probably designed to give more confidence and I
don’t think it’s going to have a huge impact on market sentiment
either way.”  The ringgit gained 0.3 percent to 3.0910 per dollar as of
4:06 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency touched 3.0875, the strongest since Feb.
15. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in
exchange rates used to price options, rose 13 basis points, or
0.13 percentage point, to 7.23 percent, the data show.  Under the proposed rules to take effect tomorrow, the cap
on the bid and ask spread for the dollar-ringgit fixing will be
lowered to 10 pips from 20, according to the statement from the
association obtained by Bloomberg. A pip is the smallest unit of
a currency’s price, which in U.S. dollar terms equals one-
hundredth of a cent.  The yield on the 3.314 percent sovereign notes due October
2017 was unchanged at to 3.22 percent, according to Bursa
 Malaysia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 