-- Rio Names Chris Lynch as CFO to Replace Elliott
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-02-28T06:48:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/rio-names-director-chris-lynch-as-cfo-to-replace-guy-elliott.html
Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s second-
biggest mining company, named Christopher Lynch, a former  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  executive, as chief financial officer to replace
Guy Elliott who announced his retirement in July.  Lynch, 59, was CFO at BHP for six years, London-based Rio
said today in a statement. He left in 2007 after missing out to
colleague Marius Kloppers for the job of chief executive officer
of the Melbourne-based company. Elliott, 57, has served for more
than a decade as CFO.  “During his time at BHP, I always liked him as CFO because
he was on top of the numbers,” Paul McTaggart, a Sydney-based
resources analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, said by phone. “He
was a straight talker and a good risk manager.”  After leaving BHP, Lynch became CEO of Australian toll road
company  Transurban Group (TCL) , rejecting a A$7.2 billion ($7.4
billion) takeover bid from the company’s three biggest
shareholders in 2010. He left Transurban in July.  “Chris Lynch is an extremely high-caliber addition to our
executive team,” CEO Sam Walsh said in the statement. Lynch, a
non-executive director of Rio, has “a strong pedigree of board,
mining and financial experience,” he said.  Rio gained 1.6 percent to A$67.05 at the close of trading
in Sydney. The benchmark index rose 1.3 percent.  “This is a wonderful opportunity for me to join Sam’s
leadership team and work with him in refocusing the business on
pursuing greater shareholder value,” Lynch said in the
statement. “I am really looking forward to getting stuck into
the challenge and ensuring we deliver on our promises to improve
this great business.”  Risk Manager  Rio this month announced its first-ever annual loss after
taking a $14 billion writedown on the value of its aluminum and
coal assets. The asset impairments cost CEO Tom Albanese his job,
as well as head of strategy Doug Ritchie.  Rio will also cut its executive committee by two positions
to nine, according to the statement. The company won’t fill the
strategy role and will restructure Bret Clayton’s role of group
executive, business support and operations, it said. Clayton
will stay with Rio and continue to oversee the divestment of the
Pacific Aluminium unit.  Debt Ballooned  Elliott was part of the team that executed the $38 billion
cash takeover of aluminum maker Alcan Inc. in 2007, which soured
when metal prices plunged during the global financial crisis.
The deal forced Rio into asset sales and a capital raising after
 debt  ballooned to $40 billion.  Last year, Elliott and Albanese waived their annual bonuses
following a $8.9 billion after writing down the value of its
aluminum unit. During Elliott’s tenure, Rio’s net  income  rose
almost ninefold to $5.8 billion until 2011 as commodity prices
rose.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  