-- Rising Student-Loan Delinquencies Hurt Young Homebuyers
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2013-02-28T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/rising-student-loan-delinquencies-hurt-young-homebuyers.html
More people borrowing for education
are failing to pay off their loans.  Almost a third of student-loan borrowers in repayment were
delinquent at the end of last year, up from about a quarter in
2008 and 20 percent in 2004, according to a report on household
debt and credit today by the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York .  The amount of educational debt, which includes federally
backed and private loans taken out by students and parents, has
almost tripled in the past eight years to $966 billion, the bank
said. With costs to attend college continuing to outpace the
inflation rate, more borrowers are struggling to pay. That makes
it harder for people -- especially those between 25 and 30 -- to
secure other types of credit, including home mortgages.  “Student loan debt is the only kind of household debt that
continued to rise during the Great Recession and has now the
second-largest balance after mortgage debt,” wrote  Donghoon
Lee,  an economist at the New York Fed. “With delinquent student
debt, mortgage origination is very difficult. The mortgage
origination gap across the size of student debt has declined
between 2005 and 2012.”  The New York Fed report is based on a sample of data
provided by the  Equifax Inc. (EFX)  credit bureau, and examines
borrowers’ current debt. It doesn’t measure how much was taken
out at origination.  About 44 percent of student loan borrowers aren’t repaying
their loans, because of deferments, forbearances or they are
still in school.  Younger Borrowers  Delinquency rates in 2012 were highest among borrowers
under the age of 30 who are repaying their loans. Thirty-five
percent were 90 or more days behind, compared with 21 percent in
2004.  The Fed also reports on the share of all borrowers who are
delinquent for 90 days or more, including those in deferral,
forbearance or still in school. That rate is 16 percent for
those under 30, up from almost 8 percent in 2004.  As more people attend college, the average educational loan
balance, as well as the numbers of borrowers and delinquencies
are increasing. The number of student-loan borrowers was almost
39 million in 2012, up 70 percent from about 23 million in 2004.
The average balance in 2012 per borrower was $24,700 compared
with $15,308 eight years earlier.  Total student-loan debt in the fourth quarter was $966
billion, up $10 billion from the previous quarter, according to
the New York Fed. The federal Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau put the number at $1 trillion last year.  ‘Stay Afloat’  Ryann Roberts, 22, is one of those borrowers and has seen
friends struggle with their debt as a large share of monthly
expenses.  She is deferring on more than $37,000 in loans for an
undergraduate degree in health policy at Carnegie Mellon
University in Pittsburgh and for the first year of a two-year
master’s in public health at George Washington University. She
has kept her graduate costs low by working full-time as an
administrator at the university’s medical school, which waives
some tuition for employees.  “I’m worried about graduating and making enough money to
pay the loan back and stay afloat,” Roberts said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in New York 
 jlorin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net . 