-- Risk Council Led by Lew Hears SEC Update on Money Fund Rules
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-02-28T22:34:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/risk-council-led-by-lew-hears-sec-update-on-money-fund-rules.html
The Financial Stability Oversight
Council, led by new  Treasury Secretary  Jacob J. Lew, met today
in Washington and heard an update from the Securities and
Exchange Commission on possible changes to rules governing
money-market mutual funds.  Lew, who was sworn into office at the White House earlier
today, also presided over a discussion on non-bank financial
companies, which could be designated systemically important and
subject to Federal Reserve oversight, Treasury spokeswoman
Suzanne Elio said in a statement.  The council, created by the Dodd-Frank law to prevent
another financial crisis, “has made significant progress to
promote market stability by taking actions to issue rules,
identify risks and increase oversight,” Lew said at the
meeting.  As Treasury secretary, Lew heads the council, which also
includes the chairmen of the Fed, SEC and Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. The panel, known as FSOC, missed former Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner ’s target of designating some non-
bank financial companies as systemically important by the end of
2012.  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , Prudential Financial
Inc. and General Electric Co.’s finance unit have been under
review to be designated. Companies branded systemically
important are considered a potential risk to the financial
system and will be subject to Fed supervision.  Draft Rules  SEC staff members are preparing a draft of proposed new
rules for the $2.7 trillion money-market fund industry. The
agency is being pressed to revisit the issue by the oversight
council six months after a majority of commissioners rejected a
reform plan backed by former SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro . Three
commissioners said in August they wanted to see more study on
the impact of rules changes introduced in 2010.  Regulators have been working to tighten oversight of money
funds since the September 2008 collapse of the $62.5 billion
Reserve Primary Fund. Its failure, because it owned debt issued
by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., set off a wider run by money-
fund investors that helped freeze global credit markets.  The largest money-fund providers, including Boston-based
Fidelity Investments and Pittsburgh’s Federated Investors Inc.,
have resisted additional regulation, saying Schapiro’s plan and
rules recommended by the FSOC in November would destroy the
appeal of money funds to investors and deny companies and
municipal borrowers a critical supply of short-term funding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  