-- Rock Star Confronts Armenian Leader as Rally Marks Deaths
-- B y   S a r a   K h o j o y a n
-- 2013-03-01T12:29:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/rock-star-confronts-armenia-leader-on-vote-as-rally-marks-deaths.html
As Armenians mark the deaths that
tarnished President Serzh Sargsyan’s 2008 rise, anger at his re-
election has stirred diaspora in the world of U.S. heavy metal.  Serj Tankian, lead singer of Grammy award-winning Armenian-
American rock band  System of a Down , has written to Sargsyan
saying “it’s time for change” after non-government
organizations reported widespread voting fraud. The president,
who beat his nearest rival by more than 20 percentage points at
last month’s ballot, says he’s comfortable with his victory.  Thousands of Armenians have followed runner-up Raffi
Hovhannisyan’s call to challenge the official election results
as opposition groups seek to gain traction against Sargsyan’s
rule. Ten people died after the president’s success five years
ago triggered clashes between protesters and police on March 1,
2008. Hovhannisyan laid flowers at the scene today.  “The day isn’t only about the current wave of discontent
and new-found civic activism behind opposition leader Raffi
Hovhannisyan,” Richard Giragosian, director of the Regional
Studies Center in the capital, Yerevan, said Feb 27 by phone.
“The larger challenge for the government is to regain trust,
and clearly the opposition now holds the upper hand in terms of
momentum and initiative.”  Armenia ’s currency, the dram, has lost 1.4 percent against
the dollar in 2013, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It’s fallen
0.8 percent since the Feb. 18 elections, compared with no change
for the lari or manat in neighboring Georgia and Azerbaijan.  ‘Falsified Elections’  Sargsyan won 59 percent of the vote to Hovhannisyan’s 37
percent, according to official results that Tankian called
flawed in an open letter to the president published this week by
local media.  While Sargsyan wrote back asking for Tankian’s help to
fight “impudence and hostility” in Armenia, the response
didn’t satisfy the 45-year-old  singer , who demanded the
president listen to the complaints of the country’s citizens.  “Corruption, injustice, emigration, lawlessness and
falsified elections” are prompting Armenians to emigrate,
Tankian wrote. “Citizens across Armenia are protesting the
outcome of the elections and the injustice inherent in the
political establishment.”  The South Caucasus country, whose exports include zinc,
copper and semi-precious stones, relies on its far-flung
diaspora to support the economy, with remittances accounting for
about 20 percent of its economic output, according to
Commerzbank AG.  Kim Kardashian   Aside from Tankian and his band, which won a Grammy award
in 2006, other famous members of Armenia’s overseas community
include U.S. celebrity Kim Kardashian, singer and actress Cher,
tennis player Andre Agassi and Tracinda Corp.’s Kirk Kerkorian.  After plunging 14 percent in 2009 following Lehman Brothers
Holding Inc.’s collapse, gross domestic product will advance 4.3
percent this year, the World Bank predicts. More than a third of
the landlocked nation’s 3 million people live in poverty, while
unemployment was 5.9 percent at end-2012, official data show.  February’s election was dominated by the attempted
assassination of one candidate, a hunger strike by another and
the decision of three hopefuls including businessman Gagik
Tsarukyan not to stand at all.  Local observers and NGOs registered more than 400
violations during the elections, with infringements including
ballot stuffing and attempts to vote more than once.  ‘Steal’ Victory  The vote “demonstrated improvements over previous
presidential elections but the limited field of candidates meant
the elections weren’t genuinely competitive,” according to
Tonino Picula, head of the Organization for Security and
Cooperation in  Europe ’s observer mission.  Hovhannisyan, a former foreign minister, has sought to tap
into concern at the vote’s validity, touring the country to
mobilize support.  “I won’t allow anybody to steal your victory from you,”
Hovhannisyan told to more than 1,000 people in the southern city
of Kapan Feb. 27.  Addressing a crowd 10 times that size in
Yerevan’s Liberty Square yesterday, he said there’s “no way
back” and pledged to bring victory.  While today’s protest is being held in Myasnikyan Square in
Yerevan, where the deaths occurred in 2008, Hovhannisyan “is
reasonable enough to avoid confrontation and act within the
law,” according to Hovik Abrahamyan, head of Armenia’s
parliament. Sargsyan’s party won 68 of the legislature’s 131
seats at elections last May.  Pressure Tools  “Violence won’t honor our state and political parties,”
Abrahamyan told the National Assembly on Feb. 27. The government
won’t contravene the law in dealing with the protest, he said.  For the time being, the demonstrators’ aim is to keep
filling the square, according to Tatul Hakobyan, political
expert at Civilitas Foundation in Yerevan.  “The levers of power -- the security service, the army and
the police -- are in Sargsyan’s hands and, if necessary,
pressure can be exerted,” he said yesterday by phone. “Maybe
there won’t be dangerous developments in the coming days but if
Hovhannisyan succeeds in bringing thousands of people to the
square, which is his goal, the authorities will apply harsh
methods.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Khojoyan in Yerevan at 
 skhojoyan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  