-- Romania to Scale Back Clean-Energy Aid to Curb Power-Price Gains
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-02-28T11:04:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/romania-to-scale-back-clean-energy-aid-to-curb-power-price-gains.html
Romania will scale back renewable-
power subsidies to limit electricity-price increases for
consumers, according to the minister-delegate for energy.  The eastern European country plans to make changes to its
incentive program in July or at the beginning of next year,
Constantin Nita said today in an interview in Bucharest. It
intends to cut the maximum value of so-called green certificates
granted for clean-energy generation, he said.  The plan to rein in support for renewables follows similar
moves in  Spain , France, Italy and the U.K., where debt-strapped
governments have reduced aid to avoid overcompensating companies
and to curb power-price increases for households and businesses.  Romania, which offers two green certificates for each
megawatt-hour generated from wind, may cut the number to one or
1.5, and for solar to 3.5 from six,  Ziarul Financiar  reported,
citing an unpublished draft law. Their maximum value may drop to
30 euros ($39) from 55 euros, the newspaper said.  “We haven’t made a decision yet but we will make one, and
we will change the law because we can’t destroy our local
industry, which generates thousands of jobs,” Nita said at a
seminar. The certificates’ minimum value will remain unchanged
at 27 euros, he said.  Romania  has raised electricity prices 10 percent this year,
with clean-energy subsidies accounting for about 4 percent of
the increase, according to Nita. The total cost of renewables to
consumers this year -- about 500 million euros -- is a “price
too big for Romanians,” he said.  Current Capacity  Romania has about 1,600 megawatts of installed wind
capacity and about 70 megawatts of solar, according to data from
the regulator. It has attracted investments from  CEZ AS (CEZ) ,  EON SE (EOAN) ,
 Energias de Portugal SA  and  Enel SpA (ENEL) , especially in the
southeastern region of Dobrogea on the  Black Sea .  The country has a target to get 24 percent of its energy
from renewable sources by 2020 as part of a European Union-wide
program to lower  carbon emissions .  “Romania won’t have any problems in reaching its target
for green energy by 2020 as we already have 1,700 megawatts
under development this year, which will bring us very close to
the maximum capacity that our  power grid  can support,” Nita
said. The nation won’t need EU approval to make subsidy changes,
he said, citing earlier moves by other member states to cut aid.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  