-- Rousseff Woos Investors After Surprises Drive Them From Brazil
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-02-28T03:32:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/rousseff-woos-investors-after-surprises-drive-them-from-brazil.html
Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff
is charting a new course to revive a flagging economy: more
listening to investors and fewer unilateral decisions.  Since Jan. 1, Rousseff has met one-on-one with 11
businessmen, from billionaire  Eike Batista  to Banco Santander SA
Chairman Emilio Botin, to reverse a slide in sentiment that’s
behind the world’s third-worst stock slump. This week she sent
to New York and London aides including Finance Minister Guido Mantega to shop for $235 billion in infrastructure investments.  The outreach comes ahead of a report tomorrow that is
forecast to show the economy expanded 1 percent last year, half
the pace of the U.S., even as  inflation  headed above 6 percent.
While the rest of South America benefits from optimism that
 Europe ’s debt crisis is being contained and China’s growth
rebound, investors in Brazil are wondering what comes next after
a barrage of measures since Rousseff took power in 2011, from
abrupt turns in currency and monetary policy to cuts in taxes
and utility rates.  “Authorities realize they have a confidence problem and
that’s why they’re trying a charm offensive,” Luis Oganes, head
of Latin America research at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a
phone interview from New York. “There’s a realization that
hyperactive policymaking last year damaged the government’s
image. What we hear from officials is that they want to tone
this down and provide clearer signals” to investors.  Investor Mistrust  After a decade in power spreading to the poor the wealth
generated by  Brazil ’s commodities boom, Rousseff’s Workers’
Party, or PT, is now trying to tackle longstanding obstacles to
faster growth that are known as the “Custo Brasil,” or Brazil
cost. Brazil’s aging infrastructure is ranked below that of many
African nations by the World Bank and the country’s tax burden
as a percent of gross domestic product is nearly double the
region’s 20 percent average, Oganes says.  One reason for the PT’s difficulty in luring investment is
a mistrust of private enterprise. Rousseff, a former guerrilla
who was jailed by Brazil’s military dictatorship in the 1970s,
vowed in a televised speech marking Sept. 7 Independence Day
“not to rest” until banks and power companies lower to
“civilized” levels their fees and rates.  Less Predictability  Economists have long advocated cost-cutting to boost
competitiveness in the world’s No. 2 emerging market. Still,
imposing such policies by fiat without taking into account
galloping inflation is creating distortions, said Armando Castelar from the Getulio Vargas Foundation, a university. Among
those caught in the crossfire is state-run  Petroleo Brasileiro
SA (PETR4) , which reported its first quarterly loss in 13 years in 2012
as the government kept a lid on gasoline prices.  “There’s a common philosophy that investors were earning
too much and profits needed to be reduced at any cost and as
quickly as possible,” Castelar, who heads FGV’s applied
economics research institute, said in an interview in Rio de
Janeiro. “This scares away investment, both by those being
attacked today and those who wonder if it’ll be them tomorrow.”  The “original sin,” which made the business climate less
predictable, was aggressive cutting of interest rates with
inflation above the 4.5 percent target since 2010, said
Castelar. The use of capital controls to weaken the currency and
aid manufacturers has also fueled volatility, he said. The real
plunged 24 percent in the 12 months that followed its reaching a
12-year high in July 2011, more than all major currencies.  Another blow to confidence came last September when
Rousseff announced the government would renew electricity
concessions only for companies agreeing to slash rates by more
than 20 percent. Brazil’s 16 biggest power utilities, including
Batista’s MPX Energia SA, lost $19 billion in  market value 
between the announcement and the end of the year.  Mantega’s View  The rate cut, which Itau Unibanco Holdings SA, Brazil’s
biggest bank by market value, said left industry executives
“stupefied,” dragged down broader sentiment. The Bovespa  index 
has fallen 6 percent this year, the third-worst performance
among 94 benchmark gauges after Jamaica and Slovakia.  Mantega, in an interview, defended the government’s record,
saying that the capital controls were essential for stabilizing
the exchange rate at a level that permits industry to survive.
Implied volatility on one-month real options, which reflects
investors’ expectations for future currency swings, has fallen
to 9 percent yesterday from 15 percent at the end of June,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  With regards to the power cuts, Mantega said investors
weren’t paying attention to policy shifts that were signaled
well in advance.  “What happened is that some companies, some investors,
didn’t get their math right,” he said at Bloomberg’s New York
headquarters Feb. 26. “During a crisis you have to make
changes, clear and transparent ones that respect the rules of
the game, to create conditions for growth to resume.”  Turnaround?  With low interest rates discouraging investment in bonds,
which have traditionally provided easy returns in Brazil, stocks
this year should rally, he said.  The same state-led approach is being used to modernize
roads, ports, railways and airports, with public banks taking
the lead. Private bank lending slowed for a second straight year
in 2012, expanding 8 percent, while loans by state-owned banks
such as development lender BNDES surged 27 percent.  More recently the government has emphasized unleashing what
Mantega has taken to calling investors’ “animal spirits,” a
phrase coined by the late British economist John Maynard Keynes.
After companies balked at participating in a Jan. 30 auction of
stretches of two major highways, the sale was pulled and the
contract terms sweetened by extending concession periods by five
years and raising minimum guaranteed returns.  Tougher on Inflation  “It was a stroke of luck that the private sector didn’t
show up,” said Claudio Frischtak, president of Inter.B, a Rio-
based consultancy specializing in infrastructure. “The
government woke up to the fact that it needs to do its homework
to attract investment”  Another sign of a turnaround may be comments this month by
both Mantega and central bank President Alexandre Tombini that
policy makers stand ready to raise borrowing costs after vowing
for months to keep the key rate at a record low 7.25 percent for
an extended period.  The shift on inflation as Rousseff gears up for a likely
re-election run next year led JPMorgan on Feb. 20 to push
forward to May from 2014 its forecast for rates to begin rising.
Policy makers lowered the Selic in August 2011 after raising it
at each of its five previous meetings, fueling speculation that
the surprise cut was coordinated with the government.  New Strategy  Mantega’s first trip to Wall Street since September 2011
and Rousseff’s opening her agenda to investors are steps in the
policy rebranding, according to three government officials.
Slower-than-expected growth and the electricity industry selloff
led to the shift in strategy, according to the officials, who
asked not to be named because they are not authorized to
describe the internal discussions.  One businessman, also speaking on condition of anonymity
because his conversation was private, said he left a two-hour
meeting in Rousseff’s office reassured that the president is
fully aware of past mistakes and is intent on using all policy
levers to speed up private investment.  The president’s office declined to comment in an e-mail.  Ports Test  The government’s determination to push through changes that
threaten entrenched interests will be tested in its effort to
restructure the nation’s ports. Unloading and moving cargo
through customs takes up to seven days in Brazil, triple the
time in the U.S., according to the World Bank. Unions at the
public ports walked off the job for six hours Feb. 22, stating
that Rousseff’s proposal to sell 159 terminals to investors
would destroy jobs. The government postponed the first auctions
while it negotiates an end to the standoff.  Tomorrow’s GDP report will likely show that investment fell
for a sixth straight quarter, Castelar says. Investment equal to
18.7 percent of GDP is the lowest among the region’s major
economies and less than half of  China ’s 48 percent.  Brazil is far from a crisis like the one it survived in
2002, when Rousseff’s mentor and predecessor, Luiz Inacio Lula
da Silva, gained power as investors dumped the nation’s debt on
concerns the former union leader would default.  Gross debt levels, while on the rise since 2011, are the
envy of advanced economies, a  heated  jobs market is fueling
robust demand and foreign direct investment of $65 billion last
year surpassed all nations except the U.S., China and Hong Kong.  ‘Lot of Cards’  “They still have a lot of cards to play, and if they play
them right, they will have a great future,” Christian Deseglise, head of sales for the Americas at HSBC Holdings Plc.
and co-director of Columbia University’s BRICLab, said in a
phone interview from New York.  As a result of past stimulus, GDP should expand 3 percent
this year, Oganes said. Still, that’s below Brazil’s 3.6 percent
annual average over the past decade and less than forecasted
growth for every major regional economy except  Venezuela .  “The key question now is how to undo what you’ve already
done without losing credibility,” Beny Parnes, a former central
bank director in 2002 and 2003, said in an interview in Rio de
Janeiro. “The best thing would be to stop talking and let
private investors and the market get to work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Goodman in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  