-- Russia’s 2027 Bonds Rise for Second Day to Pare Monthly Decline
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-02-28T15:42:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/russia-s-2027-ruble-debt-pares-first-drop-in-nine-months-on-oil.html
Russia ’s ruble bonds due in 2027
pared their first monthly drop since May as  Brent crude  climbed,
boosting the outlook for the world’s biggest energy producer.  OFZ notes due February 2027 advanced for a second day,
cutting the yield six basis points to 7.17 percent as of 7 p.m.
in Moscow, reducing the increase this month to 13 basis points,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The ruble strengthened 0.1
percent against Bank Rossii’s dollar-euro basket to 34.8132.  Brent oil added 0.4 percent to $112.28 a barrel in  London ,
advancing for the first time in three days. Crude and natural
gas contribute about 50 percent of Russia’s state revenue.
Russia’s ruble bonds fell this month as concern  Europe ’s debt
crisis will worsen curbed investor appetite for riskier assets.  “If the flight from risky assets on overseas markets
accelerates, we might see a prolonged correction,”  Rosbank (ROSB) 
analysts lead by Vladimir Kolychev said in an e-mailed note.  The ruble weakened less than 0.1 percent against the
dollar, taking its decline in February to 1.7 percent, the first
monthly drop since October.  Euroclear Bank SA, the world’s largest bond settlement
system, started over-the-counter operations with Russian
government debt on Feb. 7 as the country opens the local market
to foreigners. Clearstream International SA started custody and
settlement services with OFZs today, the company said in a
statement. It plans to offer delivery-versus-payment
transactions in the spring and settlement for municipal and
corporate bonds in the coming months.  Potential Boost  An improvement in the global market may spur foreign
investors’ interest toward local debt, according to BCS
Financial Group.  “Speculative investments into seven-year and longer-
maturity OFZs may be attractive again in the coming days,”
Dmitry Dorofeev, a fixed-income strategist at BCS in Moscow,
said by e-mail.  The  Finance Ministry  replaced a sale of 15-year ruble
bonds with five-year debt on Feb. 26, citing “market
conditions.” The ministry sold 50 percent of the five-year
notes at the top of its yield guidance yesterday.  If the market conditions don’t change dramatically, the
government may have to change its March schedule of auctions,
Sberbank Investment Research analysts led by Alexander Kudrin
said in an e-mailed note today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  