-- Salesforce Revenue Tops Estimates on New Product Demand
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-03-01T15:49:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/salesforce-forecast-tops-estimates-on-new-product-demand.html
Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) , the largest
maker of online customer-management software, rose to a record
high after reporting sales and profit that topped estimates as
it expanded in marketing and customer-service tools.  Sales in the fiscal fourth quarter, which ended in January,
increased 32 percent to $834.7 million, the company said in a
statement yesterday. That compares with analysts’ average
estimate of $830.9 million, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Profit excluding certain items was 51 cents a share,
exceeding the prediction for 40 cents.  Chief Executive Officer Marc Benioff is seeking to
accelerate growth by  pushing beyond  cloud-computing software for
sales management. He’s offering customer service, online
marketing and human-resources software over the Web. Businesses
are also signing up for bigger deals -- Salesforce sealed nine
worth $10 million or more each during the quarter.  “They’re landing elephants,” said  Brent Thill , an analyst
at UBS AG in San Francisco who recommends  buying  the shares.
“There’s a sense that their total addressable market keeps
expanding with the marketing cloud, and the big guys, Oracle and
SAP, are racing to catch up.”  Salesforce rose 6.9 percent to $180.84 at 10:41 a.m. in New
York, the biggest gain in three months. The San Francisco-based
company said in January it’s planning a 4-for-1 stock split to
make each of its shares more “affordable and attractive” to
more investors. The  shares  have soared almost eightfold since
November 2008, while the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  has
doubled.  Billings Growth  “Obviously people liked the quarter,” Pat Walravens, an
analyst at JMP Securities LLC in San Francisco, said in an
interview. “The guidance was middle of the road. What you
really want to understand is how good the billings number is,”
said Walravens, who recommends buying the shares.  Billings, the amount invoiced to customers and an indicator
of future revenue, grew 28.5 percent to $1.4 billion in the
fourth quarter, compared with the $1.28 billion average of eight
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  About 80 percent of billings in the fourth quarter were for
annual contracts, compared with shorter deals the company had
previously emphasized, Chief Financial Officer Graham Smith said
on the call.  Revenue Outlook  “No other top-10 enterprise software company is growing
faster,” Benioff said on a conference call with analysts
yesterday. He said Salesforce may surpass  SAP AG (SAP)  this year as
the largest supplier of customer-management software. Salesforce
plans to expand with more acquisitions to cater to chief
marketing officers, he said.  “We need to buy more marketing companies, honestly”
Benioff said. “We’re trying to build a muscle of Salesforce
where we can talk comfortably with CMOs.”  Revenue for the current quarter, which ends in April, will
be $882 million to $887 million, compared with the $886.9
million average  estimate  of analysts. Profit excluding certain
items will be 40 cents to 42 cents a share, compared with
analysts’ 42-cent projection.  For the current fiscal year, revenue will be $3.82 billion
to $3.87 billion, Salesforce said, compared with analysts’
prediction for $3.85 billion.  Benioff is expanding into tools for human resources and
online marketing, paying $689 million last year for Buddy Media
Inc., whose software helps companies place advertisements on
Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc. Salesforce has also begun selling
ads that appear alongside status updates on Twitter, one of the
first companies to do so.  Salesforce is “investing for future growth” in Buddy
Media, Smith said.  Salesforce, which is spending heavily on sales compensation
and marketing  expenses  as it seeks to take advantage of growing
demand for cloud computing, posted a fourth-quarter net loss of
$20.8 million, compared with a $4.08 million loss a year
earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  