-- SandRidge Posts Quarterly Loss on Higher Oil and Gas Cost
-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 2013-02-28T23:59:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/sandridge-trims-fourth-quarter-loss-on-higher-oil-and-gas-output.html
SandRidge Energy Inc. (SD) , the energy
producer facing shareholder calls to oust its chief executive
officer and most of the board, posted a fourth-quarter loss as
higher production costs countered rising output.  The loss narrowed to $302 million, or 63 cents a share,
from a loss of $389 million, or 97 cents, a year earlier, the
Oklahoma City-based company said in a statement today. Excluding
one-time costs such as losses on oil and natural gas contracts
and asset impairments, SandRidge earned 3 cents more than the 3-
cent average of 25 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The results “look like a beat” and may reduce some of the
pressure for a board shakeup, Ben Wyatt, an analyst with
Stephens Inc. in Fort Worth,  Texas , said in an interview.
“Putting in a good quarter can definitely go a long way,” said
Wyatt, who rates SandRidge’s shares the equivalent of a hold and
doesn’t own any.  TPG-Axon Capital Management LP, the company’s third-largest
 shareholder , has asked shareholders to remove the board of
directors and fire CEO Tom Ward because of the company’s
“disastrous” performance. A new board might sell SandRidge to
a larger operator, or bring in a new CEO to generate a profit
out of SandRidge’s oil and gas fields, TPG-Axon said in filings.  Revenue Rises  Revenue rose to $1.4 billion from $373.8 million a year
earlier. Sales of oil and gas increased 51 percent to $500
million as SandRidge increased output from its 1.8 million acres
in the Mississippi Lime formation in Oklahoma and  Kansas .  “This is the best financial position the company has ever
been in,” Chief Executive Officer Tom Ward said in an interview
today after the results were announced.  Production increased 61 percent to the equivalent of 9.8
million barrels of oil compared to a year ago, according to the
statement. The company will be able to fund its drilling in 2013
after agreeing to sell 225,000 acres in the Permian Basin for
$2.6 billion, Ward said.  SandRidge lowered its 2013 production forecast 13 percent
to 34.3 million barrels of oil equivalent because of the Permian
sale, Ward said. The company maintained its forecast for $1.75
billion in capital spending.  Costs Rise  Production expenses rose to $13.67 barrels of oil
equivalent from $13.20 a year earlier primarily due to offshore
properties acquired in the second quarter of 2012, according to
the statement. Ward said costs will improve as SandRidge
concentrates on drilling in the Mississippi Lime, where drilling
is cheaper.  Ward declined to discuss the shareholder campaign against
him. The company said Feb. 20 the dissidents are using “false,
misleading and inflammatory statements” and urged shareholders
to keep the current board in place.  The results were announced after the close of regular
trading. The shares rose 0.4 percent to $5.70 at the close in
New York. They’ve fallen 10 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  