-- HSBC, Standard Chartered Profit Seen Up on Asset Sales, Revenue
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-02-28T10:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/hsbc-standard-chartered-profit-seen-up-on-asset-sales-revenue.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN) , Britain’s two largest banks by value, may post
increased profit for 2012 after asset sales and revenue growth
mitigated settlements for anti- money laundering  and sanction
failures.  HSBC’s pretax profit will rise 7.4 percent to $23.5 billion
when Europe’s biggest bank reports earnings on March 4,
according to the median estimate of 26 analysts  surveyed  by
Bloomberg. Standard Chartered may say pretax profit climbed to
$7.12 billion from $6.78 billion, according to the median
 estimate  of 33 analysts.  Stuart Gulliver  has closed or sold 46 businesses to
increase profitability since he became HSBC  chief executive
officer  in 2011. That may add about $8 billion to profit for
2012, helping offset the $1.92 billion paid to settle U.S. money
laundering probes in December, Amit Goel, an analyst at Credit
Suisse, wrote in a Feb. 22 note to clients.  Standard Chartered ,
which like London-based HSBC focuses on  emerging markets , may
post a 7.2 percent increase in revenue led by corporate banking,
wrote Goel. It agreed last year to pay regulators $667 million
after they alleged it violated U.S. sanctions with  Iran .  “HSBC gets a one-off gain from disposing of these
business, but you lose earnings further down the line,” said
Gary Greenwood, a banking analyst Shore Capital Ltd. in
Liverpool who rates Standard Chartered a buy and HSBC a hold.
Standard Chartered’s profit “will come from continued strong
top-line growth,” he said.  Gulliver Retreat  Gulliver is retreating from certain markets and sacrificing
revenue after pledging in 2011 to increase return on equity, a
measure of profitability, to at least 12 percent. He’s earmarked
30,000 job cuts to help eliminate $2.5 billion to $3.5 billion
of expenses. Revenue fell about 5 percent to $68.6 billion in
2012, according to the analyst survey. It rose 8.4 percent to
$19.12 billion at smaller competitor Standard Chartered,
analysts predicted.  HSBC completed the sale of its U.S. credit card unit to
Capital One Financial Corp. for a premium of $2.5 billion in May
and this month sold its stake in Shenzhen, China-based Ping An
Insurance (Group) Co. for about $9.4 billion.  HSBC’s 2013 earnings will be diluted 12 percent from those
disposals, while it will receive an increase in its core Tier 1
capital ratio, a measure of financial strength, of 110 basis
points, estimates Greenwood. One basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  U.S. Settlements  The lender also agreed in May to sell four units in  Latin
America  for about $400 million in cash to Colombia’s Banco GNB
Sudameris SA and said this month it would sell its Panama unit
for $2.1 billion.  HSBC on Dec. 11 agreed to settle U.S. probes of money
laundering in the largest such accord, topping the $619 million
in penalties paid in June by the Netherlands’s  ING Groep NV. (INGA)  The
bank made an $800 million provision in the third quarter to
cover a potential settlement, adding to $700 million it had
already earmarked.  Standard Chartered agreed to pay $667 million to U.S.
regulators after they alleged it violated U.S. sanctions with
Iran, making its final settlement in December. The lender in
August was accused by  Benjamin Lawsky , head of the  New York 
Department of Financial Services, of helping Iran launder about
$250 billion in violation of federal laws, keeping false records
and handling lucrative wire transfers for Iranian clients.  The fines for both banks “in the grand scheme are
absorbable,” said Vivek Raja, an analyst at Oriel Securities
Ltd. in London. “It would now be nice to get a steer on a
return-on-equity target from HSBC, particularly in light of
recent earnings-dilutive business exits,” he said.  Shares Gain  HSBC has  climbed  14 percent in London trading this year,
giving the company a market value of 137 billion pounds ($208
billion), while Standard Chartered has gained 14 percent for a
value of 43.4 billion pounds. The six-member  FTSE 350 Banks
Index (F3BANKS)  rose 14 percent in the same period.  Standard Chartered, which gets most of its profit in  Asia ,
is expected to report full-year revenue growth in the “high
single digits,” it said in a Dec. 6 market update. Finance
Director Richard Meddings said Oct. 30 that the bank might miss
its earlier growth target of at least 10 percent. Full-year
revenue in markets including Africa,  Malaysia , China and
Indonesia may grow 10 percent or more, the bank said.  Standard Chartered’s  investors  will want to see signs of a
turnaround in India and  Korea , Oriel’s Raja said. Consumer
banking operations in Korea were “muted,” Standard Chartered
said in October. Corporate loan growth will be “slow” in India
in 2013 with “single-digit” borrowing growth compared with 21
percent in 2012, Shore Capital’s Goel wrote.  HSBC reports earnings at 8:15 a.m.  London  time on March 4,
while Standard Chartered publishes results at 8:15 a.m. on March
5. Officials for both banks declined to comment.  -- Editors: Jon Menon, Steve Bailey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  