-- Sears Posts Wider-Than-Predicted Loss as Sales Decline
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2013-02-28T21:17:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/sears-posts-489-million-loss-as-sales-continue-six-year-decline.html
Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) , the retailer
controlled by hedge-fund manager  Edward Lampert , posted a
fourth-quarter loss that was larger than it forecast last month
as sales fell for the sixth consecutive year.  The loss narrowed to $489 million from $2.4 billion a year
earlier, the  Hoffman Estates , Illinois-based company said today
in a statement. Sears had predicted a loss of $280 million to
$360 million, excluding potential impact from store closings and
other items. Revenue fell 1.8 percent to $12.3 billion, topping
the two analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg as domestic
same-store Sears sales improved.  Lampert took over as chief executive officer this month as
the department-store chain works to snap a streak of quarterly
sales  declines  stretching back to May 2007. His predecessor, Lou D’Ambrosio, worked to cut inventory and debt, increase online
sales and use data from tens of millions of loyalty-program
customers to spur revenue growth.  “The balance sheet looks good and things aren’t getting
worse, but it is a year they raised extra money” after selling
assets, said  Paul Swinand , an analyst for  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in
 Chicago . While operations are still “mediocre at best,” the
company did improve earnings even after spinning off its faster-
growing smaller-format stores.  Sears fell 5.2 percent to $45 at the close in New York. The
shares had advanced 15 percent this year before today,  compared 
with a 7.7 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Retailing
Index.  ‘Significantly Below’  In a letter to shareholders, employees and customers,
Lampert highlighted improvements such as better clothing sales
and the retailer’s growing loyalty program.  “We demonstrated that the operating performance of the
company, while significantly below what it should be, was not on
a continued downward trajectory,” Lampert wrote.  Retailers including Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Target Corp.
are struggling to boost sales as a 2 percentage-point increase
in the  payroll tax  and delayed tax returns leave shoppers with
less to spend. Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, said last
week that same-store sales this quarter will be little changed
because of a slowdown this month. And  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS) , the third-
largest U.S. department-store chain, today predicted first-
quarter and annual earnings per share that trailed analysts’
estimates, sending its shares lower.  Loyalty Program  Sears sold stores and spun off its Hometown, Hardware and
Outlet stores last year, as well as a portion of its Canadian
unit. Total debt was $3.1 billion at year end, compared with
$3.5 billion the previous year.  Fourth-quarter adjusted earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization rose to $429 million from $351
million, within Sears’ forecast range of $365 million and $465
million.  Sears said that more than half of its U.S. Sears and Kmart
sales came from customers in its loyalty program. Online sales
in the quarter rose 25 percent from the previous year and 17
percent for the full year.  “ Sears Holdings  is becoming a membership company,”
Lampert said.  Revenue at U.S. Sears stores open at least a year rose 0.8
percent, helped by clothing, home items and appliance sales,
while Kmart’s declined 3.7 percent, for a companywide decrease
of 1.6 percent. Lower consumer-electronics sales dragged down
results.  J.C Penney Struggles  Six consecutive quarters of same-store clothing sales
increases at domestic Sears stores may be partly attributed to
the troubles at J.C. Penney Co., where CEO  Ron Johnson  has tried
to overhaul stores and pricing, according to Poonam Goya, a
Bloomberg Industries analyst.  J.C. Penney lost $4.3 billion in sales in the first year of
Johnson’s turnaround plan. The Plano, Texas-based retailer said
yesterday annual revenue slid 25 percent to $13 billion, the
lowest since at least 1987.  In his letter, Lampert rebutted criticisms that he said had
“mistakenly concluded that our issues were primarily related to
underinvesting in our stores.”  “If it were just about store investment, then Best Buy
would be thriving after the demise of Circuit City, Barnes &
Noble would be thriving after the demise of Borders and other
retailers who made significant store investments would be
thriving instead of struggling to chart a new course,” he
wrote.  Bookstore chain  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  posted a $6.06 million
third-quarter net loss today as sales slowed for its Nook e-
readers and tablets, while Best Buy Co. has had two consecutive
quarters of sales declines.  ‘Enormous Shift’  Lampert said he expected to see “an enormous shift in the
type of talent that will be running retail enterprises in the
future,” and that Sears had been early in recognizing the
shift.  D’Ambrosio came to Sears from a technology background. He
headed telecommunications company Avaya Inc. and spent 16 years
at International Business Machines Corp.  The fourth-quarter loss narrowed to $4.61 a share from
$22.63 a year earlier. On an adjusted basis, earnings per share
from continuing operations were $1.12, compared with 54 cents a
year ago. The company took charges of $455 million in pension
settlements in the quarter, as well as $41 million in pension
expenses.  Sears said it will cut $500 million this year from its 2012
$8.6 billion peak inventory level. It reduced inventory by a
similar amount last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in  New York  at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  