-- SEC Fraud Actions Lag, Currency, EU Cartels: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-02-28T13:45:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/sec-fraud-actions-lag-eu-cartels-compliance.html
The Securities and Exchange
Commission must move more quickly in pressing some fraud
lawsuits, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in a decision that may
affect agencies across the government.  The justices unanimously ruled in favor of two Gabelli
Funds LLC officials seeking to block SEC claims that they
improperly let a client engage in market timing, a practice of
making frequent, short-term trades at the expense of other
investors. Chief Justice  John Roberts  wrote the court’s opinion.  Marc J. Gabelli and Bruce Alpert contended that the SEC
sued after the five-year window for seeking penalties had
expired. A federal appeals court in New York said the suit could
go forward because the window doesn’t open in fraud cases until
the SEC has reason to know a violation has occurred.  The case raised issues similar to those addressed by the
Supreme Court in 2010, when it ruled that the two-year period
for shareholder fraud suits doesn’t begin until investors have
indications of intentional company wrongdoing. The new case
concerns SEC enforcement actions, rather than private suits.  At the time of the alleged wrongdoing -- from 1999 to 2002
-- Gabelli was the portfolio manager for the Gabelli Global
Growth Fund and Alpert was chief operating officer of Gabelli
Funds. The SEC filed its complaint in 2008.  The SEC and the Obama administration argued that the court
has repeatedly endorsed the so-called discovery rule in fraud
cases.  The case is Gabelli v. SEC, 11-1274.  Compliance Policy  U.K. FSA Doesn’t Want Power to Prosecute CEOs of Failed Banks  The U.K. finance regulator doesn’t need the power to
prosecute executives at banks that fail or take bailouts because
such matters are unlikely to be criminal, the agency told
lawmakers.  Bank failures are most often due to mismanagement rather
than deliberate wrongdoing, the  Financial Services Authority 
said in a written response to questions from the  Parliamentary
Commission on Banking Standards , published yesterday.  “The causes of a major bank failure are always likely to
be complex and include a combination of decisions made within
the bank and inextricably linked to external events,” the FSA
said.  The regulator is “not convinced” that bankers would act
more cautiously in taking risk or that the public would have
greater confidence in authorities’ ability to take action
against mismanagement if it had the power to criminally
prosecute them because it would rarely be used.  Instead, the FSA said it would prefer stronger regulatory
powers. In September, it told the committee it would like an
extension of the three-year statute of limitations on probes and
the ability to temporarily ban senior managers from their jobs
while they’re under investigation.  CFTC to Take Up Uncleared Swaps Rule in Second Half: Gensler  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, in consultation
with European regulators, probably will “take up” final margin
rules for uncleared swaps, and related rules on capital, in the
year’s second half, Chairman  Gary Gensler  said in prepared
testimony for an oversight hearing by the  Senate Agriculture
Committee .  The commission’s proposed margin rules excluded non-
financial end-users from margin requirements for uncleared
swaps.  Separately, the committee will seek public comment by May 1
on reauthorization of CFTC, Senator Debbie Stabenow, a Democrat
from Michigan, said in a statement.  The CFTC was last renewed in 2007. The agency’s five-year
authorization expires this fiscal year.  Payday Loans Get U.S. Consumer Bureau Scrutiny as ‘Debt Traps’  The U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is
considering action to limit the impact of payday and other
short-term loans that can become “debt traps” for borrowers,
said Director  Richard Cordray .  Tougher rules on short-term credit could crimp revenue at
banks such as  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Regions Financial Corp. (RF)  that
offer such loans. CFPB action could also affect non-bank firms
that engage in payday lending, such as  Cash America
International Inc. (CSH) ,  EZCORP Inc. (EZPW)  and  DFC Global Corp. (DLLR)   The remarks by Cordray may mark the beginning of additional
efforts by the agency to address potential abuses in the area of
short-term lending, especially so-called payday loans.  The agency plans to extend its consumer complaint system to
include short-term credit in the third quarter of this year,
according to two people briefed on the bureau’s plans. Before
that, it plans to issue a report on the repeated use of payday
loans and short-term bank credit often referred to as deposit
advance products, the people said.  Consumer groups use the phrase to describe the downside of
payday loans, a type of loan in which borrowers provide as
collateral a postdated check for the amount of the loan plus a
fee. Many of the transactions are now made online, with
borrowers authorizing lenders to debit their account
electronically when the payments fall due.  In his remarks, Cordray didn’t refer to directly to payday
lending, but expressed concern about frequent users of short-
term credit.  The payday lending lobby has sought to defuse this
criticism by emphasizing that they compete with other de facto
lending products, such as checking overdraft fees.  Jamie Fulmer, senior vice president of public affairs for
Advance America Cash Advance Centers Inc., a payday lender, said
his company’s customers typically get eight loans a year. The
company also offers customers in some states the ability to
extend their loan terms. Advance America was acquired by Grupo
Elektra SAB last year.  “We work with each customer to ensure they understand the
terms of their loan and can repay it,” Fulmer said by e-mail.  Sam Olens, the attorney general of Georgia, said attorneys
general would welcome federal action to limit the ability of
lenders to affiliate with Native American tribes.  Japan Exchange to Set Up Asia High-Speed Links, Bourse Says  Japan Exchange’s high-speed links with Hong Kong,
Singapore, Australia and other access points in Asia will expand
high-speed trading from March, bourse spokesman Naoya Takahashi
said.  The Tokyo Stock Exchange will use NTT Communications’
network for the connections. The connections will allow overseas
investors to manage trading and system changes remotely.  Nikkei reported the plan yesterday.  Compliance Action  EU Regulators Warn Rookie Traders Over Contracts for Difference  The European Union’s top banking and markets regulators
warned inexperienced investors that they may lose more money
than they expect when trading contracts for difference.  Volatile markets, combined with extra leverage, “can
result in rapid changes to your overall investment position,”
the  European Banking Authority  and  European Securities and
Markets Authority  said in a joint statement on the EBA’s
website.  The contracts are only appropriate for people who have
“extensive experience in trading, in particular during volatile
markets, and can afford any losses,” the EBA said.  A contract for difference is an agreement between a buyer
and a seller to exchange the difference between the current
price of an asset such as shares, currencies or commodities, and
its price when the contract is closed.  Russian Banks to Gain From Currency Swap Auctions  The start of currency swap auctions by the Russian central
bank will smooth rates on the interbank market and decrease the
cost of funding, BCS Financial Group’s fixed-income strategist
Dmitry Dorofeev said in a note to clients.  Banks with a high utilization rate of repo collateral or
with no access to Bank Rossii’s repo auctions will benefit the
most, according to BCS Financial Group.  The volumes of currency swap auctions may reach 100b-200b
rubles if rate declines are closer to the repo auction rate of
5.5 percent, BCS Financial Group said.  The current fixed currency swap rate is 6.5 percent.  Bank Rossii and the Moscow Exchange plan to start currency
swap auctions this year, central bank Deputy Chairman Sergey
Shvetsov said on Feb. 26.  SEC Said to Probe Milken’s Guggenheim Ties for Ban Violation  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is
investigating whether former junk-bond pioneer  Michael Milken 
acted as an adviser to Guggenheim Partners LLC in violation of a
lifetime ban from the securities industry, a person with
knowledge of the matter said.  Investigators are reviewing whether Milken, an investor in
the $170 billion asset-management firm, has in effect managed
other clients’ money by playing an active advisory role to the
firm, said the person, who asked not to be named because the
matter isn’t public. Neither Milken nor Guggenheim has been
accused of wrongdoing.  Milken, the former head of junk-bond trading at Drexel
Burnham Lambert Inc. in the 1980s, served 22 months in prison
and after pleading guilty to securities fraud in 1990 and was
permanently barred from serving as a broker or investment
adviser. In 1998, Milken agreed to pay $47 million to settle SEC
claims he had violated the ban; he didn’t admit or deny
wrongdoing.  According to Fortune magazine, which reported the
investigation earlier yesterday, the firm has handed over
documents including trading records and emails in response to an
SEC subpoena. Investigators are reviewing transactions that
Milken has done jointly with Guggenheim, Fortune said.  Torie von Alt, director of public relations at Guggenheim,
declined to comment. SEC spokesman  John Nester  also declined to
comment.  In response to a request for comment, Geoffrey Moore, a
senior adviser to Milken, provided a link to a statement given
to Fortune. In that statement, Milken said he discusses his and
his family’s investments with advisers and money managers from
time to time, but only as an investor. He has had no desire to
be in the securities business in any capacity and has strictly
avoided doing anything that could be interpreted otherwise,
according to the statement.  GLG Partners’s Esprey Said to Be Among People Arrested by FSA  Carl Esprey, who has worked as a portfolio manager at GLG
Partners Inc., was one of the three employees arrested yesterday
in London on suspicion of insider trading, according to a person
with knowledge of the matter.  Esprey, 33, was detained and questioned about trades he
made as a private individual, said the person, who asked not to
be identified because the information hasn’t been publicly
disclosed. He joined  Man Group Plc (EMG) ’s GLG unit in January 2008 as
a portfolio manager for its European Long-Short Fund, according
to a July 2012 press release issued by the company.  The investigation is part of the push by the Financial
Services Authority to crack down on insider trading by employees
at London’s biggest financial companies after previously
targeting lower-profile individuals.  Esprey didn’t respond to e-mails sent to his GLG address
and he couldn’t be reached on his mobile phone. FSA spokesman
 Joseph Eyre  declined to comment on the identity of the three
people arrested. Man Group Chief Executive Emmanuel Roman also
declined to comment, when asked about the investigation of the
employee on a conference call with reporters today.  Esprey is now listed as “inactive” on the FSA register of
people approved to hold positions in the finance industry after
being shown as “active” as recently as yesterday. Before
joining GLG in London, he worked in the corporate-finance
department of BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mining
company, the GLG statement showed.  GLG last year appointed Esprey to a team of traders focused
on investing in Asia, the statement said. Esprey was identified
as the team’s “materials specialist.”  Man Group confirmed that one of its employees had been
arrested by the FSA in an e-mail sent yesterday. The
investigation regards the person’s “actions as a private
individual and not as an employee of Man Group or GLG,” it
said. Man Group said it suspended the employee and had
cooperated with the FSA’s probe.  Courts  Telekom Austria Ex-Managers Given Jail for Share Manipulation  Telekom Austria AG’s (TKA)  former finance chief and an ex-board
member were found guilty of manipulating the share price in 2004
to trigger bonus payments for themselves and other employees.
The two were sentenced to jail.  Former Chief Financial Officer Stefano Colombo was
sentenced to 42 months in jail by a Vienna Criminal Court jury
led by Judge Michael Tolstiuk. Rudolf Fischer, a former deputy
chief executive officer, was given a three-year sentence.
Another employee was given jail time, while former CEO Heinz
Sundt was acquitted. Lawyers for Colombo and Fischer didn’t
immediately say whether they plan to appeal.  The three people found guilty were ordered to pay 9.9
million euros ($13 million) sought by the company as
compensation.  The trial that began Feb. 11 was the first to result from
multiple corruption probes into the Vienna-based company.  Fischer admitted during the trial that he approved a
payment to the broker who bought Telekom Austria stock to lift
the price. While Colombo repaid his bonus, he rejected all
charges and said he hadn’t known some of the facts that surfaced
in court. Sundt said he didn’t know about any manipulation.  Philips, LG, Samsung Appeal Shares of EU’s Record Cartel Fines  Royal Philips Electronics NV (PHIA) ,  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  and a
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  unit appealed their shares of record
European Union antitrust fines for plotting to fix prices of
cathode-ray tubes used in TV screens and computer displays.  The trio, which were among the electronic companies ordered
in December to pay 1.47 billion euros ($1.93 billion), filed
appeals with the EU General Court in Luxembourg, the bloc’s
second-highest tribunal. The appeals were confirmed by officials
in the court’s press service, who aren’t allowed to be quoted by
name, in line with its policy.  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  separately said it
also appealed.  Philips was fined 313.4 million euros, LG 295.6 million
euros, plus a joint fine for both companies of 391.9 million
euros.  Samsung SDI Co. Ltd., (006400)  an affiliate of Samsung Electronics
Co., lodged an appeal against its 150.8 million-euro fine on
Dec. 14, according to court filings.  Joost Akkermans, a spokesman for Amsterdam-based Philips,
confirmed the appeal at the EU’s second highest court, declining
to comment further. Samsung and LG representatives didn’t
immediately respond to calls or e-mails seeking comment. Toshiba
said in an e-mailed statement that it filed its appeal Feb. 20,
declining to comment further.  Chunghwa Picture Tubes Ltd. (2475)  escaped a fine because it was
the first to inform regulators of  the cartel .  The cases are: T-92/13, Philips v. Commission; T-91/13, LG
Electronics v. Commission; T-104/13, Toshiba v. Commission;
T-84/13, Samsung SDI v. Commission.  Interviews  Barnier Says Bank Bonuses Will Still Be ‘Quite Substantial’  Michel Barnier , the European Union’s financial services
chief, said that banker bonuses “will still remain quite
substantial” after a deal today to curb variable pay.  European Parliament  lawmakers and national government
officials agreed to ban bonuses that are more than twice
bankers’ fixed pay, in a tentative deal that may end more than
18 months of wrangling over how the EU will apply global bank
rules drawn up by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.  The bonus restrictions were included in a draft deal
reached by officials and lawmakers on a Basel bank capital law.  For more, click here.  Banks Entering U.K. Won’t Need Systemic Buffer, Turner Says  Banks entering the U.K. market will be allowed to run on
less capital than more established banks because they are less
likely to be systemically important to the country’s financial
system, Adair Turner, chairman of the U.K. Financial Services
Authority, told lawmakers in London yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 