-- Simpson-Bowles Blues Brothers Tour Going Who Knows Where
-- B y   J o s h u a   G r e e n
-- 2013-02-28T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/simpson-bowles-blues-brothers-tour-going-who-knows-where.html
One chilly afternoon last December,
former Wyoming Senator Alan Simpson slipped out of a car and
into the studio on New York’s West Side where Jon Stewart tapes
“The Daily Show.”  At 6-foot-7, Simpson is hard to miss. He’s all the more
recognizable, even to the hipsters and tourists queuing for the
show, for having spent the last two years as the Republican
partner of Democrat Erskine Bowles, Bill Clinton’s former White
House chief of staff, with whom he has toured the country almost
nonstop, warning of America’s impending fiscal doom.  Simpson, 81, and Bowles, 67, became unlikely celebrities
after failing to carry off one of President  Barack Obama ’s more
ambitious first-term endeavors. In 2009 he appointed them to
lead his National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and
Reform, a bipartisan group that was supposed to produce a
“grand bargain” both parties could endorse to bring the
country’s long-term spending and revenue into alignment. Their
deliberations yielded a plan that reduced the  federal deficit  by
$4 trillion over 10 years, mainly by cutting Medicare, Medicaid,
Social Security, and the military budget; raising taxes mostly
on high earners; and curtailing popular-but-expensive tax breaks
such as the one for home mortgage interest.  It went nowhere. The members of the Simpson-Bowles
commission, as it became known, deadlocked, and the report they
produced couldn’t muster the support necessary to force Congress
to vote on it. Obama declined to endorse the commission’s plan.  Speech Circuit  Rather than shelve it, the co-chairmen hit the road. They
found an audience eager to pay $40,000 a pop to hear the
prescriptions that Congress and the president ignored and savor
Simpson’s blunt (and often profane) descriptions of  Washington 
ineptitude. Today, Simpson and Bowles circulate in a gilded
world of financial conferences, corporate speeches, and
television studios, propounding their solution to the country’s
fiscal predicament. They’ve made themselves Washington’s best-
known Jeremiahs, a role they plainly enjoy.  “I’ve never seen two D.C. insiders who spend as much time
together and seem to like each other as much as these two do,”
says Maya MacGuineas, president of the Committee for a
Responsible Federal Budget and a close ally. “They’ll sneak off
after these intense policy sessions and hang out together, just
the two of them, even though they’ve been traveling the country
four or five days a week. It’s a fiscal bromance.”  Math, Not Myth  The purpose of this bromance -- at least in its public-
theater aspect -- is to sound the alarm.  “We’ve been on the road, probably visited 500,000 people
since we turned in the report,” Simpson says when we meet at
the Four Seasons Hotel before The Daily Show. “We tell ’em,
‘Pull up a chair, we don’t do bulls--- or mush. We’ll tell you
where your country is heading. We do math, not myths. So listen
up.’”  Audiences get an earful about Washington profligacy, the
political system’s cowardice, and the need to take an ax to a
whole array of supposedly sacrosanct programs. But mostly
they’re told that without a long-overdue budget reckoning
America is headed for disaster.  What distinguishes Simpson is his willingness to play the
role of entertainer. On the day we met, a group of young anti-
deficit activists calling themselves the  Can Kicks Back  released
a Web video of him dancing Gangnam-style and rapping about the
debt.  Simpson’s Spiel  On The Daily Show, Simpson uncorked his well-practiced
shtick. “I tell ya,” he wheezed, at the end of a long rant on
rising health-care costs, “if you think this can work when you
got to take care of a 3-year-old with a pre-existing condition
who’ll live to be 60; when one person in the U.S. weighs more
than the other two [and has] diabetes A and B; when guys choose
to do booze, drugs, and the whole works and you’ve gotta pay for
them -- if you think you’re gonna get ’em into a preventive
health program, well, the drinks are on me!”  Stewart broke up laughing. “Thank God you’re a senator,”
he said, “because otherwise you’re just a dude in a chair by
the highway yelling at people!”  All of this publicity has helped Simpson and Bowles
generate attention beyond the narrow world of policy wonks. A
group they co-founded, the Campaign to Fix the Debt, has signed
up dozens of chief executive officers and ex-politicians (as
well as this magazine’s owner, Michael Bloomberg) and raised $43
million. Simpson takes grief from critics for his hefty speaking
fees and expensive lifestyle, which he didn’t forgo while
serving on the president’s commission.  “I can’t wad my ass into the economy seat, so I pay the
spread to get into first class,” he says.  Gaining Converts  Yet all that time spent among business elites has won him
converts. You’re now as likely to hear a lecture on the debt
from Honeywell CEO David Cote or Aetna CEOMark Bertolini (both
members of Fix the Debt) as from a seasoned Washington activist
such as MacGuineas.  By having its famous members privately lobby Congress and
Obama while at the same time running a national PR campaign to
awaken the slumbering masses, the group aimed to create a public
clamor to force through the changes the president’s commission
and its many predecessors could not. The conceit was that
Simpson, Bowles, and their allies were wise enough to both solve
the long-term deficit problem and sell their remedy to the
country.  No Deals  Today that confidence looks misplaced. Deficit hawks have
been the biggest losers in the budget battles they were counting
on to provide the momentum for a grand bargain. Congress and the
White House have blown through a series of opportunities to
reach a broad budget deal: the April 2011 clash that threatened
to shut down the government; the July 2011  debt ceiling 
meltdown; the December 2011 supercommittee that couldn’t agree
on how to reduce the deficit; the year-end fiscal cliff. Now,
another zero-sum showdown is at hand, this time over the $1.2
trillion “sequestration,” or automatic federal spending cuts,
that kick in on March 1.  Simpson and Bowles see this deadline as a last-ditch
opening for a big deal. These indiscriminate, across-the-board
reductions -- designed to be so unthinkable that lawmakers would
come up with something better -- are “stupid, stupid, stupid,”
Bowles said at a news conference on Feb. 18. Yet he conceded the
odds of Democrats and Republicans agreeing to raise significant
 tax revenue  and curb entitlement spending are vanishingly slim.  ‘Life Support’  “The idea of a grand bargain is at best on life support,”
he said. After two years of spreading their gospel, Simpson and
Bowles are confounded by the lack of urgency. They aren’t wrong
about the long-term problem. So why won’t the country heed their
warning?  The push to get the U.S. to address its long-term debt
began in the years after the Vietnam War, when the economic
growth that followed World War II began to sputter. A handful of
activists spied trouble on the horizon. “Once growth in the
United States began to slow, it sharpened the realization that
government probably could not afford all of the commitments it
had made,” says Allen Schick, a political scientist and budget
theorist at the University of  Maryland .  One of the first to spot this problem was Peter Peterson,
the Commerce secretary under President Richard Nixon and CEO of
Lehman Brothers who went on to co-found the Blackstone Group.
What concerned Peterson initially was the rapid growth of Social
Security as a share of the federal budget, a trend he feared was
unsustainable and threatened not just the program but the whole
economy.  Famed Article  He sounded the alarm in a famous 1982 article in the New
York Review of Books (“The Coming Crash of Social Security”),
and in the process established himself as the archetypal deficit
scold urging immediate political action. “When I was at Lehman,
I set up a group called the Bipartisan Budget Appeal, and we’d
run double-page newspaper ads saying, ‘Time to get on with
it,’” Peterson, now 86, recalls.  The following year, in what remains the model of bipartisan
grand bargaining, Congress did get on with it, extending Social
Security’s solvency through a combination of tax increases and
benefit cuts negotiated in private by party luminaries.  But the trick wouldn’t repeat. In 1987, Peterson wrote an
Atlantic Monthly cover story admonishing politicians for
disregarding the unchecked growth of entitlement spending,
particularly Medicare, which he predicted would eventually
stifle the economy. He correctly identified the two main cost
drivers: an aging populace and what he called health-care
hyperinflation.  Unheeded Message  “Any way one looks at it,” he wrote, “the arithmetic is
cruel and inescapable.”  This time, his call for benefit cuts and higher taxes went
unheeded. “When you’re a scold,” says Schick, “people have a
way of turning off their hearing aid.”  Since then, the temptation to fix the problem all at once
has seduced presidents and public intellectuals alike. Long
before Obama set up the Simpson-Bowles commission, Clinton
established the Kerrey-Danforth commission, which shared the
same goal, offered many of the same prescriptions, even shared
Simpson as a member -- and met the same fate.  “We came right at the entitlement programs,” Simpson
recalls, “which just pissed everybody off, and nobody did
anything. Because when you mess with entitlements you get the
emotional response that you’re” -- here he makes a face and
pretends to cry -- “hurting seniors, precious seniors, poor old
ladies.” He snorts in disgust.  Think Tanks  These public efforts were matched by private ones:
bipartisan think tank collaborations such as the Domenici-Rivlin
Plan, the Galston-MacGuineas Plan, the  Concord Coalition’s  Zero-
Deficit Plan, and on and on. What they shared, besides a
balanced budget, was an inability to generate much interest.  That was true even though polls routinely suggest that it
shouldn’t be. A recent  Gallup  survey found that 84 percent of
Americans think it is “extremely important” or “very
important” to deal with the  federal budget  deficit -- a
percentage that’s remained more or less constant for decades.
Concern never translates into public pressure, because most
Americans value the benefits they receive from the government
more than they fear the deficit.  “There’s a little Thomas Jefferson inside all of us -- we
like the idea of cutting government,” says Alan Blinder, a
former Federal Reserve vice chairman, who examines the long-term
debt in his new book, After the Music Stopped: The Financial
Crisis, the Response, and the Work Ahead. “But the main thing
in all of us is Alexander Hamilton: When you get down to brass
tacks, we want the government to have an army, build roads, and
regulate the banks.”  Commission’s Aim  The Simpson-Bowles commission was designed to short-circuit
this reluctance by requiring Congress to vote on its
recommendations if a supermajority of the commission endorsed
them. To ensure the effort was fully resourced, Peterson -- who
has pledged to devote his $1 billion fortune to the cause of
deficit reduction and told me he’s already spent $500 million --
kicked in $800,000. In the end, a bipartisan majority -- 11 of
the 18 members -- voted for the recommendations, shy of the 14
needed to compel congressional action.  The White House, which would later tout its own deficit
measures as being “informed by the principles of Simpson-
Bowles,” declined to endorse the actual plan in 2010. The
president’s advisers calculated they’d be better off letting
House Republicans pass a budget first and then attacking it as
draconian, according to two senior administration officials, who
asked not to be named talking about private conversations.  Obama’s Concerns  “We expected them to embrace it and were surprised that
they didn’t,” says Bowles, who met privately with Obama after
the report came out. “He couldn’t have been any clearer. He
felt that if he embraced it he would be savaged by the left
because we had significant reforms to the entitlement programs.
And he thought if he endorsed it, Republicans would immediately
reject it.”  Simpson, who usually adopts a pox-on-both-your-houses
approach, harbors a grudge against Obama for not championing the
report. Although withholding the baroque insults he deploys
against lesser politicians, he makes clear that he and Bowles
both believe Bill Clinton would have acted differently. Simpson
does an impression of Bowles imitating his old boss: “Well, ah
think this is a great idea! Ahm gonna put my arms around this
thing, this was mah idea from the beginning!” Was he saying
Clinton would have endorsed it? “Yup,” Simpson replies.
“That’s what Erskine says.”  Fiscal Cliff  In early December, Simpson and the deficit hawks looked as
if they still might pull out a big victory after the 2012
elections. Obama was back in the Oval Office, Republicans had
held on to the House, and the country was hurtling toward the
fiscal cliff. Neither party could resolve matters on its own
terms.  So Obama and House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio
Republican, had rekindled their talks to strike a grand bargain
and suddenly seemed to be making progress. With the election
settled, the political logic made sense: Republicans couldn’t
prevent tax increases, but agreeing to a broad deal that cut
entitlement programs and reduced corporate tax rates would be a
major achievement they could brag about. Democrats would secure
substantial new revenue from the rich, while preserving tax cuts
and entitlements for the poor and middle class. A procession of
CEOs swept through Washington to sanctify the wisdom of such a
plan.  Looking and sounding like a Dickens apparition -- the Ghost
of Fiscal Disasters to Come -- Simpson was all over television,
darkly warning of what would befall the country if it didn’t
seize this opportunity. Privately, he was convinced his moment
had arrived.  Required Cuts  “This one is different for one singular reason: We owe $16
trillion,” he says. “I’ve never seen anything like it in 81
years of life. They’ve dug their own snare!” He was referring
to Congress and the $1.2 trillion sequestration cuts that were
then about to bite.  “They put it there because they knew they’d never be
stupid enough to let that happen. Well, every day that goes by
proves that they are. So that’s the difference right there. It
doesn’t matter whether we go over the cliff or under the cliff.
These guys have put their nuts in a vise.”  Disappointed ‘Hawks’  The last-minute deal Congress struck to avoid the cliff was
a huge disappointment to the deficit hawks. It barely put a dent
in the long-term debt and didn’t touch entitlement programs or
tax loopholes. Worse, it disrupted the factors that had aligned
in favor of a grand bargain. By raising $600 billion through
higher tax rates on the wealthy, the deal Obama signed on Jan. 2
removed the main incentive for Republicans to negotiate.  “If the revenue issue is settled, it defeats the ability
to do a grand bargain,” said Judd Gregg, the former Republican
senator from New Hampshire and a Fix the Debt board member, just
after the election. Sequestration was postponed until March 1.
But rather than serve as a catalyst for a big deal, the cuts
seem unlikely to yield any deal at all -- at least for now. The
pressure from across the country never materialized.  The enduring fantasy of deficit hawks like Simpson is that
when the big players finally get serious, they’ll huddle in some
backroom, roll up their sleeves, and hash out the deal that all
right-thinking people know must be made, just as they did in
1983 with Social Security. They’ll be principled, spread the
pain evenly. They won’t spare the rich or the old ladies.
They’ll put the books in order. “We effectively hit everybody
in America,” Simpson says. “That’s what makes our plan so
tough.”  Bottom-Line Thinking  It’s no accident that CEOs are the one group that Simpson
and Bowles have managed to convince. The surest way to fix the
debt is to make deep cuts now, even if that hurts people who
depend on government help. That bottom-line way of thinking
would make intrinsic sense to a chief executive, who, if
presented with a similar situation in his own business, would
surely act before the problem spiraled out of control.  But this approach to politics, like Simpson and many of his
cohorts, hails from an era that has little connection with how
Washington works anymore. For all the probity and wisdom of the
eminences who fill the rosters of groups such as Fix the Debt,
they tend to be ex-politicians, years removed from the fray --
Simpson (retired 1997), Senator Sam Nunn (retired 1997), Senator
Pete Domenici (retired 2009), Representative Vic Fazio (retired
1999). These figures carry weight with editorial boards, network
anchors, and pundits, not with Congress or the White House. When
a version of the Simpson-Bowles plan came before the House last
April, it got crushed 382-38.  Political Energy  Today all the energy in politics is at the grass roots. The
anti-tax Tea Party activists and tech-savvy Obama legions are
the real forces shaping America. Politicians and businessmen are
usually seen as the villains. When I met Peterson in January,
the New York Times had just published a story noting that people
in both parties agreed that the Campaign to Fix the Debt had had
no impact at all on the deficit talks. Peterson hadn’t known
about the story and was disappointed when he found out.  The Simpson-Bowles roadshow and Fix the Debt campaign were
intended to succeed where the commission did not. They’d lobby
Congress from the inside to persuade members to adopt their
solution. At the same time, they would work the outside,
appealing directly to the public. Neither strategy has
delivered.  Meaningless Credentials  The inside approach has found little traction in the
Capitol, where the kind of high-minded bipartisanship Simpson
and Bowles are selling is considered political suicide. Anti-tax
Republicans, not consensus-minded wise men, have led the budget
battles of the last three years. Their overriding goal is stop
tax increases rather than shrink the deficit. To these
Republicans, Simpson’s party credentials are meaningless.
Conservatives in Congress regard him as a dinosaur who
epitomizes the moderate establishment they’ve sworn to defeat.  “His name never comes up,” says Grover Norquist, the
anti-tax activist. “Simpson’s sole purpose is giving cover to
Democrats to be for something that reduces the deficit.”  On Feb. 18, Bowles and Simpson unveiled a new plan in
Washington that is a tacit concession to this reality. It shifts
the terms of a grand bargain considerably to the right by
jettisoning much of the tax revenue they had originally proposed
in exchange for deeper spending cuts. Bowles says this reflects
the current midpoint between Democrats and Republicans. Bowing
to Republicans, though, won’t bring support from Democrats,
whose president was just re-elected after campaigning against
Republican fiscal policy.  “No one asked them to be political strategists,” says
Jared Bernstein, a former top economic adviser to Vice President
Joe Biden. “The best elements of their first plan -- balancing
revenues and cuts, protecting low-income programs -- get thrown
out the window in their new plan.”  Job Worries  The outside strategy to persuade the public has also fallen
short. It depended on scaring people into believing that a
crisis is imminent. For all their resources and the attention
they garnered, they haven’t managed to do that. Millions of
Americans are more anxious about jobs, stagnant wages, slow
growth, and a host of other problems. Simpson’s gleeful attacks
on safety-net programs like Medicare, while perhaps rational
from a budgeting standpoint, can’t have done much to win them
over.  “We have two parallel discussions going on in the country
that need to be merged: growing inequality and the deficit,”
says Barney Frank, the Massachusetts Democrat and former
chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, who recently
retired from Congress. “You can’t pretend those are parallel
lines that never touch, because what you do to the deficit
affects inequality. Kicking the can down the road is bad. But
kicking the asses of the poor is even worse, and that’s what
they’re doing.”  ‘Debt Bomb’  Simpson responds to most criticism by insisting that a
“debt bomb” could blow the nation’s finances to smithereens at
any moment. Testifying before the Senate two years ago, he
raised the specter of just such an interest rate shock. “I
think it will come before two years,” he predicted.  It hasn’t. Markets are lending to the U.S. at historically
low rates. For all the damage they’ve done, the budget crises of
the past few years have produced $2.5 trillion in deficit
savings. The latest Congressional Budget Office forecast shows
that the deficit is falling. This year it will shrink to $845
billion, or 5.3 percent of gross domestic product -- the lowest
figure since 2008 and nearly half its peak of 10.1 percent in
2009. By 2015, it will fall below 3 percent, a level most
economists consider safe.  Slowing Costs  Even health-care inflation, the biggest driver of long-term
debt, has suddenly and unexpectedly slowed, a trend that, if it
continues, will make balancing the budget much easier than
anyone anticipated even a few years ago. Already, Medicare cost
projections have fallen $500 billion for the period covered by
the original Simpson-Bowles plan.  “The hair-on-fire brigade wants to start gutting social
programs before we really know what’s going on,” says Biden
adviser Bernstein.  All these encouraging developments don’t mean Simpson and
Bowles are wrong. Although the deficit is currently shrinking,
the same CBO forecast says it will begin to soar in 2023, for
the same reasons Peterson identified a quarter century ago: The
population is aging and health-care costs are rising. If that
trend continues unchecked, Medicare will eventually eat up the
budget.  ‘Magic Moment’  It’s no exaggeration to say that fixing medical inflation
would solve the long-term debt problem. The trouble is that
nobody is quite sure how to do this, or even if it’s possible.
This is why Simpson, Bowles, and their allies are so adamant
about acting now. “I thought this was our magic moment,”
Bowles laments.  That moment now looks as if it may pass as just one more
disappointing chapter in the long quest to straighten out the
country’s finances. The fate of the grand bargain will likely be
determined over the next six to eight weeks, as sequestration
hits and funding for the government runs out on March 27. If
Congress muddles through with still more short-term fixes, the
chance for major reform may vanish for years. Washington will
move on to immigration, gun control, and the next election.
Simpson-Bowles will be forgotten.  If, however, the economy stalls, health-care inflation
picks up again, or any number of other scenarios unfold, the
plan may be resurrected -- or as Simpson once put it, the
“cadaver will rise from the crypt.”  “Nobody knows when, but at some point the markets will
force us to deal with this,” says Bowles. “And when they do,
there’s just not that many other solutions.” In that event,
Simpson and Bowles will win Washington’s standard consolation
prize -- having failed to fix the problem, they’ll at least be
able to say they were right.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Green in Washington at 
 jgreen120@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wes Kosova at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net  