-- Singaporeans Turn to Berkeley’s London Homes on Currency
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r   a n d   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-03-01T10:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/singaporeans-turn-to-berkeley-s-london-property-on-currency-gain.html
Berkeley Group Holdings Plc (BKG) , the
U.K.’s second-largest homebuilder by market value, is benefiting
from  Singapore ’s efforts to cool its property market as new
restrictions and a weak pound attract investors to  London .  The island nation is the biggest overseas buyer of homes
constructed by Berkeley, which sells 40 percent of its
properties to people living outside the U.K., Managing Director
Rob Perrins said in an interview in Singapore yesterday. Hong
Kong and  Malaysia  are the next-biggest markets for the company
based near the U.K. capital.  “People like property, it’s bricks and mortar, especially
at the moment with the  Singapore dollar  so strong against the
pound,” Perrins said. That’s “obviously attracting investors
into London as well,” he said.  Singaporeans are looking abroad for investments as the
local currency rose to a record against the pound, making home
purchases cheaper, and as they face government measures at home
to rein in property prices that have reached an all-time high.
Berkeley is opening its second office in  Asia  in Singapore’s
central business district of Marina Bay Financial Centre to
cater to increasing demand, Perrins said.  ‘More Momentum’  London’s housing market is outperforming the rest of the
U.K. and in recent months has seen a “marked pick-up” in
momentum, according to the  Royal Institution  of Chartered
Surveyors. An index of U.K. house prices rose to the highest in
2 1/2 years in December as measures to boost credit made
property brokers more optimistic, London-based RICS said in
January.  Berkeley, which has offices in Hong Kong and Dubai, is
seeking to attract more international buyers, who tend to make
purchases earlier in the development process than U.K.
customers, Perrins said. About 70 percent of overseas buyers
purchase a property in London as an investment, while the rest
seek a second home or a residence for their children studying
there, he said.  “Singapore investors are very savvy,” Perrins said. “A
lot of Singaporeans know London better than many Londoners do.
They do a lot of research before they buy.”  After U.K. buyers, Singaporeans bought more new residential
properties in central London than any other nationality last
year, accounting for 23 percent of transactions, broker Knight
Frank LLP said in a January report.  Canary Wharf  Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong is trying to curb
property-market speculation. A 1,636-square-foot (152-square-
meter) condominium in the Marina Bay financial district sold for
S$4.4 million ($3.6 million) in November, government figures
show. A unit about the same size in London’s  Canary Wharf  was
priced at 2.3 million pounds ($3.5 million), broker Foxtons Ltd.
said.  Berkeley’s first-half profit rose 45 percent as the company
sold more homes with wider margins, the Cobham, England-based
company said on Dec. 7. Revenue rose 69 percent to 686 million
pounds. It sold 1,927 homes in the first half of 2012 compared
with 1,506 a year earlier at an average price of 335,000 pounds.
That compares with an average selling price of 254,000 pounds in
the first six months of the previous fiscal year.  Stronger Dollar  The Singapore dollar strengthened on Feb. 25 against the
British pound to the highest on record dating back to 1981,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The dollar traded at
S$1.8773 per pound today, little changed from yesterday when it
weakened 0.2 percent.  Currency fluctuations are helping drive sales of apartments
at Battersea Power Station, according to Battersea Power Station
Development Co.  “The currency is huge,” Rob Tincknell, the company’s
chief executive officer, said in an interview at the property.
“Look at the last few weeks, they’ve made a fortune.”  More than half of development’s apartments have been sold
in overseas markets including Singapore, Malaysia and  Hong Kong ,
Tincknell said. Around 30 of the 860 apartments making up the
project’s first phase are unsold, he said.  Singapore earlier this week announced plans to raise
property levies for luxury homeowners and increase duties on
investment properties that are vacant or being rented out.  Borrowing Limits  Those steps came after officials introduced a seventh round
of real-estate cooling measures in January, which included
limits on how much buyers seeking a second mortgage can borrow
relative to the value of their properties. People applying for a
second or subsequent home loan will also have to pay a 25
percent cash down payment, from 10 percent previously.  “We landed Singapore the day after the measures were
introduced,” Tincknell said. “It was the talk of town. They
are trying to slow down that market considerably.”  The median price per square meter for condominiums jumped
to S$11,056 in the fourth quarter, the highest in Urban
Redevelopment Authority data dating back to 1998.  Berkeley has invested about 1 billion pounds in the U.K.
 property market  since 2007 and now builds about 15 percent of
all London homes, he said.  “Confidence is returning,” Perrins said. “People like
property as they see it as an inflation hedge.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  