-- Slovenia Replaces Premier Amid Battle to Avoid Bailout
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c   a n d   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-02-28T10:44:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/slovenia-replaces-premier-amid-battle-to-avoid-bailout.html
Slovenian lawmakers elected Alenka
Bratusek to replace Prime Minister Janez Jansa to quell a
political crisis as the Alpine nation battles a recession and
the threat of becoming the sixth euro member to need a bailout.  Parliament in Ljubljana voted late yesterday 55-33 in favor
of ousting Jansa, whose coalition government crumbled after he
was accused of corruption, and appointed Bratusek as the
country’s first female premier. Bratusek, 42, has 14 days to
have a Cabinet approved or early elections will be called.  “Now the focus is whether she can form a working
majority,” said Tim Ash, chief emerging-markets strategist at
Standard Bank Plc in  London . “It’s going to be difficult” as
she will have to convince other parties “that she is pro-reform
and has a clear plan on bank reform.”  The first post-communist nation to adopt the euro wants to
avoid a bailout as its banking industry struggles with bad loans
and unemployment rises during a recession sparked by the debt
crisis. Jansa joins the legion of leaders across  Europe  who were
toppled by the waves of the economic crisis that started more
than four years ago. Bulgarian Premier Boyko Borissov stepped
down Feb. 19 after violent street protests.  The main stock market index SBITOP gained 2.56 percent to
620.78 points by 10:11 a.m. in Ljubljana, its biggest increase
since Jan. 4, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Falling Yields  The yield on Slovenia’s dollar-denominated bonds maturing
in 2022 dropped to 5.263 percent as of 11:05 a.m. in Ljubljana
from 5.322 percent yesterday. The cost of insuring the debt with
five-year credit-default swaps, which rise as perceptions of
creditworthiness worsen, narrowed by half-point to 259.67.  Slovenia plunged into political uncertainty after the anti-
corruption agency accused Jansa of failing to declare all his
private assets, prompting his coalition partners to demand his
resignation and increasing the prospect of an early vote.
Regular elections are planned for 2015. Jansa has denied the
allegations of wrong-doing.  Bratusek’s nomination as caretaker prime minister doesn’t
ensure the crisis will end. Citizens’ List party leader Gregor
Virant said in a letter published on his party’s website Feb. 22
that his party may opt for early elections since the proposed
scenario of a caretaker government and its program “are not
good.”  Budget Leader  Bratusek, who for six years led the Finance Ministry’s
division for the state budget, told Parliament the priorities of
a temporary government would be balancing public finances after
the deficit reached almost a quarter of the full-year target of
1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) in January and strengthening the
public sector’s role as “a driver” of economic growth.  The Adriatic nation that was the first post-communist
country to adopt the euro, needs to continue efforts to fix its
ailing banks. Slovenia faces a 2 percent decline in gross
domestic product this year, the European Commission said in a
Feb. 22 report, and has to ratify neighboring  Croatia ’s bid to
join the European Union on July 1.  Jansa’s government drafted a 4 billion-euro bank
recapitalization plan that would take up bad loans from lenders.  “The least bad outcome from the market’s point of view
might actually be early elections, even if the knee-jerk
reaction is likely to be negative,” said Abbas Ameli-Renani, a
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in London. “A pre-
election coalition around Bratusek would likely just prolong
political uncertainty in Slovenia as the coalition is unlikely
to last more than a year.”  Recession Deepens  Slovenia’s economic contraction continued in the fourth
quarter as exports to Europe eased and consumption slumped
because of the government’s austerity drive. Gross domestic
product fell 3 percent from a year earlier after a 3.3 percent
drop in the July-September period, the statistics office in
Ljubljana said today.  The banking industry, struggling under the burden of bad
loans, reported a pretax loss of 664 million euros for 2012,
according to central bank data.  Standard and Poor’s cut Slovenia’s credit rating on Feb. 13
one level to A-, on par with Poland and  Malaysia , citing the
government’s announced support for state-owned banks, which will
lead to a higher debt ratio than previously forecast.  Public Debt  Slovenia’s public debt rose to about 48 percent of GDP last
year from 16 percent in 2008, a year after the former Yugoslav
nation adopted the euro. Government support of the state-
controlled banks at the level likely to be needed will increase
the debt ratio to 59 percent at the end of 2013, S&P said.  “Slovenia is stuck in a very difficult situation, from
which a snap election is not really a workable outcome,” Petr Grishin, chief economist at VTB Capital in Moscow, said by e-
mail. “For the bond market, a clear positive would be if a new
government at least picks up the sovereign holding and bad banks
projects at the speed of Jansa’s extinct Cabinet, but this is
hardly possible in this political landscape.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net ;
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  