-- Slovenia’s Economic Contraction Continues on Weak Consumption
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-02-28T09:36:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/slovenia-s-economic-contraction-continues-on-weak-consumption.html
Slovenia’s economic contraction
continued in the last quarter of 2012 on slumping consumption
and shrinking exports to  Europe .  Gross domestic product fell 3 percent from a year earlier
after a 3.3 percent drop in the July-September period, the
statistics office in Ljubljana said on its website today. The
figure was better than the median forecast of seven economists
in a Bloomberg survey for a decrease of 3.5 percent.  “The economy will be dragged lower by most components of
GDP, including government and private consumption, as well as
investment,” Abbas Ameli-Renani, an economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in  London , said by e-mail yesterday. The only
boost will come from goods shipped abroad, though “a
contraction in exports for the first time since 2009 shouldn’t
come as a surprise given the absence of a bounce-back in
Slovenia’s main trading partners.”  The Alpine nation’s lawmakers yesterday elected Alenka Bratusek as prime minister, replacing  Janez Jansa , whose
government crumbled amid a corruption scandal and demonstrations
against austerity moves such as spending cuts. Slovenia is
trying to avoid becoming the sixth euro member to need a bailout
as its banking industry struggles because of bad loans amid a
recession sparked by the debt crisis.  The economy will continue to contract in 2013, probably by
“1.7 percent” for many reasons including “political
problems,” Darja Mocnik of the the Slovenian Chamber of
Commerce, said in e-mailed comments. “Political bickering has
great negative consequences on the economy” which are difficult
to assess.  The economy will shrink the most in the European Union this
year after Greece and Cyprus on weakening investment and
faltering domestic consumption, the European Commission said in
a Feb. 22 report. GDP will decline 2 percent this year after an
estimated 2 percent contraction last year, the EU’s executive
arm said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  