-- SodaStream Overtakes Green Mountain on Outlook: Israel Overnight
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-02-28T15:32:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/sodastream-overtakes-green-mountain-on-outlook-israel-overnight.html
SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA) , the
Israeli maker of home soda machines, is beating  Green Mountain
Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR)  in the stock market after trailing last
year on prospects new partnerships will boost sales.  Shares of Airport City, Israel-based company, rose 4.6
percent to $48.50 yesterday in New York, extending a gain of 7.6
percent during the past year. Green Mountain has dropped 30
percent during the same period, after outperforming SodaStream
by 61 percentage points in the previous 12-month period. The
 Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the largest Israeli
companies traded in New York climbed 0.6 to 87.59.  Partner
Communications Co. (PTNR)  fell after 2012 revenue sank 20 percent.  SodaStream said yesterday that a partnership with  Ocean
Spray Cranberries Inc. (OCESO)  will allow consumers to mix the co-
branded juice blends with its carbonation systems. The
announcement comes two weeks after the company said its
sparkling water dispensers will be available in refrigerators
built by Samsung Electronics Co.  Green Mountain , the maker of
Keurig brewers and single-serve pods, forecast this month fiscal
second-quarter revenue that  trailed estimates  as competition
increases.  “The price divergence really came from the fundamental
perspective in terms of Soda being perceived as able to capture
a much bigger unexploited market than Green Mountain is,” Josef Schuster, the founder of Chicago-based Ipox Schuster LLC, said
in a phone interview yesterday. “The momentum for SodaStream is
much more to the upside in terms of earnings outlook and sales
growth. Green Mountain has not really delivered.”  Both Green Mountain and SodaStream benefit from the so-
called razor-blade model of retailing, where profits rely on
customers repeatedly buying complementary products such as gas
tanks, flavor pouches and coffee pods.  Cranberry-Grape  SodaStream’s Ocean Spray products, whose initial flavors
include regular and diet versions of cranberry, cranberry-grape
and cranberry-raspberry, are expected to be available during the
second half of the year in the U.S. and  Canada . The company
already has agreements with brands including Country Time,
Crystal Light and Kool-Aid.  “Those brands helped sell people on the machine itself,”
Jim Chartier, an analyst at Monness, Crespi, Hardt & Co. who
rates SodaStream buy, said by phone yesterday from  New York .
“It helps create awareness for the category and legitimizes it,
especially for people in the U.S. who don’t know the SodaStream
brand. They trust those flavor brands, and are therefore more
willing to trust SodaStream.”  ‘Outsized Growth’  The company received 47 percent of 2012 sales from western
 Europe  and 36 percent from the Americas, according to company
data.  SodaStream  reported  fourth-quarter revenue of $132.9
million on Feb. 20, beating the $121.8 million median estimate
of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The company sees 2013
revenue and adjusted net income improving by 25 percent, with
half of the sales growth coming from the U.S.  Green Mountain, based in Waterbury,  Vermont , is seeing more
competition from  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , which recently introduced its
own single-serve machine, the Verismo. Brewer shipments will
decline “slightly” this quarter, compared with a year earlier,
Chief Financial Officer Frances Rathke said on a conference call
on Feb. 6.  SodaStream and Green Mountain “tend to attract similar
types of investors who are looking for high momentum stories
that have no clear direct peer and some time to have the market
to themselves,” Marc Riddick, an analyst at Williams Capital
Group LP who rates Green Mountain buy, said yesterday by phone
in New York. As Green Mountain encounters more competition, some
investors will “move onto something else that can provide
outsized growth, stories like SodaStream.”  Hair Removal  Partner,  Israel ’s No. 2 mobile provider, slipped 0.9
percent to $5.60 yesterday after it reported a 20 percent drop
in 2012 revenue. Shares traded in  Tel Aviv  fell 1.6 percent to
20.56 shekels, or the equivalent of $5.55, at the close today.
The benchmark TA-25 equities index gained 0.5 percent.  Chief executive officer Haim Romano predicted that trends
in Israel’s competitive cellular market seen in the last year
and in recent months will continue into the first quarter of
2013, according to a transcript of yesterday’s earnings call.
The company was cut to neutral from buy at Israel Brokerage and
Investments Ltd.  Syneron Medical Ltd. (ELOS) , based in Yokneam Elit, Israel, rose
1.3 percent to $10.17 yesterday, halting five days of losses.
The aesthetic medical product maker’s home hair removal system
will be available at retailers including  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN) 
beginning in May, according to a statement yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  