-- Sony Sells Tokyo Offices for $1.2 Billion in Turnaround Plan
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2013-02-28T09:03:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/sony-to-book-41-billion-yen-gain-from-sale-of-building-in-tokyo.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  sold a building in Tokyo
for 111.1 billion yen ($1.2 billion), its third major asset sale
this year, as the company strives to avoid a fifth straight
annual loss.  The world’s No. 3 TV maker will book a 41 billion-yen gain
this quarter from selling the building in Shinagawa ward,
according to a statement today. The company will lease the
offices from the new owners, a group led by  Nippon Building Fund
Inc. (8951)   Sony agreed earlier this year to sell  New York  offices and
a stake in a medical-data company as Chief Executive Officer
 Kazuo Hirai  turns to asset sales to help meet a goal of posting
20 billion yen of  net income  in the year ending March 31. The
Tokyo-based company’s TV and mobile phone-making operations are
losing money because of competition from Samsung Electronics Co.
and Apple Inc.  “This isn’t about the company’s core business and is only
a one-time profit gain,” Keita Wakabayashi, an analyst at Mito
Securities Co. in Tokyo, said by phone today. “This won’t
likely change investors’ views.”  Asset Sales  Sony last month agreed to sell its 37-story New York
headquarters to Chetrit Group for $1.1 billion. The company
expects a profit of about $685 million from the deal. The
electronics maker also predicted a 115 billion-yen gain
following the sale of a stake in  M3 Inc. (2413)  The largely paper gain
mainly derives from a revaluation of Sony’s remaining stake in
the health-care data provider.  Hirai also agreed to sell a chemical unit and stakes in
display-making ventures as he sharpens Sony’s focus on mobile
devices, games and digital imaging. The company reiterated its
full-year profit forecast of 20 billion yen earlier this month.
The target included expected gains from asset sales.  “Sony has identified certain assets for possible sale as
part of an initiative to transform its business portfolio and
reorganize its assets,” the company said in a statement today.
“This sale was conducted as part of that initiative.”  Sony is currently evaluating the impact of the  Tokyo  office
sale and other factors on its earnings forecasts, it said today.
The company made a similar statement last week after the M3
deal.  Xperia Sales  The electronics maker rose 3.6 percent to close at 1,338
yen in Tokyo trading before the announcement. The benchmark
Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained 2.7 percent. Sony has climbed 40
percent this year, buoyed by a  weaker yen  that’s boosting
earnings from overseas.  The manufacturer is heading for a ninth straight annual
loss at its TV-making unit amid slowing demand and rising
competition. Sales of Xperia smartphones and tablets are also
trailing Apple’s iPhones and iPads.  The company’s  credit rating  was cut three levels to BB-, a
non-investment grade, by  Fitch Ratings  in November. Slumping
demand for TVs and weakened economic conditions at home and
overseas will leave the company maker struggling to regain
technological leadership, Fitch said at the time.  Sony raised 150 billion yen selling five-year convertible
 bonds  in November, its first offering of similar securities
since 2003. The inventor of the Walkman, which is cutting 10,000
jobs, lost about 31 percent of its market value last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  