-- Southern Europe Budgets Imperil Baltic Revival, Latvia Says
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-02-28T10:38:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/southern-europe-budgets-imperil-baltic-revival-latvia-says-1-.html
Southern European countries’
reluctance to push ahead with austerity threatens the Baltic
region’s economic rebound earned through cost cuts and wage
decreases, Latvian Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis said.  Southern European economies need austerity to avoid a
downturn that would affect  Latvia  by dragging down its main
trading partners in northern Europe such as  Germany ,  Sweden ,
Denmark and  Poland , Dombrovskis said yesterday in an interview
in the capital, Riga.  “If we see southern European problems also starting to
affect Germany, it will inevitably also affect the region,”
Dombrovskis said. “When financial markets are starting to lose
confidence in your country, there is no other option than to
react to this situation.”  Latvia was the European Union’s fastest-growing economy
last year, followed by its Baltic neighbors Estonia and
 Lithuania . They went through the 27-nation bloc’s deepest
recessions in 2009 as the three governments cut spending and
raised taxes in response to a credit-fueled housing boom turning
to bust.  Latvia will continue to outpace EU economies in 2013, with
a 3.8 percent expansion after last year’s 5.3 percent, the
European Commission said Feb. 22.  The government forecasts 4 percent growth this year, even
after accounting for the risk posed by southern  Europe ,
Dombrovskis said.  “So far, no one has invented a better way” to restore
financial stability and economic growth than the austerity used
in Latvia, he said.  Italian yields surged after elections Feb. 24-25 delivered
a four-way parliamentary split and cast doubt on the stability
of the next government. Spain reported its economy contracted a
quarterly 0.8 percent between October and December, more than
previously estimated and the sixth consecutive three-month
period in which output shrunk.  French government spokeswoman Najat Vallaud-Belkacem told
reporters in Paris yesterday that it’s “not the right moment”
to take extra steps to narrow the budget deficit. The European
Commission is forecasting a gap of 3.7 percent of GDP, compared
with  France ’s earlier target of 3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net ;
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  