-- South Carolina Pension’s Hedge-Fund Bet Trails as Fees Soar
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2013-02-28T20:10:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/south-carolina-hedge-fund-bet-makes-pension-trail-as-fees-soar.html
South Carolina ’s $27 billion pension
dove into private equity and hedge funds in 2008, hoping to
increase returns that were at the bottom tenth of public-
employee retirement funds.  Five years and $1.2 billion in fees later, its annualized
gain of  1.3 percent  still trails the median among public
pension-systems, according to data compiled by Wilshire
Associates Inc. In neighboring  Georgia , the $53.5 billion
teachers’ pension buys only stocks and bonds. It paid money
managers $119.5 million over the same period and its annualized
returns of 2.95 percent were in the top quartile.  U.S. public pensions, confronting an  $800 billion funding
gap  for promises to retirees and chasing 8 percent annual
returns amid slow growth and historically low  interest rates ,
have turned to riskier investments in private equity, hedge
funds and real estate. If the bets don’t pay off, strapped
governments will have to pour cash into pensions instead of
hiring teachers or rebuilding crumbling bridges.  “We pay too much in fees and we earn too little,” said
South Carolina Treasurer Curtis Loftis, a Republican who sits on
the seven-member panel that oversees the fund. “I love
alternative investments. I love  Wall Street . I don’t mind paying
fees. But I want returns.”  Palmetto Portfolio  No state has rushed into the loosely regulated investment
pools as South Carolina has. As of June 30, the pension had
invested 56 percent of its portfolio with firms including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Bridgewater Associates LP and  Apollo
Global Management LLC. (APO)   Diversifying the portfolio reduces risk and provides the
best opportunity to capture higher returns, wrote Reynolds
Williams, chairman of the South Carolina Retirement System
Investment Commission, in a Jan. 13 letter accompanying the
fund’s annual report.  “We view this as a long-horizon strategy for a fund that
has to last a long time,” said Danny Varat, a spokesman for the
commission. “There will be fluctuations, but the commission
believes that it has the appropriate long-term plan.”  Public Scoldings  The strategy has drawn fire from Loftis, elected in 2010
with Tea Party endorsements. He has pushed the commission to get
a handle on management fees, which have soared 143 percent to
almost $300 million annually.  Loftis’s persistent and public criticism of the pension
fund’s management earned him a censure today from the investment
commission “for engaging in false, misleading, and deceitful
rhetoric.”  The resolution, which was approved 5 to 1 with Loftis
opposed, cites articles, radio interviews and blog posts. In
one, he said that some contracts with money managers had fee
structures different than those approved by the commission,
costing the pension “millions of dollars.”  Loftis responded by saying he will continue to press for
transparency and information that the commission majority has
denied him.  “The complexity of our portfolio is uncharted in public-
pension plans,” said Loftis. “We have structural inadequacies
in performing and monitoring and risk analysis. All these things
cost us money.”  Key Component  Investment returns are crucial to funding state and local
government pensions. From 1982 to 2005, returns provided almost
two-thirds of their revenue compared with about a quarter from
employer contributions and an eighth from employees, according
to a  report  by the U.S. Government Accountability Office.  Higher fees charged by  hedge funds  and private equity
firms, which often use borrowed money to buy companies, improve
operations and then resell them, erode those returns.  Meanwhile, the borrowing exposes pensions to bigger risks.  “If state and local pension plans and their sponsors are
unable to properly monitor and manage these new risks, they may
exacerbate recent market losses,” the GAO report said.  Public funds with more than $1 billion in assets had a
median of 10.29 percent of their assets in so-called alternative
investments in the fiscal year ending June 30, according to
Wilshire, a  Santa Monica , California-based consulting firm.
That’s up from 0.62 percent in 2002.  Their Cut  Private equity firms and hedge funds often charge 2 percent
of assets under management, plus 20 percent of profits above a
certain benchmark, a sum much higher than traditional stock and
bond funds.  That “2 and 20” arrangement can reduce a 12 percent
investment gain to 7.6 percent after fees are deducted,
according to the GAO.  Some public pensions, including the $250 billion  California
Public Employees’ Retirement System , the biggest U.S. pension,
have demanded concessions. The discounts have been marginal
because it’s a seller’s market, said Michael Schlachter, a
managing director at Wilshire.  States are hard-pressed to resist, he said.  “There’s probably 10 other clients who are willing to take
their place, he said.  Over the past three years, South Carolina’s private equity
and hedge-fund portfolios returned an annualized 12.3 percent
and 7.8 percent respectively.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 , a  stock index  based on leading
companies publicly traded in the U.S., returned 16.4 percent.  ‘‘You almost didn’t need to be in alternatives the last few
years, given how well some of the public stuff has done,” said
Schlachter.  Good Decade  Over longer periods, pensions that had more in alternative
investments have performed better.  For the 10 years ending June 30, Oregon and Washington
state’s pensions, which allocate 30 and 40 percent of assets
respectively to alternatives, each returned 7.4 percent. That
compared with 6.65 percent for the median pension with assets of
more than $5 billion, according to Wilshire.  South Carolina isn’t the only pension that hasn’t seen its
bets on alternative assets pay off yet.  Maryland ’s  $37 billion pension  increased its holdings in
private equity, hedge funds and real estate to about 29 percent
of its portfolio from 14.6 percent in 2008, according to its
annual report.  Cellar Dweller  Investment fees rose to $229 million in 2012 from $90
million in 2008, a 155 percent increase. Meanwhile, its five-
year annualized returns of 0.8 percent place it in the bottom
three-quarters of public pensions, according to Wilshire’s Trust
Universe Comparison Service.  The median five-year annualized return of a public pension
with more than $5 billion of assets was 1.62 percent, for the
period ending June 30, according to Wilshire.  Maryland would be better off investing its assets in  index
funds , said Jeff Hooke, chairman of the  Maryland Tax Education
Foundation , a nonprofit formed in 1998 to help residents
understand tax and spending policies.  “I don’t think the private equity guys or the hedge fund
guys or the developed common stock and bond guys consistently
beat their indices,” Hooke said. “I think the fees are
generally a waste of money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in  New York  at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  