-- Eskom to Raise S. Africa Power Price 8% Annually for 5 Years
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-02-28T15:20:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/south-africa-s-eskom-to-raise-power-prices-8-a-year-for-5-years.html
Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd., the
supplier of 95 percent of  South Africa ’s electricity, is allowed
to raise prices by an average 8 percent in each of the next five
years, half the annual increase it requested.  Power tariffs will climb to 65.51 South African cents (7
cents) a kilowatt hour starting April, and to 89.13 local cents
by 2018, Cecilia Khuzwayo, head of the country’s energy
regulator, said today in  Pretoria . Eskom had sought 16 percent a
year through March 2018.  “It will certainly present challenges,” Hilary Joffe, a
spokeswoman for Johannesburg-based Eskom, said by phone. “We
need to study the details.”  South Africans  were confronted by average power-price
increases of 25 percent in each of the past six years to help
Eskom finance about 500 billion rand of spending through 2017 to
overcome an electricity shortage. Factories and mines of
companies including  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  were temporarily halted
in 2008 because of the deficit.  Above-inflation gains in tariffs have contributed to lower
profit for mining, agriculture and steel-producing operations in
 Africa ’s biggest economy.  “This is good news from an inflationary perspective,”
Johann Els, an economist at Old Mutual Investment Group, the
country’s largest private money-manager, said in a phone
interview from  Cape Town .  Inflation Target  “It lowers the inflation profile for the second half of
the year,” said Els. “Every bit of lower price increases
helps.” Els estimates price growth will peak at 6 percent in
July compared with 6.3 percent before the tariff announcement.  Inflation eased to 5.4 percent in January, the first month
in which the statistics agency based the rate on data using new
weightings that more than doubled the importance of electricity
to 4.21 percent. The central bank targets inflation of 3 percent
to 6 percent.  “We’re satisfied with the ruling,” said Shaun Nel, a
director at the Energy Intensive User Group of Southern Africa,
whose 32 members include the local units of  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) 
and  ArcelorMittal. (ACL)  “Rising electricity prices have been a
significant contributor to economic slowdown and job losses.”  Gold and platinum producers will still face 860 million
rand ($96 million) more in electricity costs from the eight
percent increase this year,  Mark Cutifani , president of the
Chamber of Mines who becomes chief executive officer of Anglo
American in April, said in a statement.  Borrowing Needs  Eskom and Transnet SOC Ltd., the ports and rail utility,
are the biggest contributors to the nation’s debt requirements.
The National Treasury forecasts borrowing by state-owned
companies to fall to 1.1 percent of gross domestic product by
the year through March 2016 from 2.1 percent this fiscal year,
with financing to be supported by higher cash flows, it said in
the Budget Review released yesterday.  The tariff announcement by the National Energy Regulator of
South Africa “is bad news for Eskom’s balance sheet and for
issuance, where the difference will have to be made up,” Peter Attard Montalto, a London-based economist with Nomura
International Plc, said in an e-mail. “The government is asking
Eskom to accelerate its infrastructure program and take the bulk
of that program on its shoulders, whilst not allowing it to
raise funds through user-pay-principle to fund it.”  Eskom has 195 billion rand of debt and interest
outstanding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “What is key is Eskom must be given an opportunity to
respond and to indicate how they think they are going to make
that an affordable proposition and keep themselves viable,”
Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  told reporters in Cape Town
today. “Clearly, from a business and household point of view a
single-digit increase is welcome.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  