-- Spain’s 2012 Deficit Widened to 10% as Recession Deepened
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2013-02-28T12:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/spain-s-2012-deficit-widened-to-10-as-recession-deepened.html
Spain ’s budget deficit widened to 10
percent of output last year as the pace of economic contraction
accelerated and the government bailed out the banking system.  The bank cleanup contributed 3.3 percentage points to the
shortfall and the central government added 3.8 percentage
points, the Madrid-based Budget Ministry said today.  Gross
domestic product  fell 0.8 percent in the fourth quarter from the
third, when it declined 0.3 percent, separate data showed.  Spain’s recession is extending into the first quarter amid
weak domestic demand, the Bank of Spain said yesterday. The
 International Monetary Fund  expects the economy to shrink about
1.5 percent this year, triple the contraction projected by Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy , who says the economy will return to
growth in the second half.  “The key numbers are consistent with very weak survey
data,” said Guillaume Menuet, a senior economist at Citigroup
Inc. in  London . “It is about time the real economy numbers
match the challenged picture which has become the mark of many
countries across  Europe , including Spain, in the last three to
six months as across-the-board austerity damages growth.”  The yield on Spain’s  10-year benchmark bond  fell as much as
12 basis points to 5.11 percent today after President  Mario Draghi  said the  European Central Bank  is “far” from
withdrawing monetary stimulus for the bloc. The debt traded at
5.14 percent at 1:31 p.m. in  Madrid  after reaching 5.59 percent
this week, its highest level of the year, after  Italy ’s election
failed to produce a clear winner.  Domestic Demand  A drop in domestic demand pared fourth-quarter output by
4.7 percent from a year earlier, the National Statistics
Institute said, compared with 4 percent in the previous quarter.
The impact of rising  unemployment  and government spending cuts
was partially offset by exports, which added 2.8 percentage
points.  Over the full year, output shrank 1.4 percent from 2011,
when it grew 0.4 percent. Domestic demand chipped 3.9 percent
from the nation’s GDP in 2012, compared with a negative impact
of 1.9 percent a year earlier, while exports boosted growth by
2.5 percent, up from 2.3 percent in 2011.  “We won’t take more measures that worsen the recession, we
won’t do it,” Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro said today at a
press conference.  Tourism Suffers  Spain’s current-account deficit, the world’s second-biggest
during its debt-fueled housing boom that ended in 2008, narrowed
to 8.26 billion euros in 2012 from 37.5 billion euros a year
earlier, the Bank of Spain said. It was 105 billion euros in
2008, accounting for about 10 percent of GDP.  Still, the Bank of Spain said export growth slowed in the
last quarter and tourism weakened. The number of tourist visits
fell 2.6 percent in January from a year earlier.  In a separate report, INE said inflation held at 2.8
percent in February. A 26 percent unemployment rate and five
austerity rounds since Rajoy came to power about a year ago have
crimped spending and investment. U.K. consumer goods retailer
 Kingfisher Plc (KGF)  last week said Spain faces weak  consumer
confidence  while French carmaker  Renault SA (RNO)  said the Spanish
market will reach its lowest point in 30 years in 2013.  “This year is going to be tough,” said  Maria Yolanda
Fernandez Jurado , associate professor of the Faculty of Economic
and Business Sciences at Madrid’s Universidad Pontificia
Comillas. “Household spending simply isn’t waking up. It’s
unlikely the government’s growth forecast will be met.”  Spain may apply for European aid in the second half, Justin Knight, strategist at UBS, wrote in a note today.  “We have seen the lows in Spanish yields for now,” he
said. “After a harsh 2012, we expect Spain’s economic position
to remain very difficult in 2013 and 2014.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  