-- Stanley Ho’s Shun Tak Markets Dollar Bonds as Issuance Plunges
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-02-28T06:05:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/stanley-ho-s-shun-tak-markets-dollar-bonds-as-issuance-plunges.html
Shun Tak Holdings Ltd. (242)  is marketing
dollar-denominated bonds amid a 72 percent decline of issuance
in the Asia-Pacific region this month. Bond risk fell.  Shun Tak, controlled by the family of gambling mogul
 Stanley Ho , is considering offering the seven-year bonds at
around 6 percent, a person familiar with the deal said. This
would be the first benchmark offering in the U.S. currency for
the Hong Kong-based ferry operator and property developer,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Dollar bond sales in
the region have fallen to $10.5 billion from January, the data
show.  Sales are retreating from a record $37.3 billion last
month, while corporate bond offerings worldwide are on pace for
the slowest February since 2008 with the prospect of rising
interest rates in the U.S. and persistent recession in  Europe .
The Markit iTraxx  Asia  index, a measure of bond risk for 40
investment-grade borrowers outside  Japan , is headed for its
biggest monthly decline since October, according to CMA.  “Supply volumes have fallen in February due to a
combination of factors,” said Michele Barlow, Hong Kong-based
head of Asia-Pacific credit and convertible bonds research at
Bank of America Corp. The Chinese New Year holiday, a rise in
treasury volatility, the weak performance of a number of the
January new issues and the start of earnings season have limited
debt offerings, Barlow said.  Global Offerings  Global bond sales fell to $218.4 billion this month, a 49
percent decline from January, amid concern borrowing costs may
rise as the  Federal Reserve  signals it may wean the economy off
stimulus measures. Meanwhile, the European Commission is
forecasting the euro area will shrink for a second year.  Minutes of the Federal Reserve’s January meeting released
on Feb. 20 showed several policy makers said the U.S. central
bank should be ready to vary the pace of its $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases.  Asia’s dollar corporate bonds returned 0.6 percent this
year, compared with a 3.9 percent gain in the same period in
2012, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Shun Tak last offered dollar debt in July 1999, when its
unit sold $70 million of convertible bonds, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Bond Risk  The Markit iTraxx Asia index fell 2 basis points to 107 as
of 8:36 a.m. in  Hong Kong , Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
prices show. The gauge is on course to decrease 9.2 basis points
in February, the biggest monthly drop since the 17.7 decline in
October, according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index slid 3.5 basis points to
114 basis points as of 10:29 a.m. in Sydney, Westpac Banking
Corp. prices show. The benchmark, which has ranged from 110.2
basis points to 127.5 this year, is set to fall 5.5 basis points
this month, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the private market.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index dropped 2 basis points to 125
basis points as of 9:11 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to Deutsche
Bank AG prices. The measure, which started the year at 148.1, is
poised for a 10.2 basis-point decline this month, CMA prices
show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  