-- Steelmaker Schmolz Sued by GoldenTree Over Bond Issue
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-02-28T19:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/steelmaker-schmolz-sued-by-goldentree-over-bond-issue.html
Schmolz + Bickenbach AG (STLN)  was sued by
U.S. hedge fund GoldenTree Asset Management LP which accused the
Swiss supplier of steel to carmakers of fraudulently marketing
company bonds.  GoldenTree claims Schmolz and its agent  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) 
marketed bonds based on the management team’s “proven track
record,” six weeks before the company fired some of those top
executives, according to documents filed with the U.S. District
Court in  Chicago .  Schmolz sold 258 million euros ($337 million) of 9.875
percent, seven-year euro notes in May as slowing demand for
steel in  Europe  pressured the company’s finances. The
steelmaker’s board then fired Chief Executive Officer Benedikt Niemeyer and Chief Financial Officer Axel Euchner in June.  Schmolz’s board of directors “deliberately concealed” its
intent to fire the executives after the offering, according to
GoldenTree, which is based in  New York  and has $16.9 billion of
assets under management. It added it wouldn’t have bought 41
million euros of the notes if it was aware.  “We are convinced we will be able to successfully defend
against the complaint,” Schmolz + Bickenbach spokesman Adrian
Steinmann said by telephone. The Emmenbruecke-based company is
working on a response to the complaint and isn’t aware of
litigation from other investors, he said.  Moody’s Cut  GoldenTree’s general counsel Barry Ritholz and Cesaltine
Gregorio, a spokeswoman for BNP Paribas, declined to comment.  Moody’s cut the rating on Schmolz’s euro bond one level to
B3 on Feb. 25, citing a sharp downturn in European car industry
demand. Schmolz has broken covenants on a separate 875 million-
euro unsecured  bank loan  arranged by BNP and “is now seeking
longer term relief from its lenders,” Moody’s said.  “GoldenTree probably has a strong position,”  Martin Schreiber , an analyst with Zuercher Kantonalbank in Zurich said
by telephone. “The negotiation power of Schmolz + Bickenbach
could be somewhat affected because of the company’s high debt
burden.”  The company “is very likely” to break more of its credit
covenants so it is dependent on the banks, Schreiber said.  Schmolz fell 0.4 percent to 2.53 Swiss francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  