-- Sun Hung Kai Lowers Sales Target on Hong Kong Property Curbs
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2013-03-01T02:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/sun-hung-kai-lowers-sales-target-after-hong-kong-property-curbs.html
Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , the
world’s biggest developer by value, lowered its home sales
target after the Hong Kong government’s extra property measures
to curb prices that have doubled in four years.  The developer aims to release HK$32 billion ($4.13 billion)
worth of units for sale in the year ending June, Deputy Managing
Director Victor Lui told reporters at a briefing in Hong Kong
yesterday. Lui said in September Sun Hung Kai had set a target
of HK$35 billion for the period.  Hong Kong on Feb. 22 doubled stamp duty taxes on all
properties over HK$2 million and raised down-payment
requirements on some mortgages after  home prices  rose to a
record last year, defying previous attempts to cool a market it
said is at risk of an asset-price bubble. Sun Hung Kai, whose
billionaire  co-chairmen  brothers were arrested for bribery in
March, booked a lower profit from apartment sales in the six
months ended December.  “Our sales will inevitably be affected by the measures,”
Lui said. “But we have many projects this year so in general
terms we will still be very busy.”  The developer yesterday said  profit  excluding changes in
property revaluation fell 1.9 percent to HK$11.55 billion for
the six months ended Dec. 31. That compares with the HK$10.5
billion median estimate of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
News.  Sun Hung Kai’s  shares  fell 1.3 percent to HK$118.50 as of
9:41 a.m. Hong Kong time, while the nine-member  Hang Seng
Property Index (HSP)  dropped 0.6 percent. They’ve risen 1.9 percent
this year compared to a 3.3 percent advance in the property
gauge.  Profit Falls  For the fiscal first half, profit from property sales fell
to HK$6.4 billion from HK$7.9 billion a year earlier.  The case against Thomas and Raymond Kwok, sons of the
company’s late co-founder, has delayed the sales of some of Sun
Hung Kai’s projects, said Nicole Wong, an analyst at CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets.  The case “has affected new project launches for a few
months,” said Wong. “But they have also only just come off a
record high year in home sales. It’d be very hard to match
that.”  Sun Hung Kai’s profit from home sales rose to a record in
the fiscal year ended June last year, as the homebuilder known
for its high-end developments accelerated the opening of
projects including the Imperial Cullinan to take advantage of a
surge in property prices.  Home Sales  Sun Hung Kai accounted for about 17 percent of all new home
sales in Hong Kong last year, according to figures compiled by
Centaline Property Agency Ltd., the city’s biggest closely held
realtor. It sold more than 1,600 units for HK$22 billion in 2012,
down from more than 3,000 units worth HK$38 billion in 2011,
according to Centaline.  Hong Kong’s home prices have  doubled  in the past four years
and have now surpassed the previous peak in 1997, on an influx
of mainland Chinese buyers, record low interest rates and a lack
of new units. That has prompted the government to impose
measures including tightening mortgage lending, imposing higher
transaction taxes and pledging to increase supply.  Home prices have risen 5 percent this year even after Hong
Kong Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying, who took over in July,
introduced the city’s first property tax aimed at foreign buyers
in October.  Worst Performer  Sun Hung Kai’s shares gained 19 percent last year and were
the worst performer in the Hang Seng Property Index. The shares
have risen 8 percent since the Kwok brothers’ March 29 arrest,
while the property-gauge gained 25 percent during the same
period.  The Kwok brothers have a combined net worth of $17 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg News. The brothers and
two other men are charged with conspiring to provide payments,
loans and free use of apartments totaling more than HK$35
million to the city’s former No. 2 official Rafael Hui,
according to court documents.  They were first arrested in March last year and will next
appear in court on March 8. The brothers have denied any
wrongdoing.  The developer has been run by Thomas and Raymond Kwok since
the ouster as chairman in 2008 of their elder brother Walter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  