-- Sun Hung Kai First-Half Underlying Profit Falls on Home Sales
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2013-02-28T09:16:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/sun-hung-kai-first-half-underlying-profit-falls-on-home-sales.html
Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , the
world’s biggest developer by value, posted a less-than-estimated
decline in underlying profit as it put up fewer apartments for
sale after the company’s chairmen were charged with bribery.  Profit excluding changes in property revaluation fell to
HK$11.55 billion ($1.5 billion), or HK$4.41 a share, for the six
months ended Dec. 31, from HK$11.77 billion, or HK$4.58 a year
earlier, the company said in a statement to Hong Kong’s stock
exchange today. That compares to the HK$10.5 billion median
estimate of four analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  The company booked a lower profit from apartment sales even
as the city’s  home prices  rose to a record last year, defying
government attempts to cool a market it said is at risk of an
asset-price bubble. The case against Thomas and  Raymond Kwok ,
sons of the company’s late co-founder, could have delayed the
sales of some of Sun Hung Kai’s projects, said  Nicole Wong , an
analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets.  The case “has affected new project launches for a few
months,” said Wong. “But they have also only just come off a
record high year in home sales. It’d be very hard to match
that.”  Sun Hung Kai’s shares gained 19 percent last year and were
the worst performer in the nine-member  Hang Seng Property Index. (HSP) 
The stock rose 0.8 percent to HK$120 at close of trading in Hong
Kong today, before earnings were announced.  The developer’s shares has risen 8 percent since the Kwok
brothers’ March 29 arrest, while the property-gauge gained 25
percent during the same period.  For the fiscal first half, profit from property sales fell
to HK$6.4 billion from HK$7.9 billion a year earlier.  Rental income at the developer, which owns the
International Finance Centre office and mall complex and the
International Commerce Centre,  Hong Kong ’s tallest building,
rose 11 percent to HK$5.8 billion, Sun Hung Kai said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 