-- Sunshine Oilsands Taps China for Output Boost: Corporate Canada
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   D i v y a   B a l j i
-- 2013-02-28T21:25:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/sunshine-oilsands-taps-china-for-output-boost-corporate-canada.html
Sunshine Oilsands Ltd. (SUO) , the first
Canadian oil-sands operator to list shares on the  Hong Kong 
exchange, is in “advanced” talks with joint-venture partners
to boost production to a potential 1 million barrels a day.  Sunshine, whose  shares  slumped 47 percent to the lowest
close yesterday since its Hong Kong trading debut last February,
is in conversations with “more than two and less than 10”
investors, Chief Executive Officer John Zahary said in an
interview.  The company is betting its ownership structure, which
includes several large Chinese investors, along with the Hong
Kong listing, will give it access to the capital it needs to
develop its 1.2 million acres of leases in  Alberta , potentially
making it one of the largest oil-sands producers.  “We have the ability to do different things with different
people,” Zahary said in a Feb. 26 interview at Sunshine’s
Calgary headquarters. “We need capital, they have capital and
this creates an opportunity for us.”  Discussions have been with global companies that have
expressed interest publicly in getting bigger or entering the
oil sands and those that haven’t publicly said anything, Zahary
said. The company’s largest Chinese  shareholders  include China
Petrochemical Corp., known as Sinopec, China Investment Corp.
and China Life Insurance Overseas Co., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Huge Risk’  “Sunshine is cheap from a valuation perspective,” said
 John Stephenson ,  fund manager  with First Asset Investment
Management Inc. in Toronto, which manages C$2.7 billion ($2.6
billion) in assets. “But there’s a huge risk they don’t
develop, they don’t bridge that funding gap for their projects
so they have no choice but to go out and look for someone.”  Sunshine would consider cooperating with part-owner Sinopec
on some oil-sands projects, including having some Sinopec
employees work at the firm’s operations in Alberta, Zahary said.  “If you look around the world, there are still a number of
companies that have been somewhat public that they are not here
yet and they’d like to be here,” Zahary said.  Sunshine, which  raised  HK$4.5 billion ($580 million) in a
Hong Kong initial public offering last year, now has a market
value of HK$7.39 billion. The company also is listed in Toronto
where the shares have declined 12 percent since they began
trading in November. Sunshine rose 2.7 percent to HK$2.65 in
Hong Kong today and  climbed  3 percent to 35 Canadian cents at
the close in Toronto.  Size Everything  Sunshine’s expansion plans are happening as much larger
competitors in the oil sands, including  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) ,
Exxon Mobil Corp. and Statoil ASA, are struggling with weak
prices for Canadian heavy crude and a lack of pipeline capacity
to get their commodity to markets beyond the U.S. For companies
that require billions of dollars to buy and develop equipment to
extract bitumen, size is everything.  “Oil sands is the realm of the big boys,” Robert Mark, a
director and equities analyst at MacDougall, MacDougall &
MacTier Inc. in Toronto, which has C$2.5 billion under
management, said in an telephone interview. “When it comes to
these plays, scale is very important. The starting off point is
already a pretty large size.”  Several smaller companies operating in the oil sands are
struggling to find partners to fund expansion.  Connacher Oil and
Gas Ltd. , a Calgary-based oil and gas explorer with oil-sands
assets and a market value of C$66.1 million, has declined 87
percent in the past year as the company looks for financing for
its planned expansion.  Partner Shopping  Connacher hired the Rothschild Group in August 2011 to
search for partners to help boost production to 44,000 barrels a
day, up from about 11,500 in the third quarter. So far the
company has failed to find a partner.  Connacher Co-Managing Director Kelly Ogle didn’t
immediately respond to a voicemail left yesterday at his office.  Athabasca Oil Corp. (ATH) , with a market value of about C$4
billion, has also failed to find a partner for its oil-sands
joint venture so far.  In August, Athabasca signed a letter of intent to pursue a
joint venture for its Hangingstone and Birch oil-sands
properties, it said at the time without naming partners. The
company was in talks with Kuwait Petroleum Corp. over a possible
C$4 billion joint venture transaction, the Globe and Mail
reported on Aug. 31.  Total-Suncor  “Once we have news to announce we will announce it,”
Heather Douglas, an Athabasca spokeswoman, said yesterday in
response to a question about whether the company had found a
joint venture partner.  Suncor is considering altering a joint venture agreement
with Paris-based  Total SA (FP)  over rising costs at its planned
Voyageur upgrader. The company will make a decision on the
future of the project by the end of March and has already
delayed another project with Total to produce bitumen.  Potential Asian buyers of Canadian oil-sands assets have a
lot to choose from, said Eric Nuttall, a fund manager with
Sprott Asset Management LP in Toronto who manages about C$90
million.  “There is so much product on the market right now in terms
of assets for sale and companies looking to do JVs, you really
have to be able to distinguish yourself in terms of asset
quality,” Nuttall said in an interview. “I would say almost
every company in  Canada  is talking about potentially doing a
JV.”  C$15 Billion  For the moment, Sunshine is producing about 500 barrels a
day. The company probably will need to invest about C$15 billion
in equipment and operations as it boosts production, Zahary
said. That investment and a joint-venture partner would give a
boost to the shares, said Andrew Potter, an analyst at  CIBC
World Markets .  “A JV is key to unlocking value,” Potter wrote in a Dec.
17 note to clients. “The appeal of the Sunshine story rests
primarily on whether or not it lands a large JV.”  “Without a JV, the company has large resource that it will
struggle for capital to develop in a timely manner,” Potter
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Divya Balji in Toronto at 
 dbalji1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  