-- Swiss Strive for U.S. Tax Deal, No Update on Time, Official Says
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-02-28T15:11:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/swiss-strive-for-u-s-tax-deal-no-update-on-time-official-says.html
Clinching a deal with the U.S. to
solve a dispute over untaxed money in secret accounts is vital
for Switzerland’s financial sector, the country’s top negotiator
said, declining to name a time when that agreement might be
reached.  Switzerland is in talks with the U.S. to end an
investigation into Swiss banks suspected of helping wealthy
Americans hide assets and cheat on taxes. In 2009, the country’s
biggest bank,  UBS AG (UBSN) , had to disclose the names of more than
4,000 clients after its business practices became the subject of
a U.S. probe.  “It is crucial for us to find a solution with the United
States for all Swiss banks,” Michael Ambuehl, head of the State
Secretariat for International Financial Matters, said in Zurich
today. “I will not tell you much more, also in regard to the
time horizon.”  He represents Switzerland in negotiations with other
countries over tax disputes. Any agreement would have to respect
Swiss sovereignty and its legal tradition, he said.  Switzerland, which prizes banking secrecy, refuses to agree
to the automatic exchange of bank account holders’ information.  The Swiss have withholding tax agreements in place with the
U.K. and  Austria , enabling citizens of those countries to pay
tax on their accounts while remaining anonymous. The Swiss
intend to strike similar deals with other countries.  “Analogous talks with Italy and  Greece  are under way,”
Ambuehl said. “With Italy we have to wait until the new
government is in place.”  The country also signed such a deal with  Germany , though
opposition parliamentarians in Berlin refused to ratify it last
year. Germany will hold national polls, which could give
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  a third term, later this year.  “Not much is likely to happen until the elections in
Germany in the autumn of this year,” Ambuehl said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  