-- Swiss Economy Defies Strong Franc With Unexpected Growth
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-02-28T08:51:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/swiss-economy-defies-strong-franc-with-unexpected-expansion-1-.html
  Switzerland ’s economy unexpectedly
grew in the fourth quarter as a surge in  consumer spending 
helped the economy battle the headwind of a strong currency.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.2 percent from the third
quarter, when it advanced 0.6 percent, the State Secretariat for
Economic Affairs in Bern said today. Economists forecast
stagnation, the  median  of 19 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey showed. Consumer spending increased 1.1 percent.  Private consumption has helped Switzerland  grow in recent
years and emerge from the financial crisis less bruised than
many other countries in  Europe . Adding to signs the economy is
gaining pace, manufacturing output expanded for the first time
in 17 months in January and the ZEW index of investor confidence
rose for the fifth month in February.  “It’s a positive sign in that other industrial countries
went downhill toward year’s end,” said  Alexander Koch , an
economist at  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  in Munich. “If you look at the
indicators the positive momentum should continue. We expect a
slight acceleration in the course of the year.”  Investors buy the franc at times when they want
particularly safe assets. The franc is still 24 percent stronger
than when Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in September
2008.  Franc Cap  The  Swiss National Bank , which set a cap of 1.20 per euro
on the franc in September 2011 to aid the economy, expects GDP
to expand as much as 1.5 percent this year. GDP advanced 1
percent last year, down from 1.9 percent in 2011, today’s data
show.  In the fourth quarter, private spending on health care
increased, and the category that includes expenditure on
insurance and financial services also reported a higher than
average rise, the data today showed.  Government spending  also
expanded. From a year earlier, the economy grew 1.4 percent
after expanding by a revised 1.2 percent in the previous three
months.  Swiss exporters have had a tough time in recent years with
foreign demand damped by the strong franc and the crisis in the
euro area. About half of Switzerland’s exports are destined for
the euro area, which fell back into recession last year. Net
exports of goods and services contracted in the fourth quarter.  While Switzerland has managed to avoid a recession, SNB
President Thomas Jordan said in an interview with Handelszeitung
yesterday that an exit of the cap was still far off.  The franc has weakened 1.1 percent against the euro since
the start of the year due to an easing of the region’s debt
crisis, though upwards pressure on the currency could return,
given that the 17-member reagion’s debt woes remained
unresolved, Jordan said in a speech last week.  The SNB holds its next quarterly monetary assessment on
March 14, when it will issue new growth and inflation forecasts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  