-- Swiss Killings Raise Pressure for Stricter Gun-Control Laws
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2013-02-28T14:51:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/swiss-killings-increase-pressure-for-stricter-gun-control-laws.html
Switzerland’s second shooting spree
in the past two months is increasing support for tougher gun
controls, including a proposal to link the firearm registries of
the Alpine nation’s 26 cantons.  The death toll from yesterday’s shooting at a wood-
processing factory in Menznau rose to four when one of seven
injured people died in the hospital, Lucerne cantonal police
said today in a  statement . The 42-year-old Swiss national who
opened fire with a Sphinx AT 380 pistol was among the dead. That
followed the Jan. 3 killing of three people by a gunman armed
with a military rifle in the southern Swiss village of Daillon.  Switzerland, where citizens can keep army-issue firearms
after mandatory military service, is debating stricter gun
controls after the worst mass shootings since 2001. While the
country has a gun homicide rate one-seventh of that in the U.S.,
the killings add to political pressure to tighten firearms laws.  “This act has touched us all deeply and made us aware what
incredible suffering can be inflicted by weapons,” Justice
Minister Simonetta Sommaruga told reporters yesterday in the
Swiss capital, Bern. “For me it’s always been clear we have to
continually improve our weapons legislation.”  A parliamentary committee voted 12 to 7 on Jan. 8 to push a
proposal for Swiss cantons to share information from their
existing local gun registries. The ownership of hundreds of
thousands of weapons in  Switzerland  is still unclear, Sommaruga
said.  Gun Relationship  In a 2011 referendum, Swiss voters rejected a plan to
require the registration of all firearms as well as a motion to
change Switzerland’s tradition of letting citizens keep army-
issue weapons at home.  “If there was a vote today, the situation would be
different, but will mentalities change in the long term?”
Christian Levrat, head of the  Social Democrats , the second-
biggest party in the Swiss Parliament’s lower house, told
Tribune de Geneve last month. “We’re realizing that
Switzerland, like the U.S., is faced with a problem in its
relationship with firearms.”  Switzerland ranks third behind the U.S. and Yemen in
firearms per capita, with the country’s 8 million people owning
an estimated 3.4 million guns in 2007, according to the
independent  Small Arms Survey .  Less Isolated  The Menznau and Daillon shootings suggest that Switzerland
may be becoming more influenced by events elsewhere in the
world, such as the Newtown massacre in  Connecticut  and even the
trial of  Oscar Pistorius , the double-amputee South African track
star accused of killing the 29-year-old model Reeva Steenkamp,
said Daniel Warner, assistant director at the Geneva Centre for
the Democratic Control of Armed Forces.  “Switzerland has become less isolated from the social
phenomenon in other places and the free movement of people has
had its influence,” said Warner. “Switzerland used to be the
world’s largest gated community -- those days are over.”  Still, the Alpine country had roughly 0.5 gun homicides per
100,000 inhabitants in 2010 compared with 3.6 in the U.S.,
government figures show. That translates to 45 gun murders in
Switzerland in 2011,  police crime statistics  show.  The shootings over the past two months aren’t part of a
trend, said Hermann Suter, vice president of the nation’s gun-
rights lobby group ProTell, named after legendary archer William
Tell.  “It doesn’t show Switzerland is getting more violent,”
said Suter, a 72-year-old former Swiss army lieutenant colonel.
“It’s absolutely wrong to say Switzerland will have one
incident after another. It just happens like a car accident.”  Cultural Differences  Suter, who joined Switzerland’s Grenadiers infantry corps
in 1961, said that tougher Swiss firearms laws and a culture
shaped by universal military service differentiate the country
from the U.S.  Customers of Swiss gun shops need to certify that they have
a clean criminal record and no psychiatric disability as well as
prove they know how to use the weapon. U.S. states, including
Florida, Montana and  Utah , allow people to buy semi-automatic
assault weapons without a license, according to the Law Center
to Prevent Gun Violence.  “America is definitely a more violent society,” said
Aaron Karp, a lecturer in political science at Old Dominion
University in Norfolk, Virginia and a senior consultant with the
Small Arms Survey. “Most homicides are by individuals who
believe they have the right and obligation to implement justice.
The Swiss don’t think that way.”  Patriotic Duty  Switzerland’s gun culture is rooted in a sense of patriotic
duty and national identity, according to Suter. An armed
citizenry has been a cornerstone of Switzerland’s defense since
the country’s founding in 1291. Service weapons are kept at home
to speed up a mobilization in case the country, with a
population smaller than  New York  City, is invaded. Since 2008,
almost all military ammunition is kept at secure army depots.  “Americans have this cowboy mentality while in
Switzerland, there’s a militia and hunting culture,” said
Warner. “A large part of the population here is educated about
using weapons, and that’s not the case in the U.S.”  Stephen Halbrook, a U.S. lawyer who has represented the
 National Rifle Association , calls Switzerland “the proof in the
pudding” that guns don’t cause crime.  “The bottom line is that there are a lot of guns in that
society and the crime rate is low,” Halbrook said in a Feb. 26
interview.  Zug Massacre  Calls for tighter gun controls increased in Switzerland in
2001 after a man killed 14 people in a regional government
building in Zug, the worst mass murder in the country’s history.
Six years later, the government began harmonizing weapons rules
nationwide before Switzerland joined the European Union’s
passport-free zone in 2009.  While ProTell doesn’t want Swiss laws weakened to resemble
U.S. gun rules, it supports people’s right to own firearms for
self-defense.  “I’m convinced that only a dictator takes away the weapons
of his people so he can sit on his throne,” Suter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  