-- Swiss Stocks Advance for a Second Day as Economy Expands
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-02-28T09:59:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/swiss-stocks-advance-for-a-second-day-as-economy-expands.html
  Swiss stocks  rose, sending the
country’s equity benchmark higher for a second day, as the
economy unexpectedly expanded in the fourth quarter.  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the biggest maker of Swiss watches,
climbed 1.4 percent.  Temenos Group AG (TEMN)  advanced for a second day.
Addex Therapeutics Ltd. gained 3.8 percent after the company
narrowed its full-year net loss.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  added 0.5 percent to 7,522.02 at
10:57 a.m. in Zurich, extending its gain in February to 1.8
percent. The equity benchmark has risen for six consecutive
months, its longest winning streak since 2009. The gauge climbed
0.5 percent yesterday after Italy sold debt and a report showed
a jump in U.S. durable-goods orders excluding transportation
equipment. The broader Swiss Performance Index increased 0.4
percent today.  “In contrast with most other industrial countries, the
Swiss economy was able to maintain a positive growth momentum at
the end of 2012, thanks to resilient consumption,”  Alexander Koch , an economist at UniCredit SpA in Munich, wrote in a report
to clients dated today. “The outlook for this year remains
comparatively favorable.”  Today’s report showed the  Swiss economy  expanded 0.2
percent in the fourth quarter, according to the State
Secretariat for Economic Affairs in Bern. Economists had
forecast stagnation, the  median of 19 estimates  in a Bloomberg
News survey showed. Gross domestic product increased 0.6 percent
in the third quarter.  Draghi Speech  Stocks also advanced today after European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  signaled at  an event in Munich  yesterday
that the ECB has no intention of withdrawing its measures to
combat the euro area’s debt crisis.  Swatch, which generates about 36 percent of  its revenue 
from  Europe , climbed 7 francs to 525 francs.  Temenos, a Swiss maker of banking software, added 3.8
percent to 21.75 francs, extending yesterday’s 13 percent rally
after the company reported fourth-quarter earnings.  Addex climbed 28 centimes to 7.58 francs, rising for the
first time in four days. The biotechnology company narrowed its
full-year loss to 27 million francs ($29 million) from a 31.1
million-franc net loss a year earlier.  Sika AG (SIK)  dropped 2.7 percent to 2,282 francs after the
world’s largest maker of construction chemicals said it will
probably not reach a medium-term sales growth target of as much
as 10 percent as the euro area’s debt woes weigh on builders.
The company forecast growth of 4 percent to 6 percent.  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 28 percent lower than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  