-- Syria Rebels Seek Premier-in-Waiting as U.S. Steps Up Help
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-03-01T10:40:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/syria-rebels-seek-premier-in-waiting-as-u-s-steps-up-support.html
Syrian opposition groups are
debating who should head a provisional government as they
prepare for an Istanbul meeting to announce their first formal
alternative to President Bashar al-Assad’s administration.  Abdelbaset Sieda, a former head of the Syrian National
Council, the biggest faction in the coalition that’s meeting in
Istanbul, said his group will submit three candidates at the
meeting. The prime minister will be chosen “preferably by
consensus” rather than through a vote, he said.  It’s not clear when the meeting, originally scheduled for
March 2, will take place. The coalition said on its Facebook
page yesterday that it has been delayed for “logistical
reasons.”  The announcement of a transitional government comes as the
U.S. and other international backers of the opposition in  Syria 
push for an end to a conflict that began almost two years ago
and has left more than 70,000 people dead, according to United
Nations estimates.  The U.S., which along with European and Arab League allies,
has backed the National Coalition, will provide support to
Syrian rebel fighters for the first time, Secretary of State
 John Kerry  said yesterday. That will include medical equipment
and food though not weapons, as well as $60 million for the
National Coalition, Kerry said.  ‘Western Hotels’  “This money will either fall into the hands of people who
live in the best western hotels and have never been among
Syrians or lived their struggles, or it will come into Syria as
weapons, bullets and food and medical aid for those who murder
and destroy,” Syria’s state-run Tishrin newspaper said today.  French President  Francois Hollande , speaking during a visit
to  Russia , said he hoped for a “political solution” within
weeks. Russia, which has ties with Syria dating back to the
Soviet era, has sought a role as mediator. In recent weeks, both
Assad’s government and opposition groups have signaled their
willingness to engage in negotiations, without any sign that
they agree on the terms under which talks should take place.  The formation of an alternative government was stipulated
in the agreement that led to the establishment of the Syrian
National Coalition in Qatar’s capital, Doha, in November. It
probably won’t be a “game-changer,” said Anthony Skinner,
Middle East director for  Maplecroft , a global risk adviser based
in the English city of Bath.  Military Training  “What’s likely to be more significant is a potential shift
in U.S. policy,” Skinner said. Eventually, that “might see
Washington provide the armed opposition with  body armor , armored
vehicles and possibly military training.”  The uprising against Assad, from the Alawite sect that is
an offshoot of Shiite Islam, has taken on an increasingly
sectarian character, with most of the rebel groups led by  Sunni
Muslims .  Iran , the region’s main Shiite power, supports Assad
while Sunni-majority countries such as  Saudi Arabia  and  Turkey 
are backing the opposition.  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon expressed
concern at a Feb. 27 UN conference in Vienna “about the risk of
sectarian violence and mass reprisals as the situation continues
to worsen.”  No Influence  While the National Coalition has managed to unite some of
the main political opponents of Assad, mainly those outside
Syria, others on the ground inside the country say the group
doesn’t represent them.  “The coalition is a head without a body or soul,”
Brigadier-General Mustapha al-Sheikh, one of the first senior
officers to defect from the Syrian army, said in an interview
from a Syrian post near the Turkish border.  “It doesn’t represent Syria nor does it have any influence
over the armed groups on the ground,” he said. “Its members
live abroad and have no connection to what’s happening inside
the country.”  U.S. officials have expressed concern that some of the main
groups fighting against Assad are jihadists. One of them, the
Al-Nusra Front, is listed by the State Department as a terrorist
group.  Sieda said the main duty of the provisional government will
be to administer the areas under opposition control, and it will
include a defense ministry that will seek to unite the various
armed factions fighting Assad’s troops.  “No government is effective unless it is in real contact
with the people on the ground,” said Sieda. “The viewpoint of
those inside Syria should be the most heard.”  Disputes among the various rebel factions have been cited
by western officials as one reason why pledges of support for
the opposition haven’t been matched by concrete action. Skinner
said western and Arab powers “may try to use promises of aid as
a carrot to force various interest groups to agree on a
candidate if such an agreement is evasive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  