-- U.K. Needs More Secret-Court Safeguards, Lawmakers Say
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-02-28T12:40:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/u-k-needs-more-secret-court-safeguards-lawmakers-say.html
U.K. lawmakers called on the
government to introduce further safeguards into legislation
allowing for trials to be held in secret, amid a debate weighing
security concerns against civil liberties.  The Justice and Security Bill, being pushed through
Parliament by Prime Minister David Cameron’s government, seeks
to allow some trials to be held behind closed doors if the
evidence aired in public may compromise national security. It’s
designed to deal with terrorism cases.  Parliament’s  Joint Committee on Human Rights  called on the
government in a report published in London today to include a
“last resort” condition, allowing the use of secret
proceedings only when they’re clearly necessary and “a fair
determination is not possible by any other means.”  “We remain sympathetic to the problems faced by the
government in dealing with sensitive material, but the bill as
drafted does not put in place sufficiently robust safeguards to
oversee the exercise of what are very wide-ranging powers,” the
committee chairman, opposition Labour Party lawmaker Hywel Francis, said in an e-mailed statement.  “We urge the government to think again and make sure that
secret proceedings are used only in cases of pressing national
security need and are the last possible resort,” he said.  In a letter published today, a group of 702 lawyers wrote
to the Daily Mail newspaper expressing concerns over that
proposals in the bill will “erode core principles of our civil
justice system” by undermining the right to a fair trial and
open justice.  The legislation has already been amended, amid objections
from Cameron’s junior coalition partners, the Liberal Democrats,
and the opposition Labour Party.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  