-- U.K. Wasting Money on Unwanted Defense Kit, Lawmakers Say
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2013-02-28T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/u-k-wasting-money-on-unwanted-defense-kit-lawmakers-say.html
The U.K.’s Ministry of Defense is
sitting on a growing stockpile of equipment as it wastes
“significant amounts of public money” buying supplies it
doesn’t need, a panel of lawmakers said.  The department has accumulated unwanted items valued at 3.4
billion pounds ($5.2 billion), the  House of Commons Public
Accounts Committee  said in a report published in London today.
It said the military purchased 38 percent more materials such as
clothing and ammunition than it used in the 24 months ending in
March 2011. Some depots for non-explosive items are 90 percent
full.  “With stock returning from  Afghanistan  and soon from
 Germany , the problem is likely to get worse unless the MOD acts
now,” Richard Bacon, a committee member from Prime Minister
David Cameron’s Conservative Party, said in an e-mailed
statement. “It is particularly galling at a time when funding
is tight and when one considers that the National Audit Office
has been warning about these issues for over 20 years.”  The government said last month it had been able to bring
 defense spending  plans into line with budget projections
following more than two years of efforts to plug a gap of more
than 70 billion pounds. Further cuts now under consideration as
 economic growth stagnates  threaten to open a new 11 billion-
pound funding gap, the London-based Royal United Services
Institute, a research group, said in a report yesterday.  A plan by the ministry to spend more than 1 billion pounds
on a new inventory system may be ineffective because officials
lack information on the supplies held and are thus unaware of
the true scale of the surplus, the cross-party Public Accounts
Committee said.  “Before getting its new system up and running, the
department needs to perform a full cleansing and reconciliation
exercise, to ensure it doesn’t waste even more public money,”
Bacon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in  London  at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  