-- U.S. House Passes Renewal of Anti-Domestic Violence Bill
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2013-02-28T18:33:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/u-s-house-passes-renewal-of-anti-domestic-violence-bill.html
The U.S. House passed legislation
that supports funding for programs that fight domestic violence,
ending a multiyear debate during which Democrats and Republicans
accused each other of caring more about politics than about
battered women.  The bill, S. 47, now goes to President  Barack Obama  for his
signature. Obama said in a statement that he looks forward to
“signing it into law as soon as it hits my desk.”  The vote on the legislation, which would authorize about
$660 million annually over the next five years for programs
aimed at preventing domestic violence and sexual assault, was
286-138. The Senate had passed the measure on Feb. 12.  Earlier today, the House rejected, 166-257, a Republican
amendment that if adopted would have sent the bill back to the
Senate. That language would have rewritten two contentious
provisions in the bill -- on sexual orientation and on the
authority of American Indian tribal courts to try people who
weren’t members of a tribe.  As passed, the bill would specifically prohibit grantees
from discriminating on the basis of sexual orientation or gender
identity. It also would allow tribes to try certain non-members
who live or work on a reservation if they are accused of
assaulting a member on reservation lands.  Under current law, tribes can’t try non-members for
domestic-violence crimes committed against a member on a
reservation, a situation victims’ rights advocates said led
women to not report cases because they thought federal
prosecutors, often located hundreds of miles away, would ignore
them.  No Discrimination  “Domestic violence does not discriminate,” said
Representative Rick Larsen, a Democrat from  Washington . “And
with this bill, domestic-violence protection will no longer
discriminate.”  Before the vote, Representative Shelley Moore Capito, a
West Virginia Republican, told her colleagues about an 11-year-
old boy, Jahlil Clements, who was killed trying to stop an
attack on his mother by her boyfriend. The man was hitting
Jahlil’s mother as she was driving; when she pulled over, the
boy jumped out and tried to flag down passing cars to stop and
help. He was struck by a car whose driver didn’t see him.  “If we don’t intervene, if we don’t find help, if we don’t
end this cycle of violence for the Jahlil Clements of this
country, we’re doing a great disservice to our country,” said
Capito, who urged the House to pass the Senate’s bill instead of
her party’s alternative.  1994 Legislation  First enacted in 1994 with then-Senator -- and current Vice
President --  Joe Biden , a Delaware Democrat, as its sponsor, the
Violence Against Women Act gives the federal government the
authority to pay for grants for such things as shelters for
domestic-violence victims and police training. The last five-
year reauthorization expired in 2011.  The programs would be subject to the automatic spending
cuts, known as sequestration, scheduled to begin taking effect
tomorrow.  Today’s vote will allow Congress to move on to other
topics, lawmakers said, and may put to rest the complaints of
Democrats who said that last year’s failed effort to renew the
law was evidence of a Republican “war on women.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  