-- U.S. Regulators Lay Out Plan for Foreclosure Compensation
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-02-28T18:51:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/u-s-regulators-lay-out-compensation-plan-for-foreclosure-accord.html
About 4.2 million borrowers who went
through foreclosures will hear from Rust Consulting Inc. within
31 days to outline their compensation under a settlement with 13
mortgage servicers, according to U.S. bank regulators.  The final details of an agreement with the largest U.S.
mortgage servicers were released today by the Federal Reserve
and Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, who said that
Rust was hired as the agent tasked with giving out $3.6 billion
in cash payments to those  foreclosed  on in 2009 and 2010.
Individual borrowers will receive as much as $125,000, depending
on how their harm is categorized by the servicers.  The regulators reached the settlement last month for
foreclosure faults after a U.S. housing-market collapse
contributed to the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression. Another $5.7 billion is supposed to be used by the
firms to prevent future foreclosures.  The deal, which has been criticized by lawmakers and
consumer groups, is “several times the potential payout had the
reviews run their course,” Comptroller of the Currency  Thomas Curry  said in a Feb. 13 speech in  Washington .  Mortgage servicers including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  were accused of engaging in improper
foreclosure methods in 2009 and 2010, including so-called robo-
signing of documents. Regulators in 2011 ordered servicers to
hire independent consultants to review their foreclosures and
determine how to compensate borrowers. That process was ended at
those firms signing this year’s settlement.  Goldman Sachs  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  are responsible
for $232 million in cash to borrowers and $325 million in
mortgage help, though they no longer own mortgage servicers. The
settlement allows the two firms instead to pay cash to the
compensation fund and borrower-education efforts and -- if
approved by regulators -- be given $7 to $10 credit for each
dollar spent. That could mean the two banks pay between $32.5
million and $46.4 million for mortgage assistance.  Other firms in the settlement that no longer operate
servicers include  MetLife Inc. (MET)  and Aurora Bank FSB.  Rust, the Minneapolis-based administrative-services firm,
will begin sending payments to the borrowers by April after
contacting all 4.2 million borrowers by the end of March, OCC
Deputy Comptroller Morris Morgan told reporters in a conference
call today. Borrowers seeking to confirm their eligibility can
call Rust at 888-952-9105.  Smallest Payments  In studying the previous foreclosure reviews by consultants
-- 104,000 of which finished before the process was canceled --
Morgan said regulators found that fewer than 6.5 percent
suffered errors that caused financial harm. The smallest
payments will be a few hundred dollars and will go to all of
those foreclosed on by the servicers, including those whose
foreclosures were properly executed.  Among firms ordered in 2011 to have foreclosures reviewed,
three haven’t yet settled with regulators:  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) ,
IndyMac Bancorp’s successor OneWest Bank FSB and  EverBank
Financial Corp. (EVER)  The 457,000 foreclosure those firms were
involved in during this time period must still be reviewed in a
process the regulators said should be completed in the coming
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 