-- U.S. Credit Swaps Rise as Senate Votes to Retain Spending Cuts
-- B y   M a d h u r a   K a r n i k
-- 2013-02-28T21:57:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-hold-after-gdp-jobless-claims-data.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk rose after the Senate rejected a proposal from the
Democrats to replace the $85 billion in automatic spending cuts
due to begin tomorrow.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
0.7 basis point to a mid-price of 88 basis points at 4:55 p.m.
in  New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
measure, down 0.8 basis point in February, is heading for its
fourth straight monthly decline.  Senators turned back a Democratic proposal to stall the
spending cuts and no additional congressional action is planned
before they start. The across-the-board reductions will total
$1.2 trillion over nine years, with $85 billion set to take
effect in the remaining seven months of this fiscal year.  “The Senate news gave investors a reason to sell and
dashed some hopes for a last minute deal,” Anthony Valeri, a
market strategist at San Diego-based  LPL Financial , said in an
e-mail. The news is “driving some late apprehension,” he said.  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Economic Data  Gross domestic product grew at a 0.1 percent annual rate in
the fourth quarter, Commerce Department figures showed today in
 Washington . That was less than the median estimate of 0.5
percent by 83 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  A separate report from the Labor Department showed initial
jobless claims dropped to 344,000 in the latest week, compared
with the median estimate of 360,000 by economists. The number of
people collecting  unemployment insurance  fell to the lowest
level since June 2008.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index rose 3.7 basis points to 440.7 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-
rated, debt rose 1.1 basis points to 505.3 basis points, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and less than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madhura Karnik in New York at 
 mkarnik@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  