-- Tudor Said to Plan First Equity Funds Since Pallotta Left
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2013-02-28T17:06:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/tudor-said-to-plan-first-equity-funds-since-pallotta-left.html
Tudor Investment Corp., the $11.6
billion hedge fund that seeks to profit from macroeconomic
events, is planning its first equity funds since stock manager
James Pallotta left the firm in 2009, according to four people
with knowledge of the matter.  Tudor may offer two equity funds to clients next year, one
of which would be based on the performance of a number of
portfolio managers focused on different industries, said the
people, who asked not to be named because the plans are private.
Tudor is in the early stages of planning, and may decide to
shelve the funds, the people said.  Patrick Clifford , a spokesman
for Greenwich, Connecticut-based Tudor, declined to comment.  The firm, founded by billionaire  Paul Tudor Jones , started
its Raptor Global equity fund in 1993 that was run by Jones’
longtime partner Pallotta and was once Tudor’s largest.
Pallotta, who owns a stake in the Boston Celtics professional
basketball team, at his peak managed as much as $11 billion at
Tudor. He spun out Raptor in 2009 to start his own firm and
closed the fund within six months.  While Tudor has sought to build up an equity business since
2010 and hired stock teams for the effort, it has had recent
departures. Larry Petrella, a director of U.S. equities who
previously worked at Diamondback Capital Management LLC, quit
Tudor in January after two years, Hedge Fund Alert reported last
month. Tudor cut back on its Asian equity trading, resulting in
the departures of Singapore-based portfolio managers including
Allen Chu and Ashwin Ranganathan last month.  Macro Fund  One of the new equity funds that Tudor is planning is
similar to a macro fund that the firm opened last year with $500
million. The Tudor Discretionary Macro fund is based on the
performance of 14 teams of macro portfolio managers, investors
briefed on the matter said in July.  Two of the managers that worked together in a team, Michael Georgiou and Miguel Mayo, have since left, according to two
people with knowledge of the matter. The Tudor Discretionary
Macro fund now manages about $830 million and is made up of 15
teams, another person said.  The macro fund and the planned equity fund may help in
succession planning for Jones, who started Tudor in the 1980s.
Jones, 58, has told investors that he has no immediate plans to
retire and that he sees many compelling market opportunities
over the next four or five years that will keep him trading.  Tudor’s main fund returned 6.3 percent last year and gained
4.3 percent in January, a person said last month. Macro funds
gained 1.4 percent in January and lost 0.8 percent in 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Pallotta spun off Raptor with about $1.5 billion after
losses in 2007 and 2008 spurred client withdrawals. He had
posted an average annual return of about 19 percent from 1993 to
2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in  New York  at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  