-- Unitech Seeks to Add Libor to Deutsche Bank Swap Lawsuit
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-02-28T12:52:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/unitech-seeks-to-add-libor-to-deutsche-bank-swap-lawsuit.html
An Indian property firm suing
Deutsche Bank AG sought permission to add accusations of
interest-rate rigging to its lawsuit over a swap agreement.  “Material has come to light which shows that Deutsche Bank
AG has been involved in the manipulation of Libor,”  Unitech
Ltd. (UT)  said in documents for the two-day hearing that started in a
London court today. The company said it wouldn’t have signed
loan or swap documents had it known about rate rigging.  Germany ’s largest bank sued New Delhi-based Unitech last
year saying it owed $11 million under an interest-rate swap and
had missed payments. Deutsche Bank and a consortium of other
lenders also sought to enforce a $150 million loan, while
Unitech countersued claiming the swap wasn’t suitable or
properly explained.  It’s the second time a plaintiff in a U.K. lawsuit has
sought to use rate-manipulation allegations in a case over swaps
that turned out to be costly. Affiliates of Guardian Care Homes
Ltd. won permission in October from Judge Julian Flaux to accuse
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  of benefiting from its attempts to fix the
benchmark. About $300 trillion of contracts worldwide are tied
to the London interbank offered rate.  Unitech’s “unfounded allegations about Libor are an
attempt to divert attention from its unpaid debt,” said Kathryn Hanes, a spokeswoman for the Frankfurt-based lender.  Deutsche Bank and more than a dozen other lenders are being
investigated by regulators worldwide over rate rigging.
Germany’s largest bank has suspended seven employees so far and
is under pressure to release results of an internal probe into
Libor submissions. It hasn’t been censured by regulators.  Barclays, UBS AG and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  have
been fined more than $2.5 billion by regulators investigating
the scandal.  Richard Gwynne, Unitech’s lawyer, didn’t immediately
respond to e-mails seeking comment.  The case is:  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  v. Unitech Limited,  High
Court  of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division, 12-464  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at   cscinta@bloomberg.net  