-- Turkish Yields Fall as Stimulus Bets Outweigh Deficit Concern
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-02-28T16:39:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/turkish-yields-fall-as-stimulus-bets-outweigh-deficit-concern.html
Turkey’s bond yields fell as the
U.S. Federal Reserve and the  European Central Bank  signaled they
will maintain stimulus measures, outweighing concern about a
bigger than expected trade deficit at home.  The two-year benchmark notes extended their drop this month
as ECB President  Mario Draghi  signaled late yesterday the bank
has no intention of tightening monetary policy anytime soon with
inflation projected to “significantly” undershoot its 2
percent target next year. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke yesterday said stimulus has helped reduce U.S.
borrowing costs and spur growth. Turkey’s  trade  deficit in
January widened more than economists’ estimated.  “The expectation that the global liquidity will continue
to remain abundant is driving down yields,” Selim Gulkan, a
fixed-income trader at  Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS (TEBNK) , said in e-mailed
comments today. “The deficit is only slightly higher than
estimates and made no big impact.”  Yields on benchmark notes slid two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 5.68 percent at the 5 p.m. close in
Istanbul, bringing their decline this month to 17 basis points.
The lira was little changed at 1.7970 a dollar, after weakening
to 1.8011 in earlier trading.  Turkey ’s  trade  gap expanded to $7.29 billion from $7.01
billion a year earlier, exceeding the $7.1 billion median of
nine estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on 10-year  bonds  fell for a third day, slipping
seven basis points to 6.81 percent, their lowest close since
Feb. 1.  “The probability of a sharp rise in U.S. interest rates is
slim in the short term and this caused buying in our longer-
maturity bonds,” Ugur Kucuk, a fixed-income strategist at Is
Investment Securities in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  