-- Luxottica CEO Says 2013 Started Positively, Sees Acquisitions
-- B y   D a n   L i e f g r e e n
-- 2013-02-28T17:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/luxottica-ceo-says-2013-started-positively-sees-acquisitions.html
Luxottica Group SpA, (LUX)  the world’s
largest maker of eyeglasses, got off to a “positive” start in
2013 and may make more acquisitions this year, Chief Executive
Officer Andrea Guerra said in an interview.  The owner of the Ray-Ban and Oakley brands today reported
fourth-quarter net income climbed 19 percent to 77 million euros
($101 million). Adjusted for one-time items, profit for the year
rose 24 percent to 567 million euros, compared with the 565
million-euro median of 15  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  “The start of 2013 has been particularly positive and
March will be the same,” Guerra said in the interview. The
Milan-based company is forecasting “double-digit” growth in
the premium and luxury segments in 2013.  Luxottica has made  acquisitions  to speed its expansion. In
November, the company agreed to buy Alain Mikli and created an
atelier division that includes brands such as Oliver Peoples,
 Paul Smith , Alain Mikli and Starck Eyes. Luxottica is focusing
on growth opportunities in  Southeast Asia , particularly in
 Indonesia  and  Thailand , Guerra said.  “Indonesia is a huge market that’s growing fast,” the CEO
said. “ Vietnam  is a new option on our table.”  Luxottica’s emerging-market sales increased 26 percent in
2012. The company said it has witnessed a shift in demand for
premium and luxury brands, especially in so-called “gateway and
mega cities” and “high potential channels such as travel
retail and department stores.”  Luxottica  rose  3.6 percent to 35.56 euros in Milan trading
today. The earnings were announced after markets closed.  Sunglass Hut  New sales channels are growing faster than traditional
retail outlets, the company said. “Department stores, in
particular, remain the primary point of reference for premium
sunglass consumers and offer significant growth potential.”  The owner of the Sunglass Hut and LensCrafters chains will
continue to invest by expanding the specialty businesses
internationally in both the optical and sunglass segments.  Luxottica proposed a  dividend  of 58 euro cents a share, up
from 49 cents last year, with a total payout of 273.5 million
euros, equivalent to half of the company’s net income.  Regarding the euro’s rebound against the dollar this year,
Guerra said he was more concerned about “volatility” than
exchange rates. “A rate of $1.15 to $1.25 would be proper but
we’re happy with $1.31.” The euro fell versus the dollar today
after the Netherlands said its  budget deficit  will breach the
European Union’s limit for this year and 2014. The currency
weakened to $1.31 at 4:45 p.m. London time.  Luxottica shares have risen about 14 percent this year, the
fourth-best performance in the  benchmark FTSE Index  and giving
the company a market value of about 16.8 billion euros.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Dan Liefgreen at 
 dliefgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  