-- Vale Ore-Shipping Costs More Than Double as Miner’s Fleet Grows
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2013-02-28T13:32:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/vale-ore-shipping-costs-more-than-double-as-miner-s-fleet-grows.html
Brazilian miner  Vale SA (VALE3)  more than
doubled spending on maritime freight in the fourth quarter as it
shipped more of the steel-making commodity on its own expanding
fleet of the world’s biggest iron-ore carriers.  The largest iron-ore exporter’s spending on maritime
freight rose to $387 million, $242 million more than the prior
three months, the company said late yesterday in a statement.  Of the 39 million metric tons of iron ore and pellets sold
in the fourth quarter, 46 percent was shipped on a so-called CFR
basis,  Vale  said. Under CFR contracts, the final price includes
the cost of freight, with Vale paying to deliver the commodity
to the buyer. That compares with 40 percent for all of 2012.  Vale is spending $2.3 billion to build its own 19
Valemaxes, the world’s biggest-ever ore carriers that each hold
400,000 tons, more than twice as much as conventional ships, to
manage its shipping costs to Asia, its biggest market. The miner
will control a fleet of 35 of the vessels under long-term deals
including a 25-year contract valued at $5.84 billion with STX
Pan Ocean Co., a Seoul-based shipping firm.  Three new Valemaxes started trading in the last quarter,
with the fleet of 26 ships used to transport iron ore from
 Brazil , data from IHS Fairplay compiled by Bloomberg show. The
first vessel dates back to May 2011.  Vale paid about $158 million more than necessary for
shipping in the 19 months through December by using the largest
carriers, Alphabulk, a Paris-based marine consultancy, said in a
report that month. The amount reflects the difference in price
between using the Valemaxes, which are restricted from calling
at ports in  China , and smaller ships that are cheaper to hire,
Alphabulk said.  Ten of Vale’s second-hand ore carriers were sold to Polaris
Shipping Co. in South Korea in August, according to Vale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  