-- Oil Flowing West to Asia Pushes Vancouver Port Growth: Freight
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-02-28T16:53:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/vancouver-port-may-sell-bonds-to-fund-asia-led-growth-freight.html
The port of Vancouver, Canada’s
busiest, may issue debt to help finance the largest expansion in
its history as the country’s resource companies move to boost
shipments amid escalating Asian demand for coal, grain and oil.  Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP) , the biggest U.S. pipeline
operator;  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B) , the country’s largest diversified
mining company, and grain-handler Richardson International Ltd.
are among companies moving to increase shipments through
Vancouver’s deep-water anchorage.  “We’re seeing hundreds of millions of dollars of private
capital being invested in the gateway to create capacity,”
Robin Silvester, chief executive officer of  Port Metro
Vancouver , said Feb. 15 by telephone. The government-linked port
operator may also sell as much as C$400 million ($391 million)
of bonds to fund its share of an expansion of container-handling
capacity, he said.  Canada’s economic  growth  has been restrained by weak
exports to the U.S., its largest trading partner. Bank of Canada
Governor Mark Carney, who takes over as Bank of England head on
July 1,  has said  the country’s businesses should export more to
faster growing regions such as Asia.  The share of Canada’s exports headed to Asian markets such
as  China ,  Japan  and  India  has more than doubled to 7.9 percent
over the past 10 years, Statistics Canada data show, and the
dollar value of those shipments has increased 132 percent to
more than C$35 billion a year.  U.S. Exports  Canada’s exports to the U.S. haven’t recovered after
falling from a monthly peak of C$34.2 billion in July 2008,
before the country’s last recession. While trade with Asia has
increased, the U.S. is still the destination for almost three-
quarters of Canada’s foreign shipments.  The port’s expansion plans have drawn fire from
environmentalists and aboriginal communities concerned about
climate change, possible oil spills and the loss of agricultural
land to development. Still, the opposition hasn’t deterred
companies from pushing ahead.  The growth spurt is part of an estimated C$9 billion of
spending by the port, local municipalities, private industry and
the governments of Canada and British Columbia since 2006 to
increase handling capacity and to eliminate road and railway
bottlenecks.  ‘National Priority’  Houston-based Kinder Morgan plans to apply for approval to
double the capacity of its 1,150 kilometer (715 mile)  Trans
Mountain  oil pipeline that terminates on the south shore of
 Vancouver ’s inner harbor. Prime Minister Stephen Harper last
year called building infrastructure to ship energy to Asia a
“national priority.” A glut of crude being produced in
neighboring  Alberta ’s oil sands deposits is depressing prices
for Canadian oil, among the cheapest in the world.  Prices for Canadian oil have fallen relative to U.S. crude,
widening to a record  discount  of $42.50 a barrel on Dec. 14.
Oil-sands benchmark Western Canada Select was $25.00 less than
West Texas Intermediate Feb. 27, crimping Alberta’s revenue and
exacerbating a provincial budget deficit.  Other expansions include boosting annual container capacity
at  Deltaport , Canada’s largest shipping-container terminal, by
one third to 2.4 million 20-foot equivalent units at a cost of
C$280 million.  Neptune Bulk Terminals (Canada) Ltd.  is more than
doubling its capacity to export metallurgical coal used in
steelmaking to about 18.5 million tons a year, according to
Silvester.  ‘Long-term Expansion’  Neptune, jointly owned by Vancouver-based Teck, potash
exporter Canpotex Ltd. and agricultural-products trader Bunge
 Canada , plans to spend C$200 million.  The Neptune improvements “add capacity to the steelmaking
coal supply chain, which will support the longer-term expansion
of our operations,” Teck spokesman Chris Stannell said in an e-
mailed statement.  Teck, the world’s second-largest exporter of seaborne coal
used in steelmaking, needs more shipping capacity after boosting
output from its  mines  in southeastern B.C.  Shipments of coal and other exports rose 0.3 percent last
year to about 98.6 million metric tons while inbound containers
climbed 9.9 percent to 1.45 million TEUs, according to the
port’s  website .  Richardson International, Canada’s largest closely held
agriculture company, plans to invest C$120 million to increase
storage capacity for grains and oilseeds by 65 percent.  Grain Demand  “We’ve been operating at maximum capacity for a number of
years and grain demand is going nowhere but increasing,” Tracey Shelton, a Winnipeg-based spokeswoman for Richardson, said Feb.
25 in a phone interview. “We’re very anxious to build this
project and get moving.”  The port’s involvement in 17 separate infrastructure
projects represents a “once-in-a-generation opportunity to
build the capacity that our customers need,” Silvester said in
a Feb. 26 e-mail.  Port Metro Vancouver, which has 28 marine-cargo terminals
and is served by three railroads, may sell bonds to bring it to
its C$500 million legal borrowing limit, Silvester said.  “We are well able to finance our requirements, we may be
looking at a further bond issue sometime within the next 24
months,” Silvester said. “We may be moving up nearer that
limit over the three- to four-year horizon.”  Bond Returns  Port Vancouver’s current debt, C$100 million of 4.63
percent bonds due in April 2020, has returned investors 4.85
percent over the past year, compared with 2.96 percent for 5-10
year Canadian government bonds, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data.  The port has jurisdiction covering more than 600 kilometers
of shore from the U.S. border at  Point Roberts, Washington , to
Burrard Inlet and the lower reaches of B.C.’s Fraser River. Its
deep-sea terminals are able to handle Capesize ships, the
biggest conventional iron ore carriers, which transport about 90
percent of the commodity used to make steel. Its freshwater
facilities service the automobile and forest industries,
according to its website, and the port is also home to the
Vancouver-Alaska cruise industry.  Not everybody is supporting the expansion plans. Some
residents of  Delta, B.C.  are upset about the potential loss of
agricultural land, environmental damage and a decline in quality
of life from the expansion of Deltaport terminal, road and rail
construction and a C$2 billion proposal to build a new 2.4
million-TEU per year terminal at nearby Roberts Bank, said  Vicki
Huntington , an independent member of the provincial legislature
for the electoral area of Delta South.  “Delta is the doormat for the port of Vancouver,”
Huntington said Feb. 26. “The port of Vancouver would like
nothing better than to have Delta’s agricultural lands near the
port developed as industrial properties,” she said by telephone
from Victoria, the provincial capital.  “The port has to have the capacity to handle the transport
of the goods,” Joe Oliver, Canada’s natural resources minister,
said in a Feb. 26 interview in Vancouver, declining to speculate
on whether opposition could derail expansion plans. “What I do
know is there isn’t anything related to natural resources that
isn’t opposed by someone and often by the same people.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  