-- Venezuela Charges Opposition Leader With Misuse of Funds in 1998
-- B y   A n a t o l y   K u r m a n a e v
-- 2013-02-28T23:14:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/venezuela-charges-opposition-leader-with-misuse-of-funds-in-1998.html
Venezuelan opposition politician
Leopoldo Lopez faces as much as four years in prison for alleged
misuse of public funds more than a decade ago as President  Hugo Chavez ’s health prompts speculation about new elections.  Lopez, a former mayor of the Chacao district of Caracas,
was charged with  influence peddling  related to donations from
state oil company  Petroleos de Venezuela SA  in 1998, the
country’s Public Prosecutor’s office said in an e-mailed
statement today. Lopez was an external aide at PDVSA, where his
mother, Antonietta Mendoza, worked at the time.  “I don’t believe in the justice system or in the
prosecutors,” Lopez told reporters outside the prosecutors’
office today in Caracas. “But there’s nothing in my conscience
to make me fear them.”  Mendoza used PDVSA funding programs to start the First
Justice social foundation, which later became the political
party of opposition candidate Henrique Capriles. Lopez, a 41-
year-old Harvard University graduate, withdrew from opposition
primaries last year to support Capriles, who was defeated by
Chavez by more than 11 points in the October elections.  “This is political persecution rather than a serious
criminal case,” Jose Carrasquero, public policy professor at
Andres Bello Catholic University said by phone from Caracas
today. “Chavez’s successors are trying to assert authority by
pressuring opposing public figures.”  Vice President  Nicolas Maduro  accused Lopez of
destabilizing the country after the opposition politician said
the head of the National Assembly, rather than vice president,
has to assume power in Chavez’ absence under the constitution.  Prosecutor’s office spokesman Alexander Duarte declined to
comment when reached by  Bloomberg News .  Lopez was completely absolved by the nation’s comptroller
in 2004 of any wrongdoing related to the PDVSA donations, the
politician’s lawyer Enrique Sanchez said by phone from Caracas
today.  The charges against Lopez come as Chavez, who hasn’t been
seen publicly since undergoing cancer surgery in Cuba in
December, remains in a Caracas military hospital.  Maduro, who is Chavez’s chosen successor, is running
affairs in his absence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anatoly Kurmanaev in Bogota at 
 akurmanaev1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  