-- Venezuelans Keep Faith in Chavez Recovery After 10-Week Absence
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2013-02-28T21:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/venezuelans-keep-faith-in-chavez-recovery-after-10-week-absence.html
A majority of Venezuelans believe
President  Hugo Chavez , who hasn’t appeared in public for more
than two months since undergoing his fourth cancer operation in
Cuba, will recover from his illness.  About 57 percent of the self-declared socialist’s
compatriots think that while he isn’t cured of cancer, he will
eventually defeat the disease, said Luis Vicente Leon, president
of polling company Datanalisis. About 27 percent think he won’t
get better while 2.8 percent think he could be dead already and
1 percent think he was never ill in the first place, Leon said
today in Caracas.  Chavez, who won a third re-election in October after
telling Venezuelans he was “totally free” of cancer, returned
to Caracas Feb. 18 after more than two months of treatment in
Cuba and was immediately transferred to a military hospital.
Given that Venezuelans expect him to recuperate, should Chavez
die the shock will be more pronounced and could generate
problems for the government currently run by Vice President
 Nicolas Maduro , Leon said.  “We’re talking about nearly 60 percent of the population
that has concrete expectations that President Chavez will
return, which generates instability for Maduro’s government when
it’s revealed,” Leon said. “The current perception of
stability is something that could be false.”  Apart from photos released this month and Twitter messages
posted to Chavez’s account upon arrival, the 58-year-old leader
hasn’t been seen in public since traveling to  Havana  in December
for his fourth cancer surgery in 18 months. No images of
Chavez’s return to Caracas were broadcast and the government
said he isn’t able to speak after doctors performed a
tracheotomy to aid breathing, fueling speculation among
investors that he won’t be able to finish his term in office.  Under  Venezuela ’s constitution, if Chavez dies or steps
down an election must be held within 30 days. While announcing
Dec. 8 that he required further surgery to treat his cancer,
Chavez anointed Maduro as his successor and called on
Venezuelans to vote for the former bus driver and union leader
in the event that he didn’t survive the operation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  