-- Vermont State Retirement System Doubles Commodity Target
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-02-28T19:44:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/vermont-state-retirement-system-doubles-commodity-target-1-.html
The  Vermont  State Retirement
Systems, with $3.67 billion in assets, said it will double the
allocation to commodities to 4 percent from 2 percent, shifting
money out of profitable high-yield bond investments.  The fund will transfer $73 million into commodities by
April 1, bringing the total to $146 million, said Stephen Rauh,
chairman of the investment committee. High-yield allocations
will drop to 4 percent from 6 percent, he said. The Bank of
America Merrill Lynch Global High Yield Index showed returns of
13.3 percent in the past year.  Now is a “good time to take a little money off the table”
from high-yield assets and to boost holdings of commodities,
which have lagged behind other assets recently, Rauh said today
by telephone. The Montpelier, Vermont-based fund views raw-
material investments as part of its long-term inflation hedge,
he said.  Since the 2008 financial crisis, the committee has been
doing a “pretty dramatic restructuring” of the portfolio to
improve its diversification and downside protection make the
assets less volatile, Rauh said. The fund began its commodity
allocation in January 2010, Matt Considine, the director of
investments for the state of Vermont, said by telephone, citing
fund data.  “We’re trying to build in more downside protection in the
portfolio, and adding commodities initially as part of this
restructuring process was a step in that direction,” Rauh said.
After a “modest commitment” to commodities, the committee
better understands how raw materials fit into the portfolio and
can act as a diversifying asset, he said.  The Vermont pension committee manages the assets of
pensions for state employees, teachers and municipal employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  