-- Vietnam Stocks Rise Most in 3 Weeks as Inflation Concerns Ease
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-28T06:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/vietnam-stocks-rise-most-in-3-weeks-as-inflation-concerns-ease.html
Vietnam ’s  stocks  gained the most in
three weeks after a government decision to keep petroleum
product prices unchanged eased inflation concerns.  The VN Index advanced 2 percent to 475.21 at the trading
break in  Ho Chi Minh City , heading for the biggest gain since
Feb. 6. The gauge rallied for a second day after slumping 3.9
percent on Feb. 26, the largest plunge in six months. The index
has lost 1 percent this month, bound for the first monthly loss
since November.  Bao Viet Holdings (BVH)  surged by the 7 percent daily
limit, poised for a record gain. Ocean Group jumped 5.7 percent.  The government won’t raise retail prices of petroleum
products including gasoline to ensure economic stability and
keep inflation under control, it said in a Feb. 26 statement.  “The news about unchanged gasoline prices helped ease
investor concerns about inflation,” Nguyen Hoai Nam, Hanoi-
based deputy head of research at Maybank Kim Eng Securities
Joint-Stock Co., said by phone. “Recent drops also made some
stocks very cheap and attracted buyers.”  Inflation slowed in February as consumer prices climbed
7.02 percent compared with 7.07 percent in January, according to
data from the General Statistics Office on Feb. 23.  Monetary
policy  will be “cautious and flexible” because several factors
could cause high inflation to return, central bank Governor
Nguyen Van Binh said on Feb. 21. Price growth peaked at 23.02
percent in August 2011.  The  VN Index (VNINDEX)  dropped on Feb. 26 on speculation foreign
investors are slowing purchases of stocks. The measure slid 3.7
percent on Feb. 21 amid rumors an executive at Bank for
Investment & Development of Vietnam had been arrested. The
company later denied the rumors.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  