-- Virgin Media, BSkyB Must Block File-Sharing Sites: Judge
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-02-28T13:35:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/virgin-media-bskyb-must-block-file-sharing-sites-judge.html
Virgin Media Inc. (VMED) ,  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ,  BT Group Plc (BT/A)  and other U.K. Internet
service providers must block access to three music file-sharing
sites, a court ruled.  Users and operators of KAT, H33T and Fenopy infringed 10
music companies’ copyrights “on an industrial scale,” Judge
Richard Arnold said in a written ruling handed down today. The
record labels included  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s British unit.  The U.K. music industry has had some success pressing
providers to block or restrict access to so-called BitTorrent
sites to protect dwindling revenues. Last year a U.K. court
ruled The Pirate Bay, based in Sweden, was used to infringe
copyrights and ordered four ISPs to block it.  “The growth of digital music in the U.K. is held back by a
raft of illegal businesses commercially exploiting music online
without permission,” Geoff Taylor, chief executive officer of
the British Recorded Music Industry group BPI, said in an e-
mailed statement. “Blocking illegal sites helps ensure that the
legal digital market can grow.”  An e-mail sent to the press room of KAT, the full name of
which contains an expletive, didn’t receive an immediate
response.  Virgin Media “supports the clear, legal framework put in
place to protect against copyright infringement and we continue
to comply with court orders specifically addressed to the
company,” the company said in an e-mailed statement.  BT said in an e-mailed statement it has consistently stated
copyright infringement is wrong and copyright holders should use
the courts to enforce their legal rights. It will comply with
the ruling.  The case is: Emi Records Limited & Ors v. British Sky
Broadcasting Limited & Ors, U.K.  High Court  of Justice,  Chancery
Division , case no. HC12F04958.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  