-- Vitol’s Energy Trading Revenue Rose 2% to $303 Billion in 2012
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-02-28T14:07:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/vitol-s-energy-trading-revenue-rose-2-to-303-billion-in-2012.html
Vitol Group, the world’s largest
independent oil trader, said revenue increased by 2 percent to
$303 billion last year and that the firm is still considering
asset purchases.  The company traded 261 million metric tons of crude and
refined products, down 4.4 percent from 273 million in 2011, it
said in a statement on its website today. Vitol, based in
Geneva, is evaluating a “variety of new investment
opportunities in the midstream and downstream energy sectors,”
which typically comprise refining, transportation and storage
facilities.  “The solid trading result in 2012 fully reflects our
underlying trading performance,” Chief Executive Officer Ian Taylor said in the statement. Still, an increasingly competitive
trading environment is placing “additional pressure on
margins,” he said.  Global oil demand growth in 2013 will remain “constrained
by the continued economic struggles of many of the weaker
European economies,” Vitol predicted. This year’s 1 million
barrel-a-day increase in world consumption will be outpaced by
growth of 1.5 million barrels a day in supplies outside the
 Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries , the company said.  Vitol competes in the oil market with closely-held traders
such as Trafigura Beheer BV, Gunvor Group Ltd. and Mercuria
Energy Trading SA and listed companies such as Glencore
International Plc, BP Plc and Royal Dutch Shell Plc.  Cressier Refinery  A Vitol Group venture, Varo Holding SA, last year bought
the 68,000 barrel-a-day refinery in Cressier, Switzerland from
insolvent Petroplus Holdings AG. The acquisition “underpins
Vitol’s expansion into the regional product markets,” according
to today’s statement.  “New capacity planned to come online later in 2013 is
expected to exceed the growth in demand we are forecasting, so
we expect refinery margins to be somewhat lower later this year
after an unexpectedly strong first quarter,” Taylor said.  Turning to fuel shipping, Vitol said that the so-called
dirty market would be “severely challenged” because long-haul
crude oil movement is expected to decline just as the supply of
tankers increase.  “On the clean side of the market the outlook is a little
brighter as we expect to see greater products exports out of
both the Middle East and the US Gulf Coast which may contain the
impact of the increase in supply somewhat,” the company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  