-- Wal-Mart’s Massmart Sees Slower Growth as Credit Debt Climbs
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2013-02-28T16:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/wal-mart-s-massmart-sees-slower-growth-as-credit-debt-climbs-1-.html
Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM) , the African
food and general goods retailer controlled by  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT) , has seen an increase in the use of credit cards that may
weigh on sales, Chief Executive Officer Grant Pattison said.  “The carry cost of debt is eating into disposable
income,” Pattison said in a phone interview from Johannesburg
today. “We expect to see customers paying back debt, rather
than extending further debt” in 2013.  Massmart is among several South African retailers to say
that rising credit payments toward the end of last year may lead
to a prolonged slump in consumer spending.  Truworths
International Ltd. (TRU) , South  Africa ’s biggest clothing retailer by
market value, said unsecured lending has led to higher debt
levels, while  Shoprite Holdings Ltd. (SHP)  said fuel-price increases
and labor unrest will curb spending in the first half of 2013.  Massmart’s profit fell 23 percent to 691.8 million rand
($78.2 million) in the six months through Dec. 23 because of
weaker  consumer confidence  and the costs of selling control to
Wal-Mart, the Johannesburg-based company said in a statement.  Its foreign-exchange loss in the period was 76.7 million
rand, down from 82.4 million rand profit a year earlier. The
benefits of a stronger rand against Massmart’s African basket of
currencies was “overshadowed” by the losses of the Malawian
kwacha, the company said. The kwacha depreciated 49 percent
against the rand last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Donkey Meat  Massmart is taking food safety “seriously” and will start
to conduct testing on products it sells after a study this week
found unlabeled donkey, goat and water buffalo in unspecified
South African retailer products, Pattison said.  “Testing won’t be a significant cost,” he said. “It’s
not really a food safety issue, but a trust issue.”  Sales climbed 15 percent to 36.1 billion rand in the half
year and were 11 percent higher compared with a year earlier in
the eight weeks to Feb. 17, Massmart said.  The stock was unchanged as 186.50 rand in Johannesburg.
About 786,000 shares traded, almost three times the three-month
daily average.  One-time charges in Massmart’s first half included 205
million rand related to the 2011 sale of a 51 percent stake to
 Bentonville , Arkansas-based Wal-Mart, Pattison said. Integration
costs accounted for 65 million rand, with 140 million rand spent
to top up the Supplier Development Fund, a requirement set by
South Africa’s Competition Appeal Court as part of its approval
of the deal.  New Sites  Wal-Mart integration-related costs will drop to about 50
million rand annually over the next 12 months, Pattison said.
“Now that the Wal-Mart integration is behind us I will be
spending time figuring out how to do food retail in Africa and
to find a solution in e-commerce,” he said.  Profit at Game Africa, which excludes Massmart’s domestic
South Africa market, is climbing well ahead of total sales,
Pattison said. Several new sites have been approved in existing
African markets and Massmart will enter Angola and  Kenya  through
fiscal 2014.  The retailer declared a first-half  dividend  of 2.75 rand a
share, up 9.1 percent from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  