-- Wallabies Will Get Three-Week Window to Prepare for Lions Series
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-02-28T08:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/wallabies-will-get-three-week-window-to-prepare-for-lions-series.html
Australia  will pull Wallabies squad
members out of Super Rugby to give them three weeks to prepare
for this year’s Test series against the British and Irish Lions.  A squad of 25 will go into camp from June 2 ahead of the
series-opening Test in Brisbane on June 20, the Australian Rugby
Union said today. The nominated players will also be unavailable
for their Super Rugby teams’ matches against the Lions in the
leadup to the best-of-three contest.  “The primary objective is for the Wallabies to win the
three-Test series and preparation is crucial,” ARU Chief
Executive Officer Bill Pulver said in an e-mailed statement.
“The Lions will be battle hardened, make no mistake.”  The Lions, a combined team from the U.K. and Ireland that
tours every four years, last visited Australia in 2001, when the
Wallabies secured a 2-1 victory. The Lions haven’t won a Test
series since beating South Africa in 1997.  The Lions will play all five Australian Super Rugby teams
during their 10-game trip, which opens June 1 against the
Barbarians in Hong Kong. Their first match in Australia is June
5 against the Western Force in Perth.  Wallabies whose teams are involved in the Super Rugby games
between the ACT Brumbies and Queensland Reds on June 7 and the
New South Wales Waratahs against the Force two days later may be
released to play, Pulver said.  “If those Super Rugby matches have significant bearing on
the competition standings, and finals spots are at stake, the
ARU will take that under serious consideration,” he added.  The initial 25-man Wallabies squad will have additional
players added June 10 following those two matches, the ARU said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  