-- Westfield Retail Slumps by Most in a Year as Lowys Sell Stake
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-02-28T23:55:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/westfield-retail-slumps-by-most-in-a-year-as-lowys-sell-stake.html
Westfield Retail Trust (WRT) ,  Australia ’s
second-biggest property trust, headed for its biggest loss in a
year after the family of Westfield Group founder  Frank Lowy  sold
its  stake  at a discount yesterday.  The  shares  slumped 3.8 percent to A$3.06 at 10:35 a.m. in
Sydney, headed for the biggest drop since Feb. 9, 2012. The Lowy
Family Group sold A$663.7 million ($678 million) worth of shares
at A$3.09 a security after the close of trade yesterday.  “The decision of a long-term and wise investor to reduce
its exposure to Australian shopping centers raises questions
about the future direction of capital values,”  Richard Jones , a
Sydney-based real estate analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote
in a note yesterday downgrading the stock to neutral from
overweight. “The Lowy exit clears the path for Westfield Group
to sell down an additional 25 percent in assets it owns 50:50
with Westfield Retail,” and raise about A$4.3 billion, he said.  Westfield Retail was  spun off  from  Westfield Group (WDC)  in
December 2010 to own stakes in the mall operator’s Australian
and New Zealand properties, to free up the bigger company to
pursue developments overseas. LFG held the second-biggest stake
in the A$9.4 billion retail trust in the name of Lowy’s son and
Westfield Group co-Chief Executive Officer Steven Lowy,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Lowy Family Group is run by Lowy’s oldest son David and
manages the family’s investments. UBS AG was managing the share
sale, according to a sale document seen by  Bloomberg News .  Profit Decline  Westfield Retail this week reported a 2.2 percent decline
in  net  income in the year ended Dec. 31. Westfield Group said
rents on new specialty store leases at its Australian and  New
Zealand  malls held jointly with the retail trust were 2.5
percent lower than expiring leases.  “As the largest shareholder in the Westfield Group, the
Lowy family’s interest and continuing commitment remains
unchanged,” LFG said in a regulatory filing yesterday.
“Through Westfield Group, LFG retains a significant investment
in Westfield’s superior shopping center portfolio in Australia
and New Zealand.”  Westfield Group shares declined 0.5 percent, compared with
a 0.7 percent decrease for the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  