-- Why You Should Care About That $83 Billion Bank Subsidy
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-02-28T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/why-you-should-care-about-that-83-billion-bank-subsidy.html
Our estimate that taxpayers provide
an $83 billion annual subsidy to the largest U.S. banks has
provoked a lot of debate. Amid the arguments over methodology,
the most important points may be getting lost. So here they are:
The subsidy is too large, it is bad for the economy, and the
best way to deal with it is through measures such as increased
capital requirements.  The subsidy comes in the form of lower borrowing costs,
which large banks enjoy because creditors expect the government
to bail them out in an emergency. We  assumed , in consultation
with a co-author of an International Monetary Fund working paper
on the subject, that the funding advantage amounts to 0.8
percentage point over the longer term, and that applying the
number to banks’ total liabilities is the best way to get at its
dollar value.  Reasonable people can make different assumptions and arrive
at different answers. The economists Frederic Schweikhard and
Zoe Tsesmelidakis  estimated  the subsidy was about $32 billion a
year for the bond debt of U.S. banks alone, from 2007 through
2010. Andy Haldane, a senior official at the Bank of England,
 put  the subsidy at $60 billion a year for the five largest
global banks, from 2007 through 2009. A. Joseph Warburton and
Deniz Anginer, respectively of Syracuse University and Virginia
Tech,  found  that the subsidy for the largest U.S. banks went
from less than $10 billion in 2004 to more than $100 billion in
2009. Ed Kane of Boston College  put it  at $300 billion for 2009
alone.  Exact Size  The subsidy’s exact size is less important than its
effects. By providing an extra measure of insurance to banks
that have the potential to tank the economy, the government
encourages them to become as threatening as possible. In other
words, the desire to mitigate crises undermines the market
discipline that would otherwise keep banks from getting so big.  The repercussions of taxpayer support for banks are far-
reaching. To steal a thought from a previous  editorial , if you
subsidize corn farmers, you get too much corn. If you subsidize
banks, you get too much credit. As of September, the total debts
of households, companies and governments in the U.S. stood at
2.5 times annual economic output, up from 1.3 times in 1980.
While it’s hard to say what the right level should be, the
recent credit-related crises in the U.S. and Europe suggest
we’re pushing the outer limits.  What can be done about the subsidy? Some efforts to
quantify it have been aimed at designing a tax that would
extract reimbursement from the banks. This would probably be too
blunt an instrument. It would punish some institutions too
harshly, because the size of the subsidy can differ for
individual banks, depending on how much they rely on government
support.  A better approach would be to make banks less likely to
need taxpayer bailouts. Doing so would automatically reduce the
subsidy precisely in proportion to its size for any given bank.
The cost to well-run banks would be lower than the cost to banks
taking big risks at taxpayers’ expense.  The most effective subsidy-reducing tool is capital -- that
is, the equity shareholders put into the enterprise, as opposed
to the money banks borrow to augment their investments. Equity
absorbs losses, making banks less likely to require taxpayer
support in an emergency.  Research from the Bank of England  suggests  that if banks
had $1 of shareholder equity for each $5 in assets, the benefits
would outweigh the costs. Current global rules require just $1
in equity for each $33 in assets. In their new  book , “The
Bankers’ New Clothes,” economists Anat Admati and Martin Hellwig
explain in detail how higher levels of equity would benefit the
financial system and the economy.  Subsidy Curb  Another subsidy curb, already used in Ireland and Spain, is
to require some creditors to take losses when banks get into
trouble. Investors would then demand a higher yield to
compensate for the added risk of lending to big banks, removing
some of the funding advantage. Also, the pending Volcker rule in
the U.S. and financial ring-fencing measures in the U.K. pare
down the subsidy by preventing large universal banks from using
it to finance speculative trading.  We’ve established that the largest global banks receive a
big taxpayer subsidy. Even Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke agrees, judging from his  statements  to the Senate this
week. Let’s move on to the question of what to do about it.  (For more on this subject, see our original  editorial  and
our  initial  and  further  responses to critics.)  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 