-- Why Democrats Must Get Smart on Entitlements
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2013-02-28T23:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/why-democrats-must-get-smart-on-entitlements.html
In a season of depressing budget
news, the worst may have been that a majority of U.S. House
Democrats signed a letter urging President  Barack Obama  to
oppose any benefit cuts to Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid
and other entitlements. That’s the last thing we need.  To hold the line on harmful cuts to  discretionary spending ,
Obama and the Democrats must educate the public about the
necessity of entitlement reform. Otherwise, the poor and needy -
- largely spared by the automatic reductions under sequestration
-- will get hit much harder down the road.  Liberals are right to reject Republican proposals that
would slash social-welfare programs even as they refuse to
consider closing tax loopholes for the wealthy. And I agree that
the sequestration will cut into the bone of important government
functions and investments in the future.  That makes two more reasons to start talking seriously
about how we will pay for the insanely expensive retirement of
the baby boomers.  How expensive? Anyone reaching retirement age in the next
20 years (including me) will take more than three times as much
out of Medicare as he or she contributed in taxes. By 2030, the
U.S. will have twice as many retirees as in 1995, and Social
Security and Medicare alone will consume half of the  federal
budget , with the other half going almost entirely to defense and
interest on the national debt. It’s unsustainable.  Saying Goodbye  If Democrats don’t want to talk about these programs, they
can say goodbye to every other pet program. We can preserve
Medicare in amber only at the expense of investments in
prekindergarten programs or cancer research.  To reform entitlements, we should assess what these
programs were meant to do in the first place.  For starters, Presidents Franklin D. Roosevelt and Lyndon B. Johnson didn’t call them entitlements. Jimmy Carter’s
administration borrowed the term from “Anarchy, State and
Utopia,” a 1974 book by Robert Nozick, a political philosopher.
“Entitlement” sounds selfish and at odds with the dignity and
peace of mind that Social Security and Medicare are meant to
provide.  It distorts the animating idea behind these programs, which
is social insurance.  FDR didn’t have strong feelings about benefit levels,
retirement ages or eligibility standards. He focused on what he
called guaranteed return. By that he meant that having paid into
the system through a kind of insurance premium (though in fact
it was merely a payroll  tax ), Americans should rest easy that
some money would be there for them if they lived long enough to
need it. The whole point was “insurance against need.”  “Guaranteed return” and “insurance against need” should
continue to be the two guiding principles of social-insurance
reform.  “Guaranteed return” means no privatization or voucher
system for these programs. FDR would have strongly opposed
President George W. Bush’s plan to allow Social Security
contributions to be invested in the stock market. He thought
subjecting retirement income to what he called “the winds of
fortune” was a breach of the social contract. Imagine what would
happen to someone who retired in 1929 or 2008? No guaranteed
return.  “Insurance against need” suggests keeping the focus on poor
and middle-class recipients who depend on the money most. That
means means-testing, giving wealthier retirees less. FDR, who
favored high levels of taxation on the rich, would have been
fine with taxing their benefits, too, as long as they were
guaranteed to get at least something back.  Old Argument  Liberals generally oppose means-testing social-insurance
programs. For decades they’ve argued that if the wealthy don’t
get a heaping portion of Social Security and Medicare, it will
undermine the political support of the programs and turn them
into a form of welfare. Once that happens, the theory goes, the
programs will be ended.  Like the word entitlements, this hoary idea should be
retired. Social Security and Medicare are now so deeply in the
marrow of the American middle class that they will never be seen
as welfare. The question is not whether to reform them, but how.  Roosevelt structured Social Security as an insurance
program with “contributions” through the tax code “so no damn
politician can ever take it away.” He didn’t specify anything
about the level of taxation or cost-of-living increases, which
weren’t an issue in the 1930s but would become one shortly after
World War II.  Today, only the first $110,000 in income is subject to the
7.65 percent tax that pays for Social Security and Medicare.
Lifting the cap to higher income levels (say $250,000 or
$400,000) could eventually generate hundreds of billions of
dollars.  Republicans consider this a tax increase. That’s only true
outside the context of these programs. The change could be
structured so that no one paid in more than actuarial tables say
they would take out. That would still raise billions and be
consistent with the idea of paying for your own retirement if
you can afford it.  For lifting the cap to have any chance, it would have to be
matched by reforms such as adopting the chained consumer-price
index, a new way to measure cost-of-living adjustments that
Obama apparently favors. Liberals oppose chained CPI because it
would theoretically result in lower benefits. But less frequent
cost-of-living increases aren’t the same as cuts, especially if
the current system is, as many experts believe, based on an
inaccurate assessment of inflation.  Maybe there are better ideas for reforming social
insurance. The point is, we better start talking about them.
Otherwise, grandpa and grandma and their fellow Grateful Dead
fans are going to eat all the food on the table.  (Jonathan Alter is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 