-- Won Advances Most in Week on Current Account; Bonds Rise
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 2013-02-28T01:25:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/won-advances-most-in-week-on-current-account-bonds-rise.html
South Korea’s won rose to a one-week
high as local manufacturers’ confidence improved and Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the bank’s stimulus
policies were working, encouraging risk-taking. Bonds declined.  The Kospi index rose 1.2 percent after Bernanke said the
Fed’s bond-buying is having “meaningful and beneficial
effects.” Italian government bonds advanced after demand
increased at a debt sale following inconclusive election results.
South Korean manufacturers’ confidence for March climbed to 76
from 72 for February, the  Bank of Korea  said in a statement
today. That was the highest level since July.  “Investor concerns eased somewhat, pushing stocks and the
currency up, after Bernanke’s comments and the Italian bond
sale,” said Jeon Seung Ji, an analyst at Samsung Futures Inc.
in Seoul. “Exporters’ dollar sales are also supporting the won,
while further gains in the won will be limited due to still-
lingering concerns that political uncertainty in  Italy  may
prompt a worsening of the  European debt crisis .”  The won climbed 0.3 percent to 1,081.40 against the dollar
as of 9:45 a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency touched 1080.90, the strongest level
since Feb. 20, and has gained 0.7 percent this month. One-month
implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the  exchange
rate  used to price options, dropped five basis points to 7.3
percent.  South Korean industrial production rose 7.3 percent in
January from a year earlier, the most in more than a year,
official data showed today. Output unexpectedly fell 1.5 percent
from the previous month as production of semiconductors and
electronic components dropped off, indicating some companies may
be scaling back due to the won’s recent rally.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent  government bonds 
due December 2015 was steady at 2.63 percent, Korea Exchange Inc.
prices show. The yield has fallen 14 basis points this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  