-- Yingluck Seeks Bangkok Win as Opposition Weakens: Southeast Asia
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2013-02-28T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/yingluck-seeks-bangkok-win-as-opposition-weakens-southeast-asia.html
Thai Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s party is on course to win Bangkok’s governor
election for the first time, dealing a blow to opponents aligned
with royalist groups who have held the capital since 2004.  Pongsapat Pongcharoen, a former deputy police commissioner,
is leading in polls for the March 3 election to run the  city  of
about 7 million people. He is challenging Governor Sukhumbhand Paribatra, a member of the opposition Democrat Party and a
great-grandson of former King Chulalongkorn.  A ruling party victory would further weaken the opposition
and add to pressure on Democrat leader  Abhisit Vejjajiva , whom
Yingluck unseated as prime minister 18 months ago by winning a
parliamentary majority. It would also boost Yingluck’s brother,
 Thaksin Shinawatra , who was ousted as prime minister by the
military in 2006 and is seeking an amnesty to return to Thailand
after fleeing a jail sentence on charges stemming from the coup.  “We’re looking now at the next two elections, certainly
the next election and probably the one beyond, where the
Democrats still don’t have a team that can beat Thaksin’s
machine,”  Thitinan Pongsudhirak , a professor at  Chulalongkorn
University  in Bangkok, said by phone. “Thaksin will be
emboldened if Pongsapat wins, but I don’t think that increased
confidence is going to be enough for him to make a new bid to
return.”  The Democrats won the past three Bangkok governor elections
dating back to 2004 by more than 10 percentage points. In
national elections in 2007 and 2011, the party won at least 75
percent of Bangkok’s 36 seats. In 2005, before the coup,
Thaksin’s party won 32 of 36 constituencies in the capital.  Pongsapat Leading  While polls have varied widely in the run-up to the
governor election, most show Pongsapat in the lead.  He topped Sukhumbhand by seven percentage points in a
 Bangkok University  survey of 1,637 people from Feb. 11 to Feb.
17. About 18 percent of respondents were undecided in the poll,
which had a margin of error of three percentage points.  Pongsapat held a one point lead in a National Institute of
Development and Administration survey of 1,458 people on Feb. 18
and Feb. 19, within the five-percentage-point margin of error.
About 37 percent of respondents were undecided, more than either
major candidate received.  Bangkok covers an  area  twice the size of  New York  City and
accounts for about a  third  of Thailand’s economy. Households in
the capital earned about 24,000 baht ($805) per month in 2007,
almost double the average in other parts of the country,
according to the most recent  data  on the National Statistical
Office of Thailand’s website.  $2 Billion Budget  Bangkok and Pattaya, a resort town on the Gulf of Thailand,
are the only localities that hold direct elections for their
leaders. Still, the governor’s ability to tackle Bangkok’s
traffic and pollution problems are limited.  The  Interior Ministry , which appoints governors in
Thailand’s 76 provinces, oversees the Bangkok Metropolitan
Administration. The governor controls a budget of about 60
billion baht, or about 40 percent of what Jakarta spends to run
 Indonesia ’s capital.  Pongsapat, 57, says the sparse funds make it necessary to
have close ties with the national government. He touted his
relations with Yingluck in campaign speeches while promising
free bus rides, more frequent trash collection and better
sidewalks for Bangkok’s pedestrians. Along with Thaksin, he
holds a doctorate degree from  Sam Houston State University .  “Everything I promise is possible,” Pongsapat told
supporters while campaigning on Jan. 21. “As long as Yingluck
is our prime minister, solving problems for Bangkok will be done
at full force.”  Deadly Protests  The Democrat party, whose founders include royal
descendants, backed protesters who took over Bangkok’s airports
in 2008 to oust Thaksin’s allies.  After Sukhumbhand, 60, took office in 2009, Thaksin’s
supporters twice cordoned off parts of the city in an effort to
remove Abhisit, who took power a year earlier after a court
disbanded the ruling party using a constitutional clause
inserted after the coup. Protests in 2010 killed more than 90
people and spawned arson attacks on malls and office buildings
after Abhisit declared so-called “live-fire zones” in central
Bangkok.  The following year, in the months after Yingluck’s victory,
 Thailand ’s worst flooding in 70 years inundated parts of
Bangkok, including Don Mueang airport. Sukhumbhand clashed with
Yingluck over managing the floodwaters, which shuttered more
than 800 factories and disrupted global supply chains.  Flood Defenses  Sukhumbhand has promised to bolster the city’s flood
defenses, build more parks, extend mass transit lines and
install more closed-circuit television cameras to fight crime if
he wins another four-year term. In campaign speeches, he vowed
to protect Bangkok’s interests when they conflict with the aims
of Yingluck’s government.  “I will fight for you,” Sukhumbhand said at a Feb. 22
rally in Bangkok’s Minburi district. “I will not give in or bow
down to any people even though they have so much power.”  Abhisit, who is campaigning for Sukhumbhand, became
Democrat party leader in 2005. He has presided over two straight
defeats in national elections and faces murder charges for his
role in dispersing the 2010 protests. He denies any wrongdoing.  “We stood side by side with you in Bangkok during those
difficult times and rebuilt the capital city,” Abhisit said in
a video message to supporters yesterday. “This election is very
important because Bangkok is not just a city -- it’s the capital
and the economic and financial center.”  An election loss for Abhisit’s Democrats will trigger calls
to revamp the party, according to  Daniel Giles , a director at
Vriens & Partners, a Singapore-based political risk firm.  “It should lead to some soul-searching,” he said. “The
Democrats’ failure to reform and seeming lack of ability to
widen their appeal is a big concern for the future of Thai
democracy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  