-- ThyssenKrupp Offices Raided in German Auto Steel Probe
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-02-28T18:33:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/thyssenkrupp-offices-raided-in-german-auto-steel-probe.html
ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) ,  Germany ’s biggest
steelmaker, said an antitrust watchdog in the country raided its
offices in the western city of Duisburg today.  ThyssenKrupp doesn’t tolerate antitrust violations and will
support the Federal Cartel Office’s investigation of steel
supplies to the automotive industry, the Essen, Germany-based
company said in a statement on its website.  The regulator raided four offices of three companies as
well as apartments in the probe of suspected illegal deals
between suppliers of semi-finished products and strip steel, the
Federal Cartel Office said in an e-mailed statement today.  ThyssenKrupp last year ousted three board members in an
effort to repair a boardroom tainted by corruption allegations
and an ill-fated expansion in the Americas. Today’s raids add to
the company’s involvement in an elevator cartel and a suit for
damages by Germany’s state-owned railway operator over alleged
fixing of prices for rails by ThyssenKrupp and two peers.  “We are in the process of implementing a full-scale change
to the leadership culture at ThyssenKrupp,”  Heinrich Hiesinger ,
the steelmaker’s chief executive officer, said in his company’s
statement. “I take this very seriously. Anyone who doesn’t
cooperate has no business working for us.”  Police supported 19 officials from the watchdog in raids
across three German states, according to the statement from the
Bonn-based regulator, which didn’t identify the companies
involved.  While the raids are based on the suspicion of antitrust law
violations, they serve to gather information and don’t mean the
affected companies or people involved have engaged in
wrongdoing, according to the regulator’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  