-- Zoomlion Suspends Sanitation Unit Sale After Getting No Bids
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-02-28T11:42:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-28/zoomlion-suspends-sanitation-unit-sale-after-getting-no-bids.html
Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science &
Technology Co. (1157) ,  China ’s second-biggest construction equipment
maker, suspended the sale of its sanitation business after
failing to get any offers for almost a year.  A further announcement on the sale plan will be made later,
Zoomlion said in a  filing  to the Hong Kong stock exchange today,
without giving a timeframe. The company got a notice from Hunan
Province United Assets and Equity Exchange that there were no
offers as of today, it said.  Zoomlion said in March last year it wanted to sell its 80
percent stake in the unit, which makes street sweepers and
garbage trucks, as developing the business would divert funds
from its construction-equipment operations. The Changsha, Hunan
province-based company had extended the deadline for public bids
at least five times since then.  Shares of Zoomlion rose 1.4 percent to HK$10.24 at the
close in  Hong Kong  trading before the announcement. The stock
has slumped 13 percent after Hong Kong’s Ming Pao Daily first
reported on Jan. 8 that it had received an unsigned letter
alleging Zoomlion’s sales are exaggerated. The company has
repeatedly denied all allegations.  Environmental and sanitation machinery accounted for 6
percent of the company’s sales in 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Concrete machinery contributed 46 percent
of revenue.  Zoomlion Chairman Zhan Chunxin and other executives would
join with Hony Capital Ltd. to bid for the sanitation-unit
stake, the equipment-maker said last year. A regulator had told
Zoomlion there should be at least five bidders in the auction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  