-- 
New ‘Call of Duty’ Tests Holiday Dominance

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-11-08T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-08/-call-of-duty-begins-eighth-tour-in-test-of-holiday-dominance.html
Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) ’s “Call of
Duty” video-game juggernaut may sell more copies today with the
new “Modern Warfare 3” installment than its biggest holiday
competitor, “Battlefield 3,” did in one week.  The eighth “Call of Duty” may sell as many as 6 million
copies in 24 hours starting today and 18 million units by Jan.
1, Arvind Bhatia, a Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. analyst in Dallas
who recommends buying Activision shares, said.  Electronic Arts
Inc. (ERTS) ’s latest “Battlefield” went on sale Oct. 25 and sold an
estimated 5 million units worldwide in its first week.  Investors may expect five-day revenue of at least $750
million from “Call of Duty,” said  Michael Pachter , an analyst
with Wedbush Securities in  Los Angeles  who also recommends the
stock. “Call of Duty: Black Ops” sold 5.6 million copies its
first day last year and generated $650 million in worldwide
sales in five days, according to Activision.  “It’s an annual franchise and it outsells everything
around it,” Pachter said. The latest version costs $59.99.  GameStop Corp. (GME) , the Grapevine, Texas-based retailer,
planned midnight “Call of Duty” sales at 4,400 stores. Orders
topped last year’s version and are the highest for any title
this year, said Bob McKenzie, senior vice president of
merchandising.  Activision’s Infinity Ward is embarking on its first
release without Jason West and Vince Zampella, founders of the
studio and creators of the franchise in 2003.  Legal Dispute  Chief Executive Officer Bobby Kotick fired West and
Zampella in March 2010 for breach of contract. Both sides have
filed lawsuits. Activision may take some flak from game
reviewers critical of the company’s handling of the dispute, who
may retaliate with lower ratings, Pachter said.  “The only people who are going to care about the founders
leaving are the game reviewers,” Pachter said. “They will take
it out on Activision because they don’t like how they were
treated. My guess is it’s going to be great.”  Higher game scores from reviewers typically lead to
stronger sales. “ Black Ops ,” from Activision’s Treyarch
studio, was the top-selling packaged game in the U.S. last year,
according to NPD Group Inc., a Port  Washington , New York-based
research group.  “Battlefield 3” is expected to reach 8.5 million units
for Redwood City, California-based Electronic Arts this holiday
period, the estimate of  Doug Creutz , an analyst with Cowen & Co.
in  New York .  Activision is trying to boost sales with the simultaneous
release of an online subscription called “Call of Duty Elite.”
Users who pay $49.99 annually get new downloads, videos,
strategy guides and other features at no added cost.  Console games such as “Call of Duty” represented Santa
Monica, California-based Activision’s largest business,
accounting for 52 percent of 2010 revenue of $4.45 billion.
Multiplayer online games are second at 28 percent.  Activision rose 1.3 percent to $13.74 yesterday in New York
and has gained 10 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  