-- Manchester City Wins With Late Barry Goal, Arsenal Move to Third
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-12-22T19:28:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-22/manchester-city-wins-with-late-barry-goal-arsenal-move-to-third.html
Manchester City defeated Reading 1-0
with a late Gareth Barry goal to move within three points of the
top of English soccer’s Premier League, while Arsenal climbed
into third place with a 1-0 win at Wigan.  Barry muscled past the defenders of last-placed Reading to
score in the 92nd minute. City now has 39 points after 18
matches, three behind  Manchester United , which plays at Swansea
tomorrow.  Arsenal captain Mikel Arteta scored a second-half penalty
to get the win at Wigan, while Everton won 2-1 at West Ham in a
game with two red cards. Tottenham couldn’t get past Stoke,
finishing 0-0 at home, Newcastle beat Queens Park Rangers 1-0,
Sunderland won 1-0 at Southampton and West Brom defeated Norwich
2-1. Liverpool beat Fulham 4-0.  Reading held City for most of the game before Barry knocked
past Nicky Shorey to head in the ball. It was the midfielder’s
first goal since August 2011.  “You have to be patient, but if we had scored one goal in
the first half it would have changed the game,” City manager
 Roberto Mancini  said in a broadcast interview. “You need to
score quickly in these games and sometimes you take a risk to
score. I think we deserved to win.”  Reading has nine points after 18 games, and is six points
behind Southampton in 17th place. Manager Brian McDermott said
the referee got the call wrong.  “That goal at the end is just wrong,” McDermott said. ‘He
is on Nicky Shorey’s back and it is an absolutely certain foul.
That decision today has killed us.”  Penalty Kick  Arsenal got a second half penalty to defeat Wigan. Jean
Beausejour brought down Theo Walcott in the Wigan area and
Arteta converted the penalty kick in the 60th minute. Wigan
appealed for a handball a few minutes from the final whistle at
the DW Stadium, but was turned down by referee Jon Moss.  “It was a tough game and Wigan can surprise a lot of
teams,” Wenger said. “Once we were 1-0 up it was all Wigan but
we were well organized.”  Arsenal’s third victory in a row pushes the Gunners into
third place after 18 games with 30 points, one more than
Chelsea, which has played two fewer matches, meets  Aston Villa 
tomorrow. Everton, Tottenham and West Brom also have 30 points
after 18 matches.  Wigan has lost six of its last eight matches, and are in
18th place, sitting in the relegation zone for the third
straight Christmas.  Injury Time  At West Ham,  Carlton Cole  scored in the 14th minute to put
the home side ahead, and was sent off for a high challenge after
Victor Anichebe tied the game in the 64th minute.  Steven Pienaar 
scored in the 73rd minute to move Everton into fourth place.
Referee Anthony Taylor dismissed  Darron Gibson  in injury time to
leave both sides with 10 men.  West Brom got goals from Zoltan Gera and Romelu Lukaku to
end a five-hour period without scoring after trailing 1-0 to
Norwich.  Steven Fletcher  scored in the first half at Southampton and
Sunderland held on to move four points above the relegation
zone.  Newcastle got an 81st-minute goal from Shola Ameobi to give
 Harry Redknapp  his first defeat as manager of QPR, which is in
19th place with 10 points.  Liverpool got goals from  Martin Skrtel ,  Stewart Downing ,
 Steven Gerrard  and  Luis Suarez  to beat Fulham at home. The Reds
moved up to 8th place, even on points with Stoke and Norwich.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  