-- Argentine GDP-Linked Euro Bondholder Seeks to Join Appeal
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-12-22T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-22/argentine-gdp-linked-euro-bondholder-seeks-to-join-appeal.html
A holder of Argentine GDP-linked
euro bonds asked a U.S. court of appeals for permission to
intervene as a nonparty in a lawsuit by holders of defaulted
bonds against the country.  ICE Canyon LLC, a Los Angeles-based firm that holds or
manages 417 million euros ($550 million) in bonds linked to
 Argentina ’s gross domestic product, filed a request yesterday
with the court in New York to be heard in the country’s appeal
of a November order that it pay holders of defaulted bonds if
it’s going to pay holders of restructured bonds.  The investment management firm said it has interests that
are distinct from those of holders of other euro-denominated
Argentine exchange bonds, who earlier sought to intervene in the
case, because the securities it holds only get paid when
Argentina’s gross domestic product meets certain targets.  “No party or intervenor appears to hold the GDP-linked
securities affected by the November 21 orders, and those
securities are materially different, in ways that may impact the
outcome on appeal, than the exchange bonds held by the other
entities whom this court already has permitted to intervene,”
ICE Canyon said.  U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa in  Manhattan  ruled Nov.
21 that Argentina had to pay $1.3 billion claimed by holders of
the defaulted debt into an escrow account by Dec. 15 if it made
about $3 billion in scheduled payments on the restructured debt
this month. The rulings sparked a rout in Argentine bonds and
caused Fitch to cut ratings on the country’s debt.  Investor Support  Argentina is appealing Griesa’s decisions, supported by
investors who participated in two debt restructurings.  Bank of
New York Mellon  Corp., the trustee for the restructured bonds,
has also asked the court for permission to participate in the
appeal.  ICE Global said in its filing that the GDP-linked
securities affected by Griesa’s order have no nexus to the U.S.,
are governed by English, Welsh or Argentine law, and are paid
through a paying agent in Western Europe.  The appeals court this month delayed the effect of Griesa’s
orders and set Feb. 27 for oral argument in the case.  The case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of Argentina, 12-
105, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 