-- Assad Refuses to Quit, Won’t Get Moscow Asylum, Russia Says
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-12-22T14:29:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-22/assad-refuses-to-quit-and-won-t-get-moscow-asylum-russia-says.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
refuses to step down and won’t be offered asylum in Moscow to
help persuade him, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said.  “Assad has no intention of quitting,” Lavrov told
reporters last night on his plane back to Moscow after taking
part in a meeting between  Russia  and the European Union in
Brussels. “He refuses these proposals, whatever we might like.
Irrespective of who tells him, Russia,  China  or someone else.”  Russia, which has maintained weapons supplies to its
Soviet-era ally and blocked the demands for action through the
United Nations Security Council during the 21-month Syrian
conflict, is not planning to grant Assad a place of exile,
Lavrov said. “Russia is not inviting Assad to come here, we
have no such plans.”  Assad, whose forces have suffered recent setbacks at the
hands of the opposition, which controls mainly Sunni Muslim
areas stretching from the northeastern outskirts of the capital
to the southwest, last month vowed that he wouldn’t flee.  Syria  is “the last stronghold of secularism and stability
in the region,” Assad said in an interview with Russian state
broadcaster RT in Damascus. “I have to live and die in Syria.”  Death Toll  Russian President Vladimir Putin yesterday urged talks
between the two sides in the conflict, which has killed more
than 44,000 people since March 2011, according to the U.K.-based
Syrian Observatory for Human Rights. At least 148 people died in
fighting yesterday, including 48 in Damascus and its suburbs,
the opposition Local Coordination Committees said in an e-mail.  A car bomb exploded in in the eastern Damascus district of
Qaboun, killing five people and injuring dozens, the  Syrian
Observatory for Human Rights  said in an e-mailed statement.
Rebel forces battled with government forces in Hajar al-Aswad in
southern Damascus, the group said.  The army clashed with rebels around the city of Hama in
central Syria and in Daraya outside of Damascus, the  Syrian Arab
News Agency  reported, citing an unidentified government
official. The army also repelled an assault on a military
battalion in Shabaa outside of the capital, the news service
said.  Russia wants to avoid “chaos” in Syria after any changes
that may take place in the country, Putin said in Brussels,
distancing himself from Assad.  ‘Ensure Order’  “We aren’t advocates for the current leadership,” Putin
said. “We will work to ensure order in Syria and a democratic
system based on the popular will of the Syrian people.”  Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Mikhail Bogdanov said last
week that Assad is losing control and may be overthrown,
Russia’s first official acknowledgment that the Syrian leader’s
days may be numbered.  At the same time, Lavrov said Russia had spurned requests
from regional powers in the Middle East to facilitate the ouster
of Assad and refuses to take part in regime change in the
country. Russia has repeatedly accused Qatar and Saudi Arabia of
unleashing chaos by arming Assad’s opponents.  Russia doesn’t believe that the overthrow of the Syrian
leader would end the fighting, Lavrov said. “There are
forecasts made by Western intelligence services that the ouster
of the regime won’t lead to the end of this drama, but that a
renewed battle will be triggered,” he said.  Mediation Effort  In a bid to revive mediation efforts, Russia has invited
Lakhdar Brahimi, the joint special representative of the UN and
the League of Arab States, to Moscow next week, according to
Lavrov. Russia has also asked Mouaz al-Khatib, head of the
united Syrian opposition grouping, the National Coalition of
Syrian Revolutionary and Opposition Forces, to hold talks with
Russian representatives to discuss a peaceful solution, he said.  Negotiations are the only way to halt the increasingly
violent civil war in the country, the United Nations Independent
Commission of Inquiry on Syria said this week.  Violence has “increased dramatically” in and around major
cities, particularly Damascus, the capital, and Aleppo, the
commercial hub, the commission said in its latest periodic
update. It found numerous incidents of torture, summary
executions and attacks on cultural property.  Sectarianism has grown and tension between the Shiite and
Sunni Muslim communities in some areas is escalating, according
to the report. The sectarian lines fall most sharply between
Syria’s Alawite community, from which most of the government’s
senior political and military figures hail, and its majority
Sunni community, which broadly supports the anti-government
armed groups.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  