-- Boehner Hobbled by Losses While He Keeps Job No One Wants
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-12-22T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-22/boehner-hobbled-by-losses-while-he-keeps-job-no-one-wants.html
-  John Boehner  lost.  He lost control of his U.S. House caucus. He lost a chance
to limit the impact of tax increases to only the most wealthy.
And he lost face.  So far, he hasn’t lost his title as U.S. House speaker --in
part because “no one wants that job,” said Ron Bonjean, a
former aide to House Speaker Dennis Hastert, an Illinois
Republican. “Right now it’s a hard job to have.”  Boehner’s admission yesterday that he pulled his own
deficit-reduction proposal from consideration because he didn’t
have enough votes for it to pass is casting doubt on his
leadership skills. To successfully manage an agreement now,
Boehner, 63, will likely have to rely more on Democrats.  “It weakens the entire  Republican Party , the Republican
majority,” said Representative Steven LaTourette, a nine-term
 Ohio Republican  who is retiring after this session. “If you’re
not a governing majority, you’re not going to be a majority very
long.”  The news also wasn’t greeted well on  Wall Street . The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  yesterday retreated 0.9 percent to
1,430.15 in New York. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  slid
120.88 points, or 0.9 percent, to 13,190.84. The benchmark 10-
year Treasury note yield dropped three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.76 percent at 5 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data.  Sinking Polls  The damage to the party was evident in the results of an
ABC-Washington Post poll released yesterday, in which 53 percent
of Americans said the Republican Party needs policies that are
more focused on middle-income and lower-income Americans, while
38 percent said the party needs better leaders to sell its
policies. The telephone poll of 1,002 adults, conducted Dec.
13-16, has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.5 percentage
points.  Of course, the fiscal talks aren’t over and Boehner will
have another opportunity to achieve his aims and, potentially,
share a legacy with Obama of passing a significant deficit-
reduction plan that also curbs the rising costs of such
entitlement programs as Medicare and Social Security.  In a White House appearance yesterday, Obama said he
remains committed to reaching an agreement with the speaker, an
achievement that eluded them last summer during discussions over
raising the nation’s debt ceiling.  Brendan Buck , Boehner’s
spokesman, said his boss “will return to Washington following
the holiday ready to find a solution that can pass both houses
of Congress.”  Infuriated Members  Until Dec. 17, Obama and Boehner had been edging closer to
a deal that included $1 trillion each in  tax  increases and
spending cuts. Boehner had put tax-rate increases on the table -
- for income above $1 million a year -- which infuriated some
lawmakers backed by the anti-tax  Tea Party . That was the
proposal he pulled from the House floor on Dec. 20 rather than
see it defeated by his own caucus members.  Congress now won’t vote on the end-of-year budget issues
until after the Christmas holiday, giving lawmakers less than a
week to reach agreement to avert the automatic tax increases and
spending cuts set to take effect in January, the so-called
fiscal cliff.  “The odds go up that we go over the fiscal cliff,” said
Representative Rob Bishop of  Utah , a Republican.  Negotiating Partner  At least for now, Boehner, an Ohio Republican who’s served
for 11 terms, is reducing his role in the negotiations, which he
had been holding directly with Obama. Yesterday, he called on
Obama and Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat,
to craft legislation.  “You have to have a negotiating partner who can deliver,”
said  Ross Baker , a political scientist at  Rutgers University  in
 New Brunswick ,  New Jersey . Boehner’s failure after days of
promoting his proposal -- and publicly asserting he had the
votes to pass it -- diminishes his leverage in negotiations with
Obama, Baker said.  Former House Minority Leader Robert Michel, a Republican
who left Congress in 1995 after a serving 38 years, said
Boehner’s inability to win support of “hardliners in the
caucus” to pass the tax measure “undermines the speaker” yet
it won’t hurt his ability to keep his post.  “There is nobody to take his place,” Michel, 89, said in
an interview. “The Tea Party people couldn’t do doodly-do on
their own,” he said. “They couldn’t come up with a candidate
that would be elected by the whole Republican caucus.”  Ousted Speakers  In recent times, speakers have been forced to leave office
only when the majority of their party determines they have
“become a political liability,” said Ronald M. Peters Jr., an
Oklahoma University political scientist and author of “The
American Speakership: The Office in Historical Perspective.”  That was the case in 1989 when an ethics inquiry forced
Democratic Speaker Jim Wright, of Texas, to leave office. The
House ethics panel was investigating allegations that he had
evaded rules on outside income earned by lawmakers through bulk
sales of his book “Reflections of a Public Man.”  Likewise, a 1997 ethics inquiry into Republican Speaker
 Newt Gingrich , who was forced to pay a $300,000 penalty by the
House ethics committee after an investigation into a college
course he taught in Georgia that involved his campaign donors,
contributed to his decision to resign shortly after the 1998
election, when his party lost five House seats.  “I don’t see anything in the present lay of the land that
a majority of Republicans think that Boehner is a liability,”
Peters said. “Most people are saying the liability is the Tea
Party Republicans, not Boehner.”  Boehner Re-election  To be re-elected as speaker, Boehner needs only to receive
a majority of all the lawmakers voting, according to House
rules. That vote is scheduled to take place on Jan. 3 when the
Congress elected in November convenes.  Representative  Kevin Brady , a Texas Republican who’s a
senior member of the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee, said
he sees no “credible” threat to Boehner’s speakership.  “He’s trying to deliver the most conservative product that
gets the job done,” Brady said in an interview yesterday. “And
that’s not always easy.”  Hastert, who had a five-vote margin over Democrats during
the first two years of his speakership, said scraping together
votes was the biggest part of the job.  “I spent 90 percent of my time trying to bring people
around the table on both sides of the issue,” said Hastert, a
former Illinois congressman who was speaker from 1999 to 2007.  With that thin majority, Hastert said that every day he’d
“look over at the hole dug next to me and see my casket in
there if I didn’t get the votes.”  Boll Weevils  The last speaker to navigate a political minefield similar
to Boehner’s -- leading with a small, influential bloc of
rebellious lawmakers -- may have been Democratic House Speaker
 Tip O’Neill , who had to contend with the so-called Boll Weevils.
From 1981 to 1983, O’Neill had only a nominal majority provided
by the group, mostly Southern Democrats, who favored smaller
government and lower taxes, and often voted against O’Neill’s
plans.  The group gave Republican President  Ronald Reagan  “pretty
much what he wanted,” Rutgers’s Baker said. “They gave him a
 tax cut , they gave him a budget cut, they gave him a major
increase in defense spending.”  It wasn’t until after the 1982 election, when Republicans
lost 26 seats, “that O’Neill was basically able to recapture
his leadership,” Baker said.  Unlike O’Neill, who tolerated the Boll Weevils out of
concern they’d leave the  Democratic Party , Baker said, the anti-
tax Tea Party members have “nowhere to go” besides the
Republican Party.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  