-- BP Gulf Oil Spill Judge Approves $7.8 Billion Settlement
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-12-22T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-22/bp-gulf-oil-spill-judge-approves-7-8-billion-settlement.html
BP Plc (BP/)  and the lead lawyers
representing victims of the 2010 Gulf of Mexico  oil spill  won
approval of the economic and environmental loss portion of a
proposed $7.8 billion partial settlement of claims.  The agreement resolves most private plaintiffs’ claims for
economic loss and property damage related to the explosion of
the  Deepwater Horizon  oil rig and subsequent spill. It doesn’t
cover suits brought by the U.S. government and the states of
Alabama and Louisiana over the largest offshore oil spill in
U.S. history.  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans, who is
overseeing litigation over the spill, granted final approval to
the settlement yesterday after he considered objections to the
accord. Barbier gave preliminary approval in May.  The settlement “provides compensation to class members
that appears sufficient” to cover their losses from the spill,
Barbier said in his 125-page ruling approving the agreement.  The blowout and explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig in April 2010 killed 11 workers and sent millions
of barrels of crude leaking into the gulf. The accident prompted
hundreds of lawsuits against BP;  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the Vernier,
Switzerland-based owner and operator of the rig; and  Halliburton
Co. (HAL) , which provided cementing services.  BP officials hailed Barbier’s approval of the settlement as
a step forward in the company’s efforts to move beyond the
spill.  “We believe the settlement, which avoids years of lengthy
litigation, is good for the people, businesses and communities
of the Gulf and is in the best interests of BP’s stakeholders,”
 Scott Dean , a company spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  Uncapped Settlement  Barbier was also considering the portion of the settlement
designed to cover claimants’ physical injuries related to the
spill or the cleanup. The accord sets aside money to provide
medical monitoring of claimants’ health in the future, according
to court filings.  The proposed partial settlement of private claims was
reached March 2, days before a trial on liability for the spill
was set to begin. While BP estimates the accord to be worth at
least $7.8 billion, it doesn’t have a cap on potential
settlement claims.  “We are extremely pleased with the court’s ruling,”  Steve
Herman  and Jim Roy, the co-lead counsel for the plaintiffs, said
in a statement. “This settlement has -- and will continue to --
bring the people and businesses of the Gulf the relief they
deserve.”  Excluded Claims  The accord excludes claims of financial institutions,
casinos, private plaintiffs in parts of Florida and  Texas , and
residents and businesses claiming harm from the Obama
administration’s moratorium on deep-water drilling prompted by
the spill.  It also doesn’t cover federal government claims and those
of Gulf Coast states Louisiana and  Alabama , or lawsuits against
co-defendants.  BP has been in negotiations with the U.S. Justice
Department to settle the federal claims, the company said in an
Oct. 30 regulatory filing. BP has provisioned about $38.1
billion for spill costs and has paid more than $8 billion in
compensation to individuals, businesses and government entities
so far.  $17 Billion  The  oil company  faces a potential $17 billion fine by the
U.S. under Clean Water Act provisions, should it be found
grossly negligent for the spill. The issue of gross negligence
is set to be determined at a nonjury trial over liability for
the explosion of the Deepwater Horizon drilling and the
subsequent oil spill now set for Feb. 25 before Barbier in  New
Orleans .  BP also agreed to pay $4 billion to the U.S. Justice
Department to resolve criminal charges connected to the spill
and $525 million to settle the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission’s claim that the company misled investors about the
rate of oil flowing into the gulf.  Two BP officials face criminal charges tied to the fatal
explosion on the Deepwater Horizon rig. Federal prosecutors
contend the managers on the rig ignored indications the well
wasn’t secure before the blast that killed 11 on the vessel.  Another BP executive was charged with obstruction and
making false statements related to the size of the 2012 spill
off the coast of  Louisiana .  In approving the partial settlement yesterday, Barbier
dismissed objections from more than 13,000 spill victims who
claimed the deal underpays some claimants and unfairly excludes
others.  Lost Catches  Many of the objections to the settlement were filed by
people or businesses excluded from the agreement or from
fishermen who contend they aren’t getting enough under the
accord to compensate for lost catches.  Barbier said the economic loss zones were the result of
months of work by experts hired by plaintiffs’ lawyers to decide
which areas had legitimate loss claims.  “The economic loss zones reasonably reflect the likelihood
that a given class member suffered economic damage as a result
of the spill,” the judge wrote.  Lawyers for some Gulf Coast fishermen argued the $2.3
billion set aside for their claims was inadequate given the
potential damage to stocks of vermilion snapper and other fish.  Barbier said experts haven’t found any conclusive proof of
a collapse of snapper fisheries and the accord provides money
“to cover potential future injury.”  “Settlements are compromises,” the judge said. “The fact
that some class members wish BP had paid more compensation is no
reason to reject the settlement.”  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the  Gulf of Mexico  on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  