-- California Gay Conversion Therapy Ban Blocked by Court
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-12-22T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-22/california-gay-therapy-injunction-granted-by-appeal-court.html
Therapists who counsel patients
under 18 years of age on changing their sexual orientation to
avoid homosexuality won an emergency order from a federal
appeals court in San Francisco temporarily blocking a  California 
law that outlaws the practice.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in San Francisco granted a
request by therapist David Pickup and others who are suing to
overturn the law signed signed Sept. 30 by California Governor
 Jerry Brown , a Democrat.  ``California was correct to outlaw this unsound and 
harmful practice, and the attorney general will vigorously 
defend  this law,'' Lynda Gledhill, a spokeswoman for California 
Attorney General  Kamala Harris , said in an e-mailed statement.  The opponents of the law appealed a Dec. 4 ruling by U.S. 
District Judge Kimberly Mueller in Sacramento, who said citizens 
don’t have a right to choose a mental health treatment the state 
has deemed harmful to minors. Parents seeking the therapy can 
still get it through churches or unlicensed providers, Mueller 
said.  The appeals court didn’t give a reason for its ruling
yesterday.  “This law is politically motivated to interfere with
counselors and clients,” Matthew Staver, a lawyer with Liberty
Counsel, a nonprofit legal group representing Pickup. “This law
is an astounding overreach by the government into the realm of
counseling and would have caused irreparable harm.”  Free Speech  Another federal judge in  Sacramento , ruling in a separate
case, said a family therapist, psychiatrist and aspiring
therapist who sued to block the law are “likely to succeed” on
their claims that it violates constitutionally protected free
speech rights.  Judge William B. Shubb’s ruling barred the state from
enforcing the measure against those three people until their
lawsuit is resolved.  The appeals court granted the injunction pending the
outcome of the therapists’ appeal. The law was scheduled to take
effect on Jan. 1.  The cases are Pickup v. Brown, 12-cv-2497, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of California (Sacramento), and Welch v.
Brown, 12-cv-02484, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
California (Sacramento).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  