-- Canada’s Harper Urges Households to Trim Record Debt Levels
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-12-22T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-22/canada-s-harper-urges-households-to-trim-record-debt-levels.html
Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  added
his voice to those who are warning Canadians not to take on too
much debt, saying consumers dealing with record leverage may be
“approaching the limit” on how much they can carry.  “We continue to urge people to have caution because
eventually,  interest rates  will go up,” Harper said in an
interview with Global Television to be broadcast Dec. 23. “Many
households are well within a comfort level but some have been
pushing the envelope and we obviously urge them to be
cautious.”  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  has called mounting
 household debt  the biggest domestic risk to the economy. The
ratio of Canadian household debt to disposable income rose to a
record in the third quarter, even after Finance Minister  Jim
Flaherty  tightened mortgage rules for a fourth time in July.  Harper encouraged Canadians to balance their ambitions to
own a home with the need to save. “Watch your debt levels,” he
said. “The country is doing well but we are in a period of
considerable global uncertainty. Interest rate shocks are
possible.”  The prime minister said he’s optimistic U.S. lawmakers will
reach a temporary solution to avoid more than $600 billion in
tax increases and spending cuts set to take effect Jan. 1.  “I feel not bad about the fiscal cliff issue,” Harper
said in the interview with Global News national anchor Dawna
Friesen. Lawmakers will reach “at least some partial
compromises to avert catastrophe” during January, he said.  The “bigger challenge” for Congress is developing a
medium-term plan to reduce the U.S. deficit, he said, according
to a transcript of the interview provided by the network.  ‘Runaway Train’  “The U.S. fiscal situation, if you look at it, is a
runaway train,” said Harper. “They’re running deficits of a
trillion dollars plus and that cannot continue.”  Harper’s Conservative government this month approved  Cnooc
Ltd. (883) ’s $15.1 billion offer for  Nexen Inc. (NXY) , the largest foreign
takeover by a Chinese company. Canada also said it would permit
Petroliam Nasional Bhd.’s C$5.2 billion ($5.2 billion)
acquisition of Progress Energy Resources Corp.  Still, the government said it would permit future
acquisitions of control by state-owned enterprises of oil-sands
operators only under “exceptional circumstances.”  The Nexen sale “did not raise flags” for Canada in terms
of security issues, Harper said when asked about U.S. concerns
over Chinese state-owned companies and the potential for spying.  “The  United States  uses national security extremely
broadly,” he said. “I think it at times becomes a front for
protectionism. We try and restrict our national security
analysis to genuine threats to national security.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  