-- Leagues Qualified to Challenge New Jersey Betting Law
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-12-22T23:02:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-22/leagues-qualified-to-challenge-new-jersey-betting-law.html
Professional sports leagues can ask
a federal court to keep a  New Jersey ’s sports gambling
legislation from taking effect, a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Michael Shipp in Newark, New Jersey,
yesterday disagreed with the state and found that the
basketball, baseball, football and hockey leagues have proper
standing to sue to block sports wagering.  The sports organizations, including the  National Football
League  and  Major League Baseball , sued in August to block
betting in New Jersey, saying it would raise doubts about the
integrity of games.  The leagues opposed a law signed by Governor Christopher Christie, a Republican, in January 2012 that would permit
gambling at racetracks and Atlantic City casinos on professional
and college sports. The  National Hockey League ,  National
Basketball Association  and  National Collegiate Athletic
Association  joined the complaint.  New Jersey has said the groups lack standing to sue because
they can’t show how they would be injured by the gambling
legislation.  “For purposes of standing, Plaintiffs demonstrated, at
least by an identifiable trifle, that state-sanctioned gambling
will adversely impact how the leagues are perceived by those who
can affect their future, specifically their fans,” Shipp said
in his ruling.  Four Exceptions  A 1992 federal law bans betting in all but four states:
Nevada, Delaware, Montana and Oregon. New Jersey said in a court
filing that the law is unconstitutional.  The leagues and NCAA asked a U.S. judge to rule that New
Jersey’s law and related regulations violate the U.S.
Professional and Amateur Sports Protection Act of 1992. That law
gave New Jersey a chance from Jan. 1, 1993, to Jan. 1, 1994, to
enact sports betting. At the time, New Jersey declined.  The leagues and NCAA “cannot be compensated in money
damages for the harm that sports gambling poses to the character
and integrity of their respective sporting events,” according
to the complaint.  “The NCAA has long maintained that sports wagering
threatens the well-being of student-athletes and the integrity
of college sports,” said Stacey Osburn, director of public and
media relations, in an e-mail.  Representatives of Christie didn’t immediately return a
call after regular business hours seeking comment on the ruling.  Greg Aiello , an NFL spokesman, declined to comment on the
decision.  The case is National Collegiate Athletic Association v.
Christie, 12-4947, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey
(Trenton).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  