-- Tel Aviv Shares Beat New York on Gas Outlook: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-12-22T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-22/tel-aviv-shares-beat-new-york-on-gas-outlook-israel-overnight.html
Israeli stocks are  outperforming 
their New York-traded peers for a third year as prospects that
domestic gas output will start in 2013 bolster energy producers
listed in Tel Aviv.  The benchmark TA-25 is poised for a 12 percent annual rally
as  Isramco Negev 2 LP (ISRAL)  and  Delek Group Ltd. (DLEKG)  surged more than 24
percent on forecasts enough natural gas has been found to supply
Israel’s needs for 150 years. The  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity
Index (ISRA25BN)  of the largest Israeli companies traded in New York, which
doesn’t include the gas stocks and is dominated by technology
companies, is set for a 6.4 percent advance.  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL) 
and  Partner Communications Co. (PTNR)  were among the three worst
performers in both gauges.  The  Finance Ministry  on Dec. 16 raised its forecast for
Israel’s economic growth in 2013 to 3.5 percent from 3 percent
to include the effect of natural gas discoveries, with the
offshore Tamar field set to start production by the second
quarter next year. Cellcom and Partner, Israel’s biggest mobile
phone companies, led declines as new wireless entrants forced
incumbent providers to lower prices as they lost customers.  “The gas companies performed quite well this year as there
was more clarity on production,” Ori Licht, the head of
research at I.B.I-Israel Brokerage and Investments Ltd., said by
phone from  Tel Aviv  on Dec. 20. “While the best performers in
Tel Aviv aren’t on the New York index, the worst performers, the
telecoms, are on both.”  Bank Stocks  Israeli natural gas companies working with Houston-based
 Noble Energy Inc. (NBL)  are examining plans to develop the Leviathan
 gas field , the world’s largest find of its kind in a decade
before 2010. Israel is considering exporting a portion of the
gas to finance the projects.  The TA-25 got a lift in 2012 from banking stocks, which
also aren’t part of the U.S. gauge.  Bank Hapoalim Ltd. (POLI) , the
country’s second-largest lender and the most heavily-weighted
stock on the benchmark index, has gained 35 percent in 2012
after dropping 33 percent in 2011.  Bank Leumi Le-Israel Ltd. (LUMI) ,
the nation’s largest lender, has advanced 21 percent.  The  Tel Aviv Banking Index (TABANK)  traded at 0.58 times net assets
at the end of July, less than every financial-stock gauge
outside Europe on concern about bad loans. The shares rebounded
after falling to “ridiculously low valuations,” Zach Herzog,
the head of international sales at Psagot Investment House Ltd.,
said in a phone interview from Tel Aviv on Dec. 20.  Competition Intensifies  Cellcom, the largest mobile phone provider, has dropped 46
percent in New York while Partner, the second-largest, sank 31
percent. The emergence of low-cost mobile providers in Israel
may  reduce  Netanya, Israel-based Cellcom’s sales this year by 15
percent to $1.5 billion, according to the mean of eight
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Rosh Ha’Ayin, Israel-
based Partner’s 2012 sales will  fall  25 percent to $1.47
billion, according to the average of four predictions.  Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. (CHKP) , the Tel Aviv-based
security networks maker, has lost 10 percent this year. The
company with the largest weighted stock on the Bloomberg Israel-
US index, which doesn’t trade in Tel Aviv, retreated after
revenue growth ebbed and a new competitor entered the market.  Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX) , the Yokneam Elit, Israel-based
maker of technology used to transfer and store data, led gains
on both indexes, advancing 87 percent in Tel Aviv and 89 percent
in New York. While the maker of technology used to transfer and
store data benefited from mounting demand for its InfiniBand
products, shares pared their annual gain on concern Intel Corp.,
the world’s largest maker of chips, will take away market share.  The Bloomberg Israel-US Index posted a third week of
declines last week, losing 0.1 percent to 85.46.  EZchip
Semiconductor Ltd. (EZCH)  led the retreat, falling 7.1 percent to
$34.64. The shares of the Yokneam, Israel-based company lost 2.6
percent to 133.40 shekels, or $35.52 in Tel Aviv.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 Eobrien6@bloomberg.net  