-- Ex-SAC Manager’s Indictment Boosts Pressure to Cooperate
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-12-22T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-22/ex-sac-manager-s-indictment-boosts-pressure-to-cooperate.html
The  insider-trading  indictment of
ex-SAC Capital Advisors LP portfolio manager Mathew Martoma sets
in motion a criminal trial process that puts new pressure on him
to cooperate with the government’s investigation of the hedge-
fund firm founded by billionaire  Steven A. Cohen .  Martoma, 38, was indicted yesterday in what prosecutors
have called the biggest insider-trading case in history. The
move follows a trial in  New York  in which prosecutors presented
jurors in another case with e-mails they said showed SAC
analysts passing inside information to the firm’s fund managers.  “It’s another step on the government’s march into Cohen’s
office,”  Erik Gordon , a professor at the  University of Michigan
Law School  and Ross School of Business, said in an e-mail after
the indictment. “Given the prosecutors’ success in getting
convictions and serious jail sentences, it’s time for anyone at
SAC who is connected with insider trading to start having
nightmares.”  At issue in the Martoma case is a 20-minute phone call
prosecutors said he had with Cohen after allegedly receiving
negative test results about a drug that was intended for use by
Alzheimer’s patients. The day after the call, SAC liquidated a
$700 million position in  Elan Corp. (ELN)  and Wyeth LLC, the companies
that were promoting the drug.  Averted Losses  The government claims SAC netted $276 million in profits
and averted losses in the Elan and Wyeth trades. Cohen isn’t
alleged in Martoma’s indictment to have known Martoma had inside
information. Prosecutors have made no claims about precisely
what was said on the call.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for  Stamford , Connecticut-
based SAC, declined to comment on the indictment. Gasthalter has
said Cohen and SAC acted appropriately in making the trades.
Cohen hasn’t been charged criminally or sued by regulators in
the case.  Martoma was arrested at his  Boca Raton ,  Florida , home on
Nov. 20 and charged in a criminal complaint. The indictment
charges him with one count of conspiracy and two counts of
 securities fraud . If convicted, Martoma faces as many as 20
years in prison on the securities fraud charges and five years
on the conspiracy charge.  “Though disappointing, today’s events come as no
surprise,” Martoma’s lawyer,  Charles Stillman , said in a
statement yesterday. “The simple fact is that Mathew Martoma
did not trade on inside information, is innocent of all these
charges and we look forward to his ultimate vindication.”  Faced Deadline  Martoma rejected several bids by prosecutors for his
cooperation, according to a person familiar with the case. When
first confronted by an FBI agent in the front yard of his
mansion last year, he fainted, another person said.  Prosecutors, who faced a Dec. 26 deadline to indict Martoma
or ask the court for more time, chose to indict. The move showed
the government is turning up the heat in its efforts to get
Martoma to cooperate with its investigation of SAC, according to
 Anthony Sabino , who teaches law at  St. John’s University  in New
York.  “This is telling Martoma: You don’t want to deal with us?
Fine,” Sabino said. “You’re going to go up the river by
yourself, so think about that over Christmas.”  As in the criminal complaint, the 12-page indictment
alleges Martoma used the illegal tips to advise an unnamed
“hedge fund owner” to trade in the shares of Elan and Wyeth. A
person familiar with the case last month identified Cohen as the
fund owner.  Phone Conversation  Prosecutors said Martoma and the hedge fund owner spoke on
the phone for 20 minutes on July 20, 2008, the day before SAC
started dumping its Wyeth and Elan stock. Martoma’s testimony
about that telephone call and other contacts with Cohen
concerning Wyeth and Elan would be key to any attempt to
prosecute Cohen.  The case is assigned to U.S. District Judge Paul Gardephe,
a former federal prosecutor and in-house lawyer for  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX)  He was appointed by President  George W. Bush  and took the
bench in 2008.  The SAC e-mails were disclosed in the insider-trading trial
of Anthony Chiasson, who left SAC to start Level Global
Investors LP, and former Diamondback Capital Management LLC
portfolio manager  Todd Newman . The two men were convicted Dec.
18.  Clinical Trials  Martoma worked as a portfolio manager for CR Intrinsic
Investors in Stamford,  Connecticut , a unit of SAC Capital. The
indictment claims that from sometime in 2006 until July 29,
2008, he participated in a scheme to get inside information
about clinical trials of bapineuzumab, or bapi, a drug intended
to treat  Alzheimer’s disease . Martoma got the tips from an
unnamed cooperating witness, according to the indictment.  A complaint filed last month by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission identified the cooperating witness as Dr.
Sid Gilman, a  University of Michigan  neurologist who was head of
the safety monitoring committee for the drug trial. Martoma had
42 paid consultations with Gilman through an expert networking
firm, according to the government. Gilman worked with  Gerson
Lehrman Group , according to his curriculum vitae.  Gilman, 80, has entered into a non-prosecution agreement
and is cooperating with prosecutors.  At the beginning of the relationship, the doctor passed
along generally positive safety data about the trial, according
to the government. Martoma allegedly bought shares of Elan and
Wyeth for his portfolio. The hedge-fund owner also bought Elan
and Wyeth, based on Martoma’s recommendation, prosecutors said.  Secret Data  In mid-July 2008, the doctor passed Martoma secret data
showing that bapi failed to halt progression of Alzheimer’s in
patients in the clinical test, the U.S. said. The hedge-fund
owner, at Martoma’s recommendation, sold off almost all of the
fund’s $700 million position in Elan and Wyeth, then sold the
stock short, prosecutors claimed.  When the clinical trial results became public, shares in
both companies plunged, allowing the hedge fund to make $276
million in profits and losses avoided, according to the
government. Martoma received a $9.3 million bonus as a result,
according to the indictment.  The case is U.S. v. Martoma, 12-cr-00973, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  