-- MF Global $500 Million Pact Heralds Customer Payments
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   D a n   H a r t
-- 2012-12-22T16:29:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-22/mf-global-500-million-pact-heralds-customer-payments.html
MF Global Inc. (MFGLQ)  settled a legal
dispute with a U.K. affiliate in a deal that will bring the
failed brokerage $500 million to $600 million, allowing it to
pay customers more money after a judge approves the settlement,
a trustee said.  Announcing the agreement today with MF Global UK Ltd.,
trustee James W. Giddens said he had separately resolved
conflicting claims with the MF Global parent formerly run by  Jon Corzine , avoiding continuing litigation with the two affiliates.
He has filed a request for approval of the pacts in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan , where Judge Martin Glenn is
handling the brokerage liquidation that was spurred by the
eighth largest U.S. bankruptcy, filed in 2011.  “Resolving complex issues with these entities marks a
critical milestone in administering the MF Global Inc. estate,”
Giddens said in a statement e-mailed to Bloomberg. “We are now
focused on court approval, satisfying the conditions to the
agreements and making additional distributions.”  A U.K. trial over his $911 million in client claims against
the London-based unit had been set for April.  Giddens didn’t say in today’s statement that commodity
customers would get all of their money back, though he said the
brokerage’s fewer securities customers might do so.
Distributions would be made “as soon as possible” after court
approval of the settlements, said Giddens, who has also been
liquidating the Lehman Brothers Inc. brokerage since 2008.  Payments  He has paid the U.S.-based MF Global brokerage’s U.S. and
foreign customers about $4.9 billion since the firm failed
almost 14 months ago, and excluding the proposed U.K. pact had
$1.2 billion in hand, out of $1.4 billion in remaining assets,
according to data through Oct. 31 included in a report earlier
this month. Most of the money in hand had to be kept in reserves
because of fights with affiliates and customers, Giddens said.  Commodity customers shouldn’t expect to get paid in full
unless Giddens wins key legal battles, he said at the time.  Among other fights, he has said he expects to sue insurers
to try to recover $141 million in wheat futures losses by a
trader in 2008, unless they agree to pay. He also has joined a
lawsuit against executives including former New Jersey Governor
Corzine, who headed the parent company, and continues to
negotiate to recover more money from JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
Giddens said.  Allowed Claims  MF Global’s allowed 26,610 commodities customer claims have
a total value of about $6.7 billion, according to the recent
report. U.S. customers with allowed claims had about 80 percent
of their assets back, while those with foreign futures accounts
had received only 5 percent, the trustee said.  MF Global Holdings Ltd., the parent company, filed the
eighth-largest bankruptcy in October 2011 after a $6.3 billion
trade on its own behalf on bonds of some of  Europe ’s most
indebted nations led to margin calls. Its bankruptcy filing
listed assets of $41 billion and debt of $39.7 billion.  A trustee for the parent company,  Louis Freeh , has been
unwinding that company under Chapter 11 of the U.S.  Bankruptcy
Code  in an effort to repay creditors.  Giddens is separately liquidating the brokerage to repay
customers under the Securities Investor Protection Act. Each
trustee has conducted his own probe into how the company failed
and they have sometimes been at odds over whether certain sums
belong to creditors or customers.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  