-- Germany, Poland Sign Deal to Boost Grid Security, Power Trade
-- B y   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i
-- 2012-12-22T07:40:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-22/germany-poland-sign-deal-to-boost-grid-security-power-trade.html
Power grid operators in  Germany  and
 Poland  signed an agreement to curb unplanned electricity flows
that threaten network stability and free commercial capacity on
the cables linking both countries.  PSE Operator SA and 50Hertz Transmission GmbH will first
use a “virtual transformer” before building physical
transformers on the two cables linking the countries, the Polish
grid manager said in an e-mailed statement today.  “Building transformers will allow for more efficient use
of the Polish grid, while increasing security of the power
system in the region and increasing the capacity to absorb power
from German wind farms,” Henryk Majchrzak, chief executive
officer of PSE Operator, said in the statement.  Germany relies on Polish and Czech grids to ship record
electricity output from  wind turbines  in the country’s north to
industrial users in the south. Flows via Poland intensified
since  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s decision in 2011 to close the
country’s oldest nuclear plants after the reactor meltdowns in
Fukushima, Japan. Poland’s grid says the transformers will
protect  power lines  from overload at the same time as tripling
electricity export capacity.  The cost of the virtual transformer will be covered by the
German operator. The physical transformer on the power cable
linking Mikulowa and Hegenwerder will be installed by PSE
Operator by Nov. 30, 2015, while 50Hertz will install the device
on Krajnik-Vierraden link by Oct. 31, 2016, according to the
statement.  Transformers will allow Germany to boost exports by 500
megawatts Poland to increase shipments abroad by 1,500
megawatts, Majchrzak, said Dec. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  