-- Egypt Votes in Final Phase of Divisive Referendum
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-12-22T14:18:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-22/islamists-clash-with-opposition-before-egypt-charter-vote.html
Egyptians cast their ballots in the
final phase of a referendum on a new constitution that has
sparked clashes between Islamists and secularists, further
unsettling the country’s fitful transition to democracy.  The ratification of the constitution, which saw the
dissolution of the first panel charged with drafting it and the
threat of similar action against the second panel, was supposed
to be a milestone in  Egypt ’s rebirth after Mubarak’s regime.
What has emerged instead is a polarized nation in an economic
crisis, with a population demanding change from a president
whose secularist critics contend is seeking to cement the
Islamists’ grip on power.  “To most people, this referendum is not a vote on the
constitution; it’s a vote on the direction they want to see:
Islamist or liberal,” Mohamed Hendy, 42, said in an interview
in the Giza neighborhood of Mohandesin as he waited to cast a
“no” vote. Every time we head to the polls “things grow more
complicated and polarization increases.”  Egypt’s elections committee decided to extend voting by
four hours to 11 p.m. Cairo time, the state-run Middle East News
Agency reported.  Alexandria Clashes  On the eve of today’s vote, Islamists and those opposed to
President Mohamed Mursi clashed in the Mediterranean city of
Alexandria, leaving dozens wounded, in the latest reflection of
discontent over both the charter and what secularists and
minority Christians say is the monopolization of power by the
Muslim Brotherhood.  Roughly 25 million people in 17 of the nation’s 27
governorates are casting a “yes” or “no” vote in the second
round of the referendum. The first round was held on Dec. 15 and
yielded unofficial results showing roughly 57 percent supporting
the charter with the remainder opposing it.  Low turnout in that round -- about 32 percent --underscored
both the worries over the document that would provide a greater
role for Islamic law in the Arab world’s most populous nation
and weariness among many Egyptians who have seen little
improvement in their daily lives since  Hosni Mubarak ’s ouster
last year.  Economic Challenges  “What I want now is for the country to stabilize, people
to work, the economy to recover and investors to return,” Amin
Abdou, a 65-year-old retired engineer, said in an interview
today as he waited in line in Giza’s Imbaba district to cast his
“yes” vote. “If we say ‘no’ to the constitution, we will go
back to square one.”  Mursi, who became Egypt’s first freely elected civilian
leader when he won a presidential vote in June, this month
postponed Egypt’s application for a $4.8 billion International
Monetary Fund loan.  Egypt’s economy has struggled to rebound from last year’s
uprising, pressured by frequent strikes, civil strife and the
country’s divisive politics. Economic growth is projected to
come in at 3 percent over the next three years, less than the 4
percent needed to prevent the unemployment rate from rising,
according to U.K.-based consulting firm Maplecroft. In addition,
international reserves are down to about $15 billion, more than
50 percent below pre-uprising levels, even after injections of
cash from  Qatar .  ‘Heavy Blow’  “The combination of lower GDP growth and higher
unemployment rates will deal a heavy blow to Egyptian incomes,
which will present a huge challenge for the government as it
seeks to improve conditions,” Maplecroft said in an e-mailed
report. “In addition to concerns over the poor economic
outlook, the risk of a full-blown currency crisis is a major
worry for investors.”  “If this materializes, it could trigger a sharp sell-off
in Egyptian assets with detrimental impacts on foreign
investors’ balance sheets,” Maplecroft said.  Mursi’s efforts to push the constitution through and expand
his own powers have led to weeks of protests and sometimes
deadly clashes.  Supporters of the charter argue it will help stabilize the
country and spur an economic recovery. Critics say the charter,
which was drafted and hastily approved in a marathon session by
majority-Islamist panel, does not protect basic rights and is
opposed by enough Egyptians to make it unrepresentative.  ‘So Much Conflict’  “We can’t build the country around a constitution that has
resulted in so much conflict,” said Nader Shawqi, a 23-year-old
unemployed law school graduate who waited in line at a Giza
school to cast his “no” vote. “We have too many problems
already and this country is being torn apart.”  Fighting broke out in Alexandria before the first phase of
the referendum last week, after protesters said a preacher urged
worshipers to vote “yes” during his sermon.  On one state radio station early today, an Islamic scholar
discussing the draft with the show’s host said the religious
requirement was to vote based on an informed decision,
irrespective of whether that vote was in support of or against
the charter. The comment came as Egyptians have complained that
Islamists were using the power of the mosque to rally support
for the charter, deeming those who oppose it as “infidels.”  The Brotherhood, which fielded Mursi as its second choice
for the presidency, has struggled to deflect criticism.  Democratic Transition  Its leaders, such as Mahmoud Ghozlan, a spokesman for the
group, argue the push for the constitution is aimed at advancing
the transition and that the opposition is simply undercutting
that prospect. The umbrella National Salvation Front, an
opposition bloc, has demanded the vote be postponed.  “The upcoming phase requires understanding and dialogue
under the umbrella of the president,” the Brotherhood’s top
leader, Mohamed Badie, said after voting today.  The words rang true for some like 48-year-old Desouky
Mohamed, who cast his “yes” vote in Imbaba, a one-time
Islamist stronghold in the 1990s.  “We should all close ranks,” he said. “We can’t let a
small group of people destroy the country.”  The National Salvation Front and several rights groups say
the first round was marred by irregularities, prompting Justice
Minister Ahmed Mekky to order an investigation.  The April 6 youth group, which initially had supported
Mursi’s presidency largely in the face of its hatred for his
rival, former Prime Minister Ahmed Shafik, listed in a statement
today several alleged violations, including late openings at
some schools where the vote is being held.  Yasser El-Shimy, Middle East analyst at the Brussels-based
International Crisis Group, said he expects the “yes” margin
to widen in the second round as the two main cities, Cairo and
Alexandria, where opposition support is strongest, voted last
week.  Former presidential candidate and opposition leader Hamdeen
Sabahi told Ahram Gate that “legally, we will respect the
result of the referendum, whatever it may be.” Politically,
however, “we do not accept such a constitution for Egypt.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  