-- Kenya Coalition Picks Odinga as Presidential Candidate
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-12-22T13:21:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-22/kenya-coalition-picks-odinga-as-presidential-candidate.html
Kenyan Prime Minister Raila Odinga
will be the presidential candidate for the Coalition for Reform
and Democracy in the March 4 elections, the group said.  The east African country’s largest coalition also named
Vice President Kalonzo Musyoka, who leads the Wiper Democratic
Movement, as Odinga’s running mate. Trade Minister Moses Wetangula, chief of the FORD- Kenya  party, will become the leader
of the majority in the senate if the coalition wins, Musyoka
said in Nairobi.  “These are the flag bearers,” Musyoka said.“This is the
CORD team.”  About 47 percent of respondents in a survey by Ipsos-
Synovate indicated they will vote for the Odinga-led coalition,
the research company said Dec. 14. Odinga’s deputy, Uhuru Kenyatta, whose running mate is lawmaker William Ruto, is
preferred by 41 percent of voters, it said.  The election will be a test of Kenya’s political stability.
The last presidential vote in December 2007 was marred by
allegations of vote-rigging, triggering ethnic clashes that left
more than 1,100 dead and curbed economic growth. President Mwai Kibaki has said he will step down at the end of his second five-
year term.  About 22 percent of Kenyan voters haven’t decided which
presidential candidate to support, up from 12 percent in
November, said Tom Wolf, a consultant with Ipsos-Synovate. Voter
preferences may begin stabilizing by February, when parties
submit their final list of candidates to the Independent
Electoral and Boundaries Commission, Wolf said.  Kenyatta, a member of the most populous Kikuyu ethnic
tribe, and Ruto, a Kalenjin, along with two other Kenyans, are
facing trial at The Hague-based International Criminal Court on
charges of inciting their supporters to murder and forcibly
displace one another during the last election. All four men deny
the allegations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  