-- Natural Gas Exporting Group Seeks Coordination Over Pricing
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2012-12-22T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-22/natural-gas-exporting-group-seeks-coordination-over-pricing.html
The 13-member  Gas Exporting
Countries Forum  will practice supply and demand management to
achieve a “fair price,” the group’s secretary-general said.  “Once the majority of gas exporters agree and commit on
uniform behaviors in the market, we could be expecting desirable
decisions to be made and effective actions to be taken which is
in line with the objectives of the forum,” Leonid Bokhanovsky
said in a letter, received by e-mail, on the fourth anniversary
of the group.  GECF has been less effective than the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, OPEC, which meets twice a year to
tweak crude-oil output quotas with the aim of influencing
prices, and has been in existence since 1960. GECF’s members,
who hold almost 60 percent of the world’s gas reserves, asserted
at a summit in November 2011 that they should cooperate to raise
prices and boost supply, yet they disagree on how that can be
achieved.  Qatar’s Emir Hamad Bin Khalifa Al Thani said at a summit
last year that the group shouldn’t try to limit output while
Iran’s Oil Minister Rostam Qasemi called for the group to
develop a “market management plan.”  The majority of gas is sold in long-term contracts tied to
oil and is expensive to transport, making the market for the
fuel more regional than crude, which is mainly bought and sold
on the  spot market . GECF members defended oil-linked contracts
at their most recent meeting in  Equatorial Guinea  Nov. 21.  The volume of gas bought in Europe linked to spot prices
may exceed 50 percent for the first time next year, according to
Thierry Bros, a gas analyst at Societe Generale SA in London.
The majority of Asian gas is bought through oil-linked
contracts, while in the U.S. almost all of it is traded on
exchanges.  U.S. month-ahead gas delivered to the  Henry Hub  dropped 75
percent since July 2008, while  Brent crude  is little changed in
the same period.  GECF plans a summit for heads of state in Moscow next year
as well as a ministerial meeting in Tehran. Its members are
Algeria,  Bolivia , Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Iran, Libya,
Nigeria, Oman, Qatar, Russia,  Trinidad & Tobago , Venezuela and
the United Arab Emirates. Kazakhstan, the Netherlands, Norway
and Iraq have observer status.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  