-- Ping An Denies Funding Role for Thai Purchase of HSBC’s Stake
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-22T12:11:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-22/ping-an-denies-funding-role-for-thai-purchase-of-hsbc-s-stake.html
Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. (2318)  denied
allegations by Century Weekly magazine that the insurer’s
management may have helped fund Chinese backers of Thai
billionaire Dhanin Chearavanont in his purchase of  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA) ’s stake in the company.  Ping An management may have provided funds to allow a
Chinese investor backing the deal to repay money borrowed from
three mainland banks he controlled, the magazine’s website
Caixin Online said in an extract of the article to appear in the
Dec. 24 issue. The report didn’t name the managers involved.  “That’s an irresponsible report,” Sheng Ruisheng, Ping
An’s Shenzhen-based spokesman, said by phone today. “There
absolutely was no such a thing,” he said, referring to the
alleged involvement of the company’s management in the
acquisition worth a total $9.4 billion.  Suthana Hongthong, a Bangkok-based spokeswoman for Charoen
Pokphand Group Co., the company controlled by Dhanin that’s
buying HSBC’s stake, declined to comment on the Caixin report.  London-based HSBC said Dec. 5 it agreed to sell its 15.6
percent holding in Ping An to three indirect wholly owned units
of Charoen Pokphand in two phases. The first, comprising 20.8
percent of the shares worth about HK$15 billion ($1.9 billion)
was completed on Dec. 7. The second, consisting of 79.2 percent
of the shares, is conditional on approval from  China ’s insurance
regulator, according to an HSBC statement.  Caixin said only a third of the first payment came from
Thai investors with the remainder funded by Chinese investors.
One of the backers obtained most of his part of the funds by
borrowing from three Chinese city commercial banks he controls,
according to the Caixin report.  The money was repaid to the banks 20 days later and likely
replaced by funding from Ping An’s management, the report said,
citing allegations from unidentified people. Caixin said its own
investigations couldn’t verify the people’s allegations.  --Zhang Dingmin. With assistance from  Tony Jordan  in Bangkok.
Editors: Nerys Avery,  Bruce Grant   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net 
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  