-- Sony Said in Talks With State-Run Fund to Sell Its Battery Unit
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2012-12-23T15:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-22/sony-said-in-talks-with-state-backed-fund-to-sell-battery-unit.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  is in talks to sell its
battery business to Japan’s state-backed investment fund, said a
person with direct knowledge of the negotiations.  Innovation Network Corp. of Japan hasn’t made an offer for
the acquisition, said the person, who declined to be identified
as the information isn’t public. Taiwan’s  Hon Hai Precision
Industry Co. (2317) , the world’s largest contract maker of electronics,
has also shown interest in the buyout, the Nikkei newspaper
reported Dec. 22.  Sony’s Chief Executive Officer  Kazuo Hirai  has said he
would consider alliances for the battery unit as he seeks to
refocus the manufacturer on mobile devices including smartphones
after losses totaling $10 billion in the past four years. Sales
of the company’s Bravia TVs, PlayStation game consoles, Handycam
video recorders and Cyber-shot cameras may decline this year
against competition from overseas rivals including South Korea’s
Samsung Electronics Co.  Lithium batteries , used in smartphones, personal computers,
tablets and plug-in electric vehicles, account for the largest
portion of the global market for rechargeable cells. The
company’s market share in lithium batteries fell to 6.9 percent
in the April-June period this year, from 15.4 percent in the
first quarter 2008, according to Tokyo-based  Techno Systems
Research Co.   Battery Sales  Sony’s battery business had sales of about 142.5 billion
yen ($1.7 billion) in the year ended March, Nikkei said in a
report on the sale proposal. The unit had about 2,700 employees
as of September, according to the report.  Hiroshi Okubo, a spokesman for Sony in  Tokyo , declined to
comment as the company has made no formal announcement.  INCJ 
couldn’t be reached by phone outside regular business hours. Hon
Hai is “looking for opportunities among Japanese businesses,”
spokesman Simon Hsing said Dec. 22 by phone, declining to
comment on the report of talks.  Shares of Tokyo-based Sony have fallen 34 percent this year,
the sixth-worst performance on Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225
Stock Average, which has gained 18 percent. The company
maintained its forecast for a 20 billion-yen profit this fiscal
year as it unexpectedly posted a seventh straight quarterly loss
last month.  Sony had its  credit rating  cut to junk status last month
by  Fitch Ratings , which said slumping demand for televisions,
the strong Japanese currency and weakened economic conditions at
home and overseas will leave the electronics maker struggling to
regain technological leadership.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  