-- Venezuela’s Cabello Rules Out Possibility of New Elections
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2012-12-22T22:54:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-22/venezuela-s-cabello-rules-out-possibility-of-new-elections-1-.html
Venezuela  National Assembly
President Diosdado Cabello said today that he would not call new
elections if President Hugo Chavez is unable to be sworn in for
a new term as scheduled on Jan. 10 because of cancer treatment
in Cuba.  “Forget about January 10,” Cabello said on state
television. “The people already decided on Oct. 7. The
president of the republic is Hugo Chavez and the will of the
people should be respected.”  Venezuela would only hold new elections if Chavez, 58, said
he was unable to take office and voluntarily stepped down,
Cabello said.  Cabello first said that the inauguration date was not set
in stone on Dec. 18, and Vice President Nicolas Maduro said on
Dec. 19 that the South American country’s Supreme Court would be
able to resolve constitutional questions. Supreme Court
President Luisa Estella Morales said on Dec. 20 that the court
had jurisdiction over issues surrounding the swearing-in of a
president and would rule on the matter if asked.  Supreme Court  “For now, there is nothing to interpret because no doubts
have been submitted to the court,” she said. “The swearing-in
of a president and continuity of government are constitutional
issues and the court is in condition to rule on any question
that is brought up.”  Under Venezuelan law, if Chavez steps down before Jan. 10,
Maduro would see out the rest of the current term and then hand
over power to Cabello, who must call for an election within 30
days. If Chavez is unable to start his new term Jan. 10, but
does not step down, the National Assembly president must
determine if the absence is temporary or absolute.  “If the absence is absolute, he must call an election and
take office in that period,” Jorge Pabon, a constitutional
lawyer and former dean of the law school at the Central
University of Venezuela, said Dec. 19 in a telephone interview.  Continuing Recovery  Chavez is continuing to recover from a fourth cancer
surgery in Cuba, Maduro said today on state television. Maduro
said on Dec. 20 that Chavez was conscious and fighting a
respiratory infection.  “His recovery is consolidating with each day that
passes,” Maduro said today, without providing additional
information.  Information minister Ernesto Villegas urged Venezuelans not
to speculate about Chavez’s health, state news agency AVN said
today.  “Enough with all the lies,” Chavez’s daughter Maria
Gabriela Chavez said yesterday on her twitter account in
response to rumors that her father’s health was failing. “We’re
next to my father, alive, fighting and recovering health with
God.”  The former paratrooper first told Venezuelans he had cancer
in June 2011, after undergoing surgery in Cuba to drain an
abscess from his pelvic area, during which he said doctors
discovered a baseball-sized tumor in the same area.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  