-- Vivendi’s Universal Music to Sell Depeche Mode Label Mute to BMG
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2012-12-22T11:00:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-22/vivendi-s-universal-music-to-sell-depeche-mode-label-mute-to-bmg.html
Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s  Universal Music Group ,
the world’s biggest record company, agreed to sell its Mute
label, home to Depeche Mode, to BMG Rights Management in the
first of several divestitures after the takeover of EMI Group.  Universal, based in New York, sold the label for almost $10
million, according to two people with knowledge of the
situation. The company expects to reach agreements for
additional label sales after Jan. 1, said one of the people, who
requested anonymity because the deliberations are private.  To meet antitrust requirements, Universal Music plans to
sell 500 million euros ($659 million) of assets that include
Parlophone, home to Coldplay, the Pet Shop Boys and Tina Turner,
along with Sanctuary, the label of The Kinks and Motorhead, a
person told Bloomberg in November.  “We are confident that with our sales strategy and the
number of parties that have expressed interest in the remaining
assets, we will be able to create exactly the level of value
that we would expect from the quality of these divestments,”
Universal said in a statement announcing yesterday’s sale.  The acquisition was the second yesterday for BMG Rights, a
music publisher controlled by New York-based private equity firm
KKR & Co. BMG Rights is buying the assets that Sony/ATV Music
Publishing, jointly owned by  Sony Corp. (6758)  and the estate of
Michael Jackson, and Universal Music are divesting after their
2011 purchase of EMI from  Citigroup Inc. (C)   The Sony/ATV assets acquired yesterday represent publishing
rights to about 30,000 songs, a roster that includes works by
 Kurt Cobain  and Iggy Pop, for about $90 million.  Vivendi, which also controls  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) ,
climbed 0.9 percent to 17.01 euros in Paris trading yesterday.
The stock has gained 3.9 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Golum at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net  