-- Imported $60 Stout Opens Doors for Japan Craft Beer Revival
-- B y   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i   a n d   T e r j e   L a n g e l a n d
-- 2013-06-07T07:34:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/-60-imported-stout-opens-doors-for-japan-craft-beer-revival.html
Naoyuki Ide is betting that a  weaker
yen  will drive more Japanese people to drink his locally made
craft beers.  The president of  Yo-Ho Brewing Co.  is boosting production
capacity at the microbrewery in Nagano, central  Japan , by 50
percent this year as he anticipates the currency’s decline will
force importers to raise prices for foreign brands, giving local
craft brewers such as his a competitive edge.  “If the yen weakens more, they’ll have to increase import
beer prices in the near future,” Ide, whose company makes Yona
Yona Ale and Tokyo Black beer, said in an interview. “Import
beers cater to people’s growing taste for beer with character,
but if customers are looking for something distinct, they may
choose our beer instead, because it’ll be cheaper.”  The weaker yen and an increase in  consumer spending  may
stoke a Japanese craft-brewing boom that was already bucking a
decline in total beer sales before Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
began a campaign to stimulate the economy and end deflation.
Shipments of domestic craft beer rose 7.7 percent in the first
eight months of 2012 from a year earlier, according to Tokyo
Shoko Research, while sales at Japan’s biggest breweries fell.  Domestic shipments by the nation’s five largest beermakers,
including  Sapporo Holdings Ltd. (2501) ,  Kirin Holdings Co. (2503)  and  Asahi
Group Holdings Ltd. (2502) , dropped to a record low for the eight
straight year in 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  $60 Beer  A can of Yo-Ho’s Yona Yona Ale costs from 220 yen ($2.22)
on Rakuten, the biggest Japanese Internet retail site, compared
with 187 yen for Asahi’s flagship Super Dry brand.  Diageo Plc (DGE) ’s
Guinness Extra Stout costs from 270 yen and a Samuel Adams
Boston Lager from the  Boston Beer Co. (SAM)  starts at 345 yen.  At  Craftheads , a bar in Tokyo’s Shibuya district, prices
range from 500 yen for a 200-ml (6.8 ounce) glass of Shiga Kogen
Africa Pale Ale to 6,000 yen for a limited-edition 650-ml bottle
of  Dark Lord Russian Imperial Stout , brewed in Munster,  Indiana .  Japanese consumers are also drinking more American
microbrews. The Asian nation’s imports of U.S. craft beer soared
57 percent in 2012, according to the Boulder, Colorado-based
 Brewers Association , a trade group of small U.S. beermakers.  “Demand seems to be expanding all over the place,” said
Scott Brimmer, the brewmaster at Kawasaki, Japan-based  Brimmer
Brewing K.K. , which opened in 2011. “We’re in the right place
at the right time.”  Rising Consumption  The yen has dropped about 15 percent against the U.S.
dollar in the past six months as Abe and Bank of Japan chief
Haruhiko Kuroda try to lift the country out of an economic slump
by monetary easing. The currency traded at 96.68 yen per dollar
as of 4:22 p.m. in  Tokyo .  The nation’s gross domestic product rose an annualized 3.5
percent in the first quarter of 2012, the most in a year, with
growth in private consumption contributing 2.3 percentage
points.  Import beer volume fell to 40.7 million liters in 2012 from
42.4 million liters in 2011, while on a monetary basis imports
rose to 5.49 billion yen from 5.41 billion yen, according to
government statistics. Prices for imported beer haven’t risen
yet, suggesting retailers are absorbing the weaker yen through
lower margins, Ide said.  Sales at Yo-Ho surged 40 percent in the year ended Nov. 30,
and the company plans to double sales this year, Ide said. Set
up as a subsidiary of Hoshino Resort Co. in 1996, Yo-Ho is the
largest craft brewer in Japan, he said.  “Demand is a lot more than we expected,” Ide said,
declining to specify the amount of sales or production volume.  While a weaker yen may raise the price of imported
ingredients, material costs account for less than 10 percent of
retail prices in the industry, Ide said. For Yo-Ho, the
percentage is dropping as sales volume rises, he said.  ‘Boom in Japan’  A loosening of regulations in 1994 that lowered the minimum
production level for beermakers opened the doors to
microbreweries in Japan, according to the  Japan Brewers
Association . After an initial surge in new breweries, the number
fell to about 200 now from a peak of about 300, Ide said.  Many of the early microbreweries lacked sufficient quality
to stay in business, Brimmer said. The industry has begun to
pick up again in recent years as those who stuck with craft
brewing gradually raised the quality of their products, he said.  “This is the second microbrew boom in Japan,” said Joji
Uehara, a researcher at Tokyo Shoko Research.  Craft beers still make up less than 1 percent of Japan’s
domestic beer market, estimated Ry Beville, publisher of the
Yokohama-based Japan Beer Times, a bilingual publication
dedicated to microbrews. By comparison, they accounted for 6.5
percent of the  U.S. beer  market by volume and 10 percent by
sales last year, according to the Brewers Association.  High taxes and the need to import many ingredients make
craft brewing expensive in Japan, Beville said. Demand has
nonetheless been rising, even amid lackluster  economic growth .  More Microbrews  “People simply want choice,” Beville said. “If they’re
only going to be able to afford a couple of drinks, they want to
make it worth their while.”  The slow economy has prompted some bars and pubs to start
offering more microbrews to stand out from their competitors,
Tokyo Shoko’s Uehara said.  For some patrons, like Junya Yoshida, a 30-year-old office
worker at an advertising company, the craft brews are an
expensive treat.  “It’s a little bit of a luxury,” said Yoshida, who
ordered an Imperial Red Ale from Niigata, Japan-based Swan Lake
Beer recently at Craftheads, a craft brew and bourbon bar that
offers about 100 bottled beers and about 20 on tap. “I like
beer with rich taste, so I want to drink craft beer even if it’s
just once a week.”  Yoshida paid 600 yen for his 200-ml glass of ale, or about
six times the price of Sapporo’s Mugi to Hop, his usual drink at
home.  Wide Selection  In the U.S., the growing popularity of microbrews has led
large beermakers to acquire some smaller breweries. Japan’s
large breweries aren’t jumping on the bandwagon quite yet.  “We’re not considering it,” said Masaya Hayashida, a
general manager in the marketing department at Tokyo-based
Kirin. “We can offer our customers different options on our
own.”  Large Japanese brewers may show interest in acquiring
microbreweries as they see craft beers continue to gain in
popularity, Brimmer said.  “Probably one of the companies would try to test the
waters a little bit and see if anyone is willing to sell out,”
Brimmer said.  Like Yo-Ho, Brimmer’s is expanding to meet the growing
demand. The company plans to triple the capacity of its tanks
this year, he said.  “People from all generations are finally understanding and
enjoying the different styles of beer out there,” Brimmer said.
“It’s exciting.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Terje Langeland in Tokyo at 
 tlangeland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  