-- T-Mobile, Bayer, Monsanto, Boyd: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-06-06T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/t-mobile-bayer-monsanto-boyd-intellectual-property.html
T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS) , the fourth-largest
U.S. wireless carrier, said the International Trade Commission’s
decision to ban the iPhone 4 as part of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s patent suit
with Samsung Electronics Co. won’t disrupt sales.  “T-Mobile doesn’t anticipate any impact from yesterday’s
ITC order in terms of our current and future supply of Apple
devices,” said Anne Marshall, a spokeswoman for the Bellevue,
Washington-based mobile-phone company.  The ITC posted a notice on its website yesterday saying a
potential ban would extend to older Apple products, including
the iPhone 4 and the iPad 2 3G that work on the networks of  AT&T
Inc. (T)  and T-Mobile. The iPhone 4, which first debuted in 2010, is
one of Apple’s older models and isn’t among the top phones sold
by these carriers, according to Canaccord Genuity.  The ITC’s import-ban order is subject to review by
President  Barack Obama . The president can overturn it on public-policy grounds, though that rarely happens. Apple can keep
selling the devices during a 60-day review period.  That two-month period will bring Apple closer to the
release of the next iPhone. When a new model comes out, often
around mid-year, Apple typically pushes down the prices of its
other versions and discontinues the oldest one -- in this case,
the iPhone 4. The 3GS, released a year before the iPhone 4,
stopped being offered by carriers in 2012.  Mark Siegel , a spokesman with Dallas-based AT&T, declined
to comment on the ITC decision.  Already, the iPhone 4 is sold at rock-bottom prices by the
carriers. AT&T offers the device for 99 cents with a two-year
contract, compared with $199.99 for the iPhone 5. T-Mobile,
which sells devices using installment plans, charges an $18 down
payment for the iPhone 4 followed by $18 a month for two years.  In a filing with the agency, Samsung estimated the order
would affect about 1.4 percent of the smartphones and 2.7
percent of the tablet computers sold in the U.S.  Bayer, Merck KGaA Unit Sue Actavis Over Contraceptive Patent  Bayer AG (BAYN)  and a  Merck KGaA (MRK)  unit sued  Actavis Inc. (ACT)  in
 Delaware  over a planned generic version of the birth-control
drug Safyral.  “Plaintiffs are entitled to relief” from competition
until patent protection ends, and Actavis was aware that its
plan “constitutes an act of infringement,” lawyers for Bayer
and Merck said in the complaint.  Merck & Cie, based in Altdorf,  Switzerland , owns the
patent, and Bayer Pharma AG is the exclusive licensee, according
to the complaint. Merck & Cie is a unit of Merck KGaA, based in
Darmstadt, Germany.  Bayer and Merck asked for a ruling that Actavis, based in
Corona, California, infringed claims of patent 6,441,168, and
are seeking damages and an injunction to bar Actavis from
marketing the Safyral tablets in the U.S. before the patent’s
2020 expiration date.  Charlie Mayr, an Actavis spokesman, didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Merck & Cie v. Watson Laboratories Inc., 13-cv-00978, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Monsanto to Appeal Brazil Ruling That Soybeans Patent Expired  Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s largest seed company, said it
will appeal a ruling of a Brazil court that its patent on
modified soybeans has expired.  The  St. Louis , Missouri-based company said in an e-mailed
statement that the patent doesn’t expire until 2014.  In October 2012 Monsanto suspended royalties for its
Roundup Ready soybeans in Brazil during the pendency of
litigation about the patent term.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Boyd Gaming Sues Florida Hotel, Claims It Infringes ‘B’ Marks  Boyd Gaming Corp., operator of casinos in  Nevada  and seven
other states, sued a  Florida  hotel chain for trademark
infringement.  B Hotel Group LLC  of Weston, Florida, is accused of
infringing Boyd’s “B” trademarks. According to the complaint
filed June 4 in federal court in  Las Vegas , B Hotel operates
properties in Ft. Lauderdale and Miami.  The Florida hotel company’s “B-formative” marks infringe
Boyd’s marks, which the Las Vegas-based casino company said it
has used since 2008. They include “B Connected,” “B
Entertained,” “B Rewarded,” “B Relaxed,” “B Connected,”
“B Satisfied,” and “B Recognized.”  Boyd also used the marks in an Internet domain name,
www.bconnectedonline.com, the company said in its pleadings.  The casino company said that the hotel group attempted,
unsuccessfully, to registered a range of “B” marks itself,
including “B Pampered,” “B Social,” and “B Happy.” The
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office refused to register these, Boyd
said, because they were confusingly similar to the casino
company’s marks, and for services similar to what Boyd offered
customers.  Despite these refusals by the patent office, the hotel
company is still seeking to register other marks, including “B
Happy,” “B Wired,” “B Our Guest,” “B In Town,” “B On The
Beach,” “B Magic,” “B Indulged,” “B Wed” and others,
according to court papers.  Boyd accused the hotel company of “targeted infringement”
of the casino company’s  intellectual property . The casino
company said it has filed oppositions to the hotel company’s
trademark applications.  It asked the court to bar further infringement of its
marks, and to order the patent office to cancel registrations
for infringing marks attained or sought by the hotel company.
Additionally, Boyd asked for awards of money damages, including
extra damages to punish the hotel company for its actions, and
for attorney fees and litigation costs.  B Hotel Group didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment.  The case is  Boyd Gaming Corp. (BYD)  v. B Hotel Group LLC, 2:13-cv-00981-GMN-CWH, U.S. District Court, District of Nevada (Las
Vegas).  Walgreen ‘Teamcare’ Trademark Dispute Moved to Federal Court  Walgreen Co., the largest U.S. drugstore chain, succeeded
in having a trademark case moved from state court in Florida
into federal court.  Teamcare Pharmacy Services Inc.  of Florida’s Seminole
County sued Walgreen in state court April 30, claiming the
Deerfield, Illinois-based drugstore company infringed the
“Teamcare” trademarks. Specifically, the Florida company
objected to ads for a Walgreen store in Orlando, Florida, that
used the phrase “Team Care Pharmacy” and “Team Care” in its
advertisements.  Additionally, Teamcare objected to an automated phone
message for the Orlando Walgreen pharmacy that said “Thank you
for calling Team Care pharmacy, operated by Walgreens.”  Teamcare said it has used the term “Teamcare Pharmacy” in
Florida since 2000, and that it has been harmed by the drugstore
chain’s use of a similar phrase. Customers are likely to be
confused because of the name similarity, Teamcare claims.  The Florida company seeks money damages, and awards of
litigation costs and attorney fees, and a court order barring
further use of “Team Care” by Walgreen.  Walgreen responded to this complaint May 30 by saying in
court filings that Teamcare waited too long to file a complaint
as the drugstore chain had used the term for more than four
years, and that there has been no actual or potential confusion
between the two companies’ offerings.  Additionally, Walgreen said the term “teamcare” is
generic or descriptive, and not distinctive enough to acquire
protection under trademark law. Walgreen also claimed that the
two companies’ services weren’t competitive.  The Illinois company then asked that the case be moved to
federal court because the dispute qualified for that venue under
federal court rules. The case was refiled in federal court in
Orlando May 31.  The case is Teamcare Pharmacy Services Inc. v.  Walgreen
Co. (WAG) , 6:13-cv-08444-CEH-TBS, U.S. District Court, Central
District of Florida (Orlando).  KTM Wins Permanent Order Against South Dakota Bike Dealer  KTM-Sportmotorcycle AG, the Austrian motorcycle
manufacturer, persuaded a federal court in  South Dakota  to issue
an order permanently barring one of its former dealers from
using the company’s name in its Internet domain names.  The company’s KTM North American unit filed suit May 1
against Cycle Hutt Inc. of Mead County, South Dakota. The
dealership was accused of violating the terms of a 2004
agreement covering the use of three KTM trademarks.  Cycle Hutt refused to transfer the ktm.com domain name to
the Mattinghofen, Austria-based company and offered to sell it
for $7 million, according to court papers. When KTM refused,
litigation ensued. That case settled with the transfer of that
and other domain names and an agreement by Cycle Hutt to not use
the KTM name.  KTM on May 1 filed a new suit claiming that Cycle Huttt
transferred its business to Sturgis Cycle Hutt LLC of Sturgis,
South Dakota, which included some domain names incorporating
“KTM.”  Cycle Hutt didn’t respond to the new complaint, according
to court papers.  On May 3 the court granted a temporary order barring
further infringement of the KTM marks. The court followed this
up June 4 by issuing an order barring any use of the KTM name
and the use of “dealer” or “dealership” on any of the
defendant’s websites unless they are used in connection with an
actual dealership agreement with a third party.  In his order, U.S. District Judge Jeffrey L. Viken said
there was “no adequate remedy at law to compensate for the harm
caused” by the defendants’ business practices in handling KTM
products. The court found it “in the public interest to prevent
defendants’ unlawful trademark infringement,” he said.  The case is KTM North America Inc. v. Cycle Hutt Inc.,
5:13-cv-05033-JLV, U.S. District Court, District of South
Dakota, Western Division (Rapid City).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Fox Turns Down Ad Criticizing Commentators for Copyright Reasons  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox News has used a copyright claim to avoid
running an ad refuting critical remarks some of its male news
commentators made about a  Pew Research Center study  about
working mothers, the Washington Post  reported .  UltraViolet , a self-professed anti-sexism group, “had
tried to run an  ad  using footage of the specific newscasters and
asking for their firing,” the newspaper reported.  Fox said under its copyright rules, they couldn’t air an
advertisement that uses their own content, according to the
Post.  The 30-second ad singles out Fox for criticism and
advocacy, and doesn’t use the programming for commercial gain,
thus qualifying for copyright law’s “fair use” provisions,
Professor  Clay Calvert  of the University of Florida’s College of
Journalism and Communications told the Post.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 