-- M&S Chief Misses Maximum Bonus as Retailer’s Earnings Shrink
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-06-06T16:36:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/m-s-chief-misses-his-maximum-bonus-as-retailer-s-earnings-shrink.html
Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  Chief
Executive Officer  Marc Bolland  missed out on his maximum bonus
for a second year and didn’t receive a performance share award
amid shrinking earnings at the U.K.’s largest clothing retailer.  Bolland’s bonus of 829,000 pounds ($1.28 million)
represented only 42.5 percent of the potential maximum, the
London-based company said today in its  annual report . Potential
share awards made in 2010 will lapse after M&S failed to meet
goals for earnings per share to rise by at least 3 percent more
than the Retail Prices Index.  The CEO remained the company’s highest earning director
last year, earning 2.1 million pounds, the report shows. That
included an unchanged annual salary of 975,000 pounds. Bolland’s
salary will be frozen for a third consecutive year since he
joined in May 2010 at his own request, M&S said.  The CEO has overseen two years of falling earnings as he
ramps up investment in store formats, clothing quality and
 information systems  in an effort to boost sales. Underlying
pretax profit fell 5.8 percent to 665.2 million pounds in the
year ended March 30 as consumers spent less on fashion goods,
even as food sales increased, the retailer reported last month.  Bolland’s bonus was linked to a target for pretax profit as
well as objectives for costs and sustainability.  Marketing Director Steve Sharp, who said last month that he
plans to leave the retailer, received the second-highest
compensation of 1.4 million pounds, followed by John Dixon, the
head of the general-merchandise unit, at 1.3 million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  