-- Lab-Grown Blood Vessel Used for First Time in the U.S.
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-06-06T16:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/lab-grown-blood-vessel-used-for-first-time-in-the-u-s-.html
A 62-year-old Virginia man with
kidney failure received the first  genetically engineered  blood
vessel in the U.S., a vein that may improve his dialysis
treatments and pave the way for future tissue transplants.  The operation at  Duke University  Hospital in Durham, North
Carolina, yesterday marked the first time doctors have implanted
an “off-the-shelf” tissue graft in the U.S. The vessel, grown
with human cells on a mesh tube, has the potential to be widely
used since it was cleansed of any lingering cells that may
trigger an immune reaction, said the doctors who performed the
surgery.  The vessel was implanted into the man’s arm, giving doctors
easier access when performing dialysis. Many patients need
grafts to connect an artery to a vein to speed blood flow during
the procedure. Synthetic devices and veins harvested from other
parts of a patient’s body carry side effects that can limit
their usefulness. If the procedure is successful, man-made human
veins may be used in heart-bypass surgery.  “A blood vessel is really an organ -- it’s complex
tissue,”  Jeffrey Lawson , a vascular surgeon at Duke Medicine
who helped develop the approach and performed the implant, said
in a statement. “We start with this, and one day we may be able
to engineer a liver or a kidney or an eye.”  The implant was part of an early clinical trial approved by
the  U.S. Food and Drug Administration  that will include 20
patients. More than 350,000 Americans undergo dialysis in the
U.S. each year. Doctors in  Poland  first used genetically
engineered blood vessels in patients in  2011.  The Duke researchers worked with officials  at Humacyte
Inc. , a closely held company based in Research Triangle Park,
North Carolina, that was spun off from the university to develop
the technology. Cytograft Tissue Engineering Inc., a closely
held company based in Novato,  California , is working on a
similar approach.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  