-- Abe Pledges Campaign to Loosen Japan Business Regulations
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2013-06-06T02:07:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/abe-pledges-campaign-to-loosen-japan-business-regulations.html
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s delay in
pushing forward plans to loosen Japanese business rules
heightened pressure on the central bank to sustain confidence as
stocks extended their slump from last month’s five-year high.  Abe yesterday said autumn will be the soonest legislation
is unveiled for his growth strategy, which spans health industry
deregulation to enhanced cooperation with private businesses in
replacing aging infrastructure from waterworks to highways. The
program is what he calls the third arrow attacking two decades
of malaise, along with monetary and fiscal stimulus.  Set to chair his fourth policy meeting on June 10-11,  Bank
of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said in recent weeks the bank
had done everything necessary to spur the economy by pledging to
double the monetary base over two years. The risk for Abe and
Kuroda is persistent stock declines sap investor and public
confidence. The Topix is down 14 percent from its May high.  “If the stock market continues to slump and the yen
strengthens, Kuroda is going to be under pressure to ease
further,” said Izumi Devalier, an economist with HSBC Holdings
Plc in  Hong Kong . “But he’s been very clear that he’s not going
to do piecemeal stimulus and reacting to market moves now would
only heighten expectations for more of the same in the future.”  The Topix was up 0.2 percent at 10:55 a.m. in  Tokyo  after a
3.2 percent slide yesterday. The currency was down 0.2 percent
at 99.26 per dollar after yesterday gaining 1 percent, paring
the slide since Abe, 58, took office in December on a platform
of reviving the world’s third-largest economy.  Policy Outlook  According to HSBC, major additional stimulus is unlikely to
be debated by the BOJ before October at the earliest. Masamichi Adachi, senior economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo and a
former central bank official, said yesterday that the central
bank had only just delivered its “big bang” two months ago.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts said the main theme of
next week’s meeting may be improving communications surrounding
the intention and impact of new BOJ policies, with officials
also likely to consider extending the term of funding operations
to two years from one to counter bond-market volatility.  Ten-year yields were at 0.875 percent today, compared with
a record low of 0.315 on April 5.  The BOJ should urgently stabilize long-term rates to avoid
damaging the “precious positive trend that has developed in the
economy,” Naohiko Baba, chief  Japan  economist at Goldman, wrote
in a note.  Strategy Preview  Proper implementation of the growth strategy will counter
“stock market wobbles,” Economy Minister Akira Amari said
yesterday in Tokyo.  The timing means Abe is putting off taking on vested
interests until after next month’s election for the upper house
of parliament. He vowed yesterday to deregulate the energy,
health and infrastructure sectors and double foreign investment
in Japan to 35 trillion yen ($352 billion) by 2020.  Abe said he will raise investment in the power industry to
30 trillion yen in 10 years and triple to 12 trillion yen the
use of public-private partnerships to fund infrastructure
projects such as airports, waterworks and highways over the same
period. He didn’t address changing  labor laws  to make it easier
to fire workers.  “This will encourage all kinds of constructive private
sector activity and spark international innovation within
Japan,” Abe said. “Deregulation is the cornerstone of the
growth strategy. Japan has regulations that are out of sync with
the times.”  Urgent Reforms  Details on the most-needed reforms will be announced by the
end of August, according to a draft of the government’s growth
strategy released by the Industrial Competitiveness Council
hours after Abe’s speech. The panel, which includes Cabinet
members and business leaders, recommended restarting nuclear
plants that get approved as safe by the Japan Nuclear Regulation
Authority.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) , operator of the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, tumbled 16 percent after Abe’s speech, which
excluded any reference to when Japan may restart atomic reactors
idled after the March 2011 disaster.  Yesterday’s draft included detailed objectives, while
stopping short of spelling out how the goals will be achieved.
Officials want to double exports from small and medium-sized
companies by 2020, and more than double shipments of
agricultural products. Farming will be overhauled to reduce the
role of small-plot growers, with 50,000 agricultural
corporations by 2020.  Growth Target  The growth plan will be put together on June 12 and be
approved by the Cabinet on June 14, Deputy Chief Cabinet
Secretary Hiroshige Seko said in an interview this week. The
strategy will take time to implement and show results, Seko said.  The draft plan set a goal of 2 percent annual average
increases in gross domestic product over the next decade,
adjusting for changes in prices. Real GDP averaged 0.8 percent
growth for the past two decades, according to the  International
Monetary Fund . Nominal GDP was targeted for 3 percent gains.  Seko said Abe is still considering lowering corporate tax
rates, a topic that wasn’t addressed in yesterday’s speech. The
government is examining Economy Minister Amari’s suggestion of
lower taxes in special economic zones, which may be created in a
bid to encourage innovation.  Hiroshi Mikitani, president of online retailer  Rakuten Inc. (4755) 
and a member of the panel that published the draft growth
strategy, complained in a statement yesterday that the document
excluded reference to the tax system.  Takenaka’s View  Another panel member, Heizo Takenaka -- who earlier this
decade led efforts to resolve Japanese banks’ bad-loan crisis --
said that proposed changes for highly regulated areas such as
agriculture, healthcare and the labor market weren’t sufficient.
In a statement, he also said that questions remain on how
implementation of the recommendations will be checked.  Meantime, the government will set up a panel of experts to
examine asset management by the public pension system and quasi-public organizations. The group will report by autumn and will
look at such issues as improving returns from long-term
investment in stocks, risk control, and diversified investment,
yesterday’s draft said.  Japan’s childcare market needs urgent changes to solve the
lack of urban pre-schools, and environmental assessments for
coal-fired power stations need to be simplified, the
government’s deregulation committee said yesterday in its first
report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  