-- Hackers to Be Kept From U.S. in House Cybersecurity Bill
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-06-06T05:51:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/hackers-to-be-kept-from-u-s-in-house-cybersecurity-bill.html
Computer hackers who target U.S.
agencies and companies on behalf of countries such as  China  and
 Russia  would be denied entry into the U.S. and have their bank
accounts frozen under legislation to be unveiled today.  The measure, sponsored by U.S. Representative Mike Rogers,
calls for deporting foreign nationals who are suspected of being
cyberspies for other countries, said Kelsey Knight, a
spokeswoman for the Michigan Republican. The House bill also
would deport or bar U.S. entry to the hackers’ family members.  “This is putting a face to the criminals,” Knight said in
an interview. “If you’re a foreign agent working on behest of a
nation and participating in cybercrime, you will not be allowed
a visa into the country, nor will your family.”  Rogers, the intelligence committee chairman, will introduce
his bill a day before President  Barack Obama  meets with Chinese
President Xi Jinping, a summit where computer security is
expected to be among issues discussed. Hacking has emerged as an
irritant between the two nations, with the U.S. accusing China
of waging a large-scale campaign of cyber-espionage.  A Pentagon report in May for the first time accused China’s
military of penetrating U.S. computer networks to steal
sensitive data. Mandiant Corp., an Alexandria, Virginia-based
computer security firm, released a report in February concluding
that the  People’s Liberation Army  in China may be behind the
hacking of at least 141 companies worldwide since 2006.  China, Russia  The bill is primarily intended to stop hacking attacks
backed by the governments of China, Russia and Iran, said
Representative  Tim Ryan  of  Ohio , its lead Democratic sponsor.  “Those are the top three that we’re most concerned
about,” Ryan said in an interview. The bill should also help
Obama in negotiations with Xi, Ryan said.  “I think it’s important for him to know that we’re going
to aggressively get his back while he’s in negotiations,” Ryan
said. The two leaders are set to meet starting tomorrow near
 Palm Springs ,  California .  Under the House measure, Obama would be directed to develop
a list of hackers working under orders from other governments,
Knight said. The names would be put on the Treasury Department’s
Specially Designated Nationals list, a U.S. government database
of suspected terrorists and drug traffickers, Knight said.  None of the punishments in the bill would apply to U.S.
citizens, Knight said.  Representative C.A. “Dutch” Ruppersberger of  Maryland 
said in an interview that he doesn’t support the bill because
some of the punishments are too severe and could have negative
repercussions for the U.S. His opposition marks a rare split
with Rogers. Ruppersberger is the top Democrat on the
Intelligence panel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  