-- African Bank Rated Best Buy as Analysts Dispute Distressed Label
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-06-06T09:54:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/african-bank-rated-best-buy-as-analysts-dispute-distressed-label.html
African Bank Investments Ltd. (ABL) , which
plummeted as much as 50 percent as bad loans climbed, has the
highest percentage of analyst buy ratings of the country’s seven
largest banks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  With an average 12 month target price of more than 27 rand,
79 percent of  analysts  rate African Bank, which traded today as
high as 17.30 rand a share, a buy. That compares with 64 percent
of analysts calling its closest competitor,  Capitec Bank
Holdings Ltd (CPI) ,. a buy and 33 percent recommending  Standard Bank
Group Ltd. (SBK) , Africa’s largest lender.  “It’s the best buy among the banks in terms of the value
it could create,” said Harry Botha, a Johannesburg-based
analyst at Avior Research with an outperform rating on the
shares. “There’s still a bit of uncertainty but at these levels
you don’t really need to worry about that. The view is that it’s
not going out of business.”  African Bank’s  share price  plunged as much as 50 percent
this year, pushed lower by declining profit, rising bad debt
levels and a proposed 300 million rand ($30 million) regulatory
fine. The Johannesburg-based lender, which targets low-income
consumers with loans not backed by assets, cut its dividend 71
percent and said on May 20 conditions may worsen in the second
half of its fiscal year as higher fuel and power prices make it
harder for customers to repay debt.  “While African Bank’s results were disappointing, we think
the stock is beginning to price in a distressed scenario that we
believe is highly unlikely,” Greg Saffy, bank analyst at RMB
Morgan Stanley in Johannesburg, said in a client note. Saffy
recommends buying the shares.  Biggest Investor  The Public Investment Corp.,  Africa ’s largest money manager
with more than 1 trillion rand under management, increased its
stake in Africa Bank to more than 15 percent last month from
14.3 percent in September. The PIC had to apply to the central
bank to increase holdings beyond 15 percent, a limit set by
South African law for bank shareholders.  The PIC bought the extra shares and gained central bank
approval last month, said Markus Borner, African Bank’s
executive responsible for balance-sheet management. While the
stake has gone beyond the 15 percent limit, it doesn’t mean the
PIC would be asked to bail out the lender in a default, he said.  Since African Bank said on June 4 that the PIC increased
its stake, the lender’s share price has risen as much as 10
percent in intraday trade. It would have to gain almost 40
percent on a closing basis to reach the analysts’ price target.  “We need to see a better set of results out of the
company” before the share price will rerate, Botha said.
“We’ve forecast that African Bank has still got a bit to write
off in the second half. Next year it can improve quite
significantly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  