-- Air New Zealand Boosts Virgin Australia Stake, Seeks 3% More
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-06-06T00:07:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/air-new-zealand-boosts-virgin-australia-stake-seeks-3-more.html
Air  New Zealand  Ltd. increased its
stake to 23 percent in  Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd. (VAH) , becoming
the largest shareholder in  Australia ’s second-biggest carrier.
It may acquire another 3 percent.  Air New Zealand will consider acquiring up to a further 3
percent of Virgin Australia if it is permitted to do so under
the Australian Corporations Act, and has made an application to
the Foreign Investment Review Board, according to a statement
from the Auckland-based carrier. Air New Zealand shares dropped
0.3 percent to NZ$1.465 at 11:44 a.m. in Wellington.  Air New Zealand is the now the largest shareholder in
Virgin Australia, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Virgin Group has a 22.4 percent stake,  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) 
has 19.9 percent and Etihad Airways PJSC owns 10 percent, the
data show. Air New Zealand said it’s not seeking a position on
the board of Virgin Australia nor does it intend to take control
of Virgin Australia.  “They are defending their patch,” David Fraser, Sydney-based analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc., said by phone. “They
want to be at the table when and if Singapore Airlines pushes
for a board seat. I’d expect them to push for a board seat,
too.”  Virgin is trying to win some of Qantas Airways Ltd.’s 65
percent share of Australia’s domestic market, rolling out
business-class services while risking lower ticket prices by
adding flights in tandem with the larger carrier. It’s also
taking control of Tiger Airways Ltd.’s Australian budget airline
and rural service Skywest Airlines Ltd. Virgin last month
forecast annual profit would slip for the third time in five
years.  Trading  volume  in Virgin Australia yesterday surged as 125
million shares changed hands in three separate block trades
worth A$59 million ($56 million). Trades of 36 million shares,
of 77.44 million and of 11.2 million were carried out on Chi-X
Australia Pty and priced at 47.5 Australian cents, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The combined block trades equaled
4.8 percent of outstanding shares in the company, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  