-- AirAsia Aims to Corner 30% of Myanmar Tourists as Country Opens
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   H a s l i n d a   A m i n
-- 2013-06-06T06:31:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/airasia-aims-to-corner-30-of-myanmar-tourists-as-country-opens.html
AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) , the region’s biggest
budget airline, plans to carry as much as 30 percent of tourists
visiting Myanmar as the southeast Asian economy opens up for
foreign investment and leisure travel.  The carrier is targeting to move 500,000 passengers this
year to the country, Tony Fernandes, AirAsia Group’s Chief
Executive Officer, said in an interview in Naypyidaw, Myanmar.
The southeast Asian nation may have about 3 million tourists
this year, he said.  “We want to be 20 percent to 30 percent of that pie,”
Fernandes said in an interview with Haslinda Amin.  Myanmar President Thein Sein has allowed more political
freedom and loosened economic controls since coming to power two
years ago, prompting the U.S. and other nations to ease
sanctions and attracting companies such as Coca-Cola Co. and
 Ford Motor Co. (F)  to invest. The opening up will help add to growth
at Sepang, Malaysia-based AirAsia, which has  ordered  more than
300 aircraft with Airbus SAS as economic growth in the region
spurs travel.  AirAsia has three daily flights connecting Bangkok with
Yangon, and one daily service between the Thailand capital and
Mandalay. The airline yesterday said it will fly from Bangkok to
Naypyidaw daily starting in October.  Fernandes said further plane orders depend on the company’s
board.  “Certainly we can,” Fernandes said. “Whether we can do
or not will have to wait and see and the board will have to look
at it. The demand is there and we have to make sure that the
demand is kept.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Haslinda Amin in Singapore at 
 hamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  