-- AirAsia Japan to Add More Overseas Flights to Offset Weaker Yen
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2013-06-06T02:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/airasia-japan-to-add-more-overseas-flights-to-offset-weaker-yen.html
AirAsia Japan Co. , one of the three
Japanese low-cost carriers that started last year, is adding
more overseas flights to increase foreign-currency revenue to
offset a rise in fuel and lease costs caused by a weaker yen.  “We’re trying to balance the increase in costs with more
inbound flights from overseas,” Yoshinori Odagiri, chief
executive officer of the carrier, said in an interview in
Narita,  Japan , yesterday.  AirAsia Japan, which flies from  Tokyo ’s Narita and Nagoya’s
Chubu airports, will start daily flights to Taiwan next month
and is considering adding another overseas service before the
end of March, Odagiri said. The yen has slid 17 percent in the
past six months against the dollar, driving up expenses for
Japanese carriers as jet fuel and lease charges are priced in
dollars.  “The benefit of adding international flights is that it’s
a natural way to hedge costs,”  Ryota Himeno , an analyst at
Barclays Securities Japan Ltd. “Japan low-cost carriers are
still getting started and so there’s still plenty of room for
them to expand capacity.”  Nine Planes  AirAsia Japan, a venture between the region’s biggest
discount carrier,  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) , and Tokyo-based  ANA Holdings
Inc. (9202) , aims to be profitable in the fiscal year that starts next
April 1, Odagiri said. The airline will expand its fleet to nine
planes from four by the end of March, he said.  The carrier, which has five domestic services, will start
Taiwan flights from Tokyo’s Narita on July 3. Its current
overseas services are to Seoul and Busan in South Korea.  The airline began operations in August, following the start
of services by discount carriers Peach Aviation Ltd. and  Jetstar
Japan Co.  AirAsia Japan offers fares less than half the price of
Japan Airlines Co. and ANA.  AirAsia Japan gets about 40 percent of its sales on
international flights from overseas customers and the rest from
passengers from Japan, Odagiri said. The carrier has tied up
with travel agents in  Taiwan  to sell packages that include its
flights, he said.  The yen has plunged since November, when then-opposition
leader Shinzo Abe said the Bank of Japan should carry out
unlimited monetary easing. Abe became prime minster the
following month after his Liberal Democratic Party won a
landslide victory in parliamentary elections. Abe’s nominee
Haruhiko Kuroda became governor of the bank and unveiled plans
in April to double the money supply in two years to end
deflation.  The yen has weakened 17 percent to 99.30 as of 9:39 a.m. in
Tokyo, from 82.40 six months earlier.  The airline received a funding of 5 billion yen ($50
million) at the end of March from its founders and has no plan
for raising more money, Odagiri said.  AirAsia, based in Sepang Selangor,  Malaysia , holds 33
percent of AirAsia Japan with ANA owning the balance. ANA also
has a stake in Peach. Jetstar Japan’s shareholders include Japan
Airlines and  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Cooper in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  