-- Majority of Americans Now Favor Legalizing Gay Marriage
-- B y   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 2013-06-06T15:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/majority-of-americans-now-favor-legalizing-gay-marriage.html
Fifty-one percent of Americans favor
allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally, according to a poll
by the Pew Research Center, the first time the organization has
found majority support for same-sex weddings.  Pew also said the ranks of Americans who believe legal
 same-sex marriages  are “inevitable” increased to 72 percent,
up from the 59 percent who expressed the same view in 2004. The
poll was released as the nation awaits a U.S. Supreme Court
ruling on the legality of a 2008 California initiative banning
same-sex marriages.  The survey showed an even split on the morality of
homosexuality, with 45 percent of Americans saying it’s a sin
and 45 percent disagreeing. In 2003, 55 percent viewed it as
sinful while 33 percent didn’t. Religious people are beginning
to view the issue differently, said Rea Carey, executive
director of the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force, a
Washington-based advocacy organization.  “We’re seeing an increase in the number of progressive
people of faith who are becoming engaged in the issue,” she
said. “This is an issue of social justice and fairness, and
those are core parts of most faiths.”  Pew speculated that increased support for same-sex marriage
may be driven by the growing number of Americans who know gay or
lesbian people. About 87 percent of those surveyed said they
know someone who is gay or lesbian, an increase from the 61
percent reported in a 1993 NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll.  Almost half of Americans said a close family member or
close friend is gay or lesbian. Almost one-third know gays or
lesbians who are raising children.  Fewer Upset  Forty percent said they would be upset if they learned they
had a gay or lesbian child. A 2004 Los Angeles Times poll found
that 60 percent of Americans would be upset if they had a child
who told them they were gay.  People who said they know “a lot” of gays and lesbians
were more likely by a 68-32 percent margin to support same-sex
marriage than people who didn’t know any, Pew reported.  The biggest opposition to homosexuality is based on
religion, with 52 percent of people who believe it should be
discouraged citing religious beliefs. Another 13 percent said
homosexuality is bad for children and families.  Even so, the percentage of religious people who are
tolerant of gays and lesbians has increased. Protestants, who
discouraged homosexuality in a June 2003 Pew survey by a 57-36
percent margin, now will tolerate it by a 47-43 percent
difference. Catholics, who were tolerant in 2003 with a 62-32
percent margin, boosted the number of supporters to a 71-20
percent difference.  Black Protestants  Only black Protestants, with a 51-39 percent disapproval
margin, and white evangelicals, with a 59-30 percent difference,
thought homosexuality should be discouraged.  People who aren’t affiliated with any church were the most
tolerant, with 79 percent accepting gays and lesbians.  Americans had little trouble agreeing on the nation’s most
visible gay or lesbian figure. Thirty-two percent went with
comedienne and talk show host  Ellen DeGeneres . Seven percent
named pro basketball player Jason Collins, who became the first
person in the NBA to acknowledge being gay last month. Six
percent of Americans tabbed singer  Elton John .  Thirty-eight percent of the public couldn’t name any gay or
lesbian public figure.  The poll of 1,504 adults was taken May 1-5. It has a margin
of error of 2.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frank Bass in Washington at 
 fbass1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark McQuillan at 
 mmcquillan@bloomberg.net ;
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net  