-- Malaysia Default Swaps Climb to Four-Month High on Fed Outlook
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2013-06-06T02:35:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/malaysia-default-swaps-climb-to-four-month-high-on-fed-outlook.html
The cost of insuring  Malaysia ’s
sovereign bonds rose to a four-month high on speculation
overseas investors will trim holdings of the nation’s debt
should the  Federal Reserve  reduce stimulus. The ringgit fell.  The yield on Malaysia’s  benchmark  five-year notes dropped
eight basis points this week after climbing 25 basis points in
the five days through May 31. U.S. data are giving mixed signals
on whether the Fed will pare back its bond-buying program that’s
driven demand for emerging-market assets. A report this week
showed manufacturing contracted in May for the first time since
November, while durable goods orders released May 24 for April
beat economists’ forecasts.  “Concerns about the Fed tapering would lead to a risk of
further outflows from  emerging markets ,” said Saktiandi Supaat,
head of foreign-exchange research at Malayan Banking Bhd. in
 Singapore .  Five-year credit-default swaps rose seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 94 in  New York  yesterday, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market. That was the highest level since Feb. 5.  The yield on the 3.48 percent notes due March 2023
increased one basis point to 3.43 percent as of 10:14 a.m. in
Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  Ringgit Drops  Overseas  holdings  of Malaysian sovereign debt rose 5
percent to $46.9 billion in April, according to the latest
central bank data issued on May 31.  Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  said he would have
preferred U.S. policy makers to have started scaling back their
bond-buying program, speaking in a BNN Television interview. He
added that mortgage debt purchases should be pared back, rather
than stopped.  Labor Department data tomorrow may show U.S. companies
added 165,000 jobs in May, the same as a month earlier,
according to the median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg
survey. The ADP Research Institute reported yesterday that
135,000 positions were created last month, fewer than predicted.  The ringgit declined 0.2 percent to 3.0900 per dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It has lost 3.6 percent
over the past month, the second-worst performance among  Asia ’s
11 most-active currencies.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in exchange rates used to price options, rose 12 basis points to
7.59 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  