-- Alex Rodriguez Says He’s Monitoring Baseball Drug Investigation
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-06-06T18:32:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/alex-rodriguez-says-he-s-monitoring-baseball-drug-investigation.html
Alex Rodriguez  of the  New York
Yankees  said he’s keeping an eye on a Major League Baseball
investigation into whether a Miami-area clinic gave him and
about 20 other players performance-enhancing drugs. He didn’t
offer any details.  ESPN reported two days ago that MLB may seek 100-game
suspensions for Rodriguez and other players who may have
received performance-enhancing drugs from Tony Bosch, founder of
the Biogenesis of America LLC clinic.  Biogenesis is being sued by MLB for allegedly helping
players obtain banned drugs and damaging the sport’s reputation.
The office of MLB Commissioner  Bud Selig  declined to comment on
the ESPN report due to the active investigation. Rodriguez also
said it’s too early to comment specifically.  “Myself and others are being mentioned in a media report
before the process is even concluded,” Rodriguez said in a
statement today. “I would hope this thing would follow the
guidelines of our basic agreement. I will monitor the situation
and comment when appropriate.”  Michael Weiner , executive director of the MLB Players
Association, said yesterday that the union has been assured by
the commissioner’s office that no decisions on player discipline
will be made until all interviews have been completed.  “It would be unfortunate if anyone prejudged those
investigations,” Weiner said in a statement.  Rodriguez Linked  The Miami New Times reported in January that it had
obtained medical records from Biogenesis linking banned
substances to Rodriguez and other players. Rodriguez, a three-time American League MVP, said at the time that he wasn’t a
patient of Bosch and was never treated or advised by him.
Rodriguez acknowledged in February 2009 that he took banned
substances from 2001 to 2003 when he was with the  Texas Rangers .  Rodriguez, 37, is owed $114 million over five seasons as
part of a 10-year, $275 million contract with the Yankees, the
richest in U.S. team sports.  ESPN reported two days ago that MLB may seek 100-game
suspensions, the penalty for a second doping offense, because
the players’ connection to Bosch is one offense and previous
statements to league officials denying any such connection or
the use of banned substances would be a second offense.  Rodriguez, fifth on the major league career list with 647
home runs, hasn’t played this season following hip surgery and
said rehabilitation remains his main focus. He has been working
out at the team’s training complex in Tampa, Florida  “As I have said previously, I am working out every day to
get back on the field and help the Yankees win a championship,”
Rodriguez said. “I am down here doing my job and working hard
and will continue to do so until I’m back playing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  