-- Mali’s Army Takes Anefis in Push to Capture Touareg-Held North
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2013-06-06T09:53:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/mali-s-army-takes-anefis-in-push-to-capture-touareg-held-north.html
Mali ’s army regained comtrol of the
remote northeastern town of Anefis following clashes with armed
Touareg separatists in a push to restore government authority in
the West African country.  The military seized Anefis, 112 kilometers (70 miles) south
of the Touareg stronghold of Kidal, in order to “bring peace
and security throughout the country, facilitate the return of
the administration and the holding of elections in a secure
environment,” the government said in an e-mailed statement late
yesterday.  Anefis was held by insurgents of the  National Movement for
the Liberation of Azawad , known by its French acronym MNLA, a
separatist group that proclaimed independence in northern Mali
last year.  The MNLA condemned the “deliberate aggression” against
its positions, according to a statement published on its
website. From now on, the armed group considers itself “in a
state of legitimate self-defense and will take the necessary
military actions to push back the Malian army,” it said.  Mali’s government this week accused Touareg leaders in the
Kidal region of expelling people of different ethnic backgrounds
as part of a campaign of “ethnic cleansing.” The MNLA denied
the allegations.  The interim administration plans to hold a first round of
presidential elections on July 28 and says it can’t organize a
vote if the northeast remains under rebel control.  The U.S. yesterday called for “an urgent negotiated
resolution to Kidal” and condemned “the racially motivated
acts of detention and expulsions” in the town, according to an
e-mailed statement from the State Department.  Elections are considered necessary to reunite the country
following a France-led military campaign against groups of
Islamist militants that attempted to install Shariah law in the
north in the wake of the Touareg uprising.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pauline Bax in Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  