-- Tanzania Courts Chinese, Indian Investors for Water Projects
-- B y   S a r a   J e r v i n g
-- 2013-06-07T06:23:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/tanzania-courts-chinese-indian-investors-for-water-projects.html
Tanzania is in talks with Chinese,
Indian and Israeli companies to provide water services in
partnership with the government after a previous attempt at
privatization failed, the Water Ministry said.  China Machinery Engineering Corp. (1829)  signed a memorandum of
understanding with the state for water-supply and sewage
projects worth about $500 million in the commercial capital, Dar
es Salaam, and the northern city of Arusha, said Yohana Monjesa,
director of urban water supply. Discussions have also been held
with Wapcos Ltd. and Overseas Infrastructure Alliance Ltd. of
 India  and other companies, he said.  The ministry has been in talks since March with Kadima,
Israel-based IDE Technologies Ltd., one of the world’s three
largest manufacturers of desalination plants, about a potential
project in Dar es Salaam, Monjesa said. A pilot program is
planned, though there are no estimates on the costs, he said.  “The Ministry of Water is currently not working with the
private sector on providing water but these projects could
change that,” Monjesa said in an interview in  Dar es Salaam  on
June 5. “We are trying to promote public-private partnerships
because we haven’t seen much interest from the private sector.”  Tanzania, about a third of which is either arid or semi-arid, provides water to 86 percent of its urban population and
57 percent of its rural residents, according to the ministry.  Water Plans  The East African nation plans to increase the provision in
rural areas to 90 percent by 2025, according to a plan announced
by President Jakaya Kikwete on May 24. More than half the
illnesses contracted by Tanzanians are from water-borne
diseases, according to the government.  The main challenges the country faces in providing water
include the scarcity of the resource, which has been diminishing
with  climate change , and providing water to regions of the
country that don’t have access to surface groundwater or where
water is unfit for human consumption, Monjesa said.  The government has no plans to privatize water supply in
the near future, he said, following a dispute in 2005 with a
British company over a contract to run Dar es Salaam’s water
utility.  City Water Services, a joint venture led by Dorking,
England-based Biwater Plc and a group of investors, was awarded
a 10-year management deal to run the system in 2003. Tanzania
terminated the deal two years later, saying City Water failed to
address water shortages, expand the distribution network, or
increase revenue collection as agreed in the contract.  Case Dismissed  The International Centre for the Settlement of Investment
Disputes in 2008 dismissed Biwater’s request for $20 million
from Tanzania. The company said at the time that the tribunal
found the country violated some aspects of a bilateral
investment treaty with the U.K., which meant the company
deserved compensation.  “It is currently the obligation of the country to invest
in its water supply,” Monjesa said. “In my opinion, it is not
appropriate to privatize the water supply at this time.”  Tanzania will receive 71.3 million euros ($95 million) in
funding from the European Union and German for sewage and water
projects in the country, the EU said in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Jerving in Dar es Salaam via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 