-- Appetite for Meat in China Means Agriculture Imports, FAO Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-06T09:29:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/appetite-for-meat-in-china-means-agriculture-imports-fao-says.html
China’s imports of animal feed
ingredients will lead the country’s increasing dependence on
global agricultural markets in the next decade as rising  incomes 
spur meat-rich diets, the OECD and the UN’s Food & Agriculture
Organization forecast.  Imports of oilseeds such as soybeans, a source of protein
for hogs and poultry, will total 83 million metric tons in 2022,
an increase of 40 percent from 2013, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation & Development and the  United Nations 's FAO wrote in a
joint report on the outlook for agriculture. Imports of coarse
grain, mostly  corn , will be 13.2 million tons in 2022, the
report said.  The nation’s rising population, urban expansion and growing
wealth are coupled with a reduction in the quality and amount of
land and water available for farming, the report said. China’s
largest pork processor is poised to takeover Smithfield Food
Inc. as the pressure encourages companies to look overseas to
meet food demand.  “The historic economic and social transformation of China
which has been evidenced in the past three to four decades has
and will continue to have huge potential implication for
international agricultural markets,” according to the report.
“ China , which now holds one-fifth of the world’s population, is
endowed with little arable land and water supplies relative to
its population base.”  Meat imports may rise 3 percent annually over the next 10
years to 1.7 million tons in 2022, with beef growing fastest at
7 percent, it said. The amount of dairy products China buys will
rise 20 percent over 10 years, it said.  Chinese Acquisition  Shuanghui International Holdings Ltd. last week won
Smithfield Food’s acceptance for what’s set to be the largest
Chinese acquisition of a U.S. company as China’s appetite for
pork grows.  Wheat and rice imports are projected at 2.8 million tons
and 1.5 million tons in 2022, respectively, the report said.
Last year’s imports were 3.7 million tons and 2.3 million tons,
customs data show. Government policies protecting local growers
will curb China’s imports of food grain, Merritt Cluff, senior
economist at FAO, said in an interview in Beijing today.  Cotton imports will drop to 1.9 million tons by 2022, it
said. Last year’s imports were 5.1 tons, customs data show.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brett Miller  at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  