-- Williams Dominates Errani to Set Up French Final With Sharapova
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-06-06T22:48:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/maria-sharapova-beats-victoria-azarenka-in-french-open-semifinal.html
Top seed Serena Williams dominated
Sara Errani 6-0, 6-1 to advance to the French Open women’s final
against defending champion Maria Sharapova.  Williams needed just 46 minutes yesterday to move into her
second singles final at Roland Garros in Paris. Sharapova, the
No. 2 seed, beat Australian Open champion Victoria Azarenka 6-1,
2-6, 6-4 in a match lasting more than two hours to reach the
title match for the second straight year.  “It will really feel special,” Williams said at a press
conference. “I have never played Maria here. It will be a great
match. We both are doing so well and we both just really want to
win. We’re both really excited to be this far.”  Williams, 31, will be playing for her 16th Grand Slam
singles championship tomorrow. She won on her only other
appearance in the Paris final in 2002 and holds a 13-2 lead all-time over Sharapova, who last beat her in 2004.  Williams has also won their last three Grand Slam matches
after Sharapova took the first in the 2004 Wimbledon final.  “I would love to change that around,” Sharapova, who’s
seeking her fifth Grand Slam title, told reporters. “Obviously
whatever I did in the past hasn’t worked, so I’ll have to try to
do something different and hopefully it will.”  In today’s men’s semifinals, top seed Novak Djokovic of
 Serbia  meets seven-time champion Rafael Nadal, the No. 3 from
Spain, and  France ’s Jo-Wilfried Tsonga, the No. 6 seed, takes on
fourth-seeded Spaniard David Ferrer.  ‘Unbelievable Player’  Errani, the fifth seed who lost last year’s final to
Sharapova, was no match for Williams, who hit 40 winners and
five aces, and won six love games. The Italian hit just two
winners and had her serve broken five times.  “What she did today is unbelievable,” Errani told
reporters. “She’s very strong, she’s an unbelievable player.
She had a great day.”  Williams lost eight points in rolling through the first set
in 21 minutes. She fired 18 winners to just one for Errani, who
took just two points off the American’s serve. Williams took her
opponent’s short serves and returns and banged them into the
corners.  Errani, 26, won two of the first three points in the second
set before Williams stormed back to take the final three. After
losing the next two games to love, she got a big cheer from the
crowd, and raised her arms triumphantly, as Williams hit a
backhand wide to lose the fourth game.  The success was short-lived as Williams won the next game
to love to go up 4-1. After another break, Williams served out
the match, clinching victory with a final ace.  Errors, Faults  The opening semifinal featured a mixture of good play and
mistakes from both players.  Although Sharapova made 39 unforced errors and 11 double
faults, she hit 12 aces and 42 winners. Azarenka, a 23-year-old
from Belarus, broke Sharapova five times while making 22 errors.  After being broken in the opening game of the match to
love, Sharapova, 26, overpowered Azarenka by winning the next
six games to take the first set in just 28 minutes.  Third-seeded Azarenka finally held to open the second set,
then scored her second break for a 4-2 lead. She won the next
game after dropping the first two points and took the set by
breaking the Russian.  Rain started to fall on the changeover, forcing both
players off the court, which was covered. After a 35-minute
delay, each player held serve to start the final set.  Sharapova then broke Azarenka in three straight games to
take a 5-2 lead. The Belarusian fought off four match points and
then held to pull within 5-4. Sharapova clinched the victory
with her final ace on her fifth match point.  “The break changed the momentum for sure,” Azarenka said.
“I was trying to make things happen too quickly and started
missing the ball. I’m not happy about the match, but I think it
was a good fight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  