-- Harvard Must Boost Humanities to Stop Decline, Report Says
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2013-06-06T14:50:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/harvard-must-boost-humanities-study-to-stop-decline-report-says.html
Harvard University  needs to do more
to encourage freshmen to study humanities to halt a slide in
undergraduate interest in subjects including art history,
literature and music, a university report said.  Harvard College, the undergraduate division, should expose
more freshmen to humanities during orientation, create art and
exhibition spaces and fund internships to allow students to
experience careers in the arts, according to a  statement  today
on Harvard’s website.  Philosophical and artistic concepts are essential for
describing and ultimately changing the world, according to one
of three reports Harvard issued today about rejuvenating the
study of the humanities. The report expressed concern that the
number of students concentrating in humanities at Harvard has
dropped to 17 percent from 24 percent in 1954, and more than
half of those who intend to concentrate in the humanities end up
graduating from other departments.  “A  Harvard College  education must provide our students
with the ability to interpret ideas, regardless of discipline,
in order to prepare them for the world they will enter,”
Michael D. Smith, dean of the faculty of arts and sciences, said
in the statement.  The skills developed by the study of humanities -- the
ability to reason, analyze and debate -- are more important than
ever, Smith said. Also, humanities students have the highest
levels of satisfaction and tend to stick to their studies,
according to the report.  Harvard is preparing to announce a capital campaign in
September that will raise funds for buildings and new
initiatives. In a statement last week, Harvard President Drew
Faust set the generation of new knowledge “across the natural
and social sciences and humanities,” as the first of seven
principles that will be addressed by the campaign.  The Harvard Crimson student newspaper has reported that the
campaign goal will be at least $6 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in London at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  