-- Astros Take Stanford Pitcher Appel With MLB Draft’s Top Pick
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-06-07T04:54:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/astros-select-stanford-pitcher-appel-with-top-pick-in-mlb-draft.html
The  Houston Astros  selected Stanford
University right-handed pitcher Mark Appel with the top pick in
Major League Baseball’s first-year player draft.  It is the second straight year the Astros claimed the first
overall selection by having the worst record in the major
leagues the previous season. Last year, they picked shortstop
Carlos Correa with the top pick.  Appel, 21, was drafted eighth last year, and then returned
to Stanford for his senior season after failing to agree on a
contract with the Pittsburgh Pirates.  “This has just been such a surreal moment for me and my
family knowing I’m going back home,” Appel, who was born in
Houston and lived there until he was 12, said in a telephone
interview with MLB.com.  Appel graduated from Stanford with a degree in management
science and engineering after going 10-4 with a 2.12 earned run
average and 130 strikeouts in 106 1/3 innings this season.  Appel was among 15 pitchers, including 12 right-handers,
selected last night in the first round, the most among all
positions. Also taken in the opening round were six outfielders,
four shortstops, three third basemen, two first basemen, two
catchers and one second baseman.  Six Californians  Of the first-round selections, 18 players were from college
and 15 were from high schools with California leading with six
players, followed by Texas with four and Florida and Georgia
with three each. For the first time since the 2001 draft, there
were no pairs of teammates selected in the first round.  Kris Bryant, a third baseman from the University of  San
Diego , was the second pick overall by the  Chicago Cubs  and was
followed by two pitchers.  The Colorado Rockies selected right-hander  Jonathan Gray  of
Oklahoma with the third pick and the  Minnesota Twins  took Texas
high school right-hander Kohl Stewart with the fourth pick. The
 Cleveland Indians  picked Georgia high school third baseman Clint
Frazier at No. 5.  The  New York Mets  selected first baseman Dominic Smith from
Junipero Serra High School in Gardena, California, with the 11th
pick. The 17-year-old, who bats and throws left-handed, hit .493
with seven home runs and 38 runs batted in during 27 games this
season.  Church Picked  “We felt going back to last spring, into the summer, that
this was one of the most advanced high school hitters that
you’ll find,” said Tommy Tanous, the Mets’ director of amateur
scouting. “The fact that he bats left-handed is even nicer.”  Smith, who committed to the University of  Southern
California , is the fifth position player taken in the first
round by the Mets since 2008.  The Mets chose Nevada’s Basic High School right-handed
pitcher Andrew Church as the 48th overall pick in the second
round.  The  New York  Yankees selected third baseman Eric Jagielo, a
junior at  Notre Dame , as the 26th pick. Named the 2013 Big East
Player of the Year, Jagielo batted .388 with 47 runs, 19 doubles,
nine home runs and 53 runs batted in during 56 games with the
Irish.  “We had a great first day,” said Damon Oppenheimer, the
Yankees’ vice president of amateur scouting. “Eric Jagielo is a
physical left-handed hitter with plus power. He shows a good
combination of plate discipline and power.”  Center fielder Aaron Judge, 21, a junior at Fresno State,
was the Yankees’ 32nd pick, and high school left-handed pitcher
Ian Clarkin, 18, of San Diego was taken 33rd by the Yankees. The
final two selections came as compensation for losing free agents
 Nick Swisher  and  Rafael Soriano  during the offseason.  With their 66th overall selection in the second round, the
Yankees chose second baseman Gosuke Katoh of Rancho Bernardo
High School in San Diego.  The three-day draft continues through tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  