-- Asylum-Seeker Ahmed Nears Ashes Call Up After Citizenship Boost
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-06-06T02:12:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/asylum-seeker-ahmed-nears-ashes-call-up-after-citizenship-boost.html
Pakistan-born spin bowler Fawad Ahmed
will join  Australia ’s second-string cricket team on its U.K. and
Ireland tour after lawmakers passed a bill that would fast-track
his citizenship, putting him closer to an Ashes callup.  Although the bill still needs Senate approval, Cricket
Australia said today it was confident there was enough support
for it to soon become law, enabling leg-spinner Ahmed, 31, to
obtain an Australian passport in time to be picked for the best-of-five Test series against England starting July 10.  Ahmed, who played first-class cricket in  Pakistan  before
fleeing to Australia in 2010 and being granted asylum, will now
get the chance to impress selectors in two Australia ‘A’ tour
matches this month. Nathan Lyon is the only specialist spin
bowler in Australia’s 16-man Ashes squad as it seeks to avoid a
third straight series loss to archrival  England .  “We are pleased to be able to provide emerging cricketers
with an opportunity to show their abilities,” John Inverarity,
chairman of Australia’s national selection panel, said in a
statement. “Fawad is a spin bowler of interest and we look
forward to seeing how he performs for Australia ‘A’.”  Under the sport’s current international eligibility
criteria, Ahmed would not become available for Australia
selection until Aug. 18, Cricket Australia said.  The bill to amend Australia’s Citizenship Act passed
through the lower house of parliament yesterday. If it passes
the Senate, the legislation will give the immigration minister
the power to fast-track citizenship applications in specific
cases such as elite athletes.  If Ahmed obtains citizenship and a passport before Aug. 18,
he will immediately be eligible to play for Australian elite
teams, Melbourne-based Cricket Australia said. Because the
regulations don’t apply to ‘A’ teams, Ahmed will be available
for selection in the tour matches against Ireland and
Gloucestershire.  ‘Great Opportunity’  “It is a great opportunity for me to prove myself in
overseas conditions,” Ahmed said in the statement. “I am
grateful to Cricket Australia and the national selection panel
for this chance. I will do my best to repay their faith in me.”  Ahmed was granted a permanent visa to remain in Australia
in November after his initial application for residency was
rejected. He has said he left his home in the border region near
 Afghanistan  because he was targeted by Muslim extremists.  He played in Australia’s 2012-13 Big Bash Twenty20
competition before taking 16 wickets at an average of 28 runs
apiece in three first-class Sheffield Shield matches for the
Victoria state team.  His performances prompted Victoria captain Cameron White to
describe him as “one of the better leg-spinner, if not the
best” he’d seen outside Stuart MacGill and  Shane Warne .  MacGill took 208 wickets in 44 Tests for Australia before
retiring in 2008, while Warne quit international cricket a year
earlier with a  national-record  708 Test wickets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  