-- Aussie Falls to Lowest Since ’11 on Stocks, Lower Yield Premiums
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-06-06T07:13:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/aussie-falls-to-lowest-since-11-on-stocks-lower-yield-premiums.html
The Australian dollar fell to the
lowest level since 2011 as the nation’s shrinking interest-rate
advantage over its peers damps the allure of the currency.  Insight Investment Management Ltd., which oversees about
$134 billion in fixed income and currencies, has been selling
the Aussie as the yield spread between  Australia ’s sovereign
debt and its global peers narrowed by almost half a percentage
point since March. The Australian and New Zealand dollars slid
against the yen for a third day as Asian stocks extended a
global rout, sapping demand for riskier assets.  “The Aussie’s trend is clearly downward,” said Kengo Suzuki, the chief currency strategist at Mizuho Securities Co.
in Tokyo, a unit of  Japan ’s third-biggest financial group by
market value. “The Australian dollar remains susceptible to
selling when markets are in a risk-off situation.”  Australia’s currency dropped 0.6 percent to 94.81 U.S.
cents as of 5:11 p.m. in Sydney after touching 94.35, the
weakest since Oct. 4, 2011.  New Zealand ’s kiwi dollar fell 0.2
percent to 79.53 U.S. cents after reaching 79.03, the lowest
since July 26. The Aussie slid to 93.45 yen, a level unseen
since Feb. 27, before trading at 94.18, 0.4 percent lower than
yesterday. New Zealand’s currency was little changed at 78.99
yen.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares lost 1.2 percent,
following a 1.4 percent drop in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Yield Gap  The extra yield that investors can get by holding
Australia’s government bonds over their global peers was 1.6
percentage points yesterday, according to indexes compiled by
Bank of America Merrill Lynch. That compares with an 11-month
high of 2.07 percentage points on March 25.  The yield on Australia’s benchmark  10-year (GACGB10)  government note
slid five basis points to 3.34 percent today.  “We are short the Aussie dollar,”  Paul Lambert , the
London-based head of currency at Insight Investment, said at a
media briefing yesterday. “Australia has reached a new point in
its path. Its  interest rates  are going to start to move toward
the rest of the world.” Short positions refer to wagers that an
asset price will fall.  Traders see the  Reserve Bank  of Australia lowering
borrowing costs by 41 basis points in the next 12 months, a
Credit Suisse Group AG  index  based on overnight-index swaps
showed. The index indicated 36 basis points of cuts yesterday. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Rate Expectations  Royal Bank of Canada expects two more 25 basis-point
reductions to the key rate this year, compared with a previous
forecast for no change.  “Further cuts look like the path of least resistance even
with additional currency weakness,” Su-Lin Ong, RBC’s Sydney-based head of Australian economic and fixed-income strategy,
wrote in an e-mailed note to clients.  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board kept the overnight
cash-rate target at a record low  2.75 percent  at their June 4
meeting. “The inflation outlook, as currently assessed, may
provide some scope for further easing, should that be
required,” Stevens said.  “The RBA policy statement was a green light for A$ bears
and they are using it to keep right on going,” Kit Juckes, a
global strategist at Societe Generale SA in  London , wrote in a
research note today. “The move has only just begun and remains
the best way of positioning for softer Chinese growth.”  Trade with  China , Australia’s biggest trading partner,
totaled A$10.6 billion ($10 billion) in April. Australia’s  trade
surplus  shrank to A$28 million for the month, data showed today,
short of the median economist estimate for A$180 million in a
Bloomberg News survey. The surplus for March was revised to
A$555 million from an initial reading of A$307 million.  Option Bets  Options traders increased their bearish bets on the Aussie
to the most in 11 months as they expect bigger swings in the
currency against the greenback. Premiums on three-month put
options granting the right to sell the Aussie exceeded those to
buy by 2.92 percentage points, the most since July 13 last year,
according to data on so-called risk-reversal rates. Same-term
implied volatility, based on call- and put-option premiums,
climbed to 11.9 percent, the highest since June 28, 2012.  Australia’s dollar has fallen 7.2 percent in the past three
months, making it the worst performer among 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  Analysts forecast that the Australian dollar may climb to
98 U.S. cents in the third quarter, according to the median of
their estimates in a Bloomberg survey. In contrast, options
traders see about a 45 percent chance that the currency will
finish the three months ending Sept. 30 below 94 cents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Buckland in  Tokyo  at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  