-- Austerity Principles, or How to Save an Economy in Crisis
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-06-06T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/austerity-principles-or-how-to-save-an-economy-in-crisis.html
Since the 2008 financial crisis,
governments have experimented with just about every possible
combination of fiscal and monetary policy. Some have pursued
expansionary programs by borrowing heavily, cutting taxes and
increasing spending. Others have gone the sackcloth-and-ashes
route -- or were forced to -- by slashing spending and raising
taxes. And some, the U.S. and the euro area included, have
lurched from one strategy to another.  Adding to the miasma, the  International Monetary Fund 
 issued  this week a surprisingly frank  mea culpa  on  Greece ,
saying it shouldn’t have delayed that country’s debt
restructuring or imposed fiscal contraction as a bailout
condition. Meanwhile, exchanges between liberals and
conservatives over flaws in the work of economists  Carmen Reinhart  and  Kenneth Rogoff , who concluded that countries
experience slower growth when government debt exceeds 90 percent
of gross domestic product, are increasingly tart-tongued.  Nevertheless, after five years of experimentation, data
collection and debate, the fog is lifting. It is now possible to
lay down some broad principles for future downturns. Herewith:  -- There are no magic numbers. Studies, including  some 
completed in recent  weeks , show no correlation between debt
today and growth tomorrow. And there certainly is no special
number at which debt becomes crippling, such as the 90 percent
debt-to-GDP ratio that some attribute to Reinhart and Rogoff.
(For the record, they never said 90 percent was a magic number.)  -- Fiscal expansion works. When economies are weak, fiscal
stimulus is the responsible policy. Governments that have used
this tool have seen increases in demand, which in turn prevents
more people from losing their jobs, adds to revenue and lowers
government spending on social-welfare programs.  Larry Summers ,
the former Treasury secretary and adviser to President  Barack
Obama , and  University of California  at Berkeley economist Brad DeLong  showed  that expansionary fiscal policy may even reduce,
not increase, future debt burdens.  -- Fiscal contraction can backfire. If premature, spending
cuts and tax increases can make deficits worse. Consider the
U.S.’s budget sequestration, which on paper will reduce spending
and the federal debt by $64 billion. This is equal to reducing
the debt-to-GDP ratio by 0.39 percent. But sequestration will
also reduce growth by 0.6 percentage point and lower tax
revenue. In the end, as Summers  told  the Senate Budget Committee
this week, it isn’t likely to improve debt-to-GDP at all.  Moreover, the idea of expansionary fiscal contraction is a
contradiction. No place illustrates this better than the euro
area, where austerity budgets have been imposed on debt-laden
countries. The result is that the  euro zone  is mired in
recession for the sixth consecutive quarter.  -- Currencies matter. One important factor is whether a
country controls its currency. The U.K. could have improved its
competitiveness, for example, by devaluing the pound to lift
exports and discourage imports. It probably didn’t need to cut
borrowing and spending as deeply as it has, and even the  IMF  is
urging the U.K. to ease off the brakes. To dig out of decades-long deflation,  Japan  is essentially doing this -- driving down
the yen to make its exports cheaper relative to others’ and
pumping money into the economy.  Portugal and  Spain , on the other hand, are in the euro
area. They have no control over the currency’s value and
therefore can’t use it to become more competitive.  -- Automatic stabilizers work. In the U.S., when it comes
to fiscal policy in times of economic crisis, there isn’t much
disagreement between the political parties. But if a separate
debate over the proper size of government is allowed to intrude
(as it has), the result is gridlock.  Policy makers should instead agree in advance to a system
of automatic stabilizers that kick in during recessions. These
include unemployment insurance extensions and relaxed
eligibility standards for  food stamps  when the jobless rate
exceeds, say, 6 percent. By the same token, lawmakers could
agree to spend, say, 20 percent more on public works programs
when unemployment increases. Automatic stabilizers offset about
20 percent of an economic shock after two years, according to
 research  by Federal Reserve economists. The effect is even
bigger in  Europe , where automatic stabilizers are more
prevalent.  Republicans shouldn’t care if the U.S. spends more this
year and less next year so long as the permanent size of the
government remains the same.  -- Culture matters. It is difficult for many Americans, not
to mention most Germans, to swallow the central irony of
financial crises: Although they are caused by overconfidence,
overlending and overspending, they can be fixed only with more
confidence, more lending and more spending. This doesn’t jibe
with the belief that if parsimony is good at home, it’s also
good for government.  When  government borrowing  subsides, voters are heartened.
The widely publicized May 14 Congressional Budget Office  report ,
which estimated that the fiscal 2013 deficit will decline to
$642 billion, or 4 percent of GDP (down from 10 percent in
2009), may even be playing a role in recent  consumer confidence ,
 consumer spending  and home-price improvements. It was only a few
months ago that the CBO had projected a 2013 deficit of about
$850 billion. Many economists had dolefully predicted an
economic hiccup because of the payroll tax increase in January
and deep budget cuts that started in March.  Elected officials should use cultural preferences to their
advantage by explaining that debt can sometimes be useful, and
then pushing hard for belt-tightening once recovery seems solid.  -- Austerity isn’t always bad. As we have  said , excessive
government borrowing can push up  interest rates . If the rate
exceeds the pace of GDP growth, the level of debt becomes a
concern. Every country has its own point at which austerity
becomes necessary to avoid rattling the bond markets. It’s best
if governments don’t test where that line is.  Happily, the European Union, with 27 million unemployed, is
backing away from austerity. Last week, it released seven
countries from deficit targets and other budget obligations.
Expansionary fiscal policy, mostly by  Germany , should be the
next move. Germany’s success at becoming a net saver and
exporter was possible because of borrowing and importing by
Italy, Spain and others. Until Germany allows its surplus to
contract, the countries on Europe’s periphery won’t be able to
shrink their borrowing.  The U.S., on the other hand, should be closing the large
gap between projected  tax revenue  and spending on Medicare and
Social Security. Congress has been doing precisely the opposite
by focusing only on cutting discretionary spending, which will
soon sink to the lowest level since the 1960s.  Retreating from misguided economic policies is always tough
for elected leaders. Let’s hope that, after a lot of trial and
error, pursuing the right course is getting easier.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 