-- Bank of Canada’s Poloz Says Exports to Lead Recovery
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-06-06T14:12:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/bank-of-canada-s-poloz-says-exports-to-lead-recovery.html
Bank of  Canada  Governor Stephen Poloz, in his first public address since stepping into the role
earlier this week, said the country’s economy will rely on
accelerating foreign demand to drive growth and investment.  The  recession  caused structural changes in the Canadian
economy that forced companies to permanently downsize, reducing
the nation’s capacity, Poloz said today in Ottawa in testimony
that echoed statements from his predecessor Mark Carney. While
Canada has relied on domestic demand fueled by stimulative
monetary and fiscal policies to drive growth, that model may
have run its course, Poloz said.  “With domestic demand now slowing, the limits of this
growth model are clear,” Poloz said in an  opening statement 
released on the bank’s website. “What’s less clear is the
rebuilding process underlying the necessary rotation of growth
toward net exports and business investment.”  Poloz, formerly chief executive officer of the nation’s
trade financing agency, declined to say whether the Canadian
dollar was overvalued.  The currency pared advances, trading little changed at
C$1.0346 per U.S. dollar at 10:05 a.m. in Toronto. It was
trading at about C$1.0330 when Poloz began his remarks to the
House of Commons Finance Committee.  “The fact that he balked at making any reference to the
Canadian dollar may undercut some of its bullish momentum,”
 Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist in Toronto at Toronto-Dominion Bank, said in an e-mail. “He seems to be taking a very
Carney-esque line; it looks like a different coach but the same
playbook so far.”  Foreign Demand  Poloz said the global economy continues to struggle and the
current recovery isn’t typical and more akin to “postwar
reconstruction” that will require “sustained and focused
efforts.” Still, a recovery in foreign demand will help boost
the nation’s exports and start to provide businesses with
confidence to increase investments.  “This sequence may already be underway,” Poloz said. “We
are now seeing signs of recovery in some important external
markets, notably the United States and  Japan , and there is
continued growth in emerging-market economies.”  Poloz also said the central bank’s  inflation  targeting
framework is “sacrosanct,” and the institution’s credibility
allows it to be flexible in its policy decisions. He also said a
key component of the bank’s framework is a flexible exchange
rate whose value is determined in currency markets.  Poloz didn’t refer to the outlook for lending  rates  in his
testimony.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in  New York  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  