-- Beermaker’s Bonds Signal Erdogan Uncompromising: Turkey Credit
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y ,   T a y l a n   B i l g i c   a n d   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2013-06-06T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/beermaker-s-bonds-signal-erdogan-uncompromising-turkey-credit.html
Bondholders in  Turkey ’s biggest
brewer are signaling that protesters who’ve taken over
Istanbul’s Taksim Square face disappointment as Prime Minister
 Recep Tayyip Erdogan  indicated he won’t cede to their demands.  The November 2022 dollar-denominated bonds of Anadolu Efes
Biracilik Malt Sanayii AS slid to a record 88 cents yesterday,
with the yield rising above 5 percent, as investors waited for
Turkey’s president to approve or veto a law restricting alcohol
sales. The yield was more than 180 basis points higher than
similarly rated securities from Denver, Colorado-based  Molson
Coors Brewing Co. (TAP)   Erdogan accused the demonstrators at a press conference in
Tunis yesterday of violating laws and damaging state property,
while the protesters list his increasingly autocratic style and
disdain for a secular lifestyle among their concerns. The
alcohol law passed by parliament last month includes a ban on
the promotion of liquor. President  Abdullah Gul  has until June
12 to rule on the measures.  The draft legislation on alcohol “has prompted a drastic
back-up in Efes bond yields,” Julian Rimmer, a trader at CF
Global Trading UK Ltd. in  London , who covers Turkey and  Russia ,
said by e-mail yesterday. “Suggestions that Gul may veto or
modify the bill arrested the fall in price, but as opposing
ideologies clash and opinions polarize, there seems little
prospect for an improvement” for Efes bondholders, he said.  Ottoman Barracks  Yields on Turkey’s two-year  benchmark notes  rose 46 basis
points yesterday to 6.78 percent, climbing for the seventh day
in the past eight and approaching a seven-month high. The lira
pared earlier gains following Erdogan’s comments and traded 0.1
percent higher at 1.8909 per dollar at 6:54 p.m. in Istanbul.  Hundreds of thousands of Turks have poured onto the streets
since police initiated a crackdown on protesters occupying Gezi
Park, an Istanbul green space, to protest its conversion into an
Ottoman Barracks and possibly a shopping mall under a government
redevelopment project. The protests have so far led to three
deaths and wounded about 4,000 people nationwide, the Taksim
Platform, a group representing the protesters, said yesterday.  Gul has asked advisers to examine the “social perception”
of the alcohol measures as well as legal and constitutional
aspects, Radikal newspaper reported yesterday. Gul has adopted a
more conciliatory tone than the prime minister, who said at the
press conference that “the state can’t be managed through
bargaining.”  Bus Barricades  Taksim has been turned into a police-free zone, blocked off
by a series of barricades that include city buses and official
vehicles overturned and burned by the protesters. Occupants of
the park shared beers and chanted for Erdogan’s resignation.
Walls have been newly coated with graffiti reading “Serefe
Tayyip,” or “Cheers, Tayyip.”  “The patience of the people has run out following a series
of restrictions by the government from the sale of alcohol to
the celebration of national days that are part of the secular
tradition’s identity,” Mustafa Hilmi Oral, a medical worker,
said at a rally near Taksim Square on the night of June 1.
“Opposition to the government has brought these people here.”  The yield on Anadolu Efes’s bonds has increased 153 basis
points since May 9, compared with a 100 basis-point increase in
Turkish electronics producer  Arcelik AS (ARCLK) ’s 2023 bonds and a 108
basis-point climb in lender  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) ’s 2022
bonds.  ‘Combative Tone’  Erdogan’s “combative tone” and refusal to compromise may
undermine lira-denominated assets further, Inan Demir, chief
economist for Finansbank AS in Istanbul, said by e-mail
yesterday.  The alcohol law passed by Parliament bans the promotion of
liquor, restricts drinking scenes on television, outlaws sales
near houses of worship or schools and ends retail sales at
night, among other measures.  The lira is down 0.8 percent this week, the Istanbul stock
market has dropped 12 percent and benchmark two-year government
bond yields are up 71 basis points, or 0.71 percentage point.  The cost to protect against losses in Turkish debt using
credit-default swaps rose 34 basis points this week to 166,
heading for the biggest increase since September 2011 and
climbing 10 basis points above  Brazil ’s. The swaps pay off
should a government renege on its debt obligations, with a
higher value representing greater perceived risk of default.  “I am not sensing from the administration much willingness
to pull the new legislation, as it seems to have strong
backing” from deputies of Erdogan’s  Justice and Development
Party , or AKP, Tim Ash, chief emerging-markets economist for
Standard Bank Group Ltd. in London, said by e-mail yesterday.
“Even if Gul vetoes the bill, it is likely to be re-submitted.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  