-- BHP CEO Says Jansen Potash Project Is ‘Just an Option’
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-06-06T21:13:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/bhp-ceo-says-jansen-potash-project-is-just-an-option-.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  Chief Executive
Officer  Andrew Mackenzie  said the Jansen potash project in
 Canada  must meet “certain criteria” if it’s to proceed as the
world’s biggest mining company cuts billions of dollars of
 capital spending .  Potash “is a great option but it’s just an option,” he
said today in a speech in London at the annual dinner organized
by the Melbourne Mining Club.  Mackenzie, who took over as CEO from Marius Kloppers last
month, said he’s seeking to cut annual expenditure to a maximum
of $15 billion in the next two to three years. The Melbourne-based company is part of an industrywide drive to boost returns
after commodity prices dropped.  The development decision on Jansen was delayed in August by
Kloppers as part of a plan to shelve all major project approvals
for the 2013 fiscal year. Jansen, located in Saskatchewan, may
cost about $15 billion to build, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
analysts  Peter O’Connor  and Jason Fairclough wrote in a report
dated yesterday.  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. CEO Bill Doyle said last
month the economics of Jansen “don’t work” and that it’s
unlikely to proceed.  BHP may only to proceed with developing the mine on a “de-risked basis,” either through selling a stake or bringing in a
joint-venture partner to help fund construction, the Merrill
Lynch analysts wrote in the report.  Mackenzie also said today that BHP’s primary focus is not
to grow via acquisitions. BHP and Rio Tinto Group are among
mining companies selling assets to shore up earnings and cut
costs after more than $60 billion of writedowns in the industry.  BHP fell 1.2 percent to 1,821 pence by the close in  London 
today, the lowest in more than a month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  