-- BOJ Said to Split on Measure to Quell Bond Volatility
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2013-06-06T07:49:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/boj-said-to-split-on-measure-to-quell-bond-volatility.html
The Bank of  Japan  is divided over
whether to authorize a measure designed to quell bond-market
volatility, with some officials concerned it would return the
BOJ to a pattern of incremental steps that failed in the past,
according to people familiar with the discussions.  At issue is whether the board, which meets June 10-11,
should give its financial markets department the power to double
the maturity of loans it extends to banks to two years. An
opposing view is that the step is a useful backup in case of a
spike in fluctuations in the government bond market, the people
said, asking not to be named because the talks are private.  The debate reflects the challenge for a central bank trying
to persuade investors, businesses and households that its
unprecedented monetary stimulus unveiled April 4 will be enough
to end Japan’s 15 years of entrenched deflation. A 16 percent
decline in the Topix Index from a May 22 high and volatility in
bonds, with 10-year yields diving to a record low in April
before tripling in May, are hurting confidence that policy
makers will succeed in reviving the economy.  “The BOJ is in a very tough position -- it’s going to be
interesting to see how it will defend its stance,” said  Chotaro Morita , Tokyo-based chief strategist for fixed income at
Barclays Plc. “The best solution for now may be to extend the
duration to two years and make it clear it’s temporary. The
extension would be effective, but market participants would
wonder if this is easing” policy in an incremental way, just as
before, he said.  Debt Burden  Japan bears the world’s biggest public debt burden, with
the International Monetary Fund last week calling for a
“concrete and credible” plan for fiscal consolidation. The IMF
said last year that the nation’s borrowings may amount to 245
percent of its economic output this year.  Also looming at next week’s meeting is the possibility of a
decision whether to increase the cap on central bank purchases
of real-estate investment trusts. The 138 billion yen ($1.4
billion) effort since December 2010 has been credited with
contributing to a resuscitation in the nation’s property market
two decades after its post-bubble collapse.  The BOJ’s purchases so far in 2013 amount to 98.7 percent
of a self-imposed limit for the year of 140 billion yen. One
view among policy makers is that the cap shouldn’t be raised
because such a move could be seen as an incremental step,
according to people familiar with BOJ discussions. Governor
Haruhiko Kuroda, 68, says he will do everything possible to
achieve a goal of 2 percent inflation, avoiding “gradualism”
or “incremental” efforts.  Falling REITs  J-REITs extended declines today  after publication of the
comments from the people familiar with the BOJ discussions. The
Tokyo Stock Exchange REIT index fell 3.7 percent to a three-month low.  “The BOJ can stop purchases of J-REITs for this year once
the current target is met as the index is at a reasonable
level,” said  Yoji Otani , a real estate analyst at Deutsche Bank
AG in Tokyo. “The BOJ has helped but the real driver for J-REITs has been signs of an increase in property prices and fewer
office vacancies.”  Office vacancies in Tokyo fell for a third straight month
in May to the lowest in more than three years, according to a
report released today by a Tokyo-based office-brokerage Miki
Shoji Co.  Urgent Task  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economist Naohiko Baba said
yesterday that the central bank should “urgently” stabilize
long-term interest rates, with increases in yields threatening
to derail economic gains. Ten-year yields were at 0.835 percent
at 3:15 p.m. today in Tokyo, compared with a record low of 0.315
on April 5 and as much as 1 percent on May 23.  In the past two weeks, fluctuations in 10-year yields have
diminished, with the rates ranging from 0.964 percent to 0.795
percent according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Some BOJ
officials assess that the reduced volatility lessens the need to
authorize two-year lending to banks, according to the people.  The BOJ has increased the frequency of its government bond
purchases and used extra one-year funding operations --
supplying money against financial institutions’ collateral at
the central bank -- as Kuroda tries to avoid “excessive
volatility” since the April 4 announcement of a doubling of
bond purchases. While the financial-markets division has
authority for one-year operations, it would need board approval
for two-year funding.  Analyst Predictions  Fifteen of 17 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey either
forecast that the BOJ will approve two-year operations at the
policy meeting or say that such a move is possible.  Abe, 58, and Kuroda need to sustain the momentum of their
campaign, after prospects for expanded easing and a weaker yen
sent share prices soaring from November.  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) , the
most export-dependent Japanese car marker, doubled in the past
six months. The yen traded at 99.11 per dollar as of 3:11 p.m.
in Tokyo today, down about 13 percent this year.  Japanese stocks, including Mazda, tumbled yesterday as Abe
said that autumn will be the soonest his government presents
legislation for a growth strategy, termed the “third arrow” of
Abenomics, accompanying monetary and fiscal stimulus. The Topix
Index fell another 1.8 percent today in Tokyo, paring this
year’s gain to 24.5 percent. A 6.9 percent decline on May 23 was
the biggest since a natural disaster in March 2011.  Kuroda Pressure  “If the stock market continues to slump and the yen
strengthens, Kuroda is going to be under pressure to ease
further,” Izumi Devalier, an economist with HSBC Holdings Plc
in Hong Kong, said yesterday. “But he’s been very clear that
he’s not going to do piecemeal stimulus and reacting to market
moves now would only heighten expectations for more of the same
in the future.”  According to HSBC, major additional stimulus is unlikely to
be debated by the BOJ before October at the earliest. Masamichi Adachi, senior economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  Tokyo  and a
former central bank official, said yesterday that the central
bank had only just delivered its “big bang” two months ago,
pledging to double the money in the economy over two years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  