-- Bollore’s Bid for Ivory Coast Terminal May Be Probed
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2013-06-06T14:48:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/bollore-s-bid-for-ivory-coast-terminal-may-be-probed.html
A winning bid to construct a second
container terminal at the Port of Abidjan in  Ivory Coast  by
Bollore Africa Logistics CI,  Bouygues SA (EN)  and A.P. Moeller-Maersk
A/S’s APM Terminals may face scrutiny from a West African
competition body.  The competition department of the West African Economic and
Monetary Union has accepted a complaint against the bid and will
decide whether it will probe it, Amadou Dieng, director of
competition at the body said in an interview from Ouagadougou,
the capital of Burkina Faso, today.  Bollore, which operates the first container terminal at the
port, offered 122 million euros ($161 million) for the
concession and 14 million euros in annual operating fees and won
the bid in March. The plan is to build the terminal in a
partnership with the government at a cost of as much as 500
million euros.  “The complaint has been admissible. No decision has been
taken on the substance of the case,” Dieng said. “We are
analyzing the documents.”  Bollore, which is based in the French city of Puteaux, beat
bids from groups led by Geneva-based Mediterranean Shipping Co.
and Marseille-based CMA CGM SSA. The complaint was submitted to
the body by Movis Cote D’Ivoire and NCT Neotrans, part of the
CMA CGM group.  Failed Appeal  An appeal by the CMA CGM group calling for an annulment of
the bid was dismissed on May 8 by the Ivory Coast’s Public
Procurement Regulating Authority.  Bollore’s winning bid may create a “supermonopoly,” Jean-Louis Billon, Ivory Coast’s commerce minister, said in an
interview with Le  Nouvel Observateur , a Paris-based weekly
publication.  Marc Messana, director general of Delmas, CMA CGM’s Africa
unit, didn’t answer a call made to his mobile phone. A call to
the phone of Lionel Labarre, the West Africa director for
Bollore Africa Logistics, wasn’t answered.  Abidjan is Ivory Coast’s main harbor and also serves
landlocked neighbors  Burkina Faso  and  Mali . The country is the
world’s biggest cocoa producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  