-- Boston Lucky Star Bus Shut After Hole Found in Floor
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-06-06T20:24:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/boston-lucky-star-bus-shut-after-hole-found-in-floor.html
The U.S. Transportation Department
shut down  Boston ’s Lucky Star bus company after finding wide-ranging safety violations, including a motorcoach carrying
passengers with a 8-square-foot hole in its floor.  That bus was operating with “significant frame damage,”
the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration said in a order
declaring Lucky Star an imminent hazard. Regulators found 69
mechanical problems during two inspections and said company
executives didn’t adequately monitor drivers.  “We cannot allow unsafe bus and truck companies and
commercial drivers on our highways and roads to endanger
innocent lives,” agency Administrator Anne Ferro said in a
statement. A person answering a call to Lucky Star’s Boston
office said no manager was available to comment.  Lucky Star, which operates between Boston and New York’s
Chinatown, was the 13th bus company put out of business since
the regulator started a crackdown April 1. It began after an
accident involving Scapadas Magicas LLC, a Mexican carrier
returning from a California sightseeing trip, killed eight
people.  The agency said Lucky Star, whose corporate name is the
Lucky River Transportation Corp., ran buses around the clock,
making regular maintenance difficult. The company’s head
mechanic told investigators he couldn’t keep up with repairs
because of the schedule and the age of the vehicles.  Breakdowns Common  Federal inspectors found  10 of 21 Lucky Star buses had
broken down during the past year, including three coaches on a
single day in December. Passengers were forced to get off on the
sides of roads.  Two-thirds of Lucky Star’s drivers falsified their logs
tracking how long they’d been on duty, the regulator said. Five
out of six drivers examined exceeded federal drive-time limits.
Logbooks showed shifts longer than the 10 hours allowed and
managers didn’t check them, the agency said.  Global-positioning satellite reports indicated all Lucky
Star drivers were speeding, according to the order. Two drivers
ordered off the road because they didn’t speak English were
permitted to drive days later without any evidence of language
training, the agency said. U.S. rules require that drivers be
able to communicate in English.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  