-- BP Says EU Wants Three Times More Azeri Gas Than Able to Supply
-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 2013-06-06T15:04:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/bp-says-eu-wants-three-times-more-azeri-gas-than-able-to-supply.html
BP Plc (BP/)  is seeing European demand for
natural gas from Azerbaijan’s Caspian Sea Shah Deniz field at
levels three times that of the developers’ supply capacity.  “We are positively surprised by both the level of demand
and the offers we are getting from the buyers within Europe,”
Al Cook, the energy company’s vice president for Shah Deniz in
Azerbaijan, said today in Baku, the capital.  Shah Deniz partners including State Oil Co. of Azerbaijan,
or Socar,  Statoil ASA (STL)  and  Total SA (FP) , have received offers for
more than 30 billion cubic meters of gas a year, compared with
the 10 billion available for the European Union, Cook said. The
partners are focusing on the most valuable offers, he said.  The EU is looking to Shah Deniz, estimated to contain 1.2
trillion cubic meters of gas, and other deposits in the Caspian
to diversify supply away from  Russia , which meets a quarter of
its demand. The field’s developers this month choose whether to
use a proposed Nabucco West link or the Trans-Adriatic Pipeline
to supply natural gas to Europe from the Turkish border.  Socar Vice President for Marketing and Investment Elshad Nasirov said last week the fuel will be sold at “hub-related
prices” based on market levels instead of contracts linked to
oil rates. Cook today said the “nature” of the price depends
on the needs of European buyers and the field’s developers.  Some exploration and development opportunities in the field
will become part of a new phase of the project, he said.  “There are some higher level reservoirs that we are not
going to develop as part of Shah Deniz 2,” Cook said. “There
are also some deeper reservoirs. We made a discovery a few years
ago in deep horizons of the field that we call Shah Deniz Deep.  “All of these could be incorporated into future
developments: This would become Shah Deniz Stage Three.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  