-- Brazil Signals Faster Pace of Key Rate Increase to Continue
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-06-06T14:38:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/brazil-central-bank-says-adequate-to-intensify-adjustment-pace.html
Brazil ’s central bank said
intensifying the pace of monetary tightening is appropriate,
reinforcing bets it will raise its benchmark rate by a full
percentage point over the next two meetings. Swap rates rose.  The bank’s board surprised analysts last week for the first
time since President Alexandre Tombini took office in January
2011 with a larger-than-forecast interest rate increase. It
raised the benchmark Selic rate by half a percentage point to 8
percent, versus predictions for a second consecutive quarter-point boost by 38 of 57 analysts polled by Bloomberg.  The outlook for disperse and accelerating inflation is
unfavorable and needs a timely reversal to avoid undermining
investment and demand, policy makers said in the minutes to
their May 28-29 meeting published on their website today. The
central bank stepped up the pace of interest rate increases last
month after the economy unexpectedly slowed in the first quarter
and inflation continued to hover around the upper limit of the
target range.  “What the bank is saying is that it accelerated the pace
and will keep the faster pace as long as it’s required,”
Marcelo Salomon, co-head for  Latin America  economics at Barclays
Plc, said in a phone interview from  New York . “This is a
central bank that doesn’t like the level of current inflation
and will act.”  Swap Rates  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2015, the most
traded in  Sao Paulo  today, rose 15 basis points, or 0.15
percentage point, to 9.25 percent at 11:21 a.m. local time. The
real fell by less than 0.1 percent to 2.1289.  The minutes are consistent with traders’ expectations of
two more 50 point increases in July and August, respectively,
followed by a final 25 point rise in October, Salomon said.  The central bank started its tightening cycle in April with
a 25 basis point increase, after  annual inflation  accelerated to
6.59 percent in March. Policy makers target annual inflation of
2.5 percent to 6.5 percent.  “The committee considers it’s appropriate to intensify the
pace of adjustment of current monetary conditions,” according
to the minutes. Twelve-month inflation will probably continue to
rise in the short term and  “the balance of risks for the
future scenario is still unfavorable.”  Inflation in April slowed to 6.49 percent and is forecast
to have accelerated to 6.51 percent in May, according to a
Bloomberg survey of 23 economists. The national statistics
agency is scheduled to release May’s consumer prices tomorrow.  Rousseff’s Support  President  Dilma Rousseff  agreed with the need for the
central bank to adopt a more aggressive tone against inflation
and fully supported its monetary policy, a government official
knowledgeable of economic policy said last week.  Latin America’s largest economy  expanded  0.55 percent in
the first three months of 2013, compared to 0.64 percent in the
fourth quarter last year as consumption slowed. It was fifth
consecutive quarter of slower-than-expected growth.  Brazil’s gross domestic product expanded by 0.9 percent in
2012, the slowest pace since the aftermath of the Lehman
Brothers Holdings, Inc.’s collapse in 2008. The central bank
forecasts 3.1 percent growth for this year.  Policy makers shifted their concern to inflation from
economic growth, Enestor dos Santos, senior Brazil economist at
 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , said by phone from  Madrid .  “Concerns regarding the economic recovery and the global
economy are on a lower level,” he said. “They are secondary
compared to inflation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  