-- Warren Buffett-Backed Media General Rises on Young Merger
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-06-06T20:45:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/buffett-backed-media-general-rises-on-young-broadcasting-merger.html
Media General Inc. (MEG) , the TV
broadcaster backed by  Mario Gabelli  and  Warren Buffett , rose 34
percent after agreeing to combine with New Young Broadcasting
Holding Co. in a stock deal valuing the companies at $870
million.  Media General, owner of 18 TV stations, rose to $9.76 at
the close in New York, the biggest one-day gain in more than 19
months. The shares have more than doubled this year.  The merger highlights the hastening consolidation in local
TV, driven by the fees stations and broadcast networks are
beginning to extract from cable and satellite operators such as
Comcast Corp. and  DirecTV. (DTV)   Sinclair Broadcast Group Inc. (SBGI)  has
spent more than $1.84 billion in the past two years buying local
outlets, expanding its reach to 34 percent of U.S. households,
according to Bloomberg Industries.  George L. Mahoney, president and chief executive officer of
Media General, will lead the new company, which will keep the
Media General name and remain based in Richmond,  Virginia ,
according to a statement today. New Young Broadcasting is
headquartered in Nashville, Tennessee.  Media General will have about 89.1 million shares
outstanding once the deal closes, including about 60.2 million
issued to Young’s shareholders, according to the statement. That
suggests a market value of about $870 million based on today’s
prices.  With the combination, Media General will own 30 network
affiliated stations in 27 markets, reaching about 16.5 million
U.S. TV households, or 14 percent of the company. The stations
will include 11 CBS affiliates, nine working with NBC, seven ABC
outlets and one with Fox.  Combined Sales  Revenue for the two companies in 2012 totaled $605 million,
including about $115 million from political advertising,
according to the statement.  Media General sold its newspapers to  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  a year ago for $142 million in cash plus loans totaled $445
million. In September, Buffett exercised warrants giving him 17
percent of the stock. Gamco has 33 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The deal will restructure Media General’s dual-class
shares, creating a new common that will be entitled to elect the
entire board of directors, according to the statement.  Other TV stocks rose.  Nexstar Broadcasting Group Inc. (NXST) ,
based in Irving, Texas, advanced 4.5 percent to $28.27.
Sinclair, in Hunt Valley, Maryland, gained 2.7 percent to
$24.68, and Belo Corp., based in Dallas, added 4.3 percent to
$11.25.  RBC Capital Markets, LLC and Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver
& Jacobson LLP are advising Media General. Stephens Inc. and
Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP are advising the independent members
Media General’s board, while Stephens delivered a fairness
opinion. Wells Fargo Securities LLC and Debevoise & Plimpton LLP
are advising Young Broadcasting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  