-- Cameron Pledges Tax Breaks on Social Investments
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-06-06T10:24:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/cameron-pledges-tax-breaks-on-social-investments.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said his government will give tax breaks to investments that
qualify as having a “social impact” and set up an exchange to
allow such instruments to be traded.  Social-impact bonds see investors put money into projects
that could save the government money. The state or local
government pays out only if they succeed.  Cameron told a conference at Bloomberg LP’s European
headquarters in London today he wants suggestions for how such
tax relief could be structured to help encourage as much as 500
million pounds ($770 million) of extra investment. He also said
the London Stock Exchange will support an online exchange.  “For years the London Stock Exchange has made  London  the
home for private finance, today London can cement its place as
the home for social finance too,” Cameron told investors. “The
world’s first social stock exchange is an online portal that
will become the first information platform on the planet to
showcase publicly listed social impact businesses.”  Cameron has put social impact investment on the agenda for
the Group of Eight summit, being hosted by the U.K. in  Northern
Ireland  later this month, and said he wants Britain to be a
beacon for the benefits of social investment.  Bonds have already been issued in Britain to fund work such
as cutting reoffending by former prisoners and improving child
care.  G-8 Showcase  The G-8 “is an opportunity for Britain to showcase this
issue and say to other countries this is what we’re achieving
here,” Cameron said. “We’ve got the opportunity to bore for
Britain about this on many platforms and we’re not going to
waste any of them.”  Billionaire investor  George Soros  sounded a note of caution
over the bonds, while saying that he and his charity are using
the model to develop philanthropic work in the developing world.  “I want to remind you that social impact bonds are
synthetic financial instruments, and we all know what happens
when synthetic financial instruments are over exploited,” he
told the conference. “We are very far from the point where
social impact bonds are over exploited, on the contrary we are
only at the beginning of exploring how they can be utilized.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eddie Buckle at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net  