-- Canada-EU Trade Talks Hinge on Beef and Pork Access
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-06-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/canada-eu-trade-talks-hinge-on-beef-and-pork-access.html
Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s trade
agreement with the European Union, which would be his most
ambitious to date, hinges on access to the single market for
Canadian beef and pork producers.  An impasse over meat imports means a pact probably won’t be
reached during Harper’s trip to Europe next week, a person with
knowledge of the negotiations said yesterday. European officials
may be trying to use Harper’s visit to pressure  Canada  into
accepting unfavorable terms, said the person, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the talks aren’t public.  The proposed pact is a test of Harper’s efforts to
diversify Canada’s trade away from the U.S., its largest trading
partner. The two sides have struggled to close a deal because of
differences over agricultural goods, procurement and financial
services. When talks began in 2009, Canada had been hoping for a
agreement by as early as 2011.  “The Europeans aren’t easy to do deals with,” said  Peter
Clark , an international trade strategist at Grey Clark Shih & Associates in Ottawa. “It may be the price they want is too
much to pay but there is a tendency to look at things in the
short term” when a longer-term approach is needed.  The EU delegation office in Ottawa declined to comment on
the talks. Andrew MacDougall, a spokesman for Harper, said the
negotiations are continuing and declined to comment further.  Harper is traveling to Europe on an eight-day trip that
will take him to  London  before a stop in  Northern Ireland  for a
summit of Group of Eight leaders.  Trade Accords  While Harper has made trade a key plank of his economic
agenda, completing six trade accords since 2006, none have been
with major economies. Former Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
has  said  the nation’s poor export performance since 2000, the
second worst in the Group of 20 after the U.K, is due to the
country’s reliance on a slowing U.S. economy.  To alleviate that, Harper has begun free trade talks with
 Japan  and  India  and last year joined in negotiating a Pacific-region trade agreement.  “This Canada-EU agreement is very important, not so much
to increase our access to the European market, but to make
Canadians more globally oriented,” said Walid Hejazi of the
Rotman School of Management at the  University of Toronto .  Harper may need to make some difficult choices in order to
finalize an agreement with the EU, said Clark.  While the EU bought 8.9 percent of Canadian exports in
2012, Canada represented 1.9 percent of total EU exports,
according to  Statistics Canada  and Eurostat data.  ‘Pay More’  “We will pay more than we thought we would because we need
the deal more than the Europeans do,” Clark said.  Still, the EU is hoping to use the Canadian free trade
agreement as a template for trade negotiations with the U.S. and
other countries, according to Matthias Brinkmann, the European
Union’s Ambassador to Canada.  “It will help us in the negotiations with the U.S. and
other developed countries if we can show we managed this and we
can do such a comprehensive agreement,” Brinkmann told
reporters May 9.  Canada wants its beef producers to be allowed to export
more than 40,000 metric tons to  Europe , Brinkmann said.  “We are ready to deliver that, even go beyond that,” he
said. “But there’s a certain limit that we cannot go above,
because then our own producers in some countries depend very
much on that, like Ireland and  France .”  Dairy Market  In addition to the beef and pork dispute, sticking points
have included European access to Canada’s dairy market as well
as public procurement contracts at the provincial and municipal
levels, according to Clark.  Canada’s request to exclude financial services from the
investor-protection section has been a bone of contention in
Europe, while the EU’s request for stronger patent protection
for pharmaceutical companies may drive up Canadian health-care
costs.  European Union Trade Commissioner Karel  De Gucht  said
earlier this year that Canada was responsible for the lengthy
negotiations.  “What was on the table simply didn’t please me, so I
didn’t make an agreement,” De Gucht told the European
Parliament’s international trade committee Feb. 21 in Brussels.
“They need to make additional steps and, if not, there will not
be an agreement.”  In a March 13 interview with Bloomberg in  New York , Trade
Minister Ed Fast said negotiators had made progress since those
comments from De Gucht.  “We’re now into the end game where there is only a small
number of issues left to be addressed,” Fast said at the time,
adding an  agreement  is expected to increase bilateral trade by
20 percent and add C$12 billion ($11.6 billion) annually to
Canada’s economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa  at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  