-- Canadian Dollar Gains Most in Year as Poloz Says Rates to Rise
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-06-06T21:21:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/canadian-dollar-rises-with-oil-before-poloz-addresses-lawmakers.html
The Canadian dollar gained the most
in almost a year versus its U.S. peer as  Bank of Canada  Governor
Stephen Poloz in his first public comments reiterated his
predecessor’s view that rates will rise as the economy grows.  The currency briefly weakened before extending gains as
Poloz, who took office on June 3, said he expects a recovery in
foreign demand to boost exports. He added that he won’t give
“running commentary” on whether the nation’s currency is
overvalued. The unemployment rates in  Canada  and the U.S. are
forecast to remain unchanged when they are reported tomorrow.  “Poloz showed no willingness to take action to weaken the
Canadian dollar,” Adam Button, a currency analyst at
Forexlive.com in  Montreal , said in a telephone interview. “The
traders who piled into  U.S. dollar  longs over the last month are
getting absolutely mangled.” A long position is a bet an asset
will increase in value.  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, rose 0.8 percent to
C$1.0264 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto after
strengthening as much as 1.4 percent, the most since June 29,
2012. One loonie buys 97.39 U.S. cents.  The currency touched C$1.0199, crossing the 200-day moving
average of C$1.0204, considered by some traders a measure of
momentum.  Oil, Bonds  Crude-oil futures rose 1.1 percent to $94.76 a barrel in
 New York  and the Standard & Poor’s  GSCI index  of 24 commodities
gained 0.3 percent. The S&P 500 Index of stocks added 0.9
percent.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government bond yields were
little changed at 2.04 percent. The 1.5 percent security
maturing in June 2023 traded at C$95.16.  “As the world heals, interest rates will rise,” Poloz,
57, said during testimony to the House of Commons Finance
Committee in Ottawa. “It will be consistent with our inflation
target, which is to get inflation back up to 2 percent.”  Poloz, formerly chief executive officer of the nation’s
trade financing agency, declined to say whether the Canadian
dollar was overvalued.  ‘Jumpier Markets’  Former Governor  Mark Carney , who left June 1 to head the
 Bank of England , kept the key  interest rate  at 1 percent for the
22nd consecutive meeting on May 29. Poloz will probably maintain
Carney’s no-change policy for at least the rest of the year,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “The message is pretty much on par with what we’ve heard
from the Bank of Canada -- volatility can be expected in jumpier
markets,” Greg T. Moore, a currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank, said by phone from Toronto. “The jobs report
tomorrow is probably going to have bigger implications.”  Canadian  employment  rose by 15,000 in May, and the jobless
rate was unchanged at 7.2 percent, according to economists
 surveyed  by  Bloomberg News . Canadian employment increased by
12,500 in April as manufacturers added the most jobs in 11
months.  Employment in the U.S. matched April’s stronger-than-projected 165,000 gain, and the  unemployment rate  remained at a
four-year low of 7.5 percent, separate surveys forecast.  Risk Reversals  The one-month so-called 25-delta risk reversal rate fell to
1.0750, its lowest level since May 13. Risk reversals measure
the premium on options contracts to sell Canadian dollars versus
buying U.S. contracts that do the opposite.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators last week  decreased 
their bets the Canadian dollar will decline against the
greenback, figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures
Trading Commission show. The difference in the number of wagers
on a decline in the Canadian dollar compared with those on a
gain -- so-called net shorts -- was 33,359 on May 28, compared
with net shorts of 33,852 a week earlier.  Canada’s currency has fallen 1.8 percent in the past month
against nine developed nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted  Index. (SPX)  The greenback added 0.6
percent, while the Aussie dollar led decliners, dropping 5.9
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Altstedter in New York at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Cox  at 
 pcox16@bloomberg.net  