-- Chicago Fed Finds 80,000 Jobs Will Steady U.S. Unemployment
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-06-06T15:20:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/chicago-fed-finds-80-000-jobs-enough-to-steady-u-s-unemployment.html
Payroll gains averaging 80,000 a
month will be enough to keep the U.S. jobless rate steady over
the next couple of years as aging baby boomers retire and
 population growth  slows, according to  research  by economists at
the Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago.  Those demographic trends will probably continue, pushing
the figure down to about 35,000 jobs a month in the second half
of this decade, the report said.  “These estimates are lower than the conventional wisdom
that 100,000 to 150,000 jobs per month are needed to lower the
unemployment rate,” Daniel Aaronson, director of microeconomic
research at the Chicago Fed, and Scott Brave, a senior
economist, wrote in a report dated July 2013 on the central
bank’s website.  “This has ramifications for the potential speed at which
the economy can grow in the future,” the researchers wrote.  Aaronson and Brave tracked four variables to arrive at
their estimates: the  labor force   participation rate , population
growth, the rate of unemployment that would be associated with a
stable economy and the relationship between hiring as measured
by the Labor Department’s household survey and changes in
payrolls derived from its survey of employers.  The share of the working-age population that is either
employed or actively seeking work, known as the participation
rate, will drop by about 0.3 percentage point annually through
at least 2020, according to their estimates. This reflects the
retirement of the baby boom generation born after World War II.  Population Projections  The projections also use Census Bureau estimates that show
population growth will slow from the current trend of about a 1
percent gain a year to about 0.8 percent by 2018, and stabilize
thereafter.  The rate of  unemployment  that will keep inflation steady
jumped to about 6.25 percent during the recession and has
“gradually” declined since, according to the Chicago Fed
economists. It will keep moving down as the economy improves to
reach 5.25 percent in 2014, according to their projections.  Finally, Aaronson and Brave estimate that the relationship
between employment in the  household  and establishment surveys
will hold at its current level.  They said that one wild card that could increase job growth
above the trend projection was immigration.  Wild-Card  “It is plausible that immigration may increase more than
the Census Bureau’s forecast as firms look abroad to make up for
the declining labor force participation of domestic workers,”
the researchers write, saying that if that happens trend
employment could be boosted to 100,000 per month for the next
two years and then 65,000 during the second half of the decade.  The researchers also provided estimates using the most
optimistic and pessimistic scenarios. A smaller decline in labor
force participation and a lower natural  unemployment rate  could
also drive up trend employment and would mean it would take
120,000 jobs per month to steady unemployment over the second
half of the decade, while the most pessimistic would mean no
growth at all in payrolls will accomplish the same feat.  Above-trend job growth would be needed to close the current
employment gap, the researchers found.  “Payroll employment was about 6 million jobs, or about 4
percent below trend in 2012,” the essay states, based on
researchers’ baseline estimate. “Closing this gap by 2016, for
instance, would require payroll employment growth of about
195,000 per month on average over the next four years.”  Fed Debate  The research comes at a time when the  Federal Reserve ’s
policy making  Federal Open Market Committee  is debating whether
to slow or maintain unprecedented monetary accommodation in the
face of stubbornly high unemployment.  The FOMC has said it will buy $85 billion in bonds every
month until the labor market outlook improves “substantially.”
It has also pledged to keep  interest rates  near zero as long as
unemployment remains above 6.5 percent and the outlook for
inflation is less than 2.5 percent.  Unemployment stood at 7.5 percent in April, and economists
in a Bloomberg survey project that the May figure, to be issued
tomorrow, will be unchanged. The economy added 165,000 jobs in
April and will show a similar increase for May, according to the
Bloomberg survey median.  The study implies the economy can grow at a slower pace to
reach its equilibrium level. The pace at which an economy can
grow without stoking inflation, which economists term its speed
limit, reflects the rate of growth of the labor force plus how
much each worker can produce.  Productivity Focus  The study makes it “painfully clear that the reduced
supply of labor will necessitate a faster rate of productivity
to support above-trend growth in output and employment,” said
 Joe Brusuelas , a senior economist at Bloomberg LP in  New York .
“Accommodative monetary policy, eventual future rounds of
fiscal stimulus and smart immigration reform will be required to
support a faster pace of job growth.”  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans , 55, has been among the
most vocal proponents of accommodative policy in recent years.
He was an early supporter of the Fed’s third round of
quantitative easing and was the first to advocate tying the
zero-rate policy to economic indicators.  Evans said May 20 that he’d like to see employment gains of
200,000 or more for at least six months before judging the labor
market substantially improved.  Fed presidents rotate voting on monetary policy with Evans
voting this year. In 2011, he dissented twice from decisions of
the FOMC at which policy was unchanged. Evans favored adding
stimulus at those meetings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  