-- Stokke ‘Tripp Trapp’ Highchair Maker Said to Explore Sale
-- B y   K i e l   P o r t e r
-- 2013-06-07T14:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/childrens-furniture-maker-stokke-said-to-explore-sale.html
Stokke AS, the Norwegian maker of
children’s furniture, has appointed advisers to explore a sale
of the company, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The company, based in Aalesund,  Norway , and owned by the
Stokke family since its founding in 1932, has appointed  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to examine strategic options that may lead to
the sale of a majority stake this year, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the talks are private. Stokke
may have an enterprise value of about 400 million euros ($536
million), the people said.  “We have engaged an international strategic adviser to
assist the company” said Stokke’s chairman, Wilhelm Mohn, in an
e-mailed statement yesterday. Mohn declined to name the advisers
or say whether Stokke was exploring a sale.  Stokke is attracting interest from other furniture
companies and private-equity firms given its growth, the people
said, with Stokke revenue last year exceeding 1 billion kroner
($173 million) for the first time. The company’s products
include the “ Tripp Trapp ” highchair.  Buyout Opportunity  “Stokke is a healthy company and even in recessions,
anything tied to children does fine,” said Cruz del Barrio,
head of home and garden at research firm Euromonitor
International. “It’s a good opportunity for private equity. PAI
already has a retailer;  Carlyle Group  bought 60 percent of Tok
and Stok, which is the Ikea in  Brazil . Buyout firms could expand
the company in  Africa , for example.”  Stokke, whose products include $1,100 strollers and $219
baby carriers, makes goods that adapt as a child grows up. The
company’s $1,000 crib can be used until a child turns 10
according to a listing on  Amazon.com , while the Tripp Trapp can
be used from the first bite of solid food through  adulthood .  Sophie Bullock, a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs in  London ,
declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kiel Porter in London at 
 kporter17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  