-- China’s Africa Role Under New Scrutiny as Miners Expelled
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-07T10:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/chinese-county-warns-locals-from-going-to-ghana-to-mine-for-gold.html
Dozens of Chinese nationals face
expulsion from  Ghana  for illegal gold mining and prostitution in
a case that’s drawn new focus on  China ’s rush to tap African
resources and ramp up investment on the continent.  Ghana will expel 166 Chinese citizens who were detained
over the last week in the country’s gold-producing regions,
Francis Palmdeti, head of public affairs for Ghana’s Immigration
Service, said in a phone interview yesterday. Many lacked
resident permits, he said.  The arrests highlight how thousands of ordinary Chinese
have traveled to  Africa  in search of opportunity as China’s
state companies tap the continent’s natural resources to power
the world’s second-biggest economy. That’s strained ties as
African leaders voice new caution over investment from China,
the continent’s biggest trading partner since 2009.  “If you have gold, then Chinese want to go there to mine
it -- it’s like the American gold rush,” He Wenping, director
of the African Research Section at the  Chinese Academy of Social
Sciences , said by phone from Beijing. “Many times they are not
clear about Ghana’s laws since there are middlemen who bring
them over and help them sign a contract.”  Trade between Africa and China doubled since 2007 to more
than $200 billion and Chinese investment stands at $20 billion,
according to Standard Bank Group Ltd., Africa’s biggest lender.  While African nations welcome the investment and job
creation that Chinese investment brings, leaders from Botswana’s
Ian Khama to Nigerian central bank chief Lamido Sanusi have
questioned whether the relationship has benefited Africa as much
as it has China.  Wake Up  Africa needs to “wake up” to the realities of the
relationship, Sanusi wrote in the Financial Times in March. The
Chinese sell manufactured goods to Africa and buy resources,
which was the essence of colonialism, he wrote.  In February, Zambia revoked the mining license for a  coal
mine  after workers rioted there in November and killed a Chinese
manager. The mine, owned by a family of Chinese citizens, failed
to comply with at least 15 legal provisions, the country’s Mines
Minister Yamfwa Mukanga said.  China is also facing competition in Africa from other
nations. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe pledged 3.2 trillion
yen ($33 billion) in public and private support to Africa during
a conference in  Tokyo  on June 1-3.  The Chinese county of Shanglin issued a warning yesterday
against gold mining in Ghana and said it will help the miners
return home by paying for their plane tickets, Xinhua News
Agency reported. About 12,000 people from Shanglin county have
engaged in gold mining in Ghana, Africa’s second-largest gold
producer, since 2006, according to Xinhua.  Illegal Mining  “After Ghana’s government began to manage illegal gold-mining, China’s embassy in Ghana has several times requested
law-enforcement authorities enforce laws in a civilized manner
and stop certain individuals from robbing Chinese personnel,”
Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said at a briefing today.  China is investing heavily in the country’s resource sector
since oil reserves were discovered offshore in 2007. In August
2011, Ghana approved a $3 billion loan, the biggest in the
country’s history, from the  China Development Bank  for projects
including a natural-gas plant.  The influx of illegal Chinese miners has angered Ghanaian
farming communities who say their land and sources of drinking
water are threatened by their activities. The Chinese use high-end industrial machinery including excavators to dig while
Ghanaian small-scale miners mostly use shovels and pickaxes.  The Chinese are welcome as long as they “come through the
regulatory framework,” Isaac Kojo Abraham, a senior public
relations officer at Ghana’s Minerals Commission, said by phone.
“If they come to do illegal mining, the nation loses the fees
and taxes they would have paid for their activities.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net ;
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  