-- China Vanke Chairman Says Country Faces Risk of Home Bubble
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-06T08:54:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/china-vanke-chairman-says-country-faces-risk-of-property-bubble.html
China Vanke Co. (000002)  Chairman Wang Shi
said the country’s property market faces the risk of a
“bubble,” reiterating concerns the nation’s biggest developer
by sales raised three months ago.  The bubble isn’t “light,” Wang said at a conference in
 Shanghai  today. “If the bubble lasted, it will be dangerous.”  Home prices have been increasing even as the government in
March stepped up a three-year campaign to cool the market, which
has included raising down-payment and mortgage requirements,
imposing a property tax for the first time in Shanghai and
Chongqing, and enacting purchase restrictions in about 40 cities.
New home prices jumped 6.9 percent in May, the most since they
reversed declines in December,  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the
country’s biggest real estate website owner, said.  Wang said in a March  CBS Corp. (CBS)  broadcast of the 60 Minutes
news program that the housing bubble could spell “disaster”
for China’s real estate market and that debt held by developers
is a “serious problem.”  He said today he disagreed with the news program’s
conclusion that the bubble will burst immediately, as the
housing market in the country is very diverse. He referred to
“ghost towns” where homes are built and left unoccupied, while
as much as 60 percent of other housing projects in other cities
are snapped up the first day they’re put up for sale.  Can’t Generalize  “You can’t generalize for the Chinese market,” he said.
“Then of course, if the bubbles are not controlled, the result
will be catastrophic.”  The average price in  China ’s 10 biggest cities, including
Beijing and Shanghai, jumped 9.7 percent from a year earlier to
17,202 yuan ($2,805) per square meter last month, up 1.1 percent
from April, SouFun said.  Shares of Shenzhen-based Vanke fell 2.9 percent to 11.49
yuan at the close of trading, the most since April 23, while the
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  lost 1.3 percent. The gauge tracking
developers dropped 2.7 percent, the most among the five industry
groups in the benchmark.  The government called for higher down payments and interest
rates for second-home mortgages in cities with “excessively
fast” price gains and ordered stricter enforcement of taxes, in
the latest measures announced at the beginning of March.  Tishman Speyer  The “long-term dynamics” of China will create “enormous
opportunities” in the country’s real estate market, said  Rob Speyer , president and co-chief executive officer of Tishman
Speyer Properties LP, the owner of New York’s Rockefeller Center,
in an interview in Shanghai today.  The closely held New York-based developer is a long-term
investor in China, Speyer said. Tishman has developments in four
Chinese cities: Shanghai, nearby Suzhou, the western city of
Chengdu and Tianjin in the north.  Vanke began to expand overseas this year as Chinese
developers take advantage of demand for real estate around the
world from Chinese nationals and as prices at home soar. Vanke
signed a deal with Tishman in February to develop two
residential towers in San Francisco. Ground breaking of the
project will be on June 26, Speyer said today.  In April, it entered a venture with  Singapore ’s  Keppel Land
Ltd. (KPLD)  to buy 30 percent in a Keppel unit.  Investing Abroad  “There are three reasons why we invest abroad: first, we
go out to industrial developed countries to learn and prepare
for China’s city transformation,” Wang said today. “Secondly,
we would like to balance our investment. Thirdly, we follow our
customers: as Chinese buyers go to the U.S., so do we.”  Vanke has 98 percent of its investments in China and
planned to have 20 percent internationally, Wang said without
giving a timeframe.  The developer has carved out a market niche for itself by
focusing on smaller homes that appeal to the mass market,
helping boost its sales. Property sales at the company rose 14.5
percent to 14.2 billion  yuan  ($2.3 billion) in May from the
previous month, the company said in a statement on June 4.  The reason Vanke has managed to do well even as the
government has implemented curbs is because it targets “the
real demand,” Wang said today. The smallest apartments the
company sells are about 14 square meters (151 square feet),
while its mass-market units are 60 square meters to 80 square
meters, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  