-- China’s Small-Cap Stocks May Fall Further 10%, Shenyin Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-06T07:37:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/china-s-small-company-stocks-may-fall-further-10-shenyin-says.html
China’s  ChiNext index  of small
companies may fall a further 10 percent from current levels
because of valuations and concern they may miss earnings
estimates, according to Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.  The ChiNext index in Shenzhen slid 1 percent to 1,022.13 at
the close, capping a 6.2 percent slide from this year’s high set
on May 27. The measure had rallied as much as 84 percent since
the start of December on speculation the new government’s
efforts to restructure the economy would benefit companies in
the consumer and technology industries. Factory reports this
week showed small businesses may be struggling.  “Stretched valuations and overly high expectations about
the new economy and the short-term success of the economic
transformation are the reasons for the correction in the
ChiNext,” Wang Sheng, an analyst at the Shanghai-based
brokerage, wrote in a report dated today. “Expectations about
tight liquidity and lower-than-estimated earnings are catalysts
for the decline.”  The ChiNext traded at 58.1 times reported earnings on May
30, the highest in almost two years, according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg. Its current multiple is 56.2 times, compared with
12.1 times for the  Shanghai Composite Index. (SHCOMP)   Profits for small-cap companies rose an average of 2.6
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, compared with
a 9.1 percent decline last year, according to a May 6 report
from Shenyin & Wanguo, ranked first for Chinese equity strategy
research by New Fortune magazine last year.  Liquidity Outlook  Tighter liquidity will also hurt the ChiNext, Wang wrote in
the report. The benchmark seven-day repurchase rate averaged
3.57 percent in May, the highest in 13 months.  The official Purchasing Managers’ Index for smaller
companies slid in May, even as the broader gauge rose, while a
PMI index from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics that
includes small enterprises fell more than forecast to an eight-month low.  Chinese mutual funds allocated more than 50 percent of
their assets to small-cap stocks at the start of the year,
compared with 17 percent for larger companies, according to
estimates from Bank of Communications Co. The Shanghai Composite
dropped for a sixth day today, losing 1.3 percent to 2,242.11.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  