-- Christie the Cost-Cutter Shrugs Off $24 Million Election
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-06-07T01:07:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/christie-the-cost-cutter-shrugs-off-24-million-election.html
(Corrects primary date and day in ninth paragraph.)  Republican Governor  Chris Christie ,
who shrugged off the $24 million cost of special New Jersey
elections he called to replace deceased U.S. Senator  Frank Lautenberg , kept a tighter purse May 9 in vetoing early voting.  The Democratic-sponsored proposal he killed last month
would’ve let residents start casting ballots at polling places
14 days before an election. In his veto message, Christie called
the measure “hasty, counterproductive” and, at a cost of $25
million, too burdensome for taxpayers.  Now voters will spend almost that much to pick a successor
to Lautenberg. The five-term Democrat and the oldest senator, at
89, died June 3. Christie, whose focus on shrinking government
and the $31.7 billion state budget made him a national figure,
could’ve cut the cost of the special election in half had he set
the final vote on the day of the state’s general election.  “People deserve to have an elected representative and the
statute gives me the right to make that determination and I’m
not going to shy away from making those decisions,” the 50-year-old governor, who is seeking a second term in November,
said at a June 4 news briefing.  Making the votes concurrent would’ve put the Senate race at
the top of the Nov. 5 ballot, and threatened to boost Democratic
turnout and cut into Christie’s anticipated victory margin over
Democrat Barbara Buono, a state senator from Metuchen.  “The issue here is that Chris Christie doesn’t want to win
by 10 points,” said  Patrick Murray , director of the Monmouth
University polling institute in  West Long Branch , New Jersey.
“He wants to win by 25 points.”  If Christie had set the special election on Nov. 5, the
Senate race would have played out alongside his own campaign.
Newark Mayor  Cory Booker , a rising Democratic star who weighed a
challenge to Christie, has been preparing a senate bid.
Lautenberg had said in February that he wouldn’t seek a sixth
term in 2014. Booker didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Christie, enjoying high voter approval ratings after his
response to  Hurricane Sandy  late last year, holds an edge of
more than 30 percentage points in recent polls over Buono, a 59-year-old lawyer whose campaign fund is half the size of his.  Why Wednesday  Under options outlined in a legal opinion from the state’s
non-partisan Office of Legislative Services, Christie set the
special-election for Oct. 16, with a primary on Aug. 13. The
final balloting is on a Wednesday --  New Jersey  elections are
typically held on Tuesdays. The normal general election, led by
the governor’s race, occurs less than three weeks after the
final senate vote.  The timing left would-be candidates with less than a week
to gather the 1,000 signatures of registered voters they need to
submit to qualify for the primary ballot, according to the state
Elections Division. The filing deadline is June 10.  The dates were the earliest he could set, Christie said. He
rejected charges by Democrats that he was playing politics with
the process.  “I want to have an elected senator as soon as possible,”
Christie told reporters. “It’s three weeks before the general
election. The political purpose is to give people a voice.”  The governor said he plans to appoint an interim
replacement by next week.  The primary and special elections each will cost $11.9
million, according to a breakdown by the legislative services
office. Printing ballots, running required advertisements,
renting polling places and setting up voting-machines will cost
about $6.5 million while paying workers will add $5.4 million.  “I don’t know what the cost is and I quite frankly don’t
care,” Christie said. “I don’t think you can put a price tag
on what it’s worth to have an elected person in the United
States Senate.”  Cost Cutter  Christie, who took office in January 2010, has focused on
spending and tax cuts. In his first year, he lowered school and
municipal aid to close a budget gap. He also ended an $8.7
billion transit project to create an additional commuter-rail
tunnel under the  Hudson River  into  Manhattan , saying New Jersey
couldn’t afford it. In 2011, he signed measures boosting pension
and health-care costs for state workers.  State revenue may miss Christie’s targets by as much as
$937 million through June 2014 as collections from online
gambling and energy taxes come up short, the legislative
services office said last month. Receipts have exceeded targets
for five straight months after trailing expectations in the
first half of fiscal 2013, which ends June 30.  “In a lot of the policy choices the governor makes, he
kind of relies on the rubric that we don’t have the money,”
said John Wisniewski, the state  Democratic Party  chairman. “The
question you have to ask anytime someone changes their story is
whether they were lying then or now?”  Programs Cut  The cost of the October vote would be enough to fund the $3
million Back to Work N.J. program that Christie rejected. The
effort pairs jobless workers with businesses through six weeks
of training, according to Democrats in the state Assembly. There
would be enough left over to restore $7 million the governor cut
in women’s health-care funding, said Senate Majority Leader
Loretta Weinberg, a Teaneck Democrat.  “The fundamental issue here is that we aren’t really
sitting on a lot of money,” said Wisniewski, an assemblyman
from Sayreville. “We don’t have $12 million lying around.”  The governor had discretion in setting an election date,
according to a ruling by the legislative services office. The
interim appointee could have served until the November 2014
general election, the memo said.  Christie said he dismissed the chance to appoint a fill-in
for the 18 months remaining in Lautenberg’s term because voters’
needs outweighed “the political advantage that would come to
me” from placing an ally in  Washington  through 2014.  Costly Finger  New Jersey voters haven’t sent a Republican to the  U.S.
Senate  since 1972, when they elected Clifford Case.  “This is about guaranteeing the people of New Jersey both
a choice and a voice in the process and the representation that
they deserve in Washington,” Christie said.  Democrats control the state legislature, where all 120
seats are up for grabs Nov. 5. Party leaders said they wanted a
2013 special senate election on that date as well.  Buono called Christie’s decision “cynical and arrogant.”
Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver, an East Orange Democrat, said it
was “transparently political.” Special elections historically
result in low voter turnout, said Wisniewski.  “The decision by Governor Christie to hold a special
election in October instead of November is mind boggling in
every rational way,” said Senator Richard Codey, a Democrat
from Roseland. “It’s as if he gave the residents of this state
the finger and that finger will cost $24 million.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  