-- Clifford Chance, Covington, Chadbourne: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-06-06T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/clifford-chance-covington-chadbourne-business-of-law.html
Three of the U.K.’s highest-grossing
law firms raised salaries for  London  lawyers, who can earn as
much as 65,000 pounds ($99,000) in their first year after
qualifying to practice.  Clifford Chance  LLP said on June 4 it would increase pay
for newly qualified lawyers by about 3 percent, to 63,500
pounds, while Linklaters LLP raised those rates 4 percent to
64,000 pounds. Slaughter and May also raised pay for that level
about 2 percent to 63,000 pounds. Allen & Overy LLP and
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP kept salaries unchanged.  “The London office has had another successful year,” said
Clifford Chance partner David Bickerton.  The Magic Circle, comprising the five largest and most
profitable British law firms, cut or froze pay over several
years as deal work dried up during the financial crisis that
began in 2008. While the salaries of junior lawyers are rising
again, they lag behind their  New York  counterparts, who make as
much as $160,000 in their first year.  About six in 10 U.K. lawyers received a pay raise in 2012,
according to a  survey  by recruitment firm  Robert Walters Plc. (RWA) 
Nearly 70 percent of those got an increase of less than 6
percent.  “It’s certainly looking up,” said Nick Shillinglaw, a
legal recruiter at  Michael Page International Plc (MPI)  in London.
“There’s more confidence in the market now.”  Finance and niche practices, such as intellectual property
litigation or tax, are attracting the highest salary offers, he
said.  Law firms are under pressure to pay junior lawyers
competitively while not angering clients, who have had increased
leverage during the economic downturn to pressure firms to lower
their bills.  “We believe this strikes the right balance between
rewarding our associates with increased scales at the same time
as recognizing that economic conditions remain tough,”  Richard
Clark , the executive partner at Slaughter and May, said in an e-mail.  Law Firm News  Federal Election Commission General Counsel Rejoins Covington  Federal Election Commission General Counsel Tony Herman is
returning to Covington & Burling LLP.  “We are delighted to welcome Tony back to Covington,”
Timothy Hester, chairman of the firm’s management committee,
said in a statement.  At the FEC, Mr. Herman was responsible for managing
approximately 100 lawyers in the Office of General Counsel’s
four divisions. He led a major restructuring of the office that
resulted in improved efficiency and work quality.  “I enjoyed working at the FEC during an important juncture
in the nation’s election cycle, but I look forward to returning
to Covington, a truly unique and wonderful law firm,” Mr.
Herman said.  Herman’s litigation practice has included intellectual
property and technology, employment, food and drug and general
commercial litigation.  Moves at Hogan Lovells and Chadbourne & Parke  Hogan Lovells  LLP yesterday announced the addition of three
partners from Chadbourne & Parke LLP to its litigation and
arbitration practice, while Chadbourne named a new head of its
arbitration practice.  Oliver J. Armas, who had been co-head of Chadbourne’s
international arbitration group, and Phoebe A. Wilkinson, the
former co-head of Chadbourne’s product liability group, will
join Hogan Lovells in New York. Luis Enrique Graham, a
litigation and arbitration practitioner, will be resident in
Mexico City, with a significant presence in New York.  “This team offers strategic experience in international
arbitration and products liability for a diverse range of
clients,” Warren Gorrell, co-chief executive officer of Hogan
Lovells, said in a statement.  Chadbourne & Parke yesterday named Mark Beckett as its new
head of the firm’s international arbitration practice.  “International arbitration is a core strength of our firm,
and we are very excited about Mark’s new role in leading the
group,” Andrew Giaccia, Chadbourne’s managing partner, said in
a statement. Beckett, along with partner Rachel Thorn, one
counsel and two associates joined Chadbourne from Latham &
Watkins LLP in December.  Nixon Peabody Partner Becomes President of New York Bar  The New York State Bar Association, the nation’s largest
voluntary bar association with 76,000 members, has selected
Nixon Peabody LLP partner David M. Schraver as its next
president. Schraver, whose term began on June 1st, will serve as
the 116th president in the bar association’s history.  Schraver plans to focus much of his one-year term on the
future of legal education and the profession at a time when many
law school graduates are shouldering six-figure  student loans 
and facing uncertain job prospects. Under the theme of “Serving
the Profession, Serving the Public,” he plans to engage law
school educators, practicing attorneys, judges and others in a
yearlong examination of how best to prepare new attorneys for a
changing profession.  “It is critical that the state bar continue the momentum
we’ve gained on many issues, as well as be prepared to address
other matters as they arise. Our association needs to be focused
and flexible in dealing with issues within our profession and in
the communities we serve,” Schraver said in a statement.  Schraver will continue to represent his clients while
serving as NYSBA president. His practice includes a broad range
of complex civil and commercial litigation in state and federal
courts, with a special emphasis on Indian law, energy/utilities
litigation, contract litigation, and fiduciary and professional
liability.  Kilpatrick Townsend Adds Partner to Insurance Recovery Team  Mary Craig Calkins has joined the Los Angeles office of
Kilpatrick Townsend & Stockton LLP as a partner in the firm’s
insurance recovery team. She had been a partner at Jenner &
Block LLP.  “Mary adds exceptional depth to an already strong team,”
said Helen Michael, co-head of the insurance recovery team. “We
have been looking to continue to grow our group on the West
Coast and Mary is among the most recognized and highly regarded
leaders in our field. Kilpatrick Townsend clients will be the
beneficiaries of her expertise.”  Calkins is a litigator who focuses on complex commercial
litigation and insurance recovery for policyholders. She has
extensive experience concerning directors’ and officers’
liability, entertainment and intellectual property claims,
construction defects, e-commerce and technology claims, first
party property and business interruption losses, and broker
liability issues.  Conferences  At ABA Conference, Law Firms Said to Watch Privilege Cases  A handful of closely watched cases currently under review
by state supreme courts may signal the fate of a long-running
campaign to expand protection for internal law firm
communications regarding potential malpractice suits.  For over two decades, courts routinely rejected law firms’
efforts to shield internal communications about potential
malpractice liability to their clients. Lower courts have in
recent years moved away from that rule, and some of those cases
are now pending before the highest courts in several
jurisdictions.  A May 31 panel at the 39th ABA National Conference of
Professional Responsibility, held in  San Antonio , said the cases
could allow lawyers to keep confidential communications within
the firm when the firm faces malpractice.  The program was moderated by Mark L. Tuft, a partner at
Cooper, White & Cooper LLP, and included three other
participants who focus on attorney liability matters: John C. Koski, general counsel of Dentons US LLP, Merri A. Baldwin, a
partner at Rogers Joseph O’Donnell PC, and Allison D. Rhodes, a
partner at Hinshaw & Culbertson LLP.  The panel focused on measures law firms can take to avoid
being compelled to turn over damaging internal communications
absent judicial recognition of a privilege to keep these
communications confidential.  The panel, for example, suggested that if a firm filed a
lawsuit that was dismissed as untimely, the firm should withdraw
from the matter. If withdrawal is impossible, the firm can ask
the client to consent to the firm’s engaging in internal,
privileged communications about its potential liability.  “That letter, if properly drafted, also solves the
problem,” Rhodes said at the panel. She added that firms
increasingly seek such consent before problems arise.  For more, click here.  Video  Law School Applications Down Except for Top Schools  It’s easier to be admitted to law school these days because
fewer people want to be lawyers, according to data about the
entering Class of 2012 released by the  American Bar Association 
and the Law School Admissions Council.  Bloomberg Law crunched the numbers, but surprising aspects
remain about law school admissions.  The number of applications this year for full-time programs
fell 12 percent, to 444,000. Applications were down at most
schools, but they increased at 25 schools.  To see the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  