-- Cooper Says Lincoln National Can Add Risk in Yield Hunt
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-06-06T16:52:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/cooper-say-lincoln-national-can-add-risk-in-yield-hunt.html
Lincoln National Corp. (LNC)  has room for
adding riskier holdings to boost yields after the insurer cut
its allocation of junk-rated debt, Chief Investment Officer
Ellen Cooper said today.  The insurer is finding value in assets including direct
middle-market loans, private placements, commercial mortgages,
hedge funds and private equity, Cooper said. Some strategies
increase overall new money yield by as much as 0.2 percentage
points, she said.  Cooper is working to boost yields on a portfolio of $88.4
billion after joining the Radnor, Pennsylvania-based insurer
from Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s asset management unit last year.
She said Lincoln’s overall portfolio yield will probably keep
falling as the  Federal Reserve ’s stimulus policies keep rates
low and older investments mature.  “We have the capacity to take risk now,” Cooper said in a
presentation to investors. “We’re going to do it in a
thoughtful, controlled way, when we think we’re getting paid.”  Cooper said Lincoln has 6 percent of its fixed-maturity
portfolio in junk-rated debt, down from almost 10 percent in the
second quarter of 2009. Unrealized gains on the company’s bonds
have swelled since the end of 2011. About 71 percent of the
company’s investments are in corporate bonds and 8 percent are
in  mortgage loans .  “The significant losses from the financial crisis are
behind us,” she said.  At the end of the first quarter, Lincoln had about $847
million in alternative investments. Thirty percent was in hedge
funds, a quarter in buyout firms, and 12 percent in energy-focused private equity firms, according to today’s  presentation .  Finding Talent  Cooper said today that finding the outside companies to
help run Lincoln’s investments can distinguish the insurer from
peers. She said that Lincoln seeks asset managers that can
customize investments for insurers.  “I actually came from an asset manager, and so I very much
believe in this overall model,” she said. “We can move in and
out of asset classes and opportunities faster than if we needed
to actually build a team or fire a team.”  Her remarks echo comments this week by James Tisch, the
chief executive officer of Loews Corp., at the Bloomberg Hedge
Funds Summit in  New York .  “We farm it out because we get enormous diversity by doing
that,” he told Bloomberg Television’s  Stephanie Ruhle . “By
having a hedge fund doing it, we’re able to rent the talent that
we want to have. If we’re dissatisfied with their performance,
we can fire that talent.”  Narayanan, Bronchetti  In an interview in March, Cooper said she was moving about
$125 million from multi-strategy hedge funds to managers that
employ individual approaches with low correlations to stocks and
bonds.  Cooper has also been building her investing team. Last
month, she hired Paul Narayanan as managing director of
portfolio management analytics from  American International Group
Inc. (AIG)  She also added Jayson Bronchetti from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
as managing director of tactical strategies in fixed income.  Lincoln slipped 14 cents to $33.74 at 12:33 p.m. in New
York. The company has advanced 30 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  