-- Copper Posts Biggest Loss in Two Weeks Amid Demand Concerns
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-06-06T17:44:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/copper-drops-from-two-week-high-as-slowing-growth-curbs-demand.html
Copper capped the biggest loss in two
weeks in New York as signs of slowdowns in  China  and  Germany  add
to concerns that global economic growth will ebb, dimming the
outlook for metals demand.  German factory orders slid more than forecast in April,
figures showed today. Export growth in China, the biggest copper
consumer, probably grew in May at half the pace of a month
earlier, economists said in a Bloomberg survey before data due
June 8.  RBC Capital Markets  cut its 2013 forecast for copper
prices by 9.3 percent.  “Poor global economic growth prospects are weighing” on
metals, H. Fraser Phillips, a Toronto-based analyst at RBC, said
in a note today. “Significant excess inventories have
accumulated, and capacity utilization rates are well below full
effect levels, pointing to a poor commodity pricing
environment.”  Copper futures for delivery in July fell 1.6 percent to
settle at $3.319 a pound at 1:12 p.m. on the Comex in  New York ,
the biggest decline since May 23.  RBC said copper prices this year will average $3.40, down
from an earlier forecast of $3.75.  U.S. factory orders rose less than estimated in April,
government figures showed yesterday.  “The market will be nervous given the data we have seen
this week,” Ole Hansen, the head of commodity strategy at Saxo
Bank A/S in Copenhagen, said in an e-mail.  Inventories monitored by the London Metal Exchange have
surged 91 percent this year. Orders to remove copper from those
sites declined 1.1 percent to 223,650 metric tons today.  On the LME, copper for delivery in three months dropped 1.6
percent to $7,335 a ton ($3.33 a pound)  Aluminum, zinc, lead, nickel and tin also slid in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  