-- Cosan Profit Misses Estimates as Debt Costs, Taxes Jump
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2013-06-06T13:15:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/cosan-profit-misses-estimates-as-debt-costs-taxes-jump.html
Cosan SA Industria & Comercio, which
controls the world’s biggest sugar-cane processor with  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , posted a  quarterly  profit that missed estimates
after debt costs and tax expenses jumped. The shares slumped.  Net income shrank to 29.7 million reais ($14 million) in
the fiscal fourth quarter ended March 31 from 149.6 million
reais a year earlier, Sao Paulo-based Cosan said in a regulatory
filing yesterday. The company was expected to post a profit of
127.8 million reais excluding some items, according to the
average of four analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Debt costs at Cosan, the third-largest fuel distributor in
Brazil, have soared after the company took over natural gas
distributor Cia. de Gas de Sao Paulo, known as Comgas, in
November. Net financial expenses including borrowing costs
increased more than eight-fold to 170.1 million reais. Tax
expenses jumped 28-fold to 173.8 million reais after rebates in
previous quarters weren’t repeated.  “The bottom line disappointed and was below our estimate
due to higher financial expenses and income tax,” Auro Rozenbaum, an equity analyst at Banco Bradesco SA in  Sao Paulo ,
said in a note to clients today.  Cosan dropped 2.6 percent to 44.82 at 10:13 a.m. in Sao
Paulo, leading losses on the benchmark Ibovespa index and
heading to the lowest close since April 22.  The sugar and ethanol company founded by billionaire Rubens
Ometto started distributing fuel and lubricants in Brazil after
buying assets from Exxon Mobil Corp. in 2008 and partnering with
Shell three years later. Cosan’s Raizen joint venture with Shell
is Brazil’s largest sugar and ethanol maker.  Sales jumped 46 percent to 8.46 billion reais after
gasoline and diesel prices rose in the quarter and the takeover
of Comgas boosted revenue.  Brazil authorized state-run Petroleo Brasileiro SA, known
as Petrobras, to raise prices for gasoline sold to distributors
by 6.6 percent and those for diesel by 11 percent in the first
quarter, leading gas stations to increase prices at the pump.  Petrobras and Ultrapar Participacoes SA are  Brazil ’s
largest fuel distributors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  