-- Cowboy Brent’s Bail at Risk as Prosecutors Cite Pot Use
-- B y   T o m   K o r o s e c   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-06-06T22:31:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/cowboy-brent-s-bail-at-risk-as-prosecutors-cite-pot-use-1-.html
Dallas Cowboys football player Josh
Brent, charged with intoxication manslaughter for a car crash
that killed teammate  Jerry Brown , tested positive for marijuana
and should be taken into custody, prosecutors said.  Heath Harris, an Assistant Criminal District Attorney for
Dallas County, today told state court Judge  Robert Burns  that
Brent had failed a urine sample analysis ordered last month
after prosecutors previously sought to revoke Brent’s bail for
allegedly tampering with an electronic monitoring device.  “On Tuesday, June 4, 2013, the state learned the confirmed
results of the urine specimen taken from the defendant on May
24, 2013, tested positive for marijuana and marijuana
metabolite,” Harris said in a court filing.  The car accident happened Dec. 8 when the car, which was
moving at a high rate of speed, flipped at least once after
hitting a curb, according to police. Brent had a blood-alcohol
level more than twice the legal limit for operating a  motor
vehicle , the Dallas Morning News has reported.  Brent, 25, was indicted in December and faces as long as 20
years in prison if he’s found guilty. The defensive lineman’s
trial is scheduled for Sept. 23. Debbie Denmon, spokeswoman for
Dallas County  District Attorney  Craig Watkins, said Burns
scheduled a hearing on the motion on June 21.  Defense lawyer George Milner did not immediately respond to
a telephone message today seeking comment on the prosecutors’
request.  Ankle Bracelet  Bail terms required Brent to post a $100,000 bond. He was
forbidden from consuming alcohol and required to wear the ankle
bracelet, which monitors his blood alcohol level.  While the judge rejected prosecutors prior request to
rescind Brent’s bail at the May 24 hearing, Burns ordered
additional sobriety monitoring for the player and admonished him
for failing to return home by 3 a.m. so that his existing
alcohol intake monitoring device could download its data.  “You need to be home when you need to be home,” Burns
told Brent then. He also ordered the urinalysis.  Brent was in his third season in the  National Football
League  after playing at the  University of Illinois  and started
five games last season.  Brown, who also attended  Illinois , joined the Cowboys’
practice squad on Oct. 24. He had yet to appear on the active
roster.  The case is State of  Texas  v. Brent, F12-35545, Criminal
District Court, Dallas County, Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  