-- Credit Suisse Said to Weigh Sale of Part of German Bank
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2013-06-06T12:50:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/credit-suisse-said-to-weigh-selling-part-of-german-private-bank.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Switzerland ’s
second-biggest bank, is considering the sale of part of its
wealth management business in  Germany , according to three people
with knowledge of the matter.  The bank may focus on ultra-rich clients and sell the
remainder to boost the profitability of the German business,
said two of the people, who asked not to be identified because
the deliberations are private. A decision hasn’t been made and a
sale may not happen, the people said. An official for Credit
Suisse in Zurich declined to comment.  Credit Suisse is seeking to “enhance efficiency” in
western  Europe  to help the bank save about 750 million Swiss
francs ($796 million) annually at the private banking and wealth
management division by the end of 2015, Chief Executive Officer
 Brady Dougan  told investors this week. Swiss and emerging-market
clients account for about 70 percent of the  private bank ’s
assets under management, Dougan said.  The company, based in Zurich, is examining various measures
to cut costs and raise profit across different countries in
western Europe, two of the people said.  Credit Suisse said in 2011 it would seek to increase profit
at its private bank by 800 million francs by 2014 as sluggish
client activity squeezed margins. The company integrated its
Clariden Leu wealth management unit with the rest of the
division and merged consumer and private-banking units in
Switzerland to cut expenses. Last year, the bank said it would
also combine private banking with asset management.  Comprehensive Review  “The integration of Clariden Leu is expected to yield cost
savings of 125 million francs from 2014, while streamlined Swiss
regional coverage will add 50 million francs,” Citigroup Inc.
analyst  Kinner Lakhani  wrote in a May 31 note after a meeting
with Rolf Boegli, who heads Credit Suisse’s business with
premium clients and external asset managers in Switzerland.  Additional cost measures include a “comprehensive
portfolio review with actions being taken where markets do not
contribute towards targets,” Lakhani wrote.  Credit Suisse has already taken steps to improve profit in
Germany. The bank informed staff in December that it would shut
three of 12 private-banking locations in the country and cut 150
of about 500 jobs. Profitability considerations are unrelated to
the investigations by German authorities of clients with
undeclared offshore accounts, one person said.  The company agreed in March to sell British wealth manager
JO Hambro Investment Management Ltd. for 50 million pounds ($77
million). That same month Credit Suisse bought Morgan Stanley’s
wealth-management operation in the U.K.,  Italy  and Dubai to
expand its business with ultra-high net worth clients --
typically those with at least $50 million to invest -- which it
called “a key priority.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  