-- TCW Disregards Singer Default Talk in Argentine Bond Bet
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i   a n d   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2013-06-06T19:17:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/tcw-disregards-singer-default-talk-in-bond-bet-argentina-credit.html
TCW Group Inc.’s $7.6 billion
flagship emerging-markets debt fund, which has  beaten  98 percent
of rivals in the past five years, is snapping up Argentine bonds
at just the right time.  While the world’s least-creditworthy nation has threatened
to default rather than comply with a U.S. ruling to pay holdout
creditors, the U.S.-based  TCW Emerging Markets Income Fund (TGEIX)  has
bought about $203 million in principal of bonds since an appeals
court in October ordered the nation to treat all its bondholders
equally, according to filings compiled by Bloomberg. Argentina’s
dollar-denominated notes have returned an average 12.9 percent
since Nov. 1, the most among 53 countries tracked by Bloomberg’s
 Emerging Market Sovereign Bond Index. (BEMS)   “Technical default is a high probability, but we still
think that Argentina’s willingness to service its debt is strong
and they will figure out a way to pay their bondholders,” David Robbins, who helps manage the Emerging Markets Income Fund, said
in a telephone interview from  New York . “Our feeling is at this
point in the market, you’re supposed to be getting long
 Argentina  in spite of the potential volatility coming from the
imminent court ruling.”  The institutional share class of the fund, also managed by
Penny Foley, returned an annual average of  12.83 percent  over
the past five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Similarly-managed funds returned 7.4 percent on average in the
same period.  Increasing Holdings  The fund, which didn’t own Argentine debt before November,
has increased its position four out of the five months since,
company filings through April show. It holds about $54 million
in principal of the so-called Global 17 dollar bonds and about
$88 million of euro-denominated discount bonds due 2033.  TCW is now among the biggest holders of those two
restructured bonds, according to company filings compiled by
Bloomberg. The flagship fund, along with the firm’s smaller
local-currency fund, also own dollar bonds due 2015 sold under
Argentine law, which won’t be directly affected by the appeals
court’s decision.  Investors are waiting for the federal appeals court to
decide whether to uphold a lower court order that would require
Argentina to pay in full creditors from its $95 billion default
in 2001, including billionaire  Paul Singer ’s Elliott Management
Corp., that rejected debt swaps in 2005 and 2010, at the same
time as holders of the restructured bonds. Creditors accepted
losses of about 70 percent in the restructurings.  While Argentina has said it wouldn’t comply with such an
order, fueling speculation the country will default for the
second time in 12 years, TCW says that it is betting the nation
will eventually find a way to service performing debt.  Default Swaps  Filings show the TCW Emerging Markets Income Fund increased
its Global 17 notes by 16 percent in April, which rallied after
Argentine Vice President  Amado Boudou  said March 31 the nation
will pay bondholders of restructured debt regardless of the
court outcome.  While trading in five-year credit-default swaps indicates
the probability of a default at 88 percent over that period,
Boudou’s comments have fueled speculation that Argentina will
remove its bonds from U.S. jurisdiction or design a local-payment system to continue servicing the securities.  “There are a variety of potential solutions that the
government may choose to pursue,” said Robbins.  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc says that bullish investors
are underestimating how difficult it may be for Argentina to pay
bondholders because District Court Judge Thomas Griesa’s order,
if upheld by the appeals court, would block intermediaries from
helping implement such a plan.  ‘Staying Out’  Since the end of last year, Aberdeen’s Select Emerging
Markets Bond Fund has sold all its holdings of Argentine
restructured dollar and euro bonds, March 31 filings show.  This “boils down to the logistics of payment,”  Edwin Gutierrez , who helps oversee $12 billion at Aberdeen in  London ,
said in an e-mail. “That’s why we’re just staying out.”  The cost to protect Argentine debt against default with
swaps over the next five years fell 155 basis points, or 1.55
percentage point, to 2,933 basis points at 3 p.m. in New York,
according to CMA Ltd prices.  The extra yield investors demand to own Argentine bonds
instead of U.S. treasuries rose 10 basis points to 1,205 basis
points at 3:13 p.m. in New York, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Global index.  AllianceBernstein LP, which owns at least $588 million of
Argentine debt in principal, according to first-quarter filing
data compiled by Bloomberg, says holding local law bonds and so-called par bonds maturing in 2038 enables the firm to have a
defensive position while still profiting from the highest yields
in  emerging markets .  ‘Defensively Postured’  The firm is supporting Argentina in challenging the lower
court decision as a member of the Exchange Bondholder Group, an
alliance of investment companies that also includes BlackRock
Inc. and Gramercy Funds Management LLC.  The par bonds are the cheapest dollar-denominated
restructured bonds at 33.7 cents on the dollar and yield 11.3
percent, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  “If there is an inability to pay because of a court
ruling, we believe owning low dollar-priced bonds gives a better
risk-return ratio in this uncertain environment,” Paul Denoon,
who oversees about $29 billion as head of emerging-market debt
at AllianceBernstein, said in a telephone interview from New
York. “We’re more defensively postured from a security
selection. There are some things for us to do in here to try and
protect the downside, and generate what is still pretty
attractive income in today’s environment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  