-- Detroit’s Van Gogh Would Be Better Off in L.A.
-- B y   V i r g i n i a   P o s t r e l
-- 2013-06-06T22:20:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/detroit-s-van-gogh-would-be-better-off-in-l-a-.html
When the news broke that if  Detroit 
goes into bankruptcy the city might cover some of its $15
billion debt by  selling  Detroit Institute of Arts treasures, the
reaction was predictable and the language harsh.  The DIA’s director, Graham Beal,  called  the idea
“sickening.” Michigan columnist Eric Baerren  denounced it  as a
sign of “Babbitt Nation, where the value of absolutely
everything can be summed up by the number of dollars people are
willing to trade for it.” Museum patron A. Alfred Taubman said
selling artworks “would be a crime.” Arts blogger Lee Rosenbaum
 termed it  “possible rape.” Political blogger Walter Russell Mead
 accused  Detroit’s corrupt politics of sparking a “modern-day
bonfire of the vanities.”  All right-thinking people, in short, agreed that parting
with  works  such as Van Gogh’s self-portrait, Bruegel’s “The
Wedding Dance,” Matisse’s “The Window” or Bellini’s “Madonna and
Child” would be an abomination. The collection is “not just an
asset of Detroit. It’s an asset of the country,” Taubman told
the  Detroit Free Press , voicing a frequently heard sentiment.  If I lived in Detroit, I’d want to keep these artworks,
too. And if I were a museum employee, I’d be particularly
demoralized. The DIA has in recent years shown itself a
 responsible financial steward , and last August won voter
approval in three surrounding counties for its first dedicated
property-tax funding.  Held Hostage  Parochial interests aside, however, great artworks
shouldn’t be held hostage by a relatively unpopular museum in a
declining region. The cause of art would be better served if
they were sold to institutions in growing cities where museum
attendance is more substantial and the visual arts are more
appreciated than they’ve ever been in Detroit. Art lovers should
stop equating the public good with the status quo.  On the fiscal front, Detroit has a much stronger claim on
its museum’s assets than the typical U.S. city government.
During the 1920s, when the local economy was booming and the
museum was still building its collection, the DIA relied on
annual appropriations from the city not just to fund operations,
as many museums do, but also to buy art. That marked “a
significant departure from the norm for major American art
museums,”  observed  art historian Jeffrey Abt in his detailed
2001 history “A Museum on the Verge.” City dollars paid for the
core of the museum’s collection, including the  Van Gogh ,
Bruegel, Matisse and Bellini.  So  suggestions  that the museum can’t sell major works
without risking violations of donor intent are disingenuous. The
issue might arise with obscure works or recent acquisitions, but
the records for the most valuable pieces are right on the
museum’s website. The city bought those works, it owns them, and
it should be able to sell them. (Under a 20-year contract signed
in 1998, the city owns the building and the collection, but a
nonprofit group called the Founders’ Society runs the
institute.)  In 1931, the man who built the collection, director William
Valentiner, argued for continued city funding by citing how much
the works’ value had appreciated. “The Brueghel painting we
purchased for $38,000 is valued at more than $150,000,” he said.
“If the city were to sell, piece by piece, the objects of art it
has purchased, they would realize more than five times the
amount paid for them.” Valentiner certainly wasn’t advocating
such sales, but his statement demonstrates that they weren’t
inconceivable.  Contrary to what casual observers assume, the DIA’s fiscal
troubles didn’t start with the decline of the  auto industry  in
the 1980s or white flight to the suburbs in the 1960s. The sad
truth is that the institute never enjoyed the voluntary local
support that built most U.S. art museums. “Within the first
decade of its establishment, the DIA (in comparison with most
other American museums) became unusually dependent on government
funding,” Abt wrote.  Lurching Along  During the 20th century, the museum’s support group failed
to build a significant endowment to subsidize operations.
Rather, in an extreme version of a common philanthropic
pathology, contributors gave money almost entirely for adding
artworks and buildings -- increasing operating costs without
providing money to cover them. As a result, the museum spent the
century lurching from financial crisis to financial crisis.  A sale to satisfy Detroit’s creditors would certainly be a
tragedy for the institution and its local constituents. But if
buyers were limited to other museums, possibly even to museums
in the U.S., the works wouldn’t disappear from public view. A
sale could be a huge boon for art lovers (and tourists) in
cities that had the bad luck to grow primarily in the second
half of the 20th century -- and that are still growing today.
The public trust is no less served by art in Atlanta, Phoenix or
 Seattle  than it is by art in Detroit.  Rather than an offense against art, a properly structured
sale would represent a public-spirited update of how the art
came to Detroit and other U.S. cities in the first place: as a
way of providing liquidity to Europeans in need of cash. “The
second world war has opened up an opportunity such as may never
come again,” the DIA’s director wrote unabashedly in 1948.
“Great private collections which have been held intact for a
hundred years or more are being broken up.” Detroit is like an
aristocratic estate forced to adjust to changing times. It can’t
marry an heiress, but it might find some lucratively
appreciative new homes for some of its heirlooms.  Consider the two U.S. metropolitan areas I happen to know
best:  Los Angeles  and Dallas- Fort Worth . Since 1970, each has
gained more residents -- 6 million for Los Angeles, 5 million
for Dallas-Fort Worth -- than the Detroit metro area has in
total population, essentially flat over the period at 4 million.
Both have cultures that, in different ways, put a high value on
the visual arts. ( Dallas  even features museum-quality art in its
leading  shopping mall .) Both include exceptionally well-endowed
museums, the Getty Center in Los Angeles and the  Kimbell Art
Museum  in Fort Worth, with collections that are limited less by
funding than by what’s available on the market. The Dallas
Museum of Art recently received, from a major collector and
contributor of contemporary art, a  $17 million endowment  to
acquire and support European art from before 1700.  Low Attendance  In fiscal 2012, which ended June 30, the Detroit museum
attracted just fewer than 489,000 visits -- barely 1,000 more
than it drew in 1928. With admission now free to residents of
the tri-county area, the numbers are up this year, to about
526,000 through April. (These numbers count visits, not
individuals; if you come five times, it counts as five visits.)
By contrast, last year the Getty Center attracted 1.2 million
visitors to a collection whose most impressive asset is the
building in which it is housed. (The attendance figure doesn’t
include visitors to the separate Getty Villa, which houses Greek
and Roman art.)  The museum’s director, Timothy Potts, is charged with
adding major works. Last month, the Getty  announced  the purchase
of “Rembrandt Laughing,” a self-portrait of the young painter
discovered in 2007, and a Canaletto view of the Grand Canal in
 Venice . But a young museum can only buy what’s for sale.  Letting the Getty add the Canaletto view of the Piazza San
Marco now in Detroit wouldn’t constitute a rape or a bonfire of
the vanities. Hanging Van Gogh’s self-portrait alongside his
“Irises” at the Getty or Bellini’s Madonna near his “Christ
Blessing” at the Kimbell would not betray the public trust. It
would enhance it.  ( Virginia Postrel  is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Virginia Postrel at  vp@dynamist.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 