-- Devon Plans to Form Master-Limited Partnership for Midstream
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2013-06-06T14:34:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/devon-plans-to-form-master-limited-partnership-for-midstream-1-.html
Devon Energy Corp. (DVN) , the second-worst
performer in the past year among peer oil and natural gas
producers, plans to form a master-limited partnership that will
initially own a minority stake in its U.S. midstream business.  Devon expects to use the proceeds from the sale of
partnership units to fund continuing operations, the Oklahoma
City-based company said in a statement today. The partnership,
known as an MLP, plans to file a registration statement with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in the third quarter.  The company would follow producers such as  Anadarko
Petroleum Corp. (APC)  in selling holdings such as plants and pipelines
for cash while keeping operational control. U.S. partnerships
don’t pay corporate income tax and have more cash available to
pay holders of units, which are like shares.  Devon’s pipelines and processing plants will generate about
$475 million in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization this year,  Scott Hanold , an analyst with RBC
Capital Markets LLC, wrote in a note to clients today. Future
sales may include Canadian assets, Hanold said.  Initial proceeds from an MLP may be $300 million to $500
million, Chief Financial Officer Jeff Agosta said on a
conference call in February. Devon’s U.S. midstream holdings
include assets in Texas, Oklahoma and Wyoming.  Devon fell 1.7 percent to $55.70 at 10:32 a.m. in  New York .  Devon is the second-worst performer in the past year on the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Oil & Gas Exploration & Production Index,
beating only  Newfield Exploration Co. (NFX)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  