-- Yen Advances as Aso Says Japan Won’t Intervene; Aussie Declines
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-06-07T11:13:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/dollar-rebounds-versus-yen-as-volatility-climbs-before-jobs-data.html
The yen advanced, extending its
biggest weekly gain versus the dollar in five years, after
Japanese Finance Minister Taro Aso said he had no immediate
intention to weaken the currency.  Japan ’s currency climbed to the strongest in more than two
months versus the greenback as the nation’s stocks fell and a
gauge of volatility jumped to the most since 2011. The dollar
headed for a weekly drop versus the euro before U.S. jobs data.
 Australia ’s dollar declined before Chinese data tomorrow that
economists said will show growth in imports slowed, dimming the
demand outlook for commodities.  “The comments from Abe weren’t satisfactory for the
market,” said  Roberto Mialich , a senior currency strategist at
 UniCredit SpA (UCG)  in Milan. “That’s reinforcing the move higher in
the yen. All markets have been heavily short the yen and so
people have been caught wrong-footed which is forcing heavy
buying. As long as the stock market remains under pressure the
yen can remain firm.” A short position is a bet an asset will
decline.  The yen advanced 1.6 percent to 95.46 per dollar at 7:05
a.m.  New York  time, set for a 5.1 percent advance this week, the
biggest jump since October 2008. Japan’s currency appreciated
1.5 percent to 126.56 per euro after reaching 126.28, the
strongest since April 16. The dollar was little changed at
$1.3253 per euro and headed for a 2 percent decline this week.  Postwar Record  The yen touched 95.29 per dollar today, the strongest since
April 4. Japan hasn’t sold its currency to weaken it since 2011,
when it reached a postwar record of 75.35. A stronger currency
hurts the overseas competitiveness of domestic companies.  “We are carefully watching but we don’t have any immediate
intention of taking any action, such as intervention,” Aso told
reporters in  Tokyo .  The Bank of Japan’s stimulus plan announced in April
involves monthly purchases of more than 7 trillion yen in
Japanese  government bonds . The yen slumped more than 20 percent
against the dollar from the middle of November through May amid
expectations of expanded monetary and fiscal stimulus under
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.  Japan’s shares tumbled and the yen rallied yesterday after
Abe said a legislative campaign to loosen rules on businesses,
the “third arrow” of his revival plan, won’t begin for months.  GPIF Announcement  The Government Pension Investment Fund said today it will
cut its allocation to Japanese bonds to 60 percent from 67
percent. Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare said the
GPIF, the world’s biggest manager of retirement savings, will
increase its allocation of domestic stocks to 12 percent from 11
percent, according to a statement from the health ministry.  The fund will increase its allocation of foreign stocks to
12 percent from 9 percent and for foreign bonds to 11 percent
from 8 percent.  Futures traders increased bets the yen will weaken against
the dollar to the most since July 2007. The difference in the
number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other large speculators on a
decline in Japan’s currency compared with those on a gain, known
as net  shorts , was 99,769 contracts on May 28, versus 95,186 a
week earlier, figures from the Washington-based Commodity
Futures Trading Commission show.  “We’re seeing large unwinding of carry trades and violent
moves in dollar-yen,” said Kikuko Takeda, a senior analyst at
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  London . “There’s been both
strong and weak U.S. data so it’s hard to take a one-sided view
of the  U.S. economy  or Fed policy.” A carry trade involves
borrowing in low-interest-rate currencies to buy higher-yielding
assets.  Deutsche Bank AG’s G10 FX Carry Basket index fell 2.8
percent this week, erasing this year’s advance.  Yen Surge  The yen has surged 4.7 percent in the past month, the most
among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro advanced 2.2 percent and
the dollar climbed 0.7 percent.  The U.S. Labor Department will say today the economy added
163,000 jobs in May, while the jobless rate held at 7.5 percent,
according to median forecasts in Bloomberg News surveys of
economists.  Fed policy makers have said they’ll continue their $85
billion-a-month pace of asset purchases until the labor outlook
improves “substantially.”  Positive Surprise  “A positive surprise on jobs, as we look for, would be
dollar positive in fueling expectations for a deceleration in
Fed easing,” Christin Tuxen, a senior analyst at  Danske Bank
A/S (DANSKE)  in Copenhagen wrote in a note to clients. “An upbeat
payrolls number should have the potential to reverse part of
yesterday’s dollar slide.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  Group of Seven Volatility Index ,
based on currency option premiums, rose to 10.62 percent, the
highest level since June 2012. One-month implied volatility on
the yen versus the dollar surged to 16.08 percent, the most
since March 2011.  Australia’s dollar fell versus all but one of its 16 major
peers.  China ’s  imports  increased 6.6 percent in May compared with
a year earlier, according to a survey of economists. Shipments
from abroad swelled 16.8 percent in April.  The Aussie slid 1 percent to 95.03 U.S. cents after falling
to 94.35 yesterday, the weakest since Oct. 4, 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at   pdobson2@bloomberg.net . 