-- Draghi’s Introductory Remarks at ECB Press Conference: Text
-- B y
-- 2013-06-06T12:46:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/draghi-s-introductory-remarks-at-ecb-press-conference-text.html
The following is a reformatted
version of the introductory remarks of European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  at a press conference in  Frankfurt  today.  Policy makers left the main refinancing rate at 0.5 percent
after reducing it by a quarter point last month.  Mario Draghi, President of the ECB,
Vitor Constancio, Vice-President of the ECB,
Frankfurt am Main, 6 June 2013  Ladies and gentlemen, the Vice-President and I are very pleased
to welcome you to our press conference. We will now report on
the outcome of today’s meeting of the Governing Council, which
was also attended by the President of the Eurogroup, Finance
Minister Dijsselbloem.  Based on our regular economic and monetary analyses, we decided
to keep the key ECB interest rates unchanged. Incoming
information has confirmed our assessment which led to the cut in
 interest rates  in early May. The underlying price pressure in
the euro area is expected to remain subdued over the medium
term. In keeping with this picture, monetary and, in particular,
credit dynamics remain subdued. Medium-term inflation
expectations for the euro area continue to be firmly anchored in
line with our aim of maintaining inflation rates below, but
close to, 2%. At the same time, recent economic sentiment survey
data have shown some improvement from low levels. The
accommodative stance of our monetary policy, together with the
significant improvements in financial markets since mid-2012,
should contribute to support prospects for an economic recovery
later in the year. Against this overall background, our monetary
policy stance will remain accommodative for as long as
necessary. In the period ahead, we will monitor very closely all
incoming information on economic and monetary developments and
assess any impact on the outlook for  price stability .  Let me now explain our assessment in greater detail, starting
with the economic analysis. Real GDP contracted by 0.2% in the
first quarter of 2013, following a decline of 0.6% in the fourth
quarter of 2012. Output has thus declined for six consecutive
quarters, with labour market conditions remaining weak. Recent
developments in economic sentiment survey data have shown some
improvement from low levels. Looking ahead to later in the year
and to 2014, euro area export growth should benefit from a
recovery in global demand, while domestic demand should be
supported by the accommodative stance of our monetary policy and
by the recent real income gains due to lower  oil prices  and
generally lower inflation. Furthermore, the significant
improvements in financial markets seen since last summer should
work their way through to the real economy, as should the
progress made in fiscal consolidation. At the same time, the
remaining necessary balance sheet adjustments in the public and
private sectors will continue to weigh on economic activity.  Overall, euro area economic activity should stabilise and
recover in the course of the year, albeit at a subdued pace.
This assessment is also reflected in the June 2013 Eurosystem
staff macroeconomic projections for the euro area, which foresee
annual real GDP declining by 0.6% in 2013 and increasing by 1.1%
in 2014. Compared with the March 2013 ECB staff macroeconomic
projections, the projection for 2013 has been revised marginally
downwards, largely reflecting the incorporation of the latest
GDP data releases. For 2014 there has been a marginal upward
revision.  The Governing Council continues to see downside risks
surrounding the economic outlook for the euro area. They include
the possibility of weaker than expected domestic and global
demand and slow or insufficient implementation of structural
reforms in euro area countries.  According to Eurostat’s flash estimate, euro area annual HICP
inflation was 1.4% in May 2013, up from 1.2% in April. This
increase was, in particular, accounted for by a rebound in
services prices related to the unwinding of the Easter effect
and an increase in food prices. More generally, as stated last
month, annual inflation rates are expected to be subject to some
volatility throughout the year due particularly to base effects
relating to energy and food price developments twelve months
earlier. Looking through this volatility, the underlying price
pressure over the medium term is expected to remain subdued,
reflecting low capacity utilisation and a modest pace of
economic recovery. Over the medium term, inflation expectations
remain firmly anchored in line with price stability.  This assessment is also reflected in the June 2013 Eurosystem
staff macroeconomic projections for the euro area, which foresee
annual HICP inflation at 1.4 % and 1.3 % in 2013 and 2014,
respectively. In comparison with the March 2013 ECB staff
macroeconomic projections, the projection for inflation for 2013
has been revised downwards, mainly reflecting the fall in oil
prices, while the projection for 2014 remains unchanged.
In the Governing Council’s assessment, risks to the outlook for
price developments are broadly balanced over the medium term,
with upside risks relating to stronger than expected increases
in administered prices and indirect taxes, as well as higher
commodity prices, and downside risks stemming from weaker
economic activity.  Turning to the monetary analysis, recent data confirm that the
underlying pace of monetary and, in particular, credit expansion
continues to be subdued. Annual growth in broad money, M3,
increased in April to 3.2%, from 2.6% in March, mainly due to a
base effect and special factors. The same factors have impacted
on the annual growth rate of the narrow monetary aggregate, M1,
which increased from 7.1% in March to 8.7% in April.  The growth of loans to the private sector continued to be weak.
The annual growth rates of loans to households (adjusted for
loan sales and securitisation) remained at 0.3% in April,
broadly unchanged since the turn of the year. The annual
negative growth of loans to non-financial corporations (adjusted
for loan sales and securitisation) increased from -1.3% in March
to -1.9% in April. This development stemmed, in particular, from
net redemptions in short-term loans, which could reflect reduced
demand for working capital against the background of weak order
books in early spring. More generally, weak loan dynamics
continue to reflect primarily the current stage of the business
cycle, heightened credit risk and the ongoing adjustment of
financial and non-financial sector balance sheets.  In order to ensure adequate transmission of monetary policy to
the financing conditions in euro area countries, it is essential
that the fragmentation of euro area credit markets continues to
decline further and that the resilience of banks is strengthened
where needed. Progress has been made since last summer in
improving the funding situation of banks, in strengthening the
domestic deposit base in stressed countries and in reducing
reliance on the Eurosystem as reflected in repayments of the
three-year LTROs. Further decisive steps for establishing a
banking union will help to accomplish this objective. In
particular, the Governing Council emphasises that the future
Single Supervisory Mechanism and a Single Resolution Mechanism
are crucial elements for moving towards re-integrating the
banking system and therefore require swift implementation.  To sum up, the economic analysis indicates that price
developments should remain in line with price stability over the
medium term. A cross-check with the signals from the monetary
analysis confirms this picture.  With regard to fiscal consolidation and structural reforms, the
Governing Council welcomes the progress made and encourages
governments to continue with determined efforts. It is essential
that euro area countries do not unravel their efforts to reduce
government budget deficits. The new European governance
framework for fiscal and economic policies should be applied in
a steadfast manner. In this respect, the Governing Council
considers it very important that decisions by the European
Council to extend the time frame for the correction of excessive
fiscal deficits should remain reserved for exceptional
circumstances. At the same time, it is necessary to continue,
where needed, to take legislative action or otherwise promptly
implement structural reforms. Structural reforms should, in
particular, target competitiveness and adjustment capacities in
labour and product markets, thereby helping to generate
employment opportunities in an environment of unacceptably high
unemployment levels, especially among young workers, prevailing
in several countries. Combined action on the fiscal and
structural front should mutually reinforce fiscal sustainability
and economic growth potential and thereby foster sustainable  job
creation .  We are now at your disposal for questions. 