-- Draghi Sees Economy Recovering as ECB Rates Left on Hold
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-06-06T14:56:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/draghi-sees-economy-recovering-this-year-as-rates-left-on-hold.html
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said the euro-area economy will return to growth by the
end of the year, handing policy makers a reason to hold back
fresh stimulus.  “Euro-area economic activity should stabilize and recover
in the course of the year, albeit at a subdued pace,” Draghi
told reporters in  Frankfurt  today. “We will monitor very
closely all incoming developments and we stand ready to act.”  Draghi spoke after the ECB’s Governing Council left its
 main refinancing rate  at 0.5 percent after reducing it by a
quarter point last month. The decision was predicted by 57 of
the 59 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey . The euro climbed
to a four-week high against the dollar and  Germany ’s two-year
note yield rose to the highest level since February.  An improvement in sentiment is giving Draghi time to
consider a menu of further measures that the ECB may deploy to
aid the 17-nation economy, now in its longest recession since
the euro began trading in 1999. Among the options he cited:
Cutting the so-called deposit rate into negative territory,
lending more money to banks, easing collateral rules, reviving
the market for asset-backed securities and providing investors
with greater guidance on how long borrowing costs will stay low.  “We have a range of different instruments,” said Draghi.
Economic data since the ECB’s meeting last month “were not
enough to grant immediate action,” he said.  Deposit Rate  The ECB held its deposit rate at zero and its marginal
lending rate at 1 percent. Draghi said the consensus of
officials had been not to act, given the recent data.  The euro rose as high as $1.3175 from $1.3115 before Draghi
started speaking. The yield on Germany’s two-year government
bond rose about 4 basis points to 0.138 percent.  “There is no smoking gun here for a move any time soon,”
 Harvinder Sian , a senior fixed income strategist at  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  in London, said in a note to clients.
“Data flow is the most important signal for the ECB and the
markets.”  As the ECB revamped its economic outlook, Draghi called
inflation risks “broadly balanced” and noted “downside
risks” for growth.  The bank cut its forecast for the euro area’s economy to
show contraction of 0.6 percent this year from an estimate of
minus 0.5 percent made in March. Officials raised their
projection for next year to 1.1 percent from 1 percent. The ECB
cut its 2013 inflation forecast to 1.4 percent from 1.6 percent.
The 2014 estimate was unchanged at 1.3 percent.  Brightening Outlook  Economic indicators have improved since the first quarter.
A gauge of euro-area manufacturing output rose more than
initially estimated in May, economic sentiment as measured by
the European Commission and Sentix investor confidence both rose
after a slump in April, while consumer morale improved for a
sixth month.  Elsewhere, the  Bank of England  today kept its bond-purchase
target at 375 billion pounds ($580 billion) and maintained its
key rate at 0.5 percent.  Draghi described the untapped Outright Monetary
Transactions bond-buying program as “the most successful
monetary policy measure” of recent times, crediting it with
calming financial markets and defending it ahead of a review by
Germany’s constitutional court.  Split ‘Dramatization’  He played down differences within the ECB’s 23-member
council, saying reports of splits over the direction of policy
were a “dramatization.”  “You have different views in all central banks,” he said.
“In a period of uncertainty, there are obviously a variety of
opinions.”  While Draghi has previously said the ECB is studying ways
to breathe life into the ABS market as a way of boosting the
economy, he said today such a plan was not something for the
short-term.  On the topic of bank supervision, Draghi said the ECB wants
governments to make an explicit commitment to backstop banks. He
said it’s essential to strengthen the resilience of the region’s
lenders and repeated that his staff are currently reviewing the
health of balance sheets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in  London  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  