-- Draghi Disappoints as Firepower Becomes Fig Leaf
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-06-07T09:23:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/draghi-disappoints-as-firepower-becomes-fig-leaf.html
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi isn’t racing to the rescue of Europe’s banks or economy
this time.  Almost a year since his promise to do “whatever it takes”
to protect the euro soothed investors, and a month since cutting
interest rates, Draghi signalled yesterday that governments, not
the ECB, should do more to fight recession and boost credit to
businesses in cash-strapped countries such as Spain.  As he predicted a resumption of growth by the end of the
year, Draghi’s maintenance of the status quo sent bonds falling
and the euro rising as investors questioned the ECB’s crisis-fighting resolve, which previously reinforced its president’s
“Super Mario” nickname. Yields on Spanish and Italian 10-year
bonds jumped yesterday to the most in six weeks, while  German
two-year borrowing costs  climbed to the highest since February.
Markets rebounded today with rates falling across the region.  “Investors see ECB talk for what it is, a fig leaf,” said
 Ciaran O’Hagan , head of European rates strategy at Societe
Generale SA in Paris. “Draghi mentioned many possible measures,
only to conclude that they are too hard to introduce.”  If the economy improves in the second half of the year, the
ECB may refrain from further action as “the easy instruments
have all been used,” Austrian central bank governor Ewald Nowotny said today.  Recession Risks  Draghi said the central bank currently sees no reason for
“immediate action” after listing potential measures, including
charging banks for leaving money on deposit with it and lending
institutions cash over the long term.  A consensus of the ECB’s 23-member Governing Council
yesterday left its  key rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent even
as data this week confirmed the longest recession since the euro
began trading in 1999. The bank cut its forecasts for this year
to show the economy contracting 0.6 percent and inflation
accelerating by 1.4 percent.  The Bundesbank today cut its growth outlook for 2013, after
a disappointing first quarter. Europe’s largest economy will
likely expand by 0.3 percent this year, down from a forecast in
December of 0.4 percent, the Frankfurt-based central bank said.  That backdrop is enough to keep the ECB on the sidelines,
said  Nick Kounis , head of macro research at ABN Amro Bank NV in
Amsterdam. “Financial markets interpreted Draghi as being
relatively hawkish,” Kounis said. “Still, the ECB clearly has
an easing bias in place.”  Collateral Framework  Having previously fanned speculation that the ECB would
help revive the asset-backed securities market and tweak its
collateral framework to ease banks’ access to cash, Draghi said
yesterday that wasn’t a plan for the short term. He instead left
the onus on governments to act to recapitalize lenders before
any central bank aid would be offered.  When an ECB-led round of asset reviews and stress tests are
completed next year, governments need to make “an explicit
commitment” to provide a backstop in the event of a “capital
shortfall,” he said.  While Europe’s largest banks have been rebuilding their
capital buffers, profitability remains weak and lenders are
still vulnerable to economic downturns, the ECB’s Financial
Stability Report said last week. Median core Tier 1 capital
reached 11.1 percent in the first quarter of this year, up from
9.6 percent at the end of 2011, the ECB said.  The ratio of bank loans not being paid back will probably
increase until mid-2014 because of the recession, Giovanni Sabatini, head of  Italy ’s banking association, said on May 31.
Lending to euro-area private-sector companies and households has
fallen in annual terms every month for the past year.  Bond Buying  To  Marc Ostwald , a strategist at Monument Securities Ltd.
in  London , the lack of fresh stimulus reflected Draghi’s
inability to rally colleagues as he once did amid concern the
ECB’s previous largesse has led politicians not to take their
own measures.  Draghi, who took office in November 2011, reprised his
“Super Mario” moniker in financial markets with his as-yet-untapped Outright Monetary Transactions program, a pledge to buy
government bonds to cap yields. He has also trimmed interest
rates by a cumulative 1 percentage point since taking office,
and extended cheap loans to banks.  Ahead of a review by  Germany ’s constitutional court, Draghi
called the bond-buying OMT the “most successful monetary policy
measure” of recent times and said the ECB was prepared to use
it if a country sought it and satisfied its economic-reform
requirements. He also said the bank is technically ready for
negative interest rates, while noting the move risks unintended
consequences.  Opinions Differ  The OMT remains unpopular with Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann, while Nowotny is among those who have distanced 
themselves from negative deposit rates.  “Draghi’s activism is no longer supported by many members
of the council,” Ostwald said. “His attempts to jawbone
financial markets into a sense of security highlight the lack of
support from his fellow ECB council members.”  Draghi rejected speculation of splits within the council as
a “dramatization,” and said differences were common among
policy makers. He praised the ECB’s “conservatism” at a time
when the Federal Reserve is considering slowing bond buying and
the Bank of  Japan  is ramping up its quantitative easing.  “The ECB is clearly trying to manage down expectations of
it playing a leading role in dealing with financial
fragmentation,” said Richard Barwell, senior European economist
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London. “The parlous
state of the peripheral banks cannot be solved by the ECB, and
it can only play a peripheral role in solving the structural
financial fragmentation problem.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net 
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  