-- DreamWorks’s Katzenberg Says Chinese Audiences Love Animation
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-06T11:20:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/dreamworks-s-katzenberg-says-chinese-audiences-love-animation.html
Jeffrey Katzenberg , chief executive
officer of  DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) , comments on Chinese
demand for animated films and censorship of movies. He spoke in
an interview today in the western Chinese city of  Chengdu , where
he’s attending the Fortune Global Forum.  On Chinese demand for animated films:  “The Croods” movie has “done incredibly well here in
 China .”  “They love animation. The stories are very affirmative,
the movies always embrace very positive themes, they celebrate
the best of humanity, they’re optimistic films, their characters
are hopeful characters, and I think those are things that the
audience here responds very, very well to. I think they love
happy endings.”  “Animation has a common denominator that transcends
languages, cultures, countries, everything.”  “We don’t make our movies in which we target them at
individual audiences, individual markets. They’re universal
stories made with universal values and themes that transcend all
of those things. Even though the movies we’re making today,
they’re made in Hollywood, 65 percent of their box office is
done outside of  North America . So two-thirds of our businesses
is in the rest of the world.”  On Chinese censorship of movies:  “For us, we tell the stories that we like to tell.”  “The stories that we tell and the way in which we tell
them is very appealing to this market, so again, your approach
to thinking about it is not how we go about it. We’ve been
bringing movies here for more than a dozen years, we’ve never
been asked to change a single frame of a single film.”  “I know people often are concerned about censorship, I’m
sure for some movies and some films and some filmmakers, it’s an
issue. It’s never been one for us. We don’t make movies that
seem to have any issues for the censors.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  