-- Drooling Cat-Bond Investors Overlook Risk, Montross Says
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2013-06-06T18:08:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/drooling-cat-bond-investors-overlook-risk-montross-says.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s Franklin “Tad” Montross said pension funds that increased bets on
catastrophe bonds to improve investment returns may flee the
market after a major natural disaster.  Issuance of the securities has been increasing as investors
seek assets that are uncorrelated with most  capital markets  and
offer higher returns than corporate debt.  Cat bonds  pay hundreds
of basis points more than benchmark yields, such as the London
interbank offered rate, to investors who risk losing all their
principal to an insurance company if a costly enough natural
disaster strikes.  “With  interest rates  being where they are, I don’t think
it’s a surprise that a cat bond with a yield of 350 or 500 basis
points over Libor looks attractive,” Montross, chief executive
officer of Berkshire’s General Re unit, said today at a
conference in New York. “People are drooling for those.”  Berkshire, led by billionaire Chairman and CEO  Warren Buffett , sells contracts to insurers to help shoulder costs from
the largest natural disasters and competes against cat bond
issuers. Montross has criticized  Wall Street  for pumping capital
into his industry that may be more fickle than the  balance
sheets  that reinsurance companies have built. Investors who lose
their principal in a catastrophe may have an “emotional
reaction” and head for the exits, he said today.  “What happens after the $150 billion earthquake, when
 Nevada  is basically coastline to the Pacific?” Montross asked
the audience at the conference, hosted by  Standard & Poor’s .
“This whole issue that it’s a non-correlated asset class, which
makes it so attractive as people look at their risk-return
profiles, is one that really needs to be thought through very,
very carefully.”  Sales Accelerating  About $44 billion of dollar-denominated cat bonds have been
issued since 1996, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales of the securities have been accelerating, with $4.17
billion so far this year, exceeding the $3.87 billion the same
period in 2012.  Cat bonds issued this year with an average maturity of 3.3
years pay about 5.56 percentage points more than short-term
lending rates, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares
with an average yield of about 5 percent for similar-maturity
corporate bonds ranked either B or BB, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data.  Cat bonds have climbed about  4.1 percent  in the last year,
according to the Swiss Re Cat Bond Price Return Index. The
measure tracks dollar debt sold by insurers and reinsurers.  Aura of Credibility  The influx of capital to the industry pressured reinsurance
rates ahead of June 1 renewals, as the industry priced risk
before the  Atlantic hurricane season , Guy Carpenter & Co., the
reinsurance brokerage of  Marsh & McLennan Cos. (MMC)  said this week.
About $10 billion of new capital has entered the market through
cat bonds and other investment structures in the last 18 months,
according to the broker’s report.  The new sources of funds are relying too heavily on
catastrophe models in making their decisions about prices,
Montross said. Reinsurers and insurers use data and simulations
from third-party companies to help asses risk.  The models have “lent an aura of credibility” to pricing,
Montross said. “Anyone who’s in the industry knows that the
models are always wrong. Directionally, they’re helpful, but we
are trying to price a risk today that we do not know the cost
of.”  Buffett has praised his company’s insurance operations
which span Gen Re to auto policies underwritten by Geico.
Collectively, the businesses “ shot the lights out  last year”
and have made an underwriting profit for 10 straight years
through 2012, he said in a March letter to shareholders of his
Omaha, Nebraska-based company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  