-- East Europe FDI to Plummet as Economies Struggle, Institute Says
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r
-- 2013-06-06T15:10:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/east-europe-fdi-to-plummet-as-economies-struggle-institute-says.html
Foreign direct investment in eastern
 Europe  will plummet 22 percent this year because of recessions
and sluggish growth across the continent, according to the
 Vienna Institute for International Economic Studies .  FDI will fall to 81.9 billion euros ($107.4 billion) after
increasing 35 percent to 105.1 billion euros in 2012, the
institute, also known as WIIW, said today in an e-mailed report.
The projection is backed by first-quarter figures, which show
only three of 13 countries with data available recording higher
inflows from a year earlier, it said.  “Investors are still coming, but not to the extent that
one could expect them to revive the economy,” Gabor Hunya, a
researcher at the institute, told a news conference in the
Austrian capital. Exports to western Europe and internal demand
are stagnating in most of eastern Europe’s 22 countries, curbing
investor interest in the region, he said.  Economies in Europe’s east are suffering because of trade
and banking ties to their western neighbors, which are grappling
with a debt crisis that’s brought a record-long recession in the
euro area. Central banks from  Poland  to  Hungary  are lowering
 interest rates  to kickstart economic expansion.  FDI in Poland, the European Union’s biggest eastern
economy, will grow to 8 billion euros after a 40 percent decline
to 7.3 billion euros in 2012, while privatization efforts in
Slovenia, which is battling to avoid a bailout, may trigger an
increase to 700 million euros from 113 million euros, the WIIW
said.  Too Reliant  While FDI fell in most of eastern Europe in 2012, it
increased 180 percent in Hungary and 394 percent in the Czech
Republic, largely because of transactions intended to save
taxes, according to the institute. Investment in the Czech
Republic and Hungary, which was inflated by such transactions
last year, should decline significantly in 2013, it said.  The institute said financial flows reported as FDI aren’t
necessarily fixed investments and may include “round-tripping
of domestic capital, capital in transit from one subsidiary to
another and other tax-optimizing flows.”  Reliance on foreign investment “is still very high,”
according to Hunya. “Above all in countries that saw big
inflows” in the last decade, such as Slovakia, Hungary, the
 Czech Republic ,  Romania  and  Bulgaria , he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  