-- LeBron James’s Weakness Becomes Strength in Finals Against Spurs
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-06-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/lebron-james-s-weakness-becomes-strength-in-finals-against-spurs.html
LeBron James blamed himself when his
first trip to the National Basketball Association Finals ended
without a championship.  “I’ve got a lot of things to work on to get better,”
James, the 2007 playoff leader in points, steals and assists,
said after his Cleveland Cavaliers were swept 4-0 by the San
Antonio Spurs. “It starts with me first.”  Tonight, James again faces the Spurs in the NBA Finals,
this year as a four-time league Most Valuable Player and a
member of the Miami Heat, who are favored by oddsmakers to win
their second straight title.  San Antonio center Tim Duncan told James at the conclusion
of the 2007 series that “the league is going to be yours
soon.” The prediction came true through an improvement in
James’s supporting cast and his own efforts to get better.  James’s weakness six years ago, the jump shot, is now his
strength, according to data compiled by Bloomberg Sports. Having
increased his field-goal percentage every season since, to 56.5
percent from 47.6 percent, James has become one of the league’s
most accurate outside shooters. He made 46 percent of his
jumpers from 16-23 feet this season, better than heralded
shooters Stephen Curry (44 percent), J.J. Reddick (45 percent)
and Kevin Durant (43 percent). James also shot a career-best
40.6 percent from 3-point range, compared with 31.9 percent in
2006-07.  A forward, James is the only non-point guard in the top 20
in assists per game this postseason, with a higher average than
guards such as Curry and Jeremy Lin. James’s 20.8 defensive
rebounding percentage, an estimate of the percentage of
available defensive rebounds a player grabbed while he was on
the floor, was higher this season than interior players such as
Marc Gasol of the Memphis Grizzlies, or Roy Hibbert and David West of the Indiana Pacers.  Winning Edge  With improved shooting, rebounding and assists came more
wins. In examining advanced statistics, James’s win share per 48
minutes, an estimate of how much a player contributes to a
victory, was 0.3220, the highest since Kareem Abdul-Jabbar
(0.3225), the NBA’s all-time scoring leader, in 1972-73. The
league average is about 0.1.  “I’m 20, 40, 50 times better than I was in the ’07
finals,” James said after the Heat beat the Pacers in Game 7 to
win the Eastern Conference title on June 3.  The Heat, with fellow All-Stars Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh
struggling at times in the postseason, are going for their third
championship since 2006, and the club’s second since James
joined Miami as a free agent in 2010. The Spurs are seeking
their fifth title since 1999, Duncan’s second year in the
league.  Great Players  Duncan, 37, and James, 28,  “are going to go down as two
of the greatest to ever play,” according to former NBA coach
Jeff Van Gundy.  “Duncan’s longevity has been incredible,” Van Gundy, an
analyst for  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC, which will broadcast the
finals, said on a conference call. “His ability to come in as a
power forward and then evolve into this center is a testament to
just his willingness to adapt.”  Guards Tony Parker and Manu Ginobili both have been Spurs
since the franchise’s 2003 title, joining Duncan on a team known
for unselfishness. San Antonio swept the Los Angeles Lakers,
topped the Golden State Warriors in six games and then swept the
Grizzlies to win the West on May 27. It marked the 14th time a
team entered the NBA Finals coming off a 4-0 sweep.  It’s the sixth time that an NBA Finals will be held between
one team that swept its conference-final series and another that
needed seven games to advance. The most recent was 2001, when
the Lakers swept the Spurs in the West and the Philadelphia
76ers needed seven games to get past the Milwaukee Bucks in the
East. The Lakers won the championship, four games to one.  Sweep Winners  Teams coming off 4-0 conference-final sweeps are 4-2
against those who needed seven games to reach the title round.
The last club to play a seven-game conference final and then top
an opponent coming off a sweep was the Chicago Bulls in 1998.
Michael Jordan’s Bulls won a seven-game series against the
Pacers in the East and then took the title over the Utah Jazz,
who had swept the Lakers in the West.  Miami is a 5 1/2-point favorite in Game 1 at
AmericanAirlines Arena in Miami, according to Las Vegas
oddsmakers, with a 68 percent chance to repeat as NBA champions
based on betting lines, according to Las Vegas-based
handicapping information website  Pregame.com .  James is a decisive favorite to repeat as NBA Finals MVP,
with 4-9 odds at online gambling website  Bovada.com . Wade, the
2006 finals MVP, is the second favorite with 8-1 odds, meaning a
successful $100 wager on Wade to take the honor would net $800.  It’s the first trip to Miami this season for Duncan, Parker
and Ginobili, who were sent home by coach Gregg Popovich prior
to the team’s Nov. 29 game at the Heat, San Antonio’s fourth
road contest in five nights. The decision led to a $250,000 fine
against the Spurs for resting players “in a manner contrary to
the best interests of the NBA.” In what Popovich later hinted
was gamesmanship, Heat coach  Erik Spoelstra  sat James and Wade
for Miami’s March 31 game in San Antonio, citing injuries. The
Heat won both regular-season contests.  Full Strength  So tonight marks the first game this season between the
teams’ complete lineups, and one in which San Antonio has had 10
days to prepare for basketball’s most dominant player. They may
need every second of preparation, according to the man whose
defense against the then-22-year-old James in the 2007 finals
helped the Spurs coast to a title.  Bruce Bowen, now an ESPN analyst after a 13-year NBA
career, said in a phone interview yesterday that James’s
experience, discipline and supporting cast in Miami “allowed
him to focus on his craft and get better.”  “You’ve got to go through something before you realize
what you need to work on,” Bowen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  