-- EDF Doesn’t Have U.K. ‘Over a Barrel’ on Nuclear, Minister Says
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-06-06T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/edf-doesn-t-have-u-k-over-a-barrel-on-nuclear-minister-says.html
Electricite de France SA (EDF)  doesn’t have
Britain “over a barrel” in a deal to build the country’s first
new nuclear plant in almost two decades, a minister said.  “We would like to do the deal with EDF but we are not
going to do it at any price,” Energy Minister  Michael Fallon 
said in an interview in “The House” magazine, which is
distributed to lawmakers. “It’s a very complex negotiation and
we are inching closer but we are not quite there yet.”  The U.K. government is involved in protracted negotiations
over a deal that would guarantee how much the French utility
earns for power from two reactors planned at Hinkley Point C in
southern  England . Both sides have said they’re prepared to let
talks fail if they can’t agree a price. EDF in April reduced
staff at the site in Somerset to curb costs.  “We are not over a barrel,” Fallon said.  “We have
Hitachi Ltd. ready to come in, they are next in line. So we are
not wholly dependent on Hinkley.”  The Japanese manufacturer is planning to build as many as
six new nuclear reactors at two sites through the Horizon
Nuclear Power venture it agreed to buy in October. Britain is
seeking to spur new reactors as part of a 110 billion-pound
($172 billion) investment plan to replace aging power plants and
upgrade grids.  There are still “five or six issues” dividing EDF and the
government apart from the level the so-called strike price is
set at, Fallon said in the interview. EDF said in a statement
yesterday it had reached labor-relations agreements with trade
unions and a major contractor for Hinkley Point C, and that both
sides saw the power-price contract talks as ”positive”.  On U.K. shale-gas, Fallon said financial incentives to
start hydraulic fracturing will take effect in April after being
“firmed up” in the summer. Fallon said the British Geological
Survey report on shale gas estimates in the Bowland shales from
Lancashire across to Yorkshire will be published in a few weeks.  He said the government will run an auction for power
generators to provide electricity at times of peak demand in the
second half of next year once the so-called capacity market plan
gets European approval, with plants ready to deliver in 2018.
The government will publish draft strike prices guaranteeing the
payments renewable power generators will receive in July, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  