-- Egypt Seen Asking France for Delayed Payment for Grain Imports
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-06-06T11:03:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/egypt-seen-asking-france-for-delayed-payment-for-grain-imports.html
Egypt , the world’s biggest importer
of wheat, asked  France  for permission to delay paying for grain
purchases for nine to 12 months after loading, according to a
group representing French cereal growers.  Egypt also is seeking free storage in France for its
imports for as long as six months and aid in building silos at
home, the Paris-based Association Generale des Producteurs de
Ble said in a  report  on its website, without saying where it got
the information.  Egypt uses the wheat to make subsidized bread that helps
feed the Arab world’s largest populace. Twenty-five percent of
Egyptians lived below the poverty line in 2011, according to
state figures. The nation is mired in a polarizing battle
between backers and opponents of Islamist President Mohamed
Mursi, more than two years after  Hosni Mubarak  was ousted.  “Two years of political turmoil and economic crisis have
diminished Egypt’s financial resources, making food and energy
imports difficult,” the AGPB said.  The foreign-trade department of France’s finance ministry
referred inquiries to Franc Secula, the head of its Cairo
economic service, who didn’t immediately reply to e-mailed
questions. Egypt is the world’s biggest wheat buyer.  Egypt has bought 750,756 metric tons of wheat from France
in the current 2012-13 season. Shipments of French wheat to the
country in the past decade ranged from as much as 2.55 million
tons in 2002-03 to as little as 125,999 tons in 2007-08, trade
figures show.  France’s finance ministry and grain exporters in the
European country are considering a response to Egypt’s request,
according to the AGPB.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  