-- Emerging-Market Stocks Decline as Turkish Equities Tumble
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-06-06T21:45:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/emerging-market-stocks-decline-to-six-month-low-on-u-s-data.html
Emerging-market stocks fell to a six-month low as investors weighed prospects that global policy
makers will refrain from additional stimulus. Turkish shares
extended a plunge from this year’s record to 19 percent.  The Borsa Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index led
losses in developing-nation shares as  Akbank TAS (AKBNK)  and  Turkiye
Halk Bankasi (HALKB)  AS slumped at least 3.9 percent, while Turkey’s
bond yields surged. Chinese stocks capped the longest losing
streak in a year as Industrial Bank Co. plunged. Short interest
in the IShares JP Morgan USD Emerging Markets Bond Fund soared
to a record.  Brazil ’s Ibovespa reversed earlier losses.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index lost 0.6 percent to 985.05,
the lowest close since Nov. 21. The European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said further stimulus will be left “on
the shelf” as growth returns, while investors awaited the U.S.
jobs report tomorrow to gauge the pace of recovery in the
world’s biggest economy. Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  accused protesters across the country of violating laws
and said he won’t permit a minority to dominate.  “Uncertainty is not a recipe for higher equity prices,”
Walter ‘Bucky’ Hellwig, who helps manage $17 billion of assets
at BB&T Wealth Management in Birmingham, Alabama, said by phone.
“It’s a continuation of concerns about global growth and
stimulus from the central banks.” The conflicts in Turkey are
“scaring money away” from the country, he said.  Biggest Losses  All  10 groups  in a measure of developing-nation stocks
fell, led by health-care shares. The broad gauge trimmed this
year’s drop to 6.7 percent, compared with an 8.7 percent jump in
the MSCI World Index. The emerging-market measure trades at 10.1
times estimated earnings, a seven-week low, compared with the
MSCI World’s 13.4, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The iShares MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index exchange-traded
fund rose 0.8 percent to $40.90. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
lost 0.6 percent to 24.83.  BlackRock Inc., the world’s biggest money manager, said it
reduced emerging-market positions, citing concern a reduction in
bond buying, or quantitative easing, by the Federal Reserve may
curb support for the assets.  Investors are the most bearish ever on the largest exchange
traded fund for emerging-market bonds. Short interest, a measure
of shares borrowed and sold on speculation they will fall, on
the  iShares JPMorgan USD Emerging Markets Bond Fund (EMB)  surged to
8.5 million on June 5, according to data compiled by London-based Markit Group Ltd. That’s up from 1.9 million on Dec. 31
and is equivalent to 18 percent of the outstanding shares.  Brazil, Mexico  Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  reversed an earlier loss as miner Vale SA
surged 1.4 percent. The Mexican IPC index advanced as Corp. Geo
SAB,  Mexico ’s second-biggest homebuilder by revenue, surged 6.7
percent after saying its main bank creditors have agreed to
cooperate in a debt restructuring.  The Borsa Istanbul gauge slumped 4.7 percent as Akbank
tumbled to a six-month low, while Turkiye Halk Bankasi dropped
to the lowest level since Feb. 26. The benchmark measure reached
a record on May 22. Yields on two-year benchmark bonds climbed a
second day.  Russian shares fell to a one-year low as OAO Mechel,
Russia’s steelmaker and biggest coking coal producer, fell for
the seventh day, dropping 4.8 percent. The dollar-denominated
RTS Index lost 1.1 percent after yesterday sliding into a  bear
market . The ruble-based Micex Index retreated 0.7 percent, the
lowest level since June 2012. OAO  TNK-BP Holding (TNBP)  tumbled as much
as 8.2 percent after the company’s board recommended not paying
dividends for 2012, according to a statement today.  Chinese Stocks  The Shanghai Composite Index fell a sixth day, while
China’s overnight money-market rate climbed to a 16-month high
on speculation cash supply will tighten as banks hoard funds.
Industrial Bank, part-owned by a unit of HSBC Holdings Plc, slid
3 percent. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland
companies capped a seventh day of declines after Nomura Holdings
Inc. cut its rating on the city’s shares.  India’s S&P BSE Sensex declined 0.3 percent to a five-week
low as Infosys Ltd., the country’s second-largest software
exporter, fell 1.3 percent. Stock exchanges in the Philippines
and  Thailand  have moved to soothe investors after speculation
the U.S.  Federal Reserve  may scale back bond purchases prompted
selloffs. Thai’s benchmark SET Index dropped to two-month low.
The Philippine Stock Exchange Index gained 0.8 percent, after
tumbling over the previous three days.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 315 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  