-- Eni’s Recchi Says China’s Priority Is Securing Energy for Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-06T09:19:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/eni-s-recchi-says-china-s-priority-is-securing-energy-for-growth.html
Eni SpA (ENI)  Chairman Giuseppe Recchi
comments on meeting Chinese Premier  Li Keqiang , the nation’s
push for  energy security  and the outlook for electric cars.  Recchi spoke in an interview today in the western Chinese
city of Chengdu, where he’s attending the Fortune Global Forum.
Eni is Italy’s largest oil company.  On meeting Premier Li:  “I found him a person who is very pro-business, a person
that understands very well the path of growth.”  “The prime minister said that securing the energy sources
for sustaining this huge demand of growth is the number one
priority. So he welcomes all the ventures about unconventional
or any type of resources that could be found.”  On Chinese energy security:  “China has a clear view of what its energy demand will be
and so it’s planning for it. And that’s why the energy strategy
is driven by securing the resources, that’s how I read the
strategy to go to Africa and elsewhere in the world, to secure
the supply for the future needs, which I think is very wise.”  On transportation  “We don’t see electric cars changing much the
 transportation industry  in the future, especially about heavy
load transportation like trucks, which cannot be moved now by
electric.”  “Oil price is stable because of the global crisis. But we
expect that looking at what’s happening in China, which is a
hugely-developed country, on top of the trend rates of the
 developing countries , demand for energy in general will never
decrease just because of demographic issues, for example.”  “Expecting that electric cars would make a massive
solution is probably too optimistic. We expect something like in
solar panels will happen. It’s very important but they’re not
enough to sustain worldwide energy demand.”  “Unless in the next ten years we see a breakthrough in
technology we cannot imagine now. Today we’ll bet on gas.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  