-- Erdogan Can Win By Engaging Turkey’s Park Protesters
-- B y   H u g h   P o p e
-- 2013-06-06T22:04:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/erdogan-can-win-by-engaging-turkey-s-park-protesters.html
Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  has been in tighter spots: He was thrown in jail for
alleged Islamism, saw his last political party closed down and
survived a showdown with the once all-powerful Turkish military.  Yet the street protests that erupted first in Istanbul and
then across the country at the end of last month present a
 challenge  he has never faced before. So far, he has mishandled
the situation, and on June 6 showed no  sign  of backing down.
That’s a mistake, because he has the ability to turn the
protests to his advantage and the country’s.  Erdogan is Turkey’s most effective leader since the
republic’s founder, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and much of his
success has been based on determination, populist rhetoric and a
focus on business. Born into one of Istanbul’s notoriously tough
neighborhoods, he is both the unyielding bulldozer of Turkish
politics and the fix-it charmer. Almost 50 percent of the
population voted for his  Justice and Development Party  two years
ago.  What is happening in Turkey today is mostly about the other
50 percent of the country’s 76 million people. An opinion  poll 
by academics at Istanbul’s Bilgi University found that 70
percent of the protesters had no strong political affiliation.
The protests have been full of humor, volunteer enthusiasm,
modern women, celebrities and bands of idealistic children
skipping school. For the first week, the crowds were leaderless,
the only things uniting them being social-media networks and a
common slogan: “Tayyip, resign!”  Popular Pressure  That demand should be taken with a grain of salt. Turks are
well aware that municipal elections in March, a presidential
poll in August 2014 and parliamentary elections in June 2015
will give ample opportunity for change. As popular pressure
forces mainstream Turkish television stations to overcome their
fear of retaliation from Erdogan, chat shows are digesting what
happened. They are also getting to know the newly minted Taksim
Solidarity Platform, a network of more than 35 professional
bodies, civil-society organizations, environmentalist groups,
secularists, community associations and trade unions.  Every turn confirms that this protest is mainly  about 
Erdogan’s increasingly take-it-or-leave-it style, the excessive
brutality of the police, and a slew of huge projects and
initiatives that threaten to limit secular lifestyles and to
concrete over not just Istanbul’s Gezi Park, but also whole
forests and city districts.  Anger was already mounting in Istanbul over a Roma
neighborhood cleared for gated compounds, a 19th-century
district near Taksim forcibly nationalized for redevelopment and
a much-loved old central cinema peremptorily destroyed to make
way for yet another shopping mall. In recent weeks, Erdogan
pushed forward with plans to build a third Istanbul airport
where a forest now stands, a grand mosque that would be visible
from the whole city, plus a new bridge over the Bosporus with
associated highways that would plow through yet more woodland. A
vast land-reclamation project in the Marmara Sea and a shipping
canal parallel to the Bosporus are also planned.  Social media began to overheat in mid-May when the
government, without warning, introduced a bill to regulate the
sale of alcohol and  rushed  it through parliament. This wasn’t a
ban, and the government said the new rules resembled those of
“advanced countries.” But Erdogan then explicitly linked the
bill to Islamic law and indirectly accused secular republican
hero Ataturk of being a “drunkard.”  Boiling Over  So when yet another project began to unexpectedly rip up
trees in the last small patch of green in central Istanbul, the
secular-minded, Western-oriented middle class boiled over. They
have felt increasingly excluded and isolated for years,
unrepresented either by Erdogan’s Justice and Development Party,
or by the ineffectual main opposition parties. Gezi Park was the
last straw.  Luckily for the ruling party, it still has a strand of
idealism that harks back to the reformist agenda that it pressed
so successfully in the early 2000s. President  Abdullah Gul  has
spoken out during the protests to support freedom of expression,
noting that democracy isn’t just about winning elections. Deputy
Prime Minister Bulent Arinc made a refreshingly empathetic
speech, in which he apologized for police excesses and held
talks with the Taksim Solidarity Platform about their demands.  Engaging the mainstream protesters would now be the best
course for Erdogan to adopt, as well, rather than go on
dismissing tens of thousands of ordinary Turks as “a few
looters” and “extremists.” Real consultation and inclusion
would be an easy way to separate most of the peaceful
demonstrators from the hard-left, anarchist and other factions
that are on the front lines of nightly battles with police in
several cities.  Erdogan should outflank these radicals by performing one of
the U-turns for which he has become famous, and seize this
opportunity to restart his government’s stalled reforms.  First, this would support the enormously important process
that he has  started  to end the insurgency by the Kurdistan
Workers’ Party, better known as the PKK. Delivering a long-planned, fully democratic new constitution that addresses the
grievances of the protesters, Kurds and other minority
communities would be a master stroke.  Second, with the government’s Middle East and Syria
policies widely  discredited , this would be a good time to
revitalize  Turkey ’s stalled negotiations with the European
Union. The goal should be the process rather than the
destination -- everybody knows that the negotiations will take a
decade or more to conclude, and that Turks and Europeans will
make the actual accession decision at the end. Yet the act of
meeting accession targets can be hugely beneficial for Turkey.  Third, use the current opportunity for a settlement on
divided Cyprus. This would be good for Greek and Turkish
Cypriots, open up half of Turkey’s blocked EU negotiating
chapters, and make possible an economically and diplomatically
profitable Israel-Cyprus-Turkey natural-gas pipeline.  Finally, such a return to the EU reform agenda would also
provide a tool for Erdogan to use in fixing Turkey’s judicial
system, state tenders and the transparency of government. All of
these are principal demands of the Taksim protesters.  If these reasons don’t convince Erdogan, then a move back
to his roots may also win over some among the 50 percent of the
electorate that didn’t vote for him in 2011. They might consider
him their candidate if, as expected, he runs for the presidency
next year.  (Hugh Pope is the director of  International Crisis Group ’s
Turkey-Cyprus Project and the author of “Turkey Unveiled,”
“Sons of the Conquerors” and “Dining with al-Qaeda.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Hugh Pope at  hpope@crisisgroup.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 