-- Esther Williams, Swim-Champion Star of MGM Musicals, Dies at 91
-- B y   H e a t h e r   B u r k e
-- 2013-06-06T17:32:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/esther-williams-swim-champion-star-of-mgm-musicals-dies-at-91.html
Esther Williams, the swimming
champion turned movie actress whose water-ballet musicals in the
1940s and 1950s rivaled Broadway shows with their elaborate
scenes, has died. She was 91.  She died today in her sleep, the  Associated Press  reported,
citing her publicist Harlan Boll. No cause was given.  Tall and lithe, a champion swimmer as a teenager, Williams
was known as “America’s Mermaid” because she seemed to stay
underwater indefinitely. She said in her 1999 autobiography that
some of her movie stunts almost killed her. Her films for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer included “ Bathing Beauty ” (1944), “ Neptune’s
Daughter ” (1949) and “ Dangerous When Wet ” (1953).  “Like ice skater Sonja Henie before her, Williams was one
of the few female athletes to successfully cross over to
widespread entertainment success,” Harald Johnson wrote in a
1994 article in Competitor for Women magazine.  Her intricate routines, which included swimming, diving and
even waterskiing, led to the development of synchronized
swimming, which became an Olympic sport in 1984.  Williams appeared in about two dozen movies, including 16
aquatic musicals, from the early 1940s until the late 1950s. She
estimated she swam more than 1,000 miles while filming.  She co-starred with Red Skelton and Ricardo Montalban in
“Neptune’s Daughter.” In “ Million Dollar Mermaid ” (1952),
she played Australian swimming star Annette Kellerman. In
“Dangerous When Wet,” she swam with the cartoon cat-and-mouse
duo of Tom and Jerry.  “All they ever did for me at MGM was change my leading man
and the water in my pool,” Williams once said.  Bathing Suits  After her movie career, Williams marketed swimming pools
under her famous name and introduced a line of bathing suits
modeled after the full-cut ones she wore in her films. The
swimsuits were sold on a  website  run by her son.  In January 2008 she donated two scrapbooks from her time at
MGM to the Smithsonian National Museum of American History.  Williams was born in  Los Angeles  on Aug. 8, 1921 -- an
“all-American girl” whose grandparents had “traveled west in
Conestoga wagons,” she wrote in her  autobiography , “The
Million Dollar Mermaid.”  Her mother, Bula, had been a teacher in a one-room
schoolhouse in Dodge City,  Kansas . There, she met Louis
Williams, the son of a local farming family.  The couple eloped in 1908 and headed further west, settling
in  Salt Lake City . They moved to Los Angeles when their first
child, Stanton, a young stage actor, was discovered and tapped
for Hollywood stardom. (He would appear in two movies before
dying, at 16, of a burst colon.)  First Medal  Esther, the youngest of five children, was raised primarily
by an older sister, Maureen, who introduced her to the water.  She grew up swimming in neighborhood pools and surfing. She
won her first medal at 8 for, as she wrote in her book, an
“awkward, 30-yard swim” that opened a new community pool where
she worked.  After winning three national championships in freestyle and
breaststroke by age 16, Williams was selected as a member of the
U.S. team for the 1940 Olympics in  Tokyo . World War II forced
cancellation of the games.  Williams quit attending classes at  Los Angeles City College 
and worked at the I. Magnin department store as a model and
stock clerk. Showman Billy Rose plucked her to star in the San
Francisco Aquacade, a Broadway-style musical with special
effects and hundreds of swimmers and divers. Williams starred
with “Tarzan” actor Johnny Weissmuller, an Olympic swimming
champion, in choreographed aqua duets.  Film Career  MGM executives offered Williams a screen test opposite
 Clark Gable , which led to her screen debut as Mickey Rooney’s
love interest in “ Andy Hardy’s Double Life ” (1942). Williams
said MGM used these films as “tests for its promising stars,”
such as  Judy Garland  and Lana Turner.  In 1944, Williams starred in “Bathing Beauty,” her first
swimming movie, in which a songwriter enrolls in an all-girls’
college to woo a gym teacher. MGM built a 90-foot square pool,
complete with hydraulic lifts and camera cranes for overhead
shots for the first-ever Hollywood swimming musical.  Choreographer  Busby Berkeley  staged the intricate water
scenes in the film, complete with fountains, flames and pretty
girls.  “No one had ever done a swimming movie before, so we just
made it up as we went along,” Williams later said about the
film. “I ad-libbed all my own underwater movements.”  Dramatic Roles  Berkeley coordinated many of her aqua ballets, which
included waterskiing in “Easy to Love” (1953), filmed at
Cypress Gardens in  Florida .  The MGM swimming-musical genre was in decline by the mid-1950s, and Williams tried to move into more dramatic roles. She
played a music teacher who receives threatening notes in “The
Unguarded Moment” (1956) and a member of a family fighting over
the ownership of a circus in “The Big Show” (1961).  She married four times. Her last husband was Edward Bell, a
former college professor, whom she married in 1994. She had two
sons and a daughter from her earlier marriages, plus two step-children from her third marriage, to actor Fernando Lamas. One
of those stepchildren, Lorenzo Lamas, starred in the primetime
soap opera “Falcon Crest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Burke in London at 
 hburke2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  