-- Metal Bulletin Likely to Introduce Auditing of Pricing
-- B y   S i m o n   C a s e y
-- 2013-06-07T13:51:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/metal-bulletin-likely-to-introduce-auditing-of-pricing.html
(Corrects publisher of scrap index in penultimate
paragraph of story published June 6.)  Metal Bulletin Ltd., which has
published metals prices for 100 years, is considering hiring an
outside auditor amid heightened scrutiny of pricing mechanisms.  It’s “more than likely” Metal Bulletin will make such a
move, Managing Director Raju Daswani said today. The auditing
would cover its iron-ore and U.S. ferrous scrap indexes as well
as hundreds of other prices published by the company, he said in
a telephone interview from London.  “We have quite a lot of controls in place that are quite
rigid,” Daswani said. “We are looking at everything that is
going on and making sure that our systems are robust.”  Platts, which publishes energy and raw-materials prices,
was raided by European Union antitrust regulators last month as
part of an oil-price fixing probe. The investigation is being
led by European Union Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia ,
who also is pursuing price-fixing allegations related to the
London interbank offered rate, or Libor, and in the market for
 credit derivatives .  CRU, which competes with Metal Bulletin and Platts, said
yesterday it hired an accounting firm to start checking price
information provided by the  steel industry .  Platts, part of  McGraw Hill Financial Inc. (MHFI) , said May 15 it
was cooperating with the European Commission probe, which also
includes BP Plc, Royal Dutch Shell Plc and Statoil ASA. Platts
said today it had no plans to audit its data providers.  Scrap Futures  Daswani said Metal Bulletin hasn’t received inquiries from
clients concerned about its prices in the wake of the oil-price
investigation. Metal Bulletin, a unit of London-based  Euromoney
Institutional Investor Plc (ERM) , uses a  methodology  for calculating
its indexes that includes weaning out abnormally high or low
data, he said.  Its iron-ore index is used by producers selling to  China ,
the world’s largest market for the steel ingredient. CME Group
Inc.’s U.S. Midwest ferrous  scrap futures  are settled against an
index published by American Metal Market, a sister publication
of Metal Bulletin. The publication carries price information for
more than 900 metals, according to its website.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , competes with
CRU, Euromoney, Platts and other companies in providing
commodities markets news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Casey in  New York  at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  