-- EU Proposes Lowest Allowed Limit for Imported Carbon Credits
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-06-06T07:58:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/eu-proposes-lowest-allowed-limit-for-imported-carbon-credits.html
The European Union’s regulatory arm
proposed to set the quota for international carbon credits at
the lowest level allowed by law after imports aggravated a
record glut of permits in the EU emissions-trading system.  Participants in the world’s biggest carbon market will be
entitled between 2008 and 2020 to use  United Nations ’ credits
totaling up to 11 percent of the EU permits granted to them for
free in 2008-2012, according to a draft  regulation  published by
the European Commission yesterday. They may also opt to choose
as the limit the amount of imported credits allowed under
national permit allocation plans for 2008-2012, if it is higher.  The commission decided not to use an option provided for in
the EU  emissions law  to allow additional imports of UN credits,
according to the draft sent to member states for consideration.
Climate experts from national governments are set to discuss the
measure at their next meeting in Brussels later this month, the
commission said.  “The total EU ETS import limit for 2008-20 will probably
be lower than our current estimate,” Richard Chatterton, an
analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said by e-mail
yesterday. “The exact import limit is unlikely to be known
until end-2013 as it will take several months for the new
regulation to come into force and for member states to calculate
the revised import limit for each installation.”  Power Plants  About 12,000 factories and  power plants  in the EU
emissions-trading system, or ETS, are allowed to use UN offsets
as a cheaper way of compliance with their pollution quotas.
Emitters imported more than 1 billion credits in 2008-2012,
boosting oversupply in the European carbon market to about 2
billion tons, a level that’s almost equal to annual pollution
caps in the system, according to EU data.  EU allowances for delivery in December lost as much as 1.8
percent to 3.84 euros a metric ton and were at 3.89 euros on the
ICE Futures Europe exchange as of 7:49 a.m. in  London . The
contract fell to an all-time low of 2.46 euros last month.  UN Certified Emission Reductions for this year dropped 4.8
percent yesterday to 40 euro cents, compared with a record low
of 20 euro cents on April 17. CERs are created from projects in
 developing countries  under the UN’s Clean Development Mechanism.  Emitters that entered the EU ETS after 2008 and those in
sectors included in the ETS after 2012 would be able to use
international credits up to 4.5 percent of their verified
emissions during the 2013-2020 period, the commission proposed.  Emission Curbs  The offset limit for airlines, which become subject to EU
emission curbs last year, would be 1.5 percent of their verified
emissions in the third phase of the cap-and-trade program, which
started this year and will run through 2020, according to the
draft regulation.  The proposal needs approval by national officials in the
Climate Change Committee, followed by a three-month scrutiny by
the European Parliament and EU ministers, to enter into force.  “ Member states  would then have one month to calculate and
notify to the European Commission the international credit
entitlement for each of their operators in accordance with the
limits set in the regulation,” the commission said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  