-- EU to Meet With Japanese Experts in June to Discuss Gas Markets
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-06-06T06:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/eu-to-meet-with-japanese-experts-in-june-to-discuss-gas-markets.html
European Union and Japanese
representatives are due to meet this month to discuss how
governments can support the creation of “liquid and flexible”
global natural gas markets.  The European Commission’s directorate for energy and
 Japan ’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry have started
cooperation to analyze changes in the markets in recent years
and assess how they should function, the Brussels-based
commission said by e-mail yesterday.  “As major gas importers, Japan and the EU share the need
for the development of transparent and liquid global gas markets
driven by supply and demand fundamentals, while maintaining
secure and stable supply,” it said.  The 27-nation EU is considering ways to lower energy prices
as the shale-gas revolution widens the cost gap between  Europe 
and the U.S., its largest trading partner. European nations must
accelerate efforts to implement energy legislation aimed at
breaking down national barriers by 2014 and develop
interconnections to end the isolation of some  member states  from
networks by 2015, EU leaders said at a summit last month.  In 2012, European wholesale gas prices were more than four
times higher than in the U.S., the commission said in a report
before the summit. As the EU’s oil and gas import dependency is
set to increase to more than 80 percent by 2035, the U.S. is on
its way to become a net exporter, according to the  International
Energy Agency .  Next-month  U.K. gas , a European benchmark, traded at $9.80
per million British thermal units at 5:26 p.m. London time,
while the equivalent U.S. contract was $4.011 per million Btu.  Shale Impact  During the exchange between the EU and Japan, experts will
discuss the impact of the shale-gas revolution in  North America ,
rising gas demand in  Asia  and divergence in gas prices in
regional markets, the commission said today.  “The two sides will share their respective analysis and
existing studies and will try to draw relevant findings, if
possible, with a view to contributing to multilateral
discussions on these issues,” according to the EU statement.  Europe and Japan are seeking ways to increase bargaining
power in the gas market, Japan’s Nikkei newspaper reported last
week, without attribution.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  