-- Euronext Glitch Delays Trading From Paris to Amsterdam
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2013-06-06T08:51:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/euronext-glitch-delays-trading-from-paris-to-amsterdam.html
NYSE Euronext (NYX) , the operator of stock
exchanges in Paris, Brussels, Lisbon and Amsterdam, said a
technical malfunction stopped users from entering orders and
delayed the start of trading on its European bourses.  Equity markets opened at 9 a.m. London time, an hour later
than normal. The breakdown affected stocks, bonds, exchange-traded funds, warrants and certificates on Euronext’s cash
markets and some trading in derivatives, New York-based NYSE
said in an e-mailed notice to clients.  “This has created a big problem,” Eric Hassid, a trader
at Aurel BGC in Paris, said in a phone interview before the
delayed start of trading. “We can’t trade. We have covering to
do and we can’t do it.”  Today’s glitch is not the first technical fault to have
affected Euronext’s markets. A breakdown at its Liffe unit,
 Europe ’s second-largest derivatives market, on Oct. 1 halted
trading in some equity and commodities derivatives. In October
2011, malfunctions stopped the publication of some European
equity indexes on two occasions in less than a week. Euronext
suffered four breakdowns during June and July 2011.  NYSE Euronext, which also operates the New York Stock
Exchange, is being bought by  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) 
Regulators blocked a takeover by Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Boerse
AG (DB1)  last year, citing concern over competition in derivatives and
clearing.  CAC 40  After the delayed start of trading, France’s benchmark  CAC
40 Index (CAC)  rose 0.3 percent to 3,864.64 at 10:50 a.m. in Paris.
The AEX in Amsterdam also gained 0.3 percent, while Portugal’s
PSI-20 Index added 0.1 percent and Belgium’s Bel20 gauge
advanced 0.2 percent.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index traded near a six-week low as
investors awaited policy announcements from the  European Central
Bank  and the Bank of England.  “The delay has aggravated already nervous traders ahead of
a big day of events,” Ishaq Siddiqi, a market strategist at ETX
Capital in London, wrote in e-mailed comments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  