-- European Stocks Decline After Draghi Comments on Stimulus
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-06-06T15:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/european-stock-futures-little-changed-before-ecb-boe.html
European stocks  declined, reversing
earlier gains, as the  European Central Bank  refrained from
announcing additional stimulus measures immediately even as it
held its benchmark  interest rate .  Barclays Plc (BARC)  fell to a one-month low as Sumitomo Mitsui
Banking Corp. sold a stake in the lender. Fiat SpA lost 6.5
percent as Chrysler Group LLC went in for a vehicle recall.
 France Telecom SA (FTE)  rose after its Orange Business Services unit
won a five-year deal to deploy a private network for Heineken
NV.  Johnson Matthey Plc (JMAT)  jumped to its highest price in at least
23 years after posting full-year profit that beat estimates.  The Stoxx 600 dropped 1.2 percent to 291.69 at the close of
trading in London, after earlier gaining as much as 0.4 percent.
The benchmark gauge has still rallied 4.3 percent so far this
year as central banks around the world continued their stimulus
measures.  “You need the global economy to pick up, you need
confidence to pick up,” Chris Godding, who helps oversee about
$3.4 billion as investment manager at Signia Wealth Ltd. in
 London , told Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television. “There’s
a lot of excess capacity in the European economy and there’s a
lot of potential. The ECB just has to do its job in making sure
the liquidity is there for that potential to be realized.”  National benchmark indexes fell in all but one of the 17
western European markets open today as  Stockholm  closed for
Sweden’s National Day. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 lost 1.3 percent,
Germany’s DAX each slid 1.2 percent, and France’s CAC 40 slipped
1 percent. Paris, Amsterdam, Brussels and Lisbon opened an hour
later than usual as  NYSE Euronext , the bourse operator, faced a
technical glitch.  Non-Standard Measures  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said policy makers today
discussed additional stimulus policies and stands ready to act
if needed.  “We had an ample discussion of the various measures, non-standard measures that could be utilized to repair the
transmission policy,” Draghi told reporters in  Frankfurt  after
the policy meeting today. “We see no reason to act on all these
fronts. These are measures we keep on the shelf.”  At its meeting earlier, the ECB kept its benchmark interest
rate unchanged at a record low of 0.5 percent at its  meeting
today . Economists in Bloomberg survey had predicted no rate
change. The ECB also kept its deposit facility rate at zero
percent.  In the U.K., the  Bank of England  retained its asset-purchase  target  at 375 billion pounds ($580 billion) and its
benchmark interest rate at 0.5 percent, in line with economists’
predictions. It was the central bank’s last policy meeting with
 Mervyn King  as governor.  German Industry  German  factory orders  fell more than economists predicted
in April, data showed today. Orders, adjusted for seasonal
swings and inflation, decreased 2.3 percent from March, when
they increased a revised 2.3 percent, the Economy Ministry in
Berlin said. Economists forecast a 1 percent drop, according to
the median of 39 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Barclays fell 4.1 percent to 303.3 pence, its lowest price
since May 3. Sumitomo Mitsui sold a 0.66 percent stake in the
 British lender  at 308.5 pence a share for a total value of 261
million pounds. The sale cut Sumitomo’s stake to 0.66 percent.  Fiat SpA lost 6.5 percent to 5.92 euros. Trading in the
stock was briefly halted in Milan. Chrysler, which is majority
owned by Fiat, is recalling as many as 254,396 Jeep Compass and
Patriot vehicles due to an airbag-deployment defect, the
 National Highway Traffic Safety Administration  announced. The
carmaker is also recalling 180,131 Jeep Wrangler vehicles with a
possible steering fault, the U.S. regulator said on its  website .  Global Network  France Telecom  advanced 0.5 percent to 7.50 euros. Orange
secured a five-year deal with Heineken to provide a
communication network for the brewer’s employees in 53
countries, according to a joint statement today. The companies
didn’t disclose the value of the deal.  Johnson Matthey jumped 6.3 percent to 2,750 pence, its
highest price since at least 1989, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The U.K. platinum refiner and producer of auto-catalysts posted underlying pretax profit that slipped to 389.2
million pounds in the full-year ending in March, still beating
the 379.1 million-pound average  estimate  in a Bloomberg survey.  RSA Insurance Group Plc (RSA) , which insures cars, homes and
ships in the U.K., Scandinavia and  emerging markets , rose 0.8
percent to 114.1 pence. Morgan Stanley raised its  rating  on the
stock to overweight, the equivalent of a buy recommendation,
from underweight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  