-- Eurotunnel Barred From Operating Ferries on Competition Concern
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-06-06T07:07:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/eurotunnel-barred-from-operating-ferries-on-competition-concern.html
Eurotunnel Group SA (GET)  was barred by the
U.K. Competition Commission from operating a ferry service
between France and Dover in the U.K. on concern it would give it
too much dominance on the Channel traffic route.  Eurotunnel will appeal the decision, the Paris-based
company said in a statement. Competition authorities blocked the
service for two years and set restrictions for another eight.  “It cannot be good for competition when Eurotunnel, which
already holds a market share of over 40 percent, moves into the
ferry business,” Alasdair Smith, deputy chairman of the
competition commission said in a statement.  Eurotunnel acquired three ferries from French rail operator
SNCF’s defunct SeaFrance ferry arm last year in the hope of
augmenting its London-to-continent rail service with Calais-to-Dover on-water operations. The service, rebranded MyFerryLink,
would have provided backup capacity when travel through the
tunnel is disrupted, the company had argued.  “This decision by the  Competition Commission  will reduce
the choice of services across the Straits of Dover to the
detriment of the consumer,” said Jacques Gounon, Eurotunnel’s
chairman and chief executive officer. “It will inevitably lead
to an increase in the price of a crossing.”  Anti-trust officials determined that Eurotunnel acquired
SeaFrance assets, including three vessels, to stymie competition
by keeping Copenhagen-based  DFDS A/S (DFDS)  from buying them, the
Competition Commission said.  Forcing a sale of some of the ships could have caused
delays, it said. Nevertheless, Eurotunnel could sell the two
largest ferries approved by the regulator to gain clearance to
operate to Dover in two years, the competition authority said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  