-- European Central Bank President Draghi News Conference (Text)
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-06-06T15:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/european-central-bank-president-draghi-news-conference-text-.html
Following is a transcript of European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s comments from his monthly
news conference in  Frankfurt  today.  MARIO DRAGHI, PRESIDENT, EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK:  So, ladies
and gentlemen, the vice president and I are very pleased to
welcome you to our press conference.  We will now report on the
outcome of today’s meeting of the Governing Council, which was
also attended by the president of the Eurogroup, Finance
Minister Dijsselbloem.  Based on our regular economic and monetary analysis, we
decided to keep the key ECB interest rates unchanged.  Incoming
information has confirmed our assessment which led to the cut in
interest rates in early May.  The underlying price pressure in
the euro area is expected to remain subdued over the medium
term.  In keeping with this picture, monetary and in particular
credit dynamics remains subdued.  Medium-term inflation expectations for the euro area
continue to be firmly anchored, in line with our aim of
maintaining inflation rates below but close to 2 percent.  At
the same time, recent economic sentiment survey data have shown
some improvement from low levels.  The accommodative stance of
our monetary policy, together with the significant improvement
in financial - in financial markets since mid-2012, should
contribute to support prospects for an economic recovery later
in the year.  Against this overall background, our monetary policy stance
will remain accommodative for as long as necessary.  In the
period ahead, we will monitor very closely all incoming
information on economic and monetary developments and assess any
impact on the outlook for  price stability .  Let me now explain our assessment in greater detail,
starting with our economic analysis.  Real GDP contracted by 0.2
percent in the first quarter of 2013, following a decline of 0.6
percent in the fourth quarter of 2012.  Output has thus declined
for six consecutive quarters, with labor market conditions
remaining weak.  Recent developments in economic sentiment
survey data have shown some improvement from low levels.  Looking ahead to later in the year and to 2014, euro area
export growth should benefit from a recovery in global demand,
while domestic demand should be supported by the accommodative
stance of our monetary policy and by the recent real income
gains due to lower  oil prices  and generally lower inflation.  Furthermore, the significant improvement - improvements in
financial markets seen since last summer should work that way
through to the real economy, as should the progress made in
fiscal consolidation.  At the same time, the remaining necessary
balance sheet adjustments in the public and private sectors will
continue to weigh on economic activity.  Overall, euro area
economic activity should stabilize and recover in the course of
the year, albeit at subdued pace.  This assessment is also reflected in the June 2013
Eurosystem staff macroeconomic projections for the euro area,
which foresee annual real GDP declining by 0.6 percent in 2013
and increasing by 1.1 percent in 2014.  Compared with the March
2013, ECB staff macroeconomic projections, the projection for
2013 has been revised marginally downwards, largely reflecting
the incorporation of the latest GDP data releases.  For 2014,
there has been a marginal upward revision.  The Governing Council continues to see downside risks
surrounding the economic outlook for the euro area.  They
include the possibility of weaker-than-expected domestic and
global demand and slow or insufficient implementation of
structural reforms in euro area countries.  According to Eurostat’s flash estimate, euro area annual
HICP inflation was 1.4 percent in May, up from 1.2 percent in
April.  This increase was in particular accounted for by a
rebound in services prices related to the unwinding of the
Easter effect and an increase in food prices.  More generally,
as stated last month, annual inflation rates are expected to be
subject to some volatility throughout the year, due particularly
to base effects relating to energy and food price developments
12 months earlier.  Looking through this volatility, the underlying price
pressure over the medium term is expected to remain subdued,
reflecting low capacity utilization and a modest pace of
economic recovery.  Over the medium term, inflation expectations
remain firmly anchored in line with price stability.  This
assessment is also reflected in the June 2013 Eurosystem staff
macroeconomic projections for the euro area, which foresee
annual HICP inflation at 1.4 percent and 1.3 percent in 2013 and
2014, respectively.  In comparison with the March 2013 ECB staff macroeconomic
projections, the projection for inflation for 2013 has been
revised downwards, mainly reflecting the fall in oil prices,
while the projection for 2014 remains unchanged.  In the Governing Council’s assessment, risks to the outlook
for price developments are broadly balanced over the medium
term, with upside risks relating to stronger-than-expected
increases in administered prices and indirect taxes, as well as
higher commodity prices and downside risks stemming from weaker
economic activity.  Turning to the monetary analysis, recent data confirm that
the underlying pace of monetary and, in particular, credit
expansion continues to be subdued. Annual growth in broad money,
M3, increased in April to 3.2 percent, from 2.6 percent in
March, mainly due to a base effect and special factors.  The
same factors impacted on the annual growth rate of narrow money
- narrow monetary aggregate, M1, which increased from 7.1
percent in March to 8.7 percent in April.  The growth of loans to the private sector continued to be
weak.  The annual growth rates of loans to households remained
at 0.3 percent in April, broadly unchanged since the turn of the
year.  The annual negative growth of loans to non-financial
corporations increased from minus 1.3 percent in March to minus
1.9 percent in April.  This development stemmed, in particular,
from net redemptions in short-term loans, which could reflect
reduced demand for working capital against the background of
weak order books in early spring.  More generally, weak loan
dynamics continue to reflect primarily the current stage of the
business cycle, heightened credit risk, and the ongoing
adjustment of financial and non-financial sector balance sheets.  In order to ensure adequate transmission of monetary policy
to the financing conditions in euro area countries, it is
essential that the fragmentation of euro area credit markets
continues to decline further and that the resilience of banks is
strengthened where needed.  Progress has been made since last
summer in improving the funding condition of banks, in
strengthening the domestic deposit base in stressed countries,
and in reducing reliance on the Eurosystem as reflected in
repayments of the three-year LTROs.  Further decisive steps for
establishing a banking union will help to accomplish this
objective.  In particular, the Governing Council emphasizes that
the future Single Supervisory Mechanism and the Single
Resolution Mechanism are crucial elements for moving towards re-integrating the banking system and, therefore, require swift
implementation.  To sum up, the economic analysis indicates that price
developments should remain in line with price stability over the
medium term.  A cross-check with the signals from the monetary
analysis confirms this picture.  With regard to fiscal consolidation and structural reforms,
the Governing Council welcomes the progress made and encourages
governments to continue with determined efforts.  It is
essential that euro area countries do not unravel their efforts
to reduce government budget deficits.  The new European
governance framework for fiscal and economic policies should be
applied in a steadfast manner.  In this respect, the Governing Council considers it very
important that decisions by the European Council to extend the
timeframe for the correction of excessive fiscal deficits should
remain reserved for exceptional circumstances.  At the same
time, it is necessary to continue, where needed, to take
legislative action or otherwise promptly implement structural
reforms.  Structural reforms should, in particular, target
competitiveness and adjustment capacities in labor and product
markets, thereby helping to generate employment opportunities in
an environment of unacceptably high unemployment levels,
especially among young workers, prevailing in several countries.
 Combined action on the fiscal and structural front should
mutually reinforce fiscal sustainability and economic growth
potential and thereby foster sustainable  job creation .  And we are now at your disposal for questions.  STAFF:  (OFF-MIKE)  QUESTION:  Alessandro Merli with Sole 24 Ore from Italy.
You mentioned in several - on several occasions the need to
provide more credit to small and medium enterprises.  And in the
last press conference in Bratislava, you also mentioned the
possibility of doing something to restart the securitization
market and ABSs.  Could you give us a progress report on the
work on that front?  Have you scale down your ambitions there?
I think the vice president mentioned in a speech that maybe
expectations were a bit excessive on that - in that regard.  And the other question about interest rates, have you
discussed the possibility of cutting them?  Was your decision
unanimous on that respect?  DRAGHI:  Now, we had an ample discussion of the various
measures - say, nonstandard measures - that could be utilized to
repair the transmission channels of monetary policy.  In this
context, we’ve discussed ABS, we discussed VLTROs (ph), we
discussed the inherence (ph) in the ACC, the additional credit
claims framework, we discussed our collateral policies.  And so
we will continue discussing seeing the oldest measures have -
most of these measures actually address the funding problems,
first and foremost.  First, let’s consider this.  Second, some measures are easier to implement and clear in
their consequences.  We know, for example, the VLTROs (ph)
measures.  Some other measures, like we have - I just want to
remind you that we also discussed the possibility of a negative
rate on the deposit facility and we discussed that, as well.
And we are now technically ready for that.  We see - and I said on several other occasions - there are
several unintended consequences, and as well as with other
measures, at this present point in time, we see no reason to act
on all these fronts, but these are all measures we keep on the
shelves, really.  The ABS issue is more complicated than the others, however.
 You have to consider that - and I think I did say this in the
past - that the ABS market’s been dead for many years.  And -
and it’s been dead for several reasons.  Some of them had to do
with the problems that the ABS caused during the crisis and
before the crisis.  Other reasons have to do with the liquidity
and the capital regulatory framework for these - for these ABSs.  But even - I mean, once you analyze this and you go back
and you see, here we’re talking about specific ABS for SMEs’
loans.  Even before the crisis, ABS for SME loans were very,
very little, probably the smallest component of ABS, if I’m not
mistaken.  Why is that?  Because it’s very difficult to put SME
loans in an ABS to - and to correctly rate and price it so that
it can be traded like - like other forms of ABS.  It’s
containing much more standardized products.  Having said that, there is - there is a  task force  that
continues its work, together with EIB, and we’ll certainly look
at the possibility of taking - if they produce something, it
will be collateralized.  It will be guaranteed by other
institutions.  We’ll certainly look at the possibility of taking
it as collateral.  But this is something not for in the short
term, anyway.  It does require a prolonged period of time.
First of all, to make the whole ABS thing functioning, we have
to overcome the liquidity and the capital - overcome - change
the liquidity and the capital regulatory framework for these
types of ABS, which is - which is, I think - anyway, it’s a
long-term - medium-, long-term proposition.  On - on the - on the second question, the last time we said
that the Governing Council would look at all the incoming data,
we’ll monitor closely all the developments and we will stand
ready to act.  So we had - we had a full discussion, a very rich
discussion on the incoming data since last time, on the changes
that have taken place, and some changes are for the better.
Some survey data are - have come out better than expected.  We
had a flash estimate of the inflation rate in May, which is 1.4
higher than the month before.  Other data concerning credit
developments are not - not as good.  But, by and large, the Governing Council agreed that there
wasn’t any directional change that would justify taking action
at this point in time.  And having said that, I can only repeat
what I said last time.  We will monitor very closely all the
incoming developments, and we stand ready to act.  STAFF:  Brian Blackstone, please.  QUESTION:  Brian Blackstone with the Wall Street Journal.
You mentioned that these various instruments are on the shelf.
Is this adding to the volatility in the financial markets, not
just the ECB kind of dangling these things out there for people
to - to look at and then see what various officials make
comments on?  Also, other central banks - the  Federal Reserve ,
when they talk about tapering or not tapering, it seems like the
central banks are now a source of volatility in the financial
markets.  What role is the ECB playing in that?  And what can be
done to limit that?  And my second question is on unemployment.  You mentioned
again that it’s unacceptably high.  Do you see anything that the
governments have done in the past year or 18 months that you’ve
been talking about this that you would say, hey, that’s a -
that’s a good thing that this country did and it should be
replicated elsewhere?  Thank you.  DRAGHI:  OK, I think - I would answer the first question
saying that, frankly, the ECB hasn’t done anything to increase
volatility in the markets.  I mean, if you think that the ECB
has done anything comparable to what’s happened in the other
central banks, we wouldn’t agree about this perception.  I think
we are, all in all, at the present time, in a much more, I would
say, conservative stance, although our monetary policy remains
accommodative and, as I said, it will stay accommodative as long
as needed.  But certainly, we have observed an increase in global
volatility coming for major, major monetary policy decisions or
announcements of decisions that may be taken in the coming
months.  And - but I don’t think the ECB has been in any event
the source of this.  I can’t really find any data supporting
this - this consequence.  Now, the second point is about unemployment.  The
persuasion in - in the Governing Council is that the - the
present levels of unemployment are a combination of cyclical
factors, but also structural factors.  There’s no - there’s no
question, as far as the first are concerned, that we - we had
the labor market - and general economic activity in the labor
market are experiencing the effects of a combined credit crunch
and the effects of the unavoidable fiscal consolidation that
many of these countries had to undertake.  It’s also true that there are some structural factors that
are blocking the labor markets in several countries.  And as I
said several times, it seems like the flexibility of the labor
market has been placed squarely only on the shoulders of the
young population.  And that is one of the major reasons for the
youth unemployment being so - so high in some countries.  We should also add another reason, however, that a fast-changing world - that is to say, globalization - does require
new skills, does require investments in human capital, and so
youth unemployment can be explained also - also on this - on
this basis, on a mismatch of - of skills and human capital.  So what the governments should do, I think, as well, they
should repair the structural weaknesses of these markets, and -
and the - as far as the ECB is concerned, we see a gradual
recovery, albeit, as I say, at low levels, taking ground in the
second part of this year.  STAFF:  Reuters, Eva Kuehnen?  QUESTION:  Eva Kuehnen from Reuters.  Hello, Mr. Draghi.
You reiterated twice now that the monetary policy would remain
accommodative for as long as needed or as long as necessary.
Now, I was wondering, would issuing a more formal forward
guidance be a way to ease monetary policy further?  And my second question is concerning the banking union,
which you also refer to in your opening statement, and you said
a swift implementation of the SSM and the SRM was - was needed.
So my question is, would a so-called resolution board, as it was
put forward recently by a Franco-German deal, be adequate for
the ECB to start banking supervision on time and properly?
Thank you.  DRAGHI:  Thank you.  On the first question, we - we already
gave some forward guidance in terms of liquidity availability.
When - I think it was last time or the time before, I said that
the fixed rate full allotment would be maintained in - for the
whole of next year, until July 2014, at least and as long as it
needed.  That is to say, if it’s needed to prolong beyond that
date, it would be prolonged.  We haven’t addressed yet other types of forward guidance as
other central banks are - are - have done.  And we’re reflecting
on it, like it’s one of the other arguments, topics that I
mentioned before.  We have a range of different instruments.
One - this would be more in the standard size and the others
would be more on the non-standard.  On the - yes, we are - we are - we are optimistic about -
well, optimistic is perhaps too much of a word - but confident
that the Single Resolution Mechanism will be in place by the
time the single supervisor will take over.  We are not unaware
of the many difficulties not so much in establishing - well,
establishing a Single Supervisory Mechanism - I’m sorry, Single
Resolution Mechanism.  There are diverging views about what is
the right pecking order, whether there should be depositor
preference.  You all know about these differing views about
that.  But I - we’re relatively confident that this can be
overcome in time.  A different - a different thing would be the existence of a
single resolution authority, where the divergences are whether
it should be - should require a treaty change or not, but
certainly the Single Resolution Mechanism already would be
significant progress and would help the single supervisor to
take over with great confidence.  STAFF:  (OFF-MIKE)  QUESTION:  French daily (inaudible) maybe I repeat the
question, first one, about the decision of today, if it was
unanimous or not.  I didn’t hear yes or no, in your words.  And
were there may be some members voicing for next rate cut or not?  And, secondly, yeah, no, at the time, the ECB is 15 years
old.  And what we see in the press are some - a lot of diverging
opinions from board members on what to do at that time.  You
underscored it’s difficult to act on some topics, but it seems
that there are some divisions and no agreement on rates or on
buying or not IBS or negative deposit facility and so on.  So
there is not - is there a moment where your authority maybe
could be at stake?  DRAGHI:  Well, on - on the first point, the - there was a
consensus by the Governing Council in the assessment that
changes were not enough to grant immediate action.  So it was
more a discussion based on the analysis than on the decision,
really.  The - I think much has been - too much has been done, in
terms of dramatization of differing views.  You have differing
views in all central banks, and at a period of such a great
uncertainty, obviously you have a variety of opinions.  That’s
good.  It’s actually very good.  And on the - but we have to distinguish.  You can have
disagreements about - about certain measures, but differing
perceptions about the other measures I mentioned - namely ABS,
VLTROs (ph), enhancement of additional credit claims,
collateral, and so on and so forth - these are all - all sort of
topics in the course of exploration, when people don’t have
definite views yet, because these are - as I said before - very
complex.  So we are starting them together.  And of this - while you
study and explore ideas, obviously, you may have changes of
views, and you - your own view may change during the discussion.
 So to depict a dramatization of contrasts on these measures is
certainly a vast exaggeration.  I think there was some sort of - can’t remember now - at
some point, there was a rumor that we would use ABS to buy the
credit claims of Italian companies towards the government.  I
still wonder who had this idea.  I really don’t know.  Who put
this idea into mind?  Of course, it’s impossible, but - but that
was - just lasted for one week.  Then it disappeared, and so on.
 So I don’t think there is anything to be - to be dramatic about
that.  STAFF:  Michael Steen (inaudible)  QUESTION:  Michael Steen, Financial Times.  Mr. Draghi, I
guess the weather’s turned a bit better, at least in Frankfurt,
people starting to go on their summer holidays.  There are still
capital controls in Cyprus throughout this period.  Do you have
a view on how long those should last?  And is it damaging that
they’re going on so long?  And is - are capital controls
something that you could ever envisage happening again inside
the eurozone?  And a second question on OMT.  Obviously, we have the
Karlsruhe court next week discussing that.  Can you just confirm
that the legal documentation for that is actually all ready, but
you’re not going to publish it until you actually need to use
it?  And does that help when you have things like the German
 Constitutional Court  holding hearings on it?  Thanks.  DRAGHI:  Yeah, on the first thing, capital controls, the -
as you know, the ECB is not competent for capital controls.
Capital controls are under the domain of the commission.  And
the commission is working actively with the national bank, with
the national bank of Cyprus, with the - with the supervisors
there to assess when it would be the time to lift capital
controls.  We - the ECB is aware that capital controls distort
profoundly the markets in the euro area.  And we made clear our
view at the time, and certainly compatibly with the stability of
the - of the financial flows of the island, the capital controls
- the sooner be lifted, the better.  But it’s not - it’s not our
responsibility.  The second point about the legal documentation
of that is ready and it’s about to come out.  So it’s -  QUESTION:  Today?  DRAGHI:  Not today, no.  QUESTION:  Not today.  DRAGHI:  Not today.  But there is no - frankly, you ask me
this question any time, but, I mean, I can’t really see the
issue, where - what is - what is the issue about that?  So,
anyway, but - if it becomes an issue, it’s ready to come out.
If it has to be an issue, it will come out.  We never thought it
would be an issue.  STAFF:  (OFF-MIKE)  QUESTION:  Yes, thank you.  Can you hear me?  Yeah, thanks
(inaudible) I also have - my first question is also on OMT and
Karlsruhe next week.  You have emphasized in the past the
importance of OMT for calming down the markets and the euro
crisis.  So I just wanted to know what you think - at least if
the - if the court might put in - put in question the OMT, let’s
say, at least politically, what could be the consequences for
markets?  And the second question is on fiscal policy.  In your
statement, you extended the paragraph on fiscal policy, and you
also mentioned the new framework, saying that it’s necessary to
limit the extension of the timeframes to exceptional
circumstances.  I just wanted to know, do we have such
circumstances at the moment, for example, if we look at  France ?
Thank you.  DRAGHI:  Just my chance (ph) - the - let me say about OMT,
because when I - now, of course, it’s time when we all look back
at what - at what OMT has produced, and, frankly, when you look
at the data, it’s really very hard not to state that OMT’s been
probably the most successful monetary policy measure undertaken
in recent time.  Look at that.  We - before OMT, we had some expectations of
deflationary risks.  I think I see that as the - one of the
greatest achievement of this monetary policy measure, and that’s
over.  That’s over.  You have the stock prices, which went up
everywhere, from, say, 30 percent in  Germany  to 39 percent in
 Spain , which means that the cost of capital has gone down,
creating a much more favorable environment for investments.  You see that TARGET2 balances - I just received the data an
hour ago - TARGET2 balances today are at the level they were in
December - early December, before of 2011, before the first LTRO
had been undertaken.  And within the TARGET2 balances, you would
see that, for Germany, the TARGET2 balances declined by 160
billion euros since then.  And there are people who are convinced the TARGET2 balances
are a big risk for countries.  To these people, they should
admit that now the risks are lower after OMT.  The 10-year
sovereign bond yields declined spectacularly in several
countries, but went up in Germany.  And that’s very important
for the saver, for the German saver, and for the insurance
companies and the pension funds.  So I can only - and then I can continue on this -
volatility, and this is - so the OMT has brought stability not
only to the markets in Europe, but also to the markets
worldwide.  Same thing if you look at U.S. stock prices, but, of
course, in other - in other jurisdictions, other things have
happened at the same time.  So I’m saying this, that looking -
looking backward, one can only be quite satisfied by the results
obtained by this - by this operation.  Now, about - about Karlsruhe, the Constitutional Court, I’m
absolutely confident that the court will decide in total
independence and will - will analyze, will consider with
thoroughness, fairness and competence all the advice from all
the sides.  Your second question was about fiscal measures.  Well,
yeah, I mean - yes, you’re right.  The position of the ECB is
that these extensions, two-year extensions should be - should be
given in exceptional circumstances and, more importantly, should
be coupled with the commitment to undertake structural reforms.
And I’m saying this because very often these fiscal adjustments
are combined with a lack of competitiveness in the countries
concerned.  So if one - if one country just gets two years of
extension, and then in two years’ time comes back with a higher
deficit, higher level of debt, and the same degree of
competitiveness - that is to say, very little - I don’t think
the markets will be happy and will - will punish very soon this
country or other countries like that.  So the - the - I would say the plea here is, don’t get too
optimistic about the present market condition.  Don’t interpret
the present market condition as one that would allow any
protracted relaxation of fiscal standards without undertaking
structural reforms at the same time, without increasing
competitiveness.  That’s the message that I would - I would
have, and that’s the message that in the introductory statement,
that’s what it meant.  STAFF:  Over there in the middle, the gentleman, yeah.  QUESTION:  (inaudible) I’ve got two questions.  First
question, could you give us some date on the development of the
 bank deposits  at the  European Central Bank  during the last four
weeks?  Have deposits been reduced?  And the second question is, why aren’t you willing to speak
at the hearings in the German Constitutional Court?  Thank you.  DRAGHI:  OK.  Well, I’ll answer the second question first.
It’s not that I’m not willing.  The fact is that we thought it
would be the best - the most suitable person, and we convened -
all of us - that it would be Mr. Rasmussen who’s in charge of
the legal department, the legal affairs in the board, and he’s
close to the German legal system.  He knows much better the
German legal system.  So that’s what we have concluded.
Incidentally, the ECB did not receive a request for me to go
there, but just for the institution to be represented.  Having said that, you know that I don’t shy away from
making my ideas and my views clear.  So I would certainly find
plenty of opportunities, as I’ve started today in a sense to
make my views clear.  So it was really a choice of - of who
would be the best person for the court.  The second point is, we continue to experience a decrease
in the excess liquidity.  We continue to experience repayments
in our LTRO.  And right now, these repayments have reached
something like 60 percent about - perhaps slightly below 60
percent of the net injection that took place in the early months
of 2012.  Now, this is a positive sign, because basically it shows
that the financial conditions continue to normalize and that
banks don’t need to rely only on the ECB for their funding.
They can get funding from other sources, namely deposits in the
stressed countries have become again a source of funding.
Interbank market in the non-stressed countries is returning to
be again a source of funding and so on and so forth.  It’s also a sign, however, that this liquidity is - doesn’t
find its use in - in the system.  So it’s a good sign from a
financial market stabilization, and it’s also - I wouldn’t say
it’s a sign - it’s a symptom of the underlying credit weakness,
the fact that it’s returning, and that is - that’s to be
considered.  All in all, all in all, the ECB is the only central bank
where the - I would say the M1 component of the money creation
is shrinking in - I would say - not the M1, the - the liquidity
component of the money creation is - is shrinking.  And that is
also a good thing, because we downsize, we gradually downsized
the balance sheet of the bank, of the central bank, without -
differently from other central banks, without having to decide
anything that would or could create volatility.  It’s an automatic process of downsizing the balance sheet
without this process being deflationary, because it’s not that
it’s been cut - credit has been cut.  Credit is not there yet.
So that’s the - finally, I would say that you - you certainly
for - you certainly don’t - have not forgotten in - in the early
months of 2012 how some people were saying how big, immense were
the risks that we were undertaking with these measures.  Have we
seen any of that?  Thank you.  STAFF:  Bloomberg and then Market News, please.  QUESTION:  Hello?   Jeff Black  from  Bloomberg News .  I’d
like to go back to the economic outlook for a second.  At what
point, Mr. Draghi, do you think that the economy needs to have
bottomed out this year for your scenario of a recovery later on
to still materialize?  I mean, we’re already in June, so I’m
wondering how long you think we’ve got in that respect.  And, secondly, which goes back to the - the idea of SME
lending, I think if I understand correctly, you’re saying that
there’s very little that the central bank can do about the
short-term cyclical fragmentation in the lending market because
of the recessions that are going on around the euro area.  But
over the long term, it seems as if the only logical way to deal
with this is that the banks are properly recapitalized first.  So going into summits - for example, the one at the end of
this month - are you going to ask for a quid pro quo from
governments to commit to making recapitalizations or
restructurings before the central bank will commit to unveiling
a plan on SMEs?  Thanks.  DRAGHI:  On your first question, it’s clearly - the
question you’re asking is the key question we are asking
ourselves every time, and not only when we meet.  The one answer
is to ask yourself, what are the drivers of this recovery, which
is going to be gradual, as I said many times?  And, well, the drivers certainly are being - right now are
the experts.  Experts have increased in almost all countries,
especially, I would say, in Germany, in Spain, and in Italy.  So
the - the first - the first - the first driver is that.  And the second driver is our - our own accommodative
monetary policy, which gradually will find its way through the
economy.  When - when - well, let me finish with the drivers.
The other thing is that, frankly, the low inflation has - is
increasing the purchasing power of the incomes of the people.
The very low price - very low - the low price of oil, the lower
price of oil is also a factor that - that - that would work in
this - in this direction.  Finally, although less than in other countries like the
United States or U.K., you have a wealth effect coming from the
improvement in financial markets.  And you have, as I said
before, lower cost of capital for investment.  Against this, you
have a quite broad weakness in domestic demand and in
consumption especially due to the high unemployment.  So you
have these two forces, really.  On the second question - but before I answer the second
question, there is one - one - one aspect of this which is
linked.  When you - when you talk to - when you talk to banks
that are healthy and don’t need recapitalization, you ask them,
but why don’t you lend more?  The answer you get is - the answer
you get is that, look, the net rate of return adjusted for risk
from lending is not enough for us to lend.  We - we have done a
lot in reducing - in increasing the net rate of return, because
the net rate of return includes the funding rates, and they have
gone down.  But the perception of risk of macroeconomic risk is
still there.  So - and that is a question of time.  Coming to this - to the second point, the - so one reason
why banks don’t lend is really a  risk aversion , and the risk
aversion which is both micro, with respect to their clients, and
the macro, with respect to the general economic environment and
the high uncertainty that still prevails in some parts of the
euro area.  Where I’m saying this, of course, I take for granted that
there are sectors of the economic activity in certain countries,
like the construction in Spain, that needed to be downsized
anyway.  So you have a certain amount of deleveraging taking
place in various parts - for one reason or another, in various
parts of the euro area.  And that’s positive.  The second point is about banks being recapitalized.  We -
we envisage this - the following sequence.  We don’t want to
repeat the mistakes that have been made in 2011, when we had the
EBA running stress tests without the countries having agreed -
the governments having agreed about having a backstop.  You certainly remember, in the United States, was just the
other way around.  First, they determined the backstop, and then
they made the - the asset quality of the balance sheet review,
and miraculously, the capital needs of these banks came out
exactly equal to the backstop that had been allotted.  Now, we don’t have these magic powers, but at least we want
to make sure that there is an explicit commitment by the
governments, by the ESM, by the Eurogroup to provide a backstop
in case the asset quality review undertaken by the ECB,
conjunctly by the ECB, the national supervisors, the third-party
private-sector assessor, and by other national supervisors,
which will exert peer pressure, just in case there were a
capital shortfall, there would be a backstop.  Let me quickly add two things.  First, I think the
situation’s changed very much in the last two or three years for
the better.  Banks have raised capital.  They are - they have
deleveraged a lot.  So the expectation is nothing as we had
expected three, four years ago, as we had actually found out
two, three, four years ago.  And, second, before you use a backstop, there are many ways
that the bank can recapitalize itself.  Of course, they can go -
you have supervisory action, first of all.  Second, you can go
to the markets.  Third, you can merge.  You can do lots of other
things before you use the backstop, but it’s psychologically so
important to know that if you have a capital shortfall that
cannot be addressed by all these measures, it can be addressed
by the backstop.  It’s very, very important.  So we will ask -
we have already asked that.  Thank you.  QUESTION:  (OFF-MIKE) I would like to go back to the topic
of interest rates.  Can we deduce from your description of your
discussion today that fewer members called for an  interest rate 
cut today than had called for a 50 basis point cut last month?  DRAGHI:  I’m sorry.  I don’t get it.  What did you say?
This is complicated.  QUESTION:  Last month - last month, you told us that a
number of Governing Council members had actually pushed for more
aggressive easing.  And I wonder whether the number of council
members who called for a rate cut today were fewer than those
who had hoped for more aggressive easing in the previous month.
That’s my first question.  My second question is, you repeatedly said that the ECB is
technically ready for negative interest rates.  Are you equally
technically ready to move both the main refinancing rate and the
deposit rate to (inaudible) and do you see any non-technical
obstacles to having both rates at the same level?  Thank you
very much.  DRAGHI:  Thank you.  The - the first question, frankly, the
discussion was not on whether to cut rates or not.  The
discussion was on whether we had enough of a change since last
time to grant action now.  And the consensus - the prevailing
consensus, the vastly prevailing consensus, if you want - or I
can go on and on with adding adjectives to this - was that -
that basically there was a common assessment that the changes
that have taken place are not sufficiently one directional as to
grant action.  Now, having said that, I said - as I said before
- we stand ready to act.  And we will continue monitoring
closely all incoming data.  On the second point, I told you, we are technically ready.
We looked at that.  We don’t precommit.  I’m not going to tell
you that what we will do next month or in two months’ time or in
six months’ time exactly, but I just want to know that - want to
tell that all the preparation for venturing into the negative
territory for the interest rate on the deposit facility is
there.  Whether this will be combined with other measures or
not, I’m not in a position to tell you now.  QUESTION:  But my question was (OFF-MIKE) technically ready
to have the deposit rate and the main refinancing rate both at
zero or whether that presents a problem?  DRAGHI:  And I’m saying that this question implies a
possibility that I’m going to tell you exactly what we’re going
to do about the MRO.  And we don’t do it.  We don’t do it in the
sense we don’t tell you this now.  STAFF:  Marica Defeo (ph)?  QUESTION:  Marica Defeo (ph), Correa de la Sera (ph).
There was a report yesterday about radical cure that the ECB is
preparing for banks.  And the - in autumn (ph) just in
preparation of the SSM competencies.  And there was also some -
there was a talk of the opposition of some France, of some
countries like France and Italy to this radical cure.  I would -
I’m asking you if it is true at all.  And, second, which influence has the - the possible change
in the monetary policy of the Fed for your rate decision today?
Of course, I know that you say that it’s another central bank
and it’s - you are in another cycle, but some people say this
was also very important.  Can you maybe -  DRAGHI:  Well, the first - in answering the first question,
I would - I would certainly not use the word “radical cure.”
What we are going to do is - and I think we did say it clearly -
we are going to have an asset quality or a balance sheet review
of the banks that are going to be taken under the Single
Supervisory Mechanism.  This review - we have agreed about
having this review being done by - conjunctly by the ECB, by the
national bank - the national supervisor, by also other national
supervisors working in - working in a joint form, like - in
other words, that way, we will increase peer pressure.  We would
increase reciprocal disclosure, mutual disclosure.  And, fourth,
a private-sector assessor.  That is - that’s been agreed.  I don’t think - I don’t
think I know that there isn’t any - any disagreement about that.
 So I don’t know where these reports were coming from.  On the second point, the - what’s happening in the rest of
the world is - as someone said before, is - is producing
consequences on volatility, on interest rates, all along the
yield curves, and we’ll certainly look at that in our monetary
policy decisions in the discussion of the monetary policy
decisions, but our monetary policy is completely independent.
So it does pursue price stability as an objective, price
stability in the euro area and in the medium term.  So we - we take into account all incoming information in
taking our decisions, but in terms of having any direct
influence, no, I would say absolutely not.  STAFF:  (OFF-MIKE) please?  QUESTION:  Yes, do you hear me?  (inaudible) I have two
questions.  The first one is for you - is if you see any risk of
deflation in some countries of the  euro zone ?  And the second
question is, yesterday there was - the IMF summed another  mea
culpa  on the austerity measures, which were imposed on  Greece .
I wonder if the ECB has some mea culpa to do?  Thank you.  DRAGHI:  Well, not really.  (LAUGHTER)  On - on - on deflation, on deflation, the price - the price
path that’s been - that’s been foresee by the staff projections
is lower than the price path that was foreseen in previous staff
projections, both for this year and for the next year.  This is
mostly due to a decrease in the price of oil.  If you see - if
you take oil and food outside, you would see that the decline -
the difference between the two price path - the ones that are
before projections and the ones today (ph) projections is much,
much smaller.  Second, what - is there deflation?  Now, let’s ask
ourselves what deflation is.  Deflation is a protracted fall in
prices across different commodities, sectors and countries -
let’s say a generalized protracted fall in prices, with self-fulfilling expectations.  So it has explosive dynamics downward.
 We don’t see anything like that.  QUESTION:  (OFF-MIKE)  DRAGHI:  Yeah, no, we don’t see anything like that in any
country.  Also, when we look at which prices are falling, we see that
this fall in - this fall in - this fall in prices is actually
restricted to certain categories of goods, as I said, regardless
of oil and food, but in other occasions, it has to do with falls
due to more - less regulation, for example, or the introduction
of technologies which would increase productivity.  And, of course, you - the fall in price in the price of oil
is very important, because we - we really have to understand now
what is a structural fall in the price of oil - namely, that
it’s going to stay, because of the shale gas in the United
States and elsewhere - apparently, it’s - it’s not only in the
United States, or it’s something transitory.  So, basically, we
don’t see that.  Also, when monetary policy has to look through volatility,
which I think as the introductory statement says, is going to
stay in the price path.  So don’t be surprised if you will see
bumps in the price paths in the months ahead, because there is
going to be volatility there.  But you want to look through volatility.  And you ask
yourself the question, how are inflation expectations behaving?
And there you see that inflation expectations remain firmly
anchored.  Whether you take the inflation expectations derived
from the financial markets or from - or from the surveys, the -
the SBF, the - the - shows that inflation expectations have been
anchored at 1.9 percent for 15 years, since the beginning of the
ECB.  So all in all, we cannot see deflation.  And we would
certainly consider that very seriously, because it’s a threat to
our capacity to pursue the objective of price stability, so if
we were to see deflation, we would have to sit down and think
deeply about that.  But we don’t see it.  By the way, some of these changes that I made - that I
hinted at are actually changes in relative prices.  So they’re
positive.  They mean that there is real adjustment taking place
in the countries, and you see this from the export levels which
have gone up in some of the stressed countries, showing exactly
that the adjustment is taking place.  On - on your second point, yeah, we have this mea culpa.
No, I don’t think we do - we do - in fact, one good thing - as
far as I can understand - one good thing about this - this IMF’s
paper is that the ECB is not being criticized.  So that’s one
thing.  There has been a statement by the commission incidentally
this morning which responds to - to this IMF paper.  The
statement of the commission makes several points, and I don’t
want to go back on these points.  But I would want to say - want
to say something different.  Now, let’s look at the present.  Greece has undertaken an
extraordinary adjustment.  There is ownership of this adjustment
by the government.  And it’s - really, we have to acknowledge
the progress that this country has undertaken, has achieved.
And if we look at a few years ago, it would have been
unthinkable.  So my suggestion is that of course we have to - if this
paper by the IMF, which I haven’t read, besides doing mea culpa,
identifies the reasons for mistakes that have been made and
other things, we’ll certainly have to take them into account in
the future.  But often, this mea culpa are, in fact, a - I would call a
mistake or projection of historical - a mistake of historical
projection, namely that you tend to judge things that happened
yesterday with today’s eyes.  We have - we can’t - we can’t
forget that four or five years ago, when the discussions about
the adjustment in Greece were taking place, the climate
situation in - in general was - was much, much worse.  You
remember the fear of contagion there and the very, very high
volatility.  That’s, in a sense, where fragmentation of the euro
area really started, began to start.  So it’s always very hard
to pass ex post judgments on what’s happened four years ago.  But having said that, more than going back with your - with
your - and looking backward, why don’t you look forward and just
take stock of the extraordinary progress and the positive thing
of a route that’s been undertaken?  Thank you.  STAFF:  Last question, El Pais, I think?  Yeah.  QUESTION:  Mr. Draghi, this is (inaudible) from El Pais.
You have talked about dramatism a few minutes ago, and I’m
afraid I will be a little bit dramatic, because I’m from a
country that has an unemployment rate of 27 percent - that is a
number of a great depression - and fiscal policy that is
contractionary.  And the monetary policy in Spain and also in
other countries are also contractionary, because new credit is
not available for little- and medium-sized companies.  Are you
telling Spaniards or Portuguese or Irish people, or even Italian
people, that the ECB can’t do anything else with - with
inflation nicely lower than 2 percent?  DRAGHI:  I’m sorry.  QUESTION:  Are you - are you telling us that you can’t do
anything else with inflation - with the inflation nicely lower
than 2 percent?  DRAGHI:  Well, I am not sure I get the point, but I think I
get.  The fact that inflation is low by itself doesn’t mean that
it’s bad.  With low inflation, you buy more stuff.  Second - and we say we don’t see deflation - that’s what we
have to fear.  We don’t see that yet.  Second, fiscal
consolidation is and remains unavoidable.  It should be clear I
think to everybody that you can’t have growth on an endless debt
creation.  Sooner or later, you’re going to be punished, and the
whole thing stops, and that’s exactly what’s happened after the
financial crisis in many countries.  Third, are there ways to make fiscal consolidation growth-friendly?  The answer is yes.  Fiscal consolidation in most
countries has taken the shape of increasing taxes.  And there
are many reasons for that, often because this was done under an
emergency situation or, unfortunately, because that’s the easier
thing to do - the easiest thing to do.  You raise taxes.  Now,
that’s not growth-friendly, and it’s not growth-friendly because
this happens in part of the world where taxes are already very,
very high.  So what is the - what would be a better way?  A better way
would be the difficult way, namely reduce unproductive
government expenditure and reduce taxes together.  But once you
- and, in a sense, I hinted at that before - once you’ve done
that, you also have to ask yourself why these countries were not
competitive, why they had to rely for growth in the good times -
so-called good times or (inaudible) times - why they had to rely
for growth on the protected sectors, on the sectors that were
sheltered, shielded from the international competition.  And then you ask yourself, what should it change?  And
these countries should change and should become more
competitive.  And then what adjustments are needed in order to
achieve this objective?  And - and the encouraging thing is that we see that most
countries, if not all of them, have done this process, are in
this process, which, of course, it’s very painful, very painful.
 And I always - I don’t think I miss - I miss one occasion, one
opportunity to say - to - to make sure that you all know how
aware of this we all are in the ECB.  Thank you.  STAFF:  OK.  Thank you very much.  Bye-bye.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  