-- Pemex Profit-Sharing Mulled in Energy Deal, Diplomat Says
-- B y   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-06-06T22:17:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/mexico-weighing-profit-sharing-in-oil-overhaul-ambassador-says.html
Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto’s administration is weighing profit-sharing contracts for
companies that invest in the country’s state-controlled oil
industry, said Eduardo Medina Mora, the ambassador to the U.S.  Allowing profit-sharing agreements is one of “several
routes that could be followed” in the energy overhaul proposal
that the government is drafting to submit to Congress in the
second half of the year, Medina Mora said today. Opening the
industry to more private investors would require changing the
constitution, he said.  Pena Nieto, who took office in December, said during the
last year’s election campaign that he would make opening the oil
industry to more private investment his “signature issue.”
He’s pursuing tax and energy overhauls to help wean the
government off oil sales that fund a third of the  federal budget 
and restore output at state-owned Petroleos Mexicanos after
Mexico’s biggest oil discovery, Cantarell, collapsed over the
past decade.  “We have to provide certainty to players, to economic
agents that would participate in this market,” Medina Mora said
in an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York. “It
would very much help to have a constitutional amendment to do
that.”  Production Declines  Mexican law currently prohibits Pemex, as Petroleos
Mexicanos is known, from profit-sharing agreements with other
companies for exploration, extraction and refining. Pemex, which
was founded after Mexico expropriated assets from U.K. and U.S.
companies and changed its constitution in 1938, is looking to
reverse a drop in production that reached an eighth consecutive
year in 2012.  Pena Nieto’s Institutional Revolutionary Party in March
voted to end its opposition to taxing food and medicine, giving
the president the option to propose such a strategy in a tax
initiative to raise revenue. He already signed a bill to improve
education by making teachers more accountable for performance,
and last year as president-elect helped pass a labor-system
overhaul designed to boost productivity.  The PRI, as the party is known, also worked with major
opposition parties earlier this year to approve an initiative
increasing competition in telecommunications and broadcasting
and strengthening government regulation of the industries.  Political Alliance  The Mexican government, which has sent its biggest
legislative proposals to lawmakers through the  Pact for Mexico 
alliance among the nation’s three biggest political parties,
will also work to reach consensus on the tax-system overhaul,
Medina Mora said.  “We are going to do our best to have political agreement
around these topics as we have had successfully on other very
difficult topics as well,” Medina Mora said. “Particular
timing and details have to be agreed” among the parties, he
said.  More than 6,200 people have been killed in drug-related
violence in  Mexico  since Pena Nieto took office Dec. 1,
according to  Milenio , a Mexico City-based newspaper. Medina Mora
said that the government’s efforts “are going to take more time
and be long-term driven, because they’re based on institutional
buildup,” and that the number of casualties is already
dropping.  Medina Mora said that while the Mexican army will stay on
the streets to help fight organized crime, a measure implemented
by Pena Nieto’s predecessor, Felipe Calderon, it is a
“temporary” situation.  Cartel Crackdown  Soldiers will continue to help in the crackdown on cartels
“as long as it’s needed in terms of recovering the physical and
therefore political space for the states to build up their own
forces,” Medina Mora said. “This is the objective.”  Mexico will get $240 million this fiscal year under the
 Merida Initiative , a $1.6 billion assistance package to fight
organized crime originally signed in 2008 by Calderon and then-U.S. President George W. Bush, Medina Mora said.  “We think the initiative is important not for the money
involved; it’s the commitment around a shared problem,” he
said.  Before becoming U.S. ambassador, Medina Mora was Mexico’s
envoy to the U.K. from 2009 through 2012 and the nation’s
Attorney General from 2006 to 2009 under Calderon. He also
served as director general for the National Center of
Investigation and Security, or CISEN, the Mexican civil
intelligence agency, according the Mexican Embassy  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  