-- Fannie Mae and the Hedge-Fund Bet
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2013-06-06T22:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/fannie-mae-and-the-hedge-fund-bet.html
For  years , the White House and many
lawmakers have been saying the government needs to put  Fannie
Mae  and  Freddie Mac  out of their misery. Yet they live on. And
now their  stock charts  look like  electrocardiograms .  Both companies’ common shares are up more than sevenfold
this year, in yet another sign the  capital markets  have gone
haywire. Sure, the outlook for the government-backed mortgage
financiers has been improving: Each  reported  billions of dollars
of  earnings  last quarter. But the beneficiary should be the
government, not the owners of the publicly traded shares, which
by all rights should be worthless.  By failing to wind down Fannie and Freddie, President
 Barack Obama ’s administration and Congress have allowed the
perception to fester that someday there might be a chance,
however unlikely or undeserved, that the government may do
something to compensate holders of the companies’ common and
junior preferred stock. In effect, the shares have taken on
characteristics of long-dated options.  With a simple  stock option , the longer its life span, the
more value it has. Even if the underlying stock is almost
worthless now, some development that is unforeseeable today
might come along and change that. The more time a person has to
exercise the option, the greater the chances are that such an
event will arise before the option expires.  Feeling Entitled  The government put Fannie and Freddie into conservatorship
almost five years ago, and deferred the hard work of creating a
new, viable housing-finance market. Now the act of keeping them
alive for so long has created a sense of  entitlement  among
shareholders who are demanding to be treated as nicely as those
who were bailed out at American International Group Inc.  Ask yourself this: Under normal circumstances, would you
buy stock in a financial institution that told you its assets
were worth about $177 billion less than its liabilities? That
number comes from Fannie’s own disclosures. Each quarter, Fannie
and Freddie publish fair-value balance sheets that show
estimates for what their assets and liabilities are worth on the
open market, as well as a breakdown of how much is attributable
to each class of equity holders.  In Fannie’s case, the net assets attributable to the
government, which holds senior preferred shares, were $117.1
billion as of March 31. As for common shareholders, Fannie had a
 $176.7 billion  deficit. Yet at $1.99 a share, Fannie has an
$11.5 billion stock-market value. Speculation springs eternal.  Freddie’s  fair-value disclosures  show similarly lopsided
figures. Equity attributable to the government was $72.3 billion
as of March 31. For common shareholders, the company had a
$124.5 billion deficit. Nonetheless, the company’s stock-market
value is $6.1 billion, or $1.89 a share. Forget trying to pick
promising companies with great businesses. The government, by
its inaction, is encouraging the public to take a flyer on
Fannie and Freddie.  Some investors hope Congress will write new laws that
create long-term value for stockholders. This is understandable.
The bailouts of 2008 and 2009 showed that crony capitalism is a
great way to make money if you can get in on the action. Buying
Fannie or Freddie shares is a bet that some well-connected  hedge
funds  and other moneyed interests can persuade the government to
do their bidding, never mind whether it serves the public good.  This week,  Bruce Berkowitz ’s Fairholme Capital Management
LLC issued a  news release  that said it owned junior preferred
shares of Fannie and Freddie with a $2.4 billion face value, and
that it is “ready to help with a restructuring.” Presumably
the plan entails making as much money for Berkowitz as possible.
Paulson & Co., the hedge fund run by billionaire  John Paulson ,
also has been  lobbying  for a privatization of Fannie and Freddie
to boost the value of preferred shares it bought. If they can
profit from an act of Congress, it boosts the odds that lower-ranking common shareholders might benefit, too.  New Dawn  Maybe it’s starting to dawn on the markets that such an
outcome would infuriate many Americans, in which case Congress
might choose not to cooperate. The companies’ common shares have
lost about half their value since peaking last week. Much of the
decline came after  Bloomberg News   reported  that two senators
were drafting a bill under which Fannie and Freddie would be
placed into receivership and liquidated.  There would be a chance, although only a remote one, that
public shareholders could see some money flow their way under
the legislation being written by Tennessee Republican Bob Corker
and Virginia Democrat  Mark Warner . Proceeds from the liquidation
would be paid first to the government, then to junior preferred
owners if there’s anything left and last to common shareholders.
Whatever the case, the decision of how to divide the proceeds
would be up to the Treasury secretary and a new federal agency
that would replace Fannie and Freddie.  Here’s a fair approach: The junior preferred and common
shares should be wiped out. They would be worthless already were
it not for taxpayers’ money. There was never an implicit
government guarantee for them, only the companies’ bonds. The
investors who bought the shares knew the risks. Let them crash.
It’s the right thing to do.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  