-- FastJet Says Tanzania Flights Turn Profitable as Sales Build Up
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-06-06T09:26:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/fastjet-says-tanzania-flights-turn-profitable-as-sales-build-up.html
FastJet Plc (FJET) , seeking to become the
first pan-African discount airline, said its initial operations
in Tanzania have turned profitable after sales surged 50 percent
in five months and that international services will start soon.  Revenue from the East African country reached $1.8 million
last month, with sales per passenger rising 62 percent, London-based FastJet said today in a statement, adding that the same
level of performance is being maintained into June.  FastJet said it’s seeking Tanzanian government approval to
serve other countries from  Dar es Salaam  shortly as flights
begun in November using Airbus SAS A319 planes more than cover
their direct operating costs. Operations in  Ghana  and  Angola 
flown by the Fly540 unit are also showing passenger increases.  “We have grown the business substantially in the face of
challenges,” Chief Executive Officer Ed Winter said. “Prospects
in each of our operations look very positive and our aim to
become  Africa ’s first low-cost carrier is well on its way.”  FastJet shares rose as much as 19 percent, the biggest gain
since a listing on  London ’s Alternative Investment Market on
July 2 last year, and were trading 17 percent higher at 0.79
pence as of 9:31 a.m. in London.  The stock has still lost 79 percent this year, valuing the
company at 19 million pounds ($29 million).  Services in Ghana flown by Fly540 -- purchased by FastJet
to gain operating rights -- boosted passenger numbers 52 percent
from a year earlier after web bookings showed a fivefold gain.  Angolan traffic surged 63 percent to an all-time high, and
more pilots are undergoing training there with a view to
boosting the scale of its operation “as soon as practical.”  FastJet plans to commence flights in  South Africa  in early
July via a local affiliate in which it will have a 25 percent
stake, according to a statement on May 31. The plan wasn’t
mentioned in today’s operational update.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  