-- Fed’s Raskin Seeks to Clarify Bank Rules by Hastening Basel III
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2013-06-06T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/fed-s-raskin-seeks-to-clarify-bank-rules-by-hastening-basel-iii.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin  said regulators must complete new international capital
rules because delays may be harming financial institutions by
leaving them unsure how to plan for the future.  “ Lending decisions and  funding plans today are shaped by
perceptions of business conditions in the future, and those
conditions include the details of the final regulatory capital
framework,” Raskin said today in prepared remarks for a speech
in Columbus, Ohio. “It seems obvious to me that uncertainty
over that framework is weighing on the balance sheets of banks
that will be affected by the rules.”  Raskin, who did not discuss the outlook for the economy or
monetary policy, called for regulators to hasten the
implementation of new capital rules known as Basel III, adopted
by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, and designed to
improve the quality and quantity of regulatory capital. Both the
European Union and the U.S. missed a January 2013 deadline to
begin phasing in the standards.  “While it is important to get it right, this goal must be
balanced with the costs imposed by delay,” Raskin said. “At a
moment when the economy finally seems to be gaining some
traction, I believe that finalizing a capital rule will minimize
uncertainty related to capital requirements as well as promote
safer and sounder banks.”  Bank Rules  The Basel committee brings together regulators from 27
nations, including the U.S., U.K. and  China , to coordinate rules
for banks.  U.S. banking regulators said in November that they were
delaying implementation of new capital rules because “many
industry participants have expressed concern” the rules would
go into effect before they understood or were able to adapt to
them, according to a release from the Federal Reserve, the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency.  “There is significant justification for both higher
levels, and higher quality, of capital,” Raskin said in the
speech at Ohio Bankers Day, sponsored by the Ohio state banking
regulator. “At the same time, however, for community banks in
particular, more and better capital should be achieved without
significantly increasing the complexity of capital
calculations.”  Raskin, a former state banking regulator who was appointed
to the central bank by President  Barack Obama  in 2010, praised
the benefits of community banks, calling them “vital and
competitive players in a highly diverse landscape for financial
services.”  Liquidity Rules  Global rule makers have also clashed with lenders over the
severity of the Basel III capital and liquidity rules, which
were set out in 2010 as part of an overhaul of international
banking regulation standards in the wake of the financial crisis
that followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  The pace of implementation of Basel III “has been adjusted
intentionally to support banks on the mend,” International
Monetary Fund Managing Director Christine Lagarde said in a
speech in  Frankfurt  in March, “but delays also reflect
difficulties in agreeing on the way forward, and pushback from
industry, averse to changing outmoded and dangerous business
models.”  Raskin, 52, said that capital and liquidity rules need not
be flawless, and that regulators will have to maintain vigilance
supervising the activities of financial institutions.  “We have to resist the temptation to believe we can create
a perfectly sensitive risk-based regime that gives the illusion
of safety,” said Raskin. “Such a regime would not be a
meaningful surrogate for effective on-site supervision, and the
effort to try to create an ever-more refined system would
distract us from some of the important policy questions that lie
ahead for our financial system.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   Mark Niquette in Columbus,  Ohio  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  