-- Fed’s Plosser Favors More Capital for Too-Big-to-Fail Risk
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   B r e n d a n   C o f f e y
-- 2013-06-06T18:51:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/fed-s-plosser-says-more-capital-needed-for-too-big-to-fail-risk.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  called for the largest financial
institutions to hold more capital to help prevent a repeat of
the recent financial crisis, and renewed his call for reducing
the pace of Fed stimulus.  “The most effective preventive measure to reduce the
probability that a financial firm will fail in the first place
is adequate capital,” Plosser said, according to prepared
remarks for a speech in Chestnut Hill near  Boston . “In
addition, higher  levels of capital  may permit regulatory or
market intervention before a firm actually fails, thereby making
bankruptcy or bailouts unnecessary.”  Plosser, did not discuss the outlook for the economy or
monetary policy in his prepared remarks. He told reporters after
his speech that recent comments from Fed officials show that
dialing back the central bank’s $85 billion a month pace of
asset purchases “is clearly on the table, either at the next
meeting or the subsequent meeting should the economy continue to
progress the way it is doing.”  The policy making  Federal Open Market Committee  next meets
on June 18-19. The Philadelphia Fed chief, who doesn’t vote on
FOMC policy this year, dissented twice from the committee’s
decisions in 2011, opposing moves to add monetary stimulus.  ‘Plays Out’  “Different people feel different about that, so we’ll have
to see how that plays out,” said Plosser, who did not support
the initiation of the third round of quantitative easing, known
as QE3, last year. On May 9 he told reporters in  New York  that
he would support reducing the pace of purchases as soon as
possible and repeated today that “my preference would be sooner
rather than later.”  Plosser said a strategy he’d favor would be “rather than
trying to push our balance sheet up at the rate of $85 billion a
month, maybe we could only push it up at the rate of 70, or 75,
or 65 that is still trying to provide some accommodation, but at
a slower pace and begin to sort of wean our way out.”  Plosser devoted his speech today to banking regulation and
called for a larger surcharge against systemically important
financial institutions. Current proposals for a surcharge of 1
percent to 2.5 percent against such institutions “may simply be
too low,” he said.  Capital Rules  The Philadelphia Fed chief was the second policy maker
today to weigh in on the need for strong  capital requirements .
Fed Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin  said that regulators should
hasten to implement the set of capital and liquidity rules known
as Basel III, adopted by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision , and designed to improve the quality and quantity of
regulatory capital.  “We should seek to increase capital buffers for financial
institutions and to simplify capital regulation by reducing or
eliminating the ever-increasing complexity of risk-weighted
capital calculations,” Plosser said in remarks at the Boston
College Carroll School of Management.  “Furthermore, if we are to end discretionary bailouts and
the associated moral hazard problems that they create, we should
seek more rule-like methods to resolve failing firms, such as a
new Chapter 14 bankruptcy mechanism,” he said, renewing his
call from a May 9 speech to enhance bankruptcy procedures for
large financial companies.  Limiting Risk  Fed officials and U.S. lawmakers are considering new ways
to limit the risk that the failure of a large bank will lead to
a taxpayer-funded rescue. The central bank is discussing ways to
limit the safety net and curtail balance-sheet expansion at the
largest banks, while senators from both parties are discussing
legislation that would tighten capital standards.  House Financial Services Committee Chairman  Jeb Hensarling ,
a Texas Republican, has said he favors a bankruptcy overhaul
over the Dodd-Frank Act’s resolution authority.  Senators  Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat, and Republican
 David Vitter  of  Louisiana  announced legislation in April that
would impose a 15 percent capital requirement for the largest
banks, saying Dodd-Frank won’t prevent future bailouts.  Plosser, 64, became president of the Philadelphia Fed in
August 2006. As a regional bank president, he is responsible for
carrying out the supervision of banks in his district. Fed
regulations are written by the board of governors in  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  