-- Fewest Hedge Funds Invest in Gold Since 2010 as Assets Decline
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-06-07T15:01:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/fewest-hedge-funds-invest-in-gold-since-2010-as-assets-fall-31-.html
The rout in gold that drove the metal
into a bear market cut the number of hedge funds investing in
bullion to the lowest level since 2010 as assets slumped 31
percent this year on losses and redemptions.  Performance declines tied to volatility and withdrawals led
either to closures or a shift in strategies, Farhan Mumtaz, an
analyst at EurekaHedge Pte Ltd., the Singapore-based fund-research company, said in an interview. The number of funds
investing in gold fell to 290 globally by May compared with 310
in December, and their assets shrank to $22.2 billion from $32.1
billion in the same period, he said on June 5. EurekaHedge has
tracked gold-investing hedge funds for 10 years, he said.  Gold sank into a bear market in April, after rising for 12
years, as an improving U.S. economy spurred a rally in equities
and undermined some investors’ faith in the metal as a store of
value. While the slump prompted a surge in coin and jewelry
buying, investors have withdrawn holdings from gold-backed
 exchange-traded products  at a record pace. Bullion may drop to
$1,100 in a year, Credit Suisse Group AG forecast last month.  “This is a story of an extremely popular trade that is
going very poorly,” said London-based Warren Rogers, a
portfolio manager at Duet Asset Management Ltd., which has been
betting on declines. “People forget that at the end of the day
gold is a commodity, and that this is how commodities behave.
They become crowded, they run out of steam and they fall
dramatically.”  Equities Rally  Spot gold traded at $1,385.18 an ounce today in  London ,
down 17 percent this year. The price, which rose as much as
sevenfold in the 12 years to 2012, fell 14 percent in two
sessions through April 15. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of
U.S. equities rallied to a record in May as the economic outlook
improved and European policy makers tried to stem the longest
recession in the region’s history.  Bullion dropped in seven of the past eight months in part
on speculation that the U.S. Federal Reserve may taper stimulus.
Fed Bank of Dallas President Richard Fisher and Fed Bank of
Kansas City President Esther George separately called for a
reduction in the central bank’s debt-buying this week.  Investors sold 495 metric tons from ETPs valued at about
$22 billion this year through to yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Holdings in the  SPDR Gold Trust (GLD) , the
biggest such ETP, plunged 25 percent. Gold demand contracted 13
percent in the first quarter to a three-year low, according to
the London-based World Gold Council.  Biggest Investor  John Paulson, the top investor in the SPDR Gold Trust,
maintained a stake of 21.8 million shares in the first quarter,
a filing showed May 15. The billionaire is standing by the metal
even after his Gold Fund saw declines this year, two people
familiar with the matter said last month.  Gold remains the best store of value in an uncertain global
economy, Elliott Management Corp. told clients in April even as
the hedge-fund firm founded by Paul Singer lost money on its
bullion position this year. Elliott, based in New York, said
that gold will rebound as governments haven’t found a real
solution to reduce the debt they have accumulated.  Not all investors are fleeing gold, said Ben Davies, co-founder of Hinde Capital Ltd. and manager of the Hinde Gold Fund
in London, which runs a so-called long-only fund and allocates
95 percent of its $60 million assets to physical bullion. Long
bets refer to wagers on gains.  “We did see redemptions but those are replaced at this
level,” said Davies, whose fund started in 2007. “There are
people who understand gold fundamentals, given the shortage of
physical metal in London.” Still, his company’s assets dropped
from about $100 million last year.  Central Banks  While investors sold ETP holdings, central banks have
bought bullion for their reserves. Nations from  Brazil  to  Russia 
added 534.6 tons last year, the most since 1964, and may buy 450
to 550 tons this year, the World Gold Council forecast.  Gold will drop as inflation fails to accelerate and risks
to the global economy subside, Ric Deverell, head of commodities
research at Credit Suisse, said last month. Nouriel Roubini,
professor of economics and international business at New York
University, has forecast a drop toward $1,000 by 2015.  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi vowed last
July to do “whatever it takes” to defend the euro, defusing
speculation that the currency union may fragment. Last month,
the ECB reduced borrowing costs to a record low.  “There was an accumulation of very big positions by
speculators and people realized that, because of what Draghi has
said, the euro will not collapse, the U.S. is doing whatever it
can to reduce unemployment,” said Gabriel Garcin, a portfolio
manager Europanel Research & Alternative Asset Management in
Paris, which manages $550 million. “If you are buying it for
safe-haven reasons, then you should be selling now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  