-- Flamengo Signs Up CEOs to Save Brazil’s No. 1 Soccer Debtor
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-06-06T14:17:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/flamengo-signs-up-ceos-to-rescue-brazil-s-biggest-soccer-debtor.html
Painted on a whitewashed wall at its
Rio de Janeiro home is Flamengo’s boast that it’s “the most
loved club in the world.” The soccer team is counting on that
affection to help rescue it from the taxman.  While the most popular in  Brazil , it’s also the most
indebted. Flamengo owes creditors 750 million reais ($351
million), two-thirds of which is in unpaid taxes, according to
Eduardo Bandeira de Mello, the club’s president. Prominent fans
including  Carlos Langoni , a former head of the central bank, and
top executives from Brazilian companies have joined the club’s
board to fix its finances by cutting debt and are now raising
money through sponsorships and membership fees.  “We knew the numbers were going to be bad but nobody knew
exactly how bad they were going to be,” Bandeira de Mello, 60,
an economist voted into the job in December, said in an
interview last month.  For a country that will host the showpiece World Cup next
year and the Olympics in 2016, the state of clubs like Flamengo
is the flipside of the glitz. A self-proclaimed 40 million-strong fan-base, and rising television and marketing money
during a boom that quadrupled the Brazilian economy over a
decade, have failed to reverse years of financial mismanagement.  “In Brazilian football there’s no accountability,” said
Amir Somoggi, a consultant to several top Brazilian teams.
“Right now we’ve had 10 or 20 years of bad management. Maybe we
need to wait 10 or 20 years for the situation to change.”  Maracana Stadium  The image abroad of Brazilian soccer centers around the
canary yellow shirts of the national team made famous by Pele as
well as Zico and Ronaldinho, who both had spells at Flamengo. At
home, it’s the clubs that occupy more attention.  Founded in 1895 as a rowing club called Clube de Regatas do
Flamengo, the team with red and black hooped shirts will return
to play games in the revamped 78,000-seat Maracana stadium after
this month’s Confederations Cup.  The iconic arena will host the 2014 World Cup final after
being shut for three years while undergoing a $500 million
refit. The stadium reopened for Brazil to draw 2-2 with England
on June 2 after missing two deadlines.  “Flamengo is my passion, my life,” said Jonas Freitas
Moura, 51, who wears the team’s shirt under his taxi-driver
uniform and everyday plays audio recordings of the team’s most
memorable goals in his cab. Somoggi likened the club’s appeal in
Brazil, a country of almost 200 million people, to that enjoyed
in  Europe  and worldwide by  Manchester United , Real Madrid and
Champions League winner  Bayern Munich .  Trophy Drought  Emulating the success of those European clubs has been
tougher. A team led by striker Zico, a bronze bust of whom
adorns the club’s main entrance, dominated Brazilian soccer in
the late 1970s and early 1980s, including winning three national
championships between 1980 and 1983.  Since then, the trophies have been harder to come by while
debt mounted. A Brazilian Cup win in 2006 was followed three
years later by the first league title since 1992.  Flamengo is without a win after the opening four rounds of
the Brazilian championship. Last night it lost 1-0 to Nautico,
which had been last in the 20-team standings prior to the game.  The start cost Jorginho his job as manager. The coach, who
joined earlier this year, was fired after the loss.  Clubs in Brazil have unpaid debts of about 3 billion reais,
according to the Ministry of Sport in Brasilia. It said in an e-mailed statement on May 28 that it’s proposing a bill that would
help clubs renegotiate their borrowings in return for
restructuring the way teams are managed.  “It is not about forgiveness or amnesty,” the ministry
said, adding that clubs failing to meet agreed terms could be
hit with points deductions or relegation in future.  Debt Burden  Under an agreement with Brazil’s federal revenue office,
almost 60 percent of Flamengo’s income will be used to pay off
the tax debt for the next three years, before a more manageable
schedule is established and the club “will be able to breathe
again,” Bandeira de Mello said.  Such debt isn’t an affliction particular to Brazilian
soccer.  UEFA , the sport’s governing body in Europe, reacted to
concerns by introducing regulations that seek to make clubs keep
spending within their means. Clubs that fail to meet the rules
face expulsion from the elite  Champions League .  Losses of teams in the continent’s top championships
totaled 1.68 billion euros ($2.2 billion) in 2011, UEFA said.
Those in  Spain ’s top two divisions owed 752 million euros in
unpaid tax as of Jan. 1, 2012, the Spanish tax agency said.  Flamengo’s new management has already struck three major
sponsorship agreements since taking office and most of the money
is going straight out again to repay creditors.  The first installment of a new, 35 million reais-per-season
kit deal with  Adidas AG (ADS)  didn’t touch the club’s bank account,
the president said.  Shirt Sponsors  Another board member, Luiz Eduardo Baptista, president of
cable TV operator Sky Brasil, said the new board paid off 68
million reais of debt this year before state-owned bank Caixa
Economica Federal signed a 25 million-reais shirt sponsorship
agreement. French carmaker  Peugeot SA (UG)  is paying another 10
million reais a year to have its logo on the back of the shirt.  As well as Baptista, 50, and Langoni, 68, who ran the
central bank from 1980 to 1983, the board includes other members
of Rio’s business world, including Rodolfo Landim, 55, former
CEO of billionaire  Eike Batista ’s flagship oil producer OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA.  “If we were not there, Flamengo would have to close the
door because things were unbearable,” said Bandeira de Mello,
an executive for 30 years with Brazil’s national development
bank. “So why not give some of our reputation, our time, our
credibility to Flamengo because is it’s our passion? We were
tired of suffering.”  Fan Appeal  They are counting on the fervor the team creates among
supporters to help fix the finances.  Flamengo started a membership system this year, asking for
a monthly contribution ranging from 39 reais to 200 reais in
return for priority access to tickets and discounts on
merchandise. In the first month, 18,000 people signed up,
according to Bandeira de Mello.  Last year, Flamengo ranked seventh among Brazil’s soccer
clubs by sales, according to Somoggi. It generated 146 million
reais less than the highest earner, Sao Paulo-based Corinthians,
which made 358.5 million reais in 2012, he said.  Making matters worse was the debt that ballooned through a
combination of unpaid taxes, loans and salaries to players
including Ronaldinho. The relationship with the 2002  World Cup 
winner, one of soccer’s most-recognizable athletes, soured
within a year of his January 2011 arrival when Flamengo was
unable to meet the costs of keeping him.  Tax Issues  Yet the tax bill is Flamengo’s biggest liability and a
source of embarrassment, Bandeira de Mello said. He said tax
contributions deducted from salaries were redirected into the
club’s accounts by successive managements to boost  cash flow .
“That’s robbery,” he said.  It’s unclear why Brazilian clubs were allowed to build up
such a debt of unpaid taxes.  “It’s a mix of irresponsibility from the club side and a
lack of political will of the authorities,” Baptista said. “In
Brazil, politicians know football is important to win elections.
But it’s ridiculous. It’s not so important that these teams
shouldn’t pay their taxes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  