-- Florida, U.S. Crack Down on Timeshare Fraud
-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 2013-06-06T20:57:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/florida-prosecutors-say-191-timeshare-cases-filed-in-crackdown.html
U.S. and Florida officials said they
filed almost 200 civil and criminal cases for timeshare resale
frauds over the past two years as scams in the business have
increased, with defendants now more likely to have violent and
drug-related backgrounds.  Florida this year sued nine timeshare resale companies
based in the state for fraudulent activity, and has requested
temporary restraining orders against six of them, according to
Miami U.S. Attorney Wifredo Ferrer and Florida Attorney General
 Pam Bondi , who announced the actions at a press conference
today in Miami.  “We cannot allow our elderly and vulnerable real property
owners to continue to be the target of fraud schemes,” Ferrer
said in a statement. These victims “looked to sell their units
to help make ends meet or pay other bills. Instead, they were
defrauded out of more than $14 million in total.”  Some 83 civil cases have been filed in 28 states and more
than 184 people are facing criminal charges in federal and state
court. In the timeshare resale cases, “boiler room” operations
were set up to call timeshare owners to sell the properties for
a “deposit” of hundreds and sometimes thousands of dollars.  ‘Victimizing People’  “The majority of the folks who have been doing this are
from  Florida  and are victimizing people from outside states,”
Ferrer said. “The white collar nature of these scams seem to be
a thing of the past,” he said, noting many of the defendants
had violent and drug-related criminal records.  Timeshares give owners the right to use a property for a
set period of time each year, typically a week. Fractional
ownership plans usually offer longer stays at a property and
tend to include more services and amenities, according to the
American Resort Development Association, or ARDA, a Washington-based trade group.  Marriott International Inc., owner of the JW Marriott and
Ritz-Carlton brands, spun off its timeshare unit in 2011 as the
business had been slow to recover from a decline in  consumer
spending .  Timeshare fraud “involves telemarketing companies that
market their advertising services to timeshare owners interested
in selling or renting their timeshare interests,” Florida
officials said. “Many of these companies charge exorbitant fees
and perform few services.”  Legislation  The Florida Legislature in 2012 passed the Timeshare Resale
Accountability Act requiring timeshare resellers to provide
consumers with specific disclosures before providing services
and also bars timeshare resellers from taking advance fees from
consumers, according to the statement. The year following the
law’s enactment, the number of timeshare resale fraud complaints
received by Bondi’s office fell by more than 57 percent, she
said.  “Timeshare resale scammers have cheated tens of thousands
of timeshare owners out of tens of millions of dollars by
convincing them to pay for a false promise,” said Charles Harwood, acting director of the Federal Trade Commission’s
Bureau of Consumer Protection.  Spiking Scams  Harwood said that, beginning in 2009, timeshare scams began
spiking, with 2011 being the worst year. The number of
complaints his office received dropped slightly in 2012.  Bondi said in a statement that the nine companies sued as
part of the Florida initiative include International Timeshare
Exchange LLC, Travel Buy Owner Inc., Premium Marketing Solutions
Inc., Universal Timeshare Sales Associates, Resort Property
Depot, Resort Solution Trust, BML Marketing Company Inc.,  A1
Marketing Unlimited and Access Travel Network. Calls to the
companies for comment either weren’t immediately returned,
messages couldn’t be left or numbers were disconnected.  Tracy Casaceli, of Jupiter, Florida, said at the press
conference that she fell for a timeshare scam twice before
reporting the third offer to sell her timeshare to the FTC.  “Like a lot of individuals, I was ready to get rid of my
timeshare when they called,” she said. The first time she was
scammed, the phone number of the company to which she paid $600
was disconnected just two months later, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susannah Nesmith in Miami
at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  