-- French Fracking Ban Should Be Eased to Assess Shale Reserves
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-06-06T09:42:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/french-fracking-ban-should-be-eased-to-assess-shale-reserves.html
France ’s ban on hydraulic fracturing
should be eased to estimate the size of its shale oil and gas
reserves, according to a parliamentary report.  Dozens of exploration wells could be drilled in regions
where seismic data has indicated promising reserves, a report by
a French parliamentary commission showed.  “We have to estimate our reserves more precisely,” Deputy
Christian Bataille told a press conference today. Shale oil in
the Paris Basin appears “promising” while data on shale gas in
southwestern France is outdated, he said.  The recommendations would require changes to France’s 2011
fracking ban implemented by former President  Nicolas Sarkozy .
His successor  Francois Hollande  has said he supports the ban.
The country’s business lobbies have stepped up a campaign in
recent months in favor of shale energy development, which
commonly uses fracking. They argue it would help reverse
France’s industrial decline, raise competitiveness through
cheaper energy supplies and lower unemployment.  “Everything rests in the way the drilling is carried
out,” Senator Jean-Claude Lenoir said at today’s press
conference. “We have many regulations about industrial sites
that could apply” to avoid enviromental damage.  Publication of the report comes a day after Energy Minister
Delphine Batho rejected any move to relax the ban, citing
“considerable” environmental damage in the U.S. caused by the
method.  Earthquakes, aquifer pollution, heavy metal contamination,
increased truck traffic and damage to the countryside are
consequences of fracking, the minister said in a radio debate.  Environmental Dumping  “The U.S. has invented environmental dumping,” Batho
said. “Gas prices in the U.S. don’t take into account the cost
of environmental damage that future generations will have to
pay.”  France and  Poland  have the greatest potential for
recoverable shale gas in  Europe , the  International Energy Agency 
has said. The French anti-fracking law would allow some forms of
drilling for research purposes under highly controlled
conditions, something the government has so far blocked.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  