-- Gabon to Seize Field as Dispute With Sinopec Unit Worsens
-- B y   A n t o i n e   L a w s o n   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a a s
-- 2013-06-06T11:45:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/gabonese-judges-to-arbitrate-over-addax-field-seizure.html
Gabon’s oil ministry plans to seize
an oil field from China Petrochemical Corp.’s Addax Petroleum as
a dispute over production contracts worsens.  Gabonese Oil Minister Etienne Ngoubou will not renew
Addax’s license at he Tsiengui field because it had breached the
law, a ministry official said today. Gabon already seized
Addax’s Obangue field. Two other companies face similar actions,
the official said, declining to name them.  Addax believes the government is in breach of contract over
the Obangue takeover in January, Gastien Matsanhanga, an  Addax
representative in Gabon, said by phone yesterday. Three judges
have been appointed to arbitrate on the dispute, he said.  Workers at Obangue are unhappy with the deterioration in
working conditions since the seizure, Michael Wora, a technician
at the site said in an interview. Permanent contracts have not
been given to the workers as promised by the oil minister, he
said.  “The production of Obangue dropped since January 2013 from
12,000 barrels a day to less than 6,000 barrels,” he said.
“Communities living around Obangue lost their benefits on
health care, transportation. The majority of employees wish to
leave the Gabon Oil Company and work with Addax.”  The Financial Times reported the plans to seize fields
earlier, citing Ngoubou, the oil minister.  Four calls to the office number of Lv Dapeng, spokesman for
China Petrochemical, or Sinopec Group, went unanswered.  “When some of these assets were acquired,  oil prices  were
low, and now prices are higher,” Laban Yu, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Jefferies Group, said by phone today. “Maybe the
government is hoping to get a larger share of profits. These are
a zit compared to the rest of Sinopec’s assets.”  Addax, based in Geneva, produced 18,100 barrels a day from
the area that includes Tsiengui in 2008, the last year for which
data is available. China Petroleum and Chemical Corp., the
listed unit of Sinopec Group, produced 328 million barrels of
crude oil last year.  Gabon Oil Co. was created by the government in June 2011 to
manage state shares in oil assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Antoine Lawson in Libreville at 
 ankolo@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Haas in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  