-- Gap Rises After Same-Store Sales Beat Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-06-07T20:34:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/gap-rises-in-late-trading-after-same-store-sales-beat-estimates.html
Gap Inc. (GPS)  touched the highest price in
13 years after the largest U.S. specialty apparel retailer
reported same-store sales for May that were higher than analysts
estimated.  Gap  rose  2.7 percent to $42.09 at the close in  New York 
after increasing to $42.40, the highest since April 2000. The
San Francisco-based company’s shares have advanced 36 percent
this year through today, the  best performance  for an apparel
company in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Retailing Index.  Total comparable sales rose 7 percent last month, according
to a statement from Gap yesterday. Analysts had projected 3.7
percent, on average, according to researcher Retail Metrics Inc.  “We are pleased with the positive customer response to
summer product across our brands and the continued momentum in
the business,”  Glenn Murphy , the retailer’s chairman and chief
executive officer, said in the statement.  Same-store sales at the Banana Republic brand were little
changed, missing the estimate for a gain of 0.7 percent from
Retail Metrics. The Gap brand rose 8 percent, compared with an
estimated 3.8 percent advance. The Old Navy brand increased 9
percent, topping an estimate for a 5.4 percent jump.  Same-store sales rose last month for nine of the 10
companies tracked by Swampscott, Massachusetts-based Retail
Metrics.  L Brands Inc. (LTD)  sales climbed 3 percent, beating the 2.9
percent estimate. Sales at the company’s Victoria’s Secret brand
were up 4 percent, while the Bath & Body Works brand gained 3
percent.  Buckle Inc. (BKE)  same-store sales rose 4.1 percent in May,
compared with a 3.4 percent estimated gain.  Zumiez Inc. (ZUMZ) , the
only company to fall short of estimates, said comparable-store
sales rose 1.1 percent, below the average estimate of 2.9
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  