-- European Bonds Slide as Draghi Says Region’s Economy to Recover
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-06-06T15:50:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/german-bunds-slide-as-draghi-says-policy-measures-kept-on-shelf.html
Euro-area government bonds slid as
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said the region’s
economy will return to growth by the end of the year, reducing
the need for additional stimulus.  Germany ’s two-year note yields climbed to the  highest  since
February while Italian, Spanish and Portuguese  10-year (GBTPGR10)  rates
jumped the most in three months.  Portugal (GSPT10YR) ’s 10-year yield
climbed above 6 percent for the first time in six weeks. Draghi
said the ECB kept additional stimulus measures, including
negative deposit rates, “on the shelf” at today’s meeting.
Euribor futures contracts declined as investors trimmed bets on
lower inter-bank borrowing costs.  “Draghi seems to be more sanguine about the economic
outlook next year than the market has anticipated,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist at RIA Capital Markets
Ltd. in Edinburgh. “Yields are rising because the market is
paring back on their bets that the ECB will cut interest rates
again in the near future.”  Germany’s  two-year yield  rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 0.14 percent as of 4:48 p.m. London time
after reaching 0.165 percent, the highest since Feb. 22. The
zero percent security due in June 2015 fell 0.08, or 80 euro
cents per 1,000-euro ($1,320) face amount, to 99.715. The
nation’s 10-year yield added two basis points to 1.53 percent.  Italy ’s 10-year yield climbed 25 basis points to 4.39
percent, the biggest intraday increase since Feb. 26, while the
rate on similar-maturity  Spanish (GSPG10YR)  debt jumped 26 basis points to
4.70 percent, also the most since Feb. 26.  ‘Should Stabilize’  “Euro-area economic activity should stabilize and recover
in the course of the year albeit at a subdued pace,” Draghi
told reporters in  Frankfurt  today. “We will monitor very
closely all incoming developments and we stand ready to act.”  Draghi spoke after the ECB’s Governing Council left its
 main refinancing rate  at 0.5 percent after reducing it by a
quarter point last month. The decision was predicted by 57 of
the 59 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey . The ECB held its
 deposit rate  at zero and its marginal lending rate at 1 percent.  “The results of today’s meeting supports our view that the
ECB is willing to see the impact of the recent rate cut and
other policies and initiatives,” Scott Thiel, London-based
deputy chief investment officer of fundamental fixed income at
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , wrote in an e-mailed statement. “We disagreed
with mid-May market pricing of the introduction of a negative
deposit rate.”  Yields Climb  Portugal ’s 10-year bond yield climbed as much as 30 basis
points to 6.09 percent, the highest since April 19.  Investors also sold bonds in  emerging markets . Hungary’s
10-year yields rose to 5.92 percent, the highest on a closing
basis since April 8 as traders pared bets the nation’s central
bank will continue to lower borrowing costs after 10 consecutive
months of easing. Bond yields also increased in  Poland ,  Russia 
and South Africa.  The ECB lowered its forecast for the euro area’s economy to
show contraction of 0.6 percent this year from an estimate of
minus 0.5 percent made in March. Officials raised their
projection for next year to 1.1 percent from 1 percent.  The ECB cut its 2013 inflation forecast to 1.4 percent from
1.6 percent. The 2014 estimate was unchanged at 1.3 percent.  “There is no smoking gun here for a move any time soon,”
 Harvinder Sian , a senior fixed-income strategist at  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  in London, wrote in a note to clients.
“Data flow is the most important signal for the ECB and the
markets.”  Euribor Futures  The implied yield on the Euribor futures contract expiring
in December rose five basis points to 0.28 percent.  HSBC Holdings Plc said the rise in German bond yields is
offering an opportunity to buy as 10-year rates will fall to 1.2
percent later this year. A report today showed Germany’s factory
orders fell more than economists predicted in April.  “Growth remains weak in many of the largest economies and
recovery hopes may be in vain,” wrote  Steven Major , global head
of fixed-income research at HSBC in London. “Back at the top of
their recent range, core bonds are at attractive entry levels.”  German securities  handed investors a loss of 0.7 percent
this year through yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond
Indexes. Spanish bonds returned 6.5 percent, Italian securities
earned 3.9 percent, and Portuguese bonds gained 7.1 percent.  Volatility on Portuguese securities was the highest in
euro-area markets today followed by those of Spain and Italy,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Goodman in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in  London  at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  