-- German Factory Orders Fall; Economy Struggles to Recover
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-06-06T10:48:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/german-factory-orders-fall-as-economy-struggles-to-recover-1-.html
German factory  orders (GRIORTMM)  fell more than
economists predicted in April as  Europe ’s largest economy
struggled to gain strength.  Orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation,
decreased 2.3 percent from March, when they increased a revised
2.3 percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today.
Economists forecast a 1 percent drop, according to the median of
39 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey . In the year, workday-adjusted orders fell 0.4 percent.  The  European Central Bank  is expected by economists to
lower its economic outlook when it meets in Frankfurt today, a
month after cutting  interest rates  to help the euro region out
of its longest-ever recession. At the same time, German business
confidence rose in May for the first time since February, and
consumers’ optimism is set to climb to the highest since 2007 in
June, as higher wages boost spending power.  “A decline was to be expected after significant increases
in the previous months,” said Gerd Hassel, an economist at BHF-Bank AG in  Frankfurt . “Therefore, it’s not a sign of an
economic slump but rather of the usual volatility. German growth
should pick up in the second quarter.”  The German economy grew only 0.1 percent in the first three
months of the year, less than economists anticipated. The
Bundesbank will release new forecasts tomorrow. In December, the
Frankfurt-based central bank predicted growth of 0.4 percent
this year and 1.9 percent for 2014.  Orders Slump  The euro was little changed after the report and traded at
$1.3114 at 12:47 p.m. in Frankfurt. The Stoxx Europe 600 index
rose to 296.03, up 0.3 percent on the day.  Domestic orders declined 3.2 percent in April, while
foreign demand dropped 1.5 percent, with orders from the euro
area down 3.6 percent, today’s report showed. Basic-goods orders
fell 1.9 percent from March, while investment-goods orders
slumped 3.6 percent. At the same time, demand for  consumer goods 
surged 7.5 percent in April, with orders from the euro area
jumping 14.8 percent.  The German Economy Ministry said April orders were roughly
in line with the average demand in the first quarter. Adjusted
for big-ticket items, orders rose every month this year, it
said.  “That speaks for the fact that the German industry is in
the process of overcoming its weak phase,” the ministry said.  More Optimistic  “Orders in February and March were very strong due to bulk
orders so a drop is more like a statistical correction,” Ulrike Rondorf, an economist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt, said
before today’s report. “Confidence indicators like Ifo are
however showing that companies are becoming more optimistic and
that the ECB’s expansive monetary policy should reflect in
greater willingness to invest.”  The ECB will keep its benchmark interest rate on hold when
it meets today, according to the median of 59 economists in a
Bloomberg News  survey . That decision is due at 1:45 p.m. in
Frankfurt.  Around the world today, U.K. house prices rose for a fourth
month in May as government measures to help the  property market 
boosted demand, according to Halifax, the mortgage unit of
Lloyds Banking Group Plc. In the U.S., initial jobless claims
probably rose 345,000, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
economists.  Domestic Demand  Audi AG (NSU) , the world’s second-largest maker of luxury cars,
said on May 16 that high-performance cars like the RS5, as well
as the new version of the A3 compact, will help propel sales
this year amid intensifying economic headwinds.  After increasing in April, German new car sales resumed a
decline in May, the German Federal Motor Vehicle Office, or KBA,
said on June 4. The European auto market is contracting for a
sixth consecutive year to a two-decade low amid a recession in
the region that’s lasted at least six quarters.  “Orders are being supported by strong domestic consumption
and that should continue,” said Stefan Kipar, an economist at
 Bayerische Landesbank  in Munich. “In terms of the European
economy I think we have reached the bottom and should see a
recovery in the course of the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  