-- Ghana’s Ex-Airport Security Chief Caught in Heroin Sting
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2013-06-06T19:59:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/ghana-s-ex-airport-security-chief-caught-in-heroin-sting.html
A former security official at Ghana’s
main international airport faces a possible life sentence after
federal prosecutors in New York charged him with using his
position to conspire to import heroin into the U.S.  Solomon Adelaquaye, 48, arranged to help a courier move a
kilogram (2.2 pounds) of the drug through the airport in Accra
in exchange for $10,000, according to an indictment unsealed
this month in  Manhattan  federal court. Prosecutors described
Adelaquaye as “responsible for security” at the airport.  At a meeting with Adelaquaye in his office at the airport
in February 2012, the courier said the heroin was hidden in a
laptop computer, according to the indictment. Adelaquaye said to
give the computer to his associate while the courier gave
Adelaquaye $6,000 in cash and agreed to pay him $4,000 later,
according to prosecutors. The courier got the laptop back after
passing through airport security, prosecutors said.  In reality, the purported courier and a person posing as a
buyer were working undercover for the U.S. Drug Enforcement
Administration, and their meetings with Adelaquaye were
recorded. Adelaquaye was arrested last month in New York and
brought before a federal magistrate in Manhattan along with two
Nigerian nationals. A fourth suspect was arrested in Colombia.  ‘Safe Passage’  “These alleged narco-traffickers assumed they had secured
safe passage for their heroin from West Africa to the United
States by paying off an airport insider, but unbeknownst to
them, the people on the other side of their transaction were law
enforcement insiders working for the DEA,” Manhattan U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara said in a June 3 statement.  Sabrina Shroff, a lawyer with the Federal Defender’s office
in New York who represented Adelaquaye in court, had no
immediate comment on the case.  The Ghanaian government on June 3 ordered state-run Ghana
Airport Co. to immediately suspend its contract with Sohin
Security Co., according to a  statement  on the Accra-based office
of the presidency’s website.  The other three suspects charged are Samuel Antonio Pinedo-Rueda, a 72-year-old Colombian, and Frank Muodum, 44, and
Celestine Ofor Orjinweke, 53, both Nigerian nationals. Pinedo-Rueda is awaiting extradition from Colombia, the DEA said.  The amount of drug trafficking through West Africa to South
Africa and Europe has been declining steadily to about 21 tons
in 2009 from a peak of as much as 47 tons in 2007, according to
the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime.  The smuggling of the single kilogram was to have been the
precursor to a much larger heroin operation, according to
prosecutors and the DEA. Adelaquaye, Muodum and Orjinweke met
last month with one of the undercover agents to discuss a plan
to supply the agent with heroin in exchange for 3,000 kilograms
of cocaine worth $75 million, according to the indictment.  Those meetings were also recorded, prosecutors said.  The case is U.S. v. Pinedo-Rueda, 12-cr-00286, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Pauline Bax in Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  