-- Ghana to Expel 166 Chinese for Illegal Gold Mining
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s   a n d   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2013-06-06T14:53:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/ghana-to-expel-166-chinese-for-illegal-gold-mining.html
Ghana  plans to expel 166 Chinese
nationals arrested for illegal gold mining and prostitution,
while a county in China warned residents against going to the
West African country to prospect for the metal.  Authorities in Ghana detained the suspects, some holding
expired residential permits, between June 1 and yesterday in the
country’s main gold-producing regions, Francis Palmdeti, head of
public affairs for the Immigration Service, said in a phone
interview.  “Repatriation will start once the migrants or the Chinese
embassy pays for transportation costs,” Palmdeti said.  The arrests threaten to heighten tensions as Ghana seeks
investment in natural resources. The Shanglin county government
in southwest Guangxi province today issued a warning against
gold mining in Ghana after people who hailed from the area were
identified as among those arrested. Shanglin will help the
miners return home by paying for their plane tickets, Xinhua
News Agency reported.  In August 2011, Ghana approved a $3 billion loan, the
biggest in the country’s history, from the  China  Development
Bank for projects including a natural-gas plant.  “Ghana should administer their own loopholes and the
Chinese government should do the same,” He Wenping, director of
the African Research Section at the Chinese Academy of Social
Sciences in Beijing, said by phone. “When something happens, it
should make them understand that they can’t just go anywhere
that has gold because these countries’ laws are being carried
out more strictly.”  Drinking Water  The influx of illegal Chinese miners has angered Ghanaian
farming communities who say their land and sources of drinking
water are threatened by their activities. The Chinese use high-end industrial machinery including excavators to dig while
Ghanaian small-scale miners mostly use shovels and pickaxes.  The Chinese are welcome as long as they “come through the
regulatory framework,” Isaac Kojo Abraham, a senior public
relations officer at Ghana’s Minerals Commission, said by phone.
“If they come to do illegal mining, the nation loses the fees
and taxes they would have paid for their activities. The
negative environmental and social impact also becomes very
high.”  President John Dramani Mahama said last month he had set up
a task force to “bring sanity into the mining sector including
my pledge to ensure that small-scale mining is reserved for
Ghanaians as stated by the law.”  Local Laws  Mahama said authorities would seize equipment of miners
without valid permits, arrest and prosecute illegal miners, and
revoke mining licenses of Ghanaians who are illegally involved
foreigners in their operations.  In Ghana’s Ashanti region, 124 Chinese were detained in a
hotel raid on June 2, the Chinese embassy said in a statement on
its  website . China is paying “close attention” to the
situation and advises its nationals to abide by local laws,
Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said at a briefing in
Beijing today.  About 20,000 to 30,000 Chinese are involved in mining in
Ghana, he wrote in an editorial in the Global Times earlier
today. Shanglin county said about 12,000 people from the county
have engaged in gold mining in Ghana since a gold rush to the
country started in 2006, according to Xinhua.  Mainland Chinese buyers have flocked to jewelry shops to
buy gold this year after prices plunged by the most in three
decades.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7548 or
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  