-- Goldman Sees Bull Run Over as Returns Trail Stocks: Commodities
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r ,   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l   a n d   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2013-06-06T21:21:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/goldman-sees-bull-run-over-as-returns-trail-stocks-commodities.html
Commodities are trailing equities for
the longest stretch in almost 15 years as Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and Citigroup Inc. predict the end of the decade-long  bull
market  even as the global economy expands.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities
lagged behind the MSCI All-Country World Index for six months,
the longest stretch since 1998. Hedge funds cut combined bullish
 bets  across 18 U.S. raw-material futures by 51 percent from a
16-month high in September and are bearish on six of them.
Commodities will return 1.6 percent in a year as losses in
agriculture and precious metals diminish gains from energy and
industrial metals, Goldman said last month.  Investors pulled a record $23.3 billion from commodity
funds this year as global equities attracted $182 billion,
according to EPFR Global, which tracks money flows. Prices that
more than doubled in 10 years spurred expansions at mines, farms
and oil fields. Gluts are emerging as the  International Monetary
Fund  predicts global growth of 3.3 percent this year, from 3.2
percent in 2012. The group cut last week its estimates for
 China , the top consumer of metals, grains and energy.  “There are times when you probably should be avoiding
commodities, and I think this is one of them,” said  John Stephenson , who helps oversee about C$2.7 billion ($2.61
billion) at First Asset Investment Management Inc. in Toronto.
“Anytime you have a whole lot of inventory and visible supply,
prices are going to be under pressure. The real issue for
commodities is the source of demand, China, is weak.”  Natural Gas  The S&P GSCI dropped 2.8 percent this year, as 17 members
of the gauge retreated. Silver led the decline, falling 25
percent. Corn and gold also entered bear markets in April,
joining copper, sugar, wheat, soybeans and coffee.  Natural gas 
is leading the gainers with a 14 percent advance, while cotton
rose 13 percent. The commodity index is 29 percent below its
record close in July 2008.  The MSCI equity gauge gained 6.7 percent since the end of
December, with the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  and the  S&P 500
Index  reaching records last month. The dollar strengthened 2.2
percent against six major trading partners. Global bonds
measured by the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Broad
Market Index lost 1.5 percent in May, the most since April 2004.  Commodities are diverging from equities as the supercycle,
or longer-than-average period of rising prices, is eclipsed by
the supply surge,  Jeffrey Currie , Goldman’s head of commodities
research in  New York , wrote in a report May 14. The agricultural
segment of the S&P GSCI will drop 13 percent in 12 months as
livestock and precious metals lose 4 percent, he said. Energy
and industrial metals will advance 5 percent.  Domestic Consumption  Most commodities will drop this year as  China’s economy 
moves from a focus on infrastructure to domestic consumption and
services, Citigroup’s  Ed Morse  said in a May 20 report. That
means investors should pay more attention to supply and demand
rather than just broad economic trends, he said. The bank
predicted the end of the supercycle in November. UBS AG and
Credit Suisse Group AG made similar forecasts this year.  The S&P GSCI more than tripled since the end of 1999,
including 11 gains over the past 13 years, setting records in
everything from oil to gold to copper. Producers struggled to
keep up as China’s economy expanded more than fivefold. That
attracted a surge of investment and assets under management
totaled $409 billion in March, from $154 billion at the end of
2008, Barclays Plc estimates.  Corn Supply  Pessimism about commodities is focusing on the price of raw
materials as the pace of growth in consumption slows. China will
use 5.2 percent more copper this year, from a gain of 6.8
percent in 2012, Barclays estimates. The nation is still using
enough copper in  cables  each month to circle the globe almost 90
times, government data show. It will consume more than one in
every five tons of global corn supply this year as its hog herd
reaches 447 million animals, six times the U.S. figure.  In the U.S., where builders use about 400 pounds of copper
in a single-family home, sales of  new properties  in April
reached the second-fastest pace since July 2008. Central banks
in the U.S., Europe and  Asia  are still printing unprecedented
amounts of money to boost growth, adding to the almost doubling
of global sovereign debt to $23 trillion since the end of 2008,
a Bank of America index shows.  Biggest Exporter  Supply expansions may fall short of forecasts as bad
weather curbs crops in the U.S., the biggest exporter, and
mining is disrupted. Farmers in  Iowa , the largest U.S. corn and
soybean grower, had their wettest April and May in records going
back to 1873. Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.’s Grasberg
operation may be shut for as long as three months after a tunnel
collapsed last month. The Indonesian mine is the biggest source
of copper after Escondida in  Chile , where port strikes have
disrupted metal shipments.  “The outlook for commodities is likely to be brighter,”
said  Alan Gayle , a senior strategist at RidgeWorth Capital
Management in Richmond,  Virginia , which oversees about $48
billion of assets. “The outlook will turn bullish when demand
starts moving higher. I’m not jumping in yet with both feet and
am going to let the story develop first, which I expect to
happen over the next few months.”  The International Monetary Fund cut its forecast for
Chinese growth this year and next on May 29. It’s now predicting
7.75 percent, from an earlier projection of 8 percent for 2013
and 8.2 percent for 2014. The  U.S. economy  grew at a 2.4 percent
annualized rate in the first quarter, the Commerce Department
said May 30, cutting its previous estimate of 2.5 percent.  Largest Retailer  Cheaper raw materials may boost margins for companies from
McDonald’s Corp. to General Mills Inc. to Boeing Co., while
keeping inflation in check and allowing the  Federal Reserve  to
continue stimulus. Kraft Foods Group Inc. cut the cost of its
Gevalia coffee by 6 percent last month and Wal-Mart Stores Inc.,
the world’s largest retailer, is reducing grocery prices. U.S.
retail  gasoline  fell 4.5 percent from this year’s peak in
February, American Automobile Association data show.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators are holding a net-long position of 652,708  futures and options  across 18 U.S.
commodities, from 1.3 million in September, government data
show. Supply will exceed demand for 12 of 18 of the metals and
agricultural products, according to estimates from Barclays and
Rabobank International.  West Texas Intermediate crude oil will average $90 a barrel
this year, from $94.15 in 2012, Citigroup estimates. U.S.
inventories reached the highest since 1931 on May 24, government
data show. New drilling technology is unlocking supplies trapped
in shale formations, helping the U.S. meet the highest
proportion of its own energy needs since 1986. Crude rose 2.7
percent in New York trading this year.  Exchange Traded  Gold dropped 17 percent, the worst start to a year since
1982. Holdings through exchange-traded products tumbled 19
percent to the lowest since May 2011. Bullion will drop this
year for the first time since 2000, according to a Bloomberg
survey of 38 analysts.  The LMEX index of six industrial  metals  fell 6.3 percent.
Copper stockpiles tracked by exchanges in London, Shanghai and
New York more than doubled in the past year. Production will
outpace demand for the first time in four years in 2013, Morgan
Stanley predicts. Prices will decline about 6 percent in 12
months, Goldman estimates.  Farmers around the world will harvest the biggest grain and
soybean crops ever, the U.S. Department of Agriculture
estimates. Corn will extend this year’s 22 percent decline by
another 3.2 percent in six months, as wheat drops 11 percent,
Goldman says.  “You have the combination of higher production together
with slower growth in China,” said Adrian Day, who manages
about $135 million of assets as the president of Adrian Day
Asset Management in Annapolis,  Maryland . “For rest of the year,
you have a potential surplus of production over demand, which
obviously means lower prices.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  