-- Golden Parachutes of $100 Million for Fired CEOs Outlive Outrage
-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 2013-06-06T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/golden-parachutes-of-100-million-for-fired-ceos-outlive-outrage.html
Corporate governance advocates and
shareholder activists have long complained that chief executive
officer pay, which has jumped by a third since 2007, is
sometimes way out of line with the CEO’s on-the-job performance.  Severance packages for executives fired by their boards are
often far bigger than those corner-office salaries. At least a
dozen executives of companies in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock
Index (SPX)  stand to receive more than $100 million if they’re
dismissed, according to a Bloomberg review of proxy data.  The potential payouts show that golden parachutes live on -
- even after the uproar over Jack Welch’s $417 million farewell
kiss from General Electric Co. more than a decade ago. At the
top of the list compiled by Bloomberg are three executives who
each would receive almost a quarter of a billion dollars or more
if they were sent packing:  McKesson Corp. (MCK)  CEO John Hammergren,
eligible for $303.4 million;  CBS Corp. (CBS)  chief Les Moonves, with
$251.4 million; and  Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA) ’s  David Zaslav , with $224.7 million.  “If you have a safety net of this type of gargantuan size,
it starts to undermine the CEO’s desire to build long-term value
for shareholders,” said Paul Hodgson, a director at corporate
governance researcher BHJ Partners in  Portland ,  Maine . “You
don’t really care if you’re fired or not.”  Since 2007, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules
have required companies to quantify pay agreements with top
executives. Before, details of exit packages became public only
after the person left -- or, in Welch’s retirement case, during
divorce proceedings. The trend toward large severance payments
took root in the 1980s, when many CEOs lost their jobs in
takeovers, said Charles Elson, director of the John L. Weinberg
Center for Corporate Governance at the University of  Delaware  in
 Newark .  Wooing Executives  “Executives got insecure when they realized that they
could just get fired and insisted on a contract, and with that
came severance,” Elson said. “The problem is with the
contracts. They make these deals when they are trying to woo an
executive, not thinking of what the payout will be.”  Executives today get an increasing part of their severance
payout in stock, and severance contracts cost more after shares
surged amid the economic recovery, Elson says. Also, boards
aren’t tough enough during pay negotiations, according to James Post, a professor at Boston University School of Management.  “Compensation committees are not in the business of saying
‘no,’” he wrote in an e-mail.  While most CEOs are unlikely to be fired, most in the list
also stand to get packages worth more than $100 million if they
lose their job in a merger. And they would get large payouts if
they retire.  Entertainment CEOs  Entertainment executives make up half of Bloomberg’s
listing of managers who would receive severance payments of at
least $100 million if they were ousted. Besides Moonves and
Zaslav, they include Philippe Dauman and Tom Dooley at Paramount
Pictures’ parent company,  Viacom Inc. (VIA) ;  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  chief
Stephen Wynn; and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s Robert Iger.  “To most people, this kind of money to get fired is
inconceivable,” said Robert Thompson, a media professor at
Syracuse University. “But with the budgets of movies and the
pay for movie stars at astronomical, almost unthinkable levels,
it creates a bar against which the executives expect to be
measured.”  Viacom, Wynn  Viacom gave about $100 million to departing CEO Tom Freston
in 2006 after nine months on the job, based on calculations by
investment-advisory firm GMI Ratings Inc., which also estimated
the value of Welch’s initial retirement package. Viacom now has
potential severance liabilities of $187.5 million for Dauman,
Freston’s successor, and $150.1 million for Dooley, its chief
operating officer.  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM)  CEO David Novak is eligible
for $169.8 million, and Wynn would pocket $168.3 million.  Representatives of New York-based CBS and Viacom -- which
were split into two companies by their common chairman,
billionaire Sumner Redstone, in 2006 -- declined to comment.
Cable-TV channel owner Discovery; Las Vegas-based casino
operator Wynn Resorts; Burbank, California-based Disney and
Yum!, parent of the KFC and Taco Bell chains, also declined to
comment.  Often, the largest portion of severance comes from
accelerated payment of unvested stock options and other stock
units that would otherwise not be eligible for a payout. In
Hammergren’s case at San Francisco-based McKesson, accelerated
options and stock grants amount to $105 million, about a third
of the total. Kris Fortner, a company spokesman, didn’t respond
to e-mail or phone requests for comment.  Investor Pressure  Such speeded-up payments are increasingly the target of
investor action. The AFL-CIO, which represents 12 million union
workers and sponsors pension plans holding $480 billion in
assets, is pressuring companies to limit awards to the value of
stock and options that were already vested, said Brandon Rees,
acting director of the AFL-CIO Office of Investment in
Washington, which manages $3 billion in an equity index fund.  Pressure has worked in some cases.  Simon Property Group
Inc. (SPG)  amended the contract of CEO David Simon, cutting the value
of his severance to $86 million from about $165 million if he’s
fired before 2015 and the full value of his long-term incentive
plan is paid, according to its proxy. Shareholders, who rejected
Simon Property’s initial pay package with 71 percent of votes
cast in 2012, approved the revised agreement this year with 55
percent in favor, according to executive compensation tracker
Equilar Inc. Hugh Burns, a spokesman for Indianapolis-based
Simon Property, said the company had no comment.  Freeport-McMoRan Payouts  At Phoenix-based  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) , CEO
Richard Adkerson’s and Chairman James Moffett’s severance
payments triggered by termination without cause would be $63.8
million and $64.3 million, respectively,  Eric Kinneberg , a
spokesman, said in an e-mail. Including accelerated vested
benefits, the payouts would total $113 million and $116.4
million.  Ralph Lauren, the namesake company’s founder, is eligible
for about $148.6 million if fired, according to the company’s
proxy. Part of his estimated payout includes options that still
vest after he leaves, but aren’t accelerated. Similarly, $45
million of Iger’s $104.8 million severance are options that
would vest after his exit.  Not all well-compensated executives demand large severance
payments.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s  Tim Cook  and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  CEO  Larry Ellison , the highest-paid CEOs in the S&P 500 in the last two
years, aren’t eligible for severance payments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Green in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Ellis at 
 jellis27@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  