-- Gottex Fund Cuts Bets on Small Japanese Companies After Rally
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-06-06T01:06:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/gottex-fund-cuts-bets-on-small-japanese-companies-after-rally.html
Gottex Fund Management Holdings (GFMN) ,
which allocates $6.4 billion to hedge funds, has cut its largest
Asia fund’s bets on small Japanese companies whose share prices
may fall more sharply in the market correction.  The $250 million Penjing Asia Fund now allocates two-thirds
of its Japan investments with managers that focus on large
companies, which have appreciated less in the recent rally and
are likely to benefit from rising corporate activities, Max
Gottschalk, Gottex’s Asia chief executive officer, said in an
interview yesterday. That compared with an equal split at the
end of December.  The benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  has tumbled 16
percent since May 22, the peak of a 76 percent rally from Sept.
28 in anticipation that the economic stimulus and monetary
easing of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and the  Bank of Japan  would
end 15 years of  deflation . Both the Nikkei and the Jasdaq Stock
Index of smaller companies, which surged 88 percent in the eight
months, have dropped as bond yields jumped.  “A big part of the rally in the equity market in Japan has
been in small- to mid-caps,” Hong Kong-based Gottschalk said.
“Some of them may have become too expensive. If there’s any
market volatility, liquidity will dry up so the small-cap market
will potentially have more risk on the downside.”  Penjing Asia Fund, which had investments in seven Japan
managers by May, returned almost 10 percent in the first four
months, according to Gottschalk. Japan-related managers
contributed about three-fifths of the profits, he added.  ‘Dramatic Changes’  The fund allocated about 28 percent of its investments in
April to Japan-focused funds, including those betting on rising
and falling stocks and corporate events. The figure also
included funds that picked Japanese securities without taking
market risks and Asia-wide funds with more than half of the
money invested in  Japan , he said.  The percentage doubled since December 2011 and averaged
about 26 percent in the first four months, said Gottschalk.  Gottex doesn’t plan to reduce its Japan investments
“significantly,” he said. Instead, the latest allocation
change was part of Gottex’s efforts to rotate between
currencies, bonds and stocks to take advantage of trading
opportunities in Japan, he added.  “Now the  economy  is improving, there seem to be real
changes taking place,” Gottschalk said. “Large corporates like
Sony, for example, are considering making dramatic changes to
their corporate structure, unleashing value. That was unheard
of.”  Pension Buying  Sony Corp. (6758)  is working with Morgan Stanley and Citigroup
Inc. as it considers billionaire investor  Daniel Loeb ’s proposal
to sell as much as 20 percent of its entertainment assets in an
initial public offering, people familiar with the matter said
last week.  Earlier inflows into Japanese equity markets have been
dominated by individuals and foreign investors, Gottschalk said.
The next wave, likely to be driven by Japanese institutions
shifting assets from bonds to more risky assets, will help
support equity prices, he added.  Japan’s Government Pension Investment Fund, which manages
more than $1 trillion, is considering higher investments in
stocks in the most significant revision in strategy since 2006,
Reuters reported on May 30, citing unidentified people. It is
trying to move away from the weakening and volatile  bond market 
to take advantage of a stock rally, according to the report.  The BOJ’s unprecedented quantitative easing will provide a
floor for the prices of  government bonds , enabling Japanese
institutions to make the switch, Gottschalk said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  