-- Green Cards for Best Brains From Abroad Goal of Senate Measure
-- B y   P e t e r   C o y   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   D w o s k i n
-- 2013-06-06T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/green-cards-for-best-brains-from-abroad-goal-of-senate-measure.html
Bruce Morrison has seen immigration
legislation backfire before.  In 1990, when he was a Democratic congressman from
 Connecticut  and chairman of the House immigration subcommittee,
unions complained that U.S. employers were using H-1 visas to
exploit skilled foreign workers, paying them low wages that
undercut American job seekers.  So Congress created a new visa, the H-1B, with tighter
rules. Workers had to have a bachelor’s degree, and employers
had to meet wage standards. At the same time, lawmakers roughly
doubled the number of green cards available for these desirable
immigrants to encourage companies to sponsor them for permanent
residency and citizenship.  The transition from guest worker to citizen didn’t go as
planned. Paperwork and bureaucratic hurdles made the green cards
hard to get; it sometimes took years for the government to
approve applications.  Thousands of green cards went unissued even with a backlog
of people seeking them. Many employers decided the hassle wasn’t
worth it.  “We were fools” to believe that companies would move
their workers from H-1Bs to green cards, says Morrison, now a
lobbyist for a professional association representing engineers
and programmers. “That’s not how it worked out.”  The bipartisan immigration bill the Senate is considering
this month is an attempt to fix the problem.  Citizenship Path  While the debate in  Washington  has focused on whether to
create a path to citizenship for low-skilled, undocumented
workers, another provision in the legislation has gone largely
unnoticed: It would make it easier and more desirable for
companies to sponsor highly skilled foreign workers for green
cards, creating a citizenship path for them, too.  The thinking is that knowledge workers with permanent
residency are valuable to the economy because they can more
freely switch employers to go where they’re most needed, or
start a company of their own, creating jobs for Americans.  Workers brought to the U.S. on H-1Bs are beholden to the
employer who hired them. They risk deportation if they quit or
are fired and can’t find a new H-1B sponsor. This makes them
susceptible to exploitation.  The Senate bill adds to the number of employment-based
green cards available and gives incentives to employers to help
their H-1B workers obtain them.  Keeping ‘Brightest’  “The  United States  must do a better job of attracting and
keeping the world’s best and brightest,” the eight Senate co-sponsors said in a statement.  Yet the legislation -- the biggest attempted overhaul of
immigration law since 1986 -- may still leave many foreign
workers stranded in H-1B limbo. That’s in large measure because
of heavy lobbying from the tech industry, which asked for -- and
got -- many more H-1Bs.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) , and  Facebook Inc. (FB)  each spent
more than $2 million on lobbying in the first three months of
the year during the run-up to the bill’s consideration,
according to the Washington-based Center for Responsive
Politics.  The tech industry urged lawmakers to increase the number of
H-1B visas. The Senate bill raises the annual cap to 115,000
from 65,000. It can rise over time to 180,000 as long as the
jobless rate in management and professional occupations is below
4.5 percent; currently it’s 3.7 percent.  The tech executives argued that there aren’t enough
qualified Americans for all the jobs they want to fill.  Microsoft Jobs  Brad Smith , Microsoft’s general counsel, said at a Senate
hearing in April that the company had 3,300 openings for jobs in
the U.S. in core research, engineering, and development -- a 29
percent increase from a year earlier.  What Smith and other tech lobbyists didn’t say is that an
increase in the number of H-1B visas makes things easier for
them than an increase in the number of green cards.  More work visas means U.S. companies will be able to
recruit the workers they need from abroad, while avoiding having
to go the extra lengths required to help foreign employees get
resident status.  “People come to this country for permanent jobs,” says
Morrison. “I have regrets about how the tech industry has
steadfastly disdained green cards in favor of the H-1B
program.”  Labor unions have failed to persuade Congress that making
more visas available would just provide Silicon Valley with
cheap bodies.  Salary Drop  Hal Salzman, a professor at  Rutgers University , says the
average salary of a programmer in the U.S. fell slightly, to
$70,589 in 2012 from $71,762 in 1999. If the profitable tech
industry needs more workers, he argues, it should simply raise
pay instead of turning to foreign labor.  Unions and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers, for which Morrison lobbies, say that H-1Bs can be
hired on the cheap, dragging down compensation for U.S. workers.  Studies that have tried to determine whether this is true
have produced conflicting results.  Many of the complaints involve foreign outsourcing
companies that provide services for American customers. They
increasingly operate in the U.S. using workers from abroad.  In February,  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)  of  India , an
 information technology  outsourcing firm, agreed to pay $29
million to settle a class-action lawsuit by Indian workers who
said they were forced to give the company their U.S. tax
refunds.  Texas Inquiry  A grand jury in  Texas  is looking into charges that another
Indian firm, Infosys, asked some of its U.S.-based employees to
falsify documents to evade the limit on the number of workers it
could bring from India on H-1Bs.  Tata spokesman Michael McCabe says the company settled to
end costly litigation and “believes that it always acted
appropriately.”  Infosys spokeswoman Danielle D’Angelo says “we take our
obligations seriously” to ensure that employees obey the law.  The extra visas that tech companies got in the new bill
come at a price. To prevent exploitation of employees on H-1Bs -
- and the undercutting of Americans who compete with them for
jobs -- current law requires that the foreign workers be paid
the “prevailing wage” -- that is, whatever the going rate is
for their job.  Seek Americans  The Senate legislation takes that a step further. It
requires all U.S. companies to show they tried to find Americans
to fill  openings  before turning to foreigners.  The rules are tighter for companies designated as “H-1B
dependent,” a group that includes not only the likes of Tata
and Infosys but also Facebook.  They must pay at the top end of the prevailing wage range
and offer jobs first to any equally qualified Americans, not
just look for them. The intention is to make H-1Bs just
unattractive enough that employers won’t reflexively look
overseas to fill jobs.  The Senate bill has one more coercive trick up its sleeve.
In what’s called the “Facebook loophole,” companies with lots
of H-1B employees can get around the rule requiring them to
prove they tried to hire Americans -- if they sponsor at least
90 percent of their H-1B workers for green cards.  The loophole has the twin effect of making it harder for
foreign outsourcing companies in the U.S. to operate exclusively
with non-American workers, while nudging U.S. employers to help
the best minds from overseas make the U.S. their permanent home.  Of course, that was the idea in 1990, too.  “Once again,” says Morrison, “the experiment is being
run.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Coy in  New York  at 
 pcoy3@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Dwoskin in Washington at 
 edwoskin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Meszoly at 
 rmeszoly@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Kosova at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net  