-- Pimcco's Gross Says Good to Stick With High-Quality Bonds
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-06-06T16:53:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/gross-says-good-for-pimco-to-stick-with-high-quality-bonds.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross , whose flagship fund suffered its first withdrawals
since 2011 in May amid a selloff in Treasuries, said he is
sticking to high-quality bonds as market risks are rising.  “Treasuries in the last few weeks have certainly been the
place to be,” Gross, co-chief investment officer of Newport
Beach, California-based Pimco, said during an interview today on
Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers” with  Erik Schatzker  and
Sara Eisen. Stocks, high-yield debt, currency and emerging-market bonds are all in “disarray,” he said.  Global bonds had their worst month in nine years in May,
led by Treasuries, as investors sold debt in anticipation
central banks will eventually scale back their unprecedented
asset purchases. The selloff left Gross’s  Pimco Total Return
Fund (PTTRX) , the world’s biggest mutual fund with $293 billion in
assets and one of the best performing, trailing 89 percent of
peers in the past month as it declined 2.1 percent.  Gross, who has predicted that the three-decade  bull market 
in bonds probably ended at the end of April, has raised holdings
of  U.S. government debt  in his Pimco Total Return to 39 percent
as of April 30, the highest level since July 2010.  “It has been good for Pimco to have been high-quality
oriented and to have recognized the risk in terms of low yields
and low future returns,” Gross said today.  Treasury yields fell yesterday by the most in almost two
months after a report showed U.S. private employers added fewer
jobs than forecast in May. The rally marked a reversal from last
week, when 10-year yields climbed to a 14-month high as
investors weighed whether the  U.S. economy  is strong enough to
withstand a pullback of bond purchases by the  Federal Reserve .  Client Withdrawals  Gross’s fund suffered the first client withdrawals since
2011 in May, with clients pulling $1.3 billion from the  fund ,
according to estimates from  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in Chicago. The
fund declined 0.6 percent this year, trailing 52 percent of
peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Over the past
five years, Gross’s fund has advanced 7.6 percent, ahead of 93
percent of rivals.  Pimco holds TIPS, or Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities, because it anticipates inflation over the next three
to five years, Gross said. In the shorter term, as economic
growth weakens and stocks decline, inflation will continue to be
contained, he said.  Gundlach’s View  DoubleLine Capital LP’s  Jeffrey Gundlach  said during a
webcast presentation June 4 he dislikes TIPS because there isn’t
any inflation and investors should wait to buy them at a lower
price. Investors shouldn’t exit bonds and bond yields may drop
to 1.7 percent by year-end because the global economy isn’t
strong enough to allow for an end of quantitative easing by the
world’s central banks, Gundlach said.  Gundlach’s  DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund (DBLTX)  advanced 1.5
percent this year, putting it ahead of 89 percent of rivals, and
fell 0.6 percent during the past month, beating 81 percent of
peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Gross said last month that the three-decade bull market for
bonds, including Treasuries, corporate debt and mortgages,
probably ended on April 29 as yields reached a low and prices
peaked. He said on May 31 that Pimco likes Treasuries that
mature in five to 10 years, as there will be “no tapering for
now.”  Pimco is a unit of Munich insurer  Allianz SE (ALV)  and manages
$2.04 trillion in assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  