-- Liberty Reserve Operators Plead Not Guilty in Scheme
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-06-06T23:44:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/liberty-reserve-operators-plead-not-guilty-in-scheme.html
Two operators of Liberty Reserve SA,
accused by the U.S. of helping to run the largest  money-laundering  scheme in history, pleaded not guilty to federal
charges.  Vladimir Kats, a Liberty Reserve co-founder, and Mark
Marmilev, who the U.S. said helped maintain the business
infrastructure, made their first public court appearance since
the U.S. announced the case on May 28. A May 24 appearance was
held with the charges still under seal, U.S. District Judge
Denise Cote said at today’s arraignment in Manhattan.  “I arraigned them previously at that time under another
indictment,” Cote said. “I now understand that each of the
defendants had a superseding indictment that named them and them
alone.”  When prosecutors told Cote that they intended to go to
trial on the underlying indictment naming Kats and Marmilev
together with five other individual defendants and Liberty
Reserve, the judge said she would have to arraign the two men a
second time. Both again pleaded not guilty.  “This is a unique set of circumstances, a unique
experience at least for me,” Cote said.  Five of the seven men charged in the case were arrested on
May 24, according to the office of  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara. Kats, 41, and Marmilev, 33, both of  Brooklyn , New York,
are the only two in federal custody in New York. Two others are
fugitives, the U.S. said.  ‘Black-Market Bank’  Liberty Reserve, incorporated in  Costa Rica  in 2006,
operated as “essentially a black-market bank,” and masked more
than $6 billion of criminal proceeds,  Bharara said on May 28
when he announced the case.  The company, which operated as one of the world’s most
widely used digital-currency services, was structured “as a
criminal business venture, one designed to help criminals
conduct illegal transactions,” Bharara said.  The defendants are charged with conspiracy to commit money
laundering, conspiracy to operate an unlicensed money
transmitting business and operation of an unlicensed money
transmitting business. Conspiracy to commit money laundering
carries a term of as long as 20 years in prison.  Kats and Marmilev consented to being held without bail,
said Cote who scheduled the next conference in the case for Aug.
9. Lawyers for both men declined to comment after court.  The case is U.S. v. Kats, 13-cr-00368, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  