-- Most Brazilian Stocks Fall as Americanas Drops on Rate Outlook
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-06-06T21:34:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/ibovespa-falls-for-second-day-as-pdg-tumbles-on-brazil-inflation.html
Most  Brazilian stocks  fell as Lojas
Americanas SA led retailers lower amid speculation policy makers
will step up the pace of interest rate increases. The Ibovespa
closed little changed as a rally in commodity producers erased
earlier losses in the index.  Homebuilder  Rossi Residencial SA (RSID3)  fell for the first time in
four days. Lojas Americanas was the worst performer on the MSCI
 Brazil /Consumer Discretionary Index. Cosan SA Industria &
Comercio slumped the most on the measure after quarterly profit
missed estimates.  The Ibovespa rose less than 0.2 percent to 52,884.83 at the
close of trading in Sao Paulo. Thirty-eight stocks fell while 30
rose. The index declined as much as 1.1 percent in intraday
trading. The real dropped 0.1 percent to 2.1298 per dollar. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials climbed 0.3
percent.  Quickening inflation and the prospect for higher  interest
rates  create “a very negative scenario” for the stock market,
Daniel Ribeiro, a trader at Corval Corretora de Valores SA, said
in a phone interview from  Belo Horizonte , Brazil. “Investors
just don’t want to enter the market if the outlook for the
companies is so negative.”  Wholesale, construction and consumer prices as measured by
the IGP-DI index rose 0.32 percent last month, the Getulio
Vargas Foundation reported. The median forecast of 24 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 0.17 percent increase. Central
bank policy makers said in minutes of their May meeting
published today that it is “appropriate to intensify the pace
of adjustment of current monetary conditions” to curb
inflation.  Rossi, Cosan  The central bank raised the benchmark interest rate by a
half-percentage point to 8 percent at its last meeting,
surprising most economists who predicted an increase of a
quarter-percentage point.  Lojas Americanas dropped 1.4 percent to 16.40 reais. Rossi
sank 1.9 percent to 3.56 reais. The MSCI Brazil/Consumer
Discretionary Index declined 0.4 percent.  Cosan slumped 4.6 percent to 43.90 reais, the biggest one-day drop since February 2012.  The  Ibovespa (IBOV)  reversed losses as commodity producers gained
with global stocks before a report on U.S. employment growth
tomorrow. The MSCI World Index advanced 0.3 percent after
falling as much as 0.4 percent. Iron-ore producer erased a
decline and  rose 1.4 percent to 29.58 reais, contributing most
to the Brazilian benchmark’s gain.  ALL Advances  Vale “suffered a lot with the external instability, and
now it’s rebounding,” Hamilton Moreira, a strategist at Banco
do Brasil SA, said by phone from Sao Paulo. “It’s a momentary
relief. We have an important day tomorrow, with the payroll
data.”  Mining company MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA  gained  5.4
percent to 1.75 reais.  Freight transportation company  ALL America Latina Logistica (ALLL3) 
gained after saying that it will take legal measures on revoked
Argentine licenses.  ALL rose 1.2 percent to 10.88 reais.  Argentina  expropriated
a cargo railway concession and a tourist train concession on
June 4, citing noncompliance with contractual agreements. The
Curitiba, Brazil-based company said in a regulatory filing
yesterday after the market close that it will adopt all adequate
measures to challenge the country’s decision to revoke its
concessions.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge has slumped 13 percent this
year, underperforming  emerging markets  including China, Russia
and  India , amid concern quickening inflation will curb the
nation’s economic expansion.  The Ibovespa trades at 12.6 times analyst earnings
estimates for the next four quarters, compared with a multiple
of 10.4 for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index of 21 developing
nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for stocks in  Sao Paulo  was 7.39 billion
reais today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a daily average of 7.71 billion reais this year
through June 5, according to data  compiled  by the exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  