-- Microsoft Unveils Trade-In Rights for Games on Xbox One
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-06-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/microsoft-unveils-xbox-one-online-requirements-used-game.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , responding to
concerns about trade-in rights on its new Xbox One console, said
users may sell titles back to retailers or give them to friends
provided they have approval from the publisher.  Consumers who purchase the new console, which goes on sale
in time for the holidays, must connect to the Web at least once
every 24 hours for games to work, while access to digital
libraries provided by the console requires an Internet
connection every hour, the company said in a  blog  posting
yesterday. Broadcast TV, Blu-ray and DVD movies will work
without a connection.  Microsoft unveiled its first new Xbox in almost eight years
on May 21, seeking to position the console at the center of
games and home entertainment against a growing roster of
competitors that includes  Apple Inc. (AAP)  to Facebook Inc. The player
will use voice commands and motion sensing to recognize users
and let them switch seamlessly between games, live TV and Skype
video calling.  All game publishers will have the right to determine
whether consumers can pass disc-based titles made for the new
console on to friends, or trade in or sell them, the Redmond,
Washington-based company said yesterday.  For Xbox games Microsoft makes, in order for titles to be
swapped among friends, participants will be required to be on a
digital list created by users for at least 30 days. All titles
can be swapped only once.  Hardware Sales  As many as 10 family members can log in and play on any
Xbox One from a shared games library, Microsoft also said.  The company is preparing for E3, the video-game industry’s
 annual conference  in  Los Angeles  next week, when it will
disclose more details on some of the 15 exclusive titles it is
making for the Xbox One. Microsoft has already shown two -- a
sequel to the Forza Motorsport franchise and a new game called
“Quantum Break.” Games made only for one console are critical
because, if they’re successful, they can boost hardware sales.  Microsoft shares were little changed in extended trading
yesterday after they rose less than 1 percent to $34.96 at the
close in  New York . The stock has gained 31 percent this year
through yesterday compared with a gain of 14 percent for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  