-- Ford to Daimler Bring Flock of Work Vans for U.S. Growth
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-06-06T14:38:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/high-profit-commercial-vans-surge-in-u-s-as-economy-grows-cars.html
When  Daimler AG (DAI) , the maker of
Mercedes-Benz luxury cars and former owner of Chrysler, brought
its Euro-styled Sprinter van with a 14-foot high roof and sloped
brow to the U.S., it stood out on the parkway like a pachyderm.  A dozen years later, the commercial-van market has embraced
the look. Traditional, big vans, such as  General Motors (GM)  Co.’s
Chevy Express and  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Econoline, are starting to
fade from the scene as stricter fuel-efficiency standards are
prodding a convergence around a more aerodynamic, European look.  “Guess what? The world has changed,” Claus Tritt, who
heads Daimler’s U.S. commercial-van business, said in an
interview. “We are no longer the oddball.”  Automakers, including Daimler, Ford and Chrysler Group LLC,
are all bringing new, large, fuel-sipping work vans to the U.S.
as they gear up for a boom in the highly profitable segment. The
surge is fueled by new-home construction and an improving
economy, the same forces helping make 2013 the year of the
pickup, said Tritt.  Commercial vans, like pickups, have long been a strong
source of profit for automakers. Sales of both are tied to the
housing market and both have a loyal customer base, which
include buyers of fleets such as  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) ,  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  as
well as plumbers, painters and carpet installers.  The new vans tend to have straighter sides and taller roofs
than traditional ones that looked more like bulked up minivans.
With their improved fuel efficiency and utility, they complement
the U.S. automakers’ best lineup from top to bottom in a
generation.  New Models  Ford, which brought its smaller made-in-Turkey van, the
Transit Connect, to the U.S. from  Europe  in 2009, is introducing
its larger Transit van next year, replacing its segment-leading
E-Series work van. The Transit will be made at the Kansas City
Assembly Plant in Claycomo,  Missouri . Large vans make up about
80 percent of commercial-van sales.  Chrysler, based in  Auburn Hills , Michigan, is bringing a
Ram version of the Ducato, the work van of majority owner  Fiat
SpA (F) , to the U.S. this year. Detroit-based General Motors, which
sells the GMC Savanna and Chevrolet Express, said last month it
will start selling a rebadged version of  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s
small commercial van, the NV200, next year.  Nissan, which entered the light commercial truck business
with its NV cargo and passenger vans in 2010, began selling the
compact NV200 in April, targeting a segment Ford moved into with
its Transit Connect model.  New York  City chose a taxi variation
of the Nissan as its official cab, which will replace the city’s
fleet of 16 taxi models by 2018. The van, assembled in
Cuernavaca,  Mexico , starts at $19,990.  Growing Economy  Nissan may have about 10 percent of the commercial-van
market this year, up from 2.4 percent in 2011, according to R.L.
Polk & Co. The Yokohama, Japan-based company assembles its
larger commercial van in Canton,  Mississippi .  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s largest automaker, does not
offer a commercial van in the U.S., nor does Honda Motor Co.  U.S. economic growth will accelerate to 3 percent or more
in 2014 after averaging an annualized 2.1 percent during the
first four years of the recovery, according to projections by
forecasting firms Moody’s Analytics Inc. and  Macroeconomic
Advisers  in  St. Louis . That would be the fastest rate of
expansion since at least 2005.  Residential building permits rose 36 percent in April from
the year earlier and 14 percent from March, according to the
U.S. Commerce Department. Large pickup sales have risen 22
percent this year, according to Autodata Corp.  ‘Circle of Life’  “If people buy houses, somebody’s got to build them and
the people who build them need materials so someone’s got to
take the material to the construction site,” Tritt said in an
interview. “It’s almost like a circle of life.”  Commercial-van registrations will probably rise to 301,000
this year from 155,900 in 2009 and may jump 21 percent to
365,000 next year, according to Polk. The category’s share of
the U.S. market may climb to 2 percent this year and 2.4 percent
next year from 1.5 percent in 2009, Polk forecasts.  Ford, based in Dearborn,  Michigan , has long dominated the
segment with its E-Series, including the Econoline, topping 45
percent of the market since 2008, according to Polk. GM’s brands
have had at least 34 percent during that same period. Stuttgart,
Germany-based Daimler’s share rose to 7.5 percent last year from
1.6 percent in 2010.  Daimler and Chrysler are betting that their new models will
shake loose some large buyers from Ford and GM.  “There are more choices out there,” Tritt said “And if
the U.S. consumer has choices, they automatically have to look
at us.”  Fuel Sippers  To help lure buyers, Daimler is introducing a four-cylinder
Sprinter for the 2014 model year, which will improve  fuel
efficiency  by about 18 percent over the six-cylinder. Daimler
sells the Sprinter for the same price under the Freightliner
brand as well.  Daimler is forecasting 5 percent growth in the market to
about 265,000 commercial vans this year, and it expects to
outpace the market’s growth and gain share.  “The recession hit the commercial-vehicle market pretty
heavily,” Tritt said. “People were holding on to equipment but
it’s time to replace. There’s a pent-up demand.”  Len Deluca, director of  Ford’s  commercial trucks unit, said
the E-Series, market leader for 33 years, was due for a
makeover.  “From a technology, fuel-efficiency and capability
standpoint, it was time,” Deluca said in an interview. “I
think we would have become uncompetitive if we didn’t move
forward.”  ‘Terrific’ Timing  Ford’s Transit, which goes on sale in mid-2014, replaces
the E-Series. Buyers can choose from three roof heights, three
body lengths, two wheel bases and two four-cylinder gas engines
or a diesel-burning powertrain. The Transit is 300 pounds (136
kilograms) lighter, on average, and gets about 25 percent better
mileage than the E-Series, Deluca said.  Ford brought the smaller Transit Connect to the U.S. in
2009 and it quickly became an unexpected hit, Tom Libby, lead
North American analyst for Southfield, Michigan-based Polk, said
in an interview.  “Ford was ahead of the curve with the Transit Connect,”
he said. “It really resonated. The timing was terrific.”  Ford sold about 9,000 of the smaller Transit Connect vans
in 2009, and sales took off from there, topping 35,000 last
year. Before Transit Connect, buyers used larger vans or
customized larger sport-utility vehicles, Deluca said. It starts
at $22,425.  Fleet Replacement  “Change can be hard, but based on what I’ve heard from
customers, I believe they’re looking forward to getting Transit
in the U.S.,” Deluca said. “I can’t tell you how many times
I’ve heard from a customer, ‘It’s about time you guys did
this.’”  The age of the commercial-truck fleet also should help
drive demand. Heavy-duty trucks on the road are about 13 years
old, on average, about a year older than the light-duty fleet,
he said. Ram is well positioned with a new 1500 pickup, as well
as a heavy-duty pickup and the  ProMaster  coming to the market.
The ProMaster will show up on dealer lots in the third quarter
with a price that starts at $29,630.  “The timing’s pretty good for us to be bringing new
products to market,” Bob Hegbloom, director of the Ram truck
brand, said in an interview.  Function is a bigger factor than fashion for commercial
buyers, especially delivery and cargo fleets, Hegbloom says. The
new ProMaster improves mileage, comes with a diesel engine or
V-6, lowers the step-in height by three inches and can go longer
between routine maintenance, such as oil changes.  “With commercial-vehicle customers, the last thing they’re
concerned about is the look,” Hegbloom said. “It comes down to
cost of ownership and does it deliver on the capability.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  