-- Higher Taxes Mute Wealth Effect for Wealthy: EcoPulse
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2013-06-06T15:05:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/higher-taxes-mute-wealth-effect-for-wealthy-ecopulse.html
High-income Americans are
demonstrating some frugality as the positive wealth effect from
a rallying stock market is being offset by tax increases.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index is up about 19 percent
since Nov. 15, as the benchmark group rose for seven consecutive
months through May, the longest streak since 2009. In the past,
stock-market gains have led to accelerated sales at retailers,
including  Saks Inc. (SKS)  and  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN) , catering to shoppers
earning more than $100,000, said  Liz Dunn , an analyst for
Macquarie Group in  New York .  That relationship is less evident now, with these companies
describing a weakening sales environment as customers grapple
with higher taxes, according to Dunn.  “For the most part, we’ve been in static tax environment
for a few years and now that’s changing,” she said. “That’s
the factor that has really changed for luxury retailers.”  Seattle-based Nordstrom reported earnings and revenue on
May 16 that missed analysts’ consensus estimates for the period
ended May 4 and lowered its full-year sales forecast.  Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  experienced “somewhat softer” than
anticipated sales in the Americas during the three months ended
April 30, Mark Aaron, vice president of  investor relations , said
on a May 28 conference call. While profit of 70 cents a share --
excluding expenses related to cost-saving initiatives --  beat
the 53-cent average  of analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg,
the New York-based jeweler didn’t raise its outlook for full-year results.  Lagging Shares  Investors have taken note. Shares of Nordstrom, Tiffany,
 Coach Inc. (COH) ,  Ralph Lauren Corp. (RL)  and  Michael Kors Holdings Ltd. (KORS) 
have lagged behind the  S&P 500  by an average of 1.2 percentage
points as of 11:02 a.m. in New York today since a market rally
began Nov. 15, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s a
departure from early in the recovery from the recession that
ended June 2009, when several of these companies were leading
the market, said Dunn, who maintains a neutral recommendation on
Nordstrom, Saks and Tiffany.  Some categories of  consumer spending  now are holding up
better than luxury retail, said Dan Popowics, a portfolio
manager in Cincinnati for Fifth Third Asset Management, which
oversees $6.6 billion. Comparable-store sales for  TJX Cos. (TJX) ’s
HomeGoods business rose 7 percent in the fiscal quarter ended
May 4, reflecting consumption that’s “more of a need than a
want,” he said. Sales at Saks stores open at least a year
climbed 5.9 percent, the New York-based company said in a May 21
statement.  Tax Obligations  Wealthy Americans face obligations on top of the payroll-tax increase that hit all wage earners this year after Congress
and President  Barack Obama  let the tax that funds  Social
Security  benefits revert to 6.2 percent from 4.2 percent.  Also starting this year are a new 0.9 percent surtax on
wages and 3.8 percent added tax on investment income for
individuals making more than $200,000 and couples making more
than $250,000. Additionally, Congress set the top income- tax
rate  at 39.6 percent for taxable income above $400,000 for
individuals and $450,000 for couples, compared with 35 percent
last year.  Tax rates about eight to 10 points higher are affecting the
behavior of core Saks’ consumers, Chief Executive Officer Steve Sadove said on a May 21 conference call. Even with the Dow Jones
Industrial Average trading above 15,200 last month -- “a
remarkable improvement” from several years ago -- the industry
isn’t “as robust as you might expect to see at that kind of a
Dow.”  Friends-and-Family Discount  While some customers’ concerns may have “alleviated a
little bit” during the fiscal quarter ended May 4, Saks helped
drive sales by increasing the discount for a friends and family
promotional event, Sadove said. Revenue rose about 5 percent in
the period to $793.2 million, exceeding analysts’ estimates that
averaged $778.1 million, the company reported May 21.  Demand for  luxury goods  was “pulled ahead” earlier in the
economic expansion, helping to lift earnings for these retailers
before many of their peers, said John Canally, investment
strategist at Boston-based LPL Financial Corp., which has $373
billion in advisory and brokerage assets. Luxury spending
recovered faster and stronger than other categories coming out
of the 18-month slump, though these customers have become more
cautious, he said.  “These folks sated their appetite post-recession, and now
it’s hitting a wall” as taxes take a bite out of discretionary
income, Canally said.  Cap Deductions  In addition to this year’s tax changes, Obama’s 2014 budget
plan would cap deductions for top earners, increase the estate
tax and require those earning more than $1 million a year to pay
a minimum tax rate.  Such prospects serve as a “big deterrent” to many wealthy
Americans, particularly for spending on luxury goods, said
Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps manage $17 billion at BB&T
Asset Management in Birmingham, Alabama. “Everything is on the
table” because these consumers “remain at the forefront for
policy decisions about raising taxes.” There’s “obviously
something on the mind of high-end spenders that’s holding them
back.”  This hesitation is reflected by the Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index, which was at 8 in the week ended June 2 for
people earning more than $100,000, down from 19.7 in the week
ended April 28. Sentiment for this high-income group averaged
7.4 during the past 29 weeks, after reaching a post-recession
peak of 21 in September 2010.  More Frugal  These consumers are adopting a “much more frugal and
conservative approach” as some of their trust in the government
and markets is weakening, said  Lance Roberts , who oversees $500
million as chief executive officer of Streettalk Advisors LLC in
Houston.  Even amid a bull-market rally, his individual investor
clients have been “really bugged” by higher taxes, potential
costs related to the Affordable Care Act and the  Federal
Reserve ’s intervention, he said.  There’s a lingering question about the efficacy of the
Fed’s quantitative-easing programs on the economy and
consumption in particular, Hellwig said. Amid debate about when
and how the central bank should reduce the pace of stimulus,
“talk of tapering is creating some caution on the part of
investors and those who have benefited from this stock rally.”
The Fed currently is buying $85 billion of assets a month.  Encouraging Signs  There are some encouraging signs from luxury retailers.
Nordstrom saw improvement in April after its fiscal first
quarter started with “softer sales trends,” Chief Financial
Officer Michael Koppel said on a May 16 conference call.  Michael
Kors  reported that comparable-store sales increased 35 percent
in  North America  for the three months ended March 30, the 28th
consecutive quarter of growth, Chief Executive Officer John Idol
said on a May 29 conference call.  The Hong Kong-based company sees “continued momentum” and
nothing “that’s indicating any differentiation with how the
customer’s responding to the business,” Idol said.  Even so, the lack of significant improvement in confidence
for wealthy consumers since November has been “pretty stark,”
Hellwig said.  “Whenever there’s uncertainty, whether it’s related to
spending or investing, the typical response by consumers is to
postpone the decision.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  