-- LightSquared Allowed to Hire Jefferies to Seek Exit Loan
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-06-06T20:39:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/lightsquared-wins-leave-to-raise-exit-loan-with-jefferies.html
LightSquared Inc., the wireless
broadband company said to have received an offer from  Dish
Network Corp. (DISH)  Chairman  Charlie Ergen , won permission to hire
Jefferies Group LLC to line up financing to exit bankruptcy.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Shelley Chapman in  Manhattan  approved
Jefferies’s hiring today. She also raised questions about the
identities of LightSquared’s debt owners after lawyers expressed
concerns that a committee of lenders may no longer be the
company’s largest debt holder.  “I have this desire to know actually who I’m talking to,”
Chapman said. Lawyers told her that as far as they know,
documents giving details about the owners of the company’s debt
were still accurate.  Rachel Strickland, a lawyer for Ergen’s SP Special
Opportunities and a partner at Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP,
said her client still holds less LightSquared debt than an ad
hoc lender group, based on trades that have been completed. The
ad hoc group previously reported owning $1.1 billion of secured
debt in the wireless company’s LP unit.  Ergen has offered to buy spectrum currently licensed to
Reston, Virginia-based LightSquared for $2 billion,  Bloomberg
News  reported last month, citing people familiar with the offer.
Dish, based in Englewood,  Colorado , in April made a bid to
acquire mobile-phone carrier  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  for
$25.5 billion.  Falcone’s Stance  LightSquared, which is controlled by Philip A. Falcone’s
Harbinger Capital Partners LLC, said in court papers that it and
Jefferies are “highly confident” their agreement will lead to
financing that is worth more than the pre-bankruptcy debt owed
to the LP unit’s lenders and bring the company a step closer to
paying creditors and reorganizing.  “We believe we need to do this now,” Matthew Barr, a
lawyer for LightSquared, told Chapman today, saying the money
raised will become a cornerstone of its Chapter 11 plan.  LightSquared said Harbinger will pay fees of as much as
$80 million under the agreement. LightSquared separately won
permission to file under seal a letter which would otherwise
disclose how much New York-based Jefferies would charge and how
much may be raised.  LightSquared, backed by Harbinger, filed for bankruptcy in
May 2012 listing assets of $4.48 billion and debt of
$2.29 billion.  FCC Rejection  Harbinger acquired LightSquared in March 2010 for
$1.05 billion in cash and controls about 96 percent of its
stock. The Federal Communications Commission had blocked
LightSquared’s plan to use the Global Positioning System
spectrum after GPS-device makers and users --including the U.S.
military and commercial airlines -- said it might interfere with
their navigation.  The LP lender group had at the beginning of the case called
Falcone’s strategies for the company risky and objected to his
having control. The company in October won more time to file a
bankruptcy plan after it came up with a new regulatory strategy
and lenders withdrew opposition.  The case is In re LightSquared Inc., 12-12080,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 