-- Illinois’s Quinn Recalls Lawmakers as Debt-Rating Cut
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2013-06-06T19:04:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/illinois-rating-reduced-to-a3-by-moody-s-on-pension-fix-failure.html
Illinois  Governor  Pat Quinn  called
lawmakers back for a special session on June 19 less than two
hours after Moody’s Investors Service cut the state’s  credit
rating , citing an unresolved pension crisis.  Legislators on May 31 adjourned without taking final votes
on dueling proposals to reduce an unfunded liability of almost
$100 billion in the state retirement system that grows $17
million daily. It was the third time in less than a year that
politicians failed to pass measures to deal with the shortfall.  Political paralysis over the deficit led Moody’s to drop
its grade on general-obligation bonds issued by Illinois one
step to A3 today. It’s the fourth-lowest investment grade and
the weakest among U.S. states. The cut affects $32 billion of
debt. A lower rating generally signals higher borrowing costs.  “Time and time again over the past two years, I have
proposed, asked and pushed members of the General Assembly to
send me a comprehensive pension reform bill,” Quinn, a 64-year-old Democrat, said in a statement announcing the special
legislative session.  “Failure to act by deadlines has resulted in the bond
rating agencies lowering our credit rating, which hurts our
economy, wastes taxpayer money and shortchanges the education of
our children,” Quinn said.  Fitch Ratings  cut the state’s grade
a step to A- on June 3, citing the pension crisis.  The new Moody’s rank is four steps above junk status,
equivalent to the A- rank assigned by Fitch and  Standard &
Poor’s . All three companies have a negative outlook on the
state’s credit, signaling more cuts may be made.  Below California  Moody’s reduction pushes Illinois’s rating two steps below
the company’s grade on California debt, the second-lowest level
among states.  “The legislature’s political paralysis to date shows not
only the magnitude of Illinois’ unfunded benefit liabilities,
but also the legal and political hurdles to legislation that
would make pensions more manageable long term,” Moody’s said
today in a report.  Investors in the $3.7 trillion municipal market already
demand  1.43 percentage points  of extra yield over benchmark debt
to own bonds of Illinois issuers, the most among states tracked
by Bloomberg Fair Value indexes. The gap over debt issued by
California is just  0.52 percentage point .  Negotiations over a pension fix stalled last week because
the Speaker of the  House of Representatives , Michael Madigan,
and Senate President John Cullerton, both Chicago Democrats,
couldn’t agree on how to restructure the retirement system.
Deliberations were complicated by constitutional protections
afforded to pension benefits in Illinois.  S&P won’t cut the state’s grade after the latest round of
inaction because it was “in line with our expectations in
January,” the New York-based company said in a report today.  Only three states -- California, Louisiana and
 Massachusetts  -- have been rated in the lowest investment-grade
tier, starting one step below Illinois’s score, in the last 50
years, S&P said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  