-- India Bonds Drop as Rupee Weakness Poses Inflation Threat
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2013-06-06T05:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/india-bonds-drop-as-rupee-weakness-poses-inflation-threat.html
India’s bonds fell for a second day
on concern the rupee’s slide to the lowest level in almost a
year will increase the cost of imports and reduce the central
bank’s room to cut  interest rates .  The currency touched 57 per dollar today for the first time
since June 2012, pressured by a record current-account deficit
and the prospects of reduced capital inflows following Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s statement last month that the
monetary authority may reduce asset purchases. The  Reserve Bank
of India  cut the  repurchase  rate in May, March and January by a
combined 75 basis points to 7.25 percent. The next review is due
on June 17.  “I guess we are more or less done with rate cuts, given
the weak rupee,” said Arvind Chari, a Mumbai-based senior  fund
manager  at Quantum Asset Management Co. “The RBI is likely to
aim for price stability as the external sector is stretched.”  The yield on the 8.15 percent government securities due
June 2022 was up one basis point at 7.41 percent as of 10:22
a.m. in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading system.  The nation’s balance of payments is under stress and retail
 inflation  remains elevated,  Reserve Bank  of India Governor
Duvvuri Subbarao said last week. The shortfall in the current
 account , the broadest measure of trade, probably widened to a
record 5 percent of gross domestic product in the year ended
March 31, Subbarao said.  India, the world’s largest gold buyer, increased a tax on
bullion imports yesterday to curb the current-account deficit.
The duty will rise to 8 percent from 6 percent, effective
immediately, Revenue Secretary Sumit Bose said yesterday.  The one-year interest-rate swap, a derivatives contract
used to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, was little
changed at 7.17 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  