-- India Tries to Clarify Multi-Brand Retail FDI Investment Rules
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2013-06-06T16:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/india-tries-to-clarify-multi-brand-retail-fdi-investment-rules.html
India  sought to clarify the rules for
foreign direct investment by overseas retailers seeking to set
up chains selling multiple brands, as it struggles to woo
companies such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   Among the issues addressed in the Department of Industrial
Policy & Promotion  statement  released today is the location of
operations used to support retail stores, such as warehouses.
These can be placed anywhere in India, including states that
don’t permit foreign investment in retail, the document showed.  The nation of 1.2 billion people changed laws in September
to allow global retailers to enter a market that Technopak
Advisors Pvt. estimates will grow to $725 billion by 2017. Yet
no overseas companies have sought licenses to begin multi-brand
operations, partly because they perceive the rules framed by the
government to be open to interpretation, said Anil Talreja, a
partner at consultant Deloitte Haskins & Sells in Mumbai.  “The good announcement is that back-end investment can be
done in any part of the country -- that was a sticking point for
companies,” Talreja said in a telephone interview. The
government still needs to clarify key rules relating to local
sourcing, he said.  Most aspects of the multi-brand retail policy were left
unchanged, including a clause requiring retailers to buy 30
percent of their manufactured or processed products from small
industries with less than $1 million in investment in factories
and machinery.  Fresh produce won’t count as part of this 30 percent,
according to today’s statement.  Some aspects of the sourcing requirement are still being
considered, the department said in the statement.  “It’s the details of the sourcing that worry companies the
most, and those are still not clear,” Dhvani Bavishi, a retail
analyst at ICICI Direct in Mumbai, said in a telephone interview.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government is reviewing
caps on foreign investment in other industries. Singh is trying
to attract funds to finance a record current-account deficit and
revive a struggling economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net ;
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  