-- India’s Nifty Stock Futures Decline on U.S. Data, Fed Concerns
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-06-06T02:24:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/india-s-nifty-stock-futures-decline-on-u-s-data-fed-concerns.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stock-index futures dropped
after U.S. jobs and factory data missed estimates and amid
concerns the U.S. Federal Reserve will scale back monetary
stimulus.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for June delivery fell 0.8
percent to 5,894 at 10:08 a.m. in Singapore. The underlying CNX
 Nifty (NIFTY)  Index rose 0.1 percent to 5,923.85 yesterday. The S&P BSE
Sensex also advanced 0.1 percent. The Bank of New York Mellon
India ADR Index of U.S.-traded shares slumped 1.7 percent.  U.S. companies hired fewer workers than expected in May,
data showed yesterday, while factory orders fell short of
estimates. The Sensex has lost 2.5 percent since May 22, when
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank could
consider reducing its bond purchases, prompting concerns record
foreign inflows into Indian stocks may slow. The U.S. accounted
for 11 percent of India’s exports in the fiscal year ended March
2012, trade ministry data show.  “Investors are grappling with some near-term changes in
the global markets, notably the possible end of quantitative
easing,”  Ridham Desai , head of India equity research at Morgan
Stanley, said in an interview with Bloomberg TV India yesterday.  The Sensex advanced 0.7 percent this year as monetary
easing by global central banks boosted flows into emerging-market assets. Overseas investors bought $46.8 million rupees of
local stocks on June 4, data from the market regulator showed
yesterday, taking this year’s inflows to $15.2 billion, a record
for the period.  The Sensex is valued at 13.5 times  projected 12-month
profits , compared with the MSCI Emerging Markets Index’s 10.2
times.  Stocks of jewelry makers including  Titan Industries Ltd. (TTAN) 
and  Gitanjali Gems Ltd. (GITG)  may be active after the government
increased a tax on bullion imports to curb a record current-account deficit. The duty will rise to 8 percent from 6 percent,
effective immediately, Revenue Secretary Sumit Bose said
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  