-- India Rupee Weakens to 57 for First Time in a Year: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-06-06T12:08:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/india-rupee-weakens-to-57-for-first-time-in-a-year-mumbai-mover.html
India’s rupee fell to 57 per dollar
for the first time in almost a year as Asian stocks fell amid
concern the  Federal Reserve  will rein in asset purchases that
fueled fund flows into  emerging markets .  The currency traded within 0.8 percent of a record low as
the MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares slid 1.1 percent. Dallas
Fed President  Richard Fisher  reiterated yesterday in a BNN
Television interview that he would have prefered U.S. policy
makers to have started scaling back asset purchases. India’s
decision yesterday to increase a tax on gold imports hasn’t
influenced the rupee’s  exchange rate  today because the measure
was already expected by investors, according to  Andhra Bank. (ANDB)   “Speculation that the Fed’s quantitative easing will be
tapered off is bad news for emerging markets,” said Vikas Babu,
a trader at state-run Andhra Bank in Mumbai. “The gold curbs
have been spoken about for a while, so the increase has been
discounted by the market.”  The rupee depreciated 0.2 percent to 56.8500 per dollar in
Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 57
earlier, the weakest since June 28, 2012. The  Reserve Bank  of
India may sell dollars to slow the rupee’s slide as the local
currency approaches an all-time low of 57.3275 touched on June
22, 2012, according to Babu.  One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in
the exchange rate used to price options, jumped 31 basis points,
or 0.31 percentage point, to 9.08 percent.  U.S. companies hired fewer workers than projected in May,
according to an ADP Research Institute report yesterday, while
data released separately showed  service industries  and factory
orders in the world’s largest economy expanded.  Gold Curbs  India, the world’s largest gold buyer, increased import
duty on gold to 8 percent from 6 percent to rein in a record
current-account deficit at a time when the World Gold Council
predicts record quarterly demand for the metal in the country.  The curbs will have a “short-term” positive impact on the
rupee, Societe Generale strategist Wee-Khoon Chong wrote in a
research note today.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 57.77 per
dollar, compared with 57.65 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were
at 57.78 versus 57.69. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  