-- Indian Stocks-Risk Climbs With Foreign Stakes: Chart of the Day
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-06-06T18:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/indian-stocks-risk-climbs-with-foreign-stakes-chart-of-the-day.html
Stocks in  India , Asia’s second-largest destination for foreign money this year, are at risk of
dropping further on concern overseas investors will withdraw
funds if the U.S. Federal Reserve curbs monetary-policy easing.  “India has been one of the beneficiaries of the global
liquidity tap which opened for  emerging markets ,” said S. Krishnakumar, head of equities at Sundaram Mutual Fund, which
manages $2.6 billion of assets. Foreigners could “pull out some
investments” if the Fed starts tapering its economic stimulus,
he said by phone from  Chennai  in southern India.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows that the average foreign stake
in companies in the S&P BSE 200 Index was 17.9 percent on March
31, the highest quarterly proportion since Bloomberg began
compiling the data in 2009. Overseas investors bought a net
$15.3 billion worth of Indian shares this year through June 5,
second only to Japan among Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg.  The S&P BSE 200 Index has declined 2.4 percent since May
22, when Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank
could curb asset purchases if the  U.S. economy  recovers. The
Indian market is “susceptible” to an abrupt end in the major
source of liquidity, said Krishnakumar. Foreigners have been net
sellers of Indian stocks in only two of the past 13 years,
Bloomberg data show.  The S&P BSE 200 Index represents 83 percent of the total
market value of about 4,000 companies traded on the BSE Ltd.,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Apollo Tyres Ltd., the nation’s
second-biggest tiremaker by value,  Shriram Transport Finance
Co. (SHTF) , a truck financier, and Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd., the
second-biggest drugmaker by value, are among companies that saw
the biggest increase in foreign ownership in the March quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  