-- Iran Open to Plutonium Checks as IAEA Defers Action to September
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-06-06T08:32:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/iran-open-to-plutonium-checks-as-iaea-defers-action-to-september.html
Iran  encouraged United Nations
nuclear monitors to use powerful new detection technologies to
dispel international concern that the Persian Gulf country is
seeking to build atomic weapons.  The International Atomic Energy Agency’s 35-member board of
governors will conclude its quarterly meeting today in Vienna
without raising pressure on Iran. World powers reiterated their
concerns in a statement about Iran’s nuclear program while
highlighting “deep concern” about the planned startup of a
plutonium-producing reactor next year.  “We always welcome the agency to have more sophisticated
equipment, to have more accuracy in their measurements, so that
technical matters will not be politicized,” Iranian envoy Ali Asghar Soltanieh said late yesterday in Vienna. The Islamic
republic won’t object to IAEA monitors using new technologies to
determine whether plutonium is being extracted from spent fuel
at its new reactor in Arak.  Detecting noble gas traces left by plutonium production is
as old as the nuclear age itself. During the  Cold War , the U.S.
used planes and measuring stations to look for Krypton-85, the
isotopes released when spent-uranium fuel is reprocessed for
atomic-bomb material. Today, Krypton-85 and other gas traces are
monitored by a network run by the UN’s nuclear-test-ban treaty
organization.  While Iran says it has no intention of extracting plutonium
from fuel, the IAEA reiterated in a report last month that they
can verify Iran’s claim “only with respect” to the sites
inspectors’ visit. The agency, entering the second decade of its
Iranian investigation, has information showing Iran may be
hiding “military dimensions” to its atomic program.  Plutonium Path  “What the reactor does is create what is referred to as a
plutonium path to potential weapons-grade material for a nuclear
device,” U.S. IAEA envoy Joseph Macmanus said yesterday in
Vienna. Iran already possess the ability to pursue a separate
path toward nuclear weapons by enriching uranium.  The IAEA currently doesn’t look for noble gas traces that
would indicate plutonium production in Iran or elsewhere. The
agency considers detection techniques to be “novel
technologies” that are being  looked into , according to its 82-page Safeguards Implementation Report published this week.  While the agency hasn’t yet tried to bolster its
conclusions on plutonium processing in Iran, inspectors may
begin to request noble gas data, a senior international official
with knowledge of the investigation said. The official requested
anonymity because of the sensitivity of the talks.  Iran’s Arak reactor will begin testing in the fourth
quarter and be loaded with nuclear fuel in the first quarter of
2014. When operational, it will produce enough plutonium to
produce two nuclear bombs a year, according to the Washington-based Institute for Science and International Security.  “I don’t think the U.S. has determined what the best next
step would be,” Macmanus said, responding to whether a fifth
Security Council report would be sought among IAEA members.  “I
think we have dealt with this issue and will continue to in an
incremental fashion. We’ll be back here in September.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  