-- IRS Inquiries Multiply With Spock Video Next Focus of Ire
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-06-06T14:47:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/irs-inquiries-multiply-with-spock-video-next-focus-of-ire.html
The Internal Revenue Service
controversy is far from over, say Republican members of Congress
who are just at the start of their investigations.  An opening flurry of hearings hasn’t uncovered the origins
of the tougher scrutiny the IRS gave  Tea Party  groups applying
for tax-exempt status. Also, the inquiries into the agency are
spreading beyond the focus on how the groups were treated.  Today, the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee
is examining the IRS’s spending on employee conferences. The
toughest questions are being directed at Faris Fink,
commissioner of the IRS’s small business and self-employed
division.  Fink portrayed Spock in an agency  Star Trek  parody created
for a 2010 conference in Anaheim,  California . At the $4.1
million event, he stayed in a presidential suite that typically
costs about $1,500 a night, though it was obtained at the
government’s $135 rate.  The videos “at the time they were made, were an attempt in
a well-intentioned way to use humor,” Fink told committee
members today. “It’s embarrassing and I apologize.”  Committee Chairman  Darrell Issa , a California Republican,
said the IRS’s spending on conferences was “at best,
maliciously self-indulgent.”  As the investigations continue, here’s a look at what’s
known and what isn’t:  What have we learned about the IRS’s actions in the
hearings by four separate congressional committees since the
controversy erupted last month?  In considering applications for tax-exempt status, the IRS
paid extra attention to groups with “Tea Party” and
“patriot” in their names and to groups focused on  government
spending  and debt. Those groups experienced delays that
stretched beyond three years in some cases, and some received
what the IRS acknowledged were unnecessary questions, such as
information about the activities of other groups.  Did the hearings identify who ordered the IRS to do this?  No, that remains a mystery. J. Russell George, the Treasury
Inspector General for Tax Administration, told a House committee
June 3 that, at the Cincinnati office where applications were
processed, “no one would acknowledge who, if anyone, provided
that direction.”  Steven Miller , then the acting IRS commissioner, said May
17 that workers were trying to find a shortcut to sort groups
seeking tax-exempt status. They were seeking to put groups with
potential political involvement into their own pile, so the
agency could apply a consistent approach in considering their
applications.  How many groups were affected?  The IRS said last month that it “centralized” 470 cases,
meaning those that received the additional scrutiny.  What was the IRS trying to do?  The  tax code  gives the IRS responsibility for determining
whether groups meet the requirements for tax-exempt status under
section 501(c)(4). Such groups must be operated “exclusively”
for social welfare, the law says. The IRS interprets that to
mean groups can’t have politics as their primary purpose. As a
result, the IRS must determine what is political and whether
political involvement is a group’s predominant activity, both of
which can be subjective questions.  Were any Democratic-leaning or nonpartisan groups affected?  Yes. A review by Tax Notes of the 176 groups that had been
on the delayed list and then were approved found 48
“nonconservative” organizations. So far, however, there is no
indication that ideologically loaded terms -- equivalents to
“Tea Party” -- were the reasons those groups ended up in the
pile of delayed applications. The composition of the total pool
of applications is unknown.  Why do these groups want to be tax-exempt?  It’s often not the  tax exemption  itself that matters.
Unlike political groups, social welfare groups don’t have to
disclose their donors.  Did the groups even need to apply?  No. Groups can assume 501(c)(4) status by starting
operations. Then, they file an annual  tax return  that the IRS
can choose to audit.  Was the White House or the top of the IRS involved?  So far, no one has offered evidence that links the tougher
scrutiny to top IRS officials or to anyone outside the agency.
Issa alleged June 2 that the targeting was “coordinated in all
likelihood from  Washington .”  What was Issa’s proof?  He offered excerpts from interviews with an IRS employee
who said the purpose was to focus on Republican groups and that
direction was coming from technical experts in Washington. Those
excerpts were partial, anonymous and didn’t say who in
Washington did anything. Representative  Dave Camp , chairman of
the House Ways and Means Committee, said June 4 that it was too
early to draw conclusions from those interviews.  How will officials attempt to determine the origin of the
IRS scrutiny?  The search for the starting point -- through congressional
interviews with IRS workers, document requests and inquiries by
the  Justice Department  and an inspector general -- will dominate
the weeks and months ahead.  Why are lawmakers so angry?  There are plenty of reasons, including some that go beyond
the scrutiny of tax-exempt groups. Senior IRS officials,
including then-commissioner  Douglas Shulman  and deputy
commissioner  Steve Miller , knew by May 2012 what the agency had
done. Even recognizing that Congress was interested, they didn’t
tell lawmakers. Members of Congress say they were misled and
have lost trust in the IRS.  How did this become public?  Once the IRS started sending lengthy questionnaires to the
groups in early 2012, their representatives started complaining.
Republicans including Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah  began asking
for information. Those requests led George, the inspector
general, to begin an audit, which was released May 14, 2013.
Lois Lerner, then director of exempt organizations, answered a
planted question at a May 10 tax conference, acknowledging the
agency’s actions and apologizing.  Did President  Barack Obama  know this was going on?  So far, no evidence has emerged that Obama was aware of the
IRS’s actions until news reports on May 10, 2013. Other White
House officials, including his chief of staff  Denis McDonough ,
were told of the inspector general’s findings before the
report’s release.  What else isn’t known?  It’s still unclear what happened between June 2011 and
January 2012. The inspector general’s report notes that Lerner
became aware in June 2011 that Tea Party groups were receiving
extra scrutiny. She ordered that stopped. The cases already
selected with improper terms remained in that centralized group.
IRS workers reverted to using other inappropriate search terms
and began sending out the questionnaires. The hearings so far
haven’t explained who made those decisions and why.  What investigations are taking place and what happens next?  Six congressional committees have opened inquiries.
Investigators from the House Ways and Means and House Oversight
panels are working through a list of five IRS employees to
interview and plan to do more. The Justice Department has opened
a criminal probe and is “actively” working on it, said Danny Werfel, the acting IRS commissioner.  The IRS sent an initial response to the Ways and Means
Committee June 4 that said it had collected 646 gigabytes of
information, equivalent to 64 million pages.  Is anyone going to jail?  It’s possible. At lower levels, IRS workers could be
charged with misusing their government positions or violating
the groups’ civil rights. Senior officials could be charged with
lying to Congress, and Issa wrote a  May 14 letter  listing
several statements by Lerner that he said were false. She
refused to testify May 22, saying she had done nothing wrong and
then invoking her constitutional right against self-incrimination.  Did anyone lose their jobs?  Yes. Steven Miller was forced out as acting commissioner
and retired. Joseph Grant, who had been promoted May 8 to
commissioner of tax-exempt and government entities, retired.
Lerner was placed on paid administrative leave.  Additionally, two IRS officials were placed on
administrative leave for accepting $1,100 in free food and other
items at the Anaheim conference.  Who’s in charge at the IRS now?  Werfel, who was the controller at the Office of Management
and Budget, is acting commissioner. He has chosen a new chief of
staff, chief risk officer and deputy commissioner. Obama has
known since April 2012 that the top job at IRS would become
vacant; he hasn’t nominated anyone.  Did other Republican-friendly groups have complaints?  Yes. Congress is investigating two separate disclosures of
information -- the release of confidential information belonging
to the National Organization for Marriage and the release of
some groups’ still-private applications to ProPublica, a news
organization. The IRS says the inspector general found that both
disclosures were inadvertent. The inspector general’s office
won’t comment.  Also, the hearings have revealed that anti-abortion groups
were asked about their prayers and asked not to protest at
 Planned Parenthood  as a condition of getting tax-exempt status.  Republicans, including Camp, see these issues as part of a
pattern of targeting their allies.  What about IRS conferences and parody videos?  In an unrelated report released June 4, the inspector
general found that the IRS spent $49 million on employee
conferences between 2010 and 2012, including $4.1 million on the
2010 event in Anaheim that included a  Star Trek  parody video and
a $17,000 speaker who made paintings of  Michael Jordan  and U2
singer Bono. The IRS says it already has changed its policies on
conferences and videos and that those events couldn’t happen
today.  What’s next?  The IRS is responding to congressional requests for
documents and interviews. Werfel said he expects to develop a
plan soon for processing backlogged applications and deliver a
report on broader agency changes by the end of June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  