-- JPMorgan Joins Samurai Boom With Biggest Sale Since October
-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 2013-06-06T07:07:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/jpmorgan-joins-samurai-bond-boom-with-biggest-sale-since-october.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest
U.S. lender, raised 105.6 billion yen ($1.1 billion) in the
largest sale of Samurai bonds since October as overseas
borrowers flock to a market flush with stimulus cash.  The four-part offering includes 51.5 billion yen of 0.462
percent three-year bonds priced to yield 10 basis points more
than the yen swap rate, and 27 billion yen of 2018 notes at a
spread of 14 basis points, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The New York-based lender also sold 10-year fixed-rate and three-year floating-rate debt, the data show.  JPMorgan follows Rabobank Nederland and Nordea Bank AB in
offering Samurai notes as  Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko
Kuroda’s plan to double the monetary base helps bolster demand
for higher-yielding debt. HSBC Holdings Plc’s banking unit,
Credit Agricole SA and the  Slovak Republic  are planning
offerings this month, according to regulatory filings.  “Investors are looking to shift their portfolios from
 government bonds , but they can’t really go into the more
volatile securities like stocks,”  Mana Nakazora , Tokyo-based
chief credit analyst at BNP Paribas SA, said in a telephone
interview. “The issuers are taking advantage of the strong
investor appetite for foreign bonds.”  The central bank on April 4 announced plans to double
monthly purchases of sovereign bonds to more than 7 trillion yen
to achieve 2 percent inflation in two years. Ten-year yields
plunged to a record low of 0.315 percent next day, then surged
to a year-high of 1 percent last month.  Samurai Surge  Japan’s  Topix (TPX)  index is down 16 percent from a May 22 five-year high. Japanese stock prices are swinging by the most in
more than two years, with a measure of 15-day historic
volatility on the gauge jumping to 44.31 yesterday, the highest
since immediately after the nation’s 2011 earthquake, tsunami
and nuclear accident.  Sales of Samurai bonds, yen-denominated notes sold by
overseas borrowers in  Japan , surged to 223 billion yen last
month, the most since November, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Today’s sale is the biggest offering since Rabobank’s
161.8 billion yen five-part deal in October.  JPMorgan’s offering ends a drought of more than a year for
Samurai issuance by U.S. borrowers. The lender last tapped the
market in February 2012 when it raised 161.5 billion yen,
including 145.9 billion yen of 1.32 percent five-year debt
priced at an 80 basis-point spread, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. sold 82 billion yen of
notes later that month, the data show.  Tax Exemption  The U.S. government decided in March 2012 to extend the tax
exemption to Japanese holders of Samurai bonds issued by
American borrowers until the end of this year, according to
Linklaters  Tokyo . JPMorgan’s offering today falls under the
rule, known as “foreign-targeted registered obligations,” Kozo Sasaki, a partner at the  law firm , said today in a telephone
interview.  The U.S. law is incorporated into the regulations of the
Japan Securities Depository Center Inc., a Japanese clearing
system, Sasaki said. Linklaters Tokyo and Linklaters  New York 
acted as Japanese and U.S. tax counsel to the lead manager of
today’s offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  