-- JPMorgan Vouches for Leveraged-Loans as Junk Bonds Face Losses
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2013-06-06T19:37:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/jpmorgan-vouches-for-leveraged-loans-as-junk-bonds-face-losses.html
Investors should turn to leveraged-loans to preserve income as volatility in the high-yield bonds
sparks outflows, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-largest underwriter of the debt in the U.S.  Record money flowing into funds that purchase floating-rated debt and issuance of collateralized loan obligations has
supported senior ranking debt in the face of a bond sell-off in
the last two weeks, the New York-based lender said in a report
yesterday as it it’s overweight loans this month versus bonds.
Returns of 0.12 percent on the Standard & Poor’s/LSTA 100  index 
outpaced U.S. junk bonds for the first time in six months, which
lost 0.5 percent in May.  Bonds sold by companies in the U.S. suffered losses on
concern that Federal Reserve policy makers may consider reducing
stimulus measures that had fueled demand for higher yielding
debt. Loans funds have received record deposit on expectations
the debt will deliver positive returns during a period of rising
rates.  “Loan prices are being supported by demand for floating
rate instruments amid concerns about QE tapering,” JPMorgan
strategists led by  Jan Loeys  wrote in the report. “This is
helping to keep the loan market particularly steady in the face
of higher volatility in high-yield bond markets. A strong
payroll report on Friday will likely further hurt HY bonds and
support their floating rate counterparts.”  On May 22, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said the
Fed could slow the pace of its $85 billion of bond purchases in
its “next few meetings,” in testimony to the Joint Economic
Committee of Congress in  Washington .  Bonds Lose  Since then, U.S. junk bonds have lost 2.3 percent, to trim
gains this year to 3 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show. That compares with a 2.6 percent advance for
the S&P/LSTA 100 index this year.  Investors added $930 million last week to funds that
purchase loans, pushing year-to-date deposits to more than $28
billion, according to a May 30 report from Bank of America Corp.
That represents an increase of about 36 percent in net assets
for the year, outperforming funds that purchase credit assets
such as U.S. and emerging market corporate debt. CLO issuance
climbed to $35 billion for the year at the end of last month,
according to S&P Capital IQ Leveraged Commentary & Data.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s  iShares iBoxx High Yield Corporate Bond
exchange-traded fund  reported investor redemptions of 3.3
million shares, or about $305 million, from the fund June 4, its
biggest one-day outflow on record.  Leveraged loans are a form of high-risk debt that carry
ratings of less than Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and below
BBB- at S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  