-- JPMorgan ‘Afraid’ of Emerging Selloff Impact on Banks
-- B y   A s h   K u m a r
-- 2013-06-07T11:13:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/jpmorgan-afraid-of-emerging-market-selloff-on-fed-tapering.html
(Corrects fourth paragraph of story published yesterday to
specify that concern is related to fixed-income revenue in
emerging markets.)  The emerging market selloff sparked
by speculation the  Federal Reserve  will reduce stimulus may cut
revenue for investment banks including Standard Chartered Plc
and  HSBC (HSBA)  Holdings Plc,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Cazenove said.  Emerging markets are going through the most disruptive
period since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
2008 based on the rise in equity, currency and rates volatility,
according to the JPMorgan unit’s report titled “Fed Tapering:
Who is Afraid of EM Selloff? We Are!”  The  swings  may cause a “material slowdown” in emerging
market fixed-income revenues with volumes “drying up,”
Cazenove analysts includingKian Abouhosseinin London wrote.  Cazenove said it’s more concerned about fixed-income
revenue for Standard Chartered and HSBC than previously because
of higher revenues related to emerging markets. It’s in “wait-and-see” mode for European banks with lending or earnings in
Brazil, South Africa and Mexico, including  Banco Santander SA (SAN) 
and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , according to the report.  Standard Chartered spokesman Jon Tracey declined to comment
as did  Paul Tobin , a Madrid-based spokesman for BBVA, and HSBC
spokeswoman Archana Achuthan. A spokesman for Santander wasn’t
immediately available to comment.  Emerging market government bonds in dollars slumped 3.5
percent in May, the  most  in at least three years, according to
the  Bloomberg USD Emerging Market Sovereign Bond Index. (BEMS) 
Brazilian government local-currency bonds lost the most since
October 2008 last month, according to JPMorgan’s GBI-EM Broad
Brazil LOC Unhedged Index. South Africa’s rand has plunged 15
percent against the dollar this year.  BlackRock Trims  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest money manager, said
today it reduced emerging market positions, citing concern a
reduction in Fed bond purchases may curb support for the assets.  “We had very little exposure to local EM bonds but have
trimmed our external EM positions recently to reduce the levels
of risk from this sector,” Scott Thiel, deputy chief investment
officer for fundamental fixed-income in  London , said today in an
e-mailed statement.  The potential weakening of so-called quantitative easing
could reduce liquidity and support for the assets, Thiel said.  Investors increased the extra yield demanded on emerging
market sovereign dollar bonds by seven basis points to 317 basis
points, JPMorgan’s EMBI Global Diversified Index shows.  Cazenove sees December as the most likely period for the
first tapering by the Fed, though “if the  labor market 
continues to improve as in the last six months, we would
anticipate September for a first tapering,” its analysts wrote.  ‘Most Exposed’  “Fed communication about tapering is a concern leading us
to put new money only” in  UBS AG (UBSN)  among global investment banks,
the analysts wrote. Credit Suisse Group AG and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc are the “most exposed to a slowdown in the
securitization market,” according to the report.  U.S. jobless claims declined last week, according to Labor
Department figures today, before a report tomorrow projected to
show payrolls increased.  “Global investment bank revenues remain exposed to this
high volatility in emerging market” foreign exchange and debt,
the analysts wrote. “We are less concerned about second-quarter
mark-to-market losses but our focus is more on the potential
long-term revenue at risk in an ongoing  emerging markets 
selloff.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ash Kumar in London at 
 akumar314@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  