-- Kasparov Flees Russia on Detention Fears Amid Putin Crackdown
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-06-06T12:09:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/kasparov-flees-russia-on-detention-fears-amid-putin-crackdown.html
Garry Kasparov , the former chess
world champion turned critic of President  Vladimir Putin , has
left  Russia  and said he won’t return for fear of being detained,
days after a government adviser fled the country citing pressure
from  law enforcement .  “Right now, I have serious doubts that I would be able to
travel out again if I returned to Moscow,” Kasparov, leader of
the opposition Solidarity group,  said  in audio recording on his
website dated June 4 from Geneva, where he spoke at a human-rights event. “For the time being, I am refraining from
returning to Russia.”  In April, Kasparov scotched rumors of “his political
death” and insisted he wasn’t leaving the country in a message
on his Twitter Inc. account. Denis Bilunov, a spokesman for
Kasparov and another leader of the Solidarity group, confirmed
he’s no longer in Russia and has no plans to return.  Kasparov joins a wave of departures by prominent economists
and journalists after coming under scrutiny by investigators.
Sergei Guriev, an associate of Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev 
and rector of the New Economic School in Moscow, fled Russia to
avoid possible prosecution in a criminal case. Journalist Masha
Gessen, who wrote a biography on Putin,  said  she was leaving
Russia for  New York  with her three children.  ‘Little Paranoid’  “Some people are getting scared because they are fearful
of unpleasant people in the security services,” Mattias Westman, chief executive officer of Prosperity Capital
Management Ltd., which oversees about $4.5 billion in Russian
assets, said by mobile phone from  London . “We don’t yet see a
crackdown on businessmen but people are a little paranoid right
now.”  Another leading critic of Putin, Alexey Navalny, is on
trial and faces as long as 10 years in prison over charges that
he defrauded a state timber company. He denies any wrongdoing
and says the case is payback for helping lead the biggest
protests against Putin’s 13-year rule in 2011. Twelve people
were indicted last month for mass rioting at a May 6, 2012 rally
at Moscow’s Bolotnaya square on the eve of Putin’s inauguration,
with closed court hearings scheduled to start today in the
Russian capital.  Putin, a former colonel in the KGB, reclaimed the
presidency last year from Medvedev, who’d stood in for him for
four years. As president, Medvedev pushed to lower the state’s
presence in the economy and combat corruption.  In January, Medvedev said he may run for the top post again
when Putin’s third term ends in 2018. Three ministers in
Medvedev’s Cabinet have been fired or forced out in the past
seven months, most recently Deputy Prime Minister  Vladislav Surkov , the government’s chief of staff.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Evgenia Pismennaya in Moscow at 
 epismennaya@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  