-- KKR to Buy U.K. Retail in First European Real Estate Deal
-- B y   P a t r i c k   G o w e r   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-06-06T15:12:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/kkr-to-buy-u-k-retail-parks-in-first-european-real-estate-deal.html
KKR & Co. (KKR) , the private-equity firm
that’s raising its debut real estate fund, agreed to buy 430,000
square feet (40,000 square meters) of U.K. retail warehouses,
its first European property purchase.  The warehouses, including food and shopping sites in
Oxford, Glasgow and Sunderland, are being acquired from closely
held Resolution Property Plc, New York-based KKR said today in a
statement. Terms of the deal weren’t disclosed.  KKR expanded into real estate in 2011 after  Blackstone
Group LP (BX)  and Carlyle Group LP had already built similar units.
The firm, run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , is seeking
investors for its first real estate fund, which has garnered
$500 million, including $200 million from KKR itself, two people
familiar with the matter said in March.  Retail parks have “obviously suffered over the last couple
of years with bankruptcies from retailers in the U.K., but we
think it’s reached a pricing level that is attractive,”
Guillaume Cassou, head of KKR’s European real estate team, said
in a telephone interview. KKR is buying properties with the
potential for new leases at higher rates or improved occupancy
rates, he said.  Empty Stores  U.K. retailers have been closing outlets as the economy
struggles and Internet shopping grows, leaving empty store
fronts in downtown areas. Retail parks outside of  London  stand
to benefit from the growth of “click and collect” shopping,
where consumers pay for goods online and pick them up at a
retail park, rather than have them delivered, Cassou said.  “London is expensive in a lot of the classes,” he said.
“We look beyond London and there are attractive opportunities,
both in offices and retail or alternative classes. We’re looking
at residential and student housing.”  KKR has committed more than $650 million to 11 real estate
deals since it hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s Ralph Rosenberg
in 2011 to lead the business globally. More than half of that
commitment has been from the firm’s own balance sheet.  Rosenberg said last month at the firm’s investor conference
that a client has committed $300 million to the strategy.  Blackstone’s Presence  Investors spent more on real estate in London than the rest
of the country for the first time last year, lifting values
there while prices elsewhere sank, according to a report by
broker DTZ last month.  Blackstone, the world’s largest private-equity firm, has
built its real estate  business  to more than $59 billion of
assets. The New York-based firm, which last year raised a record
$13.3 billion real estate opportunity fund, is taking advantage
of credit constraints in Europe to buy discounted assets that
are being sold by banks. Blackstone last year invested $3.5
billion of equity in European property deals,  Jonathan Gray , the
firm’s global head of real estate, said last month.  Carlyle, based in Washington, oversees real estate funds in
the U.S., Europe and  Asia . The firm has raised three funds
dedicated to European property deals since 2001.  KKR is also looking to buy real estate in Ireland,  Spain 
and  France , Cassou said. Quadrant Estates will manage the U.K.
portfolio, according to the statement.  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL) 
advised on the latest deal, which KKR expects to complete in
coming weeks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Gower in London at 
 pgower@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  