-- Koruna Gains Second Day on Czech Economic Recovery: Prague Mover
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-06-06T15:32:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/koruna-gains-second-day-on-czech-economic-recovery-prague-mover.html
The koruna strengthened for a second
day as an unexpected jump in the trade surplus boosted
speculation the Czech Republic is recovering from the longest
recession on record.  The Czech currency appreciated 0.2 percent to 25.745 per
euro by 4:04 p.m. in  Prague , the best performance among peers in
emerging Europe. The  yield  on 10-year government notes increased
12 basis points, or 0.12 percentage points, to a three-month
high of 2 percent, generic indexes compiled by Bloomberg show.  The foreign-trade surplus widened in April as exports,
which account for about 80 percent of the country’s gross
domestic product, grew for the first time in five months, the
statistics office in Prague said today. That was a “relatively
positive surprise” and may drive a “gradual revival” of the
economy, said Tomas Holub, the central bank’s chief forecaster.  “We find this as a good signal for the second-quarter GDP
growth and we also see positive implications for the koruna,”
said Nicolaie Alexandru-Chidesciuc, a London-based analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., in a report to clients today.  The trade surplus rose to 33 billion koruna ($1.7 billion),
the most in five months, from 31.8 billion koruna a month
earlier, the office said. That beat the 21.1 billion-koruna
median estimate of 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Exports
expanded 6.4 percent from a year earlier after shrinking 7.3
percent in March, according to the release.  Sales Rise  Data published earlier this week showed that retail sales
unexpectedly increased in April and household and government
consumption expanded in the third quarter.  The $217 billion economy has contracted for six straight
quarters, the longest recession since comparable records began
in 1996, as the Czech government’s austerity measures damped
spending by households and companies while Europe’s debt crisis
curbed demand for Czech exports. The slump has tamed inflation
and pushed the Czech National Bank to cut its main interest rate
to 0.05 percent, sparking a debate among policy makers about
whether to weaken the koruna with interventions.  The koruna has depreciated 4.7 percent since Sept. 17, the
day before the CNB first signaled readiness to sell the currency
if more monetary easing is needed to tame the risk of deflation.  “We see the fast growth of both exports and imports as
another sign of recovery in the Czech economy,” Vaclav  France ,
an analyst at the Czech unit of Raiffeisen Bank International
AG, wrote in a report to clients today. “The Czech trade
balance for April was a very pleasant surprise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at   wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  