-- N.Y. Court Upholds Livery Car Law Allowing Borough Hails
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-06-06T21:58:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/n-y-court-upholds-livery-car-law-allowing-borough-hails.html
New Yorkers and visitors to the
biggest U.S. city will have more choices to flag down a ride
outside of  Manhattan  after the state’s highest court paved the
way for vehicles other than yellow cabs to pick up street hails.  New York City ’s plan to allow car services to pick up
passengers who hail them outside Manhattan was upheld by the
Court of Appeals in  Albany , which declared the plan
constitutional in a ruling issued today.  The decision is a victory for Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s
administration, which says it’s trying to improve access to
transportation that can be hailed from the street throughout the
five boroughs. The administration also won a ruling today
allowing cabs to be hailed with smartphone applications.  “We can finally bring safe, reliable taxi service to the
four-and-a-half boroughs that don’t currently have it,”
Bloomberg said in a statement. “That’s a victory for everyone
who lives in, works in or visits  New York  City. This will also
advance our efforts to make taxi service available to people
with disabilities, by adding 2,000 wheelchair-accessible yellow
cabs to the streets.”  Only yellow cabs are permitted to pick up fares on the
street, while car services are legally limited to prearranged
dispatched calls. Governor  Andrew Cuomo  struck a deal with
lawmakers in December 2011 for the city to permit car services
to pick up passengers who hail them on the street outside
Manhattan. The state Legislature passed the law in February
2012. Rules to implement the legislation were approved by the
city’s Taxi and Limousine Commission and were to take effect
June 4, 2012.  Taxi Groups  Taxi groups sued to block the plan, and state Supreme Court
Justice Arthur Engoron ruled Aug. 17 that the plan violates the
“home rule” clause of New York’s constitution. That provision
grants the state Legislature the power to intervene in the
affairs of a local government only when it is requested by that
municipality’s legislative body.  The city appealed the ruling to the state’s highest court
in Albany, which today reversed Engoron’s ruling, saying the
plan isn’t a “purely local issue” and “addresses a matter of
substantial state concern.” Millions of people from within and
without the state visit the city every year, and some are
disabled and would benefit from the increase in accessible
vehicles, Judge Eugene Pigott wrote in a unanimous decision.  ‘Significant Goals’  “This act is for the benefit of all  New Yorkers , and not
merely those residing within the city,” Pigott wrote.
“Efficient transportation services in the state’s largest city
and international center of commerce are important to the entire
state. The act plainly furthers all of these significant
goals.”  The plan allowed the city to authorize an 18,000-livery car
fleet to pick up riders in Manhattan north of East 96th Street
and West 110th Street, and in the boroughs of  Brooklyn , the
Bronx, Queens and  Staten Island , where customers can rarely find
ordinary yellow cabs.  The plan calls for adding 2,000 yellow taxis to a fleet of
about 13,000. The city will auction new medallions, or operating
licenses, which command prices of $700,000 to $1 million, that
Bloomberg had relied upon to plug a $1 billion hole in his
fiscal 2013 budget.  ‘A Victory’  The Metropolitan Taxicab Board of Trade, a group of fleet
owners, and the Taxicab Service Association, which finances
medallion purchases, sued the state and the mayor in April 2012,
seeking to have the new law deemed unconstitutional. The Greater
New York Taxi Association, a group of medallion owners, also
sued the following month.  Medallion owners cited concerns that the added permits
would dilute their value. They said the outer-borough fleet
would reduce the earning power of yellow cabs by giving the new
fleet the market for those street-hailing customers.  The city, state and livery groups argued that the hail law
doesn’t require a “home rule message” because it furthers a
“substantial” state interest by ensuring access “to reliable
and effective transportation to, from and within the city,”
according to a case summary. They claimed there is a “lack of
access to street-hail service in the outer boroughs and the lack
of wheelchair-accessible vehicles available for street hails
citywide,” according to the summary.  Today’s ruling is a “crushing blow to New Yorkers who
loathe the brand of end-run politics that created this law,”
and “kicks open the door for systematic abuses for future
executives in cities throughout the state,” the Metropolitan
Taxicab Board of Trade said in a statement.  ‘An Affront’  “Even the city’s win here is a loss,” the group said.
“ City Hall  and the Taxi and Limousine Commission railroaded and
ostracized its regulated industries rather than working together
to come up with workable solutions. And it is entirely unclear
whether in fact, this plan, will ever actually work in
practice.”  Randy M. Mastro, an attorney representing the Taxicab
Service Association, said he is disappointed with the ruling.
The plan will have “profoundly adverse ramifications” for New
York City for decades, he said.  ‘Isn’t Over’  “The state Legislature has permitted this program to
proceed, if at all, only in stages over time,” Mastro said.
“There are still many legal issues that will arise along the
way, so this isn’t over. The Bloomberg administration has
overreached here, to the detriment of the city’s taxi industry,
the riding public and future administrations.”  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg News .  Bloomberg’s administration also won a state court ruling
today allowing a pilot program to move forward that lets riders
hail a yellow cab using smartphone applications.  The measure adopted by the Taxi and Limousine Commission in
December would run for 12 months and exempt areas such as
airports that have provisions for taxi lines. While all licensed
city cab drivers would be eligible, participation would be
optional.  The Livery Roundtable, Black Car Assistance Corp. and
several car-service firms sued the TLC in February, claiming the
program violates city codes and may let drivers discriminate
against racial minorities based on their names or locations, as
well as the elderly, who are less likely to own smartphones.  Emergency Injunction  Supreme Court Justice Carol E. Huff in April dismissed the
lawsuit and lifted an earlier order blocking the program.
Associate Justice Helen E. Freedman of the Appellate Division in
Manhattan issued an emergency injunction blocking the pilot from
moving forward the next week. Freedman’s court vacated the
emergency injunction in an order dated today, allowing the
program to proceed while an appeal is pending.  South of Manhattan’s 59th Street, the smartphone program
would be restricted to pickups within a half-mile (0.8
kilometer) range, according to Huff’s decision. Elsewhere in the
city, the range would extend to 1 1/2 miles. Smartphone
application providers would be subject to Taxi and Limousine
Commission approval.  The cases are Metropolitan Taxicab Board of Trade v.
 Michael R. Bloomberg , 102472/2012; Taxicab Service Association
v. the State of New York, 102553/2012; and Greater New York Taxi
Association v. the State of New York, 102783/2012, New York
state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  