-- Coach of Year George Karl Is Fired by NBA Nuggets After 423 Wins
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-06-06T16:41:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/nba-coach-of-year-george-karl-is-fired-by-nuggets-yahoo-reports.html
George Karl was fired by the  Denver
Nuggets  after a season in which he was voted the  National
Basketball Association ’s Coach of the Year.  Karl, who had one year left on his contract, guided the
Nuggets to nine straight playoff appearances and 423 wins, the
second-most in team history behind Doug Moe (432).  Team owners were unwilling to commit to a contract
extension sought by Karl, 62 and a cancer survivor,  Yahoo Sports 
reported, citing an unidentified person familiar with the
situation.  “George has been an instrumental part of our success over
the past decade, and we appreciate everything he did to keep us
among the top teams in the Western Conference,” Nuggets
President Josh Kroenke said in a statement. “He is a Hall of
Fame coach whose legacy in Denver will last for years to come.
George is a legend in the game of basketball and I could not
have more respect for him as a person and coach.”  The move comes a week after the Nuggets’ vice president of
basketball operations, Masai Ujiri, left to become general
manager of the Toronto Raptors. Ujiri was voted the NBA’s
executive of the year this season.  “So we lost a GM now a coach what’s next!?,” Nuggets
forward Kenneth Faried, who averaged 11.5 points and a team-leading 9.2 rebounds this season,  wrote on Twitter .  Winning Seasons  Karl led the Nuggets to a 57-25 regular-season record that
was the fourth-best in the NBA and finished ahead of the  Miami
Heat ’s  Erik Spoelstra  in the coach-of-the-year voting. Denver,
which had a league-best 38-3 home record, lost to the  Golden
State Warriors  in the first round of the playoffs.  The Nuggets plan to ask permission to speak with Memphis
Grizzlies coach Lionel Hollins and Indiana Pacers associate head
coach Brian Shaw about succeeding Karl, Yahoo reported.  Karl is sixth on the NBA’s coaching victories list and the
active wins leader with a 1,131-756 record. He has gone 21
straight seasons without a losing mark, tying  Phil Jackson  for
the most in NBA history. Karl may be a candidate for coaching
vacancies with the Los Angeles Clippers and Brooklyn Nets, as
well as in Memphis, where the Grizzlies have given Hollins
permission to talk to other clubs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  