-- NCAA Wins Dismissal of Pennsylvania’s Sandusky-Fine Suit
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-06-06T20:26:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/ncaa-gets-pennsylvania-suit-over-sandusky-fine-thrown-out.html
Pennsylvania  Governor Tom Corbett
said the state is reviewing its options after a judge threw out
a lawsuit challenging  National Collegiate Athletic Association 
sanctions against  Pennsylvania State University  for its role in
the Jerry Sandusky sex-abuse scandal.  Corbett failed to show a violation of federal antitrust
law, U.S. District Judge Yvette Kane in Scranton, Pennsylvania,
said today in her decision dismissing the case. Corbett, who had
argued the fines restrained competition in the market for
college sports, said he’s analyzing the ruling.  “I am disappointed with the court’s decision and believe
the sanctions have harmed the citizens, students, athletes,
alumni and taxpayers of Pennsylvania,” Corbett said in a
statement. “I feel strongly that the claims we raised in this
lawsuit were compelling and deserved a complete and thorough
review by the court.”  Corbett, in a suit filed in January, accused the NCAA of
violating antitrust law with sanctions that included a
$60 million fine. The sanctions, which were outside the scope of
the NCAA’s authority, unlawfully restrained competition in the
markets for college sports and enrollment, Corbett said.  Kane rejected those arguments today, ruling that while the
challenge to the NCAA sanctions raises important questions that
are worthy of public debate, they are not antitrust questions.  ‘Extraordinary Power’  “The governor’s complaint implicates the extraordinary
power of a non-governmental entity to dictate the course of an
iconic public institution, and raises serious questions about
the indirect economic impact of NCAA sanctions on innocent
parties,” Kane wrote in a 28-page opinion.  “In another forum the complaint’s appeal to equity and
common sense may win the day, but in the antitrust world these
arguments fail to advance the ball,” she said.  The NCAA sanctioned  Penn State  in July for its failure to
prevent the sexual abuse by Sandusky, who was convicted of
molesting boys when he was a football coach. Sandusky was
sentenced to a minimum of 30 years in prison.  In addition to the fine, the sanctions stripped Penn State
of 112 football wins from 1998 through 2011 and barred the
Nittany Lions from bowl games for four years, matching the
longest post-season ban in NCAA history.  The penalties followed an internal school investigation
that faulted legendary football coach  Joe Paterno  and other
school officials for covering up abuse allegations. Paterno, who
wasn’t charged with a crime, died of  lung cancer  in January
2012.  Criminal Charges  Former Penn State President  Graham Spanier  and two other
school officials face criminal charges tied to a 2001 abuse
allegation against Sandusky.  The Paterno family last month also sued over the penalties
and accused the NCAA of mishandling a criminal matter outside
the scope of its authority.  Wick Sollers, a spokesman for the Paterno family, called
Kane’s decision “disappointing,” and said in a statement that
other litigation is pending and that the NCAA needs to provide
more documentation for its actions.  Lawyers for the NCAA argued in a presentation to Kane last
month that Corbett’s arguments were insufficient to serve as the
basis of an antitrust claim.  “Each of defendant’s arguments is strong enough to render
the governor’s action under antitrust law a Hail Mary pass,”
Kane said. “These arguments are well-founded in the law and
require that the governor’s complaint be dismissed.”  ‘Thoughtful Opinion’  “We are exceedingly pleased with the court’s thorough
analysis and thoughtful opinion,” the NCAA said in a statement.
“The court found the allegations made by the governor to be
implausible.”  Penn State agreed to the penalties and said in January that
it was committed to full compliance with the consent decree. The
school set aside the first of five $12 million payments toward
the NCAA fine in December.  The payment was made by the school’s athletics department
through an internal loan from the university’s reserves, Penn
State said Dec. 20.  Corbett had argued that Penn State President Rodney Erickson was forced to agree to the sanctions under the threat
of a death penalty to its football program. The NCAA used
Sandusky’s offenses as a pretext to impose unprecedented
penalties, the state said in the complaint.  Kane rejected those arguments, ruling that the state
offered no facts to support them.  ‘Economic Powerhouse’  At the hearing in May, lawyers for the state described Penn
State’s football program as an “economic powerhouse”
generating about $90 million in business in the local community,
$5 million in  tax revenue  and about 2,200 jobs.  Attorneys for the NCAA countered that the alleged impact of
the sanctions on state revenue from ticket sales, on jobs in the
local economy and on the value of a Penn State education are
indirect harms that are insufficient to advance the case.  Still pending is the NCAA’s own suit against the state
filed in February. That suit accuses Pennsylvania of trying to
confiscate the fine under a new law that allows the state to
control the use of funds. The law violates the U.S. Constitution
and can’t be enforced, the NCAA said in its complaint.  The case is Corbett v. National Collegiate Athletic
Association, 1:13-cv-00006, U.S. District Court, Middle District
of Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 