-- Needle-Tenderized Steaks to Require New Labels in U.S.
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2013-06-06T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/needle-tenderized-steaks-to-require-new-labels-in-u-s-.html
About a quarter of the beef sold in
the U.S. is tenderized by manufacturers using needles or blades,
an unlabeled treatment that regulators say contributes to
contamination with E. coli and other pathogens.  Beginning as soon as next year, companies will have to
disclose on their labels whether their raw or partially cooked
steaks, roasts and other cuts of beef have been “mechanically
tenderized,” the U.S. Department of Agriculture proposed today.
The labels will also have to include cooking instructions to
help protect consumers.  Meatpackers have increasingly turned to mechanical methods
to make their beef more tender, such as puncturing large pieces
with needles to break down muscle fibers and in some cases
injecting with water and juices. Consumer groups called for
labeling, citing research that shows the needles can push E.
coli from the surface to deep inside the meat where the pathogen
is harder to kill through cooking.  “Mechanically tenderized steaks and roasts look no
different than non-tenderized cuts of meat, yet for safety, they
must be cooked longer,” Pat Buck, director of outreach at  the
Center for Foodborne Illness Research and Prevention , a Raleigh,
North Carolina-based advocacy group, said in a statement. “The
USDA’s own studies show that the tenderization process pushes
pathogens into the interior of the meat.”  The beef industry remains focused on ensuring pathogens
such as E. coli, which is found in feces, don’t contaminate meat
products to begin with, Jeremy Russell, a spokesman for the
Oakland, California-based  North American Meat Association , said
in an interview. The proposal may be costly to smaller operators
that may need to order new labels, he said.  Costco Labels  “The most important thing is to keep the pathogen out in
the first place, and that’s our focus,” Russell said.  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) , the largest U.S. warehouse-club
chain, has been labeling such beef for about nine months so
consumers know the importance of cooking the meat long enough to
kill any pathogens.  “The data was compelling, we’ve been looking at this,”
said Craig Wilson, vice president of food safety and quality
assurance at the Issaquah, Washington-based retailer. “We felt
it was absolutely the right thing to do.”  The proposed rules are subject to a public comment period
and should be in place by next year. The labels will instruct
that the beef be cooked to 145 degrees with a three-minute rest
time, the USDA said.  “Ensuring that consumers have effective tools and
information is important in helping them protect their families
against foodborne illness,” Elisabeth Hagen, the USDA’s
undersecretary for food safety, said in the statement.  Five outbreaks attributable to needle or blade tenderized
beef products prepared in restaurants and consumers’ homes have
occurred since 2003, according to the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention in Atlanta. The outbreaks occurred from
2003 to 2009 and resulted in 174 illnesses, according to the
Atlanta-based CDC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  