-- Newcrest Slumps on Rating Cut, Production Concern: Sydney Mover
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-06-06T02:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/newcrest-slumps-on-rating-cut-production-concern-sydney-mover.html
Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM) , the worst
performer of  Australia ’s  20 largest companies  this year, fell to
its lowest since 2005 after Credit Suisse Group AG cut its
rating amid concern it will lower output and halt expansions.  Australia’s biggest gold producer fell 5.5 percent to
A$13.56 at 11:48 a.m. in Sydney, the lowest since June 6, 2005.
Australia’s benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index declined 0.8 percent.
Newcrest has lost 47 percent of its value in the past year.  Lower production and a falling gold price mean Melbourne-based Newcrest is expected to report a 50 percent drop in
earnings in the year ending June 30, according to the mean of 12
analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Gold fell into a bear
market in April, when it slid to a two-year low.  “Current operating plans, capital projects, exploration
commitments and last year’s five-year production forecast is not
sustainable,”  Michael Slifirski , an analyst at  Credit Suisse,
wrote in a note to clients today, cutting the stock to
underperform from outperform. Newcrest should delay plans to
raise production by investing in its Lihir mine in Papua New
Guinea, he said.  Citigroup Inc. and UBS AG have also downgraded the miner to
sell, citing concerns over costs and expected production cuts.
 Bank of America  Merrill Lynch analysts led by Stephen Gorenstein
said in a note to clients June 4 that Newcrest could cut
production by 10 percent in 2014.  Of Newcrest’s six producing operations, Western Australia’s
Telfer, Bonikro in the Ivory Coast, and the Hidden Valley joint
venture with  Harmony Gold Mining Co. (HAR)  in Papua New Guinea are
currently unprofitable, Gorenstein wrote in the note.  “Management needs to make some very, very hard decisions
and fast, otherwise you’ll continue to see the share price
falling,” Evan Lucas, a Melbourne-based markets strategist at
IG Markets Ltd., a provider of trading services, said today by
phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  