-- Neymar’s Secret Transfer Deal Irks Brazilian Investment Group
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-06-06T15:58:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/neymar-s-secret-transfer-deal-irks-brazilian-investment-group.html
A Brazilian investment group is
asking soccer club Santos to disclose financial details of
Neymar’s 57 million-euro ($75.2 million) move to Barcelona.  DIS Esporte executive director Roberto Moreno said by phone
that in 2009 the group paid  Brazil ’s Santos 5.5 million reais
($2.6 million) for 40 percent of the 21-year-old forward’s
transfer rights, and hasn’t heard anything from Santos since the
team agreed to trade the player last week.  “It was in the contract that we should be informed about
the negotiations,” Moreno said. “I am going to wait one more
week and then I will open a case in court to get access to the
information.”  Folha de Sao Paulo  newspaper reported yesterday that Santos
will get as little as 17.1 million euros of the fee, with Neymar
getting a 40 million-euro signing-on fee.  It’s common practice for Brazilian soccer clubs to sell
transfer rights of up-and-coming players to investors to raise
revenue. DIS Esporte, which has a stake in the rights of as many
as 80 players, is controlled by Sao Paulo-based supermarket-chain owner Delcir Sonda.  Barcelona vice-president Josep Maria Bartomeu said at a
June 3 news conference he couldn’t disclose the breakdown of the
Spanish champion’s 57 million-euro outlay, citing a
confidentiality agreement.  Santos officials today referred enquiries to spokesman
Arnaldo Hase, who didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail asking
him to explain the transfer deal.  “The facts we have are only what we’ve read in the press:
that the transfer fee was 57 million euros,” Moreno said.
“Right now I don’t know if it’s more or less.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  