-- Nigeria Targets Cocoa Output Doubling as New Entity Spurs Growth
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-06-06T16:37:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/nigeria-targets-cocoa-output-doubling-as-new-entity-spurs-growth.html
Nigeria , the fourth-largest cocoa
producer in the world, is creating a new company to help revive
the domestic industry and diversify its economy beyond oil,
according to Akinwunmi Ayo Adesina, the minister of agriculture
and natural resources.  The Cocoa Corporation of Nigeria, which will be led by the
industry, will help double production of the chocolate-making
ingredient to 500,000 metric tons in two years, Adesina said
today during an interview in Washington. Investments in
processing will allow 25 percent of the cocoa to be consumed
domestically, while new warehouses will provide storage
necessary to time sales at better market prices, he said.  “We are putting Nigeria back into the world cocoa
market,” said Adesina, who has a doctorate in economics from
 Purdue University  in Lafayette,  Indiana . After becoming the
second-largest exporter in the 1960s, Nigeria lost market share
to  Ivory Coast , Ghana and Indonesia as the country concentrated
its resources on oil production, he said.  Cocoa futures traded in New York are up 5.8 percent this
year at $2,366 a metric ton on signs that demand for chocolate
is rising. In the first quarter, North America’s grindings, a
measure of demand by end-users, unexpectedly rose 5.8 percent
from a year earlier, according to the  National Confectioners
Association  in Washington.  The Nigerian government will regulate the new cocoa
corporation, while local officials will contribute land and the
central bank will handle development finance, Adesina said.
Supporters including the World Cocoa Foundation, which works
with private companies and government donors to train farmers in
sustainable growing practices, would also be involved at the
ground level, he said.  Nigeria earned about $900 million from cocoa exports in
2012, and agriculture was responsible for about 44 percent of
the country’s gross domestic product, Adesina said. The
agriculture minister was in  Washington  to speak at a meeting of
the World Cocoa Foundation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth in  Chicago  at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 