-- TNK-BP Slumps as Board Recommends Waiving Dividend: Moscow Mover
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o ,   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2013-06-06T09:53:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/tnk-bp-slumps-as-board-recommends-waiving-dividend-moscow-mover.html
OAO  TNK-BP Holding (TNBP) , the traded unit
of the oil venture that OAO Rosneft bought for $55 billion, fell
the most in almost two weeks as the board recommended waiving
dividends for last year.  Shares fell as much as 8.2 percent, trading down 2.4
percent at 40.50 rubles by 1:41 p.m. in Moscow, with the volume
at about 81 percent of the three-month average. The stock is
down 30 percent this year.  TNK-BP Holding’s board recommended not paying dividends for
2012, according to a statement today. Minorities in TNK-BP
Holding have sought to retain high payouts after state-run
Rosneft took over the company. Rosneft has no obligations to
TNK-BP Holding minorities, Chief Executive Officer Igor Sechin
said last year, even while pledging to comply with an order from
President Vladimir Putin to raise his company’s payout to 25
percent of profit.  “It’s a disappointment,” Mattias Westman, chief executive
officer of  Prosperity Capital  Management Ltd., which oversees
about $4.5 billion in Russian assets, said by mobile phone from
 London . “The treatment of minority investors in TNK-BP should
make investors think twice about becoming minorities in Rosneft
if and when there’s a privatization.”  Sechin proposed last month that Rosneft be accountable for
TNK-BP dividends only from March 21, the date when it took
control of the venture. He also suggested TNK-BP Holding
shareholders may receive payouts at a level similar to Rosneft
in the future, according to his press service.  Government Rule  “It’s unclear why Rosneft wouldn’t follow the government
rule for the 25 percent payout,” Ildar Davletshin, an analyst
at Renaissance Capital, said by phone from Moscow. “The issue
of the future of TNK-BP minorities remains the topic of the
day.”  A committee to work with minority shareholders in TNK-BP
Holding led by Rosneft Vice President Svyatoslav Slavinsky, will
be established, the state-run oil producer said in a statement
today.  Rosneft became the world’s largest publicly traded oil
producer by output in March when it bought TNK-BP from  BP Plc (BP/) 
and a group of billionaires in the country’s largest
acquisition. Rosneft’s decision not to buy out minority stakes,
followed by a move to borrow from the company and end the
dividend policy, sent TNK-BP Holding’s shares tumbling 26
percent on March 26, the most on record.  Investors including Templeton  Emerging Markets  Group and
Prosperity Capital said at the time Rosneft was putting  Russia ’s
reputation at risk.  Deserving Dividends  Westman, whose firm has been representing minorities in the
fight against Rosneft, said talks about swapping TNK-BP stock
for Rosneft equity were continuing.  TNK-BP Holding paid 9.96 rubles a shares in dividends per
common and preferred shares for 2011.  “Of course, this decision is disappointing because
minority investors deserve last year’s dividend as much as
Rosneft does,” Stanislav Kopylov, who helps manage about $3
billion at UralSib Asset Management in Moscow and holds TNK-BP
shares, said by phone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  