-- South Korea Agrees to North Offer for Talks on Shut Complex
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2013-06-06T10:35:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/north-korea-proposes-talks-with-south-on-closed-industrial-park.html
North and South Korea agreed to hold
negotiations on reopening a jointly run industrial park, in what
will be their first government-level talks since the complex was
shut in April.  After North Korea made the overture, South Korea
Unification Minister Ryoo Kihl Jae proposed holding the talks
June 12 in Seoul and asked the North to restore a border hotline
it cut in March. The agreement, a day before President  Barack Obama  meets with Chinese President Xi Jinping, follows prodding
by China for the North to resume disarmament talks.  “We hope this can be an opportunity to build trust between
the North and the South,” the Unification Ministry said in a
text message. The South made its own proposal in April that was
rejected.  The offer is the biggest concession from Kim Jong Un’s
regime since its rocket launch in December and nuclear test in
February set off a succession of United Nations sanctions and
threats of nuclear war. The closing of the Gaeseong industrial
park deprived the impoverished state of a source of much-needed
hard currency.  “North Korea has made this conciliatory gesture earlier
than expected, and it seems that they are more desperate to
boost the economy than anticipated,” said Jo Dong Ho, North
Korean Studies professor at Ewha Womans University.  ‘No Choice’  China , North Korea’s biggest ally and benefactor, has
pushed the totalitarian state to resume nuclear disarmament
talks, leaving it “no choice but to cooperate with the South to
get the economy going,” Jo said by phone.  In a speech today, South Korean President Park Geun Hye
called on Kim’s regime to abandon its isolationist path, work to
build trust with the South and become a “responsible member”
of the international community.  North Korea’s overture was characterized as a “bold
decision and sincere proposal,” by the official Korean Central
News Agency, which quoted an unidentified spokesman for the
Committee for the Peaceful Reunification of Korea. Reuniting
families on both sides of the border can be discussed as well,
KCNA said.  The North proposed including discussions on re-opening
North Korea’s Mount Geumgang luxury resort, which was closed in
2008 after soldiers killed a South Korean guest.  Obama Meeting  Xi and Obama meet tomorrow in  California , their first
summit since the Chinese leader took office in March. Obama has
urged China to use its influence to get North Korea to abandon
its atomic weapons program, and Xi last month told an envoy of
Kim’s to return to the negotiating table. General Choe Ryong Hae
told Xi his country wants to resolve its conflicts via talks.  “The scheduled meeting of Obama and Xi Jinping is an
important fact in understanding this gesture,” said Kim Yong
Hyun, a Seoul-based professor of North Korean Studies at Dongguk
University. “It once again shows that China is our key when it
comes to North Korea strategies.”  China Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei told reporters in
Beijing today that the government was optimistic that “the
relevant parties can cherish this change that has not come
easy.”  “China expresses happiness and welcome to this
development,” Hong said.  At the same time, the agreement contains no mention of
nuclear issues, which benefits North  Korea , analyst Francois
Godement said.  Main Issue  “We can see tension going down but without any sign of the
main issue being discussed again,” Godement, a senior policy
fellow at the European Council on Foreign Relations in Paris,
said by phone. “Clearly there is a bonus for North Korea in
this.”  North Korea suspended operations indefinitely at the
Gaeseong complex April 8, a month after threatening preemptive
nuclear strikes in response to U.S.-South Korea military drills.  The complex employed more than 53,000 North Koreans working
for 123 South Korean companies. Production has generated $100
million in annual profits for North Korea and four times that
for the South, according to Yang Moo Jin, a professor at the
University of North Korean Studies in  Seoul .  Kim’s regime last month proposed that South Korea
businessmen visit Gaeseong for discussions while rejecting
government-level talks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  