-- NRC Orders Owners of 31 U.S. Reactors to Toughen Vents
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-06-07T13:40:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/nrc-orders-owners-of-31-u-s-reactors-to-toughen-vents.html
(Corrects effects of ruling in second paragraph of story
published June 6.)  Owners of almost a third of all U.S.
nuclear reactors, including  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  and  Entergy Corp. (ETR) , were
ordered to upgrade the units in the next four years to guard
against pressure-induced explosions.  The Nuclear Regulatory Commission directed that operators
of the 31 units, among the oldest of 104 U.S. reactors, overhaul
vent systems to prevent a build-up of hydrogen and limit the
rise of temperatures in containment buildings, according to a
statement. The NRC’s decision adds to a 2012 order and makes
fixes to the units potentially more expensive.  “Strengthened vents will help these plants continue to
protect the public and the environment even if emergency systems
can’t immediately stop an accident,” NRC Chairman Allison Macfarlane said today in a statement. “By safely releasing
built-up pressure and hydrogen, the plants will preserve the
buildings that contain radioactive material.”  The NRC is considering rules to improve U.S. safety after
an earthquake and tsunami in March 2011 triggered a triple
meltdown at  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant. The
U.S. reactors covered by the agency’s decision have  General
Electric Co (GE) .-designed containment buildings and which are
similar to the structures damaged at Fukushima.  Wetwell, Drywell  The NRC told owners including Exelon of Chicago and Entergy
of New Orleans to upgrade, starting in June 2014, the
“wetwell” structures that condense steam and control pressure.
By June 2017, the owners must begin installing vents for the
larger “drywell” surrounding a reactor, if an analysis deems
the changes necessary, according to the statement.  Duke Energy
Corp. (DUK)  of  Charlotte , North Carolina, and  Southern Co. (SO)  of Atlanta
also own units covered by the order.  “The new order is in line with the with the industry’s
ideas on the most effective means to address the venting issue,
and we consider the timing of the phased approach to be
achievable,”  Steve Kerekes , a spokesman for the Nuclear Energy
Institute, a Washington-based industry group that had raised
concerns about the 2012 decision, said in an e-mailed statement.
“We look forward to working with the NRC and stakeholders to
develop the guidance for implementation of the order.”  The ruling supersedes the March 2012 order for the 31 units
to have or improve their “hardened” vents that can withstand
extremely high temperatures during an accident, according to
today’s statement.  Concerned Scientists  “This is an improvement over the original hardened
vents,”  Edwin Lyman , senior scientist for the Global Security
Program at the Union of Concerned Scientists, said in a phone
interview. “This order is making the reliable hardened vents
even harder.”  Lyman said it remains to be seen how much weight the NRC
will give to reactor owners’ studies of drywells. “They want to
tie up the whole issue in analysis,” he said of the industry.
“It’s kind of negative regulatory creep.”  The agency in March delayed until 2017 action on a staff
recommendation that the 31 reactors be equipped with radiation-scrubbing filters on the venting systems. Those changes may have
cost reactor owners as much as $20 million per unit, according
to industry estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  