-- NYC Cabs Can Be Hailed With Smartphone Apps, Court Rules
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-06-06T18:29:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/nyc-cabs-can-be-hailed-with-smartphone-apps-court-rules.html
New York City taxi riders will now be
able to hail a cab using smartphone applications after a state
appeals panel cleared the way for a pilot program to move
forward.  The measure adopted by the New York City Taxi & Limousine
Commission in December would run for 12 months and exempt areas
such as airports that have provisions for taxi lines. While all
licensed city cab drivers would be eligible, participation would
be optional.  The Livery Roundtable, Black Car Assistance Corp. and
several car-service firms sued the TLC in February, claiming the
program violates city codes and may let drivers discriminate
against racial minorities based on their names or locations, as
well as the elderly, who are less likely to own smartphones.  Supreme Court Justice Carole Huff in April dismissed the
lawsuit and lifted an earlier order blocking the program.
Associate Justice Helen E. Freedman of the Appellate Division in
 Manhattan  issued an emergency injunction blocking the pilot from
moving forward the next week. Freedman’s court vacated the
emergency injunction in an order dated today, allowing the
program to proceed while the appeal is pending.  ‘Not Over’  “While we are obviously disappointed that the emergency
injunction has been lifted, this is not over,” Randy M. Mastro,
an attorney representing the car-service firms, said in an e-mail. “What the TLC did here is so outrageous and such a
fundamental violation of multiple local laws that it cries out
for a remedy, so we intend to pursue our appeal to a prompt
resolution and expect that it will result in the termination of
this illegal program.”  South of Manhattan’s 59th Street, the smartphone program
would be restricted to pickups within a half-mile (0.8
kilometer) range, according to Huff’s decision. Elsewhere in the
city, the range would extend to 1 1/2 miles. Smartphone
application providers would be subject to Taxi & Limousine
Commission approval.  “In New York City in 2013, common sense and the free
market say that you should be able to use your smartphone to get
a cab, and that’s why we created a pilot program to allow users
to do just that,” Mayor Michael Bloomberg said in a statement.
“This decision will allow our e-hail program to move forward,
and give New Yorkers another way to hail a cab.”  Bloomberg’s administration also won a ruling today from the
state’s highest court in  Albany  allowing car services to pick
up passengers who hail them outside of Manhattan. Only yellow
cabs had been permitted to pick up fares on the street, while
car services were limited to pre-arranged dispatched calls.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  The case is Black Car Assistance Corp. v. City of New York,
100327-2013, Supreme Court for the State of New York, County of
New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court at 
8969 or  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  