-- Tobacco Chief to Start Ruling on Product Backlog at FDA
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t   a n d   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-06-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/tobacco-chief-to-start-ruling-on-product-backlog-at-fda.html
The top U.S. tobacco regulator said
he’s ready to reduce a backlog of 4,000 applications from
companies asking to determine which of their products can stay
on the market and what new ones may be introduced.  The  Food and Drug Administration  is “very close” to
ruling whether  tobacco companies  can sell new products they say
have the same characteristics as existing ones, Mitch Zeller,
appointed in March as head of the agency’s Center for Tobacco
Products, said in an interview. There are 500 requests to
approve products not currently sold and 3,500 for products
already in stores, he said.  The changing regulatory standards for cigarettes have
created a backlog of requests from  Altria Group Inc. (MO)  and other
companies, which Congress put under FDA oversight in 2009. That
authority provided an exception to rigorous new-product reviews
by letting companies ask the agency to determine that proposed
products are “substantially equivalent” to those on the
market, requiring less scrutiny.  The industry “has the greatest degree of concern” over
products they can’t currently sell, Zeller said. The agency
plans to rule first on some of those requests before issuing
decisions on the 3,500 products already being sold, he said.  Zeller declined to provide specifics on the timing of
rulings.  Public Health  The FDA can allow products to be sold even if the agency
determines they have different characteristics than existing
ones, Zeller said yesterday. In those cases, the agency must
consider whether the variances raise new questions about  public
health . If the FDA decides that the issues aren’t different, it
can rule the products as substantially equivalent, he said.  Companies such as Richmond, Virginia-based Altria and
Winston-Salem, North Carolina-based  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI)  are
regulated by the 2009 Family Smoking and Tobacco Control Act.  Altria declined to comment on Zeller’s remarks, said Bill
Phelps, a company spokesman, as did Reynolds, spokesman Bryan
Hatchell said. Robert Bannon, a spokesman for  Lorillard Inc. (LO) ,
didn’t reply to an e-mail and telephone message seeking comment.  New tobacco products marketed after Feb. 15, 2007, must be
cleared for sale by the FDA. A tobacco product marketed before
March 22, 2011, can continue to be sold if the FDA issues an
order that it is substantially equivalent to an older product or
one that has been declared substantially equivalent.  Advertisements to prevent smoking among 12- to 17-year-olds
are planned by the agency by the end of this year with more in
2014, Zeller said. The FDA will spend $300 million on the
campaign that will target multiple media platforms, he said. The
research is taking place now to determine the best design and
placement for the ads.  There will be parallel ad campaigns targeting rural,
minority and lesbian, gay, and transgender youth. “These are
some of the most vulnerable and at-risk youth out there,”
Zeller said.  The ads will complement the campaign by the Atlanta-based
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention that targets adults,
Zeller said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  