-- Obama Empowered by U.S. Rebound as Xi Absorbed at Home
-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 2013-06-06T00:05:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/obama-empowered-by-u-s-rebound-as-xi-absorbed-with-home-economy.html
When President  Barack Obama  made his
first trip to China in November 2009, he was burdened by the
highest U.S. jobless rate in 26 years, a shrinking economy and
the biggest federal  budget deficit  in U.S. history.  Now, the  U.S. economy  is rebounding and it’s Chinese
President Xi Jinping who’s likely to be preoccupied with
domestic concerns as he prepares to meet with the U.S. president
in California. That may give Obama a stronger hand in reshaping
relations with his nation’s chief economic partner and rival.  During the U.S. recession, many in Asia saw the U.S. as
being in “almost plummeting decline,” says  Kurt Campbell , who
was the State Department’s top Asia policy official until
February. Today, in China, “there is a deep recognition of the
challenges they face going forward and there is a better
appreciation of the staying power and capability of the U.S.”  The countries’ shifting economic fortunes are “one of the
most important aspects of the relationship,” Campbell said.
That, he said, could help Obama forge the personal ties with
China’s new leader that eluded him with Xi’s predecessor,  Hu Jintao , who rarely deviated from scripted remarks and tightly
choreographed meetings.  Such chemistry could pave the way for Obama to get Xi’s aid
in reining in North Korean nuclear ambitions and for joint
efforts to curb cyber-spying that’s siphoning  trade secrets  from
U.S. companies and classified weapons designs from the Pentagon.
The two men will meet tomorrow and Saturday at a desert estate
in Rancho Mirage, California.  Easing Pressure  For Obama, a stronger U.S. economy also means “less of a
sense of urgency” going into the talks, said Jeffrey Bader, who
was the president’s China adviser on the National Security
Council during the first term. “There isn’t that feeling of
‘I’ve got to get results on economic issues.’ It takes some of
the pressure off.”  The U.S. is growing faster than both Japan and the euro
area. The economy, now in its 16th consecutive quarter of
growth, is about $500 billion larger than a year ago, the
jobless rate is dropping, and the budget deficit so far this
year is one-third smaller than over the same period in 2012.  Xi, meanwhile, has responded to China’s slowest growth in
13 years by calling for deeper -- and politically difficult --
market-oriented moves. The  International Monetary Fund 
highlighted the need for action on May 28, saying the “margins
of safety are narrowing” for a Chinese economy that has become
overly dependent upon credit-fueled investment.  “The current growth model needs to change,” said the IMF,
stressing the need for policies that may slow the economy in the
short run while putting it on a more sustainable long-term path.  New Approach  Obama’s approach to China has evolved since he charged
during the 2008 presidential campaign that then-U.S. President
 George W. Bush  was a “patsy” in bilateral trade negotiations.  During his 2009 visit to Beijing, Obama was assailed by
critics, from consumer activist  Ralph Nader  on the left to
former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin on the right, for allegedly
deferring to the Chinese. In the months before the talks, the
president had delayed meeting with the Dalai Lama, the spiritual
leader of Tibet. He then appeared alongside President Hu at a
no-questions-allowed press conference more familiar to an
authoritarian system than the world’s leading democracy.  “The White House was not happy with the way the initial
trip was portrayed,” said Timothy Adams, who headed the
Treasury Department’s international portfolio under the Bush
administration. “They didn’t want that image. After that, there
was a much more measured approach to China.”  Eclipsing U.S.  To be sure, many Chinese still see the U.S. as a declining
power that will inevitably be eclipsed as China regains its
historical dominance. The U.S. has piled on  government debt  in
recent years, driving its outstanding borrowing to more than $16
trillion. China’s holdings of  Treasury securities  have grown to
$1.2 trillion from $929 billion at the time of Obama’s trip.  And while China’s 7.7 percent growth rate is down from
almost 10 percent two years ago, it remains the envy of much of
the world.  Still, investors betting on the  U.S. stock market  at the
conclusion of that summit would have gained 45 percent since
then while the  Shanghai stock index  lost roughly 31 percent.  Architects of Obama’s China policy, such as Campbell and
Bader, say the administration has consistently emphasized the
growing importance of Asia and China’s role in particular. In
2011, as Obama wound down wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, he
placed greater stress on relations with Asia, a diplomatic
maneuver Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  branded a “pivot.”  ‘Signature Achievement’  National Security Adviser Tom Donilon promoted the
intensified U.S. focus on Asia, calling it a “signature
achievement” of the administration in a March 11 speech to the
Asia Society in New York. Donilon, who will leave his post in
early July, said Asia already accounts for more than a quarter
of global economic output and will in the next five years
witness almost half the economic growth outside of the U.S.  “The future of the United States has never been more
closely linked to the economic, strategic and political order
emerging in the Asia-Pacific,” he said in the speech.  In Beijing, the increasing U.S. attention to the region is
seen as an effort to contain China’s rise. In recent years, as
the two sides sparred over human rights, cyber-spying and rival
territorial claims to the  South China Sea , the relationship
became infected with what scholars at the  Brookings Institution 
in Washington called “strategic distrust.”  Personal Touch  Now, both sides are trying to nurture leader-to-leader
ties. After seeing Xi during a 2012 visit to the U.S. while he
was China’s vice president, some former administration officials
say the new leader has the personal touch his predecessors
lacked.  “In all the meetings I was in, President Hu was not a guy
who was going to veer off his talking points,” says  David Loevinger , who retired last year as the Treasury Department’s
coordinator for China affairs. “Xi seems a bit more like
someone who will engage.”  Issues that once dominated the bilateral relationship, such
as U.S. objections to Chinese currency and trade policies, have
faded. The  renminbi  has risen against the dollar about 10
percent since November 2009, quieting U.S. manufacturers’
complaints about unfair Chinese practices.  China’s  current account  surplus, the broadest trade
measure, fell from a peak of 10.1 percent of gross domestic
product in 2007 to 2.6 percent last year.  Multipolar World  As the U.S. recovery has strengthened, China’s attitude
has softened. In 2010, the Chinese government’s annual defense
white paper said progress toward a multipolar world, rather than
one characterized by a single global superpower, was
“irreversible.”  The latest defense study, released in April, dropped that
reference, said  Bonnie Glaser , senior Asia adviser at the Center
for Strategic and International Studies. And during a recent
meeting with researchers at a Communist Party institute in
Beijing, Glaser says she was told that of 15 indicators of
national power tracked by the Chinese government, the U.S. was
still getting stronger on 10.  “They see the U.S. is resilient,” says Glaser. “They’re
not as overconfident as they were and they can see their own
problems more clearly.”  ‘China Dream’  Upon becoming general secretary of the Chinese Communist
Party in November, Xi spoke of a “China dream” amounting to
“the great renewal of the Chinese nation.”  Yet he confronts daunting economic challenges. Slower
growth means 30 percent to 50 percent of China’s 7 million
college graduates this year may be unable to find work,
according to Cheng Li of the Brookings Institution.  “The equation has changed,” says  Nicholas Lardy , an
expert on the Chinese economy at the Peterson Institute in
Washington. “They’re struggling to keep the economy growing at
7.5 percent, and there’s a risk they won’t even make 7.5 percent
this year.”  In March, Premier  Li Keqiang  promised a “self-imposed
revolution” that would reduce government control over the
economy while boosting market-oriented policies. Chinese
officials have talked of liberalizing  interest rates  and moving
toward full convertibility of the  yuan .  Doing that would mean taking on powerful interests at home
who benefit from current policy, including state-owned
enterprises that enjoy preferential financing. For the Chinese
leader, trouble abroad could only be a distraction from more
pressing matters.  Obama, who has his own domestic battles to fight over
immigration policy and a possible overhaul of the  tax code , is
seeking a Sino-U.S. thaw. As he heads to the summit, the focus
will be on how well the men hit it off.  “There are myriad challenges confronting the U.S.-China
relationship that require the most difficult kind of
diplomacy,” says Campbell. “The personal relationship does
matter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David J. Lynch in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  