-- Obama to Push Plan Expanding Web Connections for Students
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2013-06-06T20:16:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/obama-to-push-plan-expanding-web-connections-for-students.html
President  Barack Obama  directed the
federal government to expand high-speed Internet access to 99
percent of U.S. students in five years, continuing his effort to
push his second-term economic agenda using executive action.  Speaking at a North Carolina middle school, Obama said he’s
ordered the Federal Communications Commission to equip schools
with broadband Internet, saying faster online access will
improve educational outcomes and make American students more
competitive globally.  “In our country where we expect free wi-fi with our
coffee, why can’t we expect that in our schools,” he said,
speaking to students and teachers in the Mooresville Middle
School gym.  The stop was one in a series of visits across the country
designed to showcase the president’s second-term economic agenda
-- major pieces of which have faced resistance from Congress --
and offer less-sweeping proposals that don’t require
congressional action.  Among those is the so-called ConnectED update, designed to
use existing federal money to increase connectivity in
classrooms and improve technology training for teachers.  Bypassing Congress  “For those of you who follow politics in  Washington ,
here’s the best news -- none of this requires an act of
Congress,” Obama told the cheering audience. “We can and we
will get started right away.”  Millions of U.S. students lack access to high-speed
broadband and less than 20 percent of educators say their
school’s Internet connection meets teaching needs, according to
the White House.  The plan would modernize the FCC’s existing E-rate program,
which is funded by a charge on telephone subscribers’ bills and
helps schools and libraries pay for telecommunications links,
including broadband.  If more money is needed, White House aides said a temporary
fee of less than $5 annually would be added to broadband
subscribers’ Internet bills. That fee would increase an existing
charge and wouldn’t require congressional approval, said the
aides who spoke on the condition that they not be identified in
discussing the proposal. Officials wouldn’t specify a total cost
for the program.  Competitive Edge  Administration officials said faster online connectivity is
necessary to keep U.S. students competitive with countries such
as South Korea, where every school has high-speed Internet.  “This is a huge deal for education for years to come,”
Education Secretary Arne Duncan told reporters today.
“Technology is a game changer.”  At Mooresville Middle School, part of an education district
known nationally for its digital-learning program, Obama toured
a classroom and watched students present their online math and
reading projects.  “This is like Schoolhouse Rock,” he said, referring to a
musical television series teaching subjects such as math,
science and history. The president watched a video presentation
the students created online using digital tools.  The North Carolina school district hands a laptop to every
child in grades four to 12, offers special teacher technology
training, and uses a predominantly digital curriculum.  The stop came before Obama heads west to Sunnylands, a
sprawling California desert estate near Palm Springs, for two
days of informal talks with new Chinese president Xi Jinping.
The high-profile, “shirt-sleeves” summit is designed to
establish a more personal rapport between the leaders of the
world’s biggest economies.  Overshadowed Plans  Over the past month, Obama has been making brief trips
around the country to press proposals he outlined at the start
of his second term and that have been overshadowed by
controversies. Those include scrutiny the IRS gave to Tea Party-aligned groups and the administration’s handling of last year’s
deadly attack on a U.S. facility in Benghazi, Libya.  The president said in his annual speech to Congress on Feb.
12 that lawmakers should be guided by the goal of strengthening
the economy, creating middle-income jobs, and training students
for the careers of the future. Along with raising the federal
minimum wage to $9 an hour, he proposed making preschool
available to all 4-year-olds, and asked for $50 billion in
infrastructure spending.  Republican lawmakers met the three proposals with immediate
resistance, saying they were too costly.  2014 Elections  With passage of his major initiatives in doubt, the
president is facing questions about whether he has the political
clout to push through his priorities before the focus in
Congress turns entirely to the 2014 midterm elections. He failed
earlier this year to persuade lawmakers to expand background
checks for gun buyers and halt automatic cuts in federal
spending, known as sequestration.  In traveling to North Carolina, the president returned to
the state that hosted the 2012 Democratic National Convention.
After winning its electoral votes in the 2008 election, he
narrowly lost there in November to Republican  Mitt Romney . Next
year, incumbent Democratic Senator Kay Hagan must defend her
seat in the tightly contested state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  