-- ObamaTrade Nominee Vows to Seek Fast-Track Renewal
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-06-06T19:34:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/obamatrade-nominee-vows-to-seek-fast-track-renewal.html
White House official  Michael Froman ,
seeking confirmation as U.S. trade representative, told a Senate
committee he would press lawmakers to renew the president’s
authority assuring speedy action on trade deals.  Such trade-promotion authority, which expired in 2007, can
help assure Europe and Pacific-region negotiators that
commitments made by the U.S. won’t unravel when submitted to
Congress for approval. Renewing the authority, which requires
up-or-down votes on trade deals, is a priority for President
 Barack Obama , Froman told the Senate Finance Committee.  “If confirmed, I will engage with you to renew trade
promotion authority,” Froman, deputy national security for
international affairs, said today at his confirmation hearing.  Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat and chairman of the
panel, said he’ll introduce bipartisan legislation renewing the
White House authority “in the next few months.” The panel’s
top Republican,  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , said Froman is qualified
and likely to get the post, and chided the administration for
what he called a lack of leadership on renewing trade-promotion
authority and other matters.  “Without the president’s active leadership and public
support for TPA, it is hard to see how our current efforts to
renew TPA can succeed.”  Europe, Pacific  Froman, 50, if confirmed would lead U.S. efforts in
negotiating the two largest trade deals in American history.
U.S. officials have said they intend this year to reach an
agreement with 10 other Pacific-region nations. The U.S. and the
27-nation EU, which already have the world’s largest bilateral
economic relationship, may begin talks on a separate trade pact
as early as next month.  The Trans-Pacific Partnership accord, with  Japan  joining
the talks in the coming months, would link a region that
generates about $26 trillion in annual economic output. The U.S.
and EU region produces about $28 trillion a year.  At the USTR, Froman would also oversee U.S. enforcement of
trade rules. To curb what it calls unfair competition that
hinders exports, the Obama administration has filed complaints
against nations including  China  and  India  at the  World Trade
Organization , and last year it established a unit to police
potential trade violations.  Obama nominated Froman, a former Harvard Law School
classmate, on May 2 to replace  Ron Kirk , who left in March.
Obama called Froman “one of the world’s foremost experts on the
global economy.”  Enforcing Rules  At the hearing today, Froman pledged to seek tough
enforcement of trade rules during a time of mounting trade
tensions between China and India. He also said he will use both
discussions and trade enforcement tools to help lead a
resolution to a growing trade conflict between China and the
European Union.  The 27-nation EU on June 4 imposed tariffs on Chinese solar
panels that could reach as high as 67.9 percent, with China the
next day initiating an anti-dumping and anti-subsidy probe of
wine imports from the EU.  Froman along with Commerce secretary nominee  Penny Pritzker , a Chicago businesswoman, was nominated to be part of
Obama’s second-term economic team. The trade representative has
the rank of ambassador and is a member of the cabinet.  Froman has said he and his wife will divest their holdings
with his former employer, Citigroup Inc., if confirmed. Among
the assets is a Cayman Islands-based investment fund worth at
least $500,000, according to Froman’s financial disclosure
documents.  ‘Every Penny’  Froman testified today that he paid “every penny that was
due” in taxes from the investment fund.  Froman is the third cabinet-level pick this year to
disclose offshore holdings, sparking criticism from Senate
Republicans.  Hatch said he will consider Froman on his merits. He said
Obama was being hypocritical after accusing Republican
presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  last year of dodging taxes by
stashing money overseas. He said Froman’s bonuses at Citigroup
during the financial bailout add to the hypocrisy, as Obama also
faulted Wall Street payouts at that time.  Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican who sits on
the panel, said today he will send Froman written questions
about his offshore investment and bonuses before voting. He will
ask Froman to disclose whether the White House ever raised
concerns about a Cayman Islands investment Obama once called
“the largest tax scam in the world,” according to a statement.  ‘Double Standard’  “The White House and the nominee should help Congress and
the public understand the president’s double standard,”
Grassley said without saying how he will vote on the nomination.  Treasury Secretary Jack Lew was called to account for
$56,000 in a Cayman Islands account at his confirmation hearing,
although he won confirmation Feb. 27 on a 71-26 vote.  Last month, Republicans on the Commerce panel vowed tough
questioning of Pritzker after she disclosed $53.6 million in
consulting-fee income last year from a trust in the Bahamas, run
by CIBC Trust Co. However, Pritzker --  whose family founded
 Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H)  and who was the finance chairman of Obama’s
2008 campaign -- faced one question on the subject at her
hearing and panel Republicans predict she’ll be confirmed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  