-- Tocardo Targets 20 Megawatts of Water Power After Repsol Deal
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-06-06T15:14:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/tocardo-targets-20-megawatts-of-water-power-after-repsol-deal.html
Tocardo BV International, a Dutch
maker of turbines that generate power from water, expects to
install 20 megawatts of its devices by mid-2015 after signing
deals with  Repsol SA (REP)  and a unit of Rabobank Group.  The agreements with Repsol and Climex BV, Rabobank’s clean
energy and carbon trading arm, enable Tocardo to accelerate
installation of its first 20 megawatts of systems in near-shore
and river locations across Asia, the U.S. and Europe, Hans Van
Breugel, chief executive officer of the Den Oever-based company,
said in a telephone interview.  The company, which has a testing facility in the
Netherlands, has already supplied turbines for a river project
in Nepal and plans to supply turbines to  Japan  as part of a deal
with Spectol Power Design Co. It aims to deploy its first
machines in Europe and North America in 12 to 14 months, Van
Breugel said.  “We are at the start of a very large industry,” the CEO
said. “We have strategic partners that moved us from the second
division to premier league.”  The manufacturer aims to tap into the growing market for
clean electricity as countries from the U.S. to  China  strive to
slash polluting greenhouse gas emissions and meet 2020 renewable
energy targets by harnessing power from the wind, sun and water.  Tocardo expects to reach grid parity, where the cost of
power from its turbines will be equal to or less than the cost
of power from the grid, in three to five years, according to Van
Breugel. In “good locations” its river turbines already have
reached grid parity and don’t always need government support, he
said.  While the turbine maker doesn’t need to raise any money,
it’s seeking funds on a project level. It’s talking to small
local developers, utilities and large companies for this, the
CEO said. Typically the company’s technology costs $3.5 million
to $7 million a megawatt, he said. There is “much more”
investor appetite in Asia than in Europe because of the lack of
energy in the region, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  