-- Off S&P 500, Heinz Could Recommit to Founder’s Vision
-- B y   G a b r i e l l a   M .   P e t r i c k
-- 2013-06-06T20:09:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/off-s-p-500-heinz-could-recommit-to-founder-s-vision.html
When U.S. stock trading begins
tomorrow, H.J. Heinz Co. will no longer be listed on the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Another iconic U.S. company,
General Motors Co., will take its place.  Although Heinz has been a corporation since 1905, it was
largely controlled by the founding family until 1987, when Tony
O’Reilly became the first outsider to be named chairman. In
February,  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and  Jorge Paulo Lemann ’s 3G Capital Inc. said they would buy the company
for $23 billion. Back in private hands, the company should carry
forward the founder’s vision of both profit and service to
society.  Beginning in 1880, new technologies introduced large-scale
manufacturing and started to transform what Americans ate. This
transition to foods made outside of the home sometimes resulted
in adulteration of the type described in Upton Sinclair’s “ The
Jungle .” At the same time, the discovery of the toxic effects of
various chemicals reported by  Harvey Wiley ’s “poison squad”
studies heightened fears that there was something fundamentally
wrong with the food supply.  Heinz, however, developed as a large industrial food
processor by building consumer trust based on the belief of its
founder, Henry Heinz, that crafting unadulterated foods was a
moral obligation.  Bottled Horseradish  Born to German parents in 1844, Heinz started out by
selling bottled horseradish out of the basement of his family’s
home in Sharpsburg,  Pennsylvania . His business quickly outgrew
the family farm and he began larger-scale commercial production
with  L.C. Noble  in 1869. By 1872, the company occupied a large
factory on Pittsburgh’s Northside. By the beginning of the 20th
century, it was one of the largest U.S. food processors.  Before World War I, canned foods were still a novelty, as
well as a potential health hazard because of inadequate
sterilization. Heinz emphasized purity in his products, at his
factory and among his employees. He carefully selected the men
and women he hired to sell and serve his goods in order to
convey the message that Heinz products “were the best that money
could buy.”  Slogans such as “57 good things” to eat and “pure food”
were designed to reassure women that Heinz’s food wouldn’t cause
illness. As the academic  Miles Orvell  suggests, the rise of
large corporations where strangers manufactured products for the
masses intensified the public’s resolve to separate the real
from the fake in their food, and to distinguish the pure from
the poison.  Heinz products weren’t cheap adulterated concoctions: They
were made with fresh fruit and vegetables, combined with pure
sugar, salt or vinegar. Customer satisfaction was guaranteed in
every item.  To ensure that its baked beans, ketchup and other products
met internally defined standards, the company grew its own
vegetables. In 1900,  Heinz  owned more than 16,000 acres of land,
where it oversaw its cultivation. On its farms, Heinz even
specified the particular varieties of tomatoes and onions that
managers planted. Once harvested, these crops were partially
processed in branch factories close to the fields, reducing the
spoilage caused by transporting them almost 700 miles to
Pittsburgh from the Midwest.  This ensured that vegetables were processed as close to
their peak flavor as possible. Workers at the branch factory
carefully sorted tomatoes and removed spoiled ones to help
ensure the quality of the product.  Heinz (HNZ)  controlled the quality
of its foods by specifying farming practices such as plant
variety, planting time, weeding methods and harvest time.  ‘Perfect Tomatoes’  According to an internal publication about ketchup:
“Perfect tomatoes for the purpose cannot be satisfactorily
obtained on the open market, and therefore H.J. Heinz Company
supervises the cultivation of its own tomatoes from the very
selection of the seed and the preparation of the soil.”  Henry Heinz also controlled the purity of his products by
managing its employees. Attempting to prevent contamination of
products by workers, he required them to change into clean
uniforms before beginning work -- sanitary white for men and
blue and white striped dresses with white aprons for women. The
company also provided showers in the locker rooms so workers
could bathe regularly, not a common practice in the early 20th
century.  Women who handled food received weekly treatments from the
company manicurist. Dirty hands and nails could contaminate an
entire batch of food. The modern sanitary plant that Heinz
described in corporate and promotional articles from the 1890s
through the 1920s emphasized the cleanliness of workers. The
company also offered daily tours of the Pittsburgh factory,
allowing consumers to judge for themselves.  Yet, no matter how effective it was at instilling quality
in its products, the company still needed to convince consumers
that the Heinz name was synonymous with purity. Tens of
thousands of people were able to taste its products at food
expositions, where demonstrations were performed by so-called
pickle girls.  The personal interactions of Heinz’s traveling salesmen and
pickle girls with customers and grocers contributed to America’s
transition to industrialized food. By caring for products,
talking about the virtues of Heinz pure foods and allowing the
nation taste these items, the public grew to embrace aliments
made in a factory, relegating the fear of poisoned canned foods
to the distant past.  ( Gabriella M. Petrick , professor of nutrition and food
studies and history at George Mason University, is the author of
“Industrializing Taste: Food Processing and the Transformation
of the American Diet, 1900-1965.”)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post:
Gabriella Petrick at  gpetrick@gmu.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  