-- Hog-Herd to Expand as Feed-Cost Drop Aids Profit, Meyer Says
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-06-06T18:32:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/hog-herd-to-expand-as-feed-cost-drop-aids-profit-meyer-says-1-.html
U.S. hog producers with improved
profitability will probably expand herds next year, which may
test packing capacity, said  Steve Meyer , president of Paragon
Economics.  The cost of feed will drop early next year if the U.S. corn
crop is as big as the government forecasts, according to Meyer.
Farmers will boost output of the grain by 31 percent to a record
14.14 billion bushels this year, more than doubling inventories
before the 2014 harvest, the U.S. Department of Agricultures
said May 10.  U.S. producers lost $23 per hog on average in the year
through the spring of 2013, the most severe losses since 2009,
according to  Purdue University  in  West Lafayette ,  Indiana .  “We could have costs down by the first quarter,” Meyer
told reporters at the World Pork Expo in  Des Moines ,  Iowa . “If
that’s the case, we’re set for a profitable 2014. We need a
profitable year.”  Producers will make money in the second and third quarters
of this year with spot hog prices around 90 cents to 93 cents a
pound, Meyer said in an interview. Producers are already
expanding because of the lower corn costs, Meyer said. The
breeding herd may be 1 percent bigger as of June 1 than a year
earlier, he said. The USDA is scheduled to release its quarterly
herd inventory on June 28.  The increase in sows plus the 1.5 percent increase in
litter size may boost pork production 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent
next year, Meyer said. Overall pig numbers may rise 2.5 percent,
he said.  Larger Capacity  More hog supplies put pressure on the packing industry to
expand, and the U.S. may need a new plant in the next three
years, he said. Slaughter capacity is slightly larger than last
year because of some “tweaks and changes” on a few plants
rather than additional facilities, Meyer said. Next year’s
output gains will start to push the industry near its capacity
limit, he said.  “There is a point where the packing capacity in the U.S.
becomes a limiting factor in this industry,” Meyer said. “We
need another plant a year, two years down the road.”  Meyer said hog producers should be cautious about expansion
because corn crops are still four months from being harvested.
Producers may lose money in the fourth quarter of 2013 with spot
hogs dropping to around 80 cents a pound, he said.  Corn supplies before the harvest are projected at 759
million bushels, the smallest since 1996, after the worst
drought in more than 70 years reduced production to the lowest
six years, the USDA said May 10. While the U.S. won’t run out of
corn, some hog producers may scramble for some feed, Meyer said.  “If I don’t have much equity left and I don’t know what
the corn price is going to be yet, I would think twice about
expanding,” Meyer said. “The guys putting in more sows, maybe
they’ve got plenty of equity, and they can stand behind that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  