-- Oil Rises for Second Day as Euro Gains on Draghi Comments
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-06-06T13:21:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/oil-rises-for-second-day-as-euro-gains-on-draghi-comments.html
West Texas Intermediate crude rose as
the euro strengthened to a four-week high against the dollar
after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said euro
zone economic growth should stabilize.  Oil advanced as the euro gained for a fourth day. The euro-area economy should stabilize and recover at a subdued pace in
the course of the year, Draghi said at a press conference after
a meeting in which the bank kept its  interest rates  at a record
low. Fewer Americans filed applications for  unemployment
benefits  last week, the Labor Department said.  “Once again Draghi’s words are more powerful than the
sword and he is charming the market up,” said  Phil Flynn ,
senior market analyst at the Price Futures Group in Chicago.
“Whenever he talks, the euro seems to listen, and oil is
following the euro.”  WTI for July delivery increased 69 cents, or 0.7 percent,
to $94.43 a barrel at 9:12 a.m. on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange. London time. The volume of all futures traded was 7
percent above the 100-day average.  Brent for July settlement slid 3 cents to $103.01 a barrel
on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Volume was 24
percent below the 100-day average for the time of day. The
European benchmark grade’s premium over WTI narrowed to $8.58
from from $9.30 yesterday.  Rate Unchanged  The ECB’s Governing Council today left its  main refinancing
rate  at 0.5 percent after reducing it by a quarter point last
month, as predicted by 57 of 59 forecasts in a Bloomberg News
 survey  of economists. Draghi said that policy makers discussed
taking the ECB’s deposit rate below zero before leaving it at
zero.  “The ECB kept rates unchanged and said they are going to
keep things accommodative,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and
broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The
dollar is under pressure. Oil is trying to make another high.”  The euro strengthened as much as 0.6 percent to $1.3166,
the highest level since May 9. A stronger euro and weaker dollar
increase dollar-denominated oil’s appeal as an investment
alternative.  U.S. jobless  claims  decreased by 11,000 to 346,000 in the
week ended June 1, the Labor Department reported. The median
forecast of 47 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a
drop to 345,000.  “The jobless number isn’t that much different from
expectations,” Flynn said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  