-- Homeserve Advances on Private Equity Attractions: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-06-06T11:39:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/homeserve-advances-on-private-equity-attractions-london-mover.html
Homeserve Plc (HSV) , the supplier of home
emergency services to almost  five  million households in  Europe 
and the U.S., was the best performer in the  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX) 
after Liberum Capital said the company may attract private
equity buyers.  The  shares  rose as much as 14 percent, the most since the
Walsall, England-based company published annual results on May
21. The stock was 10 percent higher at 271 pence at 12:18 p.m.
in  London , heading for the highest closing price in four months.
The volume of shares traded was 45 percent more than the three-month daily average.  Full-year results gave some reassurance that Homeserve will
deliver “stability” and perhaps growth,’’ Joe Brent, an
analyst at Liberum in London, wrote in a note to clients today.
The company is also “approaching an end game” with the U.K.
regulator over telephone misselling, wrote Brent, who reiterated
his  hold  rating on the stock.  “The combination of these two things makes Homeserve more
attractive to a  private equity  buyer, who would value the
relative resilience of the U.K. and the growth of overseas,”
Brent wrote.  Private Equity  The Financial Times today reported there had been
“theories” about potential private equity interest, without
saying where it got the information.  Homeserve, under investigation by the Financial Services
Authority for more than a year over inappropriate telephone
selling practices, said last month it had set aside 6 million
pounds ($9 million) for a possible fine and related costs. That
would be less than analysts had expected, according to a note at
the time by Panmure Gordon.  The shares have halved since their peak two years ago,
falling 56 percent in 12 days after saying in October 2011 it
was suspending telephone sales.  The company now has more than half its business outside the
U.K. and expects to have more customers in the U.S. than in
Britain by 2015, Chief Executive Officer Richard Harpin said in
a telephone interview on May 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  