-- LME Chief Abbott Plans to Leave After $2.2 Billion Takeover
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-06-07T09:27:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/london-metal-exchange-chief-abbott-plans-to-leave-at-end-of-year.html
London  Metal Exchange Chief Executive
Officer Martin Abbott will depart at the end of the year after
the sale of the world’s biggest industrial-metals bourse to Hong
Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. for $2.2 billion.  A successor will be announced “in due course,” the LME
said in a statement yesterday. Abbott, 53, also resigned as Hong
Kong Exchanges & Clearing’s co-head of global markets. Shares of
the Hong Kong bourse fell for a fifth day, declining by 0.9
percent to HK$126.40.  Abbott became CEO in 2006, overseeing a period of expansion
that drove annual turnover to $14.5 trillion from $4.5 trillion
in the year before he took over. The 136-year-old exchange,
which counts Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
among its members, now handles more than 80 percent of global
trading in industrial-metals futures. He won 99 percent
shareholder backing to sell the bourse to Hong Kong Exchanges
last year.  “The exchange significantly developed during his tenure,”
said Jim Coupland, global co-head of commodities at Standard
Bank Group Ltd. and a former LME board member. “The sale price
is one measure of the success of the exchange over recent years.
I will remember him as a real asset who demonstrated real
industry knowledge and a passion for the business. He will be
missed.”  The LME, founded above a hat shop in London’s financial
district, had operated independently since it started trading
tin and copper in 1877. It later added aluminum, nickel, lead,
zinc, cobalt and steel. The exchange monitors a global network
of more than 700 warehouses and plans to run its own clearing
house from next year.  Open Outcry  It operates London’s last open outcry trading floor, a 6-meter-wide (20-foot) trading pit that handled about 20 percent
of transactions in 2010. Its origins are in the Jerusalem Coffee
House in the financial district where metals traders would meet
in the early 19th century.  “It’s a good time for me to go out and start again
somewhere else,” Abbott said in a phone interview from London.
“If you’ve been effectively running the show and then you sell
the show to a much bigger company, it’s not going to be the same
any more. There are plenty of people here with the experience
and talent necessary to run the LME.”  Abbott said he will seek another executive position, while
he hasn’t thought about the next step yet nor had time to go
job-hunting. He declined to comment on who may succeed him at
the LME.  Abbott opened the LME’s first overseas office in  Singapore 
in 2010 and sought to expand the exchange’s business through new
products, including mini-contracts in copper, zinc and aluminum
in Singapore. Hong Kong Exchanges beat rival bids from CME Group
Inc., Intercontinental Exchange Inc. and NYSE Euronext.  Waiting Times  Not all of his innovations worked. The LME withdrew its
plastics contracts in April 2011 because of a lack of trading
and merged the Far East and Mediterranean steel contracts in
2010.  While the exchange’s volumes and revenues gained, LME users
have complained about long waits in warehouses monitored by the
bourse, which are helping drive premiums for metals from
aluminum to copper higher. The LME tried to address the
complaints by increasing load-out rates and introducing special
delivery requirements. Warehousing is a “perennial issue” for
the LME and had nothing to do with his resignation, Abbott said.  “From the day that he joined the LME he was a passionate
and extremely competent CEO,” said London-based Michael Overlander, the CEO of Sucden Financial Ltd. and a former LME
board member. “This warehousing situation was not of his doing,
it just happened to occur on his watch. He’ll be remembered more
for what he managed to achieve for the LME than for other
matters.”  Pub Stint  Abbott’s career took him from running a pub when he
finished a law degree at Leicester University in central  England 
to a decade-long stay in  Connecticut  that ended with him
becoming president of AMM LLC, a publisher of information on the
metals industry. Jobs as a student included working at an
opencast coal pit near the northern English city of Leeds.  A three-month stint as a security guard in 1982 took him to
Leadenhall Street, where the LME would move to 12 years later.
It wasn’t until 1984 that he had his first sight of the trading
ring, on his first day as a reporter at Metal Bulletin, a news
and data service which he joined from Drapers Record, a fashion
magazine where he worked as an advertising salesman and then a
reporter.  Metals Dominance  The LME will become even more dominant in metals in five
years, Abbott said. The bourse will move to its own clearing
platform on Sept. 22, 2014, after 25 years with LCH.Clearnet
Group Ltd., it said this week. Own clearing will take the bourse
into a “new chapter” and Hong Kong’s proximity to mainland
 China  “will pay dividends,” Abbott said.  “When I joined the LME Select system used to fall over
three times a week and everyone thought the LME was a bit of a
backwater and not really a major league player,” Abbott said.
“And I’m really proud that we stabilized the systems and we got
ourselves to a position that people understood that we were
shoulder to shoulder with other market places.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  