-- Mongolia Opens $122 Million Wind Farm With Aim to Cut Pollution
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K o h n
-- 2013-06-06T01:37:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/mongolia-opens-122-million-wind-farm-with-aim-to-cut-pollution.html
Mongolia  is scheduled to start
operations at its first wind farm this month, a $122 million
project that’s the biggest power plant in 30 years and part of a
government effort to cap pollution cloaking the capital city.  The 50-megawatt facility developed by Clean Energy LLC
using 31 turbines from  General Electric Co. (GE)  is located on a
wind-raked ridge about 45 miles (72 kilometers) southwest of
Ulaanbaatar. Sengee Enkh-Amgalan, the company’s chief executive
officer, plans to officially start the plant on June 20.  Mongolia is seeking alternatives to fossil fuels such as
coal that power its industry and mines. The government has set a
target to get 20 percent to 25 percent of its energy from
renewables by 2020, up from less than 2 percent currently. Coal
supplies about 80 percent of the nation’s energy.  “In order to meet the 20 percent goal, the government
really has to support these kinds of enterprises,” said Enkh-Amgalan, adding that he expects the government will subsidize
the costs of wind power in order to make it affordable.  Smog from burning coal has choked the capital in recent
months, causing the  World Health Organization  to name
Ulaanbaatar the second-worst city for  air quality  behind Ahvaz
in western  Iran . Residents use coal to heat homes when winter
temperatures plunge to minus 30 Fahrenheit.  Clean Energy says the wind park will save 122,000 tons of
coal, 1.6 million tons of water and will eliminate 180,000 tons
of carbon dioxide emissions each year.  Purchase Agreements  Clean Energy’s parent company, Newcom Group, established
Mongolia’s first mobile phone operator, Mobicom, and helped
revive the nation’s airline industry by establishing  Eznis
Airways , according to its website.  The government agreed to a power purchase agreement with
Clean Energy, which will receive 9.5 cents a kilowatt-hour for
power from the wind for the lifetime of the project. The company
expects to recoup its investment in 14 years.  Enkh-Amgalan says the power station can produce 140 million
to 160 million kilowatt-hours per year, which gives the plant
revenue of $15 million per year.  “We expect that by the end of next year tariff prices will
be liberalized,” said Enkh-Amgalan, a graduate of  California ’s
Monterrey Institute of International Studies. “We’re not sure
how it will be, but there is a certain commitment from the
government that the tariffs will increase. This process is
happening but slowly.”  Turbines at the plant will last about 20 years, said Enkh-Amgalan, after which time the current 1.6-megawatt turbines may
need to be replaced. By then, he expects turbines may generate
as much as 7 megawatts each, which would triple the output.  Roads, Grid  The biggest challenge so far has been dealing with
Mongolia’s lack of infrastructure. A similar project in  China 
would cost 30 percent less said Enkh-Amgalan, due to the vast
distances and lack of roads in Mongolia, where most highways are
little more than vague jeep tracks across the desert.  Clean Energy  Asia  and Tokyo-based  SoftBank Corp. (9984)  have
200,000 hectares of land in the Gobi Desert and plan to
construct a wind park with a capacity of 200 megawatts to 300
megawatts, said Enkh-Amgalan.  Mining companies and towns in the region could draw power
from the facilities, or the energy could be exported on an
“Asia Super Grid” developers are sketching as a way to share
power from  Japan  to  India , he said.  Wind speeds in Salkhit average 8.2 meters per second, while
Gobi Desert speeds exceed 9 meters per second. The Gobi has the
potential to yield 11 gigawatts per year of solar energy and
300,000 megawatts of wind power, Enkh-Amgalan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Kohn in Ulaanbaatar at 
 mkohn5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  