-- Denmark Seeks to Pass Too-Big-to-Fail Bank Laws in Parts
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-06-07T09:39:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/too-big-to-fail-impasse-drives-denmark-to-seek-smaller-bank-bill.html
Denmark’s government is exploring the
option of splitting proposed legislation for systemically
important banks into smaller parts to ease its passage through
parliament.  After opposition lawmakers refused to back proposals put
forward by a government-appointed committee in March, the
Business Ministry now says it may need to abandon its goal of
pushing a single bill for too-big-to-fail banks through the
legislature.  “I’m prepared for the likelihood that we won’t be able to
solve all the challenges to do with regulating systemically
important financial institutions at this point,” Business
Minister Annette Vilhelmsen said yesterday in an e-mailed reply
to questions.  The Sifi committee identified Denmark’s six biggest banks,
led by  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  and mortgage lender Nykredit A/S, as
systemically important to the $300 billion economy and said they
should hold as much as 5 percentage points in extra capital. Yet
lawmakers have failed to find common ground over reserve
requirements, splitting parliament as banks try to anticipate
future regulatory standards.  “There are some fundamental issues around how to treat
Sifis in a crisis, meaning that we ought to wait to see the
outcome of ongoing talks in the European Union,” Vilhelmsen
said. “It’s important that we get started with our Sifi
regulation now.”  Loss-Absorbing  Opposition lawmakers are questioning the committee’s
proposal that Sifis convert debt into loss-absorbing equity once
their regulatory buffers breach a 10.125 percent threshold, a
level banks say is too high. Parliamentarians have also been
split over how explicit  Denmark  should be in its provision of
state guarantees for banks deemed too big to fail.  “The minister is addressing our concerns,” Brian Mikkelsen, business spokesman for the opposition Conservative
Party, said in a telephone interview. “She’s moving in the
right direction.”  Denmark’s efforts to move ahead with Sifi legislation put
it at the forefront of a regulatory drive in the European Union,
where such laws have yet to be formulated. It’s not the first
time the Nordic nation has moved before the rest of the EU in
setting bank laws. In 2010, Denmark became the first EU member
to pass a bill ensuring senior bank creditors get bailed in
should a lender fail. The industry has argued the legislation
damaged its access to funding markets, while the government says
it helped protect taxpayers from losses.  State Burden  Denmark’s Sifis, which also include  Jyske Bank A/S (JYSK) ,  Sydbank
A/S (SYDB) , mortgage lender BRFkredit A/S and the Danish unit of Nordea
Bank AB, say they need to be shielded from Danish bail-in laws
for their designation to be meaningful. The government and
central bank counter that such a step would encourage banks to
take greater risks and place too big a burden on the state.  The Social Democrat-led government of Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt says Denmark needs stricter bank laws to
protect it from losses in an industry whose combined assets are
about four times the nation’s gross domestic product. Danske
Bank alone has  assets  that are almost twice the size of the
Danish economy.  Lingering Uncertainty  While Vilhelmsen said Sifi proposals may need to be split
into several bills, members of the three-party coalition she
represents disagree. The Social Democrats and Social Liberals
will continue to fight for a single bill, their business
committee representatives said.  “I’m hoping we can still come together and agree on a full
package,” said Andreas Steenberg, business policy spokesman for
the Social Liberal Party. “It’s important to get these rules
sorted out together as they set the bar for what Danish banks
pay to fund their business. Any lingering uncertainty won’t help
anyone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  