-- Orascom’s Zimbabwe Unit Seeks Higher Revenue With Mobile Banking
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 2013-06-06T04:15:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/orascom-s-zimbabwe-unit-seeks-higher-revenue-with-mobile-banking.html
Telecel Zimbabwe Ltd. , a unit of
Orascom Telecom Holdings Ltd., sees an opportunity expanding
banking services via mobile phones as it seeks to generate
higher revenue per user, General Manager Angeline Vere said.  “We have all seen how mobile banking can allow unbanked
people into the mainstream economy and how it can drive growth
for the whole economy,” Vere said yesterday by e-mail. “We
believe it is an area of opportunity.”  Telecel, with 2.5 million subscribers, is the country’s
largest telecommunications operator after Econet Wireless
Holdings Zimbabwe Ltd. and also competes with state-owned
NetOne. With Zimbabwe’s mobile teledensity at 97 percent, the
company is focusing on data offerings to win more customers and
retain existing ones who may spend more, she said.  “You can also look at the average revenue that a
subscriber can generate and improve your profitability even if
your subscriber numbers are not growing,” she said. “This is
done through offering additional value-added services that
maximize usage of the network, especially data-based services.”  While Econet and NetOne operate mobile-money platforms,
Telecel discontinued its service in 2011 though its customers
can still send and receive cash through the Zimswitch network,
which is managed by a separate company.  Figures on mobile-phone usage in  Zimbabwe  are distorted by
the prevalence of people using numerous subscriber-identity
modules, known as SIM cards, signaling there’s room for further
growth in the industry, she said.  Quality Subscribers  “The official figures point to high levels of penetration,
but we are also aware that there are very high levels of
multiple SIMs in this market,” Vere said. “There is still room
for improvement especially in terms of the quality of subscriber
one can attract and have on their network.”  The company is engaged in talks about the sale of a
majority stake of the company to black Zimbabwean investors, she
said. The state introduced a law in 2010 requiring all foreign
and white-owned businesses to sell or cede 51 percent of their
ownership to black citizens.  “Efforts are currently underway among the shareholders to
resolve this issue and it is being given the necessary
priority,” Vere said.  Zimbabwe may  revoke  Telecel’s license unless it gives the
majority of shares to local shareholders, the state-controlled
Herald newspaper reported on May 31, citing Transport,
Communications and Infrastructure Minister Nicholas Goche.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Johannesburg at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  