-- Morgan Stanley Sees Profit Surprise for Nifty: Corporate India
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i   a n d   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-06-07T06:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/morgan-stanley-sees-profit-surprise-for-nifty-corporate-india.html
Earnings growth at  India ’s largest
companies may exceed analysts’ forecasts as input and interest
costs drop and the economy recovers from the slowest expansion
in a decade, Morgan Stanley and Reliance Mutual Fund predict.  Profit for the 50 companies on the  CNX Nifty Index (NIFTY)  may
expand about 16 percent to 18 percent in the year to March 31,
said  Ridham Desai , managing director and head of India research
at Morgan Stanley. Net income growth at the 30 firms comprising
the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex has the “potential of surprising”
the 12 percent to 15 percent increase forecast by analysts,
according to Sunil Singhania, head of equities at Reliance
Capital Asset Management Ltd.  Expectations of a rebound in earnings have risen after
inflation slowed to  41-month low  in April and as the  Reserve
Bank  of India cut  interest rates  last month for a third time
this year, extending the only reduction in benchmark borrowing
costs in 2013 in the BRIC group of the largest emerging nations.
India’s  economy  grew 4.8 percent in the January-March quarter
from a year earlier, up from a revised 4.7 percent the previous
quarter, data showed May 31.  “The macro is a lot better, inflation is coming off and
growth is getting better,” Desai said in Mumbai on June 4.
“The earnings trajectory has been getting slightly better in
the last two to three quarters. We’re seeing a big recovery in
earnings over the next 12 months, a pretty counter-consensus
view. We’ve seen the bottom.”  ‘Fewer Disappointments’  Profit at just eight, or 27 percent, of the 30 companies in
the benchmark  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)   missed  forecasts for the March
quarter, compared with 43 percent in the three months through
December and 40 percent in the previous two quarters, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Fewer number of companies disappointed this March than in
the last four quarters,” Singhania of Reliance Mutual Fund, the
nation’s second-biggest money manager with $17 billion in
assets, said in a June 3 interview. “With declining commodity
prices and falling interest rates things should start to improve
on the bottom line from June.”  The Sensex has jumped 7.6 percent from a seven-month low on
April 9 as inflation eased and prices of oil, India’s biggest
import, fell. The Standard & Poor’s  GSCI (SPGSCI)  gauge of 24 raw
materials has fallen about 7.8 percent from this year’s high in
February as slowing Chinese growth hurt demand for commodities.  Brent crude  has slid 6.7 percent in 2013 while gold has
lost 16 percent. Declines in oil and bullion may help reduce
India’s import costs by almost $7 billion in the year to March
2014, Barclays Plc said in an April 17 note.  ‘Worst Over’  “The worst is over on an aggregate” for company profits,
Rukhshad Shroff, an investment manager and India country
specialist at JPMorgan Asset Management, said in an interview
broadcast on Bloomberg TV India today. “We have seen a very
savage downgrade in earnings over the last two years.”  Still, a further drop in the rupee, which yesterday fell to
57 to a dollar for the first time in a year, may increase the
cost of importing raw materials.  The currency “can be volatile given what’s happening
globally and to other emerging market currencies,” Sam Mahtani,
who oversees about $5 billion as director of  emerging markets  at
F&C Asset Management Plc, said in an interview to Bloomberg TV
India yesterday. Should inflation accelerate “there could be
little bit more pressure on the currency.”  Profits at companies including  Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR) , a
unit of the world’s second-biggest consumer-goods company, and
 Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM) , the largest producer of sport-utility
vehicles, exceeded estimates in the March quarter, helped by
lower raw-material costs.  ‘Margin Expansion’  “The key takeaway from the latest quarter is that margins
are improving and that is likely to continue” as interest-rate
cuts pare companies’ borrowing costs, Desai of Morgan Stanley
said. “Margin expansion will be the key driver of earnings.”  The aggregate Sensex operating profit margin increased 20
basis points from a year earlier to 16.6 percent in the three
months ended March after narrowing for the past three quarters,
Bank of America Corp. wrote in a report dated June 5.  The brokerage still predicts per-share earnings for the 30
Sensex firms to grow 8 percent to 1,260 rupees in the year
ending March 2014, compared with the consensus estimate of a 14-percent expansion, according to the report.  The Sensex has risen 18 percent in the past 12 months, the
best performance among benchmark stock indexes in the BRIC group
that includes Brazil, Russia and  China . The Indian gauge trades
at 13.5 times 12-month projected profits, about 24 percent less
than its  valuation  in November 2010 when the measure rose to an
all-time high, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  GDP Outlook  “Valuation is not at all a problem for the market and most
of our valuation indicators are suggesting pretty strong returns
for equities,”  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s Desai said. The bank has a
year-end target of 23,000 for the Sensex, he added. The gauge
climbed 0.8 percent to 19,679.50 at 12:14 p.m.  Morgan Stanley expects India’s  gross domestic product  to
expand 6 percent in the 12 months to March. GDP  climbed  a
decade-low 5 percent in the year ended March, below the 10-year
average of about 8 percent, official data showed May 31.  The Sensex climbed to more than a two-year high on May 17
as foreign funds accelerated purchases of Indian shares after
central banks from  Europe  to  Australia  cut borrowing costs to
bolster economic growth, boosting demand for emerging-market
assets, and as the drop in commodity costs improved the outlook
on the state of India’s public finances.  ‘Best Position’  Foreigners have bought a net $15.3 billion worth of Indian
shares in 2013, a record for the period and the second-largest
among 10 Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg, behind  Japan . They
purchased a net $3.8 billion of stock in May, the most in three
months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “India is in the best position,” said Singhania, whose
 Reliance Growth Fund (RELGROF)  has beaten 98 percent of its peers over the
past decade. “We have a surge in liquidity -- we need those
dollars -- and we have soft commodity prices. For the first time
in years we are seeing commodities soften despite a surge in
liquidity, which points to the fact that commodities are
fundamentally weak.”  Falling input costs will lead the revival in earnings,
according to Sundaram Mutual Fund, which manages $2.6 billion of
assets.  “The recovery, initially, might be more bottom line led as
you see the benefits of lower commodity prices coming through to
the margins,” S. Krishnakumar, head of equities at Sundaram
Mutual, said by phone on June 5 from Chennai in Southern India.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 