-- House Panel Approves $637.9 Billion Defense Authorization
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-06-06T16:05:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/house-panel-approves-637-9-billion-defense-authorization.html
The U.S. House Armed Services
Committee backed $637.9 billion in  defense spending , including
the F-35 jets and Littoral Combat Ships that the Pentagon sought
and money to upgrade M1A2 Abrams tanks that it didn’t want.  The authorization measure approved early today for the
fiscal year starting Oct. 1 adds about $6.4 billion to the
Pentagon’s $79.4 billion request for wartime spending, with $5
billion of the increase designated for military readiness, which
has been reduced by automatic cuts known as sequestration.  The bill, scheduled to be voted on by the full House next
week, provides $526.6 billion in annual Pentagon  spending , $17.8
billion for  Department of Energy  defense-related programs, $7.7
billion in mandatory military benefits and $85.8 billion in
wartime spending, according to the committee’s summary. The
panel authorized spending $99.6 billion for weapons systems,
$1.4 billion more than requested.  In the debate over how to combat sexual assaults in the
military, the committee approved language that would bar
commanding officers from overturning court-martial verdicts in
such cases. It also adopted an amendment by Representative
Jackie Speier, a California Democrat, that would prevent the
officers from reducing penalties.  On weapons programs, the panel authorized spending for the
29  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-35 jets requested and four additional
Littoral Combat Ships, with two each made by Lockheed and  Austal
Ltd. (ASB)  The panel asked the Government Accountability Office
conduct an additional review of the $34 billion vessel program
in addition to two already under way.  The panel requested an independent review of the F-35’s
software, which has been identified by the Pentagon’s program
office as one of the program’s greatest risks.  Tank Upgrades  The committee added $168 million the Army didn’t request
for continued upgrades of the M1A2 tank that  General Dynamics
Corp. (GD)  performs in  Ohio . The upgraded tanks would be transferred
to the National Guard, the panel said. The push for the money
was led by Representative  Michael Turner , an  Ohio Republican ,
who heads the panel’s subcommittee on Army ground forces.  It marks the second consecutive year that funds for the
tank were added. The House last year budgeted $255 million in
the annual measure authorizing defense spending. In a compromise
with the Senate that Obama signed into law in December, the
program received $210 million for this year.  The Senate Armed Services Committee is scheduled to take
action on its version of the defense authorization measure next
week. The House defense appropriations subcommittee this week
took action on its version, which largely tracks today’s moves
by the authorizing panel.  The House authorization bill is H.R. 1960.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  