-- Carney Says House Deportation Provision Won’t Become Law
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-06-06T23:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/house-passes-border-security-funding-bill.html
House Republicans  showcased their
demands for tighter border security, voting to eliminate the
discretion that President  Barack Obama  wants to use to stop the
deportation of young people brought to the U.S. by their
undocumented parents.  White House Press Secretary  Jay Carney  said the deportation
provision inserted into a spending bill is at odds with American
values.  “It’s wrong. It’s not who we are. And it will not become
law,” he said in a press statement.  The deportation language was added to a $46.1 billion
Homeland Security Department spending measure for the next
fiscal year.  The measure, which would finance the hiring of an
additional 1,600 Border Patrol agents and increase military air-patrol efforts along the U.S.-Mexico border, was approved on a
245-182 vote.  The vote on the deportation amendment was much closer:
224-201 vote and largely along party lines..  The amendment sponsored by Iowa Republican Representative
Steve King would prohibit Obama from stopping the deportation of
undocumented immigrants brought to this country as children.  King said “the president does not have the authority to
waive immigration law, nor does he have the authority to create
it out of thin air.”  ‘Poison Pill’  Obama issued that order last year after he was unsuccessful
in persuading Congress to pass the Dream Act, legislation that
would enable undocumented immigrants brought to this country as
children to achieve citizenship if they get a college degree or
serve in the military.  Representative  David Price , a North Carolina Democrat,
called King’s amendment a  “poison pill” that would “destroy
bipartisan support” for the legislation.  House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer of  Maryland  said most
Democrats would have supported the spending bill if not for
King’s add-on.  The amendment would bar the use of funds to enforce
directives issued by John T. Morton, the director of the
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency to prioritize
enforcement of different classes of undocumented immigrants.  The debate over border security and detention of deportable
undocumented immigrants was a preview of a bigger debate to
come.  Larger Debate  Next week, the Senate plans to begin consideration of a
comprehensive immigration overhaul measure. It would provide an
eventual path to citizenship for an estimated 11 million
undocumented immigrants in the U.S. and set milestones for
improving security at the U.S. border.  The House amendment on deportation is unlikely to be
adopted in the Democratically-controlled Senate, where Majority
Whip Richard Durbin of  Illinois  called it “mean-spirited.”  A bipartisan group of House members say they hope to unveil
a competing immigration plan this month. The House Judiciary
Committee also is considering individual pieces of legislation
to address issues such as border security and enforcing
sanctions against employers for hiring undocumented immigrants.  During the House debate, Democrats sought unsuccessfully to
scale back a program that relies on local police to help enforce
immigration laws.  Price, the top Democrat on Appropriation’s homeland
security subcommittee, argued it was “prone to abuse” by
police who use racial profiling to identify undocumented
immigrants.  Price also questioned the cost efficiency of the
program, saying deportations cost more than $30,000 per
immigrant under the program as opposed to $1,500  under a
parallel effort.  Immigrant Detention  Democrats tried without success to strip a provision that
would require the Obama administration to maintain a minimum of
34,000 beds in immigration detention facilities.  The administration was criticized by House Republicans for
releasing more than 2,200 undocumented immigrants from detention
in February. Republicans charged that the administration was
endangering local communities to protest the implementation of
automatic spending cuts. Morton told a House committee that none
of those released were dangerous criminals.  Price said that most detainees don’t pose a threat to
public safety and can be more inexpensively monitored by
immigration authorities if they were released from custody.  The  measure would also provide an additional $6.2 billion
for the disaster relief fund to supplement the $11 billion
already at the disposal of the  Federal Emergency Management
Agency  to deliver assistance to areas devastated by storms such
as the tornadoes that ripped through  Oklahoma  last month.  Price Tag  Including the provision raised the measure’s total price
tag to $46.1 billion, or $13.7 billion less than what Congress
enacted in the current fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30.  The House adopted an amendment sponsored by Louisiana
Republican Bill Cassidy that would prevent FEMA from spending
any money to increase the premiums on subsidized flood-insurance
policies by declaring more properties at high risk for flooding.
In 2012 Congress mandated that FEMA start phasing out subsidies
for flood-insurance. Such subsidies account for about 20 percent
of the 5.5 million policies underwritten by the program.  The spending measure also would reduce funding for the
 Transportation Security Administration , created after the 9/11
terrorist attacks to screen cargo and passengers at airports and
seaports, by $175 million from the 2013 spending level. The
total includes $3.8 billion for screening and $1 billion to
support  aviation security .  Lawmakers adopted an amendment by Florida Republican
Representative  John Mica  that would transfer an additional $32
million to a program to promote privatized airport screening of
passengers at 12 local airports, including  San Francisco  and
 Kansas City , where private contractors operate the security
checkpoints. That’s in addition to $163 million the legislation
would provide for hiring private contractors to replace TSA
screeners at local airports.  Exceeds Request  The $10.6 billion for the Customs and Border Protection
agency is $35 million more than President Barack Obama requested
in his fiscal 2014 budget plan and would finance a total of
21,730 Border Patrol agents and more than 22,800 Customs
officers.  “We can’t let our front-line security lapse,” House
Appropriations Committee Chairman, Representative Hal Rogers, a
Kentucky Republican, said in the floor debate. “The terrible
attack at the  Boston  Marathon underscored the need to support
key readiness programs, provide heroic first responders with the
funding and equipment they deserve, and improve intelligence and
threat-targeting so we can help avoid terrible attacks like
Boston in the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  