-- How Xi Will Test Obama’s Resolve on Chinese Aggression
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-06-06T19:12:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/how-xi-will-test-obama-s-resolve-on-chinese-aggression.html
When Chinese President Xi Jinping
sits down with U.S. President  Barack Obama  tomorrow, he will be
mulling a question that has puzzled China’s leaders and public
for decades: Just how aggressive will a U.S. administration be
in defending its Pacific allies from Chinese aggression?  It is hardly a theoretical question. Consider that last
December, when China and Japan appeared closest to military
conflict over territorial claims in the  East China Sea , the
influential Communist Party-owned Global Times newspaper  offered
a curious explanation  for why China could not back down from the
escalation: “The Chinese public will not allow such a retreat. A
new reality has been formed surrounding the Diaoyu conflict. It
is impossible to turn back.”  Only a few months earlier, perceived Japanese incursions on
Chinese territorial claims  spurred anti-Japanese riots  with
 fierce, anti-government undertones . The message to the ruling
Communist Party, just months away from turning power over to Xi,
was clear: Pursue a more aggressive foreign policy or risk
aggravating a public that is already  fed up with corruption and
incompetence .  Xi is now firmly in power, but the memory of those riots
lingers, as do the disputes with not just  Japan  but also the
Philippines and other U.S. allies. And while, for decades it was
a foregone conclusion that a U.S. response to Chinese aggression
would be stalwart and immediate, especially if China threatened
 Taiwan , things have changed. China’s foreign policy goals are
even grander -- the country claims sovereignty over almost the
 entirety of the South China Sea  -- yet its means of achieving
them are seemingly more incremental (than, say, an invasion of
Taiwan). The conflict with Japan concerns a set of  uninhabited
rocky islands  notable for the (alleged) oil reserves beneath
them. The  conflict with the Philippines  is over fishing grounds.  In both instances, Xi enjoys widespread public support --
from a hawkish military and the public -- to maintain diplomatic
and military pressure to “recover” the territories in question.
In the case of the  Philippines  and the disputed Scarborough
Shoal (a large underwater reef and fishing ground), China has
largely succeeded by  permanently stationing ships  in the area
and daring the Philippines -- and anyone else -- to do something
about it.  The Obama administration’s vaunted  “pivot”  to  Asia , and its
reallocation of diplomatic and military assets, is designed in
part to meet China’s incremental but relentless drive to extend
its sovereignty. In the short and medium terms, the pivot might
succeed in slowing the expansion of Chinese power. But in the
long term, it’s probably not lost on Xi or Obama that the
political argument for extending Chinese sovereignty seems to
resonate more strongly in  China  than the political argument for
pushing back against China resonates in the U.S. As a result,
the age-old question -- how far the U.S. is willing to go to
back its Pacific allies -- appears to be slowly being answered
in a way that favors China’s patient, long-term goals.  (Adam Minter is the Shanghai correspondent for the World
View blog and a contributor to the Ticker.  Follow  him on
Twitter.)
 