-- Palestinians Name Banker Bishara as Finance Minister
-- B y   F a d w a   H o d a l i   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-06-06T17:04:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/palestinians-name-banker-bishara-as-finance-minister.html
Palestinian President  Mahmoud Abbas 
appointed Shukri Bishara, a banker, as finance minister in a
Cabinet shuffle brought about by the resignation of former Prime
Minister Salam Fayyad.  Abbas also named new education, health and transportation
ministers, as well as other Cabinet posts, at a ceremony in
Ramallah today. Bishara, previously chief executive officer of
the Amman, Jordan-based  Housing Bank for Trade and Finance ,
replaces former Finance Minister Nabil Qassis, who resigned in
March.  Bishara will be “watched closely by others as he holds a
very sensitive position,” Naser Abdel Karim, an economist at
Bir Zeit University in the  West Bank , said by phone. “The
deformed economy creates great challenges for him.”  Abbas needs to retain the confidence of international donor
nations, who contribute half of the Palestinian Authority’s
budget and want to know their money is being used for legitimate
purposes. Fayyad, a University of Texas-educated economist for
the  International Monetary Fund , fulfilled that role until his
resignation in April, warning that the government was in an
unsustainable financial position.  Bishara was most recently chairman of a financial advisory
company, AIMS, in the Jordanian capital and previously vice-chairman of Palestine Electric Co. He has a Bachelors degree in
economics from the American University of Beirut and earned a
Masters in economics at  University College London .  The IMF said in March that the Palestinian Authority’s
ability to govern is being eroded by its financial difficulties.
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  said at a conference in
Jordan on May 27 that a new plan being developed by Israelis and
Palestinians could attract $4 billion in foreign investment to
bolster the economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fadwa Hodali in Ramallah at 
 fhodali@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  