-- Pemex Negotiating $780 Million Funding for Gas Expansion
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2013-06-07T00:03:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/pemex-negotiating-780-million-funding-for-gas-expansion.html
Petroleos Mexicanos , the state-owned
oil producer, is seeking additional funding to expand gas output
and reduce Mexico’s dependence on U.S. imports.  Pemex, as the Mexico City-based company is known, wants an
extra 10 billion pesos ($780 million) to increase production by
1 billion cubic feet per day by the end of next year,  Carlos Morales , director for exploration and production, said today.  “We are committed to increasing gas output,” he said in
an interview in Cancun. “We’re in talks with the  Finance
Ministry  to obtain additional funds to invest solely in gas.”  Pemex is looking to boost output to meet rising demand from
households to steelmakers such as  Ternium SA (TX)  and  ArcelorMittal. (MT) 
Latin America’s second-largest economy has increased gas imports
from the U.S., where the shale boom has driven down prices, as
its state-owned pipelines run near capacity.  The request for more funds comes after Congress approved a
budget that fell $1.1 billion short of what Pemex originally
requested. This year’s 326 billion-peso plan for  capital
expenditures  was 4 percent below the 340 billion pesos the
company had requested.  “The funds would help reactivate some of the fields of our
portfolio such as the gas area of Veracruz, Burgos, Cinco
Presidentes, Delta del Grijalva and Lankahuasa,” Morales said.
Pemex expects “those funds as soon as this year,” he said.  The Finance Ministry probably will make a decision on the
request in the coming weeks, Morales told reporters later at the
same event. “We need to move fast on it because demand for gas
is already increasing,” he said.  Morales said that the extra funding is not required for the
deepwater gas field of Lakach, where the company estimates to
produce more than 700 million cubic feet per day, because it was
already included in the 2013 budget. The request is for projects
halted projects after the drop in gas prices, he said.  “We have the gas, there waiting, but we need the extra
funding to get it out,” Morales said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in  Mexico  City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  