-- Penn West Seen Gaining as CEO Considers Sales
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-06-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/penn-west-seen-gaining-as-ceo-considers-sales.html
Penn West Petroleum Ltd. (PWT) , the
Canadian energy producer that has dropped 58 percent in two
years, is increasing its chance for recovery by appointing a new
chief executive officer to cuts costs and weigh asset sales.  “My expectation is that the price moves higher as people
see evidence the company is being operated better,” said  Jim Hall , chief investment officer at Mawer Investment Management
Ltd. in Calgary, who helps manage more than C$16 billion ($15
billion) including Penn West shares.  At least four analysts raised their  target prices  for Penn
West yesterday after the Calgary-based producer said on June 4
that  David Roberts , former chief operating officer of  Marathon
Oil Corp. (MRO) , will replace Murray Nunns this month to head Penn
West. The company said it would cut its dividend 48 percent and
eliminate 10 percent of staff while Chairman Rick George pledged
a “huge step change” in spending. The board said it is
considering strategic alternatives including asset sales and
joint ventures.  “With a focus on cost-cutting, there’s some promise that
the assets will actually be valued at market value instead of at
a huge discount,” Sam La Bell, a Toronto-based analyst with
Veritas Investment Research Corp. who rates Penn West a buy,
said yesterday in a phone interview. The dividend reduction to
14 cents from 27 cents in the third quarter will “close the
gap” between spending and cash flow, La Bell said.  Worst Performance  Penn West ’s dividend yield of about 10 percent is the
highest among Canadian oil and gas producers with a market value
of more than C$3 billion, while its one-year share performance
is the worst, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Penn West
 fell  4.4 percent to C$10.42 yesterday in Toronto, bringing its
decline to 58 percent in the past two years.  The company was overspending to develop assets and pay a
dividend that should have been lowered or eliminated years ago,
Hall said. Roberts needs to boost capital efficiency and
downsize Penn West, he said.  “What I hope for is that he decides to realize the value
inside the company as it stands without selling it or breaking
up the company,” Hall said, valuing Penn West’s assets at as
much as C$18 a share. “Strategic alternatives is usually code
for sale. Is he a gun for hire?”  Penn West, which produces the equivalent of about 142,800
barrels of oil a day across Western Canada, may look to sell its
acreage in the Duvernay liquids-rich shale formation in  Alberta ,
its stake in the Peace River oil-sands partnership, or spin out
some of its assets into an “exploration-type company,” La Bell
said.  Financial Flexibility  “We’re going to look at every single option to increase
 shareholder value ,” George told reporters after the company’s
annual meeting in Calgary yesterday. “Having said that, we
think there’s huge value in the continuous improvement and
driving forward this company with the asset base it has.”  Roberts wasn’t available for an interview, Clayton Paradis,
a Penn West spokesman, said in an e-mail yesterday.  The dividend reduction will allow Penn West to “repair the
balance sheet,” George said at the company’s annual meeting in
Calgary yesterday.  A lower dividend was disappointing, though expected,
according to Ryan Bushell, who helps oversee C$2.1 billion at
Leon Frazer and Associates Inc. in Toronto. Calgary lawyer John Brussa, Penn West’s chairman of eight years who George replaced
in the role last month, favored a high payout to shareholders
over growth, Bushell said. George is the former CEO of Suncor
Energy Inc.,  Canada ’s largest energy company by market value.  Latest Reduction  “When we look for a commodity company, we look for one
that has a long inventory to support an ongoing payout going
forward,” Bushell said yesterday in a phone interview. “If you
blow through that inventory, you have to find more.”  The company is the latest former energy trust to lower its
dividend after  Bonavista Energy Corp. (BNP) , Enerplus Corp. and
Pengrowth Energy Corp. announced reductions of the payouts last
year, as lower gas prices crimped profits.  Penn West’s  net income  fell 73 percent to C$174 million in
2012 as revenue declined amid slumping gas prices.  Roberts comes across as a knowledgeable and “low key”
person who was once viewed as a successor to Marathon Oil Chief
Executive Officer Clarence Cazalot,  Fadel Gheit , an analyst at
Oppenheimer & Co. in  New York , said yesterday by phone.  Marathon Oil endured some stumbles during Roberts’ tenure,
including the deep-water Droshky project in the  Gulf of Mexico 
that the company said had disappointing results. Marathon Oil
could have been more of a leader in the Bakken formation in the 
U.S., Gheit said.  Marathon Oil announced last year that Roberts was resigning
to pursue other interests effective Dec. 14.  Roberts provides a “fresh set of eyes” to help the
company reduce operating costs and boost capital efficiencies,
George said. “You should see vast improvements here in the next
six months,” he said. “I would expect this company to be in a
very different place 12 months from now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  