-- Pentagon Says Cost to Retrofit F-35s Drops $500 Million
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-06-06T20:08:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/pentagon-says-cost-to-retrofit-first-f-35s-drops-by-500-million.html
The Pentagon projects that costs to
retrofit  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 jets, the costliest U.S.
weapon system, have dropped by at least $500 million.  The estimate on upgrades for the first five contracts of 90
aircraft has dropped to about $1.2 billion from $1.7 billion,
the Pentagon said in a new report to Congress on
“concurrency.” That’s the system under which the fighters are
being built even as they’re still in development.  Retrofitting involves changes to aircraft that have already
been built to fix shortcomings or incorporate improvements.  The projected cost to retrofit the 32 aircraft in the fifth
production contract -- the latest signed -- has dropped to $320
million from the $450 million the Pentagon estimated last year,
in an example cited in the report.  The estimate is good news to Bethesda, Maryland-based
Lockheed, the world’s largest defense contractor, because the
company must pay an increasing share of costs for upgrading
planes beginning with the fifth contract.  The drop in concurrency costs follow a 1.1 percent decline
reported last month that reduces the program’s total projected
cost to $391.2 billion to develop and build 2,443 jets for the
Air Force, Navy and Marine Corps. Even with the improvements,
the projected cost has increased 68 percent since the Pentagon
signed its initial contract for the fighter with Lockheed in
2001.  The revised estimates bolster findings by government
analysts that the military and the contractor are making
progress in managing the jet’s simultaneous development and
production.  ‘More Comfortable’  Frank Kendall, who’s now the Pentagon’s under secretary of
acquisition, last year called that approach “acquisition
malpractice.” In April, he told reporters “I feel much more
comfortable” now about the F-35.  The lower retrofit estimates are based less on computer
models using historical data and more on “actual costs of
implementing approved changes,” according to the report.  The new cost model “reflects a detailed engineering
approach informed by the remaining F-35 qualification, flight
test and ground test events,” it said.  Lockheed Martin spokeswoman Laura Siebert in an e-mail
statement said the $500 million reduction reflects that the
company and the Pentagon program office “have worked together
to develop a method of projecting” concurrency costs.  The cost projection for the fourth contract of 30 jets
dropped to $440 million from $580 million. That’s a per-plane
retrofit cost of about $15 million from as much as $19 million,
according to the report.  The data in the report indicates a steady decline in
retrofitting costs after the fifth contract, with $230 million
and $120 million for the sixth and seventh contracts that may be
announced this month.  A 10th contract for 66 aircraft that won’t be signed for
several years has a projected $50 million in retrofitting costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  