-- Petrobras’s Biggest Oil Discovery Brings Cost Concerns
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-06-06T19:02:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/petrobras-s-biggest-oil-discovery-brings-cost-concerns.html
Investors in  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PBR) ,
the world’s most indebted  oil company , aren’t celebrating
 Brazil ’s biggest-ever crude discovery.  Since regulators doubled estimates for the Libra field to
as much as 12 billion barrels on May 23, the state-run company’s
 shares  fell 5.3 percent in  New York , the worst performance among
15 peers tracked by Bloomberg. The new estimates make the oil
prospect Brazil’s largest as the country prepares to bring in
partners to start production.  For Petrobras, more oil means more investments and debt for
a company that already has the world’s second-biggest  spending
plan  and is stretched for staff and equipment. The Rio de
Janeiro-based producer will pay a multi-billion-dollar signing
bonus for Libra at a time it sacrifices revenue from fuel sales
as part of a government policy to curb inflation. Petrobras has
sold imported gasoline and diesel at a loss since late 2010.  “They haven’t got a shortage of reserves, so another new
find isn’t going to move the needle,”  Nick Robinson , the head
of Brazilian equities at Aberdeen Asset Management, which has
about $15 billion in Latin American shares including Petrobras,
said by telephone. “The big issue for Petrobras is cash flow
generation.”  Little Control  Petrobras has the financial and human resources to develop
new areas of the so-called pre-salt region that holds Libra, the
company said in an e-mailed reply to questions. The company has
increased gasoline prices 14.9 percent and diesel prices 21.9
percent in the past year to narrow the discount to international
prices, it said.  The government probably will set its signing bonus at about
20 billion reais ($9.4 billion) and Petrobras will pay at least
30 percent, said  Adriano Pires , the head of the Brazilian Center
for Infrastructure, a consulting firm in  Rio de Janeiro .  Petrobras, which the government controls through a majority
of voting shares, has little control over how much it will
profit from Libra since terms will be determined by the winning
bidder for a 70 percent stake to be auctioned in October. The
Energy and Mines Ministry declined to comment on the size of the
bonus.  The Nov. 8, 2007 announcement of billions of barrels of
high-quality oil locked below a layer of salt in the deep waters
of the Santos basin drove up Petrobras’s  stock  49 percent to a
record 52.51 reais on May 21, 2008. The stock tumbled 63 percent
since then as fuel price caps, rising investments and equipment
shortages discouraged investors, even as production from the so-called pre-salt region beat the company’s forecasts.  ‘Different Environment’  “It’s a different environment,” said Eric Conrads, who
manages about $750 million of Latin American stocks at ING
Investment Management in New York. “At that time you were
looking at growth, you were looking at a production explosion,
new potential.  Emerging markets  and Brazil were hot.”  Petrobras’s capital expenditure this year will be $42.9
billion, the most after  PetroChina Co. (857)  among major oil
producers, according to estimates tracked by Bloomberg.
Petrobras plans to invest 98 billion reais this year. It is the
 most indebted  publicly-traded oil company at $97 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Libra holds 8 billion to 12 billion barrels in recoverable
reserves, topping the 6.5 billion at Lula, Brazil’s hitherto
biggest discovery, also located in deep waters of the southern
Atlantic, Magda Chambriard, the head of Brazil’s oil regulator,
told reporters May 23.  Profit Sharing  Libra will cost Petrobras $34 billion over the life of the
project to cover its minimum 30 percent stake, equal to 79
percent of its investments last year, Banco Santander SA
analysts Christian Audi and Vicente Falanga Neto said in a note
to clients.  Under a so-called profit-sharing model, the winning bidder
will be determined by how much profit it pledges to the
government. This puts Petrobras at a disadvantage to other
international producers who can borrow at cheaper rates,
Santander said. The greater the demand for Libra means Petrobras
will have to forfeit a larger portion of the production to the
state, said Jerry Kepes, a partner at Washington-based PFC
Energy, an energy strategist to companies and governments.  “The last thing they would like to see is a bunch of
foreign companies coming in and bidding the government take up
and their returns down,” Kepes said by telephone. “For
Petrobras that’s a problem.”  ‘Slip Back’  Petrobras will probably rework its business plan to replace
less profitable projects with Libra, said Iain Reid, an analyst
at Jefferies Group LLC in  London .  “They will rank this against other opportunities, and the
opportunities which are less economic, potentially, could slip
back a bit,” Reid said by telephone. “Any sensible company,
which has a big and potentially commercial asset, isn’t going to
just leave it sitting there.”  Bidding will be competitive among large  oil companies 
including  Total SA (FP) ,  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , said Pedro
Dittrich, a partner in charge of oil and gas at Sao Paulo-based
TozziniFreire Advogados.  “The Chinese companies are highly expected, as well as
others from the East,” Dittrich said in an e-mailed reply to
questions. “It is likely that Petrobras’s partners at the Libra
prospect are currently its partners in other projects.”  Some companies may be willing to pay an even higher bonus
of about $15 billion considering the success at nearby Lula and
the successful drilling results at Libra, said Cleveland Jones,
a geology professor at Rio de Janeiro State University.  ‘Short-Term Problems’  Authorities probably will set a high signing bonus to boost
revenue during a year when economic growth is trailing
government and economist expectations, said Pires. Brazil’s
economy has posted growth below analyst forecasts for five
straight quarters. The economy expanded 0.55 percent in the
first quarter, less than the 0.9 percent median forecast of
analysts polled by Bloomberg.  Petrobras was down 0.5 percent in  Sao Paulo  this year
through yesterday, less than the 13 percent drop in Brazil’s
benchmark  stock index . The Brazilian company, whose rose 0.2
percent to 19.45 reais at 3:59 p.m. today, trades at 7.9 times
estimated profit compared with a peer average of 11.78.  The government has a track record of using Petrobras to
help meet economic goals including inflation, Pires said. Fuel
subsidies reduced Petrobras’s profit last year to the lowest in
eight years. Brazil targets inflation of 4.5 percent plus or
minus two percentage points. Annual inflation in April was 6.49
percent.  “The government wasn’t thinking about Petrobras when it
set up the pre-salt auction,” Pires said by telephone. “It’s
worried about short-term problems like the primary surplus.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  