-- Petrobras to Drill Horizontal Wells at Iara in Brazil, Galp Says
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2013-06-06T16:49:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/petrobras-to-drill-horizontal-wells-at-iara-in-brazil-galp-says.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA and partners
 BG Group Plc (BG/)  and Galp Energia SGPS SA will drill horizontal
wells to compensate for low flow rates at one of Brazil’s
largest oil finds, according to Galp’s chief executive officer.  “The Iara field is an excellent field, with great oil
resources, commercially viable and valuable, but it has
relatively low permeability,” Manuel Ferreira de Oliveira told
reporters in Rio de Janeiro today. “We are going to work with
horizontal wells to increase well production” to the level of
other nearby fields, he said.  Petrobras, as Brazil’s state-owned producer is known, is
the operator of Iara and said in 2008 that the field held as
much as 4 billion barrels of recoverable reserves. BG, the
U.K.’s No. 3 gas producer, and Lisbon-based Galp hold minority
stakes in the field, about 230 kilometers (143 miles) from the
coast of Rio de Janeiro and one of  Brazil ’s five biggest
discoveries. Petrobras is already pumping as much as 36,000
barrels out of individual wells at the nearby Lula field.  Lula and Iara are located on the same exploration block and
are part of the so-called pre-salt region, discovered by
Petrobras in 2007 when it found crude trapped under a layer of
salt below the Atlantic seabed. Growing pre-salt output helped
both BG and Galp beat  earnings estimates  in the first quarter.  Petrobras’s press office didn’t immediately respond to a
request seeking comment. The Rio-based company said May 13 that
it may “use special techniques for stimulation and well
geometry” at Iara. The partners still have to declare the field
commercial, Ferreira de Oliveira said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  