-- PGE Drops Most in 3 Months as Premier Backs Opole Plant
-- B y   P i o t r   B u j n i c k i   a n d   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2013-06-06T12:35:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/pge-drops-most-in-3-months-as-premier-backs-opole-plant.html
PGE SA,  Poland ’s largest power
producer, plunged the most in more than three months after Prime
Minister Donald Tusk said the state-controlled utility should
continue its 11.6 billion-zloty ($3.6 billion) project to expand
the Opole power plant.  The government this week “confirmed readiness” and will
“find means” to build new coal-fired units in the southern
city of Opole, Tusk told investors in Warsaw today. The project
was among the eight power plants Tusk mentioned in his October
policy speech as key to the country’s energy security. PGE in
April canceled its biggest investment, saying a decline in
electricity prices in Poland made it unprofitable.  “That’s definitely bad news for PGE as the Opole project
creates no value for its shareholders,” Maciej Hebda, an
analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank in Warsaw, said by
phone today. “It’s still unknown what PGE’s role will be and
it’s also negative for the whole industry as once the project is
ready it will push down electricity prices.”  PGE  shares  slumped as much as 7 percent and traded 6.3
percent lower to 17.25 zloty as of 2:16 p.m. in Warsaw, the
steepest decline since Feb. 20. The number of shares traded was
144 percent of the stock’s three-month daily average volume,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Contractors Surge  Rafako SA, the power engineering company that was earlier
picked to build the Opole plant, surged as much as 21 percent
today. Polimex-Mostostal SA, also part of the building group,
climbed as much as 8.9 percent.  Poland, which relies on coal for about 90 percent of its
electricity generation, needs to upgrade its aging  power plants 
to comply with European Union regulations on carbon dioxide
emissions. Poland is the biggest per-capita polluter in the EU.  ‘We’re looking for ways to finance the project and lower
its cost,’’ Treasury Minister Wlodzimierz Karpinski told
reporters today. “We’re cooperating with PGE on this.”  Malgorzata Koziel, a spokeswoman for PGE, didn’t answer
calls to her mobile phone seeking comments on Opole.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Bujnicki in Warsaw at 
 pbujnicki@bloomberg.net ;
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  