-- Philadelphia Treasurer’s Daughter Dies as Building Falls
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-06-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/philadelphia-treasurer-s-daughter-is-among-collapse-dead.html
Philadelphia Treasurer Nancy Winkler’s daughter, Anne Bryan, was among the six people who
died when a building collapsed in the city, according to the
mayor’s office.  Part of the structure undergoing demolition suddenly fell
and crushed a Salvation Army thrift store next door on June 5,
leaving 13 injured. Bryan’s relationship to Winkler was
confirmed by  Mark McDonald , a spokesman for Mayor Michael Nutter.  Bryan’s family issued a statement yesterday through the
Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, where she was a first-year student.  “Yesterday, our family suffered a devastating loss when
our daughter, Anne Bryan, was taken from us,” said the family
statement. “Anne was a brilliant and caring young woman just
entering the prime of her life. She was an incredibly kind and
loving person and her death has left a hole in the hearts of all
who knew her.”  Bryan was 24, said Heike Rass, an academy spokeswoman. The
Philadelphia-based school is planning a memorial service for her
at a later date, according to the statement from David R. Brigham, the academy’s president and chief executive officer.  Bryan was a 2007 graduate of the William Penn Charter
School, according to Sharon Sexton, a spokeswoman for the Quaker
institution in the East Falls section of the city.  Dead Identified  “I ask all Philadelphians to remember those who perished
and their families in their prayers and thoughts,” Nutter said
yesterday in a statement. It listed the others who died as
Kimberly Finnegan, Davis Borbor, Juanita Harmin, Mary Simpson
and Roseline Conteh, without any other information about them.  Winkler, 55, was appointed by Nutter in 2011. She had
worked for more than 28 years at Public Financial Management, a
municipal-finance unit of Philadelphia-based PFM Group. She was
a managing director before moving to  City Hall .  The cause of the collapse is being probed, Nutter said.  “We will fully investigate this tragedy and get to the
bottom of what happened, how, when and why,” the mayor said.
“We will determine further actions that must be taken to
prevent such tragedies in the future.”  The four-story building at 22nd and Market streets
collapsed at about 10:45 a.m., according to Fire Commissioner
Lloyd Ayers.  The structure’s owner, STB Investment Corp., got a
demolition permit in February, listing the primary contractor as
Griffin Campbell Construction of Philadelphia. Documents
released by the city show that the 14,552-square-foot (1,350-square-meter) structure was to be completely removed.  No “open violations” were reported for the address.  At least one lawsuit against the demolition company and the
building owner, identified as Richard Basciano by the  Associated
Press , has been filed, the news service said late yesterday. It
said the suit was brought by Robert Mongelluzi, a lawyer, on
behalf of Nadine White, who was among the survivors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  