-- Philippine, Thai Bourses Try to Calm Investors on Stock Rout
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n ,   N o r m a n   A q u i n o   a n d   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-06-06T08:02:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/philippine-thai-exchanges-try-to-calm-investors-amid-stock-rout.html
Stock  exchanges  in the  Philippines 
and Thailand have moved to soothe investors after speculation
the U.S. Federal Reserve may scale back bond purchases prompted
selloffs by overseas investors.  Stock Exchange of Thailand President Charamporn Jotikasthira today urged investors not to panic, saying economic
and corporate earnings growth in  Southeast Asia ’s second-biggest
economy remains strong. The benchmark SET Index dropped to two-month low. Philippine Stock Exchange President Hans Sicat
described the selloff as an “extreme overreaction.”  The Philippines benchmark index has slumped 11 percent and
the Thai gauge 8.4 percent since May 22, when Fed Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  said policy makers could consider reducing the pace
of monetary stimulus if the nation’s labor market improves.
Overseas investors have sold a net $414 million of Thai stocks
and $147 million of Philippine shares this month.  “Foreign net selling is an extreme overreaction to
Bernanke’s” outlook on possible stimulus cuts, Sicat said in a
televised interview with ABS-CBN News today. “Technical
 corrections  tend to be buying opportunities for others who are
more conservative.”  Trading ‘Normal’  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index gained today, adding
0.8 percent to 6,609.01 at the close, after the recent losses
cut  valuations  to 18.3 times projected 12-month earnings, the
least expensive since February. Its 50-day volatility measure
rose to 21.3 today, the highest level since July.  Thailand ’s SET Index declined 1.3 percent to 1,503.50 at
3:30 p.m. in Bangkok, heading for the lowest close since April
10. The measure is trading at 13 times forecast profits, the
cheapest since January. Its 50-day  volatility  gauge climbed to
20.2 today, the highest level since December 2011.  The Thai exchange isn’t planning any measures to contain
the slump in share prices, Charamporn said at a press briefing
in Bangkok today.  “Trading is still normal,” he said. “Investors should
not panic. Thailand’s economic fundamentals and corporate
earnings remain strong.”  The Philippines and Thailand, along with  Indonesia , led a
four-year rally in global stocks as buoyant local economies sent
corporate profits to records and the Fed’s debt buying spurred
investors to seek higher-yielding assets.  Fund Selling  While economic growth in the three nations will remain
robust, asset managers including Religare  Capital Markets  and
Samsung Asset Management anticipate more declines as the Fed
moves closer to paring its bond purchases.  “I don’t think this the last wave of selling by overseas
investors,” Juanis Barredo, a technical analyst at COL
Financial Group Inc., the largest Philippine online stock
brokerage, said today. “At some point, funds will just stop
selling because prices fell too steeply.”  International investors poured $25 billion into the
Philippines, Indonesia and Thailand stock markets since Nov. 25,
2008, when the Fed announced its first round of so-called
quantitative easing to revive economic growth amid the global
financial crisis.  The Jakarta index  surged  356 percent from that date through
through May 22 and the SET gauge advanced 322 percent. The
Philippine measure rose 310 percent, versus a 116 percent gain
in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  