-- Phil Fischer to Become Bank of America’s Muni Research Head
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-06-06T19:07:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/phil-fischer-to-become-bank-of-america-s-muni-research-head-1-.html
Phil Fischer will rejoin Bank of
America Merrill Lynch as head of municipal research, a position
he held from 2004 to 2009, after chief John Hallacy announced
his retirement amid a shake-up of the division.  Fischer, author of “Investing in Municipal Bonds,” has
about 30 years of municipal-finance experience, according to an
internal memo obtained by  Bloomberg News  announcing his
appointment.  Selena Morris, a spokeswoman for Charlotte-based Bank of
America, confirmed Fischer’s hiring. He will join the team June
10 and report to Michael Maras, head of global credit research.  “Under Phil’s leadership, the group will continue to
produce municipal credit research and develop a municipal
strategy product with a focus on thematic pieces and relative
value analysis and ideas,” the memo said.  Hallacy, 57, on June 3 confirmed he would step down and
declined to comment further. Morris said then that Susannah Page
and Howard Sitzer, both muni strategists, were exiting, and that
Hallacy would retire next month.  Wall Street firms in the past 30 months laid out plans to
cut more than 300,000 jobs to curb costs. In January,  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  said it would eliminate 1,700 investment-banking
positions and defer bonuses for top earners.  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  reduced payroll expenses by more than a third in the five
years through 2012.  Hallacy worked in state and local-government finance 34
years, according to a biography provided by Bank of America. He
started at  Standard & Poor’s , working as a muni-debt analyst for
six years. He also worked at public-debt insurers including  MBIA
Inc. (MBI)  and FGIC Corp., according to the biography.  Fischer was designated an all-star muni strategist by
Smith’s Research and Institutional Investor for more than 10
years, according to the memo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  