-- Pimco Calls $8.5 Billion BofA Settlement ‘Outstanding’
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-06-07T21:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/pimco-defends-8-5-billion-bofa-mortgage-accord.html
Bank of America Corp. ’s $8.5 billion
mortgage-bond settlement is “outstanding” for investors, said
a Pacific Investment Management Co. executive, who defended the
deal against opposition.  The settlement was reached after an investor group that
included Pimco and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  at first demanded $12 billion,
eventually coming down to a “take it or leave it” offer of
$8.5 billion, Kent Smith, an executive vice president at Newport
Beach, California-based Pimco who helped negotiate the
agreement, testified yesterday.  “It’s an outstanding deal, and it’s in the best interest
of our clients to support it,” Smith said.  Smith was the first witness to testify in a trial over the
agreement, which is being considered by Justice Barbara Kapnick
in New York State Supreme Court in  Manhattan . The accord
resolves claims from Countrywide Financial mortgage-bond
investors over loans bundled into securities.  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  is fighting the settlement, saying Bank
of America isn’t paying enough to compensate investors.  During settlement negotiations in 2011, the Pimco group
fought with representatives of  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Bank of America over the estimated size of Countrywide’s
liability for defective loans, Smith said. Investors at one
point presented an analysis to Bank of America, and the bank’s
chief risk officer, Terrence Laughlin, “threw it back across
the table at us,” Smith testified.  Possible Bankruptcy  The investor group confronted the risk that if they decided
to sue to recover losses instead of settling, Bank of America
would put Countrywide into bankruptcy, Smith said. Laughlin gave
the investors the “impression” that the bank had approval from
a federal regulator, the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency, for the bankruptcy, Smith testified today.  A Countrywide bankruptcy was Bank of America’s “trump
card,” he said, and it was a risk that the investor group took
“fairly seriously.”  AIG has criticized the settlement in part because  Bank of
New York Mellon Corp. , the trustee seeking approval of the
agreement for investors, didn’t review loan files to investigate
whether mortgages fell short of representations made to
investors about their quality.  Loan Files  During questioning by an attorney for New York-based AIG,
Smith acknowledged loan files weren’t examined even though the
Pimco group wanted to see them.  Smith finished his testimony today, and testimony is set to
continue next week. Laughlin is among the scheduled witnesses.  Smith was also asked how the group went from a demand of
$12 billion to $8.5 billion during negotiations. He said there
had to be agreement among the investors negotiating with the
bank on the amount they wanted.  “There were discussions around a number, and people would
have disagreements about what the number was until the group
came to a consensus,” he said.  The case is In the matter of the application of the Bank of
 New York  Mellon, 651786-2011, New York State Supreme Court, New
York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York State Supreme Court
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  