-- Platts Has No Plans to Follow CRU With Steel Price Audit
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-06-06T17:13:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/platts-has-no-plans-to-follow-cru-with-steel-price-audit-1-.html
Platts, the commodities price
reporting company owned by McGraw-Hill Financial Inc., said it
has no plans to audit its data providers after CRU Group said it
hired a third party to review how it collects steel prices.  Platts , which was raided last month as part of a European
Union antitrust investigation on oil prices, provides benchmark
assessments on a number of physical markets using data on actual
trades and its own judgment. London-based researcher and
consulting company CRU, which publishes steel prices that
compete with Platts, said it will begin a third-party audit
process of its data suppliers “in earnest” next week.  “We have no plans to audit data providers,” Joe Innace,
Platts’ editorial director for metals, said today in an e-mailed
statement in response to Bloomberg questions. “We are confident
in the quality of the data we publish.”  CRU’s audit will apply to the U.S. Midwest hot-rolled coil,
cold-rolled coil, hot-dipped galvanized coil and plate, it said
in a statement dated yesterday from Pittsburgh,  Pennsylvania ,
and London. Glenn Cooney, head of operations at CRU Indices,
said in an interview today that the company has been planning
for the audit for 12 to 18 months “to maintain our position as
the market-leading index provider in North America for carbon
steel.” He declined to name its audit company.  $20 Billion  CRU’s hot-rolled coil index is used to settle steel
contracts in North America worth more than $20 billion a year,
CRU said in the statement.  China , the world’s biggest buyer of
iron ore used to make steel, started its own spot trading
platform last year, introducing a weighted average daily price
in March.  Much of the global trade, valued at about $180 billion,
continues using Platts, which became the leading price index
after producers including Vale SA and  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  scrapped
annual contract price talks in 2010. The China Iron & Steel
Association has questioned the reliability of Platts’ steel
price index, the industry’s benchmark gauge.  Pricing mechanisms are under scrutiny around the world
after U.S and U.K. investigators uncovered widespread attempts
by banks to manipulate the London interbank offered rate, or
Libor, the benchmark lending rate tied to $300 trillion in
securities worldwide. Regulators are also looking for evidence
of price fixing in ISDAfix, the benchmark rate for the $379
trillion swaps market.  Airline Tickets  Companies including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , BP Plc, Statoil
ASA and Platts have said they’re being investigated after the
European Commission conducted raids in three countries in search
of evidence of collusion in the oil industry. Price fixing in
energy markets has the potential to inflate production costs and
consumer prices for everything from gasoline to airline tickets
to cosmetics.  Price assessments that are published by Platts and its
competitors, including  Argus Media Ltd.  and Reed Business
Information’s ICIS, are used to value raw materials used in
everything from plastic bags to car parts in the $2.2 trillion
global base chemical industry as well as coal, power, metals,
emissions, liquefied natural gas and shipping rates.  Platts publishes two steel price series, its TSI index that
is operated independently from its editorial section and a daily
telephone survey that “is underpinned by a strict and
transparent methodology and governed by well-established data
verification techniques,” Innace said.  “Any data supplied to Platts and TSI by our sources must
meet our methodology guidelines and must be reflective of true
market value,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in  London  at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  