-- Poloz Says He Won’t Give Running Commentary on Loonie
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-06-06T18:59:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/poloz-says-he-won-t-give-running-commentary-on-loonie.html
Bank of Canada  Governor Stephen Poloz
used his first public comments to reiterate  Mark Carney ’s view
that the central bank’s policy rate will rise as the economy
grows and declined to give “running commentary” on whether the
nation’s currency is overvalued.  “As the world heals, interest rates will rise,” Poloz,
57, said during testimony to the House of Commons Finance
Committee in Ottawa today, his first remarks since starting the
job June 3. “It will be consistent with our inflation target,
which is to get inflation back up to 2 percent.”  The benchmark interest  rate  has been held at 1 percent
since September 2010. The bank’s bias contrasts with U.S. and
Japanese central bank measures of buying assets to rekindle
growth. Most of Poloz’s testimony affirmed Carney’s policies of
a flexible 2 percent inflation target in an expansion led by
business spending as indebted consumers pull back.  “A few days into the job, Governor Poloz was careful not
to send the Bank of  Canada  off in a wildly different
direction,”  Avery Shenfeld , chief economist at  CIBC World
Markets , said by phone from Toronto. Poloz didn’t “pound the
table on the Canadian dollar being too strong,” as some
investors expected, and “he has left some room for some subtle
changes” later, Shenfeld said.  Loonie Strength  The Canadian dollar strengthened the most in almost a year
against the  U.S. dollar , which dropped against a majority of its
major counterparts as traders unwound bets on a weakening yen.
Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie, rose 0.9 percent to
C$1.0256 per U.S. dollar at 2:06 p.m. in Toronto after
strengthening as much as 1.4 percent, the most since June 29,
2012. One dollar buys 97.50 U.S. cents.  Poloz, the former head of the government export-financing
agency, said companies will boost investment when they’re more
confident about global demand. He rejected the idea presented by
the opposition  New Democratic Party  that exporters are hurt by
“ Dutch Disease ” where high commodity  prices  boost the currency
and destroy manufacturing.  The idea that a weaker currency will help exporters “is a
very marginal kind of addition” to other considerations
including foreign demand, Poloz said. “I won’t offer a running
commentary on the Canadian dollar, where it is, and where it
should be,” Poloz said in response to an opposition  Liberal
Party  lawmaker’s question.  New Equipment  Some companies aren’t responding to the high dollar by
importing new equipment to boost productivity that is lagging
the U.S., Poloz said. “Currently we aren’t seeing this trend
pan out,” he said, adding he was “reasonably confident”
investment will accelerate.  Poloz answered several rounds of questions about whether a
long period of low  interest rates  was creating risks by
encouraging consumers to take on too much mortgage debt,
including one from committee Chairman James Rajotte of the
governing  Conservative Party .  Poloz said he’s concerned about the risks of younger
families in particular taking on too much debt. “That is
exactly what the policy is about, low for hopefully not too long
gives you the outcomes you need to get through this crisis, and
then as the world unfolds we get back to normal.”  Regulators have taken steps to curb household debt risks
and the Bank of Canada has been “clear” to the public about
the dangers, Poloz said. Household debt has reached a record 165
percent of disposable income according to  Statistics Canada .  Poloz’s opening remarks likened the global recovery from
the 2008 financial crisis as being “more like a postwar
reconstruction” than an ordinary recession.  The new governor will deliver his first speech in Oakville,
Ontario, on June 19 and lead the central bank’s governing
council in making its July 17 interest rate decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  