-- Power Hedging at Five-Year High in Record Slump: Energy Markets
-- B y   J u l i a   M e n g e w e i n   a n d   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n
-- 2013-06-06T08:14:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/power-hedging-at-five-year-high-in-record-slump-energy-markets.html
European utilities are hedging their
future electricity output more than at any time in the past five
years as the longest slump in prices shows no sign of ending.  Power producers from Germany’s EON SE to CEZ AS of the
 Czech Republic  sold an average 49 percent of output for 2015 as
of March 31, compared with a 29 percent mean in the past five
years, data from five utilities compiled by Bloomberg Industries
show. Delivery in 2015 in Germany,  Europe ’s biggest market, is
poised to drop as much as 11 percent in the next two months,
according to Inenco Group Ltd., which buys energy for industrial
consumers in 18 countries.  The rush by utilities to secure stable revenue underlines
how German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s plans to increase solar
and wind are hurting prices in Europe’s 430 billion-euro ($562
billion) power market. Margins at gas-fired plants slumped to
their lowest level in four years last month as the renewable
energy boom created a power glut at the same time that
consumption fell to its lowest since 2003.  “Utilities are no longer betting on a quick recovery of
power markets and are therefore not holding back volumes,”
Patrick Hummel, an analyst at UBS AG in Zurich, said yesterday
by e-mail. “Demand continues to be weak and power plant
closures needed to re-balance the oversupply won’t happen
quickly enough.”  German power for delivery in 2014, the European benchmark,
has dropped for eight quarters, the longest decline since the
contract started trading in June 2010, broker data compiled by
Bloomberg show. It has lost 15 percent this year and was trading
at 38.35 euros a megawatt-hour at 9:48 a.m. Berlin time. Power
for 2015 and 2016, trading at about 38 euros, may fall to near
30 euros, said Hummel, declining to be more specific.  Shutting Plants  Statkraft SF,  Norway ’s biggest utility, will shut its 510-megawatt Landesbergen natural gas-fed power station in Germany
this year because of a “bleak” economic outlook, the Oslo-based company said in March. Paris-based  GDF Suez SA (GSZ) , Europe’s
largest utility by market value, has closed or mothballed more
than 8,000 megawatts of capacity in Europe since 2009. A supply
of 1,000 megawatts is enough to provide power to about 2 million
European homes.  The German next-month clean-spark spread, a measure of the
profitability of gas-fired plants, widened to minus 25.20 euros
a megawatt-hour on May 31 and was at minus 23.20 euros today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The five utilities tracked by Bloomberg Industries, which
also include  RWE AG (RWE) ,  Verbund AG (VER)  and Vattenfall AB, had sold 65
percent of next year’s production as of March 31, compared with
an average 59 percent for year-ahead sales since 2008, the data
show.  Sales Accelerating  EON, Germany’s biggest utility, had sold all of this year’s
output as early as September, according to the company’s third
quarter earnings report. By December, it had sold all of its
generation for next year, compared with 80 percent for the
equivalent contract a year earlier.  “The fact that EON has hedged so much of its forward power
production at this stage in the year shows that they are
expecting power prices to fall,” Konstantin Lenz, the managing
director of energy-markets adviser Lenz Energy, said June 4 by
phone from Dusseldorf. Lenz has tracked European energy markets
for more than 10 years.  The decline in power prices has been fanned by a European
Union wrangle over how to address a record glut of carbon
permits in the region. The European Parliament voted April 16
against a proposal to delay the sale of 900 million permits over
the next three years and reintroduce them in 2019 and 2020 to
stem the surplus. Carbon prices have tumbled 42 percent since
the start of the year on ICE Futures Europe in  London .  Carbon Bearish  “For 2013 and 2014, everything has been hedged and for
2015 we keep hedging,” Marcus Schenck, EON’s chief financial
officer, said on a May 8 conference call with analysts. “We are
very bearish on the carbon price, and proved to be right, and
that is why we have continued to hedge our position.”  The parliament’s environment committee is scheduled to vote
on June 19 on an amended plan to remove carbon credits. A vote
in support of the measure, known as backloading, would boost
power prices, Gary Hornby, an energy markets analyst at Lytham
St. Annes, England-based Inenco, said June 4 by e-mail. The
company buys more than $2 billion of electricity and gas a year.  “If backloading is finalized, it will certainly support
prices” for delivery several years ahead, he said.  An economic recovery may also boost power prices. Gross
domestic product in the euro region will grow 0.2 percent in the
fourth quarter, according to the median of 27 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. That would be the first quarterly increase
since 2011.  Renewable Growth  Renewable energy met a record 22 percent of  Germany ’s power
demand last year, compared with 7 percent in 2002, according to
data from BDEW, a utility lobby group, and energy research group
AG Energiebilanzen e.V., both based in Berlin. The government
seeks to have 35 percent of German power produced by renewable
sources by 2020. An increase in electricity generated from wind
and sun means power prices may extend declines, according to
Robert Schramm-Fuchs, an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in
London.  “This could offset a potential carbon-price rally from
backloading,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Mengewein in Frankfurt at 
 jmengewein@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Morison in London at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  