-- Thomvest Buys Public Mobile After Canada Blocks Rival’s Deal
-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   T h o r p e   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-06-06T15:16:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/public-mobile-agreed-to-be-bought-by-thomvest-seed-correct-.html
Public Mobile Inc., a Toronto-based
wireless operator, was acquired by U.S. and Canadian investors
two days after the Canadian government blocked rival
Mobilicity’s deal to be bought by Telus Corp.  Thomvest Seed Capital Inc., an investment vehicle of Peter J. Thomson, and Cartesian Capital, a New York-based private-equity firm, purchased Public Mobile for an undisclosed price,
according to a statement today. Thomson is the brother of  David Thomson , whose $24.6 billion net worth is the world’s 23rd-largest, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  Industry Minister Christian Paradis blocked Telus’s C$380
million ($368 million) accord to buy Mobilicity, citing the need
to defend consumer choice against  Canada ’s big three carriers.
Mobilicity, Public Mobile and a third new operator, Wind Mobile
all bought wireless spectrum in a 2008 auction and have
struggled against Telus, Rogers Communications Inc. and  BCE Inc. (BCE)   “Circumstances in the Canadian wireless industry have
created a window for Canada’s fourth wireless player to
emerge,” Stefan Clulow, managing director at Toronto-based
Thomvest, said in the statement.  Thomvest and Cartesian said today that they’re prepared for
further deal-making and may bid for wireless spectrum in a
government auction set for January. Wind Mobile, the largest of
the three new entrants, is being considered for a possible sale
by its backers, a person with direct knowledge of that process
said last month, asking not to be named because the information
is private.  ‘Consolidation Opportunities’  Paul Pizzani, a partner at Cartesian, said that “Public
Mobile is well-positioned to grow in scale by pursuing these
consolidation opportunities and by bidding for national spectrum
in the 700 MHz auction.”  Thomvest and Cartesian said that they have invested the
first part of funds committed to make Public Mobile cash-flow
positive, without giving a figure. Thomvest becomes the
carrier’s controlling shareholder, they said.  The transaction “received the continuing support and
partnership” of Chinese mobile-phone maker  ZTE Corp. (000063)  and the
Export-Import Bank of China, Public Mobile said, without
elaborating.  Peter Thomson is chairman of Woodbridge Co., the Thomson
family investment company which has a 55 percent stake in New
York-based  Thomson Reuters  Corp. He also is on the Thomson Reuters board.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
Thomson Reuters in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacqueline Thorpe in Toronto at 
 jthorpe23@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Thorpe at 
 jthorpe23@bloomberg.net  