-- Putin Endorses Permanent Russian Navy Presence in Mediterranean
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-06-06T15:32:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/putin-endorses-permanent-russian-navy-presence-in-mediterranean.html
President  Vladimir Putin  endorsed a
plan by the Russian navy to keep a permanent presence in the
 Mediterranean Sea , where the Syrian crisis is adding to the
region’s instability.  Russia’s Mediterranean fleet of 16 ships will visit ports
in Syria, which hosts the country’s only military base outside
the former Soviet Union, during a mission that will include
missile practise, commander Yuri Zemskoy told Putin via video
link during a news conference in Moscow today.  “This is a strategically important region,” Putin said
today at a meeting with military commanders. “We have our
national interests here, linked to the need to maintain national
security. Resuming a permanent Russian military naval presence
in the Mediterranean sea isn’t saber rattling.”  Russia  stepped up patrols in the Mediterranean in 2010 amid
escalating unrest in Syria. In January, the country held its
biggest naval  maneuvers  in the region in more than two decades.
The defense ministry decided to make the fleet a standing force
in March, the same month Putin  ordered  a large-scale unplanned
exercise on the Black Sea involving 36 warships and almost 7,000
personnel.  The navy’s Mediterranean presence, becoming permanent in
for first time since the collapse of the Soviet Union more than
two decades ago, will be modeled on the Soviet fleet stationed
in the region during the  Cold War  to balance U.S. deployment,
according to the defense ministry. The force will draw on
Russia’s  Black Sea , Baltic and North Sea fleets.  “The group is ready to respond to unexpected tasks as the
situation in the region is changing,” Zemskoy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  