-- Rain-Soaked North Dakota Wheat Planting Delayed Most in 32 Years
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2013-06-06T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/rain-soaked-north-dakota-wheat-planting-delayed-most-in-32-years.html
Wheat-planting delays in  North
Dakota , the largest U.S. producer after Kansas, are the worst
since at least 1981 as the wettest start of the year on record
leaves fields across the state too muddy.  Farmers had sown 62 percent of the spring-wheat crop as of
June 2, the slowest pace since records began 32 years ago, U.S.
Department of Agriculture data show. The delay may limit
planting to 4.7 million acres, the fewest since 1969 and 24
percent less than the 6.2 million forecast by the USDA, said
Mike Krueger, the president of Money Farm, a grain-market
adviser in Casselton, North Dakota.  While wheat prices tumbled into a  bear market  this year as
global output headed to the highest ever, supplies are dropping
in the U.S., the largest exporter. The worst drought since the
1930s damaged winter crops being harvested this month in the
southern Great Plains, and too much rain delays planting of
spring varieties in the north. Rainfall in Fargo, North Dakota,
was the wettest on record going back to 1881, state data show.  “You never want to turn down rain in this part of the
country, but when it keeps coming and coming, and you can’t do
what you need to do to finish planting, it’s frustrating,” said
Harlan Klein, who had sown all but 200 of the 9,000 acres he
farms in Elgin, North Dakota, before rain arrived on May 15.
“It started raining and hasn’t stopped.”  Fargo, located on the eastern border with  Minnesota , got
13.37 inches (34 centimeters) of rain in the past 155 days, the
wettest start to the year since record-keeping began 132 years
ago,  Adnan Akyuz , the state climatologist, said in a telephone
interview from the city. Minot, a north-central city, got 12.38
inches, the third-wettest on record going back to 1905, he said.
In the past 60 days, rainfall was six times normal in parts of
the state, National Weather Service data show.  More Rain  As much as 2 inches of rain will fall in some areas in the
next seven days, and the state will be wetter than normal for
the rest of the month as a weather system is “parked” over
North Dakota, Akyuz said.  “This is an unusually wet event,” Akyuz said. “Corn and
wheat are supposed to be emerging from the ground and getting to
a stage where they can draw moisture from the soil, and it’s not
doing that. It’s muddy and wet compared to if we had vegetation
in the soil. This wet and cool weather is ruling farmers’
lives.”  With 2.23 million acres unplanted so late in the season and
more rain on the way, some farmers may be forced to switch to
soybeans or sunflowers, or leave fields fallow and make a claim
on their crop insurance, Money Farm’s Krueger said.  Spring Wheat  North Dakota farmers were forecast by the USDA on March 28
to plant 7.65 million acres with wheat this year, 81 percent of
which is spring wheat sown in May that is harvested in
September. Durum wheat planted around the same time was forecast
at 1.1 million acres, or 14 percent, and the rest, less than 5
percent, was winter wheat sown in October and harvested in June.  Planting in the six largest spring-wheat-growing states was
80 percent complete on June 2, up 1 percentage point from the
previous week, USDA data show. A year earlier, the entire crop
was sown, and the average over the previous five years was 92
percent.  Spring-wheat  futures  traded on the  Minneapolis Grain
Exchange  have yet to respond to the planting delays, with prices
down 5.7 percent this year to $8.16 a bushel yesterday. On the
Chicago Board of Trade, the global benchmark for wheat, futures
are down 9.8 percent to $7.015 a bushel.  Record Output  World  output  of all wheat varieties will surge to a record
701.1 million metric tons, including a 48 percent jump in  Russia 
and 40 percent from Ukraine, the USDA said May 10. Output in
 Canada , where spring wheat is also grown, will rise 6.6 percent
to 29 million tons. Global inventories will rise 3.4 percent to
186.4 million tons, according to the U.S. government.  “There’s too much grain in the world,”  Tomm Pfitzenmaier ,
a partner at Summit Commodity Brokerage in  Des Moines ,  Iowa ,
said by telephone. “You can have some losses in the Dakotas,
and it will matter to the people losing it, but it won’t matter
around the world. Russia and Ukraine are going to undercut us on
price every chance they get.”  Speculators held a net-short position, or bets that prices
will fall, of 36,167 futures and options contracts in the week
ended May 28 and have been net-short every week this year,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.  Kansas Drought  Prices in  Minneapolis  probably will rise later this year as
the world gets low on high-quality hard wheat grown in the U.S.,
according to Klein, the North Dakota farmer.  Little or no rain has fallen in parts of western  Kansas  or
the Oklahoma and Texas panhandles in the past 30 days, NWS data
show. The U.S. winter-wheat crop, which accounts for more than
70 percent of total domestic output of the grain, was rated 32
percent good or excellent as of June 2, down from 52 percent
last year and the worst for that date since 2006. The crop
entered dormancy in November in the worst shape since record-keeping started in 1985 because of the drought, USDA data show.  In North Dakota, late snow and excessive rain has left most
wheat fields in northern counties unplanted. David Clough, 67,
said he has 20 percent of his 1,600 acres seeded on his farm
near Fessenden, where rains have been among the heaviest he
remembers seeing in 50 years. The area got 10 inches of rain in
the past two weeks, compared with annual totals of about 17
inches, he said.  “We’ve been wet before and we’ve had floods, but usually
we have a week of good weather where we could get some planting
done,” Clough said. “This year, we get into the field for a
half a day and it rains again. We can’t get anything planted.
It’s really not good.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  