-- Rand Gains First Day in 3 After Marcus Says Little Room for Cut
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-06-06T11:05:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/rand-gains-first-day-in-3-after-marcus-says-little-room-for-cut.html
The rand gained for the first time in
three days after South African Reserve Bank Governor Gill Marcus
said the central bank has little room for an interest-rate cut
that would erode the rand’s yield advantage.  Rising inflationary risks limit the bank’s scope to lower
borrowing costs further to stimulate growth in Africa’s biggest
economy, Marcus said today. The bank said June 4 that  interest
rates , which have been kept at 5 percent since July, are helping
maintain “price stability and support the economic recovery.”
The  consumer price index  has been  above  the 4.5 percent mid-point of the central bank’s target range since June 2011.  “As long as inflation remains at these levels they can’t
cut rates; that’s the message the market reads into these
comments,” Ion de Vleeschauwer, the Johannesburg-based chief
dealer at Bidvest Bank, said by phone. “It just means people
will have to think a little before shorting the rand.”  South Africa’s currency gained 0.9 percent to 9.9181 per
dollar as of 12:28 p.m. in Johannesburg, rebounding from a 0.8
percent decline earlier. Yields on benchmark bonds due December
2026 rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7.68
percent, the highest since November.  The dollar weakened against most of its 16 major peers
before data that may show the U.S. job market isn’t expanding at
a rate fast enough for an early reduction in the  Federal
Reserve ’s bond purchases, known as quantitative easing. The
 unemployment rate  in the world’s largest economy probably
remained unchanged in May, data may show tomorrow, according to
the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  