-- Rate Rise-Resistant Structured Note Sales Reach Two-Year High
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-06-06T19:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/rate-rise-resistant-structured-note-sales-reach-two-year-high.html
Banks sold $548.3 million of U.S.
structured notes in May that offer protection from rising
interest rates, the most in almost two years, on concerns that
borrowing costs may rise as the Federal Reserve prepares to
reduce unprecedented stimulus measures.  The most popular such securities were those that eventually
yield a coupon that floats above the London interbank offered
rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales also gained
for notes that pay more when the difference increases between
long- and short-term rates.  Securities that promise some protection from climbing rates
can be a haven for investors concerned that yields will rise in
anticipation of the Fed slowing the pace of its bond purchases
and later raising its benchmark that’s been kept close to zero
for a fifth year. An increase in the cost of borrowing lowers
the value of fixed-rate debt.  “It’s the fear of rising interest rates that’s creating
the demand for these kinds of products,”  James Kochan , chief
fixed-income strategist at Wells Fargo Asset Management LLC in
Menomonee Falls,  Wisconsin , said of fixed-to-floating notes.  Investors should be wary of a repeat of 1994, when they
were surprised by an increase in interest rates that led to
losses,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Chief Executive Officer Lloyd Blankfein said at a May 2 conference in  Washington .  The bank has sold the most rate-tied notes this year, with
$529.8 million of issuance, Bloomberg data show. Of that total,
63 percent include securities that can perform well even if
rates increase.  Funds Rate  The Federal Open Market Committee reiterated on May 1 that
it plans to hold the federal funds target rate between zero and
0.25 percent as long as unemployment is above 6.5 percent and
the outlook for inflation doesn’t rise above 2.5 percent. The
economy expanded at a “modest to moderate” pace in 11 of 12
Federal Reserve districts, with broad-based gains ranging from
business services to construction and manufacturing, the central
bank said on June 5 in its Beige Book business survey.  “If the Federal Reserve responds aggressively to signs of
higher growth and risky lending, credit market investors will
meet a miserable fate,” Ben Garber, an economist at Moody’s
Capital Markets Research Group, wrote in a May 23 report.  Banks sold $267 million of fixed-to-floating rate notes
last month, 68 percent more than the $158.5 million of volume in
April, Bloomberg data show.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  issued $175 million of three-year notes tied
to three-month U.S. dollar Libor on May 20, the biggest such
offering since Feb. 13, Bloomberg data show. The securities
yield 1.25 percent annually for the first 15 months before
switching to 0.85 percent more than the benchmark, with the
coupon capped at 5 percent, according to a  prospectus  filed with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Similar Securities  Other institutions, such as the U.S. unit of  ING Groep NV (INGA) ,
have sold similar securities. The insurer issued $750 million of
40-year, fixed-to-floating-rate bonds in a private offering, the
longest-maturity, dollar-denominated debentures the company has
sold, Bloomberg data show.  The bonds, sold May 13, yield 5.65 percent for 10 years,
then switch to 3.58 percent more than three-month  Libor. (US0003M)  The
debt is callable after 10 years.  Sales of other types of structured notes that are somewhat
shielded from rising rates have also gained.  Issuance of securities tied to constant-maturity swap rates
rose to $118.1 million in May from $66 million the month before.
The notes perform better when the difference between long- and
short-term swaps widens.  Loan Fund  JPMorgan Chase & Co. sold $100 million of notes, in two
offerings, tied to Invesco Ltd.’s  PowerShares Senior Loan
Portfolio (BKLN)  exchange-traded  fund  on May 17, the first such note
publicly offered and registered with the SEC. Most of the
underlying loans pay floating interest rates, according to a
prospectus filed to the regulator.  Total issuance of notes that offer some protection against
increasing rates was the highest last month since $990.5 million
in August 2011.  Meanwhile, May was the third-slowest month for callable
step-up notes since January 2010, when Bloomberg began
collecting comprehensive data on the securities.  Tiffany Galvin, a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs, and Lauren Bellmare, of Morgan Stanley, declined to comment on the notes.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in interest rates or the weather.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Dugan in  New York  at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net 
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  