-- Trayvon Martin Shooting Screams Disputed Before Trial
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   B o y d   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-06-06T14:02:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/trayvon-martin-shooting-screams-disputed-before-trial.html
Screams in the background of a 911
 recording  made moments before 17-year-old Trayvon Martin was
shot to death in a gated Florida community prove nothing because
the voices can’t be identified, lawyers for accused murderer
George Zimmerman are set to tell a judge.  In a hearing four days before Zimmerman’s trial for second-degree murder is scheduled to begin in Florida state court,
defense lawyers today will seek to bar a prosecution witness who
would tell jurors Martin can be heard on the call saying “I’m
begging you.” The witness, an acoustics consultant, didn’t
employ scientifically accepted methods, Zimmerman’s lawyers
argue.  The recording, in which the screams end with the sound of a
gunshot, could be pivotal to the prosecution’s case, in the
absence of eyewitnesses, that Zimmerman, 29, was the aggressor.
Zimmerman told police he acted in self-defense after Martin
punched him in face, knocked him to the ground and threatened to
kill him.  “It’s a critical piece of evidence for the prosecution,”
Kendall Coffey, a former Miami U.S. Attorney, said in a phone
interview. “If the prosecution can convince the jury that it is
the voice of Trayvon Martin, the jury might conclude that
Trayvon Martin is the true victim and George Zimmerman is the
killer.”  The Feb. 26, 2012, shooting triggered protests in several
U.S. cities and drew comment from President  Barack Obama  after
officials initially declined to arrest Zimmerman, saying it
appeared he had acted within the bounds of the state’s Stand
Your Ground law, which allows individuals who feel threatened in
a public place to “meet force with force.”  Racial Aspects  The furor centered on the racial aspects of the shooting --
Martin was black while Zimmerman’s father is white and his
mother is Hispanic. Prosecutors say Zimmerman, a Neighborhood
Watch volunteer, profiled, pursued and then murdered Martin, who
was carrying a can of iced tea, a bag of Skittles and $40 in
cash at the time of his death.  The 911 call at issue in the hearing was made by a female
resident of the Sanford,  Florida , condominium complex to report
what she said sounded like a fight outside her apartment.  The prosecution’s audio expert, Alan Reich, concluded that
the man heard screaming in the background of the call was Martin
and that Zimmerman’s voice is also heard saying “these shall
be” in a low pitch “reminiscent of an evangelical preacher or
carnival barker.” Reich’s four-page May 9 report said that
Martin’s high-pitched, trembling voice could be heard yelling,
“Stop,” just after “I’m begging you,” moments before
Zimmerman fired his Kel-Tec PF-9 9mm pistol at him.  Distant Voice  Zimmerman’s lawyer, Mark O’Mara, said in court papers that
he doesn’t object to the six-person jury hearing the recording.
His challenge is to how Reich determined the distant voice was
Martin’s and not Zimmerman’s. FBI experts who also analyzed the
recording couldn’t determine who was screaming, he said.  “Someone is screaming for help, that’s clear,” O’Mara
said in a phone interview. “I thought there would be enough
voice there to know who it was. I was surprised when the FBI
said there wasn’t enough to be certain.”  The defense is attempting to use a legal procedure known as
a Frye hearing to attack Reich’s methods as not meeting accepted
standards for audio analysis. The maneuver, named for a 1923
federal appeals court ruling, allows a judge to disallow
testimony that relies on scientific methods that aren’t widely
accepted.  Zimmerman’s lawyers, in a May 23 filing challenging Reich
and other state audio experts, told Circuit Judge Debra Nelson
that Reich’s methods are “widely disputed in the scientific
community.”  Witness Credentials  The prosecution claims in its own filing that an expert
witness’s credentials should be established during the trial
through questioning, not in a hearing before the trial.  Brian Tannebaum, a trial attorney who is past president of
the  Florida Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers , said that
if the 911 recording becomes evidence in the trial, it could
hold perils for both defense and prosecution.  “You never know what jurors are thinking,” Tannebaum said
in a phone interview. “If I were the judge, I would be very
careful. Yes, the tape seems inaudible, but we can clearly hear
somebody.  ‘‘It isn’t whether the voice is George Zimmerman or Trayvon
Martin, it’s who the jury thinks it is,” Tannebaum said.  Another question is whether Zimmerman will take the witness
stand. Coffey said if testimony about the audio recording is
kept out of the trial, he might not need to.  Unarmed Man  “If the defense can keep the voice recognition testimony
out, they might be able to rely on statements that Zimmerman
gave earlier,” Coffey said. “One thing is undeniable: George
Zimmerman killed an unarmed man. From the jury perspective, they
will want to hear why he killed that unarmed man.”  During Zimmerman’s Feb. 29 interview with police,
detectives played the 911 call for him. At that time, just three
days after the shooting, the call was yet to be examined by the
FBI and other forensic analysts and police thought the screams
for help were Zimmerman’s.  “You hear that voice in the background?” Chris Serino,
the lead Sanford Police Department investigator,  asked ,
according to a recording of the interview. “That’s you. Are you
hearing yourself?”  “That doesn’t even sound like me,” Zimmerman said.  Zimmerman’s lawyers are also asking the judge to bar the
prosecution from using certain words when describing Zimmerman
during the trial. They include profiled, vigilante, self-appointed Neighborhood Watch captain and wannabe-cop.  The case is State of Florida v. Zimmerman, 1712FO4573,
Florida Circuit Court, 18th Judicial Circuit (Seminole County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  