-- RBA Rate Cuts Having Smaller Impact on Housing, Treasury Says
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-06-06T01:52:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/rba-rate-cuts-having-smaller-impact-on-housing-treasury-says.html
Australia ’s record-low interest  rates 
are having a weaker impact on the housing industry than has
historically been the case, as consumers shy away from taking on
more debt, Treasury said.  “There’s less appetite for debt and that’s part of the
smaller response to interest-rate cuts in terms of how much
dwelling activity it’s generating,” Treasury official David Gruen told a parliamentary committee in Canberra today. The
department indicated nominal gross domestic product for the year
ending June 30 may be weaker than the May budget’s 3.25 percent
forecast.  Australia’s economy expanded at the slowest annual pace in
almost two years in the first quarter after the central bank
reduced the key rate by 2 percentage points since November 2011.
Falling rates aren’t enough to lure individuals to take on more
debt as employment-intensive industries such as construction and
manufacturing struggle and a slowdown looms in mining
investment, Treasury Secretary Martin Parkinson said,  “As we’ve seen a significant reduction in interest rates,
what we want to see is a pick-up in housing activity,”
Parkinson told today’s hearing. “We don’t want to see a
significant pick-up in house prices. That situation would create
quite a difficult dilemma for policy makers.”  The total value of outstanding  owner-occupied mortgages 
climbed 4 percent in April from a year earlier, near the slowest
annual pace in Reserve Bank of Australia records.  The nation’s household savings ratio rose to 10.6 percent
in the three months through March from a revised 10.4 percent in
the fourth quarter, yesterday’s Bureau of Statistics report
showed. The  measure  averaged 5.6 percent over the past 10 years.  The Reserve Bank of Australia held its cash-rate target at
2.75 percent on June 4 and said the inflation outlook may
provide scope for further policy easing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  