-- Reliance to Spend $26 Billion Over 3 Years to Expand Businesses
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-06-06T08:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/reliance-to-spend-26-billion-over-3-years-to-expand-businesses.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) ’s
billionaire Chairman  Mukesh Ambani  plans to spend 1.5 trillion
rupees ($26 billion) over the next three years to expand
business ranging from gas production to telecommunications.  The company is increasing capacity at existing plants that
produce petrochemicals and will build new ones to improve
margins from its refining business, Ambani told shareholders in
Mumbai today. It plans to drill more wells to boost slowing oil
and natural gas production, open more retail stores and start a
high-speed broadband service, he said.  “Reliance has embarked on the largest investment program
in its history,” said Ambani, as his mother Kokila Ambani, wife
Nita Ambani and children watched. “Reliance is making
significant investments is all five businesses simultaneously.”
The company runs oil and gas production, refining,
petrochemicals, telecommunications and retail units.  Reliance, facing declining natural gas output, is building
capacities in anticipation of a turnaround, Ambani said.
Operating margin at the owner of the world’s largest refining
complex has declined for six straight years amid slowing demand
for fuels and petrochemicals as Europe struggles to recover from
a debt crisis.  The company’s  shares  declined as much as 1.7 percent while
Ambani spoke. They traded down 1.1 percent to 793.55 rupees as
of 12:24 p.m. in Mumbai, compared with a 0.3 percent decline in
the benchmark  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  index.  KG-D6 Challenges  “Longer-term, the Reliance story revolves around how they
do on the exploration and production side of the business and
also with their big projects coming onstream” in the year
starting April 2015, Sam Mahtani, who oversees about $5 billion
as director of  emerging markets  at  F&C Asset Management Plc (FCAM) ,
said in an interview today to Bloomberg TV India. “In the short
term, there are some challenges for them, in particular the KG-D6 gas field.”  Production at Reliance’s KG-D6 block, billed as one of the
world’s  biggest  gas discoveries in 2002, fell 39 percent to an
average 26 million cubic meters a day in the year ended March
31, the company said in an April 16  report . Reliance has
attributed the drop to unexpectedly difficult geology.  Reliance sells gas from the block at $4.2 per million
British thermal units, a price that comes up for renewal in
April. A panel led by Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chief of the
prime minister’s Economic Advisory Council, wants rates in  India 
to be an average of gas prices in the U.S., U.K. and Japanese
imports, which may almost double it.  Gas Price  “The trigger for the shares is the price of gas the
government will allow for Reliance,” said Kamlesh Kotak,
Mumbai-based head of research at Asian Market Securities Pvt.
“That’s in the government’s hands, not in Mukesh Ambani’s.”  Reliance is expanding its petrochemical capacity to 25
million metric tons a year from 15 million tons, including
raising polyester capacity to 4 million tons from 1.5 million
tons, Ambani said. The company is constructing a plant that will
turn petroleum coke to synthetic gas, which will be used at the
oil refineries to lower cost, he said.  The company has started drilling for new oil and gas pools
off India’s east coast with its partner  BP Plc. (BP/)  Reliance on May
24 announced  a “significant” gas discovery in KG-D6 after
drilling the first exploration well in the area in more than
four years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  