-- Republicans Trying to Pink-Slip Obama’s D.C. Court Picks
-- B y   P a u l   M .   B a r r e t t
-- 2013-06-06T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/republicans-trying-to-pink-slip-obama-s-d-c-court-picks.html
In April 2005, U.S. Chief Justice
John Roberts delivered a lecture at the University of Virginia
School of Law entitled, “What Makes the D.C. Circuit
Different?”  Roberts, an alumnus of the federal appeals court in
 Washington , explained the  D.C. Circuit ’s “unique character” as
a judicial body “with special responsibility to review legal
challenges to the conduct of the national government.” He noted
the court hears a disproportionate number of appeals from the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Environmental Protection
Agency, Federal Trade Commission, Securities and Exchange
Commission, and other “alphabet soup” regulatory agencies.  Observing judicial etiquette, Roberts avoided discussion of
contemporary politics. As a result, he didn’t address the black-robed elephant in the room: The D.C. Circuit’s role as a
stepping-stone to the Supreme Court. Presidents of both parties
frequently look down Constitution Avenue for nominees to the
nation’s top bench.  Among the Supreme Court’s eight associate justices, three
—- Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas —-
also served on the D.C. Circuit. For that reason, nominees
seeking confirmation to the D.C. Circuit are often subjected to
more intense partisan scrutiny by the Senate than those the
president chooses for the other 11 federal appellate courts
around the country.  Three Vacancies  At present, that scrutiny has morphed into acute
apprehension. The D.C. Circuit’s eight active judges are split
4-4 between Democratic and Republican appointees, with three
vacancies. There are also five semiretired senior judges who
occasionally decide cases.  On June 4, a combative-sounding President  Barack Obama 
announced his choices for all three openings and pre-emptively
chastised Senate Republicans for blocking some of his previous
choices for the court.  “This is not about principled opposition,” the president
said. “It’s about partisan obstruction.”  When Republicans returned fire, they augmented finger-pointing about politicizing the judiciary with an argument about
manpower: they said they oppose Obama’s nominees because the
judges aren’t needed.  Senator Charles Grassley of Iowa is pushing a bill that
would eliminate the D.C. Circuit’s three vacancies on the theory
that the court is underworked. He proposes to do away with one
judgeship and transfer the other two to circuits with heavier
caseloads.  ‘Common-Sense Bill’  “It’s a common-sense bill that moves judges to where they
are needed,” he said in a prepared statement.  By certain statistical measures, the senator has a point.
The D.C. Circuit ranks next-to-last in terms of unresolved
cases, meaning that in comparative terms, it doesn’t have much
trouble getting its work done and out the door.  According to the most recent 12-month figures from 2012,
the D.C. Circuit had 120 pending appeals per authorized
judgeship; only the 10th Circuit, based in Denver, had fewer,
with 115. When evaluated by the number of appeals filed and
those resolved, the D.C. Circuit came in last place, with 108
cases per authorized judgeship in each category.  The  Iowa  lawmaker and his Republican allies aren’t the
first to attempt to use judicial head counts to sculpt the
federal courts to their liking.  ‘Court Packing’  President Franklin Roosevelt’s ultimately thwarted 1937
“court packing” plan would have expanded the Supreme Court by
six members —- a blatant attempt to counter conservative jurists
who were blocking his New Deal programs. During his 12 years in
office, Roosevelt appointed eight justices in the conventional
manner.  Grassley’s bid to unpack the D.C. Circuit obscures another
distinctive characteristic of that bench, a point Democrats will
emphasize in the coming debate over his bill and Obama’s
nominees: The many regulatory agency appeals that Roberts
referred to are among the most complicated cases in the land.  They pertain to the meaning and application of detailed
rules governing financial markets, industrial pollution,
electricity distribution, labor relations and product safety.
Members of the D.C. Circuit may have to take more time to
untangle the matters that come before them. Raw case counts,
without reference to case content, don’t tell the whole story.  Just ask Roberts. In April the Judicial Conference of the
United States, an administrative body headed by the chief
justice, himself a Republican appointee, told Congress that to
juggle its dense docket, the D.C. Circuit needs all 11 judges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Barrett in  New York  at 
 pbarrett17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ellen Pollock at 
 epollock@bloomberg.net  