-- Responsys Draws Deal Talk After Salesforce Bet: Real M&A
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2013-06-06T20:54:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/responsys-draws-deal-talk-after-salesforce-bet-real-m-a.html
Investors are betting  Responsys Inc. (MKTG) 
and  Constant Contact Inc. (CTCT)  will be the next targets for companies
seeking to beef up their online-marketing technology after
 Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) ’s $2.5 billion purchase of ExactTarget Inc.  Responsys posted the seventh-biggest gain in the  Russell
2000 Index (RTY)  and Constant Contact rose to a three-month high on
June 4 after Salesforce announced its largest takeover ever,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Both Responsys and
Constant Contact are projected to boost revenue by more than 55
percent in the next three years as more businesses turn to e-mail, mobile and social-media marketing technologies.  E-mail marketing spending in the U.S. may reach $2.5
billion by 2016, up 46 percent from last year, according to
Forrester Research Inc. For buyers interested in ExactTarget’s
technology, Responsys facilitates similar campaigns for
 customers  including Southwest Airlines Co. and Whole Foods
Market Inc., said Robert W. Baird & Co.  SAP AG (SAP)  and International
Business Machines Corp. had both looked at ExactTarget, said
people familiar with the matter. Constant Contact, which caters
to small businesses, could appeal to acquirers such as  NetSuite
Inc. (N)  or  Intuit Inc. (INTU) , according to Roth Capital Partners LLC.  “Marketing dollars are shifting and are more and more
inclined to be digital,”  Steven Ashley , a Milwaukee-based
analyst at Baird, said in a phone interview. “Large companies
are trying to put together more complete suites and offerings of
digital marketing services, and that’s what we saw with
Salesforce buying ExactTarget. There could be other activity.”  Smaller Rivals  Responsys, which had a market value of $524 million
yesterday, helps large customers deliver marketing through e-mail, mobile devices, social media and the Web. The San Bruno,
California-based company posted $163 million of revenue in 2012,
less than ExactTarget’s $292 million.  Constant Contact of Waltham,  Massachusetts , specializes in
e-mail and social-media marketing for smaller businesses and
helps them promote events and send out daily deals. The company,
which was valued at $486 million yesterday, had 2012 revenue of
$252 million.  Today, Responsys  shares  surged 12 percent to $11.93, the
highest closing price in almost 11 months. Shares of Constant
Contact gained for a fourth day, adding 2.8 percent to $16.29.  By 2015, consumer-technology businesses will have switched
a third of their traditional marketing budgets to digital,
 Stamford , Connecticut-based market researcher Gartner Inc.
estimated in a Dec. 17 report.  ‘The Eyeballs’  That’s already spurring companies such as Salesforce to
make acquisitions. Before ExactTarget, Salesforce bought social-media marketing companies Buddy Media Inc. and Radian6
Technologies Inc. Oracle Corp. bought online marketing companies
Eloqua Inc. and Vitrue Inc., and  IBM (IBM)  got Kenexa Corp., which
lets businesses recruit workers with social media.  “You spend where the eyeballs are,” and that’s on the
Web, Baird’s Ashley said.  Both Responsys and Constant Contact are potential takeover
candidates, said Nathan Schneiderman, an analyst at Roth Capital
in  Newport Beach ,  California .  “If you look at publicly traded companies that have
interactive marketing solutions, there are only a few,” he
said.  Heather MacKinnon, a spokeswoman at Responsys, said the
company doesn’t comment on market speculation when asked whether
it’s been approached by suitors or is considering a sale.
Constant Contact’s Erika Tower didn’t return a phone call or e-mail seeking comment.  SAP’s Deal  SAP, the biggest maker of business-management software,
considered buying ExactTarget and then decided not to proceed,
according to a person familiar with the matter who asked not to
be named because the process was private. A day after Salesforce
announced its ExactTarget deal, SAP said that it’s buying
Switzerland-based Hybris AG to bolster its electronic commerce
applications.  Jim Dever, an SAP spokesman, declined to comment on whether
the company would target other online-marketing companies. Co-Chief Executive Officer  Bill McDermott  said on a conference call
yesterday that he and other CEOs usually throw marketing e-mails
into the spam bin, calling rivals’ moves “quite puzzling.”  Companies such as  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE)  and IBM that serve
large corporate clients may want to add e-mail marketing
capabilities, Shar VanBoskirk, an analyst at Forrester in
Cambridge, Massachusetts, said in a phone interview.  Still Trying  “IBM has tried for years, as has Adobe, to put together an
online marketing suite,” she said. “Right now, both of these
companies have a similar set of capabilities, but they don’t
have a great outbound marketing capability. They want to create
a comprehensive platform.”  IBM also looked at ExactTarget, another person with
knowledge of the process said.  IBM’s James Sciales declined to comment on whether the
company is considering the purchase of any Web marketing
companies such as Responsys or Constant Contact. So did Adobe’s
Jodi Sorensen.  Constant Contact’s technology might also appeal to NetSuite
or Intuit,  Roth Capital ’s Schneiderman said. NetSuite’s Mei Li
and Intuit’s Diane Carlini didn’t return requests for comment.  The best targets have already been scooped up, according to
Tony Ursillo, a Boston-based technology analyst at Loomis Sayles
& Co., which oversees about $190 billion.  Online marketing “historically hasn’t been a strength of
any of the traditional vendors,” he said in a phone interview.
“This is a hole that they all have an interest in filling. But
the early movers have gotten the better assets.”  Less Evolved  While most of ExactTarget’s sales come from e-mail
marketing, it purchased companies over the years giving it a
broader suite of products and adding to the appeal for
Salesforce, Ursillo said. Responsys isn’t as evolved beyond e-mail, and Constant Contact focuses on much smaller customers, he
said. Constant Contact said in its year-end filing that about
two-thirds of its customers have fewer than 10 employees.  Still, Jeffrey Houston of Barrington Research Associates
Inc. sees more takeovers in Web-based services, often referred
to as the cloud, after the purchase of  ExactTarget. (ET)   “There are going to be continued acquisitions by large
software players because they underinvested in their cloud
solutions,” the Chicago-based analyst said in a phone
interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  