-- Tropical Storm Andrea to Dump Heavy Rain Over U.S. East
-- B y   C h a r l o t t e   P o r t e r
-- 2013-06-06T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/tropical-storm-andrea-to-dump-heavy-rain-over-u-s-east.html
Tropical Storm Andrea will spread
heavy rain across the entire U.S. East Coast as it moves
northeast toward a weekend landfall in Nova Scotia.  Andrea, which formed June 5 in the Gulf of Mexico, was
expected to go ashore in northwestern  Florida  yesterday and
begin crossing over land toward  Virginia . It’s forecast to enter
the Atlantic off Delaware late today and then hug the coast,
dropping  2 or more inches  (5 centimeters) of rain from
 Washington  to New York to  Boston , before reaching open water
east of the Canadian Maritimes on June 9, said the  U.S. National
Hurricane Center .  “Travel delays from blinding tropical downpours, poor
drainage-area flooding and locally gusty thunderstorms are
possible,” Alex Sosnowski, senior meteorologist with
AccuWeather Inc., wrote on the State College, Pennsylvania-based
forecaster’s website.  Andrea, with top sustained winds of 65 miles (105
kilometers) per hour, was 35 miles north-northwest of Cedar Key,
Florida, south of Tallahassee, as of 5 p.m. local time
yesterday, the hurricane center  said in an advisory . It was
moving northeast at 17 mph.  Tropical storm warnings were posted from Florida to
 Delaware . Flash flood watches included Washington and
Philadelphia, which may see 6 inches of rain today, while the
New York City area and Boston may receive 4 inches through
tomorrow, the  National Weather Service  said.  Andrea is expected to retain its tropical-storm-level winds
for at least the next three days, according to the hurricane
center. A gust of 56 mph was reported at a Cedar Key weather
station yesterday, the center said.  Isolated tornadoes and flooding were reported over much of
Florida as Andrea neared land. A roof collapsed on a kennel at
the Humane Society of Pinellas County, which includes St.
Petersburg; all the dogs were safe, the agency said on its
Facebook page.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charlotte  Porter in New York at 
 cporter11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  