-- Royalty Pharma Extends $6.4 Billion Elan Takeover Offer
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-06-06T20:06:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/royalty-pharma-extends-6-4-billion-elan-takeover-offer.html
Royalty Pharma, an investor in
royalty streams from pharmaceuticals, extended the deadline for
its offer to buy  Elan Corp. (ELN)  for $6.4 billion.  The all-cash bid of $12.50 per American depositary receipt
will expire at 8 a.m.  New York  time on June 21, Royalty said in
a statement today. Elan Chief Executive Officer Kelly Martin, a
former Merrill Lynch & Co. banker, and the rest of Elan’s board
have rejected the unsolicited bid.  Pablo Legorreta, the founder of closely held Royalty who is
a former Lazard banker, is pursuing the Dublin-based company
after Martin initially offered to buy Royalty. Martin has
announced transactions including a $1 billion investment in
 Theravance Inc. (THRX) ’s royalties since Elan was approached. Elan
shareholders will vote on the proposal on June 17, which will
determine whether Royalty will go ahead with its offer.  In addition to the investment in Theravance’s royalties,
shareholders will vote on June 17 on a $340 million proposed
takeover of Vienna-based AOP Orphan Pharmaceuticals AG, the
spin-out of an experimental drug called ELND005 for Alzheimer’s
disease to Speranza Therapeutics and a $200 million share
repurchase program.  Takeover Panel  Separately, the Irish Takeover Panel said today it rejected
a request by Royalty to amend the terms of the bid so that it
won’t have to terminate the offer if either the ELND005
resolution or the share buyback is approved. Under the ruling,
if Elan shareholders vote in favor of any of the proposed
transactions on June 17, Royalty must end its revised offer, the
panel said.  Elan’s U.S. shares rose less than 1 percent to $12.68 at
the close in New York.  Elan is also trying to block Royalty’s takeover through
legal proceedings. On June 3, U.S. District Judge William Pauley
in  Manhattan  issued a temporary restraining order blocking
Royalty and related parties from “consummating or closing
defendants’ tender offer” for the outstanding shares of Elan.
Pauley scheduled a June 11 hearing to consider whether to issue
a preliminary injunction.  An acquisition by Royalty would enable Elan shareholders to
avoid the risks of Martin’s strategy of reinvesting the $3.25
billion Elan received from  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  for  divesting  its
stake in the multiple sclerosis drug Tysabri, Royalty said. Elan
has said it will pay investors dividends directly linked to
Tysabri sales as a 20 percent share of the royalty received from
Biogen.  ‘Dramatically Overpaid’  Elan has “dramatically overpaid” in the Theravance deal
by agreeing to spend $1 billion on 21 percent of a portion of
royalties when all of South San Francisco, California-based
Theravance was trading at $3.5 billion, Royalty has said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp. and Groton
Partners are advising Royalty Pharma. Elan’s financial advisers
include Davy Corporate Finance, Morgan Stanley, Ondra Partners
and Citigroup Inc.  Founded in 1996, Royalty Pharma owns royalty interests in
38 approved and marketed pharmaceutical products. For example,
in 2004, the firm bought  Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer
Center ’s U.S. royalty interest in Amgen Inc.’s Neupogen drug.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  