-- Rubio Balancing Immigration Revision With Fragile Support
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-06-06T15:47:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/rubio-balancing-immigration-revision-with-fragile-support.html
Florida Senator Marco Rubio is trying
to save the U.S. immigration bill he helped write, seeking to
placate Republican opponents without splintering a bipartisan
coalition behind it.  The son of Cuban immigrants and a prospective 2016
presidential nominee has much to gain from enactment of the most
significant revision of U.S. immigration laws in almost three
decades. The 42-year-old first-term Republican is pressing
Senate colleagues to enhance border security in the bill, both
to win acceptance in the Senate this month and to ease stiffer
resistance in the Republican-run House.  A co-author of the measure, Rubio warns that it can’t pass
as written -- even he would have to vote against it.  “Rubio’s arguably putting his capital on the line,”  said
 Frank Sharry , executive director of America’s Voice in
 Washington , an organization promoting revisions to immigration
law. “He can sell conservatives like no one else. The question
we’re all asking is can he legislate in a way that grows the
vote without compromising the core elements.”  Rubio’s deal-making skills will be tested next week when
the Senate starts debating the bill, the first congressional
attempt to rewrite immigration law since a failed 2007 effort.  Rubio, among a group of senators who met privately with a
faction of small-government  House Republicans  yesterday, told
reporters at the Capitol that his party won’t accept the measure
without a guarantee of stronger border security.  Necessary Votes  “The bill as currently structured isn’t going to pass in
the House, and I think it’s going to struggle to pass in the
Senate,” Rubio said. The bill’s authors “certainly are going
to have to do more than what’s in the bill now in order to get
the votes necessary to pass a law,” he said.  The Senate measure seeks to balance a path to citizenship
for the estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants in the U.S.
-- a provision demanded by Democrats -- with enough border
security to satisfy Republicans.  “We don’t see this bill in either house moving forward or
ever coming to a law and agreement without a very, very solid
rock-ribbed border security aspect to it,”  Representative  John Fleming , a Louisiana Republican, told reporters yesterday.  The Senate measure includes $4.5 billion for tighter border
security. It requires 100 percent surveillance and a 90 percent
apprehension rate along the U.S.-Mexico border before any
undocumented immigrant already in the U.S. could qualify for
legal permanent residency. Then, it would take more than a
decade to qualify for citizenship.  Navigating Security  Republicans in both chambers say the bill must go further,
and Rubio is trying to navigate that. As one of the group of
eight Republicans and Democrats who wrote the measure, which has
been approved by the Senate Judiciary Committee, Rubio is
balancing Democrats’ demands with Republican opposition.  “It’s very simple: If people want immigration reform,
we’re going to have to improve the border-security elements of
the bill, and we’ll have to make people confident that what
we’re doing is enough,” Rubio said. “That’s what I’m going to
focus on.”  Another Republican bill sponsor,  Senator Lindsey Graham  of
South Carolina, said he was convinced that Rubio was “committed
to immigration reform.”  “He’s looking for ways to make it better and grow the
vote, absolutely, and enhancing border security is a way to do
that on the Republican side,” Graham said.  Citizenship Trigger  Sharry cautioned that Rubio can’t go too far as he works
with Republicans to meet their demands. He said that changes to
the border security benchmarks that trigger elements of the
citizenship path would be a deal-breaker.  “I think it’s widely accepted that to grow the vote in the
Senate, there’s likely to be a border security amendment that
attracts a group of Republicans,” Sharry said. “Senator Rubio
is very aware of where the trip wires are in the Gang of Eight
agreement, and I’m optimistic that he’s going to respect
those.”  Graham similarly predicted that a proposal to alter the
citizenship triggers would be going too far.  “If you change the trigger, it would probably fall
apart,” he said. “Having unachievable triggers is not going to
be acceptable to our Democratic colleagues.”  Democratic Concerns  Some changes -- such as one Senator  John Cornyn , a Texas
Republican, proposes to install a new set of border security
benchmarks that must be achieved before undocumented immigrants
could become citizens -- could spur enough resistance from
Democrats to scuttle the bill.  Although not a member of the Judiciary Committee, Rubio
weighed in publicly during the panel’s consideration of the
measure last month, at times breaking with other members of the
bipartisan group that wrote it to endorse Republican proposals
aimed at strengthening border security.  Rubio spokesman Alex Conant said the senator was
“disappointed” when the panel rejected a proposal from Alabama
Republican  Jeff Sessions  to require fingerprinting or other
biometric checks at U.S. points of exit before undocumented
immigrants could be granted green cards. The two Republican and
two Democratic members of the eight-senator group that wrote the
bill opposed Sessions’s amendment.  Rubio also worked behind the scenes to help craft an
amendment, offered by Cornyn, that required at least $1 billion
be spent on fencing at the U.S.-Mexico border.  Frayed Support  In the House, a bipartisan group of lawmakers had reached
agreement on several parts of their plan, which members of the
group have said they plan to unveil this month. Still,
Representative Raul Labrador, an Idaho Republican and occasional
spokesman for the group, announced yesterday that he is quitting
the negotiations.  While Senate leaders want to pass a bill by July 4, House
Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican , hasn’t made floor
consideration a priority.  Representative Jim Costa, a California Democrat, said today
that the window for the House to tackle immigration would close
in the next several months.  “I’m fearful that if we don’t act by the August recess
that window of opportunity is going to be slipping away,” Costa
said at a Bloomberg Government breakfast. “That’s not to say we
couldn’t take action in September and October because we can,
but boy, you get past October, nothing’s going to happen next
year, I’m confident of that.”  ‘Long Way’  Even with some of the improvements Rubio is discussing, the
Senate bill has a “long way to go from the House perspective,”
said Representative Bob Goodlatte of  Virginia , chairman of the
House Judiciary Committee. The House will take a “step-by-step” approach to immigration law instead of considering a
comprehensive measure, he said.  Many House Republicans -- including Goodlatte, Fleming and
 South Carolina ’s Trey Gowdy, another senior member of the
judiciary panel -- remain reluctant to support a path to
citizenship for the undocumented. They say they want to first
see what Fleming calls “verifiable” border security.  “When you put amnesty ahead of border security, all you
get is a bigger problem,” Fleming said.  For now, Republicans remain supportive of Rubio’s attempts
to negotiate an agreement both parties can accept. Labrador said
“not a single” House Republican told Rubio that he made a
mistake signing onto the bipartisan immigration measure.  If Rubio ends up voting against the proposal, Labrador
said, “it shows that the Senate doesn’t have a good bill.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  