-- S&P Ratings Lawsuits Moved to N.Y. Over State Objections
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-06-06T21:49:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/s-p-ratings-lawsuits-transferred-to-federal-court-in-n-y-.html
McGraw Hill Financial Inc. (MHFI)  and its
 Standard & Poor’s  unit won a bid to move to federal court in New
York lawsuits filed by 14 states and the  District of Columbia 
accusing the companies of inflating mortgage-backed securities
ratings.  The U.S. Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation today
granted the request, concluding that consolidating the cases for
pre-trial matters including motions and the disclosure of
evidence was the most efficient way to proceed.  “S&P has its principal place of business in this district
and the witnesses and evidence relating to the states’ claims
may be found there,” the six-judge panel said in its order.
“New York is also where some of the alleged misconduct
occurred.”  Almost all the state lawsuits faced by New York-based
McGraw Hill and S&P were brought in February and timed to
coincide with the U.S. Justice Department’s filing of a lawsuit
in Santa Ana, California, that raised similar allegations.  In March, the companies filed for removal of state court
cases filed by Arizona,  Colorado ,  Delaware ,  Maine ,  Missouri ,
North Carolina, South Carolina,  Washington  and other states to
corresponding federal court districts as a prelude to the
defense request for pre-trial consolidation in  New York .  ‘Sovereign Enforcement’  “Even though we have never centralized litigation
comprised solely of sovereign enforcement actions such as these,
centralization is appropriate in light of the significant
factual overlap among all actions,” said U.S. District Judge
Kathryn Vratil of Topeka, Kansas, who signed the panel’s ruling.  Deputy Delaware Attorney General Greg Strong led the
opposition on the states’ behalf at a May 30 panel hearing in
Louisville, Kentucky. Strong told the panel the attorneys
general were capable of working together without it.  The chief law officer for each jurisdiction wants to
enforce the law of his state, Strong said. He also told the
panel that there would be “significant harm and significant
expense” in compelling attorneys general from states as far as
Arizona and Idaho to travel to New York.  Panelist  Lewis Kaplan , a Manhattan federal judge, called
that argument “a wee bit exaggerated,” noting the litigants
would still need to come to New York for depositions of McGraw
Hill and S&P witnesses and that the cases would be returned to
their home federal courts for trial.  New York  Floyd Abrams  of Cahill Gordon & Reindel LLP, who is leading
the defense, told the panel that “anyone who has anything to do
with this case” in New York. He also emphasized that
consolidation would be for pre-trial purposes.  “These states aren’t losing any substantive rights to try
these cases before their people in these states,” Abrams said.  Jason Miller , a spokesman for Delaware Attorney General
 Beau Biden , today declined to comment on the ruling.  “We are pleased that this panel of federal judges agreed
with us and granted our motion to consolidate these 15 cases
before one federal court in the Southern District of New York,”
 Edward Sweeney , an S&P spokesman, said in an e-mail. The
companies have said the suits lack merit.  “It’s a big win,” Paul Huey-Burns, a securities-enforcement defense attorney at Potomac, Maryland’s Shulman
Rogers Gandal Pordy & Ecker PA, said in a phone interview today.
“You want to fight one battle, rather than multiple battles and
you want to fight it in a jurisdiction where you have some
reasonable belief that you will get a reasonable and fair
hearing.”  Local Courts  While the companies weren’t precluded from getting a fair
hearing elsewhere, the attorney said, it was clear they were
concerned with having to defend the allegations in courts more
local to the  attorneys general  who filed the lawsuits.  “That may be winning this battle, but by no means does it
mean that they’ve won the war,” said Huey-Burns, calling the
states’ allegations serious. “They still have to defend this
case, even if they only have to fight it once.” He isn’t
involved in the litigation.  Connecticut , which filed suit in 2010, and  Illinois , which
sued the companies in 2012, won federal court orders returning
their cases to the state courts where they were first filed.
Judges in each case concluded the defense had waited too long to
transfer the matters to U.S. court.  Remand Motions  Pending motions by the states to return, or remand, the
cases to their respective state courts will now be decided by
U.S. District Judge Jesse M. Furman, to whom the multidistrict
panel assigned the litigation.  Class-action plaintiffs’ lawyer Kenneth A. Wexler of
Chicago, who has practiced before the multidistrict panel and
isn’t involved in the McGraw Hill cases, said today’s decision
may affect how Furman rules on the motions.  “If I was a state, with a motion for remand pending, I’d
be concerned that the reasons given for consolidating these
actions before one judge could have an influence on the remand
decision of that judge,” Wexler said today in a phone
interview. “It seems that the panel has expressed a preference
to not have 15 different cases pending.”  Furman will also need to be briefed on the applicable laws
of each state, Wexler said. “As a sovereign, I would rather
have a judge within my sovereignty, who knows the law of the
state, making those decisions.”  The multidistrict case is In Re: Ratings Agency Litigation,
MDL No. 2446, Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation
(Louisville, Kentucky). The U.S. case is U.S. v. McGraw-Hill,
13-cv-00779, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
( Santa Ana ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  