-- Schumer Warns Against Changes to Border-Security Benchmarks
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-06-06T18:05:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/schumer-warns-against-changes-to-border-security-benchmarks.html
A Republican push to strengthen
border-security aspects of a bill revising U.S. immigration law
can’t change benchmarks for citizenship for the undocumented,
Senator  Charles Schumer  said today.  “There are some bottom lines,” Schumer said, calling the
measure’s border-security benchmarks, or triggers, that must be
achieved before any of the 11 million undocumented immigrants
can obtain citizenship “a very delicate issue.” Schumer is the
third-ranking Democrat in the Senate.  “We’re going to make sure that the triggers cannot be used
by someone in future years who is anti-immigration to prevent a
path to citizenship,” the  New York  senator said.  Border security has emerged as a partisan flashpoint on the
eve of tomorrow’s scheduled start of Senate debate on the
comprehensive rewrite of U.S. immigration law. Republicans say
the provisions must be strengthened or the bill won’t get the
votes needed from their party to pass Congress.  Marco Rubio, a Florida Republican, told reporters yesterday
that he doesn’t think the measure he and Schumer crafted with
six other senators can succeed in either chamber of Congress,
and that he wouldn’t vote for the measure without stronger
border-security provisions.  Rubio has said he’s talking with Senator  John Cornyn , a
Texas Republican who proposes setting a new set of border
security benchmarks that must be reached before undocumented
immigrants could become citizens.  Cornyn’s proposal could spur enough resistance from
Democrats to scuttle the bill. Rubio hasn’t disclosed details of
what he will propose.  Revising Language  House Speaker  John Boehner  said today he agrees with Rubio
on the need for stronger border security.  “I applaud him for his efforts to attempt to strengthen
those provisions in the Senate bill,” Boehner, an  Ohio
Republican , told reporters in  Washington .  The Senate measure includes $4.5 billion for tighter border
security. It requires 100 percent surveillance and a 90 percent
apprehension rate along the U.S.-Mexico border before any
undocumented immigrant already in the U.S. could qualify for
permanent legal residency and eventual citizenship.  That language isn’t stringent enough, a number of  House
Republicans  said yesterday after a closed-door meeting with
Rubio and other Republican senators.  Health Care  A bipartisan group working to draft immigration legislation
in the House has been struggling with another issue: how to
handle health-care benefits for undocumented immigrants seeking
legal status. The group has agreed to forgo the issue in its
proposed bill, according Illinois Democrat Luis Gutierrez, a
member of the group.  “We won’t have health-care language,” Gutierrez told
reporters today. He said the group is still determining whether
to include language similar to the Senate’s bill that doesn’t
allow undocumented immigrants to get federal benefits for 10
years.  Raul Labrador, an Idaho Republican, yesterday quit the
discussions when the group was moving toward including health-care benefits.  “It bothers me that they do not have to pay for their own
health care,” Labrador told reporters yesterday. “If they are
going to have the benefit of living in the  United States , which
is a privilege not a right, they should provide their own health
insurance.”  Boehner said his understanding of the discussions is that
undocumented immigrants seeking legal status must provide their
own health insurance and not rely on subsidized health care.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  