-- Second Child Needing Lung Transplant Gets Court Reprieve
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-06-06T23:14:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/second-child-needing-lung-transplant-gets-court-reprieve.html
A second child who needs a lung
transplant won a court order making him eligible to seek an
organ from an adult donor from the same federal judge who
yesterday made an exception to federal policy on transplants.  U.S. District Judge Michael Baylson granted a temporary
restraining order barring U.S. Health and Human Services
Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  from enforcing a rule giving adults
and adolescents priority over children under 12 for adult lungs.
The ruling, like one Baylson made yesterday for a 10-year-old
girl, allows 11-year-old Javier Acosta, who has end stage cystic
fibrosis, to be eligible for a transplant of adult lungs should
they become available.  “Javier’s older brother, Jovan, also had cystic
fibrosis,” Stephen Harvey, an attorney with Pepper Hamilton LLP
who represents Acosta’s mother Milagros Martinez, said in a
statement. “Jovan died on Aug. 15, 2009 while waiting for a
liver and lung transplant. He was 11 years old, the same age as
Javier is now.”  Baylson yesterday granted a request from the parents of
Sarah Murnaghan, who suffers from the same disease. Acosta and
Murnaghan are both in the intensive care unit at The Children’s
Hospital of Philadelphia. Baylson said yesterday that his
decision could affect 16 other people in the U.S., including
someone in Pennsylvania. The ruling isn’t binding on other
judges and only applies to this area, said Baylson, a senior
judge for eastern Pennsylvania.  Under 12  Martinez, of the Bronx,  New York , filed a complaint today
arguing that the “Under 12 Rule” discriminates against
children. Harvey, who represented the Murnaghans in their
request, said Martinez sought similar relief for Acosta after
yesterday’s ruling, according to the complaint. Acosta will
likely die before his 12th birthday in August without a lung
transplant, according to the complaint.  In a letter today, Sebelius asked the Organ Procurement and
Transplantation Network, the group charged with overseeing organ
allocations, to comply with Baylson’s order in Murnaghan’s case.
OPTN created a second candidate record for Murnaghan with a
birthdate that makes the system treat her as a 12-year-old,
Sebelius said in the letter.  Acosta is the person Baylson referenced yesterday, Chad
Holtzman, another attorney for the family, said in a phone
interview.  Tait Sye, a spokesman for HHS, said the department is
“complying with the judge’s order” in Acosta’s case.  Cystic fibrosis is a congenital disease affecting the
lungs, pancreas, liver and other organs. The lungs of people
suffering from the disease clog with mucus, causing breathing
problems and promoting the growth of bacteria, according to the
 National Institutes of Health . While there are treatments, there
is no cure, according to the NIH website.  Transplant Needs  The Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network, created
by Congress, operates as an independent nonprofit group under
federal contract to manage transplant needs. Almost 1,700 people
nationwide await a life-saving lung transplant, including 30
children ages 10 or younger, the network said in a May 27
statement. Last year there were 11 lung donors from the ages of
6 to 10, the network said.  Sebelius told Congress on June 4 that she wouldn’t sign a
waiver allowing Murnaghan to sidestep the under 12 policy
because there are people just as sick waiting for a lung
transplant, including three other children in Philadelphia. She
didn’t identify the children.  Lawyers for HHS argued in court yesterday in the Murnaghan
case that the transplant policy was established with the
interests of patients in mind based on scientific judgment. The
policy shouldn’t be interfered with, they said.  OPTN, which has formed a committee to review the policy,
shouldn’t apply the rule to children while it reviews the
matter, Harvey said in the statement. The policy is wrong and
there’s a risk some children will die in the meantime, he said.  The case is Martinez v. U.S. Department of Health & Human
Services, 13-03119, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
 Pennsylvania  (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  