-- Serbia Unexpectedly Cuts Rates for Second Month on Inflation
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-06-06T15:53:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/serbian-central-bank-unexpectedly-cuts-key-rate-for-second-month.html
Serbia ’s central bank unexpectedly
cut its benchmark  interest rate  for a second month, overlooking
a plunging dinar as inflation pressures subside. The monetary
authority sold euros for a sixth day to prop up the currency.  The  Narodna Banka Srbije  in the capital, Belgrade, cut its
one-week repurchase rate by a quarter point to 11 percent,
matching the forecast of eight of 24 economists in a Bloomberg
survey, according to a statement published on its website.
Fourteen analysts predicted no change, with one forecast each
for reductions to 10.75 percent and 10.5 percent.  “A further decline in annual inflation and inflationary
expectations is certain in the coming months,” the central bank
said in the  statement . “The fall in year-on-year inflation will
be sustained by the monetary policy measures taken thus far.”  Policy makers led by Governor Jorgovanka Tabakovic are
looking past the dinar at the weakest in six months to join a
global push for stimulus. In eastern  Europe ,  Poland ,  Hungary  and
Belarus eased policy in the past two weeks to bolster lending
and economic growth, while the Czech central bank is considering
currency sales with rates at effectively zero.  The dinar traded at 114.1015 per euro at 5:01 p.m. in
Belgrade after falling to 114.4205, its weakest since Dec. 11,
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That prompted
policy makers to sell euros for the sixth consecutive day.  Bond, Stocks  The yield on Serbia’s 10-year dollar bond maturing in 2021
rose one basis point to 5.74 percent. Serbia’s benchmark  BELEX15 (BELEX15) 
stock index fell 0.3 percent to 498.37, declining for the sixth
day to a six-month low.  Serbia first cut borrowing costs in 16 months on May 14,
reducing the benchmark rate by a half point to 11.25 percent.
Investors sold off the dinar and the country’s bonds after the
 International Monetary Fund  said on May 22 that the  budget
deficit  may reach 8 percent of economic output, more than double
the initial target of 3.6 percent of gross domestic product,
unless the government takes steps to narrow it.  The central bank is changing course after tightening policy
eight times in nine meetings through February as regulated price
increases and rising dinar liquidity drove the inflation rate to
a 12.9 percent peak in October.  ‘Eliminate Uncertainty’  “Lower food prices in the new agricultural season, low
aggregate demand and additional fiscal consolidation measures
that will eliminate uncertainty with regard to the future
economic policy,” it said in today’s statement.  The central bank wants to bring inflation to 4 percent plus
or minus 1.5 percentage point by December. The consumer-price
index will probably fall to the upper end of the target band by
October, Tabakovic said on May 15. Inflation quickened to 11.4
percent in April from a year earlier, fueled by vegetable
prices.  Dinar “assets that initially seemed immune to
international developments so far this year are now also under
scrutiny with the National Bank of Serbia forced to regularly
step in” to try and lessen the currency’s volatility,  Societe
Generale SA (GLE)  analysts including  Benoit Anne  and Guillaume Salomon
in  London  said in a note to clients today.  The central bank spent 30 million euros ($40 million) to
prop up the dinar today, boosting the cost of the currency’s
defense to 115 million euros in the past six days, according to
its website.  ‘Risk Aversion’  Rate setters are convinced that “given the narrowing of
the foreign trade and current-account deficits” the current
dinar pressure can be attributed to “trends in international
financial markets and greater investor  risk aversion ,” they
said in the statement.  Serbian Deputy Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic said
yesterday that the government won’t rush with the measures
before selecting the best policy mix.  The situation doesn’t need to “be problematic but it’s
very important that Serbia energetically embraces reforms,
sending the best signal to investors that the situation will
stabilize,” he said.  Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic ’s 11-month old Cabinet should
cut public spending by 2 percentage points of GDP to narrow the
budget deficit through reducing public administration, lowering
wages and pensions, along with asset sales to boost revenue,
according to the IMF and the country’s budget regulator.  “It’s difficult to predict what we can expect in the weeks
ahead,” Raiffeisen International Bank AG analyst in Belgrade
including Ljiljana Grubic said. The predicted slowdown in
inflation over the coming months is “not taking into account”
that the dinar’s depreciation “usually passes through to retail
prices very easily,” while central bank interventions “didn’t
bring stability to the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  