-- Shakespeare’s Guide to Washington’s Scandals
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2013-06-06T22:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/shakespeare-s-guide-to-washington-s-scandals.html
So which scandal is the worst? The
 Barack Obama  administration’s vulgar taste for investigating
journalists? The  Internal Revenue Service ’s belief that some
taxpayers are more equal than others? The confusion and
inconsistency over the attack in Benghazi,  Libya ? Or maybe the
latest one,  the seizure  of phone records of tens of millions of
innocents?  Politicians and pundits are quarreling over the answer. The
dispute over which of these scandals are important -- or even
which deserve to be called scandals -- has taken an ugly turn,
as most  Washington  disputes do these days. But there’s a way to
work out a ranking of scandals, and even a proper definition of
the term, without regard to political preference. To do so,
let’s consider where the word comes from.  Although we often forget the point, our modern word
“scandal” has religious roots. Consider the Oxford English
Dictionary’s first definition: “Discredit to religion occasioned
by the conduct of a religious person; conduct, on the part of a
religious person, which brings discredit on religion.” The word
derives from the Latin root scandalum, meaning “cause of offence
or stumbling.”  The idea was that the reputation of a religion itself could
be harmed by the conduct -- the scandal -- of its adherents. The
OED’s exemplars go back to the early 13th century. But the best
place to look is the New Testament, where the Greek “skandalon”
occurs 13 times. Although the word is variously translated --
one theory is that the literal meaning is the stick that
triggers a trap -- its most famous rendering is as “a stumbling
block.”  Biblical Stumbling  Consider, for example, this passage from Romans 14:13 (King
James version): “Let us not therefore judge one another any
more: but judge this rather, that no man put a stumbling block
or an occasion to fall in his brother’s way.” The metaphor is an
unnecessary obstacle placed in the path of the would-be believer
-- placed there, often, by the faithful themselves. The sin,
according to the early Christian writers, lies not with the
person who stumbles, but with the person whose conduct creates
the obstacle in the first place.  This is the sense in which King Henry uses the word in
Shakespeare’s  Henry VI, Part I : “O, what a scandal is it to our
crown, / That two such noble peers as ye should jar!” He is
referring to the bitter dispute between Gloucester and
Winchester, whose competition for influence over the young king
is spinning out of control. The “scandal” arises because their
very public battle is reducing respect for the monarchy itself,
and thereby weakening the king’s own image and authority.  Viewed this way, what transforms my misconduct into scandal
isn’t the repercussions for me personally but its tendency to
bring disrepute upon some entity or organization of which I am a
part. For example, Ingrid Bergman’s  notorious affair  in the late
1940s with the director Roberto Rossellini constituted a scandal
only because Hollywood of the time was struggling to project a
wholesome image in order to overcome a suspicion (fueled partly
by anti-Semitism) that its work would tarnish America’s
reputation abroad. Today, by contrast, it is impossible to
imagine the romantic or sexual dalliance of a film star bringing
all Hollywood into disrepute.  Another scandal in this traditional sense is the flood of
allegations surrounding Biogenesis, a Florida clinic that sold
nutritional supplements. Anthony P. Bosch, the clinic’s
director, has  reportedly told  investigators from  Major League
Baseball  that he supplied banned performance-enhancing
substances to current players, some of them huge stars. Even if
all the claims turn out to be true, the number of users will be
a very small percentage of all players -- but their misconduct
nevertheless will bring disrepute upon the whole league.  Widespread Stumbling  Given all of this, which is the worst among our current
crop of Washington scandals? I am tempted to choose the effort
by the IRS to sort the citizens it serves into deserving good
guys and undeserving bad guys -- an effort,  it now appears , not
limited to just a few rogue agents far from Washington. Surely
this unhappy enterprise serves as a great stumbling block to our
national project. And the stumbling is seen to be rather
widespread. A recent Rasmussen Reports poll concludes that some
six out of 10 Americans  believe that  the IRS isn’t the only
government agency targeting conservatives.  The IRS scandal represents what the Jesuit scholar Johannes
Ehrat, in  his book  “Power of Scandal: Semiotic and Pragmatic in
Mass Media,” calls a “scandal of destination”: an abuse of
authority for the sake of sending an implicit message
subordinating another entity to your institutional goals. In
this case, the scandal arose because institutional goals
themselves became confused, as the IRS sought to enforce a
regime less legal than political.  That’s pretty terrible stuff, and pundits who try to
downplay it seem to me to be missing the point: What happened at
the IRS, no matter whose decision it was, has damaged the public
image of government itself. That’s what makes it a scandal.  Yet I think there is a scandal that is worse. Let’s return
for a moment to Shakespeare’s Henry VI, as he explains, in the
same soliloquy, precisely why the bitterness between his lords
creates a scandal to his crown: “Believe me, lords, my tender
years can tell / Civil dissension is a viperous worm / That
gnaws the bowels of the commonwealth.”  If we rank our scandals according to the long-term damage
they are likely to do, then the worst is surely our ceaseless
“civil dissension” -- the inability of our leaders to enact even
a pretense of getting along. Our politics themselves are our
true “viperous worm.” The unremitting nastiness of our parties
toward each other, egged on by well-paid partisans on the
sidelines, is the scandal that truly “gnaws at the bowels” of
our republic. If we don’t repair that one, we’ll never really be
able to fix the others.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and the
novel “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln .”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu  or  @StepCarter  on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 