-- SNS Reaal Loss Soars on Nationalized Lender’s Bad Property Loans
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-06-06T09:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/sns-reaal-loss-soars-on-nationalized-lender-s-bad-property-loans.html
SNS Reaal NV, the Dutch bank and
insurer nationalized in February, posted a first-quarter loss of
1.62 billion euros ($2.12 billion), exceeding last year’s
shortfall, as it boosted provisions for bad real-estate loans.  The quarterly loss included 2 billion euros in provisions
at the property finance unit, which will be moved to a separate
asset-management organization as part of the state bailout. SNS
Reaal also reported a 972 million-euro loss for 2012 and said it
won’t return to profit this year, according to an e-mailed
statement today from the Utrecht, Netherlands-based company.  Chief Executive Officer Gerard van Olphen, who was hired in
February to restructure the bank after it was nationalized that
month, said the European Union may demand SNS shrink its balance
sheet by more than half. Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem
took control of the fourth-largest Dutch bank after it was
unable to fill a capital hole caused by losses stemming from a
property-finance unit acquired from ABN Amro Holding NV in 2006,
which was hurt as local property prices tumbled.  The Netherlands provided 2.2 billion euros in capital and a
1.1 billion-euro bridge loan, and wrote off a previous round of
aid granted in 2008. After the additional provisions, the real-estate portfolio’s net exposure was 5 billion euros, SNS said.  The government support boosted SNS’s core Tier 1 ratio, a
measure of financial strength, to 11.5 percent at the end of
March from 6.1 percent at the end of last year. With the planned
transfer of the property finance loans, the core Tier 1 would
rise to 15.6 percent, van Olphen told reporters today.  Loan Impairments  Val Olphen, the former finance chief at insurer Achmea BV,
said SNS doesn’t rule out the possibility that the EU will
demand the bank reduce its balance sheet by 25 percent to 60
percent, given it received assistance twice by the Dutch state
and given the amount of aid it received relative to its size.  SNS said last year’s loss included 914 million euros in
loan impairments, reflecting weakening real-estate markets. SNS
Reaal’s retail bank and insurance units also reported a loss of
159 million euros after incurring 602 million euros in charges,
including writing down goodwill and the value of brand names.  Taxpayers are funding a 9.8 billion-euro rescue through
capital injections, write-offs and guarantees. To ease the
burden on the state, Dijsselbloem expropriated the bank’s shares
and subordinated bonds, prompting court challenges from
investors. Other Dutch banks were also forced to contribute 1
billion euros to the rescue.  The events leading up to the rescue and the bailout itself
are subject to several probes and legal proceedings. SNS Reaal
and public prosecutors are investigating possible fraud by
employees in the property finance unit, while Dijsselbloem has
commissioned Jean Frijns and Rein Jan Hoekstra to evaluate how
the ministry and the central bank handled the matter.  The Enterprise Chamber of the Amsterdam Court of Appeal is
considering whether Dijsselbloem was entitled to seize
investors’ securities without compensating them. EU regulators,
who attach conditions to member state bailouts of financial
companies, will have to approve SNS’s restructuring plan, which
must be submitted by August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Luxembourg at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  