-- South Africa Mine Union Weakened by Arrogance, Ex-President Says
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-06-06T10:36:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/south-africa-mine-union-weakened-by-arrogance-ex-president-says.html
South Africa ’s National Union of
Mineworkers allowed a powerful rival to emerge and end its
dominance by arrogantly disregarding a small group of defectors
15 years ago, said James Motlatsi, the NUM’s first president.  “NUM should have worked to recruit those members back,”
instead of ignoring a dissident branch of no more than 2,000
miners when the union was around 300,000 strong, Motlatsi, 62,
said yesterday in an interview. “I think it was arrogance.”  The leader of the breakaway group, Joseph Mathunjwa, went
on to form the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union
with other workers at coal mines after leaving the NUM in 1998.
AMCU has since increased to a majority of the workforce at some
mines, while NUM, established more than three decades ago, has
lost members.  The decline of what was South Africa’s biggest labor union
has been accompanied by violent inter-union rivalry that has
spread from platinum mines around Rustenburg in the northwest to
chrome and  gold mines , shaving half a percentage point off
economic growth in 2012. The power struggle is disrupting wage
talks in the country’s biggest export industry and may cost
thousands of jobs. It’s also threatening the ruling  African
National Congress , which has an alliance with the Congress of
South African Trade Unions, NUM’s parent organization.  The NUM may have lost support among mineworkers because
some members perceived the union to be out of touch with their
needs, said Justin Froneman, a Johannesburg-based analyst with
Standard Bank Group Ltd.’s securities unit.  Shanduka, AngloGold  “NUM became effectively too close to management,”
Froneman said in a telephone interview. “NUM did become a bit
desensitized to their employee base.”  The AMCU has more than doubled its membership in less than
a year to 120,000, according to Mathunjwa. The NUM lost about
38,000 members in the year through February to 285,000.  Motlatsi co-founded the NUM in 1982 with  Cyril Ramaphosa ,
now the ANC’s deputy president. He is an executive chairman at
Teba Ltd., a Johannesburg-based company that provides employment
services for mines, and a board member at Shanduka Group, a
holding company founded by Ramaphosa with investments in mining
and energy and previously a board member at  AngloGold Ashanti
Ltd. (ANG)   For the NUM to recover its supremacy among unionized
miners, it will need to recognize and address its errors, said
Motlatsi, who led the organization for 18 years.  AMCU’s Challenges  “You need the leaders to be able to say, ‘Hey. Let’s look
at where me made mistakes,’ and come up with a program to
correct them instead of blaming AMCU,” Motlatsi said in an
interview at Teba’s offices. “You need leaders who are
determined, who are going to give their time, who are going to
relinquish all other activities.”  Lesiba Seshoka, a spokesman for NUM, last month rejected
suggestions that the union has become too close to the
management of mine companies.  To be sure, AMCU’s growing popularity will also pose
challenges to the organization, said Motlatsi. The AMCU will now
have to lead platinum, gold and coal wage negotiations in forums
that were largely set up by the NUM, he said. AMCU, which says
it expects to submit wage demands by June 10, may struggle to
satisfy the aspirations of its members as it takes control of
increasingly larger numbers, according to Motlatsi.  Militant Tactics  Historically, smaller mining unions in South Africa “have
resorted to more militant tactics to gain new members,” Control
Risks, a security consultant, said in a  report  last year. The
Mouthpiece Workers Union formed in the 1990s became embroiled in
clashes with police, it said.  “They competed with NUM, particularly in Rustenburg, they
caused havoc, they were ruthless,” Motlatsi said of Mouthpiece.
“Ultimately, we succeeded to deal with it because they gave
promises which they couldn’t fulfill.”  The NUM has a powerful ally in the form of the ANC and an
established relationship with the Chamber of Mines, through
which it has collective bargaining agreements for the gold and
coal industries.  While the NUM regularly holds leadership elections and has
an  investment company , the AMCU operates from Witbank in the
coal-rich Mpumalanga province and hasn’t yet held polls,
according to Crispen Chinguno, a PhD fellow at Johannesburg’s
University of the Witwatersrand.  “The reality of the matter is AMCU hasn’t delivered
anything for those mineworkers,” Motlatsi said. “If you can’t
deliver they will say ‘bye bye.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  