-- Springleaf Said to Plan Asset-Backed Deal Tied to Personal Loans
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-06-06T19:29:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/springleaf-said-to-plan-asset-backed-deal-tied-to-personal-loans.html
Springleaf Finance Corp. plans to
sell $400 million of securities linked to personal loans, the
subprime lender’s second offering of such asset-backed
securities.  Standard & Poor’s  is expected to rate $342 million of the
notes single-A, according to a person familiar with the
transaction who asked not to be identified because terms aren’t
public. Citigroup Inc., Bank of America Corp. and Credit Suisse
Group AG are managing the sale for the Evansville, Indiana-based
financier, the person said.  Companies have issued $74 billion in asset-backed debt
linked to consumer and business borrowing this year, according
to Wells Fargo & Co. Offerings such as the Springleaf
transaction that are tied to unusual collateral pay higher
yields than standard deals including those linked to auto debt,
which account for 42 percent of sales this year, Wells Fargo
analysts led by John McElravey said in a report today.  Springleaf sold $604 million of bonds backed by personal
loans secured by everything from jewelry to electronic equipment
in its first asset-backed deal linked to personal loans on Feb.
20, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company paid
210 basis points more than the benchmark swap rate on A rated
bonds maturing in 2.47 years, the data show.  Relative yields on asset-backed bonds tied to U.S.
household borrowing have been relatively stable as concern that
the  Federal Reserve  may begin to wind down its purchases of
Treasury and mortgage bonds roils markets, according to Deutsche
Bank AG. The central bank has been buying $85 billion of the
debt each month in its third round of quantitative easing.  “Every other market has seemingly gone into cardiac arrest
over the last two weeks due to concerns about QE tapering except
the ABS market,” Deutsche Bank analysts led by Harris Trifon
said in a report yesterday.  Top-ranked bonds tied to auto loans are yielding 38 basis
points more than Treasuries, unchanged from a week ago,
according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  