-- Stanley Ho’s Shun Tak Buys Stake in H.K. Budget Airline
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-06-06T10:44:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/stanley-ho-s-shun-tak-acquires-stake-in-jetstar-hong-kong.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  and  China Eastern
Airlines Corp. (670) ’s Hong Kong budget carrier sold a stake in their
venture to a company founded by gambling billionaire  Stanley Ho ,
which may help pave the way for an operating license.  The low-fare carrier, called Jetstar Hong Kong, sold a 33.3
percent stake to  Shun Tak Holdings (242) , Sydney-based Qantas said in
a statement today. Qantas and  China Eastern  will hold 33.3
percent each, according to the statement.  A local investor may help Jetstar Hong Kong win an
operating license needed to challenge  Cathay Pacific Airways
Ltd. (293)  in the former British colony. Failure to get the permit
from authorities has delayed the venture’s operations, damping
Qantas’s plan to tap travel demand in  China  with a discount
carrier.  “This adds to the strategic partnerships we have across
 Asia  with companies that have chosen to invest in the Jetstar
brand,” Qantas Chief Executive Officer Alan Joyce said in the
statement. “There is clear potential for a local low cost
carrier in Hong Kong to stimulate new  travel demand .”  The total capitalization of Jetstar Hong Kong remains
unchanged at $198 million, Qantas said in the statement.  Strong Partner  With the addition of the partner, Qantas group cut its
initial planned equity investment to $66 million from as much as
$99 million. China Eastern and Shun Tak will also contribute as
much as $66 million each.  It is “good for China Eastern and Qantas to find a strong
local partner,” Patrick Xu, an analyst at Barclays Plc said in
an e-mail today. “They don’t have to put in much money as
well.”  Qantas rose 0.7 percent to A$1.485 at close of Sydney
trading. China Eastern gained 0.4 percent in  Hong Kong  trading,
while Cathay Pacific dropped 3.8 percent, the most since May 23,
to HK$14.16. Shun Tak fell 2.9 percent to HK$4.02.  According to Hong Kong’s  Basic Law , the local government
has the authority to issue licenses to airlines incorporated in
Hong Kong and with the city as its  principal place of business .  The deal came two days after the local government said it
won’t process any applications to start airlines in the city
pending the completion of a review of its criteria for
designating local carriers. Cathay Pacific is the biggest
carrier based in Hong Kong.  Jetstar Hong Kong is aware of the review and is having a
“positive and ongoing dialogue with the regulator,” it said
yesterday.  Ho’s Businesses  The introduction of Shun Tak as a new shareholder will
provide “excellent leveraging opportunities” to Jetstar Hong
Kong, China Eastern said in a  statement  to Hong Kong stock
exchange filing today.  Shun Tak’s biggest shareholders include companies owned by
Ho’s daughters and himself. Its businesses range from property
development, ferry services between Hong Kong and Macau, hotels
and investment. The acquisition is a long-term strategic
investment for Shun Tak, its managing director  Pansy Ho  said.  “We believe the model of low-cost carrier can boost
economic development in the region and will have potential for
development,” Ho said, adding that she has taken Jetstar and
Ryanair Holdings Plc flights.  Hong Kong Express, an affiliate of Hong Kong Airlines, will
convert to a low-cost model in September with five A320s, Hong
Kong Air Executive Vice President Sun Jianfeng said today. The
carrier will start changing the configuration of its planes into
all-economy cabins this month, he said.  Hong Kong Express may have room to cut ticket prices by an
average 10 percent after becoming a discount carrier, Sun said.
The airline doesn’t need to apply for a new license, he said.  18 Aircraft  Jetstar Hong Kong will focus on flying to secondary Chinese
cities and will have about 18 aircraft, Joyce has said.  It will offer 50 percent lower airfares on average than
those by full-service carriers, Jetstar Hong Kong Chief
Executive Officer Edward Lau said in February.  The budget airline aims to have its first flights by the
end of this year with two  Airbus SAS (EAD)  A320s, China Eastern Vice
Chairman Ma Xulun said in March. Jetstar Hong Kong previously
aimed to start services as early as this month with three A320s.
Qantas and China Eastern announced their venture in March 2012.  No budget carrier has a hub at Hong Kong Airport. Oasis
Hong Kong Airlines Ltd., which operated budget long-haul
flights, collapsed in 2008 after racking up losses of about HK$1
billion ($129 million) in less than two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  