-- States Underperform With Revenue Up, Slow Borrowing: Muni Credit
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-06-06T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/states-underperform-with-revenue-up-slow-borrowing-muni-credit.html
Massachusetts  scaling back a bond
offer by 40 percent this week shows how states are failing to
win over investors even as governments add debt at the slowest
rate in 20 years and rake in the most revenue since 2007.  As an expanding U.S. economy draws buyers to the extra risk
of higher-yielding securities, state issuers can’t keep up.
Their bond returns are trailing the rest of the $3.7 trillion
local market for the ninth straight quarter, the longest losing
streak since 2007, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  Although yields are near historic lows, the states’ debt
growth slowed to 1.3 percent in 2012, compared with a 10-year
average of 7 percent, Moody’s Investors Service said last week.
Officials are more inclined to refinance than borrow for new
projects. Increased scarcity isn’t luring buyers to the bonds,
which offer a yield spread over benchmark debt that’s only about
a third of the average muni, Bank of America data show.  “That works against them,” said Michael Zezas, head of
muni strategy at Morgan Stanley in  New York . “There’s less of a
cushion in terms of total returns” as signs of a growing
economy boost prospects that interest rates will rise.  Revenue Rebound  State tax revenue rose from January to March for the 13th
straight quarter, driven by the strongest growth in personal
income-tax collections since the 18-month recession started in
2007, the Nelson A.  Rockefeller Institute  of Government in
 Albany , New York, said yesterday. An improving economy and
higher income levies fueled the growth.  State obligations have lost 0.2 percent this year, compared
with a return of 0.1 percent for the broader market, according
to Bank of America data. The governments have an average  credit
rating  two steps below the top grade, or one level higher than
the typical muni, the bank’s data show.  Massachusetts, with an Aa1 Moody’s rating, one step below
the top, reduced its general-obligation sale to about $669
million from a planned $1.1 billion, Bloomberg data show. The
offer came as benchmark 10-year muni yields were close to a 15-month high.  Higher interest rates meant some of the refinancing debt no
longer saved enough money, said Colin MacNaught, assistant
treasurer of Massachusetts.  Volatility Hurdle  “We don’t want to price into an  interest-rate  environment
in which rates are volatile like they are currently,” he said
in an interview. The state will come back to the market to sell
more debt, he said.  “We didn’t think there was enough demand to purchase our
bonds at a price and a structure that we’re comfortable with,”
he said.  The state priced refunding bonds maturing in August 2023 to
yield 2.38 percent, or 0.2 percentage point above benchmark
munis, Bloomberg data show.  Localities are refinancing higher-cost debt as speculation
builds that interest rates are set to rise from near
generational lows. Yields on 10-year Treasuries will climb about
0.4 percentage point to 2.52 percent in a year, according to the
median forecast of 65 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Refunding helped slow the growth in debt-service costs to 3
percent last year, compared with 8.6 percent in 2011, Moody’s
said. Such sales have made up about 61 percent of muni offerings
this year as of April 25, close to the highest rate since 1993,
according to Bank of America data.  Debt Decline  Kansas and  Utah  saw the biggest drops in net tax-supported
debt on a percentage basis, with declines of 8 percent and 7
percent, respectively. Utah Treasurer Richard Ellis said in an
e-mail that improving collections cleared the way to pay for
projects with cash.  “We have had stronger revenues and have earmarked funds to
allow for infrastructure investment,” he said.  For AllianceBernstein LP, which manages $31 billion of
munis, state economies haven’t improved enough.  “We’ve been a bit more conservative and have tended to
favor revenue bonds as state budgets and local budgets have been
stressed,” said Joseph Rosenblum, director of muni credit
research in New York. “As revenues recover, rebuilding reserves
is something we’re looking to see as well.”  Muni yields are on pace to rise for the fifth straight week
for the first time since April 2011. Issuers have ratcheted back
 scheduled offerings  over the next 30 days close to the lowest
since March.  At 2.19 percent, yields on benchmark 10-year munis have
exceeded the interest rate on similar-maturity Treasuries for
five straight days, the longest stretch in a month.  The  ratio  of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 105 percent. The higher the percentage, the cheaper munis
are compared with Treasuries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  