-- Stern’s Signature on NBA Ball Won’t Get Bounced When Reign Ends
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-06-06T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/stern-s-signature-on-nba-ball-won-t-get-bounced-when-reign-ends.html
The National Basketball Association’s
signature piece of equipment will carry an outdated signature
for much of next season.  Even after Adam Silver succeeds David Stern as commissioner
on Feb. 1, 2014, official game balls for the rest of the season
will carry the former boss’s name, said Wendy Unger-Moore,
senior director of marketing at Spalding. The company has made
the equipment since the 1983-84 season and the balls will be
bouncing tonight when LeBron James and the Miami Heat host the
San Antonio Spurs to open the NBA Finals.  Silver-signed basketballs will be used in games and
available at retail outlets beginning with the 2014-15 season,
at least six months after the leadership change, according to
Spalding, a unit of  Berkshire Hathaway’s Inc. (BRK/A) ’s Fruit of the
Loom unit.  “We all knew David Stern would have a lasting legacy on
the league, but a new leader deserves a new ball,” said Paul Swangard, managing director of the Warsaw Sports Marketing
Center at the University of Oregon. “It’s a missed opportunity
for the manufacturer. It’s a missed opportunity for cementing
Adam in the role he will take on. It’s really not in the spirit
of how the NBA has marketed itself to date.”  Stern, 70, replaced Larry O’Brien as commissioner on Feb.
1, 1984, and game balls for the rest of that season carried
O’Brien’s signature, Unger-Moore said. Stern in an e-mail said
he isn’t concerned that the signature will be out of date when
he steps down.   Handwriting Analysis  Spalding has created at least one basketball with the 51-year-old Silver’s name. The process called for Silver, the NBA’s
deputy commissioner and chief operating officer since 2006, to
sign two index cards. Sal LaRocca, the league’s executive vice
president in charge of global merchandising, then picked the one
he thought was better. LaRocca electronically forwarded his
choice to Spalding, which manufactured the prototype for league
approval. That ball is at league headquarters in New York.  Silver, through league spokesman Mike Bass, declined to
comment on the new ball. The Silver basketballs won’t be used
next season because there’s “a necessary break-in process for
NBA game balls,” Bass said, without being specific. Bass also 
said the NBA would use a Silver-signed ball for the 2014 All-Star Game, scheduled for Feb. 16 in New Orleans.   Each NBA team gets 72 basketballs a season from Bowling
Green, Kentucky-based Spalding, which Unger-Moore said has more
than 300,000 Stern balls in its pipeline.  “We have to manage our inventories down,” she said,
adding that it’s too early to say when the last batch of Stern
balls would be produced.  The target date for Silver-signed basketballs to be
available at retailers like the NBA Store and Modell’s Sporting
Goods Inc. stores is Aug. 1, 2014, she said.  Who’ll Notice?  Mitchell Modell, president of Modell’s, said inventory
moves so quickly that there shouldn’t be a problem if Stern’s
name appears on basketballs while Silver is the commissioner.  “I’d be in shock if anyone would even notice it,” he
said. “No markdown will be required.”  If customers do notice and inventory mounts, “then we’d
address it,” Modell said in a telephone interview. The game
ball sells for $169.99 on the NBA Store  website .  The National Football League is the most recent of the four
major U.S. sports leagues to change commissioners. Roger Goodell
succeeded Paul Tagliabue on Aug. 8, 2006. The next day,
Tagliabue presented the new leader with a Goodell-signed
football, which Wilson produced by lifting his signature from
the company’s contract with the league, NFL spokesman Brian McCarthy said. Goodell had been the league’s chief operating
officer.  The NFL’s season started a month later with teams using
footballs signed by the new commissioner.  Baseball Succession  Rawlings, the official supplier to Major League Baseball,
will deal with a signature change when Commissioner Bud Selig
retires in January 2015. Kurt Hunzeker, the company’s senior
director for brand marketing, said MLB uses about 1.2 million
balls a season and Rawlings officials haven’t discussed a plan
for the change, though there are differences from the NBA.  Spalding embosses the name into the basketball as it’s
created, while Rawlings stamps the commissioner’s signature onto
the baseball after it has been produced.  “It’s not nearly as problematic for us,” Hunzeker said.  Silver was hand-picked and named as the next NBA
commissioner in October, the same day Stern said he planned to
step down. Selig’s successor hasn’t been announced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  