-- Structured Products Investors Boost Bullish Bets on Equities
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-06-06T09:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/structured-products-investors-boost-bullish-bets-on-equities.html
Investors in structured products are
making the most bullish bets on equities in six years as they
speculate an acceleration in global economic growth will boost
corporate earnings, according to  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   Notes betting on rising stocks accounted for $1.75 billion
of trades on Switzerland’s Scoach exchange last month, compared
with $693 million in April, according to  data  from Scoach. The
bourse is Europe’s largest for structured products.  Growth in the world’s largest economy will increase to 3
percent or more in 2014, the fastest rate of expansion in the
U.S. since at least 2005, according to projections by
forecasting firms Moody’s Analytics Inc. and  Macroeconomic
Advisers  in  St. Louis . That’s giving investors the confidence to
bet on products linked to asset appreciation rather than those
offering leveraged returns or high  interest rates .  “There’s been a change in attitude from investors wanting
yield at all costs to wanting growth,” said Murray Roos, co-head of European equities at Deutsche Bank in  London .  More than 3.8 billion Swiss francs ($4 billion) of
structured products were traded on the Scoach in May, the most
in 21 months, according to the exchange. Securities known as
participation certificates, which typically replicate gains in
an underlying asset, accounted for about half of the traded
volume.  German Demand  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed for a 12th consecutive
month in May, the longest period of gains since 1997, reaching a
five-year high of 311.07 on May 22. The index has since fallen 5
percent on concern the  Federal Reserve  could reduce asset
purchases if the U.S. employment outlook shows a sustainable
improvement.  “When markets are more bullish and equities are rising,
investors are more likely to feel comfortable in going long via
participation structures,” said Dominique Boehler, head of
derivative public distribution and exchange-traded funds at
Commerzbank AG in Zurich.  Investors in  Germany ’s 100 billion-euro structured products
market are also increasing bullish bets, according to Deutscher
Derivate Verband, the country’s derivatives association that
compiles data from 17 banks including Barclays Plc, Citigroup
Inc. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Trading in participation products in Germany reached 587
million euros ($770 million) in April, a 25 percent rise from
the previous month, data from the DDV show. By contrast,
turnover of capital-protected certificates, which investors buy
to seek shelter from price declines in underlying assets, fell
15 percent to 95.2 million euros.  “For a long period investors only wanted capital-protected
notes due to fear of inflation,” said Andrea Vathje, the
Frankfurt-based head of advisory sales for Germany, Luxembourg
and Austria at  Vontobel Holding AG. (VONN)  “But now, more of the
volume is invested in short-dated bullish equity-linked notes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  