-- Student Loan Bill Had Pipeline Implications
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-06-06T20:24:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/student-loan-bill-had-pipeline-implications.html
A little-noticed part of U.S. Senate
Democrats’ effort to freeze the interest rates on federal
 student loans  could have implications for the debate over the
proposed Keystone XL pipeline.  The legislation, which stalled today on a procedural vote,
would end a  tax exemption  on bitumen, the heavy form of crude
mined in Canada’s  oil sands .  Oil refiners pay an 8-cent excise tax on each barrel of oil
they receive. The money goes into the Oil Spill Liability Trust
Fund, which Congress set up to pay for the immediate costs of
oil spills.  Foes of the $5.3 billion project proposed by Calgary-based
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  have complained that the oil would be exempt
from the taxes that fuel the cleanup fund.  Ending the exemption, which Massachusetts Democrat Ed Markey, the top Democrat on the House Natural Resources
Committee, has proposed in the last two sessions of Congress,
would neutralize that part of the Keystone debate.  The  Internal Revenue Service  said last year that the per
barrel tax didn’t apply to bitumen, the heavy form of crude
mined in Canada’s oil sands. The IRS based its decision on
language from a House Ways & Means Committee legislative report
that specifically exempted the fuel, along with liquids produced
from coal and agricultural products.  2012 Report  The pipeline would bring diluted bitumen from  Alberta  to
 Steele City , Nebraska, and then on to refineries in Texas.  In a July 2012 report, Democrats on the House Natural
Resources Committee said that the congressional language the IRS
relied on was written at a time when extraction of Canada’s oil
sands was in its infancy, at about 100,000 barrels a day. Canada
produced about 1.6 million barrels a day from the oil sands last
year, according to the report.  Democrats also have been drawing attention to spills of
heavy crude.  Exxon Mobil Corp’s (XOM)  Pegasus pipeline was shut down March 29
after a leak was discovered in Arkansas that the company has
said spilled about 5,000 barrels of heavy crude. A 2010 spill on
an  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  pipeline in Michigan spilled more than 843,000
gallons of oil, entering a nearby creek that fed into the
Kalamazoo River, coating birds and wildlife.  Brian Straessle, spokesman for the  American Petroleum
Institute  that represents  oil companies , said including the
excise tax redefinition in the student loan bill was a “flip
flop wrapped up in a budget gimmick.”  “The same dollar cannot be set aside for oil spill
response and also be used to pay for student loans,” he said in
an e-mail. “We’d be happy to discuss a 360 degree review of
federal definitions of crude oil in the context of an all-of-the-above energy plan, but that is not what some in the Senate
are trying to do today.”  Student Loans  The pipeline-fee language was included in S. 953,  a
Democratic bill that would stop rates from rising to 6.8 percent
from the current 3.4 percent for two years.  Progress on the bill stalled today when a procedural vote
that required 60 votes fell short, 51-46.  A competing Republican student-loan bill, S. 1003, also
failed to advance. The procedural vote on that one was 40-57.  The Republican-controlled House on May 21 passed H.R. 1911,
which would peg the  interest rates  for subsidized Stafford
loans, unsubsidized Stafford loans and Plus loans to the 10-year
Treasury note yield.  Unless the two chambers come to an agreement, federal
student-loan interest rates will double, to 6.8 percent, on July
1.  Markey’s oil liability bill is H.R. 786.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  