-- Suu Kyi Says She Wants Myanmar Presidency If Charter Changed
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2013-06-06T12:41:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/suu-kyi-says-she-wants-myanmar-presidency-if-charter-changed.html
Myanmar opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi said she wants to run for president in elections two
years from now and rebuffed criticism that she has been silent
over the repression of a Muslim minority in the country.  “I do aspire to the presidency as I should as the leader
of a political party that is going to take part in the electoral
process,” Suu Kyi told reporters today at the  World Economic
Forum  in Naypyidaw. At an earlier panel, she said: “There are
those who say I shouldn’t say I would like to be president, but
if I pretended that I didn’t want to be president I wouldn’t be
honest, and I would rather be honest with my people.”  Suu Kyi, who spent 15 years under house arrest, has sought
closer ties with the military since joining parliament last year
as she pushes for a constitutional change that would allow her
to lead one of Asia’s poorest countries. President Thein Sein’s
move to democracy since 2010 elections prompted the U.S. and
European Union to ease sanctions, attracting companies such as
 Google Inc. (GOOG) , General Electric Co. and  Norway ’s  Telenor ASA. (TEL)   Suu Kyi, 67, is ineligible to become head of state because
the constitution says the president and two vice presidents
can’t have a child who is the citizen of a foreign country, and
her two sons are British nationals.  The constitution automatically grants the military a
quarter of seats in parliament. Since amendments need more than
75 percent of votes to pass, the military effectively can veto
any changes. Amendments to certain sections, including the one
that bars Suu Kyi from the presidency, also need a referendum.  Military Legacy  Shwe Mann, the speaker of parliament’s lower house and No.
3 in the former military junta, on March 15 called for a
commission to recommend changes to the constitution. He
mentioned no specific clauses to be amended.  “It not only depends on speaker, but on all the
representatives of the people,” Shwe Mann, who sat in the
audience of the panel, said today when asked about whether the
military’s role in politics will be reduced. “The people, their
desire is the most important for the country.”  Thein Sein, speaking on a panel later in the day, said the
government would continue efforts to open the country after
about five decades of military rule.  “We are working hard to move from military rule to
democracy, to end the multiple arms conflicts that have ridden
this nation since independence in 1948, and to reform the
economy away from a centralized economy to one based on free
market,” Thein Sein said. “I promise you that we will not
waver in this task.”  Investors Looking  Myanmar may attract as much as $100 billion in foreign
direct investment over the next two decades if it spends enough
to achieve its economic growth potential, McKinsey Global
Institute said in a May 30 report. The former military regime’s
gross domestic product could more than quadruple to $200 billion
with an 8 percent annual growth rate, according to McKinsey,
almost double the pace from 1990 to 2010.  Suu Kyi, a Nobel Peace Prize winner, also defended herself
against criticism that she has not said enough to defend the
country’s minority Muslim Rohingya. Human Rights Watch has
accused the government of ethnic cleansing in displacing more
than 125,000 Rohingya who are denied citizenship in the country.  “At the moment nobody seems to be very satisfied with me
because I’m not taking sides,” Suu Kyi said. “I have not been
silent,” she added. “It’s just that they are not hearing what
they want to hear from me.”  Aggravating Situation  Suu Kyi said the government must establish “rule of law”
in Rakhine state, where violence has occurred between ethnic
Rakhine Buddhists and Muslim Rohingya, before the country
reassesses the citizenship law. Many of Myanmar’s 64 million
people view the 800,000 Rohingya as illegal migrants from what
is now  Bangladesh , and refer to them as Bengali.  Later in the day, Suu Kyi told reporters: “What I’m afraid
of is aggravating the situation. I do not want to aggravate the
situation by saying that one community is wrong or the other
community is wrong. What it does is to aggravate the more
extremist elements in these communities.”  At least 70 Rohingya were killed in a massacre on Oct. 23,
including 28 children who were hacked to death, Human Rights
Watch said, part of violence in the region last year that killed
about 180 people and displaced more than 100,000. In March,
anti-Muslim violence in central Myanmar killed more than 40
people, displaced 20,000 others and left about 1,400 buildings
destroyed, including mosques.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  