-- Syria Hails Qusair Capture as Foreshadowing Rebel Defeat
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-06-06T15:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/syria-hails-qusair-capture-as-foreshadowing-rebel-defeat.html
The Syrian governmment’s capture of
al-Qusair is a “strategic  turning point ” marking the beginning
of the end for the armed opposition, Syria’s premier said, as
the army promised mercy for surrendering rebels.  Retaking the city opens the door “for successive victories
across all Syrian territory,” Prime Minister Wael al-Halaqi was
quoted as saying by the state-run Syrian Arab  News Agency  today.
Al-Qusair, which is about 30 kilometers (19 miles) southwest of
Homs and controls the road to the Lebanese border, was so
severely shelled that not a single building is free of blast
damage, according to a BBC reporter at the scene.  “The government won’t allow any group or gang or
individual to point a gun at the head of the state or the
people, and there will be no weapons on Syrian territory except
for the weapons of the Syrian army,” al-Halaqi said.  While the rebels yesterday described their defeat at al-Qusair as only a single battle in the two-year war to overthrow
President Bashar al-Assad, they have suffered a series of
reverses this year, losing ground near the cities of Aleppo and
Damascus. Otaibah, to the east of the capital, fell after a 37-day battle, along with the southern town of Sanamein and Aziza
in the north. Assad told Al Manar  television  on May 30 that the
balance of power had shifted in favor of his army.  Assad’s forces will now seek to clear the country’s coastal
highway, complete the conquest of Homs, near Qusair, and then
move on to Aleppo in the north,  David Hartwell , London-based
 Middle East  analyst at IHS Jane’s, said in an interview.  Golan Violence  “The conflict could drag on for a long time and the Syrian
government could face a prolonged insurgency,” he said. Even
so, the rebel defeat at al-Qusair “is a major setback for the
opposition, it affects their ability to get men and weapons into
Syria.”  Increasing violence in the  Golan Heights , where a  United
Nations  force monitors the 1970s cease-fire between Syria and
 Israel , has created an “uncontrollable and immediate risk” for
Austrian troops in the UN force and they will be withdrawn,
according to an Austrian government statement today.  The UN contingent has 1,074 troops from  Austria ,  Croatia ,
 India  and the  Philippines  at the moment, according to its
website. The mission contains a total of about 375 Austrian
soldiers are part of the mission, according to the country’s
 Defense Ministry .  Earlier, Israel said rebels briefly took control of the
Quneitra border crossing point on the Golan Heights today before
being pushed out by Assad’s troops,  Army Radio  reported.  Trapped Civilians  The consequences of al-Qusair’s capture echoed through the
Middle East today, with  Saudi Arabia ’s Grand Mufti Sheikh
Abdulaziz al-Sheikh, the country’s top  Sunni Muslim  cleric,
calling for action against the “loathsome” Shiite Hezbollah
group, which joined the Syrian army in its assault.  “We call on all politicians and clerics to take practical
steps against this loathsome, sectarian party and those behind
it that would deter it from this aggression,” the mufti said in
a statement cited by the Saudi Press Agency.  The agency said the mufti was commenting on a statement by
Yusuf al-Qaradawi, an Egyptian-born cleric with ties to the
 Muslim Brotherhood , in which he called on Sunni Muslims to go to
Syria in a holy war to aid an oppressed people.  Trapped Civilians  Government warplanes and artillery pounded the outskirts of
al-Qusair today, the Coventry, U.K.-based opposition  Syrian
Observatory for Human Rights  said on its Facebook page.
Thousands of civilians, some of them wounded, remain trapped in
the city, according to the Syrian National Council, part of the
National Coalition, which is the main political opposition. The
council called on the  Red Cross  to pressure the Syrian
government to open safe routes for the victims, the group said
in an e-mailed statement.  The  International Committee of the Red Cross  said in a
statement that it’s seeking access to al-Qusair from the Syrian
government so it can deliver aid. The group has no information
on the number of killed and wounded, or on how many residents
are still inside the town, it said.  Syria’s army promised to fight until it had restored
“security and stability to each and every inch of the
homeland.” Even so, it would “look with a merciful eye at
those misled gunmen who surrender and drop their weapons,” the
General Command said in a statement on SANA yesterday.  Border Attack  The U.S., in a statement issued by White House Press
Secretary  Jay Carney  yesterday, condemned the assault “in the
strongest possible terms” while urging “all parties to avoid
actions that could exacerbate the already devastating toll” of
the Syrian crisis on civilians.  Assad’s victory is just one battle in the war for Syrian
liberation and won’t be the last, according to the acting head
of the opposition forces, George Sabra. The engagement “will be
followed by other battles until the country is liberated” he
said in a broadcast shown by  Al Jazeera  and other television
stations yesterday.  Assad, whose Alawite sect is an offshoot of Shiite Islam,
says the rebels are “terrorists” and points to Sunni
militants, such as the al-Nusra Front, to validate that claim.  Al-Qaeda leader Ayman al-Zawahiri called on fighters in
 Syria  not to lay down their arms in an audio message, the
Beirut-based An-Nahar newspaper reported on its website.  “Oh lions of Islam in Damascus, gather, unite, agree and
vow not to lay down your arms and not to leave your trenches”
until the establishment of an Islamic state in Damascus, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  