-- U.K. Finance Employees Say Colleagues Are Overpaid, Survey Finds
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2013-06-06T12:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/u-k-finance-employees-say-colleagues-are-overpaid-survey-finds.html
Most U.K. financial-services
employees say some within their companies are paid too much amid
negative public sentiment toward the industry, according to a
survey by the  Chartered Institute of Personnel & Development.   Three-quarters of those surveyed said some colleagues are
paid “excessively,” the CIPD said in a report called “Focus
on Rebuilding Trust in the City,” published on its website. The
study found 79 percent of those below senior management are most
likely to say some workers are overpaid.  “Half of respondents working in banking and financial
services say that the negative public perception of the banking
sector is a fair reflection of what has gone on in recent
years,” said the London-based CIPD, which represents human-resources executives. Senior managers are “less likely” than
more junior colleagues to say the negative public perception
toward financial services is fair, it said.  The U.K. capital’s position as a financial center has been
under scrutiny following a series of market abuses such as the
interest-rate rigging scandal at banks including  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
where Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  resigned last year.
Firms have also been under pressure from regulators and the
government to cut compensation amid public anger over the
bailouts of Britain’s  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)   The average bonus per employee in the financial-services
industry fell 11 percent to 12,000 pounds ($18,500) in the year
through March 2012, the  Office for National Statistics  said in
September. That compares with the average 1,400-pound bonus paid
to employees across the entire economy.  “These findings suggest that while some senior leaders in
parts of the banking sector are having at least partial success
in changing culture to become more customer focused, some parts
of the industry are largely operating as before,” the CIPD
said.  The survey of 1,026 U.K. employees included those in
investment banking, insurance, broking and banking in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  