-- U.K. House Prices Rise 0.4% on Demand, Halifax Says
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2013-06-06T07:24:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/u-k-house-prices-rise-0-4-on-demand-halifax-says.html
U.K.  house prices  rose for a fourth
month in May as government measures to help the  property market 
boosted demand, Halifax said.  Home values  increased 0.4 percent from the previous month
to an average 166,898 pounds ($257,600), the highest since
August 2010, the mortgage unit of Lloyds Banking Group Plc said
in a statement in London today. From a year earlier, prices were
up 3.7 percent.  The property market is showing signs of recovery after the
Bank of England’s Funding for Lending Scheme helped to lower
borrowing costs and the government set up a program to help
people buy homes. Data today from  LSL Property Services Plc (LSL) 
showed that home purchases by first-time buyers rose 15 percent
in April to a 13-month high.  “Market activity has improved slightly in recent months
although home sales remain low by historical standards,” said
 Martin Ellis , housing economist at Halifax. “Despite these
recent signs of improvement in the housing market, the subdued
economic background and the accompanying weak income growth
continue to be a significant constraint on housing demand.”  In the three months through May,  house prices  were 1.5
percent higher than in the previous three months, according to
Halifax. From a year earlier, values were up 2.6 percent in the
three-month period.  BOE data last month showed that  mortgage approvals  were
little changed in April. In addition to the FLS credit-boosting
program, Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  has pledged
3.5 billion pounds to help home buyers.  That plan has drawn criticism, with the  International
Monetary Fund  saying there must also be measures to boost the
supply of housing.  “There is a risk that, in the absence of an adequate
supply response, the result would ultimately be mostly house-price increases that would work against the aim of boosting
access to housing,” the IMF said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  