-- U.K. Stocks Fall to Six-Week Low After Draghi Comments
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-06-06T16:04:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/u-k-stocks-little-changed-near-six-week-low-before-boe.html
U.K. stocks  declined, extending a
six-week low for the FTSE 100 Index, after European Central Bank
President Mario Draghi cooled speculation of further imminent
stimulus measures.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  led a selloff by U.K. lenders as Sumitomo
Mitsui Financial Group Inc. sold half of its stake in the bank.
 EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  lost 4.1 percent as the carrier reported passenger
numbers for May.  Johnson Matthey Plc (JMAT)  rallied 6.3 percent after
posting pretax profit that beat analysts’ estimates.  The FTSE 100 declined 83.2 points, or 1.3 percent, to
6,336.11 at the close in London, as both the ECB and the Bank of
England left their benchmark interest rates unchanged at record
lows today. The broader FTSE All-Share Index fell 1.2 percent
today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index slid 1.3 percent.  “Draghi was expected to be dovish, and while he still
intends to do whatever it takes, he doesn’t seem to see the need
for action at the moment,” said Nick Xanders, equity strategist
at BTIG Ltd. in  London . “The market is obviously finding that
disappointing. Bond yields are spiking. Equities are not happy
about that.”  Stocks and bonds declined across Europe as Draghi said at a
press conference in  Frankfurt  that the combined economy of the
euro area will return to growth by the end of the year, removing
the need for policy makers to provide additional stimulus. U.K.,
German and French bonds fell, pushing the yields on the three
countries’ benchmark securities higher.  “We had an ample discussion of the various measures, non-standard measures that could be utilized to repair the
transmission policy,” Draghi told reporters in Frankfurt after
the central bank’s meeting. “We see no reason to act on all
these fronts. These are measures we keep on the shelf.”  Interest Rates  The ECB’s Governing Council left its main refinancing rate
at 0.5 percent at the end of today’s meeting, as predicted by
the majority of economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The
central bank lowered  interest rates  from 0.75 percent in May.  In the U.K., the Bank of England held its last policy
meeting with Mervyn King as governor today. The central bank
also left its  asset-purchase target  at 375 billion pounds ($583
billion), as predicted by economists in Bloomberg News survey.  Barclays fell 4.1 percent to 303.3 pence, for the biggest
decline on the  FTSE 100. (UKX)   Sumitomo Mitsui  sold 84.5 million
shares in the U.K.’s second-largest lender at 308.5 pence a
piece. The transaction amounted to a 0.66 percent stake in
Barclays. Sumitomo Mitsui still holds 0.66 percent.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  slid 1.8 percent to 700 pence and
Standard Chartered Plc lost 3.3 percent to 1,448 pence.  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  fell 3.5 percent to 316.9 pence as
Chief Executive Officer Stephen Hester told the Irish
Independent that the lender has no plans to sell Ulster Bank.  EasyJet Slides  EasyJet dropped 4.1 percent to 1,184 pence as Europe’s
second-biggest discount carrier reported that it flew 5.61
million passengers in May, compared with 5.42 million a year
earlier. The stock has still gained 55 percent so far this year.  Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG)  dropped 7.7 percent to 116.1 pence.
The tour operator admitted new shares to its listing this week.
The company last month announced plans to raise 425 million
pounds in a rights offer and share placement.  Johnson Matthey surged 6.3 percent to 2,750 pence after the
maker of catalysts for vehicles reported underlying pretax
profit of 389.2 million pounds for the year ending on March 31.
That beat the average analyst estimate by almost 10 million
pounds. Bank of America Corp. raised its recommendation for the
shares to buy from neutral following the results.  RSA Insurance  RSA Insurance Group Plc (RSA)  gained 0.8 percent to 114.1 pence
after Morgan Stanley upgraded the insurer to overweight from
underweight, saying the share price will benefit from a stronger
prospective U.K. performance. The stock has declined 9.2 percent
so far this year, while the FTSE 350 Insurance Index has rallied
10 percent.  Homeserve Plc (HSV)  climbed 8.1 percent to 265.6 pence. Liberum
Capital said the company may attract private-equity buyers after
reporting its full-year results. The company may soon complete
its discussions with the financial-services regulator about
inappropriate sales practices.  “The combination of these two things makes Homeserve more
attractive to a private-equity buyer, who would value the
relative resilience of the U.K. and the growth of overseas,”
Liberum’s Joe Brent wrote in a report to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  