-- U.K. Minister Says Spurring Shale Gas Exploration Is Responsible
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-06-06T10:48:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/u-k-minister-says-spurring-shale-gas-exploration-is-responsible.html
U.K. plans to support exploration for
shale gas are responsible because of the potential boost to fuel
reserves, while people living near drilling will be compensated,
possibly with lower bills, Energy Minister  Michael Fallon  said.  “There have been a number of optimistic estimates for the
amount of shale,” Fallon told lawmakers today in Parliament.
“It clearly has enormous potential and it would be
irresponsible of us not to encourage exploration.”  IGas Energy Plc (IGAS) , which is licensed to drill for gas in 300
square miles in the northwest of  England , said June 3 that its
shale formations probably hold about 102 trillion cubic feet of
gas. Cuadrilla Resources Ltd. has said its licensed area may
hold as much as 200 tcf in the same region. Should 30 percent of
that be extractable, U.K. reserves would increase more than 13-fold from  BP Plc (BP/) ’s current estimate of 7 trillion cubic feet.  Britain is pushing for shale gas after lifting an 18-month
moratorium on fracking in December. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  on March 20 pledged a “generous” new tax regime
to promote early investment in shale, and Prime Minister David
Cameron three days ago said that rules on energy drilling should
be changed to make prospecting for shale easier.  The government will hold a consultation on treating areas
affected by fracking, or hydraulic fracturing, used to exploit
the shale deposits, Fallon said. “We’re discussing with the
industry and will be consulting on more specific proposals
shortly,” he said. “It’s important that those who suffer
disruption in the area from drilling do see some benefits --
grants or expenditure or, better still, discounts on their
bills, which could really be rather significant.”  Environmental groups including Greenpeace and Friends of
the Earth sas fracking risks contaminating water supplies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  