-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Rise as Investors Search for Stimulus Clues
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-06-06T16:10:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-fall-before-jobless-claims-report.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
rose to a two-month high as investors sought clues in labor-market data about the pace of central bank debt purchases.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, rose 1.9
basis points to a mid-price of 87.9 basis points at 11:07 a.m.
in  New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
gauge had fallen as much as 1.2 basis points before weekly
jobless claims data came in higher than economists’ forecasts
and the previous week’s level was revised upward.  Bondholders are scrutinizing economic data to gauge when
the  Federal Reserve  will begin to pare monthly purchases of $85
billion of government and mortgage-backed securities, a policy
known as quantitative easing that’s intended to support growth.  “We’ll continue to see this kind of volatility as long as
the economic data is so hard to interpret,”  James Kochan , chief
fixed-income strategist at Wells Fargo Asset Management LLC in
 Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin , said in a telephone interview.  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Jobless Claims  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index added 12.8 basis points to 440.7 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  Applications (INJCJC)  for jobless benefits fell to 346,000 in the
week ended June 1 from a revised 357,000 in the previous period,
initially reported as 354,000, Labor Department figures showed
today. The median forecast of 47 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a drop to 345,000 in the latest period.  Unemployment claims, which track weekly firings, need to
fall before job growth, measured by the monthly non-farm
payrolls report, can accelerate. Employers in the U.S. added a
projected 165,000 jobs for a second month in May, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey before a Labor
Department report tomorrow.  The data “fluctuates between a good release and a softer
release,” Kochan said. “We’ll see what tomorrow brings.”  Junk ETFs  Losses on junk-bond exchange-traded funds are outpacing the
broader U.S. speculative-grade market by the most in three
years, signaling a deepening slump for debt that traded at
record-high prices less than a month ago.  BlackRock Inc.’s $14.2 billion iShares iBoxx High Yield
Corporate Bond ETF, the biggest of its kind, plunged 2.6 percent
in May, 2.1 percentage points more than the decline in the Bank
of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Index. Investors
redeemed 3.3 million shares, or about $305 million, from the
fund June 4, its biggest one-day outflow on record.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt widened 5.1 basis points to 546.9 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- at  Standard
& Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  