-- U.S. Money Funds, Harmonizing Wakalah Rules: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-06-06T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/u-s-money-funds-harmonizing-wakalah-rules-compliance.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission will seek comment on a proposal that would impose a
floating-share value on the riskiest money-market mutual funds
or allow them to suspend redemptions in times of stress.  The SEC’s five commissioners voted unanimously at a meeting
in Washington yesterday to apply the changes only to funds that
invest in corporate debt or municipal securities and cater to
institutional investors, which were abandoned during the 2008
financial crisis. Funds that serve retail clients or focus their
holdings on U.S. government securities would be exempt.  The commissioners’ vote, which releases the proposal for 90
days of public comment, will kick off a months-long burst of
lobbying from investors, fund companies and other stakeholders
before SEC commissioners consider a final version.  Under the SEC’s proposal, prime funds would have a choice
of adopting the floating-share value, putting gates on
redemptions or doing both. A money fund would be able to suspend
redemptions for as long as 30 days if its weekly liquid assets
fell below 15 percent of total assets, or half of the required
level. Investors would be charged a 2 percent fee if they still
wanted to withdraw funds.  Retail funds, which the proposal defines as those limiting
redemptions to $1 million per day, would be exempt from the rule
to float their share value. Institutional funds that invest in
corporate debt hold 37 percent of the assets in the $2.9
trillion money-fund industry, according to the SEC.  The proposal makes clear that investors in a floating-share
fund probably would owe taxes once a year on any  capital gains ,
according to SEC officials.  Compliance Policy  Indian Cabinet Approves Real-Estate Bill to Protect Home Buyers  Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s Cabinet approved a
bill seeking to regulate the residential housing industry to
protect home buyers and encourage access to capital.  The Cabinet endorsed the  Real Estate (Regulation and
Development) Bill  June 4, Housing Minister Ajay Maken said in a
briefing in New Delhi yesterday. The plan needs the approval of
lawmakers and will be presented at the next session of
parliament, he said.  India’s housing sector is largely unregulated and opaque
and consumers are often unable to access sufficient information
or hold builders accountable, according to the government.
Regulations will enable the industry to access capital markets
for growth, the administration said.  The bill proposes “stringent norms” against developers in
case of non-compliance, according to Harvesp Mehta, director at
Motilal Oswal Private Equity Advisors Pvt. Ltd., which manages a
property fund.  The planned legislation is a step in the right direction,
Mehta said.  Money-Market Boost as Rules Allow Global Shariah-Compliant Deals  Global standards for agency contracts will help the
fragmented $1.6 trillion  Islamic finance  industry develop
international money markets, according to Asian Finance Bank
Bhd. and CIMB Group Holdings Bhd.  The International Islamic Financial Market, a Bahrain-based
standards-setting body, issued the guidelines to broaden the
range of tools for Shariah lenders to manage excess funds, Chief
Executive Officer Ijlal Ahmed Alvi told a conference in
Singapore on June 3. The rules govern wakalah contracts, where
the bank acts as an agent for a client looking to invest funds
and profits are shared to comply with the Koran’s interest ban.  Harmonization of standards will avoid different schools of
thought blocking the expansion of banks across jurisdictions,
said Mohamad Akram Laldin, a Shariah scholar with Malaysia’s
central bank. Documentation will be positive for markets that
lack their own regulations, according to Badlisyah Abdul Ghani,
chief executive officer of CIMB Islamic Bank Bhd., who said 15
percent annual growth in Islamic financial assets is too slow.  International Islamic Liquidity Management Corp., set up in
2010 by 12 central banks and two multinational institutions to
provide instruments for banks to manage funds, has yet to issue
its first short-term bills.  Standard & Poor’s  said in an April 5
statement that IILM had appointed Standard Chartered Plc as a
primary dealer for $500 million in planned issuance.  IIFM’s unrestricted wakalah would be a reference point for
lenders in managing treasury operations, defining roles and
obligations of principals and agents for matters including due
diligence, profit warnings, insolvency and contract termination,
according to a paper handed out at the presentation during the
conference. Such an agreement gives the holder a broader mandate
to manage an investor’s funds than a restricted wakalah
contract.  For more, click here.  Big Companies’ Uninsured Deposits May Face Losses in Irish Plan  Large companies with uninsured  bank deposits  may face
losses ahead of smaller businesses and individual account
holders as part of draft European Union plans for handling  bank
failures .  Ireland, which holds the rotating presidency of the EU,
proposed the measure in a bid to find common ground between
nations over rules for creditor writedowns at crisis-hit
lenders, according to a document obtained by  Bloomberg News .
Finance ministers will seek to reach a deal on the measures
later this month.  Under the draft Irish plans, which would allow countries to
grant some exemptions, uninsured bank deposits belonging to
individuals as well as “micro, small and medium-sized
enterprises” would be repaid ahead of “ordinary unsecured,
non-preferred creditors,” according to the document.  EU nations are racing to meet a June deadline to agree on
the plans, which leaders have said will be a first step toward
more ambitious moves to centralize bank interventions in the 17-nation euro area. Finance ministers clashed over the draft law
last month.  “It is very important that we reach a deal on this
important piece of legislation very soon,”  Chantal Hughes , a
spokeswoman for  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services
chief, said in an interview. She declined to comment on the
details of the Irish proposals.  Compliance Action  India Acts Against Founders for Missing Holdings Deadline  Adani Ports & Special Economic Zone Ltd. (ADSEZ)  and  Essar Ports
Ltd. (ESRS)  are among 105 Indian companies whose founders’  voting
rights  have been curtailed for not meeting a minimum public
shareholding rule.  Owners voting rights of non-compliant companies have been
capped at 75 percent and they won’t receive dividend on shares
exceeding the limit, the regulator said in a  statement  late in
the day on June 4. Founders were required to cut their holdings
to 75 percent to ensure a public float of least 25 percent by
June 3.  The rush to meet the ownership requirement announced in
June 2010 led to share sales of at least $1 billion last month,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Owners and directors of the
non-compliant firms have been barred from holding a new position
as a director in any publicly traded company until they comply.  A spokesmen for Adani Ports declined to comment, while a
spokesman for Essar Ports didn’t immediately respond to multiple
attempts to obtain comment.  Adani Ports offered to sell 66.6 million shares at 148
rupees to 158 rupees apiece through an institutional placement
on June 4, according to an exchange filing on June 3.  Courts  Ex-SAC Manager Martoma Faces Nov. 4 Insider-Trading Trial  Former SAC Capital Advisors LP portfolio manager Mathew
Martoma will go on trial Nov. 4 on charges he helped the hedge
fund founded by  Steven A. Cohen  make $276 million using illegal
tips about an Alzheimer’s drug, a judge said.  U.S. District Judge Paul Gardephe in Manhattan set the jury
trial date yesterday at a hearing, while leaving open the
possibility that the trial could take place at a later date.  A lawyer for Martoma asked that the trial start in
February.  Martoma’s lawyer  Richard Strassberg  said he has been told
the government plans to file a superseding, or revised,
indictment. Such filings often include additional charges or
defendants.  Martoma, who worked as a  fund manager  for Cohen’s CR
Intrinsic Investors unit, was charged in November with  insider-trading . The U.S. says he helped SAC reap illicit profits by
trading in shares of  Elan Corp. (ELN)  and Wyeth LLC from tips he
received from a physician who was in charge of monitoring tests
on a clinical drug trial of bapineuzumab, or bapi, a drug to
treat  Alzheimer’s disease .  Cohen has denied any wrongdoing. Martoma has pleaded not
guilty. At least nine former or current employees of Cohen’s $15
billion hedge fund have been linked by the U.S. to insider
trading.  The case is U.S. v. Martoma, 12-cr-00973, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Interviews/Speeches  Abe Pledges Autumn Campaign to Loosen Japan Business Rules  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe pledged a legislative
campaign to loosen rules on businesses ranging from non-prescription drugs to construction.  Stocks (TPX)  slid as he said the
effort won’t begin for months.  In a Tokyo speech previewing his government’s economic
growth strategy, the “third arrow” of Abenomics, Abe said his
revival plan will recoup 50 trillion yen ($501 billion) in
national income that was lost during two decades of economic
malaise. He said policy makers will remove barriers to private
enterprise and legislation will be enacted as soon as autumn.  Stocks initially rose during the speech, before turning
lower. The timing of the announcement means he’s putting off
taking on vested interests until after next month’s election for
the upper house of parliament, and leaves the onus on the
central bank to boost growth for now.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 