-- U.S. Bond Funds Suffer Second-Most Redemptions Since 1992
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2013-06-07T18:54:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/u-s-bond-funds-suffer-second-biggest-redemptions-since-1992-1-.html
U.S. bond funds suffered their
second-worst withdrawals last week in more than two decades
after speculation about an eventual end to the  Federal Reserve ’s
bond purchases sent fixed-income markets lower.  Investors pulled $9.1 billion from fixed-income mutual
funds and exchange-traded funds in the week ended June 5,
Denver-based Lipper said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.
That’s the second-biggest redemption for a week since the
company started tracking the data in 1992. Corporate high-yield
funds saw redemptions of $3.2 billion, Lipper said, the largest
weekly withdrawal on record.  While retail investors have favored the perceived safety of
bond funds over equity funds since the financial crisis, money
managers and analysts have been predicting a reversal as
 interest rates  near zero would eventually rise and send bond
prices lower. Global bond markets posted their biggest monthly
losses in nine years in May, as the more than $40 trillion of
bonds in the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Broad Market
Index fell 1.5 percent on average.  Lipper didn’t break down the bond-fund redemptions into
mutual funds and ETFs. Individual investors typically own bonds
through mutual funds, while institutions are big buyers of ETFs.  Bill Gross ’s  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX) , the world’s largest
mutual fund, had redemptions of $1.32 billion in May, the first
net withdrawals since 2011, according to Chicago-based
Morningstar Inc. The $4.9 billion  ETF version  of the fund had
$64.4 million in withdrawals in May and another $119 million in
the first five days of June, according to IndexUniverse, a San
Francisco-based research firm.  Market ‘Disarray’  Gross, co-chief investment officer of Pacific Investment
Management Co. in  Newport Beach ,  California , last month
predicted that the three-decade  bull market  in bonds had ended
in late April. He said yesterday that he’s sticking to high-quality bonds as market risks are rising.  “Treasuries in the last few weeks have certainly been the
place to be,” Gross said during an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Market Makers” with  Erik Schatzker  and Sara Eisen. Stocks, high-yield debt, currency and emerging-market
bonds are all in “disarray,” he said.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress on
May 22 that the central bank’s policy-setting board could start
scaling back its bond purchases in its “next few meetings” if
the U.S. employment outlook shows sustained improvement.  Economists polled by Bloomberg this week predicted the Fed
will trim its  quantitative easing  program to $65 billion a month
at the Oct. 29-30 meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee ,
from the current level of $85 billion.  ‘Keeps Going’  In the most recent week, equity ETFs experienced $2.8
billion in redemptions, while stock mutual funds attracted $500
million, Lipper reported. In the first four months of the year,
stock mutual funds gathered $92 billion as bond funds won $96
billion, according to data from Chicago-based  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   The flight from bond funds was a global phenomenon,
affecting both retail and institutional investors, according to
EPFR Global, a Cambridge, Massachusetts company that tracks the
flow of money into traditional and alternative funds around the
world.  Those bond funds saw redemptions of $12.5 billion in the
week ended June 5, EPFR reported today, the biggest weekly
withdrawals since the firm began collecting data in 2001.  Debate Over Rates  “Every year for the past four years, people have said the
bond trade is over and yet it keeps going,” Lee Spelman, head
of U.S. equity client portfolio managers at New York-based JP
Morgan Asset Management, said in an interview last month.  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect U.S. rates to rise
over the next four quarters.  Jeffrey Gundlach  disagrees. The manager of the $41 billion
 DoubleLine Total Return Fund (DBLTX) , said this week that while rates
may move higher in the near-term, he expects the yield on the
10-year U.S. Treasury note to drop to 1.7 percent by the end of
the year. It closed yesterday at 2.08 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s a horrible time to be exiting bonds,” Gundlach
said.  One type of fixed-income investment that has remained
popular is the adjustable-rate loan. Investors added $873
million in the week to funds that buy the loans, Lipper
reported, the 51st straight week of deposits. Rates on the loans
float higher as interest rates climb.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  