-- U.S. Household Worth Tops Pre-Recession Peak for First Time
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-06-06T18:32:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/u-s-household-worth-tops-pre-recession-peak-for-first-time-1-.html
Household wealth in the U.S. jumped
to a record in the first quarter, exceeding its pre-recession
peak for the first time, bolstered by gains in the stock and
housing markets that are helping Americans mend finances.  Net worth  for households and non-profit groups increased by
$3 trillion from January through March, or 4.5 percent from the
previous three months, to $70.3 trillion, the  Federal Reserve 
said today from  Washington  in its financial accounts report,
 previously known  as the flow of funds survey.  Household wealth eclipsed its pre-recession level as gains
in the stock and housing markets help Americans withstand an
increase in the  payroll tax  this year. Lending rates kept low by
the Federal Reserve, coupled with further gains in employment,
may continue to repair balance sheets and support consumer
spending that makes up about 70 percent of the economy.  “We’re still on track for another improvement in net worth
in the second quarter,” said Guy Berger, an economist at RBS
Securities Inc. in Stamford,  Connecticut . “It is having a
positive effect.”  Household net worth is $2.29 trillion above its pre-recession peak of $68.1 trillion reached in the third quarter of
2007. It was at $67.3 trillion in the last three months of 2012.  The value of financial assets owned by American households,
including stocks and pension-fund holdings, increased by $2.1
trillion in the first quarter to $57.7 trillion, today’s Fed
report showed.  Stock Prices  Equity prices have built on those gains so far this quarter
even as  federal budget  cuts weigh on economic growth and concern
that Fed policy makers will scale back bond purchases have hurt
the market in the last three weeks. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index advanced 3 percent through June 5 since March 29, while
the first quarter saw a 10 percent increase.  Stocks rose today, after the  S&P 500 Index  dropped to a
one-month low yesterday. The gauge climbed 0.3 percent to
1,614.41 at 2:30 p.m. in New York.  Household real-estate assets climbed by $836.8 billion,
according to today’s flow of funds data. Owners’ equity as a
share of total household real-estate holdings increased to 49.2
percent last quarter from 46.7 percent in the previous three
months.  A recovering housing market is helping to support those
gains. Property values rose 10.5 percent in the 12 months
through March, the biggest gain in seven years and the 13th
consecutive advance in national  home prices , according to
 Irvine , California-based CoreLogic Inc.  Auto Sales  Automakers are seeing a boost in orders as consumers find
the wherewithal to spend. Cars and light trucks  sold  at a 15.2
million annualized rate in May, making it the sixth month out of
the last seven to exceed the 15-million mark -- a level that
previously hadn’t been reached since February 2008. Stocks of
 General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Fiat SpA, the majority
owner of Chrysler Group LLC, are all up more than 20 percent
since March.  “Housing has kind of led the way with truck sales,” Kurt McNeil, GM’s vice president of U.S. sales operations, said on a
June 3 conference call. “You’re starting to see some positive
data from consumer sentiment and  consumer confidence . The stock
market continues to do well.”  Less Borrowing  Americans reduced debt last quarter even as the residential
real-estate market improved. Today’s report showed household
borrowing decreased at a 0.6 percent annual rate from January to
March. Mortgage borrowing dropped at a 2.3 percent pace, the
16th consecutive decrease. Other forms of  consumer credit ,
including auto and student loans, climbed at a 5.7 percent pace.  Total non-financial debt increased at a 4.6 percent annual
pace last quarter, led by a 10.3 percent advance by the federal
government and a 5.3 percent gain among companies. State and
local  government borrowing  rose at a 1.9 percent pace.  Household finances on the mend are helping consumers meet
their loan payments. Mortgage and consumer-loan payments in the
fourth quarter accounted for 10.4 percent of after-tax income,
the smallest share in records dating to 1980, according to Fed
figures issued in March. The figure peaked at 14.1 percent in
September 2007.  Still, when adjusted for inflation and  population growth ,
household net worth had recovered less than two-thirds of the
losses from the recession ended June 2009, according to research
from the Federal Reserve Bank of  St. Louis . The gauge of
inflation-adjusted net worth per household shows 62.8 percent of
the losses had been regained through the first quarter,
according to figures issued today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  