-- Uganda Draws Up Plan for National Oil Company to Steer Industry
-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 2013-06-06T10:11:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/uganda-draws-up-plan-for-national-oil-company-to-steer-industry.html
Uganda , the East African country
seeking to pump its first oil, drew up plans for a national
energy company to control as much as a fifth of crude output.  The company will start operating after the president names
the board and the directors are approved by parliament, the
Energy Ministry’s Petroleum Exploration and Production
Department said in an e-mail.  Uganda is putting in place a state oil company as foreign
producers develop fields estimated to hold 3.5 billion barrels
of crude.  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , which found commercial deposits in the
country in 2006, has said it plans to start “small-scale”
output next year. London-based Tullow is working with China
National Offshore Oil Corp. and  France ’s Total SA.  “Production-sharing agreements provide for state
participation of between 15 to 20 percent during production,”
the department said yesterday. “It is the national oil company
that will take forward state participation.”  Tullow and its partners are negotiating with the government
to build an export pipeline to  Kenya ’s coast as well as a
refinery. Funding for the plant will be 60 percent private
finance and 40 percent public, and the national oil company will
hold the government’s interest, the ministry has said. The
U.S.’s Taylor-DeJongh Inc. is advising on the financing.  The government agreed with the  oil companies  in April to
build a 30,000-barrel-a-day refinery, and has pushed for a
subsequent upgrade to as much as 60,000 barrels depending on new
crude discoveries. Licenses for 60 percent of Uganda’s
exploration area are yet to be awarded, the ministry said.  Peter Lokeris, minister of state for mineral development,
said May 27 that more than 40 companies had shown an interest in
the refinery project. Production at the plant may start in 2015
or 2016, according to the government. That’s earlier than
Total’s projection of 2017.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 