-- Huishang Bank Said to Plan $1 Billion Hong Kong IPO in 2014
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-06T05:23:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/huishang-bank-said-to-plan-1-billion-initial-sale-in-hong-kong.html
Huishang Bank Corp., a lender in
 China ’s eastern Anhui province, is preparing for an initial
public offering in Hong Kong that could raise about $1 billion,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Huishang, based in the city of Hefei, invited investment
banks to bid for advisory roles, the people said, asking not to
be identified because the information is private. The share sale
may start next year, they said.  Companies have raised $4.6 billion from IPOs in Hong Kong
this year, more than triple the amount for the same period of
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Financial-services firms account for two of the three largest IPOs in the
city in the past 12 months, the data show.  Founded in December 2005, Huishang had about 5,500
employees and 190 outlets at the end of last year, according to
the lender’s  website .  Two calls to the bank’s Hefei office seeking comment went
unanswered. IFR first reported on the share sale yesterday.  Regional Chinese lenders are seeking ways to raise capital
as bad loans in the nation’s banking system rose for a sixth
straight quarter and the securities regulator maintains a freeze
on reviewing new IPO applications that began in October.  Bad Loans  Non-performing loans climbed by 33.6 billion  yuan  ($5.5
billion) in the three months ended March 31, to 526.5 billion
yuan. The sixth straight quarterly gain marked the longest
deterioration streak in at least nine years, according to data
released by the banking regulator.  The China Securities Regulatory Commission extended the
freeze on IPOs after former chairman Guo Shuqing ordered an
audit of offering documents in December. Xiao Gang, who took
over from Guo in March, has extended the policy and vowed boost
investor protection and enforcement of securities rules.  More than a dozen regional banks, including  Bank of Jiangsu
Co.  in eastern Jiangsu province and Bank of Chengdu Co., backed
by  Malaysia ’s  Hong Leong Bank Bhd. (HLBK) , have applied for first-time
share sales on the mainland, according to the CSRC’s website.
Huishang Bank has also applied to sell shares in China.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  