-- Ukraine Sees High Demand for VAT Promissory Notes, Klymenko Says
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-06-06T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/ukraine-sees-high-demand-for-vat-promissory-notes-klymenko-says.html
Ukraine will offer to reimburse
value-added tax to exporters by issuing them with promissory
notes and sees “big demand” for the instruments, Revenue and
Fees Minister Oleksandr Klymenko said.  Lawmakers may vote on a bill to introduce the notes in its
second reading this week, Klymenko said yesterday in an
interview in Brussels, where he presented his ministry’s tax
policy to local businessmen. More than 14,000 companies
operating in Ukraine have investors from the European Union,
according to the head of the newly created ministry that
combines the tax and customs services.  While Ukraine exited a six-month recession in the first
quarter, it remains in talks with the  International Monetary
Fund  over a third bailout in four years and posted a budget
deficit of 5.1 percent of gross domestic product in the year
through April,  Dragon Capital (VIETENI)  said June 3. The government owes
exporters 5 billion hryvnia ($610 million) in VAT
reimbursements, while another 10 billion hryvnia is being
disputed in court, according to Klymenko.  “This is a fight for investors,” he said, declining to
elaborate on the volume of the program or any further details.
“It will be an additional financial instrument for companies.”  Some Flemish companies have VAT-refund claims that date
back as long as 6 years, according to Luc Pysson, managing
director of the Benelux-Ukraine Chamber of Commerce. Ukraine’s
budget shortfall clouds the government’s ability to pay off the
notes and “everyone is afraid” that the plan won’t work, he
said after the presentation.  ‘Just Words’  “We have to see whether it is effective or not,” Pysson
said. “Like everyone, we have our doubts whether it will go
further than just words.”  Yields on the Ukrainian government’s dollar debt due 2023
have risen to 8.405 percent, the highest since they began
trading in April. The hryvnia has declined 1.9 percent against
the dollar this year, closing yesterday at 8.1525.  Klymenko, 32, was appointed last December and said he’s
seeking to simplify customs and tax procedures to boost the 
economy and attract European investment. Ukraine, a former Soviet 
republic of 46 million people that lies between the EU and 
 Russia , is seeking to sign an Association Agreement with the 
27-member bloc that will include a free-trade pact.  GDP will advance between 3 percent and 3.5 percent this
year, Klymenko said, providing a more optimistic assessment of
the country’s economic prospects than the IMF, which predicts
zero growth. Output rose 0.5 percent from the previous three
months in the first quarter, statistics office data show.  Fewer Issues  Discussions over growth are one reason Ukraine hasn’t
signed a loan agreement with the Washington-based lender over
its request for about $15 billion in aid, First Deputy Prime
Minister Serhiy Arbuzov said April 29.  There are fewer outstanding issues with the IMF by the day,
according to Klymenko, who predicts that a loan agreement will
be signed this year. The fund has demanded Ukraine lower
domestic heating subsidies to bolster its public finances, a
move the government has rejected.  Cutting the VAT rate to 17 percent starting next year is
another issue being discussed with the IMF, Klymenko said.  “There’s apprehension it will lead to lowering the tax
base,” he said. “There are situations when with a tax-rate
decrease, the tax base increases and budget revenue, if it
doesn’t increase, at least it stays at the same level.”  While the government is looking to significantly expand the
tax base, including through more efficient administration, it
doesn’t plan new taxes, according to Klymenko. It’s in talks
with beer manufacturers over increasing duties on the drink and
plans to send proposals to parliament this autumn, he said,
without elaborating.  “Rules to pay excise duties will change -- this is a
fact,” Klymenko said. “There are sufficient reserves there. We
will not delay this issue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  