-- UN Beats $30 Billion Goal to Fund Climate Aid in Poorer Nations
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-06-06T16:34:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/un-beats-30-billion-goal-to-fund-climate-aid-in-poorer-nations.html
Japan  and  Norway  topped a list of
industrialized nations that beat a $30 billion funding goal for
climate-protection projects in poorer countries,  Climate
Analytics  said as it urged better coordination in future rounds.  Developed nations paid out $35.9 billion of public funds
and $3 billion of private finance in the three years through
2012, the Berlin-based researcher said in a  report . Japan’s
$17.6 billion of aid and Norway’s $2.1 billion far exceeded
their “fair share” of the United Nations target, it said.  Progress reports on the UN aid program, called Fast Start,
previously sparked criticism from recipient nations that the
allocation of funds wasn’t transparent. November estimates of
the financing ranged from $23.6 billion to almost $34 billion.
Countries at climate talks in Bonn are now pushing for clarity
on how industrialized nations will deliver the annual $100
billion they’ve promised by 2020.  “We need a body to intervene and give us a level of
confidence that finance and support is flowing,” Malian envoy
Seyni Nafo told delegates yesterday in the German city. Climate
finance is a linchpin of the talks, which are aimed at devising
a new international treaty to fight global warming by 2015.  The $9.8 billion of funds delivered by the 27-nation
European Union almost met its fair share, while the U.S.
undershot on $7.5 billion, Climate Analytics said. Seventy-one
percent of the total finance went to emission-reduction ventures
rather than adaptation projects such as water conservation or
flood defense, today’s report shows.  New Approach  The researcher studied national submissions to the UN
Framework Convention on  Climate Change  to compile the study. It
said that a more organized approach will be needed to measure
the $100 billion target, and that more aid will have to flow to
projects that help nations adapt to climate change.  “While the reports state that governments delivered what
they promised, the broad nature of their commitments and lack of
specific objectives are not the type and scale developing
countries need to make the transformational change to low-emission and climate-resilient development,” said Laetitia de
Marez, finance policy analyst at Climate Analytics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  