-- Hungary Yields Jump to Two-Month High as Rate-Cut Bets Recede
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-06-06T15:57:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/hungary-yields-jump-to-two-month-high-as-rate-cut-bets-recede.html
Hungary’s bond yields rose to the
highest level in two months as traders pared bets the central
bank will continue cutting interest rates after 10 consecutive
months of easing.  Yields on the government’s benchmark 10-year notes rose 17
basis points, or 0.17 percentage point, to 5.90 percent at 4:07
p.m. in Budapest, the highest level on a closing basis since
April 5. The Debt Management Agency auctioned less debt than
planned as borrowing costs jumped.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank cut its main rate to a record 4.5
percent on May 28 in a 10th straight 25 basis point reduction,
saying more easing is possible if “favorable” market
conditions persist. Still, traders reduced bets on further rate
cuts to the least in a year as concern the U.S. Federal Reserve
may taper stimulus measures curbed demand for emerging-market
assets.  “Rate-cut expectations had been excessive; that is what is
being corrected now,” Sandor Jobbagy, a Budapest-based analyst
at CIB Bank Zrt., a unit of Intesa Sanpaolo SpA, wrote by e-mail
today. “Yields also jumped because of the recent forint
weakness that was caused by global impacts.”  The forint has slumped 3.2 percent since May 28 and is
trading at 299.05 per euro, the weakest in five weeks.  Forward-rate agreements used to wager on three-month rates
in nine months traded at 4.05 percent, 33 basis points below the
Budapest Interbank Offered Rate, the narrowest spread since June
2012. That compares with a spread of as much as 127 basis points
on May 17.  Currency Weakness  “We don’t think the FRA curve prices enough in the way of
rate reductions,” Siddharth Kapoor, a London-based strategist
at Deutsche Bank AG, said by e-mail. “The central bank is more
tolerant of currency weakness today, even with euro-forint
around 300, than it has been previously.”  Hungary’s budget was based on the central bank rate falling
to 4.5 percent, yet borrowing costs may drop as much as 1
percentage point lower than that, Gazdasagi Radio reported on
its website late yesterday, citing an interview with Economy
Minister  Mihaly Varga . Varga said he doesn’t want to interfere
in the Monetary Council’s decisions, Gazdasagi reported.  “Rates below 4 percent can’t be excluded,” CIB’s Jobbagy
said. “At the same time, market expectations have a strong
effect on monetary decisions.”  The Debt Management Agency raised 45 billion forint ($198
million) in 12-month Treasury bills at today’s auction, 5
billion less than planned. The average yield was 4.16 percent,
the  highest  in two months, according to data from the agency
tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  