-- Hungary GDP Recovery Limited by Investment, Industry
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-06-06T09:44:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/hungary-gdp-recovery-limited-by-investment-industry.html
Hungary’s recovery from a recession
was hampered by plunging investment and shrinking industry,
statistics office data showed.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.7 percent from the previous
three months in the first quarter, expanding for the first time
since 2011, the statistics office said today, confirming its
preliminary estimate. GDP shrank 0.9 percent from the first
three months of 2012, also matching the initial reading.  While agriculture expanded 12.3 percent from a year earlier
and construction grew 4.2 percent, benefiting from a low base,
according to statistician Pal Pozsonyi, fixed capital formation,
an indicator of investment, declined 5.6 percent and industry
contracted 3.2 percent. Household consumption fell 1.2 percent.  “Regarding future growth prospects, the continuation of
the decline in investments can’t be seen as too encouraging,”
Orsolya Nyeste and Zoltan Arokszallasi, Budapest-based
economists at Erste Bank AG, said today by e-mail. They forecast
0.2 percent growth for 2013.  Prime Minister Viktor Orban, who faces elections in 2014,
has sounded an optimistic tone on  Hungary ’s economy outlook,
saying May 30 that it’s “one of the most promising in Europe.”
GDP growth may reach 1 percent this year, according to the
premier, whose forecast exceeds the government’s 0.7 percent
projection and the European Union’s 0.2 percent estimate.  The forint, which has lost 2 percent against the euro this
year, rose 0.5 percent to 297.72 as of 10:55 a.m. in Budapest,
having dropped to a more-than four-week low yesterday.  Biggest Contributions  Agriculture and construction output contributed most to GDP
in the first quarter, according to the statistics office, rising
27.6 percent and 1.5 percent from the previous quarter as
industrial production fell 2.5 percent. Exports rose 3.3 percent
from the previous three months and 1.3 percent from a year ago.  Orban sacrificed growth in his first two years in office to
bring the budget deficit within the EU limit of 3 percent of
economic output and remove the threat of cuts in funding from
the 27-member bloc. Measures included Europe’s highest bank tax
and extraordinary corporate levies on industries such as energy,
damaging lending and investment.  The European Commission last month recommended allowing
Hungary to exit budget monitoring for fiscal offenders for the
first time since 2004, a move Orban said was a validation of his
economic policies. Hungary’s business environment has
“constantly deteriorated in the last three years due to a
series of measures including restrictions on investors and an
unstable regulatory framework,” the commission said May 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  