-- Unilever to Make Flavors in Myanmar Amid $656 Million Investment
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n   a n d   H a s l i n d a   A m i n
-- 2013-06-06T09:41:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/unilever-to-make-flavors-in-myanmar-amid-656-million-investment.html
Unilever (ULVR) , the world’s second biggest
consumer goods company, is starting to manufacture food
seasoning in Myanmar as it prepares to spend 500 million euros
($656 million) in the country over the next decade.  The  company , which has been selling in Myanmar through
third-party distributors since 2010, has a roadmap to “go
deeper with fewer categories” such as savories, seasonings,
shampoos and laundry and then build on it, Chief Operating
Officer Harish Manwani said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television at Naypyidaw.  Unilever joins  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and Ford Motor Co. in starting
operations in the southeast Asian nation, which reopened its
borders last year to foreign investment. Companies are looking
to tap the potential of rising  consumer spending  in a country
where the economy is estimated by the  International Monetary
Fund  to expand at a faster pace this fiscal year from the
previous 12 months.  “It is a large market, fast growing, young population,”
Manwani said. “The excitement is about growth.”  Myanmar has an estimated 46 million people between the age
of 15 and 64, out of a total of more than 60 million people,
according to a  report by McKinsey Global Institute .  The number of people in the country with sufficient income
for discretionary spending could rise to as many as 19 million
in 2030 from 2.5 million now, thereby potentially tripling
consumer spending to $100 billion, McKinsey said. This pace
would be achieved if Myanmar’s economy expands at 8 percent
annually, it said.  Seasonings Plant  Unilever will start making food seasonings under its Knorr
brand at a plant in Yangon in a few weeks. The company will
increase its staff to 270 by end of this month and hire an
additional 200 people by early 2014, it said in an e-mailed
statement.  “We have a certain repeatable model for how we want to win
in developing markets,” Manwani said. “The critical success
factor here is not market share, it’s going to be market
development.”  President  Thein Sein  has allowed more political freedom and
loosened economic controls since coming to power two years ago,
prompting the U.S. and other nations to ease sanctions.  The country opening up is likely to boost tourism.  AirAsia
Bhd. (AIRA) , the region’s biggest budget airline, plans to carry as
many as 30 percent of tourists visiting Myanmar for business or
leisure travel, Chief Executive Officer  Tony Fernandes  said in
an interview. The southeast Asian nation may have about 3
million tourists this year, he said.  Unilever and Coca Cola are among attendees at the three-day
 World Economic Forum  on  East Asia  hosted by Myanmar this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net ;
Haslinda Amin in Singapore at 
 hamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  