-- Turkey’s Revolt Will Fail. Ask the Russians.
-- B y   L e o n i d   B e r s h i d s k y
-- 2013-06-06T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/turkey-s-revolt-will-fail-ask-the-russians-.html
Anyone who witnessed how  Russia ’s
“Snow Revolution” of 2011 and 2012 fizzled can confidently
predict the failure of the Taksim riots in  Turkey .  In recent years, mass protests in authoritarian states have
succeeded only where the rioters had little or nothing to lose,
and so were prepared to unleash serious violence. That wasn’t
the case in Moscow, and it isn’t the case in Istanbul, where the
majority of the protesters are relatively prosperous members of
the middle class.  Tragic as the death tolls of the Arab Spring rebellions
are, they provide an indicator of the poverty-fueled rage,
amplified by religious fundamentalism, that set those events
apart. In  Libya , more than 30,000 died in clashes that resulted
in the public torture and killing of dictator  Muammar Qaddafi .
In  Egypt , 846 perished; in  Tunisia  and Yemen, more than 200
each.  Syria , where the outcome is unclear, has seen tens of
thousands of deaths.  In Russia, by contrast, the only fighting took place on May
6, 2012, the day before President  Vladimir Putin ’s inauguration.
Riot police formed a narrow corridor for marchers trying to
enter a square in central Moscow where an anti-Putin rally was
taking place. Some fighting ensued, with the most radical
protesters throwing rocks and bottles or pulling helmets off
police officers.  Show Trial  This week, a major show trial started for 12 protesters
accused of violence against law enforcement officers. The
injuries those officers suffered were minor; it is unclear
whether any of them were hospitalized. Protesters suffered a few
broken limbs and concussions. Pretty much all other anti-Putin
rallies in Moscow transpired without any violence at all.  Turkey’s experience so far is similar to Russia’s. Sadly,
some have died, but the deaths seem accidental rather than the
direct outcome of fighting. Overturned cars and broken windows
hardly count as signs of civil war. As in Russia,
demonstrators are taking issue with the suppression of political
freedoms and the spread of religious obscurancy, rather than
with poverty or other economic woes. The religious zealots are
on the ruling regime’s side.  Turkish leftists and Kemalists are unhappy with the
political direction in which pro-Islamic, authoritarian Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  is taking their secular,
democratic country. But they can’t deny the  economic progress 
Turkey has made under his rule. Many of them have benefited from
it. Indeed, they feel important and empowered enough to demand
that the government listen to them when they tell it to stop
construction in a public park.  In Moscow, the rebellious middle class also took to the
streets to demand inclusion. A rigged parliamentary election in
2011 and a general feeling that their voices were being ignored
catalyzed their discontent with a government bent on restoring
traditional Russian values, including the dominance of the
Orthodox Church, in a country that had made large strides toward
the West in the 1990s.  The educated people who value political freedoms, religious
neutrality and a more inclusive form of government are not
willing to die for these values, because their absence isn’t
essentially life-threatening. This is fortunate for the likes of
Putin and Erdogan. They can subdue the most radical elements in
the protests by force, and the rest of the discontented masses
will go back to their jobs and cafes. Qaddafi or Egyptian
President  Hosni Mubarak  could not have gotten off so lightly.  In each of the Arab countries where dictatorial regimes
fell, the Muslim Brotherhood was heavily involved in the
protests. The Brotherhood focuses on charity activities among
the underprivileged, many of whom were consequently willing to
risk their lives for the cause. The liberals, who also gained
access to government in the aftermath of the revolutions in some
countries, notably Tunisia, have arguably come along for the
ride.  In countries where the regimes are more radical than the
protesters, street action is doomed. Gone are the days of
peaceful revolts like the bloodless Rose Revolution of 2003 in
 Georgia  and the Orange Revolution of 2004-2005 in Ukraine.
Dictators have learned their lesson. They are less afraid to
show their true colors, confident that they can portray pro-democracy protesters as marginal elements to the majority that
brought them to power in the first place.  (Leonid Bershidsky is an editor and novelist based in
Moscow. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Leonid Bershidsky at  bershidsky@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 