-- Turkish Bonds, Stocks Slump as Erdogan Fails to Calm Investors
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c   a n d   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-06-06T15:41:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/turkish-bonds-slump-while-lira-climbs-as-central-bank-tightens.html
Turkish bond yields surged and stocks
slumped after Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan failed to calm
investor concern as anti-government protesters demonstrated for
the seventh day. The lira depreciated.  “The dominance of a minority over the majority cannot be
allowed,” Erdogan said in Tunis, Tunisia, the last stop in his
tour of three north African countries. A project to develop
Istanbul’s Taksim Square, the center of the protests, will
“respect the environment,” he said during a joint news
conference with his Tunisian counterpart Ali Larayedh, accusing
protesters of damaging state property.  Yields on two-year benchmark bonds advanced 46 basis points
to 6.78 percent at 5:48 p.m. in Istanbul, extending the weekly
jump to 71 basis points. The  Borsa Istanbul National 100 (XU100)  index
retreated 4.7 percent to 75,895.26 at the close, its lowest
level since Dec. 6. The lira weakened 0.3 percent to 1.8986 a
dollar, after earlier strengthening as much as 0.6 percent.  “While I was just hoping that Erdogan may soften his tone,
clearly it’s too early for that,”  Piotr Matys , an emerging-markets analyst at 4Cast Ltd. in  London , said in e-mailed
comments. The statement is fueling “further selloff in Turkish
bonds,” he said.  CDS Advance  As protests and clashes with the police continued in cities
including Istanbul and Ankara, a group that took to the streets
in Erdogan’s hometown of Rize was attacked yesterday. The
incident came after Erdogan said before departing for his North
Africa tour on June 3 that he was “restraining” his supporters
from retaliating against protests. At today’s press conference,
he said his supporters “never took to streets.”  The cost of insuring  Turkish debt  against default using
five-year credit-default swaps rose 19 basis points to 172
today, up from 131 at the end of last week, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The measure was at 283 basis points a
year ago.  “The market is in the crossfire,” Bulent Topbas, a fund
manager at Strateji Menkul Degerler AS, said in a phone
interview before Erdogan spoke. “Investors were already exiting
 emerging markets  on speculation that the U.S. Federal Reserve
will reduce asset purchases. The protests have added insult to
injury.” Topbas estimated capital outflows of “at least $1
billion” in the past week due to the unrest.  Market Slump  The anti-government movement spread across Turkey after
police attacked demonstrators opposing plans to develop a park
in Taksim on May 31. The protesters have called for the
resignation of Erdogan, saying he’s become too autocratic. On
June 3, the first business day after the protests, Turkish
stocks plummeted more than 10 percent, the most in more than a
decade, while two-year bond yields surged 71 basis points, the
most in percentage terms since Bloomberg began compiling the
data in 2005.  The central bank on May 16 lowered its benchmark one-week
repo rate by 0.5 percentage point to a record low of 4.5
percent, while also cutting the top and bottom ends of its so-called interest-rate corridor by the same amount.  “The central bank’s assumptions when it cut interest rates
have been overridden by the developments,” Topbas said. “It
was like wearing a bikini while the weather was becoming
colder.”  Governor Erdem Basci will deliver a speech on monetary
policy in the northern Turkish city of Giresun on June 12, the
central bank said in an e-mailed statement today. The bank’s
rate-setting committee next meets on June 18 in Ankara.  “Institutional investors who know  Turkey  well could have
perceived a buying opportunity after the past week’s decline,
but they didn’t,” Strateji’s Topbas said. “A question has been
developing on whether there’s political risk in Turkey.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  