-- Useless Rial Is U.S. Goal in New Iran Sanctions, Treasury Says
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-06-06T17:36:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/useless-rial-is-u-s-goal-in-new-iran-sanctions-treasury-says.html
The U.S. wants to make  Iran ’s
currency useless in global commerce through an executive order
that gives financial institutions a July 1 deadline to stop
dealing in rials or face sanctions, Treasury official  David Cohen  said.  President  Barack Obama  issued the  order  June 3, and “the
purpose of the one-month phase-in period is to give financial
institutions currently holding rials the opportunity to dump
them,” said Cohen, the Treasury Department’s undersecretary for
terrorism and financial intelligence, in an interview today in
Washington.  “The idea is to cause depreciation of the rial and make it
unusable in international commerce,” he said. “On July 1 we
will have the ability to impose sanctions on any foreign bank
that exchanges rial to any other currency or that holds rial-denominated accounts.”  The move is intended to toughen sanctions that so far
failed to press the Islamic republic to halt its nuclear
program. According to the Treasury, the rial has lost more than
two-thirds of its value in the past two years, trading at 36,000
per  U.S. dollar  as of April 30, compared with 16,000 at the
start of 2012. That’s deprived Iran, the source of the world’s
No. 4 proven oil reserves, of a large portion of energy revenue.  Obama’s order said the U.S. would impose penalties on
foreign financial institutions that knowingly conduct or
facilitate “significant transactions” for the purchase or sale
of the Iranian rial. It was the ninth executive order that Obama
has signed sanctioning Iran, which will hold presidential
elections June 14.  Nuclear Pursuits  The country, hit by financial and trade sanctions from the
U.S. and the European Union, contends its nuclear program is for
peaceful purposes and has refused to back down from what it
calls its right to pursue the technology.  Iran exported 1.1 million barrels of oil a day in March,
about 50 percent less than a year earlier, according to
International Energy Agency estimates. Iran’s oil revenues fell
27 percent last year, the U.S. Energy Department said April 26.  The latest U.S. sanctions also target Iran’s automotive
industry, penalizing companies that sell goods or services to
Iran for vehicle manufacturing.  The administration has said its dual-track strategy on Iran
seeks to impose sanctions while offering the Iranian government
an opportunity to restart talks on its nuclear programs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in  Washington  at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  