-- Venezuela May Prices Rose at Record Pace After 32% Devaluation
-- B y   A n a t o l y   K u r m a n a e v   a n d   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2013-06-06T18:43:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/venezuela-may-prices-rose-at-record-pace-after-32-devaluation.html
Venezuelan consumer prices increased
at a record pace in May after a devaluation of the bolivar
pushed up the cost of imports.  Prices climbed 6.1 percent from April, the central bank
said today in an e-mailed statement, the fastest expansion since
the consumer price index was created in 2008 and exceeding the
4.1 percent median estimate of four economists in a Bloomberg
survey. The annual inflation rate accelerated to 35.2 percent
from 29.4 percent the month before. Prices in Caracas rose 6.2
percent in May, the highest monthly jump since June 1996.  Venezuela ’s government has only held one auction of dollars
since introducing a new exchange system in March, one month
after it devalued the currency 32 percent. That has left
companies starved of the greenbacks they need for imports,
forcing them to turn to the black market rate of about 30
bolivars to the dollar, compared with the official rate of 6.3.  “These figures came about in a scenario affected by the
foreign exchange adjustment in February and by the raising of
the minimum salary from May 1,” the central bank said.  The subsequent decline in imports is pushing up the cost of
available goods. Food, transport and restaurants and hotels
pushed prices higher in May, rising 10 percent, 3.9 percent and
6 percent respectively, the bank said.  Venezuela in February devalued the bolivar from 4.3
bolivars per dollar in a bid to close an estimated combined
fiscal deficit in 2012 of 14.5 percent of gross domestic product
for the government and state oil company Petroleos de Venezuela
SA, according to Bank of America Corp. analyst Francisco Rodriguez.  As the economic situation deteriorates and dollars become
more scarce, Finance Minister Nelson Merentes said May 30 he
will meet investors in North America and Europe in the first
such trip for nine years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anatoly Kurmanaev in Caracas at 
 akurmanaev1@bloomberg.net ;
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  