-- VeriFone Falls After Profit, Sales Forecast Miss
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-06-06T20:12:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/verifone-falls-after-profit-sales-forecast-miss.html
VeriFone Systems Inc. (PAY)  plunged 21
percent after the maker of credit-card terminals forecast fiscal
third-quarter sales and profit that missed estimates amid
product delays in several global markets.  The shares tumbled to $17.37 at the close in  New York , for
the biggest decline since Feb. 21. Earnings excluding some items
will be about 20 cents a share on revenue of about $400 million
for the period, which ends in July,  San Jose , California-based
VeriFone said in a statement yesterday. Analysts on average had
 predicted  profit of 51 cents on sales of $460.2 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A canceled distribution arrangement in the  Middle East  and
lags for new product introductions in  Europe , Brazil and  Canada 
are curbing sales of VeriFone’s credit and debit-card accepting
terminals that are used in retail stores, gas stations and
taxicabs, the company said. Threatened by newcomers like Square
Inc., EBay Inc.’s PayPal, Intuit Inc., Groupon Inc. and Bank of
America Corp., VeriFone has been losing share in many markets.  VeriFone faces “continued turbulence on most fronts,”
Michael Grondahl, an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos., wrote in a
research note today. There are “product development delays in
many geographies that drove customers to purchase competitors’
products as a patch,” he said.  Takeover Potential  VeriFone’s market value shrunk to about $1.89 billion as
the shares retreated to a 52-week low, making the company a more
attractive acquisition target, according to Wayne Johnson, an
Atlanta-based analyst at Raymond James & Associates Inc.
Machines entering the market later this year are expected to
bolster revenue, which may prompt takeover interest from
companies such as Fujitsu Ltd., he said.  “It makes them a potential target for a strategic buyer,”
Johnson said in an interview. “This should essentially be self-corrected really by the fourth quarter. I don’t think it’s a
falling knife.”  Victoria Brown, a spokeswoman for VeriFone, didn’t
immediately return a request for comment. Representatives for
Fujitsu couldn’t immediately be reached outside of regular
business hours in  Tokyo , where the company is based.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  