-- MAN SE CEO Calls VW Offer Below Market Value Appropriate
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-06-06T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/volkswagen-s-man-se-plans-cost-cuts-amid-fragile-europe-economy.html
MAN SE (MAN)  Chief Executive Officer Georg Pachta-Reyhofen said an offer from  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  to purchase the
rest of the German truckmaker below the current market value is
fair given the poor economic conditions in  Europe .  “MAN SE considers the current valuation to be relevant and
appropriate,” Pachta-Reyhofen said in a speech at the Munich-based company’s shareholders meeting yesterday. “The prospects
for the MAN group in 2013 have been affected by the decline in
economic growth expectations.”  Volkswagen gained shareholder approval at the meeting for a
profit transfer and domination agreement, which eliminates the
need for arm’s length negotiations between the companies and
gives the carmaker access to MAN’s cash. The vote was never in
doubt because VW’s voting stake of just over 75 percent gave it
sufficient muscle to push through the plan.  VW, which is required under German law as part of the
agreement to offer to buy out minority owners, is proposing
purchasing the truckmaker’s remaining stock for 80.89 euros
($107.09) a share. Investors who don’t accept the cash deal will
receive an annual dividend of 3.07 euros per share.  Ferdinand Piech , supervisory board chairman at VW and MAN,
said yesterday he expects a long legal dispute with minority
shareholders, who may file suits seeking a higher price for
MAN’s stock.  Shares Drop  “We’ll see each other in front of a court for a long time
-- that’s what I assume,” Piech said after several lawyers,
including Dusseldorf-based Peter Dreier from law firm Dreier
Riedel Rechtsanwaelte, raised doubts over MAN’s valuation.  MAN shares  dropped  4 cents, or 0.1 percent, to 84.17 euros
as of the close of trading in  Frankfurt  yesterday. The stock has
gained 4.2 percent this year, valuing the German manufacturer at
12.4 billion euros.  Closer cooperation is crucial to VW’s effort to jump start
a stalled seven-year effort to forge Europe’s biggest truckmaker
comprising MAN,  Sweden ’s  Scania AB (SCVB)  and its own commercial
vehicles unit. Slumping demand for trucks in Europe, MAN’s
largest sales region, and ill-fated business decisions by the
truck manufacturer have added urgency to VW’s efforts.  MAN on Tuesday forecast its return on sales will fall
“significantly” this year because of higher charges related to
a power-plant deal, “substantial” tax risks and weaker after-sales business for its turbo and diesel unit. In the first
quarter, MAN reported an operating loss of 82 million euros.
Pachta-Reyhofen said yesterday he saw no reason to spin off the
power engineering unit.  Era’s End  “The era of a proud MAN is coming to an end,” Daniela Bergdolt, a representative of the DSW shareholder organization,
said in a speech. MAN’s weak results and profit warning were
aimed at keeping the company’s valuation low to avoid a higher
offer, she said. “You should be ashamed.”  VW has been seeking a heavy-truck alliance since buying an
MAN stake in 2006, a move that thwarted MAN’s own effort to take
over Scania, which VW partly owned. VW gained a controlling
stake in Scania in 2008. MAN and Scania will remain separate
brands, Pachta-Reyhofen said.  “VW’s approach seems to be sensitive to national/corporate
identities – so I think we’re playing the long game on this,”
 Max Warburton , a Singapore-based analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein, said in an e-mail. “Only when they re-tool and have
genuinely common chassis and engines can we expect big savings.
That is still quite a few years away.”  Demand for trucks over 3.5 tons in the European Union
tumbled 14 percent in the first four months of 2013, according
to industry association ACEA. MAN said yesterday it sees no
signs of a significant economic recovery in 2013 and will
continue to reduce costs in production, sales, administration
and development. The company may also reduce work hours at
plants in the second half because of the weak market, the CEO
said.  “The market environment in Europe is difficult and will
remain difficult in 2013,” Bernd Heid, a Cologne, Germany-based
partner at McKinsey & Co, said in a telephone interview. “We
anticipate a recovery in 2014 at the earliest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  