-- Vossloh Said to Weigh Transport Sale as Chinese Circle
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i ,   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2013-06-06T17:09:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/vossloh-said-to-weigh-transport-sale-as-chinese-circle.html
Vossloh AG (VOS) , the world’s largest maker
of rail fasteners, is weighing a sale of its transportation
division and has been approached by at least one potential
Chinese buyer, people familiar with the matter said.  The transportation unit, which may be valued at as much as
600 million euros ($787 million), has attracted interest from
Chinese rail companies such as China Railway Materials, said the
people, who asked not to be identified as talks are private.
Vossloh, a family-owned company based in Werdohl,  Germany , is
working with  UBS AG (UBSN)  to explore a possible disposal of the
locomotive maker, they said. No decision has been made.  “The transportation unit could be interesting for a
Chinese buyer because it offers entry into the European market
and is the region’s largest maker of diesel-electric locomotives
for shunting and mainline applications,” said Holger Schmidt, a
Frankfurt-based analyst at Equinet AG, who has an accumulate
rating on the stock. Shunting is switching a rail car from one
track to another.  Vossloh shares rose as much as 2.39 percent to 79.20 euros
on the news, the biggest increase since Feb. 18, before closing
at 76.75 euros in  Frankfurt .  The potential sale comes as the Vossloh family, which owns
more than 30 percent, competes for influence with German
billionaire Heinz Hermann Thiele, who has bought more than 25
percent of the company, leading to speculation he wants to
combine Vossloh with his brakemaker Knorr-Bremse AG. The
 transportation unit , with plants in  Valencia ,  Spain , and Kiel,
Germany, says it is  Europe ’s biggest manufacturer of modern
diesel locomotives, with the division accounting for 36 percent
of Vossloh’s  sales  in 2012.  No Thiele Synergies  The transportation division doesn’t offer synergies with
Vossloh’s rail infrastructure business, and has lower profit
margins, Schmidt said. There aren’t too many synergies between
the unit and Knorr-Bremse if Thiele gains control of the company
and oversees a merger, he said.  Vossloh shares have gained 16 percent in the past 12
months, buoyed by takeover speculation and rising sales, valuing
the company at 1 billion euros.  The Vossloh family is concerned about Thiele’s actions,
Handelsblatt reported last month, citing an unidentified
spokesman. Thiele was named chairman of the supervisory board on
June 5, according to the company.  Thiele’s push to become chairman reflected “a strategic
rather than a pure financial interest,” Commerzbank AG said on
May 31.  Chinese Interest  China CNR Corp. (601299)  and  CSR Corp. (601766) , the country’s largest train
makers, may also be interested in the transportation unit, two
people said.  Vossloh doesn’t comment on “rumors and speculation,” a
spokesman for the company said. Shao Renqiang, secretary of CSR,
didn’t return calls seeking comment and China CNR said in an e-mail that is has no information regarding Vossloh. An outside
spokesman for China Railway Materials declined to comment.  The Vossloh transportation unit, which also builds trams
and suburban trains, reported a 28 percent increase in 2012
earnings before interest and tax to 35.5 million euros, on sales
of 451.1 million euros, according to a  presentation  in March.  The larger rail infrastructure unit, which builds parts
that fasten train tracks to the ground, posted sales of 792.4
million euros and Ebit of 81.7 million euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in  Hong Kong  at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  