-- Why Obama Keeps Losing at the Supreme Court
-- B y   I l y a   S h a p i r o
-- 2013-06-06T22:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/why-obama-keeps-losing-at-the-supreme-court.html
In cases before the Supreme Court
last year, President  Barack Obama ’s Justice Department relied on
 outlandish  legal theories that pushed a constitutional
interpretation of extreme federal power. That posture led to
unanimous losses in three very different areas of law: religious
liberty (Hosanna-Tabor Church v. EEOC), criminal procedure (U.S.
v. Jones) and property rights (Sackett v. EPA).  A year later, as the Court prepares to rule on affirmative
action, the Voting Rights Act and gay marriage, the
administration’s track record hasn’t improved. Notwithstanding
the technical win on the health-care law, which was only
achieved thanks to Chief Justice  John Roberts ’s controversial
decision to rewrite it, the government has continued to suffer
unanimous defeats. Not all its cases are losers, to be sure, but
this administration’s pursuit of expansive authority tends to
lose big.  Consider another major case from the 2011-12 term:  Arizona 
v. U.S.  The conventional narrative is that the  Supreme Court 
smacked down a perniciously anti-immigrant Arizona law that gave
state police more power to enforce immigration laws. That
interpretation simply isn’t correct. Only four sections of the
law reached the Supreme Court -- most of its provisions weren’t
even challenged -- and the U.S. won split decisions on three and
unanimously lost the fourth.  Immigration Powers  The three splits involved complicated statutory
interpretation regarding pre-emption of state law by federal
law. In the ruling on the fourth, however,not a single justice
accepted the government’s theory that mere federal enforcement
priorities -- as opposed to laws or regulations -- trumped state
law.  The government argued that discretionary decisions not to
enforce certain federal laws overrode parallel state laws that
enforced those same laws. The unanimous Supreme Court rejected
that breathtaking claim of “pre-emption by executive whim.”  In the current term, another trio of cases highlighted the
government’s overbroad assertions of power.  First, in Arkansas Fish & Game Commission v. U.S., the
government tried to take property away from citizens without
paying just compensation. It claimed that the  Army Corps  of
Engineers’ periodic flooding of a wildlife preserve, causing
severe damage, didn’t meet the criteria for compensation under
the Fifth Amendment’s Takings Clause. Even though the Supreme
Court has required the government to compensate property owners
for temporary physical invasions and permanent flooding, the
government argued that it could freely engage in temporary
flooding.  The Supreme Court unanimously ruled for the property owners
in an opinion by Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg , not a noted
conservative. “No decision of this Court authorizes a blanket
temporary-flooding exception to our Takings Clause
jurisprudence,” she wrote, “and we decline to create such an
exception in this case.”  Second, in Gabelli v. Securities & Exchange Commission, the
government argued that it can prosecute people regardless of any
statutes of limitations. Over time, evidence can be corrupted or
disappear, memories fade and companies dispose of records. The
government, with all its investigative tools, has to bring
charges within a reasonable time so that the justice system can
operate effectively.  In the case, the SEC sued mutual-fund managers for alleged
fraudulent conduct that ceased more than five years earlier. Its
lawyers argued that the standard statute of limitations only
took effect once the government discovered the claimed wrong-doing.  Discovery Rule  The Supreme Court ruled 9-0 that the  Justice Department ’s
reliance on the discovery rule was misplaced because that
exception only applies to individual plaintiffs seeking
recompense, not to the government bringing enforcement actions
for civil penalties.  “Given the lack of textual, historical, or equitable
reasons to graft a discovery rule onto the statute of
limitations of (the relevant law), we decline to do so.”  Finally, in  PPL Corp. v. Commissioner of Internal Revenue ,
the government tried to impose double taxation on a company that
had paid a windfall tax in the U.K. The government argued that
the Internal Revenue Code’s foreign-income-tax credit wasn’t
available to the company because the U.K. statute considered the
tax to be on profit rather than income. That contrary theory had
already been rejected by lower courts in another case, but the
government insisted on presenting it again.  Two weeks ago, the Supreme Court rejected the government’s
tortured logic on the grounds that what matters isn’t a foreign
government’s characterization of a tax but how the tax applies
and whether it would be an income tax if enacted in the U.S.  These cases have nothing in common, other than the
government’s view that federal power is virtually unlimited:
Citizens must subsume their liberty to whatever the experts in a
given field determine the best or most useful policy to be.  If the government can’t get even one of the liberal
justices to agree with it on any of these unrelated cases, it
should realize there’s something seriously wrong with its
constitutional vision.  (Ilya Shapiro is a senior fellow in constitutional studies
at the  Cato Institute  and editor-in-chief of the Cato Supreme
Court Review.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ilya Shapiro at  IShapiro@cato.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 