-- N.Y. Speaker Silver Sued With Ex-Lawmaker by Two Women
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-06-07T17:16:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/women-sue-former-ny-assemblyman-lopez-and-speaker-silver.html
Two women who were staff employees
for former New York Assemblyman Vito Lopez alleged in lawsuits
that he sexually harassed them and they accused Assembly Speaker
Sheldon Silver of failing to investigate their complaints.  Victoria Burhans, 27, and Chloe Rivera, 25, filed the
sexual discrimination and harassment lawsuits yesterday in
federal and state courts in Manhattan. Both said Lopez subjected
them to a hostile work environment, made numerous unwanted
sexual advances toward them and made “incessant” comments
about their bodies, clothing and appearance.  Lopez, a Democrat who had represented the 53rd District in
 Brooklyn , New York, since 1985, resigned on May 20. The women
said in their complaints that Silver, as speaker, was required
to promulgate a sexual harassment policy prohibiting such
behavior by elected officials yet failed to do so.  “Lopez would not have been able to abuse plaintiffs
without the assistance of the speaker of the Assembly, Sheldon
Silver,” Burhans and Rivera said in the federal complaint. “As
a result of Silver’s complete failure to meet his obligations as
the most senior official in the Assembly, Lopez continued his
deplorable conduct.”  Silver and Lopez are defendants in the federal case, while
the Assembly is the only defendant in the state case, which
alleges violations of the  New York  State Human Rights Law.  Silver’s Response  “We will review the complaint when we receive it,” Mike
Whyland, a spokesman for Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement responding to the federal
lawsuit.  Gerald Lefcourt, a lawyer for Lopez, didn’t return voice-mail messages left at his office yesterday and today seeking
comment on the complaints.  Last month Daniel Donovan, the Staten Island district
attorney, said in a seven-page report that he wouldn’t file
criminal charges against Lopez.  Donovan, a Republican, was appointed special prosecutor in
the investigation, which coincided with a similar probe by the
state ethics commission. Both began in September after Lopez was
stripped of his committee chairmanship and Silver said the
Assembly had secretly settled harassment claims with two female
employees for $103,000.  Burhans and Rivera allege that the confidential settlement
with the two women helped cover up Lopez’s behavior, saying,
“Silver was more concerned about avoiding adverse media
attention than he was about protecting employees of the Assembly
from sexual harassment.”  The cases are Burhans v. Lopez, 12-cv-03870, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ); and Burhans v.
the Assembly of the State of New York, 155232/2013, New York
State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  