-- Woolworths Leads Retail Slump on Inflation: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2013-06-06T13:35:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/woolworths-leads-retail-slump-on-inflation-johannesburg-mover.html
Woolworths Holdings Ltd. (WHL)  led the
biggest two-day drop in South African retail stocks in more than
four months as inflationary risks hurt the outlook for consumer
spending.  The 11-company FTSE/JSE Africa General Retailers Index fell
as much as 3.8 percent to 58,535.64, bringing its drop in the
last two days to 5.8 percent, the most since Jan. 31. The
measure traded 3.3 percent down at 3:32 p.m. in Johannesburg.
Woolworths, a food and clothing retailer, fell 5.5 percent.  “Investors are skeptical on the consumer outlook and lofty
price-to-earnings, but some shares are just taking everything
else down with them,”  David Shapiro , a director at
Johannesburg-based Sasfin Securities, said by phone. “It’s like
 hurricane season  out there and everything is being blown
about.”  The rand’s 15 percent slump against the dollar this year,
the worst of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg, is adding
to pressure on inflation, which at 5.9 percent was unchanged for
a third month in April. The South African Reserve Bank forecasts
inflation will peak at an average of 6.1 percent in the third
quarter.  Edcon Holdings Pty Ltd., a clothing retailer owned by
Boston-based Bain Capital Partners LLC, and Adcock Ingram
Holdings Ltd., the South African maker of Panado painkillers and
Corenza cold medicine, this week warned that inflation and
unemployment in the country will probably weigh on  consumer
spending .  Adcock fell 1.7 percent.  Mr Price Group Ltd. (MPC) , a clothing,
furniture and linen retailer, fell 4.1 percent, and clothing
vendor The Foschini Group Ltd. dropped 2.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  