-- World Trade Center Developer Plans China Expansion
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-06T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/world-trade-center-developer-plans-china-expansion.html
Larry Silverstein , redeveloper of
towers at  New York ’s World Trade Center site, said he will
expand investment in  China  and enter  Israel  for the first time
to capture rising demand from wealth built on natural resources.  The company currently is focused on building mixed-used
development including office, residential and retail properties
in the Qianhai district of China’s southern city of Shenzhen,
the chairman of New York-based Silverstein Properties Inc. said.
In Israel, the developer is focused on hotel and residential
properties, because of the country’s growing economy and oil and
gas reserves, he said, without elaborating.  Silverstein, after more than five decades of investing
almost entirely in New York City real estate, in 2011 made his
first foray outside the U.S. in  Poland , one of  Europe ’s most in-demand property markets. He joins non-Chinese developers
including Tishman Speyer Properties LP in venturing out into the
world’s second-largest economy to capture growing demand.  “My view is that these countries -- U.S., China, Israel
and Poland -- are where our future is going to be certainly in
the next five years, or probably longer,” Silverstein, 82, said
in an interview in Shanghai yesterday. “Because I’m so focused
on the best in terms of quality, there’s no time for anything
that’s secondary.”  Financial Hub  Qianhai is a 15-square-kilometer (5.8-square-mile) zone on
the west side of Shenzhen,  Guangdong province , that the Chinese
government is seeking to develop into a financial-service hub.
Companies in the area will be encouraged to sell yuan-denominated bonds in  Hong Kong  and to experiment with cross-border loans in the currency, the National Development and
Reform Commission said last year.  The area, expected to host financial and services
companies, was created by China’s State Council in 2010 and has
laws that model Hong Kong-style administrative structures.  Among other places in China, Silverstein is also looking at
opportunities in Beijing and Shanghai, where it expects to build
communities similar to the World Trade Center neighborhood, he
said, declining to elaborate on the amount of the investment.  “There’s enough opportunity in these three cities,”
Silverstein said.  Polish Venture  Silverstein teamed with Polish billionaire Jan Kulczyk on a
500 million-euro ($659 million) venture to buy and develop
properties, beginning in Kulczyk’s home country. They made their
first purchase, an eight-story Warsaw office building, in August
2011, and are working on plans to add towers to the Polish
capital’s skyline.  The “long-term dynamics” of China will create “enormous
opportunities” in the country’s real estate market,  Rob Speyer ,
president and co-chief executive officer of Tishman Speyer, the
owner of New York’s Rockefeller Center, said in an interview in
Shanghai yesterday.  New York-based Tishman has developments in four Chinese
cities: Shanghai, nearby Suzhou, the western city of Chengdu and
Tianjin in the north.  Silverstein has $10 billion of development in the pipeline,
including building a Four Seasons hotel at Walt Disney World
Resort in  Orlando ,  Florida , according to the company.  ‘Very Confident’  Silverstein has rights to develop three of the four towers
planned for the 16-acre (6.5-hectare) site where the original
World Trade Center stood before the 2001 terrorist attacks.  Silverstein said he is “very confident” about filling up
the space that will allow him to build 3 World Trade Center to
its full 80 stories.  “As soon as possible, because I’m 82,” Silverstein said
when asked when he expects to fill the space. “I need to move
this along. I want to enjoy the fruits of all these efforts. No
time for green bananas.”  He declined to disclose potential tenants.  Silverstein needs to fill at least 400,000 square feet
(37,000 square meters) at the tower, which is slated to have 2.8
million square feet, before the  Port Authority  of New York and
 New Jersey  will help him finance the project.  Group M, a division of WPP Plc, the world’s largest
advertising company, and law firm White & Case LLP have sent
statements saying they are interested in taking as much as 1.1
million square feet combined at 3 World Trade Center, two people
with knowledge of the negotiations told  Bloomberg News  in
December.  One World Trade Center -- being built by the Port
Authority, the site’s owner, in partnership with developer
Douglas Durst -- topped out last month at 1,776 feet, making it
the tallest building in the western hemisphere.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in  Shanghai  at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  