-- WPP CEO Sees Sales Up to $4 Million in 2014 in Euphoric Myanmar
-- B y   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t   a n d   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-06-06T17:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/wpp-ceo-sees-sales-up-to-4-million-in-2014-in-euphoric-myanmar.html
WPP Plc (WPP)  could see as much as $4
million in revenue from Myanmar next year as it opens offices
for some of the world’s most prestigious ad agencies there,
Chief Executive Officer Martin Sorrell said today.  WPP agencies including Young & Rubicam, TNS and Millward
Brown are starting businesses in the country, Sorrell said today
in an interview at the  World Economic Forum  on East Asia in Nay
Pyi Taw, Myanmar.  Myanmar is like  Vietnam  in the early 1990s as “people are
very euphoric and optimistic,” Sorrell said. Still, with half
the population under 30 and most very poor, its growth rate of
“6.5 percent has to kick in for a number of years for this to
be really meaningful.”  WPP, the world’s largest advertising company, has been
expanding in fast-growing markets such as China and Brazil to
counter slower growth in Europe and North America. Sorrell said
his company, which gets about a third of revenue from high-growth markets, will do “a little bit better” than the 3
percent revenue growth it forecast in April.  “The U.S. feels better, Western Europe maybe, and it’s a
little bit better in Spain and certainly in the U.K.,” he said.
Asia is stronger than Europe and the U.S., WPP’s largest market,
he said. Argentina,  Brazil , South Africa and  Thailand  are among
the fastest-growing countries, Sorrell said in April.  The London-based company in April said it’s targeting an
operating margin improvement of 0.5 points for 2013. The company
plans to spend 300 million pounds to 400 million pounds on
acquisitions this year, mostly on small and medium-sized
companies, according to Sorrell. It struck a partnership today
with Twitter Inc. to get data from the microblogging site to
build more efficient ad campaigns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in  London  at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 