-- WTI Crude Specifications to Change at End of the Year
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-06-06T22:06:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/wti-crude-specifications-to-change-at-end-of-the-year.html
West Texas Intermediate crude
specifications will change as early as the end of 2013 to ensure
the quality of the oil in the world’s most actively traded
energy contract, according to  CME Group Inc. (CME)   The Crude Oil Quality Association, an industry group,
recommended adjustments to the light, sweet crude benchmark in
2010 that will form the basis of the move, Damon Leavell, a CME
spokesman in  New York , said by phone today. CME plans to add to
the contract requirements this year or next, he said. The
association called for new guidelines on nickel, vanadium,
micro-carbon residue, acid and distillation yields.  The  contract modifications  come amid growing concern that a
boom in North American shale-oil production may being changing
the characteristics of crude supplies at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the
delivery point for the WTI contract. Output from places such as
North Dakota’s Bakken formation helped drive  stockpiles  at
Cushing to a record high earlier this year.  “Things have changed, and we now believe having more
specifications are important,” Dennis Sutton, feedstock quality
manager for  Marathon Petroleum Corp. (MPC)  and a member of the quality
association, said today in  Seattle  at a conference organized by
the group.  The association began developing a proposal for additional
WTI requirements around 2006 to address refiners’ concerns that
foreign oil delivered on the Seaway pipeline, which was then
flowing north from the U.S. Gulf Coast to Cushing, could
compromise the quality of WTI crude.  Seaway Reversal  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  and  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  reversed
Seaway’s flow last year to help alleviate the glut of oil at
Cushing by transporting it to Gulf Coast refiners.  “Now that it’s reversed, you’re not seeing those foreign
crudes blended from the line, but now you’ve got a lot of shale
production,” Sutton said. “The traditional contract
specifications of gravity and sulfur are no longer adequate to
define the crude from a refiners’ standpoint.”  While CME hopes to change the WTI contract this year, the
effort may be pushed into 2014, Leavell said. The company is
still asking market participants for feedback on the proposed
requirements, he said.  Sutton said during the conference today that at least one
member of the association has been told by CME that changes
could be announced within a few months and may become effective
in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  