-- Xiaomi to Double Sales as Low-Cost Phones Chase Apple
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-06T18:30:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/xiaomi-doubling-sales-as-low-cost-phones-chase-apple-in-china.html
Xiaomi Corp., the three-year-old
Chinese smartphone vendor, will double handset sales this year
as it tries to gain ground on  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930)  in the world’s biggest market.  The Beijing-based company will sell 15 million handsets
this year, Chief Executive Officer Lei Jun told reporters
yesterday in Chengdu, where he’s attending the Fortune Global
Forum. Lei is a co-founder of Xiaomi and also chairman of
software developer  Kingsoft Corp. (3888)   Xiaomi sold 7.2 million handsets last year, making it one
of the fastest-growing makers in China, with smartphones selling
for half the price of models from Apple and Samsung, the world’s
largest vendors. Xiaomi’s smartphone share in China was 2.6
percent in the first quarter, compared with Samsung’s 17.7
percent and iPhone’s 9.7 percent, according to Gartner Inc.  “Although I won’t say it’s impossible for them to pass
Apple in  China , it’s unlikely to be this year,” said Sandy Shen, a Shanghai-based analyst with Gartner. “To keep up the
growth, they need to reach out to other segments above and
below, where there is strong competition from local and
international vendors.”  Huawei, Lenovo  Xiaomi doesn’t have to be big, Lei said, adding that he’d
be happy with “a small and beautiful company.”  “I don’t care to surpass Apple, I never thought about
surpassing anyone,” Lei said. “I care more about quality of
the product and user experience. We rarely look at competitors
and what they do.”  To achieve greater market share, Xiaomi needs to decide
whether it will raise more money to cater to the mass market or
develop higher quality technology to become a premium brand,
said  Duncan Clark , the Beijing-based chairman of BDA China Ltd.,
which advises technology companies.  “They have some kind of guerrilla marketing appeal, I just
don’t think it’s enough to get them where they want to be,”
Clark said.  Huawei Technologies Co. and  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  also have
products targeting medium-price range customers in China, and
the companies have a better advantage in terms of procurement
and keeping costs low, Clark said. China is Apple’s second-largest market after the U.S.  China last year had more than 800 new types of mobile
phones, and handset shipments reached 362 million units,
according to researcher International Data Corp. Global handset
sales grew 11 percent last year to $358 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Temasek Investment  Xiaomi completed a third round of fundraising of $216
million in June 2012, giving it a valuation at that time of $4
billion. It previously raised $131 million in two rounds from
investors including  Singapore ’s Temasek Holdings Pte and Qiming
Venture Partners.  Xiaomi sells phones through its online platform at
 xiaomi.com  and through contracts with carriers  China Unicom Hong
Kong Ltd. (762)  and  China Telecom Corp. (728)  About 70 percent of its sales
are made online.  Lei declined to comment on whether the phones would be
offered through  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the world’s largest carrier.  “Xiaomi’s greatest concern isn’t revenue and profit,” Lei
said. “Our most important concern is whether consumers will
rave about it, and whether existing customers will recommend the
products to friends.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net ;
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  