-- Myanmar as Economic Miracle Hinges on Natural Gas Bounty: Energy
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-06-07T08:25:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/myanmar-as-economic-miracle-hinges-on-natural-gas-bounty-energy.html
Myanmar’s opening to foreign
investment has been compared to the fall of the Berlin Wall and
the start of an economic growth story to emulate  Vietnam . How
those views pan out will be largely decided by natural gas.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL)  and  Oil India
Ltd. (OINL)  are among 59 global energy companies lining up for a share
of Myanmar’s estimated $75 billion bounty of the fuel, according
to the country’s energy ministry. While oil and gas have been
pumped for decades, investment largely dried up during almost
five decades of military rule that ended in 2012.  Wedged between energy-hungry  China  and India, Myanmar needs
more investment to explore its gas potential. Energy and
industries such as agriculture need a combined $320 billion
through 2030 to help the economy achieve 8 percent annual growth,
a report last week by McKinsey Global Institute forecast.  “People see Myanmar as a frontier market,” Melinda Tun, a
senior associate at law firm Baker & McKenzie, said in a June 4
phone interview in Sydney. “If you can get a first-mover
advantage you could be well set for years to come. It sits
between the two most populous economies in the world.”  The nation’s transition to democracy in 2012 prompted the
U.S. to ease sanctions last May. Concerns about government
transparency and ethnic violence persist among investors in
Myanmar, which is hosting a three-day  World Economic Forum  on
East Asia that concludes today.  ‘Low-Hanging Fruit’  Heads of state were called to today’s forum, as well as
executives from companies including  General Electric Co. (GE) ,
Unilever NV and WPP Plc, the world’s largest advertising company.  France ’s largest oil producer  Total SA (FP) , Italy’s biggest oil
company  Eni SpA (ENI)  and India’s leading explorer  Oil & Natural Gas
Corp. (ONGC)   have qualified to explore onshore fields. Investors
seeking 30 offshore blocks in Myanmar, where gas is the biggest
revenue earner, must lodge their statements of interest by June
14, the government said in April.  “A lot of low-hanging fruit hasn’t been caught,” Olivia
Boyd, a Beijing-based energy analyst at IHS Global Insight, said
by phone. “A lot of prospective areas are unexplored.”  Korea Gas Corp. (036460) , the world’s biggest LNG buyer,  PTT
Exploration & Production Pcl (PTTEP) ,  Thailand ’s biggest publicly traded
exploration company, and  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. have
also qualified to bid for the onshore blocks, according to
Myanmar’s energy ministry.  Myanmar Potential  Woodside,  Australia ’s second-largest oil and gas producer,
is evaluating bids on offshore blocks after reaching two
exploration deals last year in the country, Chief Executive
Officer Peter Coleman said in a May 28 interview in Brisbane.  Myanmar’s reserves are “quite modest,” Coleman said in an
interview yesterday at the economic forum. “This is all about
potential. We are talking about potential in deep waters
offshore of Myanmar. It’s a story about the future of Myanmar.
It’s not a story about what Myanmar has done.”  Oil  India , that nation’s second-biggest state explorer,
plans to bid for onshore fields in Myanmar, T.K. Ananth Kumar,
finance director at the company, said in a June 5 interview.  PTT Pcl, the parent company of PTTEP, is one of the largest
investors in Myanmar and is “planning a lot more” in the
country, CEO Pailin Chuchottaworn told Bloomberg Television in
an interview yesterday at the forum.  “There’s a lot of energy demand in this country given the
energy shortage problem here,” he said.  Myanmar has 7.8 trillion cubic feet of proven natural gas
reserves, according to BP Plc data, worth about $75 billion at
benchmark prices for gas futures traded in the U.K.  Unknown Potential  The U.S. Energy Information Administration estimates the
country, also known as  Burma , had 10 trillion cubic feet of
proven reserves and produced 421 billion cubic feet of the fuel
in 2011. The reserves are 1.9 percent of known deposits in the
Asia Pacific, according to the EIA.  “The potential gas reserves could be much bigger than what
is known,” Kumar said. “In the long-term, we need to be in
Myanmar. It’s one of the last Asian countries opening up.”  Sanctions, a lack of technical capacity, opaque regulatory
policy, and insufficient investment by foreign firms have
significantly impeded the country’s efforts to realize its oil
and gas production potential, the EIA said on its website.  Human Rights Watch has accused Myanmar’s government of
destroying mosques, conducting mass arrests, blocking aid to
displaced Muslims and dumping bodies in mass graves since
sectarian violence began last June.  ‘Deep Concern’  While U.S. President  Barack Obama  praised Myanmar’s
progress toward democracy after a meeting with President Thein Sein on May 20 at the White House, he expressed “deep concern”
about violence against ethnic and religious minorities and said
abuse of human rights needs to stop.  Ranked No. 172 of 176 nations in Transparency
International’s 2012  corruption index , Thein Sein’s government
might be challenged to find a balance between attracting capital
and limiting a flood of money from mostly benefiting an elite.  The government seems to be taking steps to provide
transparency in Myanmar’s oil and gas sector and foreign
investors need that or they’ll come under fire for their
investments in the country, Tun of Baker & McKenzie said. Thein
Sein signed a foreign investment bill in November to spur
overseas companies to spend more.  First Export  The country exported its first barrel of oil in 1853. It
now has 16 foreign companies working on 17 onshore exploration
blocks and 15 exploring or producing in 20 offshore blocks, all
in partnership with the state-owned Myanmar Oil and Gas
Enterprise, the World Economic Forum said in a  report  this month.  Energy and mining together is the fourth-biggest
contributor to Myanmar’s gross domestic product, with
agriculture being the largest at $21.2 billion, according to
McKinsey.  Infrastructure spending was second at $10.5 billion and
manufacturing third with $9.8 billion. The energy and mining
sector is projected to expand to $21.7 billion by 2030 from $8
billion in 2010, according to the report.  Myanmar’s economy may grow 6.75 percent this fiscal year,
driven by natural gas sales and investment, according to the
International Monetary Fund. GDP in the year that ended March 31
expanded an estimated 6.5 percent, the IMF said last month.  Australian explorer Roc Oil Co., which qualified for the
onshore bidding round in Myanmar, said in February that it
believes the country has “the potential for significant
discoveries and transformational growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  