-- Yastrzemski’s Grandson Highlights Baseball Draft’s Family Ties
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-06-06T13:57:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/yastrzemski-s-grandson-highlights-baseball-draft-s-family-ties.html
Berra, Biggio, Clemens, Pettitte and
Yastrzemski are among the names that may be called this week at
 Major League Baseball ’s first-year player draft, where the
sport’s bloodlines run deep.  A year after the sons of Hall of Fame infielder Cal Ripken Jr. and former Cy Young Award winner Orel Hershiser were among
the 1,238 players drafted over 40 rounds, more relatives of
current or ex-All Stars are draft eligible. This year’s three-day draft begins tonight, with the  Houston Astros  holding the
No. 1 pick for the second year in a row.  Mike Yastrzemski is among the most notable names, the
grandson of Hall of Fame outfielder Carl Yastrzemski, who won
three batting titles, the 1967 American League Most Valuable
Player award and was selected as an All-Star 18 times with the
Boston  Red Sox  from 1961 to 1983. The younger Yastrzemski, also
an outfielder, was drafted in the 30th round by the Seattle
Mariners a year ago and passed up a $300,000 signing bonus to
return to Vanderbilt University for his senior season.  Mike Yastrzemski, 22, hit .322 while starting all 64 games
this season for the Commodores, the No. 2 seed in college
baseball’s national tournament, with three home runs, 43 runs
batted in and 19 stolen bases.  He will probably be drafted higher than he was a year ago,
though he’s not ranked among the  top 100 draft-eligible players 
by MLB.com. For the second straight year, the top-ranked player
is Stanford University pitcher Mark Appel, who was drafted
eighth last year and returned to school for his senior season
after failing to agree on a contract with the Pittsburgh
Pirates.  Pirates’ Picks  The Pirates have two of the  top 14 picks  in the draft after
being unable to sign Appel. The Chicago Cubs have the second
pick, followed by the Colorado Rockies, Minnesota Twins,
 Cleveland Indians ,  Miami Marlins , Red Sox, Kansas City Royals,
Pirates and Toronto Blue Jays.  The New York Mets have the 11th pick tonight and the  New
York Yankees  have picks 26, 32 and 33, with the final two coming
as compensation for losing  Nick Swisher  and  Rafael Soriano 
during the offseason.  The Yankees also have family ties in the draft. Left-hander
 Andy Pettitte ’s son Josh, a high school pitcher from Deer Park,
Texas, may be among those taken after throwing two no-hitters
during his senior season.  Cavan Biggio, Kacy Clemens, Torii Hunter Jr., Manny Ramirez
Jr., Preston Palmeiro and Dalton Saberhagen are other sons of
major-leaguers eligible for the draft out of high school.  Famous Fathers  Craig Biggio, a former infielder for the Astros, is one of
28 players in the sport’s history to reach the 3,000-hit
milestone, while  Roger Clemens  won a record seven Cy Young
Awards as the best pitcher in his league before being passed
over in Hall of Fame voting this year because of links to
performance-enhancing drugs.  Rafael Palmeiro , who failed a drug test, has been similarly
snubbed by Hall of Fame voters after hitting 569 home runs over
a 20-year major-league career, while Manny Ramirez hit 555
homers in 19 seasons. Torii Hunter, a nine-time Gold Glove
winner for his defense, is playing for the  Detroit Tigers  this
season, his 17th in the majors. Bret Saberhagen won two Cy Young
Awards over his 16-year career.  There are more-distant relatives of former All-Stars who
are draft-eligible, such as Cameron Berra, a first baseman from
Eastern Illinois University. Berra’s grandfather was a first
cousin of Yankees Hall of Fame catcher  Yogi Berra .  ‘It’s Cool’  “People see the name and ask me if I am related,” Berra,
who also plays football at Eastern Illinois, was quoted as
saying last month on the school’s website. “I don’t mind
getting asked, it’s something kind of cool. I like to have fun
with it.”  Ben Verlander, a junior outfielder from Old Dominion
University, is the younger brother of Tigers pitcher  Justin Verlander , a five-time All-Star who won the AL MVP and Cy Young
awards in 2011.  The younger Verlander hit a team-leading .367 with 11 home
runs and 37 RBI in 53 games this season. He may follow his big
brother’s steps into professional baseball.  “We were a baseball family and I grew up going to every
one of my brother’s games,” Ben Verlander said this year. “I
knew from a young age that I wanted to play baseball.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  