-- Yen Gains Most in 2 Years Versus Dollar as Traders Unwind Bets
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-06-06T18:57:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/yen-gains-most-in-2-years-versus-dollar-as-traders-unwind-bets.html
Widespread weakness in the dollar
prompted investors to unwind bearish bets on the yen, triggering
dollar-yen stops and sending Japan’s currency to its biggest
gain in more than two years against the greenback.  The yen reached a seven-week high as it crossed a key level
at 98.85 before breaching channel support at 98.03, according to
 MacNeil Curry , chief rates and currencies technical strategist
at Bank of America Corp. The market was betting the dollar would
gain prior to the move, with futures traders last week
 increasing  their bets that the yen will weaken against it to the
most since July 2007.  “People are unwinding out of dollar-yen, and it’s been
exacerbated by the capitulation trade,” Curry, based in New
York, said in a telephone interview. “For the time being, the
strong uptrend that we’ve seen has run its course.”  The yen rallied 1.9 percent to 97.21 per dollar at 2:49
p.m. in New York and touched the strongest level since April 16.
It rose the most on an intraday basis since a 4.2 percent gain
on March 17, 2011.  Japan ’s currency added 0.8 percent to 128.72
per euro.  The yen has weakened 22 percent in the past year, the most
among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, amid efforts from Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe to secure a 2 percent rate of inflation. The Bank of
Japan pledged in April to double bond buying in an attempt to
drag the world’s third-biggest economy out of 15 years of
deflation.  “The weakness in dollar-yen, as the cross took out stops,
pushed a positioning clear-out that took place across the Group
of 10,” Brian Daingerfield, a currency strategist at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , said in a telephone interview. “The catalyst of
broad-based dollar weakness was dollar-yen breaking through some
important levels on the downside.” Stops are orders that a
triggered when prices reached pre-set levels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Cox at 
 pcox16@bloomberg.net  