-- Zimbabwean Vote in July Would Violate Constitution, Senator Says
-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2013-06-06T11:31:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-06/zimbabwean-vote-in-july-would-violate-constitution-senator-says.html
Zimbabwe  can’t hold general elections
by a July 31 deadline set by the  Supreme Court  without violating
the constitution, according to Senator David Coltart.  There isn’t enough time for the registration of voters that
ends July 9 and the nomination of candidates 30 days before a
vote as the constitution stiplulates, Coltart, a lawyer and
secretary for legal affairs in a faction of the Movement for
Democratic Change party, said today on his  website .  “The election cannot under any circumstances be held
lawfully and in compliance with the constitution before the 9th
August 2013,” he said.  Coltart made his statement as the 15-nation Southern
African Development Community prepares to discuss Zimbabwe’s
elections at a June 9 meeting in the Mozambican capital, Maputo.
President  Robert Mugabe  has repeatedly called for an early vote,
while both factions of the MDC have said the May 31 Supreme
Court ruling was unconstitutional and unfeasible.  The electoral commission yesterday described the voters’
roll as a “shambles,”  Newsday , based in the capital, Harare,
reported. The body said an election date must be at least 44
days after voter registration is completed.  Mugabe, 89, has ruled the southern African nation since its
independence from the U.K. more than three decades ago.  He shares power with the Prime Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai ’s
MDC and a smaller faction of the party led by  Welshman Ncube , a
law professor. The five-year power-sharing agreement was
brokered by SADC after it declared elections in 2008 void
because of violence mainly against MDC supporters.  NI AFRICA
NI AFRICAX
NI AME
NI EM
NI SADC
NI ZIMB   he  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  