-- Accused White House Shooter Ordered Held as Flight Risk, Community Danger
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2011-12-19T20:08:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/accused-white-house-shooter-ordered-held-as-flight-risk-community-danger.html
An Idaho man accused of shooting at
the White House in an attempt to assassinate President  Barack Obama  will remain in prison while a grand jury considers the
case against him.  U.S. Magistrate Judge John Facciola in  Washington  today
found the government had enough evidence to go forward with its
criminal case against Oscar Ramiro Ortega-Hernandez and that the
Idaho Falls man is a potential flight risk and a danger to the
community.  “Trying to take the life of the president of the  United
States ” is “one of the most serious crimes imaginable,”
Facciola said toward the end of a two-hour hearing.  Ortega-Hernandez, 21, is accused of firing a semi-automatic
rifle at the White House on Nov. 11 in an attempt to kill Obama.
He was arrested at a hotel near  Indiana ,  Pennsylvania , on Nov.
16 after a task force of federal and local law enforcement
officers searched for him.  Prosecutors said in court filings that Ortega-Hernandez
drove to Washington with an assault rifle and other weapons
after telling people in his home state that he intended to kill
the president.  Ortega-Hernandez fired shots from a street less than 800
yards from the White House just after 9 p.m. in Washington,
prosecutors said. Obama had left for a trip to Hawaii and  Asia .  The attempted assassination charge carries a maximum
penalty of life in prison. Prosecutors have 30 days to secure an
indictment of Ortega-Hernandez.  Target Scope  During today’s hearing, Michael Pinto, an FBI special
agent, testified that ballistic tests confirmed that two bullets
and one bullet jacket recovered from the grounds of the White
House were fired from the rifle found in Ortega-Hernandez’s car.
The semi-automatic assault rifle, a Romanian Cugir SA that is
similar to an AK-47, had a target scope mounted on it, according
to the FBI.  Pinto said there were five “impact points” from bullets
on the second floor of the White House and one of the bullets
was found in the window frame on the balcony.  Ortega-Hernandez’s fingerprints were the only ones found on
the magazines for the assault rifle, Pinto said.  Black Honda  Ortega-Hernandez sat silently in court today while Pinto
spent more than an hour describing the government’s evidence,
which include two witnesses to the shooting and one who saw a
person run from a Black Honda Accord that crashed several blocks
away moments after the shooting. The car was registered to
Ortega-Hernandez, Pinto said.  Four people, described by prosecutors as associates or
friends of Ortega-Hernandez, told investigators that Ortega-
Hernandez spoke about being a modern day  Jesus Christ . These
witnesses said Ortega-Hernandez referred to Obama as the devil,
who “needed to be taken care of,” according to Pinto. One
person told the FBI that Ortega-Hernandez said Obama was putting
chips in people in order to monitor them, Pinto said.  Others interviewed by the government include the person who
sold Ortega-Hernandez the rifle in March for $550 and another
who helped Ortega-Hernandez mount the scope, according to Pinto.  Prosecutors showed Facciola a picture of what they said was
Ortega-Hernandez riding a freight train from the Washington area
to Pennsylvania. The photograph shows the head of a bearded-man
with long hair on the top of a hopper car. Prosecutors said it
was taken in  West Virginia  on Nov. 14 by a former FBI
photographer who takes pictures of trains as a hobby. The train
was headed northwest from Washington, they said.  Yellow Truck  When Ortega-Hernandez was arrested on Nov. 16, he told
investigators that he had been carjacked outside a Popeye’s
Chicken restaurant the day of the shooting and denied ever
owning a firearm, according to prosecutors.  David Bos, a lawyer for Ortega-Hernandez, asked Pinto about
an eyewitness to the shooting who told police that it involved a
yellow truck and shots fired at another vehicle. Pinto said he
“glanced” at the jogger’s report and couldn’t remember any
details about it.  Bos, who called the government’s case “extraordinarily
weak,” noted that none of the government’s eyewitnesses
identified his client as the shooter or the person inside the
Honda.  “There is not a single witness on November 11 that
identified Mr. Ortega-Hernandez inside the car at the time of
the shooting,” Bos said during today’s hearing.  Last week, Facciola rejected the government’s request that
Ortega-Hernandez undergo a 30-day psychological exam, ruling
that he hasn’t seen “any evidence” to overrule an earlier
assessment that Ortega-Hernandez was mentally fit to go to
trial. Facciola said that prosecutors can file another request
for an exam if Ortega-Hernandez’s mental state changes.  The case is U.S. v. Ortega-Hernandez, 11-00883, U.S.
District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 