-- Madoff Controller Says She Faked Books, Didn’t Know of Theft
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2011-12-19T22:25:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/madoff-ex-controller-cotellessa-pitz-pleads-guilty-to-role-in-ponzi-scheme.html
Bernard Madoff ’s ex-controller,
Enrica Cotellessa-Pitz, said she didn’t know her former boss was
running a massive Ponzi scheme while she helped falsify the
firm’s accounting for almost a decade.  Cotellessa-Pitz, 53, pleaded guilty to four criminal counts
at a hearing in  Manhattan  federal court today, admitting she
created phony stock records, made false entries in the firm’s
general ledgers and filed untrue reports with regulators.  “Although I now know the crimes I committed helped to
cover up and perpetuate Bernard Madoff’s fraud, at the time I
did not know that Madoff and others were stealing investors’
money,” she told U.S District Judge Laura Taylor Swain at the
plea hearing.  Cotellessa-Pitz pleaded guilty to conspiracy, falsifying
books and records of a broker-dealer, falsifying books and
records of an  investment adviser  and making false filings with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. She faces as long
as 50 years in prison when she’s sentenced, Swain told he today.  She also faces forfeiture of $97.3 billion, Swain said.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Lisa Baroni told Swain that
Cotellessa-Pitz has been working with the government to unravel
the Madoff fraud for “quite a long time now.”  Free on Bond  Cotellessa-Pitz is to remain free on $2.5 million bond,
secured by $800,000 in cash or property and guaranteed by eight
co-signers. She has until Jan. 3 to meet the requirements. Her
sentencing is set for June 22.  Madoff, who pleaded guilty to fraud charges, is serving 150
years in prison for the largest  Ponzi scheme  in U.S. history.
Investors lost about $20 billion in principal, the trustee
liquidating Madoff’s business in  bankruptcy court  has said.  Irving Picard , the trustee, sued Cotellessa-Pitz and her
husband, Thomas Pitz, in 2010, seeking the return of money he
claimed they received from the fraud. The SEC filed a civil
complaint against her today.  Cotellessa-Pitz, who lives in Ozone Park, New York, was
hired in 1978 to work part-time for Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC, she said. She said she was promoted to
controller and began falsifying the firm’s books, under the
direction of Daniel Bonventre, the firm’s director of
operations, from about 1999 until the Madoff fraud became public
in December 2008.  Bonventre was charged in the case and pleaded not guilty.  Cotellessa-Pitz told Swain that, along with other Madoff
employees, she created fake documents under-reporting firm
profits to help Madoff with a 2004 state tax audit and a 2007
federal audit, she said.  The criminal case is U.S. v. O’Hara, 10-CR-228, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan). The
bankruptcy case is Picard v. Cotellessa-Pitz, 10-4213,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 