-- Maersk Names Skou to Run Container Line as Kolding Departs
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2011-12-19T09:53:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/maersk-names-skou-to-run-container-line-as-kolding-departs-1-.html
A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S  said Soeren Skou will take over as chief executive officer at its
unprofitable  Maersk Line  container-shipping unit as Eivind Kolding departs to run  Denmark ’s largest bank.  Skou, currently head of the company’s tanker division, will
take his new post on Jan. 16, the Copenhagen-based company said
today in a statement. Maersk said it will fill the vacant
tanker-unit CEO position internally.  Skou, 47, said today that he will focus on keeping costs
down and use the company’s size to offer better services than
competitors, some of whom will have to go out of business.
Maersk said Nov. 9 that the container unit, the world’s largest
by capacity and operator of about 500 vessels, will lose money
this year as freight rates fall after the industry industry
added too many ships in anticipation of an economic recovery.  “We will see consolidation and we will have restructuring
of the industry,” Skou said in a phone interview from
Copenhagen. “There’s quite a lot of overcapacity in the
market.”  Mediterranean Shipping Co. and CMA CGM SA, the world’s
second- and third-largest container lines, agreed on Dec. 1 to
share vessels on routes including to Asia-Northern Europe. MISC
Bhd.,  Southeast Asia ’s largest shipping line by market value,
said last month it will sell its 16 owned container vessels in
about six months as it exits unprofitable cargo-box operations.
Maersk Line probably won’t buy distressed assets, Skou said.  Stock Rises  Maersk advanced as much as 2 percent to 35,220 kroner and
was up 1.7 percent at 10:49 a.m. in Copenhagen. That pared the
stock’s decline this year to 30 percent.  Skou joined Maersk as a shipping trainee in 1983, according
to the company’s website. He has a graduate diploma in commerce
from the Copenhagen Business School and a Master of Business
Administration degree from the International Institute for
Management Development in Lausanne,  Switzerland . He became CEO
of the division which operates Maersk’s crude oil, product and
gas tankers in 2001.  Maersk Line, which transports about 16 percent of the
world’s manufactured goods by sea, posted a third-quarter net
loss of 1.58 billion kroner ($277 million) compared with profit
of 5.9 billion kroner a year earlier.  Kolding, who has been the sole CEO of Maersk Line since
2007, will take over as head of  Danske Bank A/S  on Feb. 15, the
lender said in a statement today.  Maersk, Denmark’s biggest company, owns about 23 percent of
Danske, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  