-- AIG Leasing Unit Pays Higher Yield Than S&P Rating on New Debt
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2011-12-19T21:18:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/aig-leasing-unit-plans-first-bonds-since-may-to-pay-debt-purchase-planes.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s
plane-leasing unit offered a higher yield than similarly rated
companies on its first bonds since May as it seeks to pay back
debt and finance aircraft purchases.  International Lease Finance Corp.,  rated  B1 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s , sold
$650 million of 8.625 percent, 10-year notes, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with the average 4.51
percent yield for debt on the lowest investment-grade tier of
BBB and 8.99 percent on bonds with B grades, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index data.  The cost to protect the world’s largest independent
aircraft lessor’s debt from default rose to the highest since
December 2009 in October after the bailed-out AIG said a month
earlier that it planned to sell more than 20 percent of Los
Angeles-based ILFC and divest most of the unit over time. That
has since declined as ILFC said it signed leases for all of its
2012 new aircraft deliveries and shows a “strong position in
high-growth  emerging markets ,” according to Gimme Credit LLC.  The unit’s planned initial public offering may be delayed
because of “difficult” market conditions, Gimme Credit analyst
 Kathleen Shanley  wrote in a note Nov. 30. “Wild swings in
equity prices are not exactly conducive to the pricing of an
IPO, particularly for a firm in the finance sector which will
need ongoing access to financial markets,” she wrote.  AMR Offering  The coupon on today’s bonds matches the highest rate for
investment-grade debt this year with that maturity, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. AMR Corp., operator of  American
Airlines , sold 10-year debt in September at that coupon, and
Forethought Financial Group Inc. issued bonds with that maturity
at the same rate in April, the data show.  The ILFC offering was increased from $500 million, said a
person with knowledge of the transaction, who declined to be
identified, citing lack of authorization to speak publicly.  Credit-default swaps on ILFC have declined to 697.8 basis
points today from as high as 931.9 basis points on Oct. 4,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting
$10 million of debt.  ILFC’s May bond offering included $1.25 billion of 6.25
percent debt due in May 2019 that priced to yield 308 basis
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  