-- Alan Shearer May Replace Blackburn Coach Kean, Mail Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2011-12-19T09:54:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/alan-shearer-may-replace-blackburn-coach-kean-mail-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Shearer ‘Front-Runner’  Former Blackburn striker Alan Shearer is the most-likely
candidate to replace  Steve Kean  as the Premier League team’s
coach, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Team owner Venky’s is deciding whether to fire Kean now or
hand him a final chance in tomorrow’s “basement battle” with
Bolton, according to the Mail.  The  Daily Mirror  said Graeme Souness could return as
Blackburn coach and former Chelsea manager  Avram Grant  is
another possible replacement for Kean.  Gaitan to United  Benfica’s Argentina midfielder Nicolas Gaitan is set to
join Manchester United at the end of the season for 35 million
euros ($45.6 million),  according to the Independent.   The 23-year-old has a 45 million-euro release clause in his
contract but United has refused to meet it, the newspaper said.
Benfica will have to pay about 15 percent of the fee to an
investment fund which part-owns the transfer fee rights, and 20
percent to Gaitan’s former club  Boca Juniors , the Independent
said.  QPR Target  Queens Park Rangers may sign Glasgow Rangers striker Nikica
Jelavic for 7 million pounds ($10.9 million) in the January
transfer window, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Sunderland coach Martin O’Neill also has Jelavic on a
short-list of potential acquisitions, the Mirror said.  Villa Midfielder  Aston Villa  plans to bid for 21-year-old Barnsley captain
Jacob Butterfield next month, the  Daily Mirror  reported, adding
the midfielder would cost about 2 million pounds.  According to  the Sun , Glasgow Rangers midfielder Steven Davis could return to Villa for the same fee, four years after
he left the Birmingham-based club.  Lennon Sidelined  Tottenham winger  Aaron Lennon  faces several weeks without
playing because of a hamstring injury, the  Daily Telegraph 
reported.  Spurs face an “anxious wait” over whether Gareth Bale,
 Jermain Defoe  and Ledley King will be ready for a game against
Chelsea on Dec. 22, the Telegraph said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  