-- Almost 1 in 3 U.S. Youths Arrested at Least Once by Age 23, Study Finds
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2011-12-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/almost-1-in-3-u-s-youths-arrested-at-least-once-by-age-23-study-finds.html
About 30 percent of Americans by age
23 have been arrested at least once for something other than a
traffic violation, increasing their chances of professional and
family strife, researchers say.  By age 18, about 16 percent to 27 percent of teenagers have
been picked up by police, according to a study released today in 
the journal  Pediatrics . The report is based on questionnaires of 
more than 7,300 young people conducted from 1997 to 2008.  Youth with arrest records have lower earnings, longer
periods of unemployment and a greater risk of family conflict
than those without, according to the study. The previous best
estimate of arrests for non-traffic offenses was done in 1965,
and showed that about 22 percent of U.S. adults had been
apprehended at least once by age 23.  “What we’re trying to do is heighten pediatricians’
awareness of this to have a broader discussion than they
otherwise would have,” said  Robert Brame , a criminologist at
the University of  North Carolina  at  Charlotte , and lead author
of the study.  Brame encouraged pediatricians to note that children who
are most at risk of  arrest  later as teenagers or young adults
are hyperactive, have difficulty concentrating, have poor
relationships with their parents, suffer from abuse or neglect,
or are bullied. It may be possible for doctors to intervene
early to prevent arrests, he said.  No Data  “Until now there simply was no contemporary national
prevalence estimate of the risk of a criminal arrest for
American youth,” the authors wrote. “This is in spite of the
fact that having an arrest record is known to be an important
risk marker for violence involvement, violent victimizations,
and an unhealthy and unsafe lifestyle.”  The increase in arrest rates is primarily in ages 19
through 22, and may reflect the delay in marriage and careers as
more young people seek higher education, increasing the length
of “adolescence,” Brame said. The increasing aggressiveness of
the criminal justice system in prosecuting drug offenses and
violent crime also may help account for the higher numbers, he
said.  The researchers used a nationally representative sample of
7,335 youth who participated in surveys beginning in 1997 as 12
to 16 year olds. The surveys continued through 2008 as
participants were asked a variety of questions about their
activities including whether they’d been arrested by police.
Researchers said they estimated the rate of those who didn’t
respond to the questions, accounting for the range in the arrest
rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  