-- Hang Ten Jumps 56% After Hong Kong Clothing Retailer Gets $340 Million Bid
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2011-12-20T09:39:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/hang-ten-gets-341-million-buyout-offer-from-private-li-fung-retailing.html
     Dec. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Hang Ten Group Holdings Ltd. (448) , the
Hong Kong-based clothing retailer with stores across east  Asia ,
climbed by a record after receiving a HK$2.65 billion ($340
million) buyout offer.  Hang Ten soared 56 percent, the biggest gain since listing
in 2003, to HK$2.65 at the close of trading in Hong Kong. The
benchmark  Hang Seng Index  rose 0.06 percent.  The offer by Li & Fung Retailing Ltd., which has opened
more than 100 Toys “R” Us stores in Asia, values the shares at
59 percent more than their closing price on Dec. 15, before a
trading halt. The deal would be the largest for a Hong Kong
apparel company, based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  Asian clothing and consumer brands have become acquisition
targets as the region’s shoppers grow more affluent. Apparel
companies were acquired in 34 deals valued at $1.3 billion in
 Hong Kong  in the past three years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The buyers paid an average premium of 22 percent.  “Hang Ten has retail networks in Greater  China  and South
east Asia which can help boost Li & Fung’s presence in the
region,” said Kenneth Li, an analyst at Cinda Securities.  Li & Fung Retailing, whose parent is the biggest investor
in consumer-goods supplier  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , offered to buy all
outstanding Hang Ten shares at HK$2.70 each, Hang Ten said in a
filing to Hong Kong’s stock exchange yesterday. The stock traded
at HK$1.70 on Dec. 15, the day before it was halted, pending an
announcement.  YGM Trading  Li & Fung Retailing said it won’t increase the offer for
Hang Ten, which posted a profit of HK$239 million for the year
ended March 31.  The acquisition “stands a good chance to get approved,
given the high premium to the current share price, and major
shareholders have shown their intention to accept the offer,”
said Daniel Wong, an analyst at Oriental Patron Holdings.  YGM Trading Ltd. (375) , a clothing retailer in Hong Kong that
holds about 22 percent of Hang Ten according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, climbed 6.8 percent to close at HK$18.76. Its net
proceeds from the sale are estimated to be about HK$589 million,
YGM said in a stock exchange filing. Wong said YGM may propose a
special dividend in the second half of financial year 2012.  YGM has pledged to accept the offer for the 214.2 million
Hang Ten shares it owns and a further 8.2 million it has on
deposit with a  law firm , it said in a Hong Kong stock exchange
statement yesterday.  Li & Fung Retailing  The family of Dennis Kung promised to accept the offer for
its 464.2 million shares, YGM said. YGM and Kung’s family
together control a 69.9 percent stake in Hang Ten, according to
the filing.  Hang Ten had HK$429 million in cash and short-term
investments as of Sept. 30.  Li & Fung Retailing, part of closely held  Li & Fung Group ,
made the offer “to enter the growing segment of casual fashion
apparel with mass appeal,” and to increase its presence in
Asian markets including  Taiwan ,  South Korea , Mainland China and
South East Asia, it said in a statement.  Citigroup acted as the financial adviser for Li & Fung in
this transaction.  Li & Fung Retailing has opened more than 100 Toys “R” Us
stores across nine markets in Asia as a licensee of  Toys “R”
Us Inc., the world’s largest toy chain. The two companies on
Nov. 1 said Toys “R” Us acquired a 70 percent stake in the
operations and may buy the remaining share.  Li & Fung Group is also the biggest shareholder in luxury
menswear merchant  Trinity Ltd. (891)  and  Convenience Retail Asia Ltd. ,
the operator of Circle K stores in Hong Kong.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  