-- Angelina Jolie’s Bosnian War Movie Triggers Anguished Memories for Actors
-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 2011-12-19T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/angelina-jolie-s-bosnian-war-movie-triggers-anguished-memories.html
Ermin Sijamija was at home in
Sarajevo during the Bosnian War when he got a phone call from a
former high-school classmate.  The caller said he was a Serbian sniper who was shooting
Bosnian Muslims from a perch above a local crossroads. He told
Sijamija that he had just spotted him walking in the area.  “Today I saw you but didn’t kill you,” the sniper said.
“But tomorrow will be somebody else, so be faster please.”  Sijamija helps re-enact the ethnic conflict that tore apart
the former  Yugoslavia  in Angelina Jolie’s directing debut, “ In
the Land of Blood and Honey .” The cast includes many actors who
experienced the brutal war first-hand in the early 1990s.  “It was very emotional,” Jolie said at a recent press
conference in New York, where she was flanked by Sijamija and
six other cast members. “I was asking them to remember painful
things.”  Jolie, who has met many war refugees in her role as a
United Nations goodwill ambassador, said the first day of
filming was the toughest. That’s when she shot a scene in which
a Serb soldier rapes a Bosnian woman in front of other female
prisoners who have just been rounded up and stripped of their
coats and jewelry while standing outside in the freezing cold.  “It was shocking for everybody,” Jolie, 36, recalled.
“As soon as I called cut, Ermin hugged (the actress who played
the rape victim) and made sure she was OK. Then all the other
men picked up all the clothes and redressed the women. That set
the tone.”  Two Languages  Jolie, who was a teenager when the 3 1/2-year war started
in 1992, said she was ignorant about the conflict before writing
and directing the film, which opens Dec. 23 in New York and  Los
Angeles . She became interested in the subject through her UN
work.  “The more I learned, the more I was overwhelmed by the
guilt of how little I knew,” she said. “I was shocked by how
long this went on.”  Jolie shot two versions of the film, one in the Bosnian
language and the other in English. She said she wanted to
broaden the audience to include people uncomfortable with
subtitles.  “So we worked twice as hard and did everything twice,”
Jolie said.  The movie centers on the relationship between Danijel
(Gordan Kostic) and Ajla (Zana Marjanovic), a Serb policeman and
Muslim artist who date briefly before the war. After the ethnic
battles break out, Ajla is imprisoned by soldiers under
Danijel’s command.  Danijel, whose father is a ruthless Serbian general (Rade
Serbedzija), protects Ajla from abuse by her captors and
conducts a secret affair with her. But their relationship is
strained by the war and eventually unravels.  Leg Wound  In the film, the Serbian general pressures his son to
become a more hard-line soldier. Kostic’s father was also a
Serbian commander, but he offered far different advice when his
son asked him whether he should return home from  London  during
the war.  “He said, ‘Stay where you are,’” Kostic remembered.
“Search for your happiness somewhere else.”  Marjanovic lived in Slovenia with her family during the
war. She said her parents and grandmother didn’t want to move
too far away because they thought the war would end quickly.  “They were in denial,” she said. “That’s when you start
to grow up very fast as a child and form your own opinion. You
see things better than adults do.”  Vanesa Glodjo, who plays Ajla’s sister, was wounded in the
leg when her Sarajevo home was shelled during the war.
One night, about 30 Bosnian fighters hid out in her family’s
fortified cellar before leaving to protect the city. Only 10
survived.  “I carry some enormous feelings inside,” she said.  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 