-- Apache to Buy Burrup Stake, Plans to Sell Project to Orica
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2011-12-19T05:43:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/apache-to-buy-burrup-stake-plans-to-sell-project-to-orica-1-.html
Apache Corp. (APA) , the second-largest
independent U.S. oil producer by market value, agreed to buy a
65 percent stake in Burrup Holdings Ltd. and said it’s in talks
to sell most of Burrup’s explosives project to  Orica Ltd. (ORI)   The deal will “secure a long-term economically viable
market for our natural gas production in Western  Australia ,” G. Steven Farris, Apache’s chairman and chief executive officer,
said today in a statement. “We do not plan to operate the
facility; we will rely on those with extensive experience in
this sector.”  Norway’s Yara International, owner of the remaining 35
percent in Burrup Holdings, has a right to match any offers by
Jan. 31. Yara is assessing its position, Bernhard Stormyr, a
spokesman said Dec. 16, after The Australian newspaper reported
a deal with Apache had been struck.  The facility, which is located in the Burrup Peninsula
region of  Western Australia , produces 6 percent of the total
world output of tradable ammonia with an annual capacity of
760,000 metric tons, according to the statement from Apache,
which has supplied Burrup’s ammonia plant with natural gas.
Orica is the world’s biggest maker of industrial explosives.  Apache didn’t reveal the terms of the deal. The Australian
newspaper reported on Dec. 15 that Apache agreed to pay $560
million for the stake.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in December 2010
appointed receivers PPB Advisory to recover loans to Burrup.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  