-- Apple, HTC, Hilfiger, Youku.com, Boeing: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2011-12-19T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/apple-htc-hilfiger-youku-com-boeing-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930) , which sued each other in a German court over technology
used in tablets and mobile phones, both face hurdles in showing
the patents they assert cover the methods used, a judge said.  Samsung sued Apple over mathematical coding procedures in
processors. Apple sued Samsung over features for unlocking touch
screens. Each may have trouble showing the other is violating
the patents, Presiding Judge Andreas Voss in Mannheim,  Germany ,
said Dec. 16 at two hearings.  “What you call an ingenious mathematical solution doesn’t
seem to be reflected in the patent,” Voss told Samsung’s
lawyers. To Apple’s he said, “Your patent speaks of a displayed
pre-determined path on the touch screen, but where’s that
displayed in the Samsung devices?”  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , and Samsung, the
world’s largest maker of mobile phones, are clashing in German
courts over smartphone devices. Apple, the world’s largest
technology company, won a temporary ruling earlier this year
banning sales ban of its competitor’s Galaxy 10.1 tablet,
invoking a design right.  Both will also meet this week when a Dusseldorf appeals
court hears the Galaxy 10.1 tablet case. A lower court is
scheduled to hear another suit by Apple seeking a ban on sales
of a Galaxy tablet model.  Samsung told the court Dec. 16 that it didn’t want its suit
to extend to  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  processors. Apple reacted by asking
the court to consider that move as dropping part of the suit.
The court hasn’t decided on that motion.  Earlier in the day on Dec. 16 Samsung expanded its suit by
introducing two additional patents into the case. The court
decided to handle them separately as two additional cases.  Apple may not be in violation of Suwon, South Korea-based
Samsung’s patents because its devices read numbers from a table
to get the same coding effects, Voss said, adding that the
Samsung patent speaks about “generating” a code.  Apple’s patent protects screen saver designs that are used
to unlock devices. Voss said the patent requires that the design
follow a path that is displayed. Holding up a Samsung Tablet 1,
the judge said the device uses two triangles that need to be
connected by a swipe and no pre-determined path for that is
displayed.  “Apple argues that those two points are the start and the
finish so they are determining such a path,” he said. “Well,
that’s like pointing from the parking lot at the start of a
hiking trial to the top of a mountain and saying: now you know
your hiking path, because you know the start and finish.”  The court scheduled a ruling in Samsung’s suit for March 2
and in Apple’s suit for Feb. 17.  The cases heard Dec. 16 are LG Mannheim 7 O 326/11 (Samsung
v. Apple) and 7 0 247/11 (Apple v. Samsung).  HTC Says Dusseldorf Court Injunction Bans IPCom Legal Threats  HTC Corp. (2498) , the world’s largest maker of mobile phones that
use Google Inc.’s Android operating system, said a Dusseldorf,
Germany, court has temporarily banned IPCom GmbH & Co. from
threatening retailers of HTC products with legal action.  “The District Court of Dusseldorf granted HTC a
preliminary injunction prohibiting the German licensing company,
IPCom, from sending misleading warning letters threatening legal
action against German retailers of HTC products,” HTC said in
an e-mailed statement.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Fake Hilfiger Jeans Seized, Given to Charity, Rebranded in U.K.  A U.K. charity has persuaded government authorities to
donate about 90 percent of the fake designer clothing they seize
in their anti-counterfeiting campaigns, the  BBC  reported .  Rather than burn or otherwise destroy the fakes, the
government is handing them over to the His Church charity, which
uses industrial sewing machines to patch over the pirated
labels, according to the BBC.  Presently His Church is working on rebranding 1,600 pair of
jeans bearing fake labels from  PVH Corp. (PVH) ’s Tommy Hilfiger unit,
according to the BBC.  The de-labeled clothing is then distributed to 250 women’s
shelters and centers for the homeless, the BBC reported, with
items that have too many brands to be patched over effectively
sent to charities in Africa, the BBC reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Youku, Tudou Trade Claims of Infringement Over Online Videos  Youku.com Inc. (YOKU)  and  Tudou Holdings Ltd. ,  China ’s two largest
operators of online video sites, are accusing each other of
 intellectual property  infringements by running pirated videos.  Youku is illegally showing the entertainment program series
“Kangxi is Coming,” whose online broadcast rights in China are
owned by Tudou, Yu Bin, vice president of finance at Tudou, said
in a phone interview today. Tudou has violated Youku’s rights on
“more than 60 serials” including “The Emperor’s Harem,”
Youku spokeswoman Jean Shao said in a separate phone interview.  The companies, both listed in  New York , compete with each
other by licensing content such as TV programs and films to win
viewers in China, the world’s biggest Internet market by users.
Neither has had an annual profit in at least three years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tudou “completely denies” the infringement allegations by
Youku, Yu said. Youku’s Shao said Tudou’s claims were “unfair
and misleading.”  An initial public offering by Shanghai-based Tudou in
August raised $174 million after attracting investors including
Sina Corp., operator of China’s most popular microblogging
service. The IPO by Beijing-based Youku raised $233.3 million in
December 2010.  House Panel Adjourns Debate on Hollywood-Backed Web Piracy Bill  The House Judiciary Committee adjourned its second day of
debate of a Hollywood-backed anti-piracy bill Dec. 16 that
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and other Internet companies say will foster
censorship.  Lobbying by the entertainment and Web industries
intensified with the hearing. A website, engineadvocacy.org,
said 9,788 telephone calls were made to Congress through its
link to protest the measure, the Stop Online Piracy Act. The
hearing will resume when Congress is next in session.  Movie studios, including Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc.,
want a crackdown on non-U.S. websites that sell illegally copied
films and TV shows as Web companies say the measure spurs online
censorship and harms technology innovation. Lawmakers on the
panel said a provision on blocking websites may damage the
security of the Internet’s domain-name system and requested a
delay to hear technical testimony.  The bill would let the  Justice Department  ask courts to
order Internet-service providers, search engines, payment
services and advertising networks to block or cease business
with non-U.S. websites trafficking in stolen content or
counterfeit goods. The measure also gives private copyright
holders the ability to seek court orders forcing payment and ad
companies to cut ties with such sites.  “The criticism of this bill is completely hypothetical;
none of it is based in reality,” said  Lamar Smith , who leads
the committee and introduced the measure.  U.S. Rep.  Darrell Issa , a California Republican, and
Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat, released an alternative
draft bill last week that would make the International Trade
Commission the arbiter of complaints about non-U.S. websites
linked to piracy. That proposal is backed by Google Inc.,
Facebook Inc., and other Web companies and opposed by the  Motion
Picture Association  of America.  Issa, along with House Judiciary Committee members Zoe Lofgren, a California Democrat, Jared Polis, a Colorado
Democrat, and Jason Chaffetz, a Utah Republican, submitted
multiple amendments designed to alter components of the bill.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Ex-Employee Accused of Stealing Boeing Drone Trade Secrets  An ex-employee of a  Boeing Co. (BA)  subsidiary was charged with
theft of trade secrets related to drone aircraft technology
under development for the U.S. Navy.  According to court filings, Stephen Marty Ward downloaded a
maintenance manual for existing drones at Boeing’s Insitu Inc.
unit in  Washington  state’s rural Klickitat County.  After Ward was terminated by Insitu in October, he offered
to sell back a copy of the Integrator Maintenance Manual, the
government said in a filing.  Ward was employed by Corsair, an Insitu sub-contractor, and
working at Insitu as a contract employee, according to court
papers. The reason for his termination wasn’t disclosed in court
filings.  The purloined manual contains “information that is the
culmination of years of research and development” for the
drones, which have flown more than 500,000 combat hours, the
government said.  After Ward’s termination, his access to all Insitu systems
was revoked. The government said he then contacted Corsair
seeking compensation in return for the manual. The government
alleged he also said he was planning to visit a foreign country
to contact others interested in the drone technology.  The government recorded some of the phone conversation and
e-mail Ward sent Corsair officials to indicate he was in
possession of the manual, according to the government’s court
filings.  Ward pleaded not guilty plea to the trade-secret charges
Dec. 14. The court ordered him held without bail.  The case is U.S.A. v. Ward, 2:11-cr-02123-RMP, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Washington (Spokane).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 