-- Apple Gains Ground as U.S. Patent-Infringement Ruling Bans Some HTC Phones
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2011-12-20T13:08:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/apple-wins-u-s-patent-ruling-banning-some-htc-phone-imports.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  won a patent-infringement
ruling that bans some HTC Corp. smartphones from the U.S.
starting next year, bolstering efforts to prove that devices
running Google Inc.’s Android operating system copy the iPhone.  The U.S. International Trade Commission, in a review of a
judge’s findings in July,  said  yesterday that HTC is violating
one Apple patent related to data-detection technology and issued
a limited import exclusion order that takes effect April 19.  While less than what Apple sought, the ruling provides its
first victory in patent cases designed to slow the growth of
Google’s Android, which former Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  claimed “ripped off the iPhone.” Apple’s fight against
the Google system includes another case against HTC, as well as
complaints against Samsung Electronics Co. and Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc. Apple is involved in more than a dozen other cases
before the trade commission.  “The battle between Apple and Android is going to
continue,” said Peter Toren, a patent lawyer with Shulman
Rogers in Potomac,  Maryland , who has been watching the cases.
“I’m not sure this decision, the way it is, is enough to push
the parties to settlement. Apple doesn’t have the leverage of a
total exclusionary order.”  Representatives from Google had no immediate comment. HTC
will completely remove it from all its phones soon, Grace Lei, general counsel for Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC, said in an
e-mail. The six-member commission determined that three other
patents in the case weren’t infringed.  Google, HTC Partnership  HTC, the second-largest maker of Android phones, used its
partnership with  Mountain View , California-based Google to help
transform itself from a contract manufacturer founded in 1997 to
the biggest U.S. smartphone seller in the third quarter.  The ruling is the first definitive decision in the dozens
of patent cases that began to proliferate in 2010 as smartphone
makers battle over a market that Strategy Analytics Inc. said
increased 44 percent last quarter from a year earlier to 117
million phones worldwide.  Google, which hasn’t been named in any Apple cases, denies
copying the iPhone and said in a filing that Apple is trying to
control the U.S. smartphone market through litigation.  HTC’s Android devices “are helping prevent Apple’s iOS
from becoming the sole viable mobile platform and thus ‘locking
in’ consumers and software developers to that platform,” Google
said in an Oct. 6 filing.  Google Licenses  Google’s Android accounts for about 70 percent of the
smartphone operating systems used in the U.S., according to
Canalys. Google licenses Android to handset makers for free as a
way to further its business of selling display and search
advertising on mobile devices.  Google’s share of this year’s estimated $2.1 billion U.S.
mobile-ad market will expand to 24 percent from 19 percent in
2010, Framingham, Massachusetts-based researcher IDC said Dec.
13. Millennial Media Inc.’s slice may climb to 17 percent from
15 percent, and Apple’s will decline to 15 percent from 19
percent.  The list of affected products and a full reason for the
commission’s decision, which is subject to appeal and a
presidential review, wasn’t immediately made public. Apple’s
original complaint named HTC’s Nexus One, Touch Pro, Diamond,
Tilt II, Dream, myTouch, Hero and Droid Eris.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-
based Apple, declined to discuss the possibility of a
settlement. She repeated the company’s position that
“competition is healthy, but competitors should create their
own original technology.”  Recognizing Telephone Numbers  HTC shares (2498)  rose by the 7 percent daily limit to NT$476 in
Taipei after the company said it will buy back 10 million of its
own shares, equal to 1.16 percent of those outstanding.  HTC generated about $5 billion in U.S. sales last year,
according to a separate patent complaint it filed at the trade
agency against Apple. That’s more than half of HTC’s $9 billion
(NT$275 billion) in global sales last year.  The commission’s order applies to new phone imports and
doesn’t force HTC to pull existing devices off U.S. store
shelves. The company can import refurbished phones to fulfill
warranties or insurance contracts through Dec. 19, 2013.  “This exemption does not permit HTC to call new devices
‘refurbished’ and to import them as replacements,” the
commission said.  Apple’s so-called ‘647 patent covered a feature in which
the phone recognizes a telephone number so it can be stored in
directories or called without dialing.  “The ‘647 patent is a small user interface experience,”
Lei said. The company is pleased with the commission’s overall
decision, and “we respect it.”  IPhone 4s, Galaxy  HTC phones accounted for 24 percent of the U.S. smartphone
market in the third quarter, based on shipments,  Palo Alto ,
California-based researcher Canalys  reported  Oct. 31. Samsung
held 21 percent of the market, and Apple 20 percent. The market
is volatile, and the Apple iPhone 4s that went on sale in
October and Samsung’s newest Galaxy phone are likely to change
the rankings for the fourth quarter.  Apple contended in its complaint that the HTC phones
infringed four patents. Administrative Law Judge Carl Charneski
in July sided with Apple for two of the patents: the data-
detection one and the other covering the transmission of
multiple types of data. The commission overturned the judge’s
findings on that patent, and affirmed his determination that the
remaining two patents weren’t infringed, which covered ways
software programs are written and executed.  The commission, a quasi-judicial arbiter of trade disputes
with the power to block products that infringe U.S. patents,
chose in September to review Charneski’s findings.  ‘Destroy Android’  Apple has a second complaint pending before the commission
that claims other HTC smartphones and Flyer tablet computers
infringe five patents related to software architecture and user
interfaces. Apple also has cases before the trade commission and
in district courts against Samsung and  Motorola Mobility , which
Google agreed to acquire in August.  The fight can be traced back to a decision by Jobs in March
2010 to file the HTC case, the first patent complaint by a
device maker targeting Google’s Android operating system. Jobs,
who died Oct. 5, made it his mission “to destroy Android,”
which he said “ripped off the iPhone, wholesale,” according to
Walter Isaacson’s biography of the Apple founder.  HTC has retaliated with two trade commission cases against
Apple, one submitted last year and one in August. HTC lost a
preliminary ruling by a judge in the case filed last year, a
decision that the commission is now reviewing. The other case
has yet to be decided. S3 Graphics Co., a company HTC agreed to
buy in July, also has two commission cases against Apple, one of
which Apple won last month.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Personal Data and
Mobile Communications Devices and Related Software, 337-710,
U.S. International Trade Commission ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  