-- Arkema Seen Luring Sabic Bid With Low EBITDA Multiple: Real M&A
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2011-12-20T20:55:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/arkema-seen-luring-sabic-or-dupont-bids-with-low-ebitda-multiple-real-m-a.html
Arkema SA (AKE) , already cheaper than any
of its rival industrial chemical producers, may now be a
takeover target for Saudi Basic Industries Corp. and DuPont Co.
after deciding to spin off its unprofitable vinyls business.  Since losing a third of its market capitalization in the
past seven months, Arkema’s combined equity and net debt is
valued at 3.5 times this year’s earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, based on analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. The multiple is the lowest among rival
chemical producers, including  Lanxess AG (LXS) ,  Solvay SA (SOLB) ,  Clariant AG (CLN) 
and  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  With the sale of a unit that’s been hampered by slumping
construction spending, Arkema may now attract takeover interest
from Sabic, the world’s biggest petrochemicals maker, and
 DuPont (DD) , the largest U.S. chemicals producer by market value,
according to Berenberg Bank. The company, which makes chemicals
used in everything from athletic  shoes  to air conditioning, may
also lure private equity bidders, said Nomura Holdings Inc.
Colombes, France-based Arkema could fetch as much as 70 euros a
share in an acquisition, according to Berenberg, a 47 percent
premium to yesterday’s closing price.  “It revives the allure for a takeover,” Francoise Delva,
an analyst at Gilbert Dupont in Paris, said in a telephone
interview. The separation of the vinyls unit “is positive for
the company, hence it will expose it to the appetite” of
potential buyers, she said.  Remaining Independent  Arkema shares rose 9.1 percent to 51.98 euros today, the
biggest gain in the  Bloomberg Europe Chemicals Index. (BECHEMC)   Justin Powell-Tuck, a spokesman for  Riyadh , Saudi Arabia-
based Sabic, didn’t respond to an e-mail or calls to his office
phone and mobile phone requesting comment. Dan Turner, a
spokesman for Wilmington, Delaware-based DuPont, declined to
comment on speculation regarding Arkema.  “Our objective is still to remain independent with rapid
and deep transformation of the company,” Thierry Le Henaff,
Arkema’s chief executive officer, said in an e-mailed response
to questions. “Over the long term, we are convinced that the
growth potential of the company remains very promising.”  Arkema disclosed on Nov. 23 that Klesch & Co., a Geneva-
based  investment company  focused on aluminum and oil refining,
will buy its vinyls unit. The division, which makes the basic
materials for PVC, a plastic used in construction and food-
packaging, has posted an operating loss the past three years
because of the slumping European construction market and rising
energy prices. Arkema said the sale will close by mid-2012.  ‘Massively Undervalued’  “The vinyls business has been a drag because of the end
market, which is construction,” Jaideep Pandya, a London-based
analyst at Berenberg, said in a phone interview. “Now that the
vinyls are gone, the asset becomes very interesting. The stock
is still massively undervalued.”  After reaching a peak of 78 euros in May, Arkema shares
declined 49 percent through Nov. 22, the day before the vinyls
spinoff was announced. Since then, the stock rebounded 20
percent, giving the company a market value of 2.95 billion euros
($3.83 billion) as of yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Arkema’s equity and 654 million euros in net debt were
valued yesterday at 3.5 times this year’s Ebitda, which analysts
project will climb to a record 1.03 billion euros, according to
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest multiple
among its chemical competitors, which Arkema  identifies  as
Lanxess, Solvay, Clariant,  Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA) ,  Tessenderlo Chemie NV (TESB) ,
 BASF SE (BAS) ,  Celanese Corp. (CE) , Dow and DuPont. The group was valued at
a median of 5.3 times 2011 Ebitda as of yesterday, the data
show.  ‘Low Multiples’  Arkema’s shares also closed at a 57 percent discount to its
sales, the data show.  “With its current low multiples, a company that’s divested
the least interesting part for a buyer will certainly rejoin the
group of potential targets,” Patrick Lambert, an analyst at
Societe Generale SA in Paris, said in a phone interview.  The company may draw buyers because of its “strong”
market position in  acrylics , technical polymers and niche
products such as fluorochemicals and thiochemicals, he said.  Arkema CEOLe Henaff has said he will continue to invest in
its remaining plants and businesses that make ingredients used
in paints and adhesives, diapers, water treatment, oil and gas
recovery, animal nutrition, solar panels, lithium-ion batteries
and lightweight car engine parts.  Sabic (SABIC) , DuPont  The diversified portfolio may attract DuPont because of the
“significant overlap” in methacrylates and PVDF fluorinated
polymers used in water treatment and solar panels, said Pandya
at Berenberg. The almost $40 billion company could boost its
profit margin by buying Arkema and cutting costs, he said.  Saudi Basic, known as Sabic, could upgrade its plastics
portfolio with Arkema’s PVDF and high-end polymers, Pandya said.
The state-controlled company, with a market value of about $76
billion and almost $15 billion in cash as of Sept. 30, could
also use Arkema to help tap into the “megatrend” of solar
power in the  Middle East , he said.  An acquisition of Arkema may fetch 65 euros to 70 euros a
share from a strategic buyer, according to Pandya, valuing the
company’s equity at as much as 4.33 billion euros. It would also
represent a premium of up to 47 percent more than the company’s
closing stock price of 47.65 euros yesterday.  While Jean De Watteville, a London-based analyst at Nomura,
pegs Arkema’s value at closer to 90 euros a share based on a
discounted cash flow model, he said strategic buyers aren’t
likely to emerge because Arkema’s broad range of products makes
it more difficult to boost revenue and trim costs in an
acquisition.  Leveraged Buyout  When market turmoil from  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis
eases and debt financing for buyout firms becomes more readily
available, Arkema may instead lure a private equity buyer, De
Watteville said.  “The sale of the vinyls business is the most dramatic
improvement of the portfolio,” he said in a phone interview.
“The new portfolio provides much better prospects for cash flow
generation. Before, Arkema didn’t use to have the cash-flow
profile allowing for a leveraged deal.”  Since Arkema’s separation from  Total SA (FP)  in May 2006, Le
Henaff has sold less profitable units from agrochemicals to
formaldehyde resins and now vinyls. Through yesterday, Arkema
had gained 73 percent since the split from Total when the shares
were listed at 27.5 euros, while  France ’s benchmark  CAC 40 Index (CAC) 
lost 40 percent.  ‘Cherry’ on Cake  “The spinoff did make it a more attractive company,”
Dominik Frauendienst, a London-based analyst for Citigroup Inc.,
said in a phone interview, referring to the sale of the vinyls
business. “Does it make them now a takeover candidate? We think
this is unlikely, but balance sheets are healthy and companies
are looking for M&A opportunities and therefore a takeover
cannot be ruled out.”  Three months ago, Solvay, the world’s largest soda-ash
maker, completed the 3.4 billion euro purchase of specialty-
chemicals maker Rhodia SA at a 57 percent premium to the
company’s 20-day trading average. The combination of Arkema’s
rivals contributed to $30 billion in chemical industry takeovers
this year, on pace for the highest since 2008, the data show.  There may now be “relatively strong synergies” between
Arkema and some of its competitors, said Arnaud Cayla, head of
investment at Paris-based GT Finance, which owns Arkema shares.  “The valuation is very attractive,” Cayla said in a phone
interview. “If -- cherry on the cake -- one of the giants of
the market were to be interested in Arkema, that would be a
plus.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 