-- Stocks Fall on Debt Crisis Concern
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2011-12-19T21:29:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/asian-stocks-fall-as-euro-near-11-month-low-before-meeting-on-debt-crisis.html
U.S. stocks fell, halting a two-day
advance, while Treasuries and the dollar rose amid concern
European officials were failing to make progress in taming the
debt crisis.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 1.2 percent to
1,205.35 at 4 p.m. in New York and the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  decreased 100.13 points, or 0.8 percent, to 11,766.26.
Ten-year Treasury yields fell four basis points to 1.81 percent.
The euro lost 0.4 percent to $1.2995 as the dollar climbed
against 13 of 16 major peers. The won sank to a two-month low
and the Kospi Index slid 3.4 percent after North Korean leader
Kim Jong Il died. Corn and wheat led commodities higher.  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said
substantial risks to the economy remain and the law forbids him
from increasing government bond purchases to fight the crisis.
Equities extended losses as Dow Jones reported that European
Union finance ministers failed to agree on raising the joint
ceiling of their temporary and permanent rescue funds.  Banks (BKX) 
also led declines in U.S. stocks amid concern about tighter
capital requirements under proposed international standards.  “A lot of people are calling on the ECB to step in and buy
more  government bonds , but that’s the wrong institution to do
it,” Brian Jacobsen, who helps oversee about $209 billion as
chief portfolio strategist at Wells Fargo Advantage Funds in
Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin, said in a telephone interview.
“They want to stay independent and if they want to retain any
credibility as inflation-fighters, they need to have these
countries come together and fund”  Europe ’s bailout programs and
the  International Monetary Fund , he said.  Banks Drop  The  S&P 500  has fallen 4.2 percent in 2011, poised to snap
a two-year rally, amid concern about slower global growth as
European leaders struggle to solve the region’s debt crisis.
Financial shares had the biggest decline in the benchmark
measure this year, tumbling 23 percent.  Citigroup Inc.,  Bank of America (BAC)  Corp. and JPMorgan Chase &
Co. tumbled at least 3.7 percent to help lead losses in all 24
stocks in the KBW Bank Index today. Bank of America dropped
below $5 for the first time since March 2009, closing at $4.99 a
share.  Banks should be forced to reveal more data about their
financial reserves so that they can’t conceal poor management
decisions and excessive risk-taking, global regulators said.
Lenders should “disclose the full list” of instruments that
they are counting toward meeting their required minimum capital
levels, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision said in an e-
mailed statement today.  The Wall Street Journal reported that the  Federal Reserve 
is expected to accept the rules laid out by the Basel Committee.
The newspaper cited unidentified people familiar with the
situation.  Commodities  The S&P GSCI Index climbed 0.3 percent as 13 of 24
commodities tracked by the index advanced. Corn and wheat
climbed at least 2.7 percent as adverse weather threatened crops
in  South America . Oil rose 0.4 percent to $93.88 a barrel on
concern that geopolitical tensions will increase as the son of
 Kim Jong Il  took power in North Korea, while the U.S. and its
allies prepared to discuss stronger measures against Iran.  More than three shares retreated for every two that rose in
the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index . SGL Carbon SE plunged more than 9
percent after its chief financial officer said the company
doesn’t expect its shareholders Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and
Susanne Klatten to mount a takeover. Air Berlin Plc soared 8.3
percent after saying that Etihad Airways will increase its stake
in the company to 29.2 percent.  Banks in the Stoxx 600 fell 0.2 percent as a group as
National Bank of Greece SA lost 5 percent and Lloyds Banking
Group Plc slid 4.2 percent.  ECB Loans  ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said he expects
“significant” demand for the central bank’s three-year loans,
its latest attempt to keep credit flowing to households and
businesses during the debt crisis.  “I cannot put a figure to it, but I would think that it
would be significant,” Constancio told Bloomberg Television in
an interview in Frankfurt today. “It’s an important instrument
for banks. They face very high refinancing needs early next year
related to the repayment of medium-term debt.”  IMF Loans  European finance ministers did agree to bolster their anti-
crisis arsenal, channeling 150 billion euros ($195 billion) to
the IMF. Four countries not using the euro -- the  Czech
Republic , Denmark, Poland and Sweden -- pledged to follow suit,
Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker said in an e-
mailed statement after chairing a teleconference of EU finance
ministers today. Britain refused to commit, in a sign of the
difficulty of attracting outside cash to the rescue effort.  Germany  continued to oppose an early decision to raise the
limit of 500 billion euros on overall emergency aid. European
leaders plan to tackle that question by March. Still, the IMF
infusion and jump in ECB bond purchases indicated that Europe is
wielding more money instead of relying on budget cuts alone to
persuade investors to return to markets scarred by two years of
burgeoning debt and threatened defaults.  The ECB said it settled 3.36 billion euros ($4.4 billion)
of bond purchases in the week through Dec. 16, up from 635
million euros the previous week. The central bank will take
seven-day term deposits tomorrow to absorb the 211 billion euros
of liquidity created since its bond program started on May 10
last year, a practice it employs to ensure the purchases don’t
fuel inflation.  European Yields  Germany’s two-year  bund yield  touched a euro-era low of
0.207 percent.  French 10-year bonds snapped a four-day gain as yields
increased four basis points to 3.10 percent. France sold 7
billion euros ($9.1 billion) of bills after  Fitch Ratings  last
week reduced its outlook for the nation’s credit grade to
negative from stable.  The Dutch 10-year yield climbed three basis points. Spain’s
two-year note yields fell nine basis points to 3.37 percent.
They have dropped 154 basis points in the past seven trading
days, the longest run of declines since October 2010.  Belgium’s 10-year yield jumped nine basis points to 4.38
percent after the nation’s credit ranking was cut two steps at
the end of last week by Moody’s Investors Service.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  dropped 1.8 percent,
sliding to the lowest level on a closing basis in three weeks.
The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  lost 0.3 percent after new home
prices in  China  dropped in 49 of 70 cities monitored by the
government in November. The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  fell 0.7
percent.  South Korea’s won depreciated 1.8 percent against the
dollar, and also lost more than 1 percent against currencies
including the Norwegian krone, Canadian dollar and Mexican peso
as it weakened against all 16 major peers. A government
statement called on North Koreans to “loyally follow” Kim Jong
Il’s son, Kim Jong Un, amid concern that a power struggle may
erupt in the communist nation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  Sao Paulo  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Ksenia Galouchko in  New York  at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  