-- Asian Stocks Decline on Reports Kim Jong Il Has Died, Europe Debt Concerns
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2011-12-19T10:40:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/asian-stocks-fall-after-fitch-warns-of-credit-rating-downgrades-in-europe.html
Asian stocks fell after reports
North Korean leader Kim Jong Il has died, extending earlier
losses sparked by Fitch Ratings saying it may cut the credit
ratings of European nations.  HSBC Holdings Plc (5) ,  Europe ’s biggest lender, dropped 2
percent in Hong Kong on speculation the worsening European debt
crisis will hurt bank earnings. Samsung Electronics Co., South
Korea’s biggest exporter that gets about 20 percent of sales
from Europe, slid 3.6 percent in Seoul.  Billabong International
Ltd. (BBG)  slumped 44 percent in Sydney after the surfwear maker cut
its earnings outlook. The Kospi 200 Volatility Index of Korean
option prices jumped up to 20 percent on news of Kim’s death.  “The market has been pretty weak, and when something
unexpected happens in this kind of sentiment, people want to go
for safety,” said Tim Leung, who helps manage about $1.5
billion at IG Investment Ltd. in Hong Kong. “Whether a
successor would be able to stabilize the situation with Korea is
important to see. In the short term, people would want to close
some of their positions to see what happens next.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 1.8 percent to 110.45 as
of 7:34 p.m. in  Tokyo , heading for its lowest close since Nov.
25. Almost five shares fell for each that rose in the measure.
The gauge dropped 2.3 percent last week as signs of slowing
economic growth in  China  and  Japan  and concern that Europe’s
debt crisis is worsening overshadowed improving U.S. data.  Dictator Dies  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  declined 1.3 percent.
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 fell 2.4 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng
slipped 1.2 percent and China’s Shanghai Composite Index lost
0.3 percent.  Losses deepened after Yonhap News reported that Kim Jong
Il, the second-generation North Korean dictator, died at age 70.
South Korea’s Kospi Index sank 3.4 percent. The  Kospi 200 
volatility gauge closed 10 percent higher, the biggest advance
in five weeks, at 27.98, indicating options traders expect a
swing of 8 percent in the next 30 days.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  climbed 0.6
percent today, reversing a loss of as much as 0.7 percent. The
index rose 0.3 percent in  New York  on Dec. 16 as gains by
commodity producers overshadowed concerns about the European
debt crisis. Fitch Ratings put credit ratings for France,
Belgium, Spain, Slovenia, Italy, Ireland and Cyprus under review
for a downgrade, saying a “comprehensive” solution to Europe’s
crisis is “technically and politically beyond reach.”  “Europe’s situation continues to be tough,” said  Kenichi Hirano , general manager and strategist at Tachibana Securities
Co. in Tokyo. “We are likely to see more downgrades for
government debt and banks.  Stocks (MXAP)  will take a hit every time
that happens.”  Europe Meeting  Shares of financial companies and exporters to Europe
dropped on concern their earnings will decline as the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis spreads. Finance ministers in the euro
region are holding a conference call at 3:30 p.m. Brussels time
today to meet a self-imposed deadline to channel additional
bailout funds and put together new budget rules to stem the debt
crisis and buoy investor confidence.  HSBC fell 2 percent to HK$57.65 in Hong Kong.  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC) , Australia’s second-biggest lender, dropped 2.2
percent to A$20.05 in Sydney. Samsung Electronics slid 3.6
percent to 1.007 million won Seoul.  Stocks extended losses today even after the U.S. Congress
passed a $1 trillion spending bill to avert a government
shutdown.  China Home Prices  Chinese developers declined as China’s home prices posted
the worst performance this year, with more than half of the 70
biggest cities monitored in November recording declines after
the government reiterated plans to maintain property curbs.  China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. (688) , the biggest mainland
homebuilder listed in Hong Kong, sank 3.4 percent to HK$13.84 in
Hong Kong.  China Resources Land Ltd. (1109) , a state-owned developer,
dropped 4 percent to HK$12.48.  Agile Property Holdings Ltd. (3383) , a
real-estate company partly owned by JPMorgan Chase & Co., fell
3.2 percent to HK$6.66.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 20 percent this year,
compared with a 3 percent drop by the S&P 500 and a 15 percent
loss by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the Asian
benchmark are valued at 12.3 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 12.3 times for the S&P 500 and 10.2 times
for the Stoxx 600.  Billabong tumbled 44 percent to A$2.03, poised for its
biggest decline on record, after saying first-half profit may
fall by as much as 26 percent as sales stalled in three key
markets, including Australia, Europe and North America. The
forecast comes less than two months after the company predicted
a strong increase in earnings.  Gauges of raw-material producers posted the biggest decline
among the 10 industry groups in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.
Crude oil futures traded near a six-week low in New York.
Copper, zinc and nickel declined for the first time in three
days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in  Hong Kong  at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  