-- Asian Currencies Decline Led by Korean Won as Kim Jong Il Dies
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g   a n d   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2011-12-19T04:08:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/asian-currencies-decline-led-by-korean-won-as-kim-jong-il-dies.html
South Korea ’s won dropped the most
among emerging-market currencies after the official Korean
Central News Agency reported North Korean dictator  Kim Jong Il 
had died.  Kim, 70, passed away on Dec. 17 of exhaustion brought on by
a sudden illness while on a domestic train trip, the news agency
said. The  Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index , which tracks the
region’s 10 most-active currencies excluding the yen, fell 0.4
percent and the MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of shares declined 2.1
percent. France’s AAA credit outlook was lowered to negative on
Dec. 16 by Fitch Ratings, which also put Spain and Italy on
review for a downgrade citing Europe’s failure to find a
“comprehensive solution” to its debt crisis.  “The death of Kim Jong Il has triggered selling of the
Korean won but the sell-off should be short-lived as the country
apparently prepared for the transition of leadership,” said
 Frances Cheung , a senior strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in
 Hong Kong . “Market sentiment was already weak to begin with
today on lingering European debt crisis concerns.”  South Korea’s won slid 1.6 percent to 1,177.15 per dollar
as of 12:53 p.m. in Seoul, the biggest decline since Sept. 26,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Indonesian rupiah
dropped 0.6 percent to 9,090, the Philippine peso fell 0.5
percent to 44.037, and  China ’s yuan declined 0.07 percent to
6.3530.  Europe Crisis Meeting  A statement from the North Korean government called on
citizens to “loyally follow” Kim Jong Il’s son, Kim Jong Un.
South Korea’s Kospi index of stocks declined 4.2 percent, the
biggest drop since Nov. 10, while the won weakened the most
among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Euro-area finance ministers hold a conference call today as
they seek to meet a self-imposed deadline for arranging
International Monetary Fund aid.  France  is scheduled to sell as
much as 7 billion euros ($9.1 billion) of bills, after Fitch
reduced its outlook for the nation’s credit to negative from
stable. Global funds sold $1.3 billion more Indian, Indonesian,
South Korean and Taiwanese stocks than they bought last week,
according to exchange data.  Malaysia’s ringgit was little changed before a government
report on Dec. 21 that may show consumer prices rose 3.3 percent
from a year earlier in November after gaining 3.4 percent the
previous month, according to the median estimate of economists
in a Bloomberg News survey. The currency traded at 3.1780 per
dollar, compared with 3.1778 at the end of last week.  “Market players are reluctant to take heavy positions
ahead of the inflation data,” said Calbert Loh, the head of
treasury at Bangkok Bank Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur . “The Malaysian
currency will likely trade in a tight range as  Fitch Ratings ’
downgrade of France is discounted and won’t have a major
impact.”  Thai Inflows  Thailand’s baht strengthened on speculation funds from
insurance claims related to the nation’s worst floods in 70
years are starting to come in. The currency rose 0.2 percent to
31.28 per dollar.  There’s been about $2 billion of inflows from overseas
insurers so far, Bank of Thailand Governor Prasarn
Trairatvorakul said yesterday. The baht touched its weakest
level since August 2010 on Dec. 16 as international investors
sold $160 million more Thai equities than they bought last week
and pulled $316 million from government debt, according to data
from the stock exchange and the Thai Bond Market Association.  “Fund inflows related to insurance payments are one of the
only supporting factors for the baht,” said Sadaaki Kondou,
senior vice president of the Asian and emerging-markets team at
Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in  Tokyo . “Sentiment for emerging-
market currencies seems to be quite weak due to concern  Europe 
won’t be able to solve its debt crisis anytime soon.”  Taiwan  Exports  Other reports this week may show Taiwan’s export orders
rose 2.8 percent last month from a year earlier, after gaining
4.4 percent in October, according to the media estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg before official data tomorrow.
The central bank will meet to review borrowing costs on Dec. 29
and two of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg predict the
benchmark  interest rate  will be cut to 1.75 percent from 1.875
percent. The rest forecast no change.  Elsewhere, Taiwan’s dollar was little changed at NT$30.397
versus its U.S. counterpart, while  Singapore ’s dollar fell 0.3
percent to S$1.3061.  India ’s rupee dropped 0.7 percent to
53.0950.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net ;
Jiyeun Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  