-- AT&T’s Failed Takeover Is Goldman Sachs’s Gain as Lead in Global M&A Widen
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   W o l l m a n
-- 2011-12-19T23:38:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/at-t-deal-loss-gives-goldman-wider-lead-in-2011-m-a-rankings.html
AT&T Inc. (T) ’s failed $39 billion
acquisition of  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile USA Inc. extends
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s lead among takeover advisers, while
seven rivals including JPMorgan Chase & Co. lose market share.  Goldman Sachs, the only bank among the top four advisers
that wasn’t involved in the deal, now has 24 percent of the
market with $529.5 billion in takeovers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. JPMorgan’s share fell to 19.6 percent,
followed by Morgan Stanley with 19.2 percent and  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN) , with 15 percent, the data show.  The collapse of the deal also pulls global takeover volume
down to about $2.19 trillion, little changed from all of 2010.
AT&T’s advisers,  JPMorgan (JPM) ,  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  and  Greenhill (GHL) 
& Co., will lose about $65 million in fees, according to
estimates by New York-based researcher Freeman & Co.  Greenhill plunged to 40th place in the mergers and
acquisitions rankings after AT&T said today that it was
scrapping the deal. Previously, it had held 18th place for the
year, data show. The firm, founded by Robert Greenhill, has slid
57 percent in New York trading this year, the  worst performance (S4FINL) 
in the 79-company Standard and Poor’s Midcap Financials Index.  Advisers on the Deutsche Telekom side may fare better, and
could still get a percentage of the deal’s reverse $3 billion
breakup fee, said Lam Nguyen, a director at Freeman. Deutsche
Telekom’s bankers included  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Credit Suisse,
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)   Separately, JPMorgan may have received as much as $80
million arranging a $20 billion bridge loan for AT&T, Nguyen
said.  Sprint’s Adviser  Goldman Sachs had been an adviser to  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ,
which had been in talks to buy T-Mobile USA before AT&T agreed
to a takeover, people familiar with the matter said in March.
The New York-based bank held the top spot in global M&A advisory
every year from 2001 to 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  T-Mobile is the biggest deal to be scrapped since BHP
Billiton Ltd.’s $40 billion takeover bid for Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc. was blocked by the Canadian government,
according to the data.  Goldman Sachs may further extend its lead over rivals if
regulators reject Express Scripts Inc.’s proposed purchase
of Medco Health Solutions Inc. The $29.1 billion acquisition,
which would result in the largest U.S. manager of pharmacy
benefits for employers, insurers and union health plans, is
under review by the Federal Trade Commission, and states have
opened inquiries into the sale out of concern that the combined
company will command too much market power.  St. Louis-based Express Scripts has  plunged (ESRX)  18 percent
since July 20, the day before the deal was announced. Medco,
based in Franklin Lakes, New Jersey, has dropped 2.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Wollman in San Francisco at 
 ewollman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  