-- AT&T Pulls its $39 Billion Bid for T-Mobile
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2011-12-20T21:16:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/at-t-pulls-39-billion-t-mobile-bid-after-regulator-opposition.html
AT&T Inc.’s $39 billion bid to
acquire  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile USA came to an end
yesterday in a phone call between the companies’ chief executive
officers, according to people familiar with the matter.  AT&T’s  Randall Stephenson  and Deutsche Telekom’s Rene Obermann ultimately agreed the costs of continuing to fight for
the deal unveiled nine months earlier were too high, given the
opposition from U.S. regulators, the people said. AT&T’s bid to
close the year’s biggest acquisition and become the largest U.S.
wireless carrier was over.  “They made an unprecedented move bidding on T-Mobile and
appear to have miscalculated the risks and the regulatory
opposition,” said Kevin Smithen, an analyst with Macquarie
Capital USA Inc.  AT&T failed to convince the  Justice Department , which sued
to block the transaction in August, that it could remedy the
market impact of absorbing T-Mobile, the nation’s No. 4 mobile-
phone operator. AT&T would have spent months in litigation to
try to win court approval, and the company also faced possible
opposition from the Federal Communications Commission.  AT&T rose 1.3 percent to $29.12 at the close in New York
and has lost less than 1 percent this year. Deutsche Telekom
 fell  0.6 percent to 8.84 euros in  Frankfurt .  AT&T, the second-largest U.S. wireless operator, will take
a pretax charge of $4 billion to reflect cash payments and other
considerations due to Deutsche Telekom, the Dallas-based company
said in a statement yesterday.  Last Best Offer  The move comes a week after the judge in the Justice
Department lawsuit agreed on Dec. 12 to put the case on hold as
the telephone company decided whether or how to revise the
transaction. The delay may have made it more difficult for AT&T
to close the deal by the Sept. 20 deadline.  AT&T had been trying to get regulatory approval for the
deal by selling off T-Mobile assets and creating a stronger
wireless competitor. The last proposal before the deal was
killed was the transfer of $8 billion to $9 billion worth of T-
Mobile assets to  Leap Wireless International Inc. (LEAP)  for a cost of
about $2 billion, said two people familiar with the talks.  The Justice Department didn’t consider Leap a strong
alternative because the San Diego-based company didn’t have
enough money to make substantial capital investments in its
network if it acquired the assets, the people said.  AT&T’s Stephenson said in the statement yesterday that
efforts by the DOJ and FCC to block the deal may hurt customers
and industry investment.  Stephenson’s Confidence  “To meet the needs of our customers, we will continue to
invest,” Stephenson said, adding that regulators need to allow
more airwave sales and reform rules to “meet our nation’s
longer-term spectrum needs.”  Stephenson said in March, when the deal was announced, that
he was confident of receiving regulatory clearance. He said the
combination would help improve service, speed up investment in
faster networks and drive wireless expansion in rural areas. The
deal would have added T-Mobile’s 33.7 million customers to
AT&T’s 100.7 million subscribers, surpassing Verizon Wireless’s
107.7 million.  Critics of the deal said it would eliminate an aggressive
price competitor, driving up subscription costs. T-Mobile’s
monthly wireless plans are $15 to $50 cheaper than comparable
AT&T plans, according to an  analysis  by  Consumer Reports .  “I’m relieved that we are no longer at risk of
concentrating such enormous power in the hands of AT&T and
Verizon,” U.S. Senator  Al Franken  said in a statement.  ‘Paying the Price’  What Stephenson thought was an opportunity turned out to be
an insurmountable challenge, said  Charles Golvin , an analyst
with Forrester Research Inc.  “I think he overreached,” said Golvin. “They
overestimated their ability to influence the regulatory agencies
and influence that process. Now they are paying the price.”  The failed deal may cost AT&T next year, said Smithen. The
company may have to lower its profit forecast due to capital
spending or acquisitions as it makes up for the capacity it had
planned to add through T-Mobile, he said.  “The next shoe to drop could be 2012 guidance,” said
Smithen. “The company will report earnings next month and we
are concerned that there will be downside revisions to 2012
earnings and estimates,” said Smithen.  Ashley Zandy, a spokeswoman for  AT&T, (T)  declined to comment
on the financial forecast.  DT’s Plans  For Deutsche Telekom, the collapse of the deal leaves it
with one more subscriber-losing business as the Bonn-based
company confronts the fallout from  Europe ’s debt crisis.
Deutsche Telekom had planned to use the proceeds to cut debt by
13 billion euros ($17 billion) and repurchase 5 billion euros of
its shares. The company also needs funds to upgrade fiber and
wireless networks in  Germany  and other European markets.  Deutsche Telekom says the deal’s demise won’t change its
financial targets for 2011 and that it will remain within its
forecast range for debt reduction. The company also said it
expects to receive the breakup fee’s cash component by the end
of this year, adding that it will resume reporting  T-Mobile
USA ’s earnings as “continued operations.” The division had
been reported as “discontinued operations” since the first
quarter.  AT&T and Deutsche Telekom pulled their applications to the
FCC on Nov. 24, with AT&T announcing the same day that it would
record $4 billion in costs this quarter to reflect the risk of
the deal collapsing.  $7 Billion Breakup  The withdrawal came after FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski 
asked the commission on Nov. 22 to send the proposal to an
agency judge for a hearing. The same move by the FCC in 2002
helped block EchoStar Communications Corp.’s acquisition of
satellite-TV rival DirecTV.  According to the terms of the offer, AT&T must pay Deutsche
Telekom a $3 billion breakup fee in cash, transfer radio
spectrum to T-Mobile and strike a more favorable network-sharing
agreement. Deutsche Telekom has valued the breakup package at as
much as $7 billion.  In an effort to sell the deal to regulators and the public,
AT&T vowed to honor the T-Mobile service plan prices after the
merger. The company also vowed to bring 5,000 call-center jobs
currently based overseas to the U.S. in the event of approval.  “They rolled the dice and took their chances,” said  Craig Moffett , a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst in  New York . “In
the end, it didn’t work out, but that doesn’t mean it was a
mistake to try.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  