-- ATEC Rail Says in Australian Coal Link Talks With GVK, Adani
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2011-12-19T22:07:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/atec-rail-says-in-australian-coal-link-talks-with-gvk-adani.html
ATEC Rail Group Ltd.  said it’s in
talks with India’s  GVK Group (GVKP)  and  Adani Enterprises Ltd. (ADE)  to buy
a stake in a proposed rail link in Australia’s Galilee Basin,
where about $32 billion of coal projects are being developed.  The closely held company, backed by Houston-based  The
Energy & Minerals Group , is also holding rail project equity
stake discussions with billionaire  Clive Palmer ’s China-backed
Waratah Coal Pty, John Balassis, managing director of the
Sydney-based rail developer and manager, said in an interview.  GVK, controlled by Indian billionaire G.V. Krishna Reddy,
Adani, India’s biggest coal importer, and Waratah, are among
global groups planning projects in the basin to meet demand for
coal from  Asia . The three are each pursuing their own rail
projects to start shipping from 2015, while Queensland’s state
government has said it favors a single corridor to the coast.  “What we’re talking to miners confidentially about is if
there is a role for us to play and try and bring about some
harmony between the three miners,” Balassis said. “We’re happy
to become an equity investor and take some of the risk to
deliver the project.”  If all the companies in the Galilee built their own rail,
it would cost each “north of $4 billion,” Jason Economidis,
director of growth projects for Vale SA’s Australian unit, said
last month. ATEC founded and owns one-third of the A$1.2 billion
($1.2 billion) Surat Basin rail project, also in Queensland.  “GVK does not comment on specific negotiations, but can
confirm that it is considering bringing new equity investors
into its integrated Galilee Basin coal project,” Michael
Vaughan of FTI Consulting, a Sydney-based outside spokesman for
GVK, said in an e-mail.  New Paradigm  Mining companies are having to develop new operations
further inland as demand increases in China and  India , the two
fastest-growing major economies. Electricity demand in Asia,
excluding  Japan , will rise threefold by 2025, with thermal coal
remaining the main fuel for generation, according to Royal Bank
of Scotland Plc. The Galilee mines, about 500 kilometers (311
miles) from the coast, will produce mostly thermal coal.  “Miners are moving into a new paradigm -- traditionally,
projects have been 100 to 200 kilometers from the coast and
reasonably well-serviced by existing infrastructure,” said
Balassis on Dec. 16. “A lot of these coastal assets are
depleting and they’re moving into projects 300 to 400 kilometers
from the coast, which 10 years ago was uneconomic because prices
weren’t high enough.”  Prices hit record highs this year due to flooding in
 Australia , the world’s biggest coal-exporting nation, and rising
demand. Thermal coal prices are likely to rise over the next two
years, supported by demand in Asia, Credit Suisse Group AG said
in a note dated Oct. 4.  Speed Development  “What we’re looking to deploy in the market is a
partnership arrangement with miners” bringing its rail
experience and funding into the potential joint venture, said
Balassis, who expects a decision next year.  The companies seeking to develop the basin, also including
AMCI Capital LP, a U.S.-based private equity investor, and Vale,
the world’s biggest exporter of  iron ore , should build a jointly
owned railway to save costs and speed development, Vale’s
Economidis said last month.  Andrew Crook of Crook Publicity, an outside spokesman for
Clive Palmer, owner of Waratah Coal, didn’t respond to a message
left on his mobile phone. Adani didn’t respond to a message left
at its offices in Australia.  Next Year  ATEC’s Surat Basin project is planned to service mining
companies including  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , with construction expected to
start next year. QR National Ltd., a rail company, and Xstrata
are the other owners of the Surat Basin project.  The company has access to funding “in the billions” from
Energy & Minerals, ATEC’s Balassis said. EMG, as ATEC’s second-
biggest investor is known, is a private investment firm managing
$3.8 billion in funds, according to its website.  The Queensland state government this month approved a A$9
billion expansion of the Abbot Point coal export port to
increase capacity to meet demand from producers in Australia.
Abbot Point will be the main exit point for coal produced in the
Galilee, with a capacity of 385 million tons planned in 2017,
from a current 50 million tons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  