-- Audis Made on Skodas Mark Major VW Overhaul
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2011-12-19T23:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/audis-made-on-skodas-mark-biggest-vw-overhaul-in-20-years-cars.html
Volkswagen AG  will kick off its
biggest technology overhaul in almost two decades when  Europe ’s
largest carmaker revamps the Audi A3 next year.  The compact Audi will mark the first of more than 40 models
that will use a set of standardized components such as axles,
steering columns and chassis. Sharing parts across brands such
as VW, Skoda and Seat may lower costs by 5 billion euros ($6.5
billion) a year, even as it risks a repeat of recalls that
hobbled  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , analysts said.  “If something goes wrong, then one may get hit by an
epidemic plague,” said Christoph Stuermer, a Frankfurt-based
analyst with IHS Automotive. “The more connected the
structures, the higher the threat of contagion.”  The technology, which is targeted for use in as many as 3.5
million small and mid-sized cars a year, will help Volkswagen’s
plan to become the world’s biggest and most profitable automaker
by 2018, surpassing Toyota and  General Motors Co. (GM)   The
Wolfsburg, Germany-based manufacturer estimates it will lower
production costs 20 percent and cut assembly times 30 percent.  VW’s approach is more aggressive than the parts sharing
that has become standard in the  auto industry .  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG  said it will lower the cost of building the
best-selling 3-Series sedan, which hits showrooms in February,
by 7 percent to 9 percent by using components from the 1-Series
compact and midsize 5-Series.  Flexible Factories  The technology will provide the basis for VW models
stretching from the Polo subcompact to the mid-sized Passat,
representing the bulk of the carmaker’s sales. The company will
be able to produce cars from different brands at the same plant.
Volkswagen is not planning to close any factories or fire
workers and instead said it will save money by making the
process of building cars simpler and faster.  “There’ll be many benefits, including shorter assembly
times and increased flexibility,” said Ulrich Hackenberg, VW’s
development chief. “We’re creating a system that enables us to
produce vehicles based on this architecture at any factory.”  The initiative marks the biggest technology overhaul since
 Ferdinand Piech , chairman and former chief executive officer,
pushed the company to use common underpinnings in the early
1990s in an effort to cut losses. The manufacturer has set aside
62.4 billion euros in its rolling five-year budget to invest in
plants, vehicles and development.  ‘Big Lever’  “The parts-sharing program is a very big lever to improve
profitability that other companies don’t make use of” because
of the complexity, said  Juergen Pieper , an analyst with Bankhaus
Metzler in  Frankfurt , who estimates that the technology will
save 5 billion euros by 2016. “Without this cost-cutting
program, margins wouldn’t likely rise” from this year’s peak.  Volkswagen reported an operating margin of 7.7 percent
through the first nine months of 2011 and has a goal of lifting
that to more than 8 percent by 2018. Margins could average about
6 percent without the new vehicle architecture, said Pieper, who
recommends buying VW shares.  Toyota demonstrated the problem of sharing parts starting
in 2009 after defects spread across models and to the Lexus
brand. The manufacturer recalled more than 8 million U.S.
vehicles following claims of defects and incidents involving
unintended acceleration.  Toyota paid $48.8 million in U.S. government fines for the
way some of the recalls were conducted, the largest ever by an
automaker in the U.S.  Managing Risks  VW expects to avoid these stumbles and maintain quality,
said Hubert Waltl, production chief for the VW brand.  “Risks exist when you undertake far-reaching improvements,
but the implementation process is manageable,” said Waltl in an
e-mail response to questions. Volkswagen declined to comment on
financial aspects of the shift.  The new compact-car architecture is more flexible than
previous platforms, allowing VW to build models with different
height, width and length. The technology will be rolled out
first at German factories in Wolfsburg, Zwickau and Ingolstadt
next year. Adjusting assembly lines may cost VW between 50
million and 500 million euros per factory, IHS’s Stuermer said.  The emphasis on sharing underpinnings with VW, Skoda and
Seat poses a risk for Audi by potentially diluting the brand’s
image as it competes with BMW for the luxury-car lead, said
 Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer , director of the Center for Automotive
Research at the  University of Duisburg-Essen .  Volkswagen said it will guard against that. Chief Executive
 Martin Winterkorn  has said that the company’s cars will remain
“completely different.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  