-- Audubon’s $11 Million Birds, Pot Lover Fill Holiday Art Books
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2011-12-19T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/audubon-s-11-million-birds-pot-lover-fill-holiday-art-books.html
The old master exhibition of the
year -- if not our lifetime -- is “ Leonardo da Vinci : Painter
at the Court of Milan” at the  National Gallery ,  London . And my
favorite art book of the year is the catalog by Luke Syson
(National Gallery/Yale $65, 40 pounds).  It’s beautifully produced, clearly and elegantly written
and actually moves the debate about this endlessly fascinating
artist. If you really want to find out about the painter of
“The Last Supper” and “The Virgin of the Rocks,” this is a
much better place to begin than Dan Brown.  John James Audubon (1785-1851) was a great American artist,
but as the critic  Robert Hughes  has pointed out, he wasn’t “a
nice guy.” One of the nasty things he did was shoot birds
featured in his masterpiece, “ The Birds of America ,” one of
the most renowned and sumptuously attractive of all illustrated
books. He then wired them into place to pose for their
portraits. If that macabre procedure is reminiscent of  Damien Hirst , the taut elegance of Audubon’s images looks forward to
such contemporary masters of abstraction as  Frank Stella  and
Ellsworth Kelly.  The  Natural History Museum , London, has published a complete
reproduction of the 435 plates in Audubon’s  great work  (75
pounds; published by Sterling in the U.S. for $80). This is
somewhat reduced in scale -- Audubon had his plates printed on
“double elephant” paper almost 40 inches high -- but is also
considerably cheaper than the original, which sold for about
$1,000 even when first published in the 19th century. The last
copy to come to auction went for 7.3 million pounds ($11.3
million) last year.  ‘The Art Museum’  Like Audubon, the publishers of art books today don’t
believe small is beautiful. “Gigantic is gorgeous” could be
their credo. The most colossal and ambitious publication in the
field is probably “ The Art Museum ” (Phaidon, $200, 125
pounds). Its aim is no less than to encompass the entire
artistic achievement of mankind.  To a surprising extent, it succeeds. Arranged in
“galleries” and “rooms,” rather than chapters and
subsections, this is the paper equivalent of an encyclopedic
museum such as the  Metropolitan  in New York, covering the
achievements of every time and place from prehistoric caves to
contemporary art.  Indeed, it has some of the characteristics of a real
museum, among them an invitation to wander on and on. You open
it to look at, say, Etruscan tomb sculpture and end up an hour
later contemplating  Jackson Pollock  and feeling a little
bemused. Recommended, but for comfortable browsing you’d better
buy that old-fashioned accessory, a lectern, too.  ‘The Pot Book’  Ceramics are one of those media that could be thought of as
major or minor. “ The Pot Book ” by Edmund de Waal (Phaidon,
$49.95, 29.95 pounds) begins by quoting Gauguin -- pottery is a
“central art” -- and goes on to try to prove the point with
300 examples of clay shaped and fired from the stone age to Ai Weiwei and Grayson Perry. This is a distinctly personal, even
quirky selection -- which is part of its appeal.  The author is not only a celebrated potter but a best-
selling writer (of the off-beat family memoir, “The Hare With
Amber Eyes”). He has strong and individual taste, which comes
through in the selection: He is enthusiastic about modern studio
ceramics, which personally I find neither beautiful nor useful,
but I’m willing to be converted.  With illustrations, bigger really is best. Tiny images of
large objects are not much use. Sometimes that’s a problem with
“The Art Museum,” and “ The Louvre: All the Paintings ” (Black
Dog & Leventhal, $75, 50 pounds) runs into it, too. This
illustrates every single one of the 3,022 pictures currently on
display in one of the world’s greatest old master  collections .  That’s the good news, but less thrilling is that most of
them come out a good deal smaller than a postcard. To an extent,
that is overcome by the inclusion of a DVD, which also has
images of all those pictures on it -- some, but not all, of
which allow you to zoom in and look in more detail.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 