-- Aussie, N.Z. Dollars Hold Losses Before RBA Minutes, Spanish Bill Sales
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2011-12-19T23:26:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/aussie-n-z-dollars-hold-losses-before-rba-minutes-spanish-bill-sales.html
The Australian dollar traded 0.4
percent from a three-week low before the  Reserve Bank  of
 Australia  releases minutes today of its December meeting when it
cut  interest rates  for the second-straight month.  The New Zealand dollar held losses from yesterday before
Spain sells bills today as the country faces the risk of a
credit downgrade. Both South Pacific nations’ currencies
declined yesterday as the death of North Korean leader Kim Jong Il stoked concern cross-border tensions in the region will
escalate.  “We are expecting the RBA will be cutting rates in
February,” said Janu Chan, an economist at St. George Bank Ltd.
in Sydney. “If they signal that they will provide some more
monetary easing, we could see the Aussie come down.”  The Australian dollar was little changed at 99.01 U.S.
cents at 10:16 a.m. in Sydney from 98.96 cents yesterday in  New
York , when it tumbled 0.9 percent. It reached the lowest level
since Nov. 29 last week, falling to 98.61 U.S. cents. The so-
called Aussie was at 77.28 yen from 77.24 yesterday.  New Zealand’s currency fetched 75.59 U.S. cents from 75.55
cents yesterday when it dropped 0.8 percent. The currency
fetched 58.97 yen from 58.97.  Australia’s government bonds advanced, pushing the yield on
the 10-year  security  down as much as three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 3.69 percent, the lowest on record.  The MSCI World Index of  stocks (MXWO)  fell 1 percent yesterday.  RBA Minutes  The RBA is scheduled to release today the minutes of its
most recent policy meeting on Dec. 6, when it cut the overnight
cash rate target to 4.25 percent from 4.5 percent, its first
back-to-back reduction since 2009.  “Financing conditions have become much more difficult,
especially in  Europe ,” RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  said in a
statement accompanying that decision. “This, together with
precautionary behavior by firms and households, means that the
likelihood of a further material slowing in global growth has
increased.”  A Credit Suisse Group AG  index  based on swaps shows traders
are betting Australia’s central bank will cut rates by 134 basis
points during the next 12 months. That compares with wagers for
112 basis points of easing indicated on Dec. 7.  Spain  is due to auction three- and six-month securities
today while  Greece  is scheduled to auction 1 billion ($1.3
billion) euros of three-month bills.  Fitch Ratings  lowered its
outlook on France to “negative” on Dec. 16 and also put Spain
and Italy on review for a reduction.  “Recent bond auctions may have been a little better than
what the market has feared, but I think there could be some
events that might be a little worrying such as potential
sovereign-rating downgrades,” said St. George Bank’s Chan.
“There is still some potential downside to Aussie and to
kiwi.”  The Australian dollar has fallen 3.2 percent against its
U.S. counterpart this year, while the kiwi has dropped 3.1
percent.  -- Editors: Rocky Swift, Benjamin Purvis  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 