-- Tax Hikes Roiling Hawaii Make Abercrombie Least Popular Governor
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2011-12-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/tax-increases-roiling-hawaii-make-abercrombie-least-popular-u-s-governor.html
Hawaii  Governor Neil Abercrombie,
who can bench press 225 pounds at age 73, likes the camaraderie
of the gym.  “When you’re in the weight room, everyone’s helping
everyone else,” Abercrombie said in an interview. “Everybody’s
there with a lot of goodwill, they encourage one another.”  Abercrombie isn’t getting a lot of love elsewhere in  Hawaii 
these days. Elected just over a year ago with 58 percent of the
vote, he’s now the least-popular governor in the nation, with a
30 percent approval rating, according to an October survey by
Raleigh, North Carolina-based Public Policy Polling. That same
month, four of his senior advisers quit.  The governor attributes the friction to the budget he
signed in June, which involved tax hikes and spending cuts,
including a 5 percent salary reduction for state workers. He
spoke in a Dec. 6 interview at a Democratic Governors
Association meeting in Los Angeles.  “I told everyone when I ran, I’m going to tell you exactly
what needs to be done,” said Abercrombie, who previously served
on the Honolulu City Council, in the state Senate and in
Congress. “I’ve been elected for four decades now, always on
the basis that not everyone agrees with me.”  Abercrombie took office last December with the state facing
a $1.26 billion deficit for the two-year budgeting cycle that
ends June 2013. To help fill the gap, he proposed a 10-cent per
can tax on sugary beverages such as soda, a 50 percent boost in
 alcohol levies  and taxes on the  pensions  of people making more
than $100,000 a year.  Highest Income Tax  Hawaii tied with  Oregon  for the highest individual income
tax rate at 11 percent as of last Jan. 1, according to the
Washington-based  Tax Foundation .  Restaurant owners, soda distributors and retiree groups
rallied to oppose the measures and the Democrat-controlled
Legislature caved in to the pressure, according to Sam Slom of
Honolulu, the lone Republican in the state Senate.  “This broke out into real hostility,” Slom said in a
telephone interview. “This has not happened before. Businesses
were not well organized. They were not very effective.”  The Legislature did suspend $180 million a year in tax
exemptions for certain industries, such as businesses that sell
to military commissaries, according to Kalbert Young, Hawaii’s
budget director. Those who rent cars, mainly tourists, now have
to pay $6 more per day, worth $60 million. State employees will
pay 50 percent of their health insurance premiums, up from 40
percent.  Additional public-worker pay reductions will save the state
as much as a $100 million a year, Abercrombie said.  Subsidies Eliminated  The governor campaigned to eliminate subsidies given to
30,000 former state workers and their spouses to cover Medicare
Part B payments, a benefit that generates $139 a month for
Abercrombie himself. The Legislature eliminated the subsidies
only for future hires, which the governor considers a partial
victory.  “I wanted to put together proposals that let everyone know
how serious our deficit situation was,” Abercrombie said. “We
have unfunded liabilities in pensions and health care that are
simply not sustainable with our tiny population and tiny tax
base. We can’t continue to do this and survive.”  Hawaii ranks 40th in population, with 1.36 million
residents.  The state’s Employees’ Retirement System had an unfunded
liability of $7.1 billion or 61 percent of its assets as of
June, 2010, according to an  actuarial valuation . The governor,
who is paid $117,312 a year, collects state and federal pensions
from his previous jobs, according to his spokeswoman, Donalyn
Dela Cruz, without providing specifics.  ‘Aggressive Solutions’  Standard & Poor’s analyst Gabriel Petek cited Abercrombie’s
“willingness to implement aggressive solutions” in affirming
the state’s AA rating, the company’s third-highest, in a Nov. 8
report.  Many Hawaiian business owners, however, feel the governor
acts too independently, according to Signe Godfrey, president of
Olsten Staffing Services in Honolulu.  “He gives us an unstable feeling he may turn on us,”
Godfrey said in a telephone interview. “We don’t know what he’s
going to do.”  Marissa Capelouto, owner of Kapolei-based Oahu Express
Ltd., said she lobbied against increased levies on shipping
containers.  “I let go three drivers, I’m not buying any equipment,”
the freight-forwarding executive said. “They’re creating all
kinds of taxes just so they can feed their unions.”  Visitor Increase  Visitor spending in Hawaii rose 15.6 percent to  $1.1
billion  in October, the 10th consecutive month of revenue
increases, according to the state’s Tourism Authority. The
number of arrivals was up 2.6 percent to more than 6 million in
the first 10 months of 2011.  Prices on Hawaiian publicly-traded companies have gained
6.8 percent this year through Dec. 16, while the Standard &
Poor’s 500 equity  index (SPX)  fell 3 percent for the period, according
to the  Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States index . The
state’s unemployment rate was 6.5 percent in October, compared
with a national average of 9 percent.  “Generally things have been on a little more positive
trajectory,” said Stephen Rodgers, chief investment officer of
 Bank of Hawaii Corp. (BOH) , which oversees $1.4 billion of municipal
bond investments.  Bond Sale  After a 22-month lull, Hawaii sold $1.29 billion in debt
last month, its largest offering ever and at its lowest  interest
rate . The $800 million portion that is general-obligation debt
will cost the state 3.65 percent annually. Bonds sold to
refinance existing debt will cut present-value borrowing costs
by $59 million, the governor said in a statement.  A general-obligation bond sold last month that matures in
December 2031 traded Dec. 16 at an average yield of 3.51
percent, about 13 basis points above that of an index of top-
rated  municipal bonds  due in 20 years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Abercrombie appointed Blake Oshiro of Honolulu, the state
House of Representatives’ majority leader, to be his deputy
chief of staff in November, a move intended to improve relations
with the Legislature, according to Gene Ward, a Republican state
representative, also from Honolulu.  “There’s going to be a charm offense, to make up for what
he lost,” Ward said in a telephone interview.  The governor offered no apologies, however.  “They’ll forgive you being wrong,” he said. “They’ll
never forgive you for being right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  