-- BofA Shares Fall Below $5 for First Time Since March 2009
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2011-12-19T21:48:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/bank-of-america-falls-below-5-first-time-since-march-2009.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the second-
biggest U.S. lender, fell below $5 in New York trading for the
first time since March 2009 amid concern that  Europe ’s debt
crisis will be a drag on the world’s financial system.  Bank of America dropped 4.1 percent to $4.99 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York, the worst showing in the Dow Jones Industrial
Average, after falling as much as 5.4 percent, the most in more
than a month. The lender has plunged 63 percent this year.  European regulators are struggling to quell concern that
their lenders may be hurt by the sovereign-debt crisis. For Bank
of America, a sustained decline below $5 could reduce its appeal
to investors, said Eric Teal, chief investment officer at First
Citizens Bancshares Inc., which manages $4 billion in Raleigh,
 North Carolina , including Bank of America shares.  “As active managers, we have screens that usually prohibit
us from buying stocks under $5,” Teal said in an interview,
citing the greater volatility and risk of such equities. “If we
own it, we would not kick it out automatically, but generally we
tend to avoid stocks like that.”  Bank of America shares have been pummeled as bond buyers
and insurers demanded the company repurchase soured mortgages
made by Countrywide Financial Corp., the home lender acquired in
2008 whose lax underwriting contributed to record U.S.  defaults .
Concern has also focused on the impact that a sovereign European
default could have on the world’s largest financial firms.  ‘Absolutely Shocked’  Bank of America said it had about $14.6 billion at risk in
 Greece , Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain as of Sept. 30,
compared with about $16.7 billion at the end of the second
quarter. The Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank said its
latest figure excludes about $1.7 billion in credit-default
protection bought by the company.  “I am absolutely shocked that we see it at this price,”
 Thomas Brown , chief executive officer of Second Curve Capital
LLC, said today before the stock broke $5. “I understand why.
The management and the board don’t give you a lot of confidence,
but that’s more than reflected in the value of the company.”  Brown, who said he recommends that investors buy the stock,
made the remarks in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.  The “real danger” for a public company typically comes
when its shares approach $1 because they may be delisted, said
James Angel, a finance professor at the McDonough School of
Business at  Georgetown University  in  Washington .  Financial Crisis  With most companies that have dropped to those levels, “it
is usually some fundamental problem with the business model and
it may go to zero, but I think Bank of America is very different
from your typical small failing company,” Angel said.  Bank of America last traded below $5 in 2009 when investors
speculated that some of the biggest U.S. lenders might be
nationalized. The bank accepted $45 billion of taxpayer capital
during the financial crisis, a bailout that was later repaid.
The company was led by  Kenneth D. Lewis  through the end of 2009
until  Brian T. Moynihan , 52, took over as CEO.  The firm was unprofitable in three of the five quarters
ended Sept. 30 as the bank absorbed about $40 billion in
expenses tied to faulty mortgages and foreclosures since 2007.
To bolster capital, Moynihan has agreed to sell more than $50
billion of assets, and sold $5 billion in preferred stock to
Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  Bank of America said it had about $363 billion of cash as
of Sept. 30, enough to fund operations for two years without
going to the markets. The lender has also been reducing risk
related to the weakest European nations, Chief Financial Officer
 Bruce Thompson  said in October.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at   hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 