-- Belgian Consumer Confidence Rebounds After Government Is Formed
-- B y   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 2011-12-19T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/belgian-consumer-confidence-rebounds-after-government-is-formed.html
Belgian  consumer confidence  rose in
December after the country formed its first full-time government
in more than 18 months, rebounding from the steepest drop in
three years in the prior month.  The consumer sentiment index for  Belgium , the euro area’s
sixth-largest economy, increased to minus 12 from minus 14 in
November, the Brussels-based  National Bank of Belgium  said today
in an e-mailed statement. Confidence had plunged in November by
the most since the collapse of Fortis in 2008.  New Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo pledged budget cuts to
prevent Belgium from succumbing to the European debt crisis as
he took office this month, ending a political stalemate that had
endured since inconclusive elections in June 2010. The following
week, Moody’s Investors Service cut Belgium’s credit rating two
steps, citing rising borrowing costs, slowing economic growth
and liabilities from the breakup of  Dexia SA. (DEXB)   Moody’s lowered Belgium’s debt rating on Dec. 16 to Aa3,
the fourth-highest investment grade, from Aa1, with a negative
outlook.  Fitch Ratings  on the same day put the nation’s AA+
rating on review for a possible cut. The actions follow  Standard
& Poor’s  one-step downgrade of Belgium to AA on Nov. 25.  The Nov. 25 cut by Standard & Poor’s triggered the final
push to form a government. At their peak on that day, 10-year
bond yields reached 5.86 percent, the highest at the end of a
trading day in 11 years. Ten-year bonds now yield 4.37 percent.  “Consumers now have a much less negative perception of
future economic developments in Belgium, almost completely
canceling out the previous month’s steep fall,” the central
bank said in today’s report. “Fears of a resurgence of
unemployment over the next 12 months have also faded.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jones Hayden in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  