-- Bi-Lo to Buy Winn-Dixie for $560 Million
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2011-12-19T21:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/bi-lo-to-buy-winn-dixie-for-560-million.html
Bi-Lo LLC agreed to buy  Winn-Dixie
Stores Inc. (WINN)  for about $560 million, more than tripling the
supermarket operator’s number of stores in the U.S. South to
almost 700 and helping it compete with  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   The cash offer of $9.50 a share is 75 percent higher than
Winn-Dixie’s closing price on Dec. 16, the companies said today
in a statement. The retailers said they don’t expect to close
any stores as part of the transaction.  Bi-Lo approached Winn-Dixie earlier this year, seeking to
acquire the chain to boost sales growth, reduce costs and expand
into four new states, Bi-Lo Chairman Randall Onstead said today
in an interview. The takeover will help Bi-Lo compete with
larger rivals such as Wal-Mart and  Delhaize Group SA’s (DELB)  Food
Lion, Onstead said.  Winn-Dixie provided “absolutely the best geographic fit
for us,” Onstead, 55, said by telephone from Greenville, South
Carolina, where Bi-Lo is based. “There will be real dollar
savings as we look for efficiencies in putting these companies
together,” he said, declining to provide specifics.  Winn-Dixie surged 70 percent to $9.24 at the close in New
York. The Jacksonville, Florida-based company’s shares had
declined 24 percent this year before today.  Ethnic, Local Foods  The deal is the fourth-largest acquisition of a food
retailer in the U.S. in the past five years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It creates a company with about 690
grocery stores in the southeastern U.S. and 63,000 workers.  Closely held Bi-Lo operates 207 supermarkets in South
Carolina,  North Carolina , Tennessee and  Georgia . With 480
stores, Winn-Dixie also operates in Georgia, as well as  Florida ,
 Alabama ,  Louisiana  and  Mississippi .  Bi-Lo stores will incorporate Winn-Dixie’s efforts to stock
its supermarkets with a variety of ethnic and local foods for
its base of diverse customers, Onstead said.  The purchase values Winn-Dixie at 3.9 times earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization in the past 12
months. That compares with a median of 7.9 times for supermarket
deals globally since 2000, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The valuation is “hardly awe-inspiring” and signals that
takeovers of other food retailers are unlikely, said John Heinbockel, an analyst at Guggenheim Securities LLC in  New York .  ‘Unwelcome Distraction’  Integrating mergers would represent “an unwelcome
distraction” for executives focusing on improving operations in
a “challenging environment,” Heinbockel wrote today in a note
to clients.  “Given current valuations, we think most companies would
rather safely repurchase their own shares,” said Heinbockel.  Bi-Lo agreed to pay a premium of 74 percent more than the
average 20-day trading before the announcement, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The buyers of more than 60 U.S.
companies in the food-retail industry paid an average premium of
36 percent in the past five years, the data show.  Lone Star Funds , a Dallas-based private-equity firm, agreed
to acquire Bi-Lo from  Royal Ahold NV (AH) , a Netherlands-based
supermarket operator, in 2005. Bi-Lo filed for bankruptcy in
 South Carolina  in March 2009 with a maturity looming on a $260
million term loan. It emerged from Chapter 11 reorganization in
May 2010.  Bankruptcy Protection  Winn-Dixie filed for bankruptcy protection in 2005,
according to its  website . The supermarket chain emerged from
Chapter 11 in 2006 and its shares began trading on the Nasdaq
Stock Market.  Winn-Dixie’s board has approved the transaction and
recommends shareholders vote in its favor. The combined
company’s executive team and headquarters location will be
decided as the takeover moves closer to completion, according to
the statement. The deal is expected to close in the next 60 to
120 days.  William Blair & Co., Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG, Food
Partners and Alvarez & Marsal Inc. provided financial advice to
Bi-Lo. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. advised Winn-Dixie.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland in Chicago at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  