-- Speaker’s Move to Reject Senate Bill Puts Tax Cut in Limbo
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2011-12-19T19:32:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/boehner-says-house-will-vote-tonight-on-payroll-tax-cut-bill.html
A  payroll  tax-cut extension for
workers is in jeopardy because of disagreements between leaders
of the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives over how to
proceed before the tax break expires on Dec. 31.  The House will hold votes tonight to reject a Senate-backed
bill that would extend the two-percentage-point payroll tax cut
for two months, Speaker  John Boehner  said today. If the bill
doesn’t pass, the House will then appoint members to a
conference committee that would work out differences between the
House and Senate.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  is showing no interest in
a conference committee. The Nevada Democrat forged an agreement
last week with Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  and said
today negotiations won’t resume until the House passes that
deal.  “Senator McConnell and I negotiated a compromise at
Speaker Boehner’s request,” Reid said in a statement. “I will
not reopen negotiations until the House follows through and
passes this agreement that was negotiated by Republican leaders
and supported by 90 percent of the Senate.”  Tensions are escalating after the Senate passed the two-
month deal in an 89-10 vote on Dec. 17, with the understanding
that it would move quickly through the House this week. That
optimism faded yesterday when Boehner said a two-month deal
isn’t enough and that lawmakers should instead focus on
extending the tax break through 2012.  Still a Chance  Jack Lew, the White House budget director, said there’s
still a chance the House could pass the Senate’s version of the
payroll  tax-cut  legislation, though he isn’t optimistic about
that outcome. Lew said the administration expects
“overwhelming” support for the short extension from House
Democrats, and that could be combined with votes from some
Republicans for a majority vote for passage.  “They have time to do the right thing,” Lew said on
Bloomberg Television. “They should pass a two-month extension
and go back to work on something that will get extended for the
rest of the year.”  Boehner told reporters today that he raised concerns about
the two-month deal to his Senate counterparts “from the moment
I heard about it.”  “We expressed our reservations about what the Senate was
doing,” Boehner said.  Tensions Escalate  If the dispute isn’t resolved, the  payroll tax  on the first
$110,100 of wages will rise to 6.2 percent in January from the
current 4.2 percent rate. The payroll tax funds Social Security.
If Congress doesn’t act, emergency  unemployment  benefits are
also slated to expire at the end of the year and physicians who
are reimbursed through Medicare would receive lower payments
starting in January.  The insistence on a year-long deal is triggering criticism
from the Obama administration and some Senate Republicans.
Senator  Scott Brown , a Massachusetts Republican who is up for
re-election next year, said  House Republicans  are being
“irresponsible.”  “I appreciate their effort to extend these measures for a
full year but a two-month extension is a good deal when it means
we avoid jeopardizing the livelihoods of millions of American
families,” Brown said in a statement.  Senator  Richard Lugar , an Indiana Republican who supported
the two-month extension, said he is “hopeful” that the House
will pass the Senate bill tonight.  ‘Enormous Pressure’  “Speaker Boehner is under enormous pressure,” Lugar said.
“I’m hopeful there are a majority of Republicans and Democrats
who will proceed, because it seems to me this is the best for
the country as well as for all of the individuals affected.”  Reid initially pressed for a year-long deal, which would
cost more than $200 billion. He moved to a two-month bill after
it became clear last week that Democrats and Republicans
couldn’t agree on how to pay for a long-term package. Democrats
wanted to cover at least part of the bill’s cost by imposing a
new tax on income exceeding $1 million while Republicans focused
on paying for the measure by reducing the federal workforce and
freezing the pay of government employees.  Both parties agreed to raise the guarantee fees that
government-backed mortgage companies  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC) 
charge to lenders, which generated enough revenue to extend the
payroll tax cut and emergency unemployment benefits for two
months.  Pipeline Decision  There are also divisions on what policy provisions should
be included in the bill. Republicans were successful in
attaching language to the Senate measure that would require the
Obama administration to decide in 60 days whether to agree to an
expansion of the Keystone XL pipeline that stretches from  Canada 
to  Texas .  House Republicans are pressing for inclusion of other
policy priorities, including language that would ease
restrictions on industrial boilers and restructure the
unemployment system.  “I don’t believe it’s going to be that difficult to come
to an agreement that would make reforms in the unemployment
insurance program and do so, I think, in a fiscally responsible
way,” Boehner said today.  A payroll tax cut measure that passed the House on Dec. 13
would trim the maximum  unemployment benefits  from 99 weeks to 59
weeks, which House Democratic leader  Nancy Pelosi  has called
problematic.  Finger-Pointing  In a sign that the Obama administration and congressional
leaders are preparing for the possibility that the tax cut will
expire, there was a growing effort today to assign blame. White
House communications director  Dan Pfeiffer  said Boehner would be
held accountable if Congress can’t agree on an extension.  “This is entirely on Speaker Boehner and the House
leadership,” Pfeiffer said today on  MSNBC .  Boehner said the Senate is at fault for simply “punting
the problem into next year.”  The bill is HR 3630.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  