-- BofA’s Moynihan Predicts U.S. Economy Will Expand Slowly Again Next Year
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2011-12-19T20:50:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/bofa-s-moynihan-predicts-u-s-economy-will-expand-slowly-again-next-year.html
Bank of America Corp. Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said U.S. economic growth
will be slow next year and that companies aren’t using
stockpiles of cash to build their businesses.  “2012 will be another year that’s a grind in the
economy,” Moynihan, 52, said today at an economic outlook
conference held in Charlotte, North Carolina, where the company
is based. “Never have middle-market and large companies been as
profitable, had as much cash on their  balance sheet (SPX) , had as much
availability on their lines, but they haven’t done anything with
the money. They don’t feel the certainty of opportunity to make
big investments.”  Bank of America, the second-biggest U.S. lender by
deposits, is cutting costs amid stagnant revenue. The company
has been hurt by weak economic growth and concern that  Europe ’s
debt crisis will spread through the world’s financial system.
Shares of the firm dropped more than 60 percent this year and
fell below $5 today for the first time since March 2009.  The  U.S. economy  may expand about 2.1 percent next year,
Moynihan said.  Consumer spending  was “modestly encouraging” at
about 5 percent higher this month than the year-earlier period,
he said.  Employment  won’t improve “a lot” in 2012, he said.  Slower Growth  Moynihan’s comments follow an economic  report  last week
from Bank of America researchers that projected that the U.S.
economy will slow to 1 percent growth by the fourth quarter of
2012 as Europe enters recession.  The risk from a European sovereign default “is not what
people think,” Moynihan said. Bank of America had about
$14.6 billion at risk in  Greece , Ireland, Italy, Portugal and
Spain as of Sept. 30, compared with about $16.7 billion at the
end of the second quarter.  “It’s not the bank  balance sheets (BAC)  that’s really under
attack here for us or our competitors,” Moynihan said. “The
risk is that an economy which in the aggregate is as big as the
U.S. having a recessionary environment obviously pulls down
worldwide growth.”  Record low yields for U.S. Treasuries amid rising borrowing
costs for some European nations, a so-called flight to quality,
is another sign that “no one is taking risk,” Moynihan said.  There was “no question” that new international rules for
bank capital have lowered the lender’s leverage, Moynihan said.
An increase of 1 percent in  capital requirements  cuts the
ability to lend by about 10 percent, he said.  Achieving Balance  “The question is, did we get the balance right,” Moynihan
said, “Or did we swing the pendulum too far where we’ve
underleveraged financial services to have an effect on growth?”  Moynihan spoke as part of a panel that included  Jeffrey Lacker , president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, who
said impediments to economic growth will be “deeper and more
persistent than we thought a year ago.”  Obstacles Lacker cited include the oversupply of  housing , a
mismatch of skills between unemployed people and new jobs,
changes in tax policy and regulations and the “murky federal
budget outlook.”  Another panelist, Duke Energy Corp. CEO  Jim Rogers , drew
laughter by referencing Bank of America’s failed attempt to
charge some customers $5 per month to use their debit cards.  “Talking about the economy is so depressing,” Rogers
said. “I was about to pull some data from Bank of America, but
they wanted to charge me 5 bucks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  