-- Bond Insurers Hired Lobbyists as Lawmakers Argued Over Harrisburg’s Fate
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2011-12-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/bond-insurers-hired-lobbyists-as-lawmakers-argued-over-harrisburg-s-fate.html
Assured Guaranty Municipal (AGO) , which
backed the debt driving Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , into
insolvency, faced the prospect of forced losses in a bankruptcy,
so it invested in its future.  The Hamilton, Bermuda, bond insurer, which was on the hook
for $194.7 million, last December hired a lobbying firm in
Pennsylvania for the first time, according to state records.
Greenlee Partners met privately with lawmakers and Republican
Governor Tom Corbett. Legislators empowered Corbett to name a
financial receiver and prohibited the city from filing for
bankruptcy. Harrisburg, a capital city of 49,500 where 29
percent live in poverty, has no lobbyist.  “There was no one advocating for the city of Harrisburg,”
said Councilman Brad Koplinski. “The city did feel outgunned.”  As local governments cope with five years of declining
revenue, according to the  National League of Cities , insurers
who back their debt aim to contain losses. Defaults in the $3.7
trillion municipal-bond market totaled a record $24.6 billion in
2011, according to  Richard Lehmann , publisher of the Distressed
Debt Securities Newsletter. Bond insurers don’t want to get
stuck with the cost.  “Assured doesn’t want the investment world to think it’s
OK to nick the insurer,” said Alan Schankel, director of fixed-
income research at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.
“They don’t want the landslide to start.”  Lobbying Conduit  In Pennsylvania, Assured wasn’t alone in lobbying, for
which it paid $62,482 from last December through September,
state records say.  Ambac Assurance (ABKFQ) , which insures $64.9 million
of general-obligation debt on which Harrisburg nearly defaulted,
hired an advocate in June and spent $10,081 through September.
Lobbying cost  MBIA Inc. ’s National Public Finance
Guarantee $7,500 in September, according to state records.  Republican Senator Jeffrey Piccola, who led the legislative
response to Harrisburg’s fiscal struggles, said Assured’s
lobbyist provided details on the city’s debt deals.  “That’s one of the main roles of lobbyists, is to be a
conduit for information,” Piccola said in a telephone
interview. Since 2004, Greenlee donated $25,061 to Piccola’s
campaigns, according to the Helena, Montana-based National
Institute on Money in State Politics.  Church and Wal-Mart  Greenlee -- based a block from the Capitol -- represents
entities including the Archdiocese of Philadelphia, Wal-Mart
Stores Inc., and Range Resources Corp. It also works for Dauphin
County, which along with Assured is suing Harrisburg over missed
bond payments. The firm this year has recorded $104,883 in
lobbying expenses, including gifts to state officials, according
to its disclosures.  Representative Glenn Grell, a Republican who helped write 
the receivership bill, said while he talks ``to Greenlee folks 
all the time,'' he didn't discuss that measure. Since 2004, 
Greenlee has given $1,250 to his campaigns.  National in September hired Vincent Galko, a senior vice 
president for Washington-based  Mercury , a public relations and 
lobbying firm. Galko worked on campaigns for Republican
candidates, including Corbett, his company profile  says . Galko,
with Greenlee co-founder  Stanley Rapp , was named a top Republican
“Pennsylvania Influencer” in 2010 by Politics magazine.  Ambac’s lobbyist is Philip English, a former Republican
congressman for Pennsylvania who works for law firm Arent Fox 
LLP, based in  Washington .  Rapp, Galko and English didn’t return calls for comment.
Ashweeta Durani, an Assured spokeswoman, declined to comment on
its Pennsylvania lobbying, as did  Michael Fitzgerald  for Ambac
and  Kevin Brown  for National.  ‘Bad Precedent’  Harrisburg was trying to file for bankruptcy without
selling assets, cutting spending or raising taxes, which would
have been a “bad precedent” for insurers, said Mark Palmer, an
analyst for BTIG LLC, a New York firm that provides
institutional brokerage and fund services.  Left unanswered is whether it might have been the best
course for residents.  “This is a really good example of how the public interests
are overshadowed by a special interest,” said Edwin Bender,
executive director of the National Institute on Money in State
Politics. Legislators may lack “competing arguments or competing
information, when there’s so much information on something as
detailed as a bankruptcy from one side.”  Harrisburg’s troubles stem from a trash-to-energy facility
that doesn’t generate enough revenue to pay off the debt from an
overhaul and expansion. Harrisburg started skipping payments in
2009 and now owes $310 million, including penalties to  Assured
Guaranty  and Dauphin County, which made payments after
Harrisburg failed to meet its obligations.  Meeting the Governor  Rapp, Assured’s lobbyist, met with state consultants
assigned to craft a recovery plan for the city, with
administration officials, and with Corbett himself at the
governor’s residence in May, according to redacted e-mails
obtained by citizen group Debt Watch Harrisburg in a records
request. Greenlee gave $51,830 to Corbett’s campaigns since 2004.  “This was not a meeting simply between Stan Rapp and the
governor,” said Kelli Roberts, a spokeswoman for Corbett, in an
e-mail. “There were a number of people associated with Dauphin
County included in this specific meeting. It is not unusual for
the governor to listen to various sides of an issue and be open
to other opinions.”  Hurried Through  On June 21, Harrisburg City Council members voted 4-3 to
prepare for bankruptcy, and members of the Republican-dominated
Legislature acted. Amid a flurry of bills before the session
ended June 30, they barred Harrisburg from filing until July
2012.  The Harrisburg measures were “ramrodded through the
legislature,” said Koplinski, the councilman. “They did not
necessarily take the time to study the issue.”  Piccola said he learned about bankruptcy during
the year.  “The history of municipal bankruptcies is devastating for
those involved,” said Piccola. “Quite frankly, it would have
sent the wrong message about Harrisburg, the commonwealth and
the region.”  The City Council nonetheless authorized a bankruptcy filing
Oct. 11. While lawyers for Corbett and the insurers contested
it, legislators on Oct. 19 passed the law empowering Corbett to
name a receiver.  ‘Moneyed Interests’  The official, David Unkovic, will develop a recovery plan
and doesn’t need the consent of elected officials to implement
its provisions, such as asset sales.  Senator John P. Blake, a Democrat from Archbald, told
colleagues on the floor that the bill protected “moneyed
interests.”  The measure limited Harrisburg’s options while benefiting
bond insurers, he said in a telephone interview.  “If the city had declared bankruptcy, I’m not sure they
would have been made whole,” he said.  Roberts, Corbett’s spokeswoman, said that a Harrisburg
bankruptcy would have had an “ill effect” on the entire
region.  “The motivating factor behind the decisions and choices
made by Governor Corbett has always been, and will always be,
what is in the best interest of Pennsylvanians,” she wrote in
an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  