-- BP Pledges Another $15.5 Million to Tate, Royal Opera House
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2011-12-19T13:49:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/bp-pledges-15-5-million-for-sponsorship-of-u-k-galleries-museum-opera.html
BP Plc , which last year caused the
U.S.’s  worst-ever oil spill , today pledged another 10 million
pounds ($15.5 million) to four cultural institutions for the
next five years.  The energy company is backing programming at the Royal
Opera House, Tate Britain, the British Museum and the  National
Portrait Gallery , the four said in an e-mailed release and a
joint presentation at the British Museum today.  “Everywhere we operate, we should seek to contribute to
the wider community, and not only through our business
activities,”  Iain Conn , head of  BP Plc (BP/) ’s refining and marketing
unit, said in the release. “It is important to us that we make
a meaningful contribution to society here in the U.K.”  Ed Vaizey, the culture minister whose department announced
arts funding cuts earlier this year, welcomed the move. “For
more than 20 years, BP has led the way in business support for
the arts,” Vaizey said. “I am delighted that this will
continue over the next five years.”  BP’s U.K. arts sponsorships have been the target of
spectacular protests ever since the April 2010 explosion at BP’s
Deepwater Horizon rig in the  Gulf of Mexico  triggered an
environmental disaster that took months to clear up.  Oil Protest  In April this year, for the spill’s first anniversary, a
naked youth curled up on the floor of Tate Britain and had black
oil poured over him from green petrol cans bearing the BP logo.  In June 2010, activists spilled an oil-like liquid inside
and outside Tate Britain as guests arrived for the annual summer
party. The entrance was splattered with cans of treacle bearing
the BP logo. Another group smuggled cans inside, under their
skirts, and emptied them in the columned main hall.  The BP money announced today will go toward funding
exhibitions at the  British Museum , live big-screen opera relays
at the Royal Opera House, a rehang of the permanent collection
at Tate Britain, and the BP Portrait Award at the National
Portrait Gallery.  In recent years, BP has refrained from stating the value on
its funding of U.K. arts. In an earlier 2005 interview, Des
Violaris, BP’s U.K. director for arts and culture, said that
spending on arts was more than 1 million pounds ($1.5 million) a
year.  Since 2001, BP has backed the  Royal Opera House’s  big-
screen summer relays, which transmit live opera and ballet to
thousands of outdoor viewers nationwide. When the agreement was
first signed, BP paid a fee of 270,000 pounds a year for three
years. By 2005, the cost was 350,000 pounds per year, according
to the opera house’s development office at the time.  Great Court  At the  British Museum , BP is the longest-standing corporate
backer, committed since 1996 when it helped fund the museum’s
Great Court redevelopment. Three years later, BP gave money and
its name to a lecture theater.  BP has helped pay for exhibitions over the past decade
including “Hadrian: Empire and Conflict” (2008); “ Fra
Angelico  to Leonardo: Italian Renaissance Drawings” (2010); and
“Journey through the Afterlife: Ancient Egyptian Book of the
Dead” (which ended earlier this year.)  At what is now  Tate Britain , BP has, since 1990, helped
fund the presentation of the permanent collection, which is
regularly rehung to keep it fresh and appealing to the public.  At the  National Portrait Gallery , BP’s main focus is the BP
Portrait Award, open to anyone over 18. The sponsorship is now
in its second decade and open to anyone over 18. The show
connected with the award draws some 300,000 people a year to the
London venue, according to the BP website.  To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in  London   at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net . 