-- Brazil Likely to Miss 2011 Inflation Target, Central Bank Survey Shows
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2011-12-19T13:11:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/brazil-likely-to-miss-2011-inflation-target-central-bank-survey-shows.html
Brazil ’s inflation will exceed the
upper limit of its target range in 2011 for the first time in
eight years, a central bank survey showed.  Consumer prices will increase 6.52 percent this year,
breaching the 2.5 percent to 6.5 percent target, according to
the median forecast in a Dec. 16 central bank survey of about
100 economists published today. A week earlier, the forecast was
6.5 percent.  The central bank’s President Alexandre Tombini last month
cut the key  interest rate  for a third straight meeting, pushing
it to 11 percent, to shore up economic growth even as inflation
stayed above the target range. President Dilma Rousseff’s
administration has reduced taxes on  consumer goods  and foreign
capital and eased curbs on credit expansion as she targets 5
percent growth next year.  “It’s very bad news for the central bank,” Marilia Taveira, chief economist with Icatu Vanguarda Administracao,
said by telephone from  Rio de Janeiro . “We’ve seen a strong
will by the government to make the economy grow. Obviously that
will generate inflationary pressure.”  Tombini will also fail to meet the bank’s goal of bringing
inflation back to the 4.5 percent midpoint of the target next
year, the survey shows. Economists forecast inflation to ease to
5.39 percent next year, compared with the previous estimate of
5.42 percent.  Economic Growth  Clothing and personal expenses saw the biggest increases in
 Sao Paulo  in the month through the second week of December,
according to a consumer price index released today by the FIPE
economic research institute. The overall index climbed 0.49
percent.  Latin America’s largest economy will expand 2.92 percent
this year, down from a week earlier estimate of 2.97 percent,
the survey shows. Next year economists expect gross domestic
product to bounce back to growth of 3.4 percent.  Tombini began reducing interest rates in August, in
anticipation of a global downturn. Policy makers in Chile and
Mexico this month indicated they may follow suit, while the
 European Central Bank , Australia, Denmark and Norway all cut
rates this month.  Annual inflation slowed for a second straight month in
November, to 6.64 percent. It has been above the upper limit of
the target range since April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 