-- Ex-Deutsche Bank CEO Breuer to Pay $456,000 to End Trial Over Kirch Case
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2011-12-19T11:26:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/breuer-prosecutor-settle-criminal-trial-over-kirch-litigation.html
Former  Deutsche Bank AG  Chief
Executive Officer  Rolf Breuer  agreed to pay 350,000 euros
($456,000) to settle an attempted fraud case over testimony he
gave in 2003 in a suit brought by  Leo Kirch .  The Munich Regional Court ended the criminal trial today
after lawyers for both sides told the judges they had reached a
deal. The presiding judge in the case, Anton Winkler, called for
a settlement last week.  “We were permanently rotating between ‘maybe he did know
more’ and a potential acquittal, so it’s reasonable to end the
case now,” Winkler said when announcing the ruling. “Even if
we would have found guilt in this case, it would have been at
the very lowest level required for a conviction.”  Kirch, who died in July, was once one of  Germany ’s biggest
media tycoons and pursued civil lawsuits against Breuer, 74, and
Deutsche Bank seeking at least 3.3 billion euros. The lawsuits,
which continue after his death, claim Kirch’s company failed
after Breuer questioned its creditworthiness in a 2002 Bloomberg
TV interview.  The Kirch litigation has spawned a separate criminal probe
this year by Munich prosecutors over testimony Breuer gave in
February in another Kirch case. Current Deutsche Bank CEO  Josef Ackermann , chairman  Clemens Boersig  and former board member
Tessen von Heydebreck are also under investigation. Deutsche
Bank has denied wrongdoing by any of its executives.  2003 Testimony  Today’s criminal trial centered on a 2003 appeals court
hearing in one of the Kirch suits where Breuer said his TV-
interview comments were based on public information, not bank
data. Breuer said he “had never seen the Kirch credit file” at
the bank, nor correspondence with German financial regulators
concerning Kirch, according to the indictment.  Prosecutors charged Breuer with attempted fraud, claiming
he lied to avoid a conviction and that his initials are on a
copy of a September 2001 letter from the regulator asking about
risks related to the bank’s dealings with Kirch. They also cited
a supervisory board briefing as evidence Breuer knew details of
loans to Kirch Media.  The former executive didn’t admit any liability under the
settlement, which ends one of the numerous cases the Kirch
litigation prompted. Prosecutor Christiane Serini said the trial
developed in a way that made predicting the outcome difficult,
prompting her office to agree to settle. Breuer’s attorney, who
had sought an acquittal, said the agreement spares his client
the burden of additional months of trial. Breuer himself
declined to comment.  Bavaria, Charity  The state of Bavaria will receive 250,000 euros of Breuer’s
payment. Another 100,000 euros will go to various charities.  Had the trial continued and led to a conviction, Serini
said Breuer would probably only have had to pay a fine because
the probe was pending for years and because of the time since
the alleged misconduct. Also, either side could have appealed
the verdict which may have prolonged the case further, she said.  Before the trial was opened, Breuer refused to settle the
case by accepting a suspended one-year prison term and a fine
proposed by prosecutors, two people familiar with the issue who
declined to be identified said in May. That proposal would have
led to a formal conviction whereas today’s settlement doesn’t.  Testimony by Deutsche Bank Chief Risk Officer Hugo Banziger, the lender’s former Chief Counsel Hans-Dirk Krekeler
and other managers in the trial didn’t back the allegations
against Breuer. Judge Winkler told the parties last week that,
in light of the evidence taken so far, the sides should settle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Munich via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  