-- British Regulator Softens Mortgage Rules for Lenders’ Existing Customers
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2011-12-19T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/british-regulator-softens-mortgage-rules-for-lenders-existing-customers.html
Banks won’t have to apply tougher
mortgage rules to existing customers after the U.K. financial
watchdog softened proposals designed to rein in risky lending
practices.  Lenders may “waive some of the proposed affordability
requirements for existing borrowers,” the U.K.  Financial
Services Authority  said in a review of mortgage regulations
published today. The FSA is seeking views on the rules, which
would ban issuance of any new self-certified mortgages.  The rules “were in danger of locking creditworthy
borrowers out of the market,” Paul Broadhead, head of mortgage
policy at the U.K.’s Building Society Association, said in an e-
mailed statement. “Lenders will be able to take into account
borrowers repayment performance rather than a prescriptive set
of income and affordability criteria.”  The FSA has proposed plans to rein in the U.K.’s 1.2
trillion-pound ($1.87 trillion) mortgage market, blaming some
lending practices for exacerbating the banking crisis that
followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.
The watchdog is seeking views on the proposals for the  seventh
time  since the review began in 2009.  The deadline for input runs until Mar. 30, 2012, and the
FSA is due to release the final version of the rules later next
year. The full set of reforms are to be implemented in 2013.  The regulations require lenders to assess the impact of
rising interest rates in their mortgage-approval calculations
and ban interest-only mortgages in cases where the borrower
would have to rely on rising house prices to repay the loan.  “These are common sense proposals which serve the
interests of both lenders and borrowers,”  Adair Turner ,
chairman of the FSA, said in an e-mailed statement. “Borrowers
should not enter contracts which are only affordable on the
assumption that low initial  interest rates  will last forever.”  The  Bank of England  has kept benchmark interest rate at a
historic low of 0.5 percent since March 2009 to counter the
effects of the global financial crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  