-- Britain’s Future for Now Is Brighter in the European Union: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2011-12-19T00:06:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/britain-s-future-for-now-should-be-brighter-in-the-european-union-view.html
The European Union’s most reluctant
member is again at loggerheads with its partners. Patching up
the latest disagreement between the U.K. and the EU may be
harder than usual, but it’s in everybody’s interests to try.  British Prime Minister  David Cameron  certainly bungled his
diplomacy at the EU’s Dec. 8-9 summit. He antagonized the other
leaders needlessly, and got nothing in return. His error was not
so much in leaving the U.K. isolated. It was that he pressed the
wrong issue at the wrong time.  The summit’s main goal was to design a fiscal compact that
most euro-area governments saw as essential for stabilizing
their economies. Cameron demanded as the price of his support a
promise that  London  would retain control over regulation of
London’s financial district -- a separate issue. The other
leaders saw this as extortion and refused.  The disagreement means that the new compact can’t be
written into a new EU treaty, so at least 22 of the 27 EU
countries will form an intergovernmental agreement instead. This
is awkward because it raises difficulties over using EU
institutions to administer any plan. It’s also awkward for the
U.K., which may find itself in a minority of one.  Empty-Handed  Cameron obviously miscalculated. He thought other EU
countries would meet his demand -- as perhaps they should have,
because it was not in itself unreasonable -- but they resented
the ambush. Despite the applause for “standing up to Europe”
that greeted him when he returned home, Cameron came back empty-
handed.  Britain’s EU partners realize that its financial sector has
enormous economic weight. The U.K. hosts the world’s biggest
markets for foreign exchange and financial derivatives, and is
home to the biggest asset management business in Europe.
Financial services are a major employer. Alarm about planned EU
regulation is understandable, especially the proposed financial
transactions tax, which would fall disproportionately on the
U.K.  Cameron says his concern is not just to avoid excessive
regulation or taxation. In some areas, notably rules on  bank
capital , he wants to go further than other European governments.
This is not a straightforward matter of wishing to go easy on
your own producers.  The U.K. can’t expect to control every aspect of financial
regulation. It should always want to work closely with EU
regulators: In a financially integrated world, such cooperation
is essential. But reserving the right to defend a vital economic
interest if agreement cannot be reached is justified. Cameron
got the timing and diplomacy wrong, but his goals were right.  Had he chosen a better moment to press this issue, could
Cameron have cleared the way for consensus at the summit? Not at
all. If he had entered into serious discussion of the fiscal
pact, he would have had different and better grounds for
isolating Britain.  As we have argued, the plan is half-baked, fails to address
the immediate issue, and risks imposing a too-severe fiscal
system on the EU. Cameron would have asked for an opt-out, and
rightly. He might have found himself in a minority of one anyway
-- except, in this case, for a good reason.  The U.K. is perpetually ambivalent about its place in the
EU. It has often balked at the bloc’s bolder innovations -- most
of all the single currency. The falling-out at the summit was
hardly unprecedented: The EU has been a multitrack endeavor for
years.  In or Out?  The question is how much longer it can continue to be.
Closer fiscal and economic integration may eventually make it
impossible for the U.K. to stand slightly apart. Once and for
all, it might have to choose: in or out. If it ever comes to
that, Britain has an enormously difficult choice to make.  There are too many unknowns to answer the question today.
What would “out” really mean? Would Britain be on its own?
Could it expect to face trade barriers or other sanctions? Would
it be a friendly or unfriendly divorce? How would the global
trading system have evolved in the meantime? All one can say is
that the cost of separation would be huge -- a fact that British
public opinion often overlooks.  If these questions were prompted by the prospect of a full
political union, the U.K. would not be alone in wrestling with
them. There’s no clear appetite among EU governments and
electorates for a United States of  Europe . The danger is that
the EU will drift in that direction anyway, without careful
design or popular consent, in response to emergencies like the
present one.  Cameron owes his EU partners more goodwill than he showed
at the summit. But different countries will continue to desire
different levels of integration, and the EU needs to stay
flexible enough to accommodate that. Moves that infringe
national sovereignty shouldn’t be taken lightly or in a panic --
as they too often have been.  There should be no quarrel about one thing: Preserving the
EU as a single market and living political project is an
overriding national interest for all its members. Success means
never having to ask: “Is it time to go?” Once that question is
posed, there’s no happy answer.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 