-- Brussels Airlines, TAP Raided by EU Over Possible Collusion
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2011-12-19T12:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/brussels-airlines-tap-raided-by-eu-over-possible-collusion-1-.html
Brussels Airlines NV and Portuguese
carrier  TAP SGPS SA  were raided by European Union antitrust
regulators last week as part of an investigation into the
airlines’ cooperation agreements.  The European Commission  said  the Dec. 13 raids were
triggered by suspicions of “illegal collusion” between the
airlines, expanding an initial probe started in February that
focused on agreements for the sale of seats on flights between
Belgium and Portugal.  EU regulators are concerned “that the agreements may go
further than the sale of seats on routes where the two companies
are expected to compete, itself already a departure from the
more common form of code-sharing in the industry,” the
commission said in a statement on its website.  The expanded probe may complicate  Portugal ’s efforts to
sell state-owned TAP and comply with the conditions of a 78
billion-euro ($101 billion) bailout from the EU and the
 International Monetary Fund .  Deutsche Lufthansa AG ,  Europe ’s
second-largest airline, owns 45 percent of closely held Brussels
Airlines and the German carrier has an option to increase its
stake.  “Brussels Airlines is fully cooperating with the European
Commission and willingly provides all the requested
information,” said Geert Sciot, a spokesman for the carrier, in
an e-mail today.  TAP confirmed it was visited by EU and Portuguese
officials, according to a spokesman for Lisbon-based TAP who
can’t be identified according to the company’s policy.  The Brussels-based antitrust authority can impose fines of
as much as 10 percent of yearly sales if it finds evidence of
anticompetitive agreements between companies. The commission
last year fined  Air France-KLM Group (AF) ,  British Airways Plc (BAY)  and
nine other carriers a total of 799.4 million euros for
coordinating air-cargo fuel and security surcharges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 