-- California Gasoline Rises to Month-High on Planned Refinery Work
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2011-12-19T19:45:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/california-gasoline-rises-to-month-high-on-planned-refinery-work.html
California-blend gasoline in  Los
Angeles  strengthened to the highest level against futures in
more than a month on speculation that work at  Valero Energy
Corp. (VLO) ’s Wilmington refinery will tighten supplies next month.  Carbob in  Los Angeles  rose for the third day, increasing
3.25 cents to a premium of 12 cents a gallon versus gasoline
futures on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 1:23 p.m. New
York time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
largest gap since Nov. 10.  San Antonio-based Valero plans to idle a crude unit and a
coker at the 135,000-barrel-a-day  Wilmington  refinery in
 Southern California  for four weeks beginning next month,
according to the company’s website. Houston-based  ConocoPhillips (COP) 
also shut a products pipeline in Northern  California  Dec. 17
after flooding from a water main break.  “The pipeline has not been reopened,” Romelia Hinojosa, a
company spokeswoman in Houston, said in an e-mail. “We do not
have an estimated restart time at the moment.”  The shut line runs from Conoco’s 128,000-barrel-a-day  Rodeo 
refinery to the company’s terminal in Richmond, California,
Hinojosa said.  Carbob in  San Francisco  rose 3 cents to a premium of 8.25
cents versus futures, the highest level since Nov. 18.  Dallas-based  Alon USA Energy Inc. (ALJ)  is working on the
hydrocracker at the 70,000-barrel-a-day  Bakersfield  refinery,
which refines vacuum gasoil produced by Alon’s two other
California refineries in  Long Beach  and  Paramount . The unit will
remain offline during the work, Blake Lewis, an external
spokesman in Richardson,  Texas , said in an e-mail Dec. 16.  Unit to Shut  Alon planned to shut the unit for two weeks this month for
“minor revisions” that will allow it to process new crude
blends, the company said in a statement last month.  California-blend diesel, known as CARB diesel, in  Los
Angeles  rose for the sixth straight day, by 1 cent to a premium
of 1 cent against heating oil futures traded on the Nymex. The
same fuel in  San Francisco  climbed 0.75 cent to a premium of 2.5
cents versus futures.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland ,  Oregon ,
gained 1 cent to a discount of 1.5 cents to futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  