-- Canal Plus Agrees to Acquire 40% Stake in N-Vision, Owner of Poland’s TVN
-- B y   M a r t a   W a l d o c h   a n d   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2011-12-19T13:50:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/canal-plus-agrees-to-acquire-40-stake-in-n-vision-owner-of-poland-s-tvn.html
Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s  Canal Plus  agreed to
pay 230 million euros ($299 million) for 40 percent of N-Vision
BV, the owner of  TVN SA (TVN) , Poland’s largest television station.  The French media company has the option to take full
control of Amsterdam-based N-Vision, which owns 51 percent of
TVN, within four years after closing the transaction, probably
in the second half of next year, TVN said today in a regulatory
statement in Warsaw.  Canal Plus and TVN are also merging their Polish satellite
pay-TV businesses in a joint venture to compete with  Cyfrowy
Polsat SA (CPS) , Poland’s largest pay-television operator by
customers. The new merged platform, to be led by TVN Chief
Executive Officer Markus Tellenbach, will have 2.5 million
viewers and expand TVN’s reach in  Poland , the European Union’s
largest eastern member.  TVN’s pay-TV “N” platform valuation is “a very positive
information,” Dominik Niszcz, an analyst at Raiffeisen
Centrobank AG, said by phone from Vienna today. “TVN disposes a
company that reported losses and in exchange it gets a venture
from which it will have dividends.”  Canal Plus will have 51 percent in the new company, while
TVN will hold 32 percent and Polish cable television provider
UPC will have 17 percent. TVN’s stake is valued at about 1.9
billion zloty, it said. The merged unit will pay a dividend
amounting to 75 percent of net profit.  Fair Market Price  Canal Plus will exercise its options at a fair market
value, Chief Executive Officer Bertrand Meheut said at a
conference in Warsaw today.  The N-Vision deal won’t trigger the early redemption of TVN
bonds or a mandatory tender offer for TVN’s free float of
shares, the company said in a separate e-mailed statement.
Deutsche Bank was TVN’s financial adviser in the deal.  The yield on TVN’s euro bonds due in 2018 was at a record
high of 9.48 percent today, climbing from 7.14 percent on Oct.
28, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  TVN jumped as much as 7.3 percent, and traded up 5.8
percent at 9.6 zloty, the highest in more than a week, as of
12:19 p.m. in Warsaw, valuing the company at 3.3 billion zloty.  TVN, which will book a non-cash profit of 700 million zloty
($203 million) from the Canal Plus agreement, is the most
indebted non-financial company in Warsaw’s benchmark WIG20
Index. Its net debt amounts to 2.9 times its equity, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  TVN’s N unit holds the rights to show the UEFA soccer
Champions League games in Poland through 2015. Canal Plus’s unit
has the rights to show the English Premier League, the Spanish
Primera Liga, the Italian Seria A and  France ’s Ligue 1 soccer in
Poland in addition to the Polish Ekstraklasa soccer league,
speedway and basketball events.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net ;
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marta Waldoch at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net  