-- Canada’s Dollar Fluctuates as Crude Oil and Stocks Reverse Earlier Gains
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2011-12-19T22:08:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/canada-s-dollar-rises-from-almost-december-low-as-crude-oil-trades-higher.html
Canada ’s dollar swung between gains
and losses versus its U.S. counterpart as crude oil and stocks
reversed earlier advances, muddying the outlook for currencies
tied to growth.  The Canadian currency fluctuated after falling 2.1 percent
last week, the most in five days since Nov. 4, on speculation
European leaders are failing to contain the region’s debt
crisis. The currency, also known as the loonie for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, pared an advance even as Canada’s
statistics agency said wholesale sales rose in October more than
economists forecast.  “Canada will be influenced by and large by the global
backdrop,” said  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign
exchange at  National Bank of Canada  in Toronto, in a telephone
interview. “Until we see any kind of breakout price action --
either coming from the euro below its lows or by way of any kind
of relief rally that would come from equity markets -- I suspect
dollar-Canada is going to trade within this relatively tight
range.”  Canada’s currency was little changed at C$1.0389 per U.S.
dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. Earlier in the day it declined to
C$1.0415, the weakest level since Dec. 14, when it reached the
low for the month of C$1.0424. It rose as much as 0.5 percent
and was up against most of its major counterparts. One Canadian
dollar buys 96.26 U.S. cents.  Crude oil for January delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  rose 55 cents to $94.08 a barrel after climbing 1
percent and falling 1.1 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
fell 1.2 percent after gaining 0.4 percent.  Government bonds  rose for a sixth session, pushing 10-year
yields down three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
1.84 percent.  Yields  touched 1.837 percent on Dec. 16, the
record low. The bonds yielded three basis points more than
equivalent-maturity  U.S. debt , compared with eight basis points
at the end of November.  ‘Trend Reversal’  “A rally in European and U.S. equities attracted interbank
selling interest in the U.S. dollar versus the Canadian
dollar,” said  George Davis , chief technical analyst for fixed-
income and foreign-exchange strategy in Toronto at Royal Bank of
Canada, in a note to clients today.  An hourly close below C$1.0338 would “trigger a bearish
short-term trend reversal” for the  U.S. dollar  that would
“expose C$1.0283 and C$1.0227 as secondary downside targets,”
according to Davis.  Canadian  wholesale sales  rose 0.9 percent to C$49.2 billion
($47.5 billion) in October in a sixth straight monthly gain led
by rising shipments of motor vehicles and machinery, Statistics
Canada said today. The increase exceeded all 13 forecasts in
Bloomberg News survey of economists, which had a median
projection for a 0.1 gain.  ‘Consolidation Mode’  “We’re still in consolidation mode from late last week,”
said Blake Jespersen, director of foreign exchange in Toronto at
Bank of Montreal, in an e-mail message. “The tone appears a bit
better today.”  Canada’s  consumer price index  rose 2.9 percent in November
from a year earlier, matching the prior month’s increase,
according to the median forecast of 22 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Statistics Canada  is scheduled to release the
report at 7 a.m. tomorrow in Ottawa.  The agency is scheduled to release its retail-sales figures
the next day and the gross domestic product report two days
after that.  “It’s an important week for Canadian data,” said Bank of
Montreal’s Jespersen. “We are entering one of the quietest
periods of the year, so it will be interesting to see if anyone
notices.”  The loonie has depreciated 2.8 percent in 2011, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, a gauge of
10 developed-nation currencies. The greenback has appreciated 2
percent, and the yen has added 4.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  