-- Canada Laggard in Recovery as Loonie Deters New Investment: Cars
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2011-12-19T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/canada-laggard-in-auto-recovery-as-loonie-helps-deter-new-investment-cars.html
Canada  is missing on the U.S. auto
industry’s recovery, and the reasons point to the companies’ new
financial discipline as well as the strengthening loonie.  Automakers led by  Ford Motor Co. (GM)  are planning to invest
$13.3 billion in U.S. plants over the next four years, which
will leave little left for Canada. The Dearborn, Michigan-based
automaker this year closed an Ontario factory that had made the
Ford Crown Victoria police cruiser and Lincoln Town Car.  Investment in Canada’s auto plants may fall to $1.2 billion
this year, the lowest since the mid-1980s and 62 percent less
than the past decade’s average, according to Bank of  Nova
Scotia . The U.S. and  Mexico  are leading the rebound after a 35
percent drop in North American auto investment since its 2007
high, according to Carlos Gomes, a Scotiabank economist.  “You have stabilization in the U.S., you have plants in
the next couple of years for Mexico and you’re not really seeing
anything with respect to Canada yet,” Gomes, who is based in
Toronto, said in a phone interview. “We could become somewhat
of a laggard in the sector.”  Ontario, Canada’s largest province by population, became
the biggest North American producer of vehicles in 2003, taking
the spot from Michigan, the home base for General Motors Co.,
 Ford (F)  and Chrysler Group LLC as those companies cut jobs and
production capacity. Declining investment in Canada stems from
the U.S. companies cutting U.S. labor costs and Canada’s surging
currency.  CAW Negotiations  The lower spending in Canada precedes the Canadian Auto
Workers contract negotiations with GM, Ford and Chrysler next
year. The Toronto-based CAW has resisted the givebacks the
Detroit-based United Auto Workers union has provided. Ford
already has retrenched to one assembly plant in Canada after its
St. Thomas, Ontario, factory shut in September. GM plans to make
two models in the U.S. that are built in Canada beginning next
year.  “We’re sitting really on the edge of our chairs wondering
how the CAW negotiations will play out,” Dennis DesRosiers,
president of Toronto-based DesRosiers Automotive Consultants,
which specializes in the Canadian  auto industry , said in a phone
interview.  GM said Dec. 16 it will continue to assemble its Chevrolet
Impala sedan at its Oshawa, Ontario, complex, investing C$68
million ($65.6 million) and securing 350 jobs. The automaker
announced in May that Impala output would be added to its
Detroit-Hamtramck plant, which also produces the Chevrolet Volt
plug-in hybrid car, next year.  Last month, the company said its Spring Hill,  Tennessee ,
factory will start making Chevy Equinox SUVs, which also are
made in Oshawa and Ingersoll, Ontario.  U.S. Plants  Commitments for U.S. plant investments by 2015 include $6.3
billion by Ford, $4.5 billion by Chrysler and $2.5 billion by
GM, according to the UAW, which ratified contracts with the
companies in September and October. Honda Motor Co., Nissan
Motor Co. and Mazda Motor Corp. also are adding capacity in
Mexico through 2014 as they seek relief from the strong yen.  Canada has maintained production of between 15.5 percent
and 17 percent of vehicles assembled in  North America  since
1995, including plants owned by Honda and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,
according to DesRosiers Automotive Consultants.  The country contributed to the bailouts of Detroit-based GM
and Chrysler as part of their 2009 bankruptcies. Terms of the
rescues included GM’s commitment to keeping at least 16 percent
of its North America production in Canada and  Auburn Hills ,
Michigan-based Chrysler’s agreement to maintain at least  20
percent  of its output and product-related investments in the
nation. GM’s Canada operation accounted for 18.9 percent of the
company’s North American output last year while Chrysler was
30.2 percent.  Pressure on CAW  “I don’t think I’ve ever been at meeting where the company
actually congratulated us for our productivity, our quality, or
meeting their sales objectives,” Ken Lewenza, president of the
CAW, said in a phone interview. “It’s always about ‘You know,
you’re not the most favorable place to invest today.’”  GM, Ford and Chrysler production workers are paid about
C$33 ($31.78) an hour while skilled-trades workers receive about
C$40 an hour, said Jim Stanford, a CAW economist.  Canada’s manufacturing sector no longer enjoys favorable
exchange rates compared with the U.S. Canada’s loonie has
appreciated to near-parity with the  U.S. dollar . One Canadian
dollar bought 96 U.S. cents at the end of last week, up from 64
U.S. cents a decade earlier.  Two-Tier Wages  The UAW agreed in 2007 to a two-tier wage system with U.S.
automakers that paid new workers about half the hourly rate of
senior laborers. The union negotiated raises for those new
members this year.  The CAW’s Lewenza has called such a system “divisive” and
said he won’t support a similar arrangement in Canada.  “You cannot have a strong currency, you cannot have an
uncompetitive wage rate and then expect Chrysler or all the
other carmakers to keep on making cars in this country and be
disadvantaged,”  Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of
Chrysler,  told  the Globe and Mail on Nov. 22 in Toronto.
Chrysler is majority owned by  Fiat SpA (F) , which Marchionne also
heads.  Canada’s superiority in health-care costs for hourly
workers relative to the U.S. also has diminished since 2007,
when the UAW agreed to establish Voluntary Employee Beneficiary
Association funds, which removed the cost of retirees’ medical
benefits from GM, Ford and Chrysler.  ‘Stark Reality’  The CAW is “faced with a stark reality,” DesRosiers said.
“If you don’t agree to two tiers, you slowly hollow out your
membership base. If you don’t play the game, we’ve got a global
auto industry that can go anywhere around the world.”  Canada may contract to 10 auto plants that will have
capacity to make 2.2 million vehicles by 2017, less than the
dozen factories capable of making 2.58 million this year,
according to IHS Automotive. The 2.58 million figure includes
the now-closed Ford plant in St. Thomas.  The U.S. will maintain its 56 auto plants in that span
while gaining capacity, and Mexico may add five factories and
boost capacity by almost one third, according to the Lexington,
Massachusetts-based researcher.  In part because of Canada assembly workers’ higher wages,
automakers have been reluctant to make smaller vehicles in the
country, DesRosiers said. Most of the models produced are larger
vans and sport-utility vehicles such as GM’s GMC Terrain,
Chrysler’s Town & Country minivan and Ford’s Flex wagon, which
have larger price tags and can better absorb higher labor costs.  Fuel Economy  President  Barack Obama  has proposed fuel-economy standards
that would require the average vehicle sold in the U.S. to be
rated 54.5 mpg by the Environmental Protection Agency. The
regulations should “scare the bejesus out of both the U.S.
industrial north and Canada,” because those regions aren’t
competitive with Mexico in making small cars, DesRosiers said.  “If we do see that Canada’s auto sector begins to lag
behind, then it obviously has significant implications for the
growth potential of Ontario,” said Scotiabank’s Gomes, who in a
Nov. 29 research note called auto-investment trends in Canada a
“red flag.”  The auto industry accounts for more than 20 percent of
manufacturing in Ontario. The province may fall behind  Michigan 
in annual vehicle production next year, Gomes said.  “It will be a dogfight going forward in terms of who
ultimately is the largest vehicle-producing region,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  