-- Potash Corp. Seeks Approval to Boost Israel Chemicals Stake
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2011-12-19T21:10:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/canada-s-potash-seeks-to-enlarge-ownership-in-israel-chemicals.html
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. (POT) ,
the world’s largest fertilizer producer by market value, is
seeking approval to increase its holding in Israel Chemicals
Ltd. to as much as 25 percent.  Potash Corp., owner of 13.9 percent of Israel Chemicals,
applied to Israel’s Ministry of Finance to raise its stake,  Bill Johnson , a spokesman for the Canadian company, said today in an
e-mailed statement.  “If the application is granted, it will give us one more
option in our use of free cash flow when we are making
investment decisions,” Johnson said. “It is not a foregone
conclusion that we would acquire any additional shares, but we
are seeking the flexibility.”  Potash Corp., the second-largest shareholder in Israel
Chemicals, fended off a $40 billion takeover bid from  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  last year. The Israeli company known as ICL, which
extracts minerals from the  Dead Sea  to make fertilizer, reported
an 80 percent jump in third-quarter net income after prices
rose. An additional 11.1 percent stake in ICL would be valued at
$1.4 billion.  “This is good news for ICL shareholders because you have a
big buyer looking to buy shares,” Guil Bashan, an analyst at
IBI-Israel Brokerage & Investments Ltd. in  Tel Aviv , said by
phone.  Shares Gain  ICL rose 2.4 percent to close at 36.70 shekels in Tel Aviv
trading, valuing it at about $12.3 billion, after earlier
gaining as much as 6.6 percent. Potash fell 1.4 percent to close
at C$40.03 in Toronto.  Prices for potash increased in the U.S. last quarter
because of rising demand for the form of potassium used by
farmers to make plants more resistant to drought. Prices
averaged 27 percent more in the third quarter compared with a
year earlier, according to figures compiled by Bloomberg
Industries. ICL  derives (ICL)  about 19 percent of its revenue from
 North America .  ICL doesn’t comment on matters relating to its
shareholders, the company said in a statement. Israel’s Finance
Ministry spokesman Boaz Stembler earlier said that Potash Corp.
was seeking to increase its holding.  Israel Corp. is the largest shareholder of ICL with a 52
percent stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story: Jonathan
Ferziger at   jferziger@bloomberg.net ; Amanda
Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  