-- Canada October Wholesale Trade Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2011-12-19T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/canada-october-wholesale-trade-report-text-.html
The following is the text
of  Canada 's wholesale trade report for October from
 Statistics Canada .  Wholesale sales increased 0.9% to $49.2 billion in
October, with the growth concentrated in the western
provinces.  In volume terms, wholesale sales increased 0.5% in
October.  Wholesale sales increase in October  Subsectors: Widespread increases in wholesale sales  In October, six out of seven subsectors, representing
85% of wholesale trade, reported increases.  The largest increase in dollar terms came in the
machinery, equipment and supplies subsector, where sales
rose 1.0% to $10.5 billion in October, continuing their
upward trend. Three out of four industries that compose
this subsector reported increases.  Sales in the food, beverage and tobacco products
subsector advanced 1.1% during the month. This gain was
based solely on the strength of the food products
industry, which rose 1.4% in October. This was the
industry's ninth monthly increase since January 2011.  The miscellaneous subsector increased 1.4%, mainly as a
result of higher sales in the agricultural supplies and
the chemical (except agricultural) and allied products
industries.  The only decrease in sales in October occurred in the
personal and household goods subsector (-0.4%). Declines
were observed in three of the component industries,
including the pharmaceuticals and pharmacy supplies 
(-1.3%) and the textile, clothing and footwear (-3.7%)
industries.  Provinces: Sales increase concentrated in the West  Wholesale sales were up in seven provinces in October,
with all four western provinces registering sales
increases.  In dollar terms, wholesalers in Alberta and
Saskatchewan contributed the most to the national growth,
followed by British Columbia and Manitoba.  Sales in Alberta increased 3.9%, rising for a sixth
consecutive month. Higher sales were widespread among the
subsectors.  In Saskatchewan, sales grew by 8.4% in October, a
fourth increase in six months. Advances were observed
across a number of subsectors.  Ontario, where sales were down 0.2%, reported the
largest decrease in dollar terms.  Wholesalers in  Quebec  reported a 0.4% decline in
October. Sales have been relatively flat since May 2011.
Weaker sales in the personal and household goods subsector
contributed to the decline in October.  Inventories continue to rise  Inventories edged up 0.2% to $57.8 billion in October,
posting their 10th consecutive monthly increase.  Inventories rose in 13 of the 25 wholesale industries.
Wholesalers in the motor vehicle industry (+3.2%) and the
construction, forestry, mining and industrial machinery,
equipment and supplies industry (+1.1%) reported the
largest gains in dollar terms.  The inventory-to-sales ratio declined from 1.18 in
September to 1.17 in October.  The inventory-to-sales ratio is a measure of the time
in months required to exhaust inventories if sales were to
remain at their current level.  Inventories edge up in October  Note to readers  All the data in this release are seasonally adjusted
and in current dollars, unless otherwise noted.  Wholesale sales expressed in volume are calculated by
deflating current dollar values using import and industry
product price indexes. Since many of the goods sold by
wholesalers are imported, fluctuations in the value of the
Canadian dollar can have an important influence on the
prices of goods bought and sold by wholesalers.  The wholesale sales series in chained (2002) dollars is
a chained Fisher volume index with 2002 as the reference
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  