-- Cash Punished as S&P 500 Spenders Beat Savers
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2011-12-19T21:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/cash-punished-as-s-p-500-spenders-beat-savers-by-21-amid-rising-buybacks.html
In a year when American companies
piled up record amounts of cash, the worst stocks were the
savers and the best gave the money back to investors with
dividends and buybacks.  Companies that hoarded cash such as  CareFusion Corp. (CFN) ,
 Western Digital  Corp. and 18 other members of the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index lost an average 15 percent in 2011, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 40 that repurchased the most
stock or offered the biggest dividends climbed 5.7 percent, led
by DirecTV and  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) , the data show.  Bulls say gains in companies that returned money will help
unlock almost $1 trillion of cash that chief executive officers
have been hoarding for three years.  Thomas Lee , the chief U.S.
equity strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co., says distributions
should increase 28 percent to $1.1 trillion into next year.
Bears say dividends and buybacks will be insufficient to keep
the rally going as mandated budget cuts curb growth.  “Investors are more yield-hungry than ever before,” said
Jacob de Tusch-Lec, a London-based  money manager  at Artemis
Investment Management LLP in  London , which oversees $17 billion.
“Because of the market we are in, investors have flocked to
companies that are the best in the world at what they do,
generate excess cash and have a proven record of returning
money.”  Default Concern  The  S&P 500   fell (SPX)  2.8 percent to 1,219.66 last week, the
first decline since November. Concern that countries in Europe
face defaults pushed the index down 11 percent since it reached
an almost three-year high of 1,363.61 on April 29. While the
index has lost 3 percent for 2011, it has swung from an 8.4
percent gain in April to a 13 percent loss in October. The S&P
500 slumped 1.2 percent oday.  Companies built reserves as stocks sank and forecasts for
growth in U.S. gross domestic product next year slipped from 3.3
percent in February to as low as 2 percent in October. Cash at
companies excluding banks, utilities, truckers and automakers
rose to a record $998.9 billion last quarter, according to S&P.  Hoarding money hasn’t paid off in the market. A group of 20
companies that increased cash and short-term investments the
most in 2010 lost 15 percent this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The data excludes companies that
increased buybacks or dividends in 2011 or spent the most on
capital investments last year.  CareFusion Cash  CareFusion boosted cash to the highest level since it was
spun off in 2009 and Western Digital’s climbed for the past five
quarters, data compiled by Bloomberg show. CareFusion, a medical
supply company, hasn’t bought back shares or paid a dividend to
public shareholders, and hasn’t announced plans to do so this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The stock has
fallen 6.4 percent since Dec. 31.  Western Digital, a maker of disk drives and networking
products,  beat profit estimates (WDC)  for the past two quarters and
raised its quarterly revenue forecast this month. The shares,
which trade at a 32 percent discount to their average price-
earnings ratio in the last 10 years, declined 8.7 percent this
year. MetroPCS Communications Inc., down 34 percent in 2011,
raised cash to a record level in the second quarter.  At the same time, the 20 nonfinancial S&P 500 companies
that spent the most to repurchase shares last year advanced 6.3
percent. Those that had the biggest dividend increases relative
to their operating cash level rose 5.1 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. There are 312 nonfinancial companies
in the S&P 500 that pay dividends, and all but six raised or
maintained them in the past year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  DirecTV (DTV) , Reynolds  DirecTV, the largest U.S. satellite-television provider,
bought back $1.45 billion of shares in the third quarter, part
of a $6 billion program announced in February. Reynolds boosted
its quarterly dividend payout twice in 2011. The companies
rallied 5.4 percent and 25 percent, respectively.  The S&P 500 is trading at 12.3 times estimated 2011
earnings, or 30 percent below its 10-year average price-earnings
ratio, data compiled by Bloomberg show. More than 1,000 U.S.
companies authorized buybacks this year, according to Birinyi
Associates Inc. At $520 billion announced through last week,
2011 is on track for the third-biggest year for repurchases on
record, the data show.  “Companies that are just building cash, they’re looked at
as not taking any risk,”  Eric Green , a Philadelphia-based fund
manager at Penn Capital Management, which oversees about $6
billion, said in a telephone interview Dec. 15. “If they’re not
going to expand, they might as well be paying it out.”  Debt Crisis  Speculation Europe’s debt crisis will spur a recession sent
investors to the relative safety of fixed income in 2011. U.S.
Treasuries advanced 9.9 percent and investment-grade bonds
returned 7.3 percent, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
data. Unemployment that reached 23 percent in Spain and a  budget
deficit  in Greece totaling 1.4 times gross domestic product
heightened concern the region’s economy will contract.  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  swung between gains and
losses of more than 400 points over four days in August after
Congress and President Barack Obama battled over borrowing
limits that prompted S&P to downgrade the government’s AAA
credit rating for the first time. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Volatility Index stayed above 30 between August and
September as consumer confidence fell to a two-year low and U.S.
unemployment was at or above 9 percent for seven months.  Manufacturing, Unemployment  While bonds climbed, equity investors snapped up companies
returning money to shareholders amid signs the worst is over for
the  U.S. economy . Manufacturing in the Philadelphia region
expanded in December at the fastest rate in eight months after
plunging to a 29-month low in August, the  Federal Reserve  said
Dec. 15. First-time claims for  unemployment insurance  slipped to
the lowest level since 2008, the height of the worst recession
since the 1930s, the Labor Department said Dec. 15.  Another contraction may send investors back to companies
that have piled up cash, according to Federated Investors Inc.’s
 Lawrence Creatura . While U.S. jobless claims fell to a three-
year low last week, concern European leaders are failing to stem
the two-year debt crisis sent the euro to the biggest weekly
decline since September.  “The question investors have to ask themselves is, what
will be the state of the global economy next year?” Creatura, a
Rochester, New York-based fund manager at Federated Investors,
which oversees $350 billion, said in a Dec. 15 telephone
interview. “That will define which companies you should own.”  Earnings Beat Projections  Buybacks and dividends aren’t keeping up with profits
compared with 2007 distributions and should increase by about
$250 billion into next year, according to Lee at JPMorgan. S&P
500 earnings have beat analyst projections for an 11th straight
quarter and are projected to end 2011 at $98.89 a share, about
18 percent higher than in 2007, the last year before the
financial crisis. according to analyst forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Corporate cash return is not anywhere close to prior
highs,” he said. “The implication is that corporates are
likely to vastly ramp up cash return.”  The world’s largest economy shrank 5.1 percent from the
fourth quarter of 2007 to the second quarter of 2009, the most
of any recession since the 1930s. General Electric Co., once the
biggest company by market value, shocked investors on Feb. 27,
2009, by cutting its payout for the first time since 1938 after
its shares plunged 78 percent in less than 17 months.  GE Dividend  GE, now the ninth-largest U.S. company, raised its
 quarterly (GE)  dividend 13 percent on Dec. 9, the fourth increase in
less than two years. The stock gained 3.3 percent since Chief
Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  told shareholders Dec. 13 that
the company should generate $30 billion in cash to spend on
acquisitions, payouts and buybacks over the next three years.  “Companies are looking at their uses of what are pretty
hefty cash reserves, and they’re voting with their checkbooks
that they think their shares are undervalued,” said  Tom Murphy ,
a money manager at Columbia Management in Minneapolis, who
oversees $23 billion of investment-grade credit. “They’re
saying that’s the best opportunity they have.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  