-- Chilean Peso Weakens as Copper Declines, Dollar Gains on Asia
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2011-12-19T17:24:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/chilean-peso-weakens-as-copper-declines-dollar-gains-on-asia.html
Chile ’s peso depreciated as copper
fell on speculation demand from  China  may ease and as concern of
greater instability in Asia following the death of North Korea’s
leader increased demand for the dollar as a haven.  The peso weakened 0.6 percent to 520.75 per  U.S. dollar 
from 517.6 on Dec. 16. The Bloomberg JPMorgan Latin American
Currency Index slid 0.3 percent.  Home prices  in China had their worst performance of the
year last month, with more than half of the 70 biggest cities
monitored recording declines. The country is the biggest buyer
of copper, which makes up more than half of Chile’s exports and
is used in new homes and cars. The dollar gained after the death
of North Korea’s  Kim Jong Il  prompted concern that a chaotic
transition of power would threaten regional security.  “We’re following copper and the euro,” said Cristian Donoso, a currency trader at Banchile Inversiones in Santiago.
“Stocks and commodities are weak and the dollar is gaining
ground against its counterparts.”  Copper for March delivery slid 1.2 percent.  Offshore investors in the Chilean peso forwards market
increased their bets against the currency to $5.5 billion on
Dec. 15, the biggest short position in the peso so far this
month, according to central bank data published today.  Inflation-linked central bank bond yields fell. The yield
on the bank’s 3 percent bonds due in 2021 fell four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 2.49 percent, the lowest
since Oct. 25. The yield on similar five-year bonds fell three
basis points to 2.40 percent, the lowest since Nov. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  