-- China Stocks Fall on Home Price Slump, North Korea Leader Death
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-19T09:09:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/china-s-stocks-slide-extend-losses-to-7th-week-on-home-price-slump-fitch.html
China’s stocks  retreated, pushing
the benchmark index towards a seventh week of losses, after  home
prices  posted their worst performance this year and North Korean
leader Kim Jong Il died.  China Cosco Holdings Co., which ships goods to  Europe , slid
1.9 percent after  Fitch Ratings  warned it may cut the credit
ratings of European nations.  China Life Insurance Co. (601628) , which
owns shares in  Chongqing Brewery Co. (600132) , fell to a two-month low as
a plunge in the beermaker’s shares may hurt investment returns.
 BYD Co. , partly owned by Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway
Inc, climbed the most in a month after the government said a
vehicle tax may not apply to autos using alternative energy.  “The Chinese economy will continue to slow down in the
first and second quarters next year and investors’ confidence is
weak,” said Dai Ming,  fund manager  at Shanghai Kingsun
Investment Management & Consulting Co. “The North Korea news
may boost geopolitical tensions. It is unknown what policies the
younger generation will enact as they come to power.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 6.61 points, or 0.3
percent, to 2,218.24 at the close. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  lost 0.2
percent to 2,384.41. Stocks trimmed losses of as much as 2.7
percent in the final hour of the trading. The  Bloomberg China-US
55 Index , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese
companies, added 0.8 percent in  New York  on Dec. 16.  Asian stock markets extended declines, with South Korea’s
Kospi index falling 3.4 percent, after the Korean Central News
Agency reported Kim died on Dec. 17 of exhaustion brought on by
a sudden illness. China is North Korea’s closest ally.  ‘Not Loved’  “Although he was not loved, maybe his disappearance just
led to fears of even greater instability,” said Gerald Ambrose,
who manages $2 billion in assets as managing director at
Aberdeen Asset Management Sdn. in  Kuala Lumpur . “There might be
some concerns about what China’s intentions are now that  Kim
Jong Il  is gone. Kim Jong Il’s son was being groomed for
leadership but he didn’t show a lot of charisma.”  The Shanghai Composite slid 3.9 percent last week, dropping
for a sixth week, as reports showed  money supply  grew the least
in a decade in November and manufacturing may contract for a
second month. It has tumbled 21 percent in 2011, sending the
estimated price-earnings ratio to a record low, as shipments to
Europe slowed because of the region’s debt crisis and the
government raised  interest rates  to curb inflation.  Chinese equities are at their “darkest time” and unlikely
to see “big rebounds” in the short term as a lack of
confidence overshadows “very low” valuations, according to
Jing Ulrich, chairman of global markets for  China  at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. The government may ease monetary policy next year in
a “limited scale,” she said at a briefing in Beijing.  Property Curbs  China may start to “slowly” relax property curbs from the
third quarter next year with property developers facing
difficulties over the next six months, she said.  A gauge of property stocks rose 0.3 percent even as 22
companies dropped and eight advanced. Developer Shanghai Duolun
Industry Co. slid 10 percent to 7.76 yuan. Poly Real Estate
Group Co. gained 0.9 percent to 10.07 yuan.  Building material-related stocks fell on concern a slump in
the  property market  will curtail construction demand. Anhui
Conch Cement Co., China’s biggest cement maker, fell 0.5 percent
to 15.11 yuan.  Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. (600019) , the listed unit of the
second-biggest steelmaker, lost 0.2 percent to 4.71 yuan.  Chinese new home prices dropped from the previous month in
49 cities, or more than half of the 70 biggest cities monitored
by the government, compared with 33 posting decreases in
October, the national statistics bureau said in a statement on
its website yesterday. Only five cities had gains in home
prices, according to the statement.  Shanghai’s new home average price fell 21 percent in the
week ended Dec. 18 from the previous week, property consultant
Shanghai UWin Real Estate Information Services Co. said today.  Yuan Position  The nation will continue to “strictly” implement measures
to curb speculative demand in the property market, the Beijing
News reported yesterday, citing Zhang Ping, chairman of the
National Development and Reform Commission.  Chinese central bank data signaled that capital flowed out
of the nation for a second month in November. Yuan positions at
financial institutions from foreign-exchange purchases were down
27.9 billion yuan ($4.39 billion) in November, People’s Bank of
China data show. The figure declined a combined 52.8 billion
yuan in the past two months, the first back-to-back drop since
at least 2000.  China is unlikely to enact a large stimulus package amid a
“healthy correction,” in economic growth, said  Fan Gang , a
former adviser to the central bank, over the weekend.  Fitch Warning  Fan described the recent slowing in  China’s economy  as a
soft landing, saying it will continue next year. He predicted
the economy will grow between 8.5 percent and 8.7 percent next
year, with inflation between 3.5 percent and 4 percent.  China Cosco, the world’s largest operator of dry-bulk
ships, dropped 1.9 percent to 5.25 yuan.  China Shipping
Development Co. (600026) , a unit of China’s second-biggest sea-cargo
group, lost 1 percent to 6.13 yuan. Cosco Shipping Co., a unit
of the largest shipping company, slid 2.7 percent to 4.40 yuan.  Fitch Ratings put credit ratings for France, Belgium,
Spain, Slovenia, Italy, Ireland and Cyprus under review for a
downgrade, saying a “comprehensive” solution to Europe’s
crisis is “technically and politically beyond reach.” Europe
accounts for about 18 percent of China’s exports, according to
Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.  China Life slumped 3.2 percent to 16.31 yuan, the lowest
close since Oct. 28. China Life held 3.6 million shares, or a
0.7 percent stake, in Chongqing Brewery Co. as of the end of
June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chongqing Brewery  Chongqing Brewery, a beermaker which also produces
medicine, tumbled by the 10 percent daily limit for an eighth
day today after resuming trading on Dec. 8. Chongqing Brewery’s
final summary report on the clinical studies of its Hepatitis B
vaccine may be released on April 6, the company said in a
statement on Dec. 13.  “The company’s share price got too much a boost from
investors’ expectation that its vaccine will work,” Wu Zhengwu,
an analyst at AJ Securities, said in a phone interview from
Shanghai. Chongqing Brewery’s shares had gained 32 percent this
year before they resumed trade on Dec. 8.  BYD, the automaker part-owned by Warren Buffett’s Berkshire
Hathaway Inc., jumped 6.6 percent to 22.86 yuan, the biggest
gain since Nov. 15.  China will implement a new vehicle tax law starting Jan. 1
next year, according to a statement posted on the State
Administration of Taxation website yesterday. The new law will
omit or reduce taxes on vehicles using alternative energy, the
statement said.  Yuan-denominated A shares are approaching a bottom and may
gain between 15 percent and 20 percent next year,  Michael Kurtz ,
chief Asian equity strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc., said at a
press conference in Beijing today.  --Zhang Shidong. With assistance from Michael Wei in Shanghai
and Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur. Editors: Allen Wan, Darren
Boey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  