-- China’s Humbling Lessons for Russia and the West: Pankaj Mishra
-- B y   P a n k a j   M i s h r a
-- 2011-12-19T00:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/china-s-humbling-lessons-for-russia-and-the-west-pankaj-mishra.html
More than a century ago,  China ’s
foremost modern intellectual, Liang Qichao, declared that his
country, struggling for modern nationhood, didn’t need a
socialist revolution.  Liang was convinced that socialist ideas, emerging in
industrialized nations with working-class populations, were
poorly suited to a peasant country like China.  Liang recognized that laissez-faire economics produced
terrible inequalities -- a visit to  New York ’s tenements in 1904
moved him to quote the Tang dynasty poet  Du Fu : “Crimson
mansions reek of wine and meat while on the road lie frozen
bones. Rich and poor but a foot apart; sorrows too hard to
relate.” But as he saw it, what China needed, in the age of
fierce international competition, was  industrial production 
through capitalist methods carefully regulated by a powerful
state, which also worked to mitigate the resulting inequalities,
and check exploitation of the laboring poor.  After a long and bloody revolutionary interlude, China has
arguably come close to this model -- state-regulated capitalism
with a social-welfare component. The apparent  success  of the
“Beijing Consensus,” and relative weakness of the West’s free-
market economies, is now beginning to encourage much ambitious
and contradictory rhetoric (including from  Newt Gingrich , who
admires China’s state-funded high-speed rail network even as he
rails against public spending in the U.S.). And it would seem to
offer something of a lesson to China’s neighbor, and erstwhile
socialist bedfellow, Russia.  The Chinese Way  Last week, a widely read columnist on a Chinese government
English-language website,  China.org.cn , exhorted Russian
Communists, who managed to come in second with 20 percent of the
national vote in Russia’s blatantly rigged parliamentary
elections, to learn from China’s example. “China has proven,”
Heiko Khoo  wrote , “that a Communist Party in power can
continuously develop the economy, modernise infrastructure and
improve real  living standards .”  “If,” he added, “the Communists are seen to be more
democratic, closer to the masses, and capable of emulating
Chinese rates of economic growth, their support will rise and a
modern and successful Soviet  Russia  can be born.”  There are too many piquant ironies here for an educated
Russian. One is surely that China, considered a backward country
by even Stalin, has something to teach the West. Another is that
Russia since 1991 has offered a cautionary tale to the world’s
only communist superpower. There are few instances in recent
history of such large-scale criminality, impoverishment and
misery as occurred when Russia, stumbling out of a dysfunctional
planned economy, was shock-therapied into free-market
capitalism.  The admirer of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) is not
exaggerating when he writes that Russia suffered “the world’s
worst peacetime mortality crisis in the past 50 years, resulting
in millions of additional male deaths in the 1990s. To this day,
 life expectancy  in Russia is below that of 1961.”  There are many Chinese who, though severely critical of the
CCP, harbor no wish to replace it with a multiparty democracy.
They speak of the party’s continuing ability to stave off chaos
of the kind that engulfed Russia after 1991, and that eventually
turned a former KGB operative,  Vladimir Putin , into Russia’s
most popular leader. Inverting Friedrich Hayek’s argument in
“The Road to Serfdom” -- that state intervention in market
relationships leads inexorably to dictatorship -- they argue
that the chaos and mass suffering unleashed by unregulated
markets pave the way to the brutal authoritarianism embodied
today by Putin.  The Stability Argument  Not surprisingly, Putin and his cronies also insist that a
country as large as Russia can only be controlled by a heavily
centralized state. This argument for “stability” sounds
suspiciously like an argument against democracy and human
rights. We have heard different versions of it from besieged
dictators -- most recently,  Libya ’s Muammar Qaddafi and  Syria ’s
Bashar al-Assad. On the other hand, the liberal-democratic West
has yet to put forth a compelling solution to the plight of
ordinary Russians.  Last week, the excesses of Putin  provoked  the Economist
into some unexpected praise for the Soviet era, when leaders
“had values, not just interests” and “took themselves and their
words seriously.” The Communist Party, it added, “was not called
’a party of thieves and crooks.’”  This may be news to many who lived under the Soviet system.
Nevertheless, the Economist broadly agrees with China.org.cn
that Putin became Russia’s most popular leader because Russians
“longed for order and stability, which they associated with the
army and security services rather than with politicians.” Putin
also revived the hoary paranoia about “Russia as a great power
surrounded by enemies.”  Still, this line of thinking only partly explains how so
many Russians ended up loving Putin, and doesn’t say how they
can get away from him. The Economist blames something called
“Soviet mental software,” which apparently “has proved much more
durable than the ideology itself,” and created the “Soviet Man,
an artificial construct of doublethink, paternalism, suspicion
and isolationism,” which has acquired in the Putin era “new
characteristics such as cynicism and aggression.”  This theory is somewhat plausible. However, broad-brush
culturalist explanations like these -- remember the one about
Arab societies not being hard-wired for freedom? -- are
interesting more for what they conceal than for what they
reveal. What’s missing here is an adequate historical reckoning
with the years after 1991 when Russia, assisted by its
vanquishers in the  Cold War , underwent a traumatic utopian
experiment in free-market capitalism: living standards
collapsed, the crime rate skyrocketed -- a series of disasters
that culminated in the destruction of the ruble and bankruptcy
in 1998.  The Western Role  Whether bombarding Russia’s parliament, rigging elections
or imposing a quasi-imperial presidential system, the country’s
buffoonish leader in the 1990s,  Boris Yeltsin , didn’t lose his
many friends and allies in the West. But his abject dependence
on them came to be despised by the vast nationalist majority of
Russians.  Many Western writers and journalists also participated in
this ideological project to turn Russia into a free-market
economy overnight. Less than a year before Russia’s financial
implosion in August 1998, the Economist was  praising  Anatoly Chubais, a man Russians revile for organizing the fire sale of
their country to oligarchs, for his “dynamism, guile and
vision.”  Failure, especially on a catastrophic human scale as
Russia’s, has few fathers. And when revolutions go badly wrong,
their ideologues tend to blame the unfitness of the “people”
rather than their own fanatical zeal. The conventional Western
narrative about Russia today sounds no more persuasive than the
unsolicited advice of those Chinese who think that, as
China.org.cn puts it, Russian communists should learn from
“Chinese state enterprises and local and national government
bodies,” leading to a “comprehensive Sino-Russian plan of
collaboration, development and progress.”  There is no doubt that rebuilding Russia’s industrial base
(or, weaning its economy from an unhealthy reliance on export of
raw materials), restoring social welfare provisions or
diminishing the country’s dangerously big nuclear stockpile
would require an interventionist Russian state along the lines
of what Liang Qichao advocated for China.  But it needn’t be autocratic, as Putin’s own creation --
the Russian middle class -- seemed to say last weekend in the
country’s biggest demonstrations in two decades. And this time
foreigners, Chinese or Westerners, can help by maintaining a
discreet distance from Russia’s internal affairs. For “the ways
by which people advance toward dignity and enlightenment in
government are things that constitute the deepest and most
intimate processes of national life. There is nothing less
understandable to foreigners, nothing in which foreign
interference can do less good.”  George Kennan, America’s wisest Russia Hand, wrote those
words in 1951. They are more resonant in this tumultuous year as
despots once considered immovable are overthrown right and left,
elected governments emerge where they were least expected, and,
finally, the Russian people, too, find their voice against their
brutal and venal masters.  (Pankaj Mishra, the author of “Temptations of the West: How
to be Modern in  India ,  Pakistan ,  Tibet  and Beyond,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist based in Mashobra, India. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Pankaj Mishra at  pmashobra@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 