-- China Currency Data Signals Unprecedented Second Month of Capital Outflows
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-19T04:25:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/china-currency-data-signals-unprecedented-second-month-of-capital-outflows.html
Chinese central bank data signaled
that capital flowed out of the nation for a second month in
November, as bets for yuan appreciation diminished.  Yuan positions at financial institutions accumulated from
foreign-exchange purchases stood at 25.46 trillion yuan ($4
trillion) as of the end of November, down 27.9 billion yuan in
the month,  People’s Bank of China data  show. The figure declined
a combined 52.8 billion yuan in the past two months, the first
back-to-back drop since at least 2000.  Forward contracts on the yuan weakened on concern that
outflows of investment and a narrowing  trade surplus  will ease
pressure on the currency to appreciate, even as U.S. President
 Barack Obama  calls for  China  to accelerate gains. Reduced
inflows are also curbing the supply of cash in the economy,
prompting the monetary authority to cut lenders’ reserve ratios
this month for the first time in three years.  “Capital outflow in China has just started and it’s likely
to continue into early next year,” said Ren Xianfang, a
Beijing-based economist with IHS Global Insight Ltd. “The
global economy will be in its most difficult time this quarter
and next and the next few months will likely be the most
volatile time for the global financial market.”  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards fell 0.08 percent to
6.4095 per dollar, a 1 percent discount to the onshore spot
rate. The yuan fell 0.1 percent to 6.3550 in  Shanghai . It
touched 6.3294 on Dec. 16, the strongest level since China
unified official and market exchange rates at the end of 1993.  Trade Surplus  Other evidence that inflows into China are decelerating
include the  trade surplus  narrowing 35 percent last month from a
year earlier and foreign direct investment falling for the first
time since 2009. China’s trade surplus this year may narrow by
more than $30 billion from 2010, Minister of Commerce Chen
Deming said in a statement released on the ministry’s website
today.  The decline in yuan positions “triggered by slow economic
growth and a reversal in yuan appreciation expectations, is in
sharp contrast with historical patterns, which saw average
growth of over 320 billion yuan per month for the first nine
months of 2011,” said  Li Wei , a Shanghai-based economist at
 Standard Chartered  Plc.  The data “strengthened our outlook for continued reserve
cuts, at least one more before the Chinese New Year holiday,”
said IHS’ Ren, referring to the weeklong break that starts Jan.
23. Standard Chartered’s Li sees a cut this month.  China will face more disputes over trade and exchange rates
in the next few years, the official Xinhua News Agency reported
yesterday, citing Ding Yifan, a researcher at the State Council.
The debt crisis in several countries may deepen in the first
half of next year, likely creating frictions between China, the
U.S. and  Europe , Xinhua said, citing Ding. President Obama said
at a news conference on Nov. 13 in  Hawaii  that “enough’s
enough” on restraining yuan gains.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  