-- China Money Rate Declines on Speculation of More Monetary Easing
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2011-12-19T09:00:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/china-money-rate-declines-on-speculation-of-more-monetary-easing.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
dropped to the lowest level in more than a week on speculation
the central bank will ease monetary policy.  China may relax loan-to-deposit ratios for banks to spur
lending and support growth, economists from Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and Barclays Capital said last week. Banks in Shenzhen are
joining lenders in Beijing and Shanghai in offering lower
mortgage rates for first-home buyers amid loosened credit, the
 Securities Times  reported last week.  “It seems capital outflows are continuing, which adds to
pressure for policy easing,” said  Ju Wang , a fixed-income
strategist at Barclays Capital in  Singapore . “I expect another
reserve-ratio-requirement cut before Chinese New Year. If
outflows deepen and banks start to prepare for Chinese New Year
cash demand earlier, then the central bank may cut the ratio by
the end of this month.” The Lunar New Year holiday will start
on Jan. 23.  The seven-day  repo rate , which measures interbank funding
availability, dropped five basis points to 3.02 percent as of
4:30 p.m. in  Shanghai , according to a weighted average rate
compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. It touched
2.98 percent earlier today, the lowest level since Dec. 8.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, fell three basis
point to 2.71 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It slumped 11 basis points on Dec. 16, the biggest decline in
two weeks.  The yield on the 3.99 percent government bond due June 2021
was unchanged at 3.46 percent, according to the Interbank
Funding Center.  -- With assistance from Judy Chen in Shanghai. Editors: Andrew Janes, James Regan  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  