-- Blockaded China Villagers Cancel Protest March After Winning Concessions
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-21T07:52:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/china-protesting-villagers-share-food-as-police-blockade-cuts-off-supplies.html
Residents of a blockaded southern
Chinese village canceled a protest march after winning
concessions from the highest-ranking official yet to intervene
in a two-week standoff over land and the death of a local man.  Zhu Mingguo, deputy secretary-general of the Communist
Party’s Guangdong province committee, called the protesters’
demands in Wukan “reasonable” and agreed to release villagers
held in police custody, Xinhua News Agency reported. He
acknowledged party committees and government organizations in
Wukan made “some mistakes,” which will be fixed. Wukan is
about 150 kilometers (93 miles) east of Hong Kong in Guangdong.  The decision to meet the villagers’ demands is part of a
wider government strategy aimed at containing such protests
before they spread, said  Joseph Cheng , a politics professor at
the  City University  of Hong Kong. The standoff and other
protests have sparked concerns that unrest stemming from China’s
growth could undermine the Communist Party’s rule.  “I think the central authorities are sensitive enough and
understand the problems, and certainly do not want to exacerbate
the issue,” Cheng said in a telephone interview. “When higher
authorities’ attention is caught, they usually will try to
resolve the issue peacefully.”  A similar scenario played out yesterday near the city of
Shantou, also in Guangdong, when thousands of villagers
protesting the construction of a power plant dispersed after
officials promised to suspend work, Xinhua reported.  Expressway Blocked  The villagers blocked the Shenzhen-Shantou expressway for
about six hours yesterday because they were upset about the
environmental damage done by an existing generator, according to
Xinhua. A publicity department official for the Shantou
government, who declined to give her name, said city authorities
had no comment in addition to what was reported by Xinhua.  In Wukan today, protesters called off the planned march and
were gathering at roadblocks set up outside the village to see
if the government would, as the residents had requested, release
individuals detained by police.  “We’re now letting the government handle our requests,”
Chen Liangzi, a 39-year-old resident of Wukan, said by telephone
today. “As villagers, we need them to take our requests
seriously. They’ve agreed to release our people. Everyone is
there waiting.”  The unrest in Wukan first began in September, when disputes
over land and village finances between residents and local
officials led protesters to attack police and overturn cars,
according to the  Shanwei city government . Protests flared again
this month after police detained five villagers on accusations
that they had led demonstrations and one of the men, Xue Jinbo,
died while in custody on Dec. 11.  Heart Failure  Authorities have said Xue’s death was caused by heart
failure and that his body showed no signs of assault. Luo Bin,
deputy director of the Forensic Examination Center of Sun Yat-
sen University, also excluded the possibility of “traumatic
death,” according to the Shanwei city government.  To resolve the Wukan dispute, a work team will set up three
branches to deal with  land use , financing and the election of
local officials, and will provide contact numbers to villagers
that will be available “round the clock,” Xinhua said, citing
Zhu. The group will handle all “reasonable” requests and seek
to punish corruption “severely,” it said.  China  earlier promised to compensate victims of illegal
land grabs in the village. The government will reclaim 404 mu
(26 acres) of land in the dispute and talk to villagers about
the best way to develop it, according to an official who
answered a hot line set up by the local government to handle
inquiries about the protests. The official declined to give his
name.  Urbanization Process  “In the urbanization process, land is a valuable commodity
and as corrupt officials and developers take away land from the
peasants, you will have a lot of conflicts,” Cheng of City
University said. “Certainly villagers are more and more
emboldened to protest.”  Zheng Yanxiong, Shanwei’s Communist Party chief and the
city’s highest ranking official, called on residents to rely on
the government and not to trust foreign media, according to
video footage of a speech he delivered that was posted to the
website of  Hong Kong  Cable TV yesterday. It was unclear when the
speech was given.  Two Wukan village officials were removed from their posts
last month and another resigned due to disciplinary misconduct,
the Shanwei city government said in a statement on its  website .
The government last week also authorized legal action to be
taken in investigating village officials, it said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Regina Tan in Beijing at 
 rtan87@bloomberg.net ;
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  