-- Citic Pacific Loses Further Bid to Shield Documents From Police Over Loss
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2011-12-19T05:31:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/citic-pacific-loses-further-bid-to-shield-documents-from-police-over-loss.html
Citic Pacific Ltd. (267) , which delayed
reporting a potential HK$15.5 billion ($2 billion) loss from a
failed derivatives bet, lost a second bid to block police access
to documents it had argued were private.  The company didn’t show that it disclosed to banks from
which it sought loans in September 2008 that its financial
position had changed, Judge Alan Wright of the Hong Kong High
Court wrote in a judgment handed down today. The existence of
potential fraud exempts communications between Citic Pacific and
its lawyers from legal privilege, Wright wrote.  The judgment covers documents and files seized by Hong Kong
police in a raid of Citic Pacific’s offices on April 3, 2009.
The company had contested the seizure of “hundreds of thousands
of pages” of documents, arguing that the materials were
protected by legal privilege and that the police had exceeded
the scope of their search warrant.  Hong Kong ’s Department of Justice said in March it
suspected Citic Pacific defrauded four banks before Oct. 20,
2008, when it sought financing without disclosing losses on
currency bets.  The company issued a profit warning on Oct. 20, in a stock
exchange filing detailing losses on foreign exchange contracts
of as much as HK$15.5 billion. The company said it learned of
the exposure on Sept. 7, 2008.  Citic Pacific shares slumped 55 percent on Oct. 21 that
year. Shares fell 3 percent to HK$13.14 at the Hong Kong lunch
break today.  Wright ruled in March that records of legal advice the
company received and turned over to the Securities and Futures
Commission must be made available to the justice department for
potential criminal prosecution.  Wright ordered a stay on executing the order until Jan. 9,
the deadline to appeal his decision.  The case is Citic Pacific Ltd. and Secretary for Justice,
Commissioner of Police, HCMP767/2010 in Hong Kong’s Court of
First Instance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  