-- Clay Capital’s Turner Pleads Guilty in $2.5 Million Insider-Trading Case
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2011-12-19T18:51:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/clay-capital-s-turner-pleads-guilty-in-2-5-million-insider-trading-case.html
James F. Turner II, the chief
investment officer of hedge fund Clay Capital Management LLC,
pleaded guilty to his role in an insider-trading scheme that
prosecutors said made more than $2.5 million in illicit profit.  Turner, 44, illegally traded in shares of  Autodesk Inc. (ADSK) ,
Moldflow Corp. and  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) , he admitted in federal
court in Newark, New Jersey. Clay Capital operated the Clay Fund
from January 2007 to December 2010, according to a U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission complaint filed Aug. 31.  Turner, of Traverse City, Michigan, admitted today he got
tips from Scott Vollmar, his brother-in-law and a director of
business development at Autodesk, and from Scott Robarge, a
manager at Salesforce.com.  Turner pleaded guilty to one count of  securities fraud . He
faces as many as 20 years in prison when U.S. District Judge
Dennis Cavanaugh sentences him on April 16. Joseph Bush,
Turner’s attorney, declined to comment after the plea hearing.  Vollmar, of Florence,  Oregon , and Robarge, of Louisville,
 Colorado , previously pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit
securities fraud. Turner, Vollmar and Robarge were sued by the
SEC over the scheme.  Turner and three partners founded Clay Capital as a hedge
fund in June 2006 to use the “investment prowess” of Turner,
according to the SEC. He had worked as a securities analyst and
portfolio manager for two financial services companies and a
hedge fund, the SEC said.  While the investments of Turner and his partners remain in
the Clay Fund, its other assets were liquidated and distributed
in December 2010, the SEC said.  Moldflow Acquisition  Turner admitted that from January 2008 to May 2008, Vollmar
gave him confidential information about Autodesk’s interest in
acquiring Moldflow. Turner bought $2.3 million in shares of
Moldflow for Clay Capital and $3.5 million for himself and
family members, he admitted.  After Autodesk, a  software company  in San Rafael,
 California , announced on May 1, 2008, that it was buying
Moldflow, Turner sold all of the shares. He made $650,000 in
illegal profits for Clay Capital and $1.1 million for his
family.  Turner separately generated $590,000 in illicit profits by
betting that Autodesk shares would fall after its earnings
announcement and lowered guidance on Feb. 26, 2008, he admitted.
Vollmar had previously tipped him that the company would have
trouble meeting its earnings targets.  Turner also reaped $224,000 in illicit profits after
Robarge tipped him that Salesforce.com, a software company in
 San Francisco , would exceed the earnings estimates of analysts
for the quarter ended Jan. 31, 2008, according to court
documents.  The case is U.S. v. Turner, U.S. District Court, District
of  New Jersey  (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 