-- Clinton Sees Progress on Landmines Even as U.S. Won’t Ban Them
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2011-12-19T17:36:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/clinton-sees-progress-on-landmines-even-as-u-s-won-t-ban-them.html
Central America is the first region
in the world to be free of landmines in areas accessed by
people, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said.  She spoke at the release today of the 10th edition of “To
Walk the Earth in Safety,” the State Department’s annual report
on U.S. work on landmine clearance and the destruction of
convention weapons.  “Landmines render thousands of acres of land unusable and
literally tear away the fabric of communities unable to farm
land, to walk safely from village to village,” Clinton said.  She noted that Central America has become “the first
affected region to achieve mine-impact-free status, meaning all
explosives -– and I underline all explosives -– have been safely
cleared from areas where people go about their daily lives.”  The U.S. is the single largest financial supporter of
destroying conventional weapons, such as the shoulder-fired
anti-aircraft missiles the Obama administration has been trying
to track in  Libya . At the same time, the U.S. refuses to adhere
to a ban on landmines and cluster bombs like those produced by
 Alliant Techsystems (ATK)  of  Minneapolis ,  Minnesota .  The U.S. has helped destroy more than 1.4 million small
arms and light weapons and 80,000 tons of munitions around the
world since 2001, according to the report. In Helmund province,
Afghanistan, U.S. initiatives have helped clear more than 80,000
square meters of land, Clinton said.  Reviewing Policy  The Obama administration is reviewing its policy on
landmine use, Andrew Shapiro, the State Department’s assistant
secretary for political and military affairs, said at the State
Department event.  “Thus far our review is taking into account what impact it
would have on our ability to conduct military operations,” he
said. “After that review is done we will come to a decision
about the best way ahead, but that should not in any way detract
from the significant efforts the  United States  has made.”  Shapiro said the U.S. estimates that about 20,000 of the
shoulder-launched missiles known as MANPADS remain in Libya.
They present “one of our most serious concerns,” Shapiro said
on Dec. 12, because of the threat they pose to civilian aircraft
and the possibility they may fall into terrorist hands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at  
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  