-- Colombia Bond Yields Rise Most in Two Weeks on Year-End Selling
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2011-12-19T18:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/colombia-bond-yields-rise-most-in-two-weeks-on-year-end-selling.html
Colombia ’s peso bonds fell, pushing
yields on benchmark securities to rise the most in two weeks, as
investors sold the securities before year-end holidays.  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent bonds due in July 2024
rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.60
percent, according to the stock exchange. That’s the biggest
increase since Dec. 6. The bond’s price fell 0.368 centavo to
118.937 centavos per peso.  “Investors are closing their positions as we approach the
end of the year and especially given all the external noise,”
said Beatriz Alarcon, a fixed-income analyst at Acciones y
Valores SA brokerage in Bogota. “Volumes are low, as is common
at this time of year.”  Colombia’s central bank on Dec. 16 held the overnight
lending rate at 4.75 percent, as forecast by 26 of 32 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Six analysts expected the bank to raise
the rate to 5 percent.  In November, policy makers raised the rate a quarter
percentage point, citing the need to bolster the central bank’s
credibility after “strong” growth drove up inflation
expectations, according to minutes of the meeting.  ‘More Increases’  Banco de la Republica’s statement following last week’s
rate decision “signals more increases to come,” said  Camilo Perez , head analyst at Banco de Bogota SA, the country’s second-
biggest bank. He predicts policy makers will raise the key rate
in February to 5 percent, leaving it at that level through the
remainder of the year.  Colombia’s economy probably grew more than 6 percent in the
third quarter, Banco de la Republica said in the statement
following the rate decision.  Latin America ’s fifth-largest
economy may grow as much as 6 percent in 2011, the central bank
has said, which would make it the fastest pace since 2007.  Bank lending is expanding “at a fast pace and seems to be
accelerating,” and housing costs are at a record, policy makers
said in the statement. The balance of risks is “very
sensitive” to new data about the local and global economy,
according to the statement.  The peso rose 0.3 percent to 1,935.10 per  U.S. dollar , from
1,940.97 on Dec. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  