-- Combined Insurance Co. Fined $8.7 Million in U.K., Ireland
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2011-12-19T14:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/combined-insurance-co-fined-8-7-million-in-u-k-ireland-1-.html
Combined Insurance Co. of America
and its Irish subsidiary were fined a combined $8.7 million for
regulatory breaches.  The company, which sold non-life insurance products through
affiliated agents, must pay a 3.35 million-euro ($4.36 million)
fine to Ireland’s Central Bank through its Combined Insurance
Co. of Europe Ltd. unit. The U.K. Financial Services Authority
separately fined the company 2.8 million pounds ($4.34 million)
for not effectively managing its sales processes or how it
handled claims and complaints, the regulator said in a statement
today.  Some of the company’s agents acted “dishonestly, unfairly
and unprofessionally,” the central bank said in a statement.
Violations included wrongly obtaining customers’ bank account
details and using them to set up policies in other peoples’
names. The fine was the largest-ever levied by the central bank.  The fine “reflects the seriousness with which we view
fundamental regulatory failures, including inadequate systems
and controls,” said Peter Oakes, director of enforcement at the
central bank.  The central bank’s actions “address certain historic
business practices that did not meet regulatory requirements or
our company’s own standards,” Combined Insurance said in an e-
mailed statement sent by an external spokeswoman for the Irish
operation. “The company has taken decisive actions to correct
these issues by appointing a new board of directors and
management team, improving processes and controls and suspending
new sales.”  Combined Insurance received the FSA’s standard 30 percent
discount on the agency’s fine for settling early.  “Combined Insurance Co. of America’s widespread failures
reflect a culture which did not recognize the importance of
treating customers fairly,” said FSA acting head of enforcement
Tracey McDermott. “This created a significant risk that
customers would not get a fair deal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net  