-- Conoco Permit Clears Way for Alaska Petroleum Reserve Output
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2011-12-20T01:36:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/conoco-sees-alaska-cd5-project-producing-18-000-barrels-a-day.html
ConocoPhillips, the largest oil and
natural-gas producer in  Alaska , got a permit that clears the way
for the first production from the National Petroleum Reserve, an
area that may hold 1 billion barrels of crude.  The U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers permit means
ConocoPhillips can make a decision on whether to proceed with
the project next year, Natalie Lowman, a spokeswoman for the
Houston-based company, said in an e-mail yesterday. The CD5
project, in which  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  is a partner, will
cost more than $600 million and may produce as many as 18,000
barrels a day when output begins in late 2015, she said.  The approval comes more than a year after the Corps
rejected plans by the company for oil production infrastructure
at the site. The U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service and Environmental
Protection Agency on Dec. 5 announced an agreement with
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  on construction of a pipeline and bridge for the
project.  “To harness Alaska’s tremendous energy potential for our
nation, we must continue to find ways to responsibly expand
opportunities for exploration, development and delivery of
resources from the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska,” said
David J. Hayes, deputy secretary of the U.S. Interior Department,
which manages the 22.6 million-acre area.  The permit allows the construction of a drill pad, access
road, bridge crossings and pipeline support structures, and has
22 special conditions to help protect the environment, the Corps
said in a  statement .  The  reserve  was established in 1923 as an emergency oil
supply for the U.S. Navy and holds more than 1 billion barrels
of technically recoverable oil, the Interior Department said in
a statement yesterday. The  U.S. Geological Survey  estimated the
reserve had 896 million barrels of oil and 53 trillion cubic
feet of gas, according to an  assessment  last year.  ConocoPhillips fell 0.8 percent yesterday to close at
$67.85. The shares are little changed this year.  The “decision clears the way for the National Petroleum
Reserve’s first oil production,” Senator  Lisa Murkowski , an
Alaska Republican, said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net  