-- Cornell, Technion Are Chosen by New York City to Create Engineering Campus
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2011-12-19T23:04:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/cornell-university-said-to-be-chosen-by-new-york-for-engineering-campus.html
Cornell University  and  Technion-
Israel Institute of Technology  won a New York City contest to
build an engineering campus with a grant of land on Roosevelt
Island and $100 million for infrastructure improvements.  The NYCTech Campus is intended to bolster  job creation  in
the city and may generate 600 spinoff companies and $23 billion
in economic activity over the next three decades, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said at a news conference today.  Cornell, based in Ithaca, New York, and Haifa-based
Technion beat out six competing bids, including one from
 Stanford University . Cornell announced an anonymous $350 million
gift Dec. 16 to support its bid, hours after Stanford said it
was withdrawing from the contest.  “Of all the applications we received, Cornell and
Technion’s was the boldest and most ambitious,” Bloomberg said.
“In a word, this project will be transformative.”  The city is continuing negotiations with  Columbia
University ,  New York University  and  Carnegie Mellon University 
about supporting an additional engineering project in the city,
Bloomberg said.  Classes in 2012  Cornell plans to begin offering classes next year in leased
space as it begins building on the campus at Roosevelt Island,
in the  East River . Cornell said it will move into the campus by
2017 and finish construction of 1.3 million square feet by 2027.
By 2043, the campus will have 2,500 students and 280 professors,
according to a statement from the mayor’s office.  The new campus will generate more than $23 billion in
overall economic activity and $1.4 billion in tax revenue over
the next 30 years, according to the statement. The project will
create 20,000 construction jobs and 8,000 permanent jobs. The
estimated 600 spinoff companies will create another 30,000 jobs.  “This is not a moment for a touchdown dance for Cornell or
Technion,” Cornell President  David Skorton  said at the press
conference. “This is a moment for a touchdown dance for  New
York City .”  The project will cost about $1.5 billion to build, Skorton
said. The university doesn’t plan on borrowing to finance the
project and instead will rely on tuition and philanthropy,
technology license fees and corporate partnerships, he said.  Best Proposal  The Cornell-Technion proposal offered the most students,
most faculty, biggest facility and most aggressive time frame,
the mayor said.  Cornell has a medical school on the Upper East Side of
Manhattan. About 20,000 graduate, undergraduate and postgraduate
students attend the university, and there are about 50,000
Cornell alumni in New York City. The institution will continue
to operate its engineering school in Ithaca.  “It is a tremendous boost in morale and recognition for
Cornell,” said Inge Reichenbach, the vice president of
development at  Yale University  who held the same role at Cornell
for a decade. “It is an amazing opportunity.”  Technion, an 87-year-old Israeli science and engineering
institution with almost 13,000 students, counts  Albert Einstein 
as an early supporter. The scientist was president of the first
Technion society, according to its website. Technion professor
Dan Schechtman was  awarded  the  Nobel Prize  in chemistry on
Dec. 10.  “We are not going to have an extension of the Technion or
Cornell,” said Technion President Peretz Lavie. “We are going
to have something new.”  An engineering campus in  New York  will help tie Cornell
more closely to the city and provide a more viable location for
companies that are spun out of the school, said Ronald Ehrenberg, an economics professor who directs the Cornell Higher
Education Research Institute.  Bold Thinking  “The trustees and the president have long wanted to have a
bigger presence in New York City,” Ehrenberg said. “The notion
that you can be a great international university in the 21st
century if you’re located in rural upstate New York doesn’t
work.”  Skorton deserves credit for bold thinking, Ehrenberg said.  “I’m absolutely delighted for him,” Ehrenberg said. “To
have leaders with a grand vision is incredible.”  Upon seeking requests for proposals in July, the mayor
hailed the development of a “world-class” applied sciences and
engineering school in the city. He said it would be “a critical
driver of the further diversification of New York City’s
economy” beyond its dependence on  Wall Street , which provided
about 7 percent of the city’s  tax revenue  in 2011, according to
state Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli .  Cornell’s endowment was valued at $5.3 billion as of
June 30, according to the university.  Cornell’s History  Cornell counts among its alumni Sanford “Sandy” Weill,
former chairman of Citigroup Inc. in New York;  Abby Joseph Cohen , senior investment strategist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
in New York, and former U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno.  Founded in 1865 by Ezra Cornell and Andrew Dickson White,
Cornell is the youngest university in the eight-member  Ivy
League . Ezra Cornell was an entrepreneur who believed in
generating knowledge that could be put to practical use,
Reichenbach said.  “Everything was geared to make it applicable for the
benefit of mankind,” she said. “This opportunity is completely
in sync with Cornell’s mission.”  Winning the contest, and receiving a $350 million donation,
will catalyze fundraising for the university, Reichenbach said.  “This will be a validation of the institution and will
galvanize all the alumni,” she said.  The project must get approval from City Council, the local
community board, the city Planning Board and the city Department
of Planning before construction may begin, as required by state
law, said Julie Wood, spokeswoman for the mayor.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP,
parent of Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oliver Staley in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  