-- Corzine Another Victim of the Alpha-Male Curse: William D. Cohan
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2011-12-19T00:00:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/corzine-another-victim-of-the-alpha-male-curse-william-d-cohan.html
For years, I have wondered why, for
some people, enough is never enough. For example, what could
have possibly motivated  Jon Corzine  -- a respected former
senator, governor and Wall Street big shot with hundreds of
millions in the bank -- to take the top job at  MF Global
Holdings Ltd (MF)  in the first place?  He was 63 years old, six months away from getting
remarried. He was one of the few remaining high-profile Wall
Street Democrats around, and an avid supporter of President
 Barack Obama . He was routinely mentioned as a possible successor
to Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner , if Obama were to win a
second term.  Why couldn’t Corzine just enjoy his fortune, perhaps set up
an eponymous foundation to do good works, bide his time and then
use his connections to become Treasury secretary? He already had
a cushy perch at  Princeton University , where he invited any
number of finance types to teach his class while he basked in
their reflective glory. Life was good. (Disclosure: I once
taught the class, although the amount of glory reflected is
debatable.)  Instead, much to everyone’s surprise, in 2010 he decided to
take on the thankless task of trying to revive MF Global, a
second-rate futures dealer, at the request of his former  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  colleague  Christopher Flowers , whose private-
equity firm had purchased a $150 million stake in MF Global in
2008.  An Odd Request  That Corzine would accede to Flowers’s request, even though
Flowers had inadvertently helped to exacerbate the coup that
toppled Corzine as co-chief executive officer at Goldman Sachs,
was even odder. It’s hard not to think he was after some sort of
personal and professional redemption at MF Global after his
unceremonious departures from Goldman Sachs and the governor’s
office.  You didn’t have to see the miserable spectacle of Corzine
testifying before various Congressional committees this month to
assume he now regrets his decision, even though his personal
investment in MF Global was minor, around $3 million. What he
has in spades is enough lawsuits and headaches -- to say nothing
of possible criminal charges -- to last him the rest of his
life. Why didn’t he just go quietly into the good night?  Last April, shortly before the verdict in the Raj Rajaratnam insider-trading trial, I spoke with a federal
prosecutor, who compared white-collar criminals to drug lords he
had prosecuted. “These guys had more money than God,” he said of
the drug dealers. “They had so much money that they would have
to bury millions of dollars in cash because there was no place
else to put it. So their house, their yard, their huge farms
would be full of these graves of money.” He continued: “For
these guys it was always about who got the most amount of dope
from  Colombia  to  Mexico  to the U.S. It was about saying -- when
you’re there with all the other heads of the cartels -- ‘I’m the
biggest guy. I got the biggest load.’”  Along the same lines, perhaps alpha males such as Corzine
are often unable to choose the path that others see more
clearly. Why did  Robert Rubin , another of Corzine’s former
Goldman Sachs partners and a man with a once-peerless
reputation, take a job at Citigroup in 1999, after he left his
position at Treasury secretary? Rubin’s decision, which netted
him an extra $115 million or so -- on top of his Goldman Sachs
fortune -- ended up badly tarnishing his image when it was
revealed that he had a heavy hand in ramping up the risk-taking
at Citigroup, causing it to almost go bankrupt and then need a
government bailout.  Never Quit Trying  Why didn’t Rubin choose a route similar to that of  Henry Paulson , another former Goldman Sachs chief executive officer
and Treasury secretary, who had the good sense to set up a
China-focused think tank in  Chicago  rather than return to  Wall
Street ?  For that matter, why did the now 83-year-old  Felix Rohatyn 
feel the need to return to Wall Street after his stint as
President  Bill Clinton ’s ambassador to  France ? Rohatyn was
already a legendary figure on Wall Street, but he couldn’t
resist returning first as an advisor to Richard Fuld at now-
defunct Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (oops!) and now as an
advisor to  Kenneth Jacobs  at Lazard Ltd., the firm where Rohatyn
established his reputation in the first place.  What is so wrong with retiring gracefully with one’s
reputation largely intact? Why do these men feel such a need to
constantly seek power and the limelight that often accompanies
it, even knowing how often the final act turns sour? Perhaps the
best explanation is one attributed to Pete Peterson, the 85-
year-old billionaire co-founder of the Blackstone Group: “I
don’t like it when the phone stops ringing.”  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 