-- Credit Suisse Appoints New Heads of Health Care, Consumer-Product Banking
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2011-12-19T23:41:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/credit-suisse-appoints-new-heads-of-health-care-consumer-product-banking.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
 Switzerland ’s second-biggest bank by assets, named global heads
of teams advising health care, retail and consumer product
companies, copying a structure it uses for other industries.  Robin Rankin in New York and Jens Welter in London were
appointed this month to lead bankers who counsel companies in
the retail and consumer product industries, according to an
internal memo obtained by Bloomberg. Tom Davidson and Stuart Smith, both based in New York, were also named to oversee
health-care banking, according to a separate memo. They report
to James Amine and Luigi de Vecchi, co-heads of the global
 investment-banking  department, who signed the memos. Jack Grone,
a spokesman in New York, confirmed the memos’ contents.  Credit Suisse, based in Zurich, already had executives
running global teams of bankers advising financial institutions
and technology, media and telecommunications companies and in
April named London-based Mark Echlin and Andy Lipsky in New York
to oversee industrials companies. The bank ranks fourth among
advisers on global mergers and acquisitions this year and fifth
among underwriters of equity, equity-linked and rights
offerings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The changes “will allow us to provide seamless coverage to
our clients around the world and consistently deliver to them
the resources of the entire bank,” New York-based Amine and
London-based de Vecchi said in one of the memos.  Andrew van der Vord, hired from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in
2009 as a vice chairman of investment banking for consumer-
related companies, was named global vice chairman of the retail
and consumer products group, according to one of the memos. Van
der Vord, based in New York, will work with Rankin and Welter on
improving relationships with clients around the world.  Cutting Costs  Credit Suisse, led since 2007 by  Brady Dougan , 52, said
last month it plans to cut annual costs by 2 billion Swiss
francs ($2.13 billion) by the end of 2013. The bank is scaling
down its investment-banking division and cutting 3,500 jobs.
Earlier this month the bank said it plans to combine operational
functions of its private banking and investment-banking units
beginning next year to lower expenses.  The bank also made changes in  Europe , the  Middle East  and
 Africa  to its investment banking department, which handles M&A
and equity and debt underwriting, according to a person familiar
with the matter. The moves will take effect on Jan. 1, the
person said. Financial News reported those changes yesterday on
its website.  The region’s bankers advising industrial and energy
companies will be organized into a group led by Echlin and
Jonathan Grundy, who was previously head of the European energy
team, the person said. Bankers working with consumer, retail,
real estate, health care, technology, media and
telecommunications companies will become part of a group called
CRH/TMT, led by Wenceslao Bunge and Giuseppe Monarchi, the
person said.  Technology, Media Banking  Bunge, based in  London , was co-head of consumer, real
estate and health-care banking with Welter, the person said.
Monarchi, who is also in London, will continue as head of
European mergers and will also be co-head of technology, media
and telecommunications banking with Philippe Cerf, the person
said.  Bankers who advise financial institutions in Europe, the
Middle East and Africa will continue to be led by Eric Richard
and Carl-Georg Bauer-Schlichtegroll, both in London. They report
to London-based Ewen Stevenson, global head of the so-called
global financial institutions group, the person said.  Stuart Upcraft, who has been running M&A in the U.K., will
join Sebastian Grigg as co-head of U.K. investment banking, the
person said. Grigg has led the business in the U.K. since 2007,
the same year that Upcraft rejoined Credit Suisse from Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 