-- CWG’s Rogers Sees Warm Start to January, Then Chance of Cold
-- B y   C h a r l o t t e   P o r t e r
-- 2011-12-19T18:26:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/cwg-s-rogers-sees-warm-start-to-january-then-chance-of-cold.html
January will probably get off to a
warm start for the U.S. Northeast and East, while lower
temperatures may arrive at mid-month, according to Commodity
Weather Group President  Matt Rogers ’ revised forecast.  Rogers said December may finish 15 percent warmer than last
year, based on natural gas-weighted heating degree days, while
January will probably be 7.8 percent warmer than in 2011. The
period from November through March may be 4.4 percent warmer
than 2010-2011, he wrote.  Rogers forecast in October that this winter might be the
coldest in more than 10 years.  “An incredibly challenging January outlook remains,” he
said. “The safest answer would favor more of the same with the
prevailing November-December pattern of warm-dominated
variability and no high-latitude blocking patterns. But for a
number of reasons, we believe there is a decent chance for
pattern variations at some point inside the month ahead.”  Traders use long-range temperature predictions to gauge
energy use and market fluctuations. Hot or cold weather can
increase demand for heating and cooling.  Power plants  use about
30 percent of the nation’s gas supplies, according to Energy
Department data.  Rogers predicted that the U.S. natural-gas weighted heating
degree days for the season will be 3,755.6, down from the 4,024
he predicted in October.  Degree Days Outlook  The gas-weighted degree days for the period in the U.S.
last year was 3,928.2 and the 10-year average was 3,724.4,
according to Rogers, who is based in Bethesda,  Maryland .  Heating degree days , calculated by subtracting the daily
average temperature from a base of 65 degrees, are designed to
show energy demand. Higher values mean cooler weather and more
energy being used to heat homes and business.  Gas-weighted degree days give more value to areas where
there are higher populations using natural gas to stay warm.  Rogers forecasts average to above-average January
temperatures for the Northeast from eastern  Ohio  to New England,
with seasonal temperatures from Minnesota to the Carolinas. The
rest of the nation is expected to have below-normal
temperatures, with the coldest weather across the Rockies and
Plains from eastern  Washington  to central  North Dakota  and south
to central  Texas .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlotte Porter at 
 cporter11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  