-- Czechs Plan Funeral for Havel as EU Honors Dissident Who Became President
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a ,   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2011-12-19T16:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/czechs-plan-funeral-for-havel-as-eu-honors-dissident-who-became-president.html
Czech President Vaclav Klaus and the
widow of Vaclav Havel agreed to hold a state funeral on Dec. 23
as citizens waited as long as three hours to pay their last
respects to the anti-communist dissident playwright who became
president.  The government declared a state of mourning beginning on
Dec. 21 leading into a minute’s silence and the first state
funeral in more than 30 years, Premier Petr Necas said. EU
sessions in Brussels held a minute of silence to honor
yesterday’s death of Havel, the first post-communist Czech head
of state. Czechs left thousands of candles and flowers on
Wenceslas Square, the center of the 1989 Velvet Revolution.  “He was the symbol of what happened here in November 1989,
he did a lot for the Czech Republic, for its transition to
democracy, to the structures of the European Union,” said
Necas said yesterday on state-run television. “He still had a
lot to offer in politics as well as society.”  Havel, who died in his sleep after a long illness, was an
international icon for opposing totalitarian regimes in the
former Soviet bloc and helped lead the country to democracy. He
was president for almost 13 years and counted figures including
 Nelson Mandela  andLech Walesa as friends.  Global Tributes  Around the world, leaders including U.S. PresidentBarack Obama, EU Commission President  Jose Barroso  and German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  sent condolences and noted his
prominent place in the fall of the Iron Curtain and the spread
of democracy into eastern Europe.  “His peaceful resistance shook the foundations of an
empire, exposed the emptiness of a repressive ideology, and
proved that moral leadership is more powerful than any weapon,”
said Obama in a statement yesterday from the White House. “He
also embodied the aspirations of half a continent that had been
cut off by the Iron Curtain, and helped unleash tides of history
that led to a united and democratic Europe.”  Black flags fluttered at  Prague ’s Hradcany Castle, the seat
of the president’s offices overlooking the capital as Klaus and
others signed a condolence book. Across town, hundreds of people
with flowers lined up at the former St. Anna Church, now the
home of Havel’s Nadace Vize 97, to wait to view his remains.
Havel’s widow, Dagmar Havelova, laid red roses on the simple
wood coffin.  ‘Thank You’  A bronze tribute at National Boulevard was aglow with the
light of hundreds of candles from well-wishers, including little
children who had brought their drawings saying, “Thank you Mr.
President.” Havel’s coffin will be moved to the castle on Dec.
21 for further viewing in the Vladislavsky Hall.  A crowd in Wenceslas Square observed a minute of silence
yesterday eventing as men wrapped the base of the statue of St.
Wenceslas in black fabric. Some shook keys recalling similar
gestures from the Velvet Revolution and shouted “Long Live
Havel.” The Czech national anthem was sung as the crowd
followed a Czech flag down the street toward the center of the
city.  “Vaclav Havel is dead but his legacy will live on,” one
of the speakers at the event told the crowd. Wenceslas is
English for Vaclav.  Two girls at the Velvet Revolution monument laid a packet
of cigarettes for Havel, a symbol of the president’s long-time
smoking habit that was a cause of much of his illness. An
accordion player stood nearby playing a slow and mournful
version of “Wasted Love.”  ‘Great Loss’  “It’s a great loss, though we expected it because he was
so sick,” said Miloslava Ticha, 64, who came with her husband
Frantisek. “He was a real personality. He doesn’t have a worthy
successor. There’s nobody of his stature on the Czech political
scene.”  Havel served as president of Czechoslovakia from the end of
1989 until 1992. In 1993, he became president of the  Czech
Republic , which was founded after the split of Czechoslovakia
into two countries, a move he opposed.  While his official authority as president was limited by
the Czech constitution, Havel used the presidency as a platform
for building what he called a “civil society.”  As one of history’s only philosopher-presidents, he sought
to educate his fellow citizens in speeches and regular radio
addresses about how a democracy was supposed to function.  ‘Always Grateful’  “I remember him with deep gratefulness,” Miroslava
Nemcova, the speaker of the Czech lower house of parliament,
said by phone. “He was at the wheel when we proceeded from
communism to democracy and I will always be grateful to him
personally because he changed my life with this.”  Nemcova recalled Havel’s habit of signing his name with a
little heart on his personal documents and called him a “man
who was a mixture of modesty and moral authority.”  The former Czech leader, whose motto during the transition
to democracy was “love will triumph over lies and hatred,” was
frail and leaned on a cane in his last public appearance on Dec.
10 when he greeted the  Dalai Lama  in Prague.  State television and radio immediately switched to
broadcasting highlights of Havel’s life yesterday and playing
music often associated with him, including songs by singer
Suzanne Vega and Frank Zappa. Politicians and former advisers
also began the process of contextualizing Havel’s place in
modern European history.  NATO, EU Entry  In the years after the fall of communism in 1989, Havel’s
reputation and his ideas brought international renown to his new
country. He was a strong advocate for expansion of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization and the European Union. Under his
presidency, the Czech Republic became a NATO member in March
1999 and joined the EU in 2004.  As a writer whose works covered a wide range of subjects,
from intimate musings of his own shortcomings to his views on
 Europe ’s future, he was lionized by artists, intellectuals and
politicians around the world and was perhaps better respected
abroad than he was at home.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  in a statement
called Havel “an inspiration” to human-rights defenders around
the world while singer  Lou Reed , whose band the Velvet
Underground had an influence on Havel, wrote on his webpage that
the ex-president was a “true hero in a world bereft.”  Havel’s dwindling popularity at home at the end of his
terms in office may now be re-evaluated by citizens, Czech
Foreign Minister Karel Schwarzenberg said in an interview on
Czech state-run television.  ‘Humbleness’  Schwarzenberg noted Havel’s “humbleness” and
“honorability” and “courage” and said citizens will “feel
this loss” for a long time as Czechs recall Havel’s importance.  Havel, who won more than a dozen international prizes for
his political and peacemaking efforts as well as his writings,
was imprisoned three times for opposing the communist regime in
 Czechoslovakia  and altogether spent almost five years behind
bars.  He was one of the first three spokesmen of a 1977 movement
known as Charter 77, in which a group of Czech intellectuals
called on the communist government to respect human rights.  Petr Uhl, a fellow-dissident and political activist who
served time in jail with Havel remembered sitting with Havel in
court waiting to be sentenced. Though he disagreed with Havel
over the president’s support for the U.S. invasion of  Iraq  and
Havel’s friendship with  George W. Bush , they remained friends,
he said in a phone interview yesterday.  Contrarian  “For all 20 years I appreciated that Havel was the
representative of a civic society, that he was against
consumerism and technocraticsm,” Uhl said.  Havel was born into a prominent Prague family. The
communist regime kept him from studying where he wanted to, so
he attended a technical university. He left his studies in 1957
and became a propsman in a Prague theater after completing his
military service.  He was eventually accepted to the Prague DAMU theater
academy. After the 1968 Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia, Havel
worked various jobs, including as a laborer in a brewery, a job
that went on to inspire his play “Audience.”  From 1960 to 1988, Havel wrote 17 plays, many of which were
performed on stages around the world. During the same period,
Havel became known for his political essays, which included
“The Power of the Powerless” and “Politics and Conscience.”  His final years were dominated by “Leaving,” a play about
a politician who finds difficulty relinquishing the power he had
come to enjoy. A film based on the play and directed by Havel
was released on March 22, 2011, and Havel attended the premier
in Prague.  He also worked on assembling his personal papers for a
library, which is in the planning stages in a building near the
castle he used to occupy as president.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net ;
Ladka Bauerova in Paris at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net ;
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  