-- Kim Jong Il’s Death May Trigger Nuclear Crisis
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2011-12-19T20:52:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/death-of-north-korea-s-kim-jong-il-might-present-nuclear-crisis-for-obama.html
The death of North Korean dictator
 Kim Jong Il  presents a potential crisis for President  Barack Obama , complicating U.S. efforts to press the regime to abandon
its nuclear arsenal and cease belligerent behavior.  The demise of the 70-year-old ruler -- who frustrated three
U.S. administrations with his pursuit of nuclear weapons,
threats toward American allies and economic mismanagement that
resulted in mass starvation -- ushers in a period of uncertainty
for the isolated communist regime and North  Asia . It increases
the danger of misjudgment on the Korean peninsula, where 1.7
million troops from North and South  Korea  and the U.S. square
off. The U.S. has 75,000 troops stationed in South Korea and
Japan and is bound by treaty to defend its allies.  “This is potentially a game-changing event,”  Victor Cha ,
a former chief U.S. negotiator for North Korean nuclear talks
under President George W. Bush, said in an interview. “If you
asked experts what would be the most likely scenario for North
Korea to collapse, the answer everyone would give you is ‘If Kim
Jong Il died today.’ We’re in that scenario.”  The transition in North Korea adds to risks for South
Korea, Asia’s fourth-largest economy. The Kospi index of shares
closed down 3.4 percent in  Seoul , and South Korea’s won sank 1.4
percent to 1,174.80 per dollar.  The prospect of a crisis in the region -- whether a
hardening of confrontational behavior or a collapse of the
impoverished state triggering a humanitarian emergency -- is
another foreign policy challenge for the Obama administration 11
months before the U.S. presidential election.  Asia ‘Pivot’  Uncertainty over  North Korea  thrusts Asia to the forefront
of the administration’s agenda, just weeks after Secretary of
State Hillary Clinton’s statement that the U.S. plans to
“pivot” its attention to Asia. Stability in Asia is essential
to Obama’s aim to make the region the engine of U.S. economic
recovery, largely through expanded trade.  North Korea was at the top of Clinton’s agenda today. She
met with her special representative for North Korea, Glyn Davies, and later held talks with Japanese Foreign Minister
 Koichiro Gemba , whose visit to  Washington  was planned before
Kim’s death.  “We both share a common interest in a peaceful and stable
transition in North Korea as well as in ensuring regional peace
and stability,” Clinton said at an appearance with Gemba.  ‘Deeply Concerned’  “We reiterate our hope for improved relations with the
people of North Korea and remain deeply concerned about their
well being,” Clinton added. Gemba said he and Clinton had
agreed on the need for “concrete action” by North Korea on the
nuclear issue.  At the White House, press secretary  Jay Carney  said the
U.S. has “no new concerns” about North Korea’s nuclear
arsenal. The U.S. is monitoring the situation in North Korea and
has consulted with allies South Korea and  Japan  as well as China
and  Russia , the other members of the six-party talks focused on
North Korea shedding its nuclear weapons, Carney said at a
briefing.  Strong Message  Kim’s death could scuttle what may have been the first U.S.
diplomatic breakthrough with the hermetic regime in a few years.
South Korea’s Yonhap News reported two days ago that the U.S.
would provide food aid to North Korea with the understanding
that the regime would suspend uranium enrichment. U.S. officials
declined to confirm the reports, and the death of Kim may put
any deal on hold.  “What needs to be done quickly is to openly offer North
Korea a reasonable path forward that does not appear to be
designed to undermine the regime, while in private sending a
strong message that there is no other option but for North Korea
to begin the process of opening up,” said Charles Pritchard,
who led U.S.-North Korea talks in 1997 and now is president of
the Korea Economic Institute in Washington.  Cha, now at the Center for Strategic and International
Studies in Washington, likened the focus on North Korea’s
tenuous situation to efforts to peer into a fishbowl.  “We’re all going to try to look in from the outside, and
at same time I think everyone will be very careful about not
sticking their hand in the fishbowl,” Cha said.  Worrisome Scenarios  Perhaps most probable among worrisome scenarios, according
to former U.S. officials, is that Kim’s death may prompt his
third-born son and anointed successor, Kim Jong Un, to
accelerate nuclear weapons development and menace his neighbors
in a show of force to consolidate his control.  “One question is: Will Kim Jong Un and others around him
do something to prove him being in command?” said Michael
Green, former National Security Council senior director for Asia
under President  George W. Bush . “In the next 48 hours we won’t
see that, but in the next weeks and months, I suspect we may.”  The Korea peninsula has technically been in a state of war
since the 1950-1953  Korean War  ended in a cease-fire rather than
a peace treaty.  North Korean media has reported that the country will
become “a full nuclear weapons state” in 2012; April will mark
the 100th anniversary of the birth of  Kim Il Sung , the founder
of the regime and its cult of dynastic personality. Kim Il Sung
died in 1994, after grooming his son Kim Jong Il for a decade
and a half to take over.  ‘Communist Monarchy’  Kim Jong Il’s third son has had far less preparation or
time to consolidate his authority. Believed to be 28 or 29, he
was publicly tapped for the job by his father only last year,
when he was appointed to the second-highest military post within
the ruling Workers’ Party of Korea.  “It’s the only communist monarchy in the world, and the
king is dead. And when the king dies, even when he set his
succession, there can still be rivalry and civil war,” said
Green, now at CSIS and  Georgetown University .  While the North has twice conducted underground nuclear
tests in the past five years, Green said U.S. officials are
concerned that the regime may go further by showcasing progress
on triggering devices and miniaturization of a nuclear payload,
or by launching more advanced ballistic missiles.  Bruce Klingner, a Korea specialist at the  Heritage
Foundation  in Washington and a former deputy chief for Korea at
the Central Intelligence Agency, said Kim Jong Un is unlikely to
abandon his father’s policies or his nuclear weapons as he seeks
to consolidate his position. Nuclear weapons, Klingner said in
an interview, “provide security against the U.S. and  South
Korea  in case of attacks” and force the world to “pay
attention to Pyongyang.”  Crippled Economy  Kim leaves behind an economy crippled by mismanagement,
crop failures, sanctions and a bungled currency revaluation.
North Korea’s economy is less than 3 percent the size of South
Korea’s and has relied on economic handouts since the 1990s,
when an estimated 2 million people died from famine. The  United
Nations  and the U.S. last year tightened economic sanctions that
were imposed on the North for its nuclear weapons activities and
two attacks in 2010 that killed 50 South Koreans.  The Obama administration has said that it resumed direct
talks in recent months after determining that engaging the
regime might lessen the risk of violent provocations.  “If there was a deal on food aid, whatever deal has been
struck is pretty much off the table now,” Bryce Wakefield of
the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, a
Washington-based research institute, said in an interview. The
U.S. wouldn’t be able to count on the North “to hold up its end
of the deal,” he said, and it will take time for North Korea to
determine its own direction.  Scott Snyder, a senior fellow for Korea studies at the
 Council on Foreign Relations  in Washington, said “it will be
more difficult to get answers or positions out of Pyongyang
under current circumstances.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  