-- Default Swaps Jump Most in BRICs as Gandhi Subsidizes Food: India Credit
-- B y   V   R a m a k r i s h n a n   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2011-12-19T20:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/default-swaps-jump-most-in-brics-as-gandhi-subsidizes-food-india-credit.html
India ’s plan to boost food subsidies
by 50 percent is threatening efforts to cut the  budget deficit ,
extending the biggest jump in bond risk among the largest
developing nations.  The cost to  protect  the debt of  State Bank of India , seen
as a proxy for the nation, against non-payment rose 234 basis
points in 2011 to 395 basis points, the most in three years,
according to data provider CMA. Credit-default swaps on China’s
government bonds increased 78 to 146, while those for Russia
climbed 124 to 270 and  Brazil ’s added 53 to 164.  Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is tapping public
finances to boost assistance as the economy of the nation, where
the  World Bank  says more than 75 percent of the people live on
less than $2 a day, slows. Nomura Holdings Inc. and Standard
Chartered Plc predict Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  will
raise his borrowing target for a second time in the fiscal year
ending on March 31.  “The passage of the food security bill may further
pressure the government’s finances and push its borrowings
higher,” A. Balasubramanian, the Mumbai-based chief executive
officer of Birla Sun Life Asset Management Co. who oversees the
equivalent of $12.1 billion in assets, said in an interview
yesterday. “Given the persistent fiscal problems, the
continuous supply of government debt will remain a negative
factor for the market.”  India’s cabinet approved the  Food Security Bill  to grant
the nation’s poor the right to buy food grains at discount
rates, Information and Broadcasting Minister Ambika Soni told
reporters in  New Delhi  on Dec. 18. The bill, aimed at meeting a
pledge by the ruling Congress party to spread the benefits of
economic growth, will need the consent of the parliament to
become law.  Wooing Voters  Prime Minister Singh is betting on the legislation, the
drafting of which was overseen by Congress party President  Sonia Gandhi , to woo voters before elections in five states in the
first half of next year. The government needs to boost food
subsidies by 320 billion rupees ($6 billion) to 950 billion
rupees a year to implement the policy, which will provide grains
to 64 percent of India’s 1.2 billion-strong population, about
768 million people, Food Minister K.V. Thomas told reporters
last week.  “The government’s eyes are on state elections next year
and the upcoming federal election and hence we will see such
populist measures,” Amol Agrawal, a Mumbai-based economist at
STCI Primary Dealer Ltd., said in an interview yesterday. “Such
measures may be good for the poor but will have negative
implications for fiscal health.”  Rising Yields  The rising  subsidy  burden will force the government to
increase its borrowings, maintaining “upward pressure” on
sovereign bond yields, Agrawal predicts.  Ten-year government bond  yields  in India climbed 40 basis
points, or 0.40 percentage point, this year, the most after
 Vietnam  among Asian local-currency debt markets, as inflation
accelerated and an  economic  slowdown threatened to crimp
government revenue and stymie efforts to narrow the budget
shortfall. Yields fell five basis points to 8.33 percent in
Mumbai yesterday, according to the central bank’s trading
system.  Finance Minister Mukherjee plans to cut the government’s
deficit to a four-year low of 4.6 percent of  gross domestic
product  by March 31, according to budget estimates.  Factory  output  in  Asia ’s third-largest economy fell 5.1
percent in October from a year earlier, the first contraction
since June 2009, as the highest borrowing costs in three years
damped demand for goods, government data showed this month. The
$1.7 trillion economy expanded 6.9 percent in the three months
ended September from a year earlier, the slowest pace since
2009, according to government data.  ‘Downward Trajectory’  “Given that we are on a downward growth trajectory, the
timing is not appropriate for coming up with policies like the
food subsidy bill that add to the fiscal burden when revenues
falter,” Vivek Rajpal, a Mumbai-based fixed-income strategist
at Nomura Holdings, said in an interview yesterday.  Japan ’s biggest brokerage predicts India’s government will
borrow 300 billion rupees more than already planned in the year
through March.  Standard Chartered  estimates the increase may be
at least 400 billion rupees. The  Finance Ministry  last increased
its annual debt-sale target by 13 percent in September to a
record 4.7 trillion rupees ($88.5 billion).  Lower Tax Collections  India’s Finance Ministry said in a Dec. 9 report that lower
tax collections in a slowing economy and delayed plans to sell
stakes in state-owned companies mean it may miss its goal to
narrow the budget gap. The economy may expand 7.25 percent to
7.75 percent this fiscal year, less than the 9 percent growth
estimated in February, the report showed. Nomura’s Rajpal
predicts the budget deficit will widen to 5.5 percent of GDP
from 4.7 percent the previous year.  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao has raised
the benchmark repurchase rate by 375 basis points since March
2010 to curb inflation. Subbarao left the repo rate unchanged at
a three-year high of 8.5 percent on Dec. 16, halting the fastest
round of rate increases on record in the country.  DSP Blackrock Investment Managers and Credit Suisse Group
AG predict that the Reserve Bank will cut rates in the first
half of 2012 as  inflation  slows, joining central banks from
Brazil to  China  in easing monetary policy. Brazil’s central bank
has cut the  Selic rate  by a total 150 basis points since August
to 11 percent, while the People’s Bank of China decreased the
reserve ratio for banks by 50 basis points from Dec. 5, the
first reduction since 2008.  Improving Bond Returns  Indian bonds are outperforming debt of the largest  emerging
markets  this month as the central bank predicts inflation to
slow to 7 percent by March from 9.11 percent in November.  Rupee-denominated notes have returned 2.22 percent in
December, JPMorgan & Chase Co. data show. Local-currency
securities lost 0.1 percent in Brazil and earned 1.1 percent in
China and 0.04 percent in  Russia .  “The outlook for bonds will improve over the next six
months,” Ganti N. Murthy, the Mumbai-based head of investments
at Peerless Mutual Fund, said in an interview yesterday.
“Falling inflation may increase returns on fixed-income
securities and prompt the central bank to cut rates from March
or April.”  Murthy predicts the the 10-year bond yield will fall to 8
percent by the end of March. Yields have already retreated 67
basis points from a three-year high of 9 percent reached last
month. Investors demand  extra yield  of 646 basis points to hold
India’s 10-year notes instead of similar-dated U.S. Treasuries.
The rupee fell 0.3 percent to 52.88 per dollar yesterday.  Election Pledge  Credit-default swaps on  State Bank  rose 44 basis points
this month, according to data from CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. The swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a company fail to adhere to its debt agreements. State
Bank is viewed as a proxy for India by investors as the nation
doesn’t have dollar-denominated debt.  The Food Security Bill will fulfill an election pledge by
Singh’s Congress party in 2009 that it will supply 25 kilograms
of rice or wheat at below-market rates to poor families each
month should the party be voted back into power.  Every Indian falling within the so-called priority category
will get 7 kilograms (15.4 pounds) of rice or wheat or millet a
month, according to Food Minister Thomas. Rice may be sold at 3
rupees per kilogram, wheat at 2 rupees and millet at 1 rupee.
That compares with market prices of 24 rupees a kilogram for
rice in New Delhi and 15 rupees a kilogram for wheat, according
to data provided by the Food Ministry.  “Once implemented, the food bill will add to the
expenditure burden and thus to the fiscal deficit as revenue
generation remains under pressure in the current low-growth
scenario,”  Anubhuti Sahay , a Mumbai-based economist at Standard
Chartered, said in an interview yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
V Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net ;
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  