-- Denmark Vows Action to Help Recovery of European Carbon Prices
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2011-12-19T17:49:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/denmark-vows-action-to-help-recovery-of-european-carbon-prices.html
Denmark , which will take over the
European Union presidency next year, said the decline of carbon
prices in the bloc’s emissions trading system to a four-year low
is “not sustainable” and pledged action to deal with it.  “It’s clear to everybody and to all  member states  that the
current situation with market prices of 6 euros per allowance is
not sustainable,” Danish climate and energy minister Martin Lidegaard told a briefing in Brussels today. “It’s neither
economically sustainable nor environmentally sustainable.”  Carbon allowances for delivery in December 2012 dropped as
much as 3.8 percent to 6.87 euros today on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange in  London  and closed at 7.38 euros.  “How to work this issue will depend a lot how we go with
energy efficiency directive and how we go with the energy road
map and the climate roadmap,” Lidegaard said. “It’s probably
too early to say how we’re going to deal with it but somehow
we’ll have to deal with it sooner or later.”  EU permits for December 2012 have lost 50 percent this year
amid speculation that the euro-area debt crisis may worsen and
concerns that oversupply of permits may increase following the
introduction of new energy-efficiency legislation in  Europe .  The environment committee of the European Parliament is due
to vote tomorrow on amendments to the Energy Efficiency
Directive proposed by the European Commission in June. They
include a requirement that would be imposed on the commission to
decide within six months of the law’s implementation to set
aside a number of carbon allowances.  Main Priority  Energy efficiency will be the main priority in the energy
and climate area during Denmark’s six-month presidency,
Lidegaard said. Other priorities will include moving forward the
debate on two policy papers presented by the commission earlier
this year, on climate and energy.  The climate road map, which charts the way for an 80
percent reduction in  greenhouse gases  by 2050, showed that the
EU may cut greenhouse gases 25 percent by 2020 compared with
1990, as long as it steps up energy-saving measures.  The strategy paper on energy, published earlier this month,
mapped the way to cut the output of greenhouse gases while
ensuring security of  energy supply  and competitiveness.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net ; 