-- Dickens’s London Bustled With Crowded Pubs, Bums, Odors: Review
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2011-12-19T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/dickens-s-london-bustled-with-crowded-pubs-bums-foul-odors-farah-nayeri.html
Charles Dickens  cherished  London ,
warts and all. Two centuries after his birth, a new exhibition
presents the U.K. capital through his eyes.  “Dickens and London” (through June 2012 at the  Museum of
London ) showcases a 19th-century capital city with throbbing
theaters, teeming pubs, billboard-bearing “sandwich men,” and
vagabonds sleeping on the street.  On the face of it, the place hasn’t changed all that
radically. The show includes a recently directed London-by-night
movie, voiced over with Dickens texts. While modern-day
sidewalks crawl with fast-food stalls and nightclub bouncers,
they also host homeless people in sleeping bags.  Dickens is the perfect theme for the Museum of London -- an
excuse to sift through its extensive collection for an evocative
array of period prison-door knockers, pawnbrokers’ tickets, and
sewing kits, none of which were specific to Dickens.  The showstoppers are those items that can be traced
directly back to him: the manuscript of “Great Expectations”
(in tiny cursive, with crossed-out words), the peeling leather
desk on which it was written, a signed check, a soup ladle, and
a shopping list instructing the butler to buy cooked ham and
Yorkshire pie from  Fortnum & Mason , the Piccadilly superstore.  If you care to read the captions, even the generic displays
have a Dickens link of some kind. An 1817 rent-arrears notice,
for example, is paired with a relevant quote from “David
Copperfield,” instantly bringing the yellowed document to life.  Damp Straw  Dickens was born in February 1812 in Portsmouth. His
father, a clerk in the Navy Pay Office, was then posted to
London. Ten-year-old Charles traveled to the capital in a
stagecoach paved with damp straw, and settled there, marrying
the daughter of a newspaper editor and fathering 10 children.  The show opens with a grand 1859 portrait by William Powell
Frith showing Dickens in a velvet smoking jacket, one arm draped
over the back of his chair. To Frith, here was a man “who had
reached the topmost rung of a very high ladder, and was
perfectly aware of his position.” Dickens found the picture “a
little too much.”  Nearby are images of the author’s family: One shows his
matronly, bonneted wife; another has him flanked by two grown
daughters at their Kent country house. Next to them is a photo
of his secret mistress Ellen Ternan, curls tumbling down her
back. Aged 18 when they met, she was cast in his plays (posters
are on display) and accompanied him till death.  Home for Women  Dickens also looked out for “fallen women” --prostitutes.
He created a home for them in London, and helped a group of
“distressed needlewomen” get a fresh start by migrating to
 Australia .  The author was even more exercised about child labor,
having experienced it himself. At age 12, he was sent by his
debt-ridden parents to work in a “blacking” (boot polish)
factory, where he slapped labels on polish containers (examples
of the stoneware jars are shown).  The factory is pictured in an 1830 painting by John Harley,
“Hungerford Stairs.” Dickens drew inspiration from it in
“David Copperfield,” describing “a crazy old house with a
wharf of its own, abutting on the water when the tide was in,
and on the mud when the tide was out, and literally overrun with
rats.”  Dickens’s London had a dark and ugly side, and it sometimes
got smelly. In July 1858, the novelist lived through the “Great
Stink,” when flushing toilets proliferated without a proper
sewage system to accommodate them.  Crossing the river was “most horrible,” Dickens recalled.
“I can certify that the offensive smells, even in that short
whiff, have been of a most head-and-stomach-distending nature.”  It still didn’t damp his affection for the city, which he
termed a place of “wealth and beggary, vice and virtue, guilt
and innocence, repletion and the direst hunger, all treading on
each other and crowding together.”  “Dickens and London” ends June 10, 2012, at the Museum of
London, 150 London Wall, London EC2Y 5HN. Information:
 http://www.museumoflondon.org.uk  or +44-20-7001-9844.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London at 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 