-- East Europe May Tap IMF Aid to Plug Financing Gap, Bank Says
-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 2011-12-19T15:31:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/east-europe-may-tap-imf-aid-to-plug-financing-gap-morgan-says.html
Eastern European countries may need
to tap existing international support packages or request more
aid from the  International Monetary Fund  should capital outflows
from western banks in the region deepen.  Countries with no assistance currently in place should
negotiate international aid packages to “boost confidence
enough to ensure that the bear case does not materialize,”
economists Pasquale Diana and Jaroslaw Strzalkowski at Morgan
Stanley in  London  wrote in an e-mailed report today.  Eastern  Europe , where western European banks control about
80 percent of the banking industry, risks a financing gap as
parent banks are being squeezed by deteriorating loan quality
and slowing economic growth. Capital outflows would exacerbate
the region’s credit crunch and hurt domestic demand. Parent
banks directly lent 139 billion euros ($181 billion) to eastern
Europe, Morgan Stanley estimates.  “We look at deleveraging pressures and find that
aggressive retrenching, not our base case, by western European
banks could leave a funding gap in central and eastern Europe
such that most countries except the  Czech Republic  would
probably need to tap existing support packages or negotiate more
assistance with the IMF and the European Union,” the report
said.  ‘Big Bang’  Hungary may need around 12 billion euros in IMF aid “to
restore confidence,” it said.  Romania ’s precautionary credit
line of 5.4 billion euros with international lenders “may not
be enough under a severe” deleveraging scenario.  “We continue to think there is no case for a ‘big bang’
withdrawal from the region,” the report said. “For the banks
in particular, we think that the IMF, European Commission
involvement in any given country in central eastern Europe would
be particularly encouraging.”  Austrian regulators restricted new lending to 1.1 times the
deposits and wholesale funding that the eastern European units
of Raiffeisen, Erste Group Bank AG, and UniCredit SpA’s Bank
 Austria  AG are able to raise on their own, Austrian regulators
said on Nov. 21. This would limit their ability to fund credit
growth with loans from the parent company.  Erste, Raiffeisen and other Austrian banks collectively
are the biggest lenders in eastern Europe, having loaned $266
billion as of June, according to the  Bank for International
Settlements . That number doesn’t include Bank Austria, whose
lending is attributed to  Italy  by the BIS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  