-- Draghi Says ‘Substantial Downside Risks’ to Economy Remain
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2011-12-19T17:38:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/ecb-s-draghi-says-substantial-downside-risks-to-economy-remain.html
European Central Bank President
Mario Draghi comments on the economic outlook and ECB policy.  He made the comments at the European Parliament in Brussels
today.  On the ECB and the European treaty:  “I will remind all of us, the treaty specifies what our
remit is -- to ensure  price stability . The treaty also forbids
monetary financing. We want to act within the treaty.”  “To undertake any other behavior would negatively affect
the credibility of our institution. That’s what we have to keep
in mind -- losing credibility, especially for your central bank,
is not going to do any good.”  On the ECB and bond purchases:  The program is “neither eternal nor infinite.”  “The SMP has been in place for some time. All countries,
with admittedly different degrees of speed and success, that had
to taken action, are taking action.” They “are committed to
results.”  “The SMP had been instituted with the objective of
restoring monetary transmission channels when they were
impaired. It buys into bonds whenever the ECB sees that monetary
policy cannot be activated,” when it “is paralyzed, it needs
to be reactivated.”  “The sovereign bonds market is a very big market, so in
this sense it’s one of the most powerful transmission channels
of monetary policy.”  On inflation:  “Since the last hearing in October, the ECB has taken a
number of steps to ensure it will continue to deliver price
stability in the medium term in an environment that is
challenging.”  “Risks to the medium term outlook for price developments
remain broadly balanced.”  “We still have to say that the likelihood of inflation
isn’t very high.”  “We never pre-commit when we talk about lowering  interest
rates .”  On economic growth:  “Financial market tensions are continuing to dampen
economic growth.”  The economy “should recover, albeit very gradually, in the
course of 2012.”  “Substantial downside risks to the economic outlook
nevertheless remain.”  On ECB measures and bank funding:  The ECB’s measures “will ensure banks continue to have
access to stable funding also at longer maturities.”  The liquidity measures also “help to ensure the official
interest rates set by the ECB are transmitted to the economy”
and help to ensure price stability.  “We know that banks are experiencing now” a “very
serious funding constraint.”  “We know that banks experience now and will be
experiencing even more so a very significant funding constraint,
especially in the first quarter of 2012. Not just then, but the
whole year. What we want to avoid is a very severe credit
tightening that will constrain lending” and cause a recession.  “If we can reduce the funding pressure, that is a good
part of our answer” to helping economic growth.  “Monetary policy cannot do everything, but we’re trying to
do our best to avoid a credit crunch that might come from a lack
of funding. We have to be extremely careful here because there
may be other reasons that create a credit crunch. We are
addressing funding. We think the measures will help.”  “Banks represent about 80 percent of lending to the euro
area. The banking channel is crucial to the supply of credit.”  “The response of our monetary policy decision last week
was basically aimed at addressing the funding pressures of the
banking system in the euro area.”  “The pressure that bond markets will be experiencing is
very significant, if not unprecedented.”  “At this point in time, the priority has to be ensuring we
don’t have a recession coming from a tightening, coming from
funding pressure.”  On eurobonds:  “Eurobonds might make sense in a fiscal union, but if you
don’t have a fiscal union, one should ask the following
question. Would it be sensible where counties have joint”
issuance, “and at the same time, they spend separately?”  “If you have separate countries that spend separately, you
cannot think about common issuance.”  On bank capital:  “There’s no alternative to recapitalizing banks.”  “Recapitalizing the banks has become more difficult than
it was anticipated when we decided to do this.”  On the European Union summit:  “This council has really brought about the breakthrough in
terms of a commitment to sound fiscal rules.”  “The new fiscal compact is an essential signal showing a
clear trajectory for the future development of the euro area.”  The fiscal compact “frames expectations both of citizens
and financial markets.”  “There is now greater flexibility in euro-area stability
mechanisms to act as backstops.”  The “clarification of private sector involvement is also
very helpful in reassuring investors.”  On U.K. position at European summit:  “If we can in a sense, go back to work together for
 Europe , for the European Union, it’s infinitely better than
being separate. The euro-area members have specific issues and
problems. We have to find a solution to moving together,” while
noting “the fact that euro area members have specific problems.
It’s difficult, as we saw on Dec. 9.”  “The expectation of the summit being a silver bullet was
there and it wasn’t realistic. It should be compared to previous
summits. The summit was a step forward.”  On credit ratings:  “Credit ratings have a direct impact on market functioning
and the wider economy.”  Ratings companies must use “appropriate underlying
methodologies.”  “There should be no substitute for market participants and
financial institutions to carry out their own” reviews.  “We should ask ourselves the most important question. What
can we do to replace the ratings of credit ratings agencies? We
want to have a much more complete set of credit assessment than
just the one we have today, based on credit-rating agencies.”  On  France  rating review:  “I don’t know whether France will lose its AAA, I
certainly wish not. We shouldn’t make too much of these rating
changes of these agencies.”  “It’s likely if France loses its rating, the ratings of
other countries could be changed.”  On threat of a euro breakup:  There is “no doubt whatsoever about the strength of the
euro, about its permanence, about its irreversibility.”  On government austerity measures:  “Austerity creates a short-term contraction, we can’t
dispute this.”  “What should we actually do to mitigate and ultimately
offset this contraction? If the budgetary situation of a country
is unsustainable,” the “first response must come from national
governments. And we certainly welcome the developments that have
been taken place in some countries.”  ‘If you want confidence to return, you have to have trust
return in the euro area, between countries and citizens and
their governments.’’  On structural reforms:  “I’ve been advocating the same kind of monitoring of
structural reforms as we have on budgetary side.”  On the  U.S. economy :  “I wouldn’t go as far to say that the U.S. isn’t in need
of structural reforms, I think they do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  