-- Mechel Said to Study Shifting IPO of Mining Unit to New York
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2011-12-19T13:42:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/mechel-said-to-study-shifting-ipo-of-mining-unit-to-new-york.html
OAO Mechel (MTL) ,  Russia ’s largest coking
coal producer, may move an initial public offering of its coal
and iron-ore mining unit to  New York  next year after delaying a
planned $2 billion sale in London in September.  The deal may take place in April or May, three people with
knowledge of the matter said, declining to be identified,
because the information is confidential. No decision has yet
been made, they said. Mechel’s press office declined to comment.  The IPO of OAO Mechel-Mining, as the unit is called, was
the largest sale planned in Russia’s metals and mining industry
this year. The plan was delayed in September because of  Europe ’s
debt crisis and after global stock markets declined, people said
at the time.  “New York offers higher trading volumes than London,”
Dmitry Smolin, Uralsib Capital analyst said by phone from
Moscow. “If that is the target, than it makes sense.”  Mechel (MTLR)  may take advantage of the fact that U.S. investors
already know the company, Smolin said. Mechel is the only
Russian metals and mining producer listed on the New York Stock
Exchange in a 2004 IPO.  The unit may become the first Russian company to sell
shares in New York since the sale of Yandex NV, owners of
Russia’s most popular search engine, raised $1.4 billion in May
on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Mechel  shares  rose as much as 1.8 percent today and traded
up 1.4 percent at 286.20 rubles at 5:39 p.m. in Moscow. The
shares have fallen 68 percent this year.  Mechel-Mining picked JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley
and UBS AG to manage the  London  IPO. The company planned to sell
10 percent to 15 percent of its stock for $1.5 billion to $2
billion, people familiar with the process said in July.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  