-- Egypt’s Army Blames Protesters for Violence
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2011-12-19T15:54:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/egypt-s-army-blames-protesters-for-violence.html
Egypt ’s military accused protesters
of “methodical” attacks and said soldiers showed self-
restraint as clashes continued for the fourth day in central
Cairo, leaving 12 people dead and hundreds injured.  Groups of demonstrators surrounded the bloodstains of a
protester they said was killed by a bullet to the head when
soldiers charged at dawn into Tahrir square, the focus of the
revolt that toppled President  Hosni Mubarak . In addition to the
deaths, 815 people were injured, the state-run Middle East  News
Agency  said.  The violence is the latest confrontation between protesters
and the military, which took interim power after Mubarak was
ousted in February. The unrest threatens to further undermine
the ailing economy, with the benchmark  stock index  down more
than 46 percent this year and the country missing its target for
the sale of Treasury bills today.  “The ruling supreme military council is becoming more
rigid and aggressive and appears incapable of marginalizing
protesters without resorting to violence,” Hani Sabra, an
analyst on the region for the New York-based  Eurasia Group , said
today by e-mail. “The military appears incapable of discipline
and has failed to capitalize on its popularity.”  Videos posted online and broadcast on private television
stations showed troops dragging demonstrators, beating them with
batons and stomping on them even after they lay motionless.  ‘Psychological Pressure’  The “heroes” of the armed forces have put up with a lot
since the start of the anti-Mubarak revolt and showed “self-
restraint,” Major General Adel Emara, a military council
member, told reporters today in Cairo. He urged people to
understand the type of “psychological pressure” that the
soldiers were under, and promised to investigate the unrest,
saying claims that troops used excessive force against
protesters are “false.”  “The events since the start of the revolution and to this
day have showed methodical planning to destroy the state,”
Emara said. “Everyone should know that this is a watershed
moment and that the homeland is in danger.”  Each side accuses the other of starting the violence on
Dec. 16 outside the Cabinet building, where protesters have been
camping for three weeks to demand that the generals hand power
to civilians immediately and that the trials of former officials
for the killing of protesters be expedited. The military has
said it won’t relinquish control until a presidential election
is held, by the end of June, and there is a new constitution.  “I am asking you to come down and demand your rights,”
protester Ahmed el Gammal yelled to people visiting the square
to see the aftermath of the clashes. “Maybe one day you will be
in his place,” he said as he pointed to bloodstains on the
street of the protester he said was killed today in clashes.  ‘Universal Rights’  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said she is
“deeply concerned about the continuing reports of violence in
Egypt,” according to an e-mailed statement. “I urge Egyptian
security forces to respect and protect the universal rights of
all Egyptians, including the rights to peaceful free expression
and assembly.”  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon is “highly
alarmed by the excessive use of force employed by the security
forces against protesters and calls for the transitional
authorities to act with restraint and uphold human rights,
including the right to peaceful protest,” according to a
statement posted on the UN website yesterday.  Votes for Islamists  Egypt is in the middle of parliamentary elections that have
shown strong support for Islamist groups. Turnout in the second
phase of the vote was about 67 percent, the head of the
electoral commission, Abdel Moez Ibrahim, said late yesterday on
state television. The Freedom and Justice Party, an affiliate of
the Muslim Brotherhood movement, won more than 39 percent of the
party-list votes, the largest share in the second round, the
state-run Al Ahram newspaper reported.  Egypt missed its fundraising target at a sale of three- and
five-year bonds today, selling 3.5 billion pounds ($581 million)
out of the 5 billion pounds it had sought. The EGX 30 Index
closed 0.5 percent higher today, following s 3.5 percent fall
yesterday that was the most since Nov. 22. The index is down
more than 46 percent this year.  If the unrest continues, it will “increase pressure on
vital economic indicators such as currency reserves, foreign
direct investment and tourism,” said  Wael Ziada , Cairo-based
head of research at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE. “The longer such a
situation persists, the longer is the recovery.”  In the North Sinai, the pipeline that exports Egyptian
natural gas to Jordan and  Israel  was attacked for the 10th time
this year.  The government will discuss austerity measures to reduce
record borrowing costs, MENA said Dec. 16. The economy expanded
at an annual rate of 1.8 percent in the fiscal year through
June, compared with 5.1 percent in the previous 12 months,
according to government figures. Quarterly growth for the three
months through September was 0.5 percent, according to a Cabinet
briefing document shown to Bloomberg News last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maram Mazen in Cairo at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 