-- Emerging Stocks Sink on Kim Jong Il Death
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2011-12-19T22:15:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/emerging-stocks-drop-most-in-three-weeks-after-kim-jong-il-death.html
Emerging-market stocks fell the most
in three weeks, adding to last week’s losses, amid concern the
death of Kim Jong Il will increase tension on the Korean
peninsula.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell 1.7 percent to 888.77
at the close in  New York , the lowest since Nov. 25.  South
Korea ’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  pared its losses to 3.4 percent after
dropping as much as 4.9 percent when news of the North Korean
leader’s death was made public. Chinese shares fell 0.3 percent
and Brazilian stocks retreated 1.4 percent while Hungary’s index
gained the most in two weeks.  Kim died on Dec. 17 from a heart attack, the official
Korean Central News Agency said today. A government statement
called on North Koreans to “loyally follow” his son, Kim Jong Un. South Korea called in police officers for emergency duty and
said the central bank would take steps to stabilize financial
markets if needed.  “What investors don’t like most is uncertainty,” said Im Jeong Jae, a Seoul-based fund manager at Shinhan BNP Paribas
Asset Management Co., which oversees about $28 billion. “Amid
very limited information over his death, it’s very tricky to
guess what will happen in the communist nation as well as the
impact on regional security.”  Stocks also declined as European Central Bank President
Mario Draghi said that substantial risks to the economy remain
and that the bank can’t increase government bond purchases to
fight the debt crisis.  Brazil,  Hungary   The MSCI Emerging Market Index has fallen 23 percent this
year, compared with an 11 percent drop in the MSCI World Index,
as Europe’s crisis adds to concern tighter monetary policies in
 China , Brazil and India will curb growth. Shares on the
developing-nation gauge trade at 9.8 times estimated earnings.  Brazil’s Bovespa Index dropped for a fourth day to the
lowest since Nov. 29. Economists projected consumer prices will
increase 6.52 percent this year, breaching the upper limit of
policy makers’ target range, according to a central bank survey
published today.  Homebuilder  Gafisa SA  plunged 13 percent, the most in the
index.  Lojas Americanas SA , Brazil’s second-largest retailer by
market value, fell 4.5 percent, the most in 12 weeks.  Mol Nyrt. (MOL) , the biggest refiner in Hungary, jumped 6 percent
after a report by the Independent on Sunday that Exxon Mobil
Corp. is considering a bid for Gulf Keystone Petroleum Ltd.,
Mol’s exploration partner, to develop oil resources in
Kurdistan, a region of Iraq. The BUX gauge, where Mol has a 34
percent weighting, rose 2.7 percent.  Defying Threats  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  retreated as much as 2.7
percent after home prices posted their worst performance this
year, before closing down 0.3 percent. The benchmark has tumbled
21 percent in 2011, exceeding last year’s 14 percent decline, as
shipments to Europe, China’s biggest export market, slowed
because of the region’s debt crisis and as the government raised
 interest rates  to curb inflation.  Kim’s regime defied threats of United Nations sanctions,
and in 2009 tested a second nuclear device and a ballistic
missile capable of striking Alaska, and an international
investigation blamed his government for the March 2010 sinking
of a South Korean naval vessel which killed 46 sailors.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  lost 3.6 percent and  LG Chem Ltd. (051910) 
retreated 5.2 percent.  Huneed Technologies (005870)  led gains among South
Korea’s defense-related companies in Seoul trading.  Huneed, a military communications equipment manufacturer,
jumped by the daily limit of 15 percent.  Victek Co. (065450) , which makes
electronic warfare equipment, also surged 15 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to hold developing-nation
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage points, to 432, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  