-- EPA Final Rule for Coal Plants Deemed ‘Unfortunate’ by Industry
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2011-12-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/epa-final-rule-for-coal-plants-deemed-unfortunate-by-industry.html
The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency’s rule to curb toxic emissions from coal-fired  power
plants  drew criticism from an industry lobbyist and praise from
an environmentalist even before it is released this week.  The regulation, the most-expensive order aimed at companies
being considered by President Barack Obama’s administration, was
signed by the agency Dec. 16 and is set to be published as early
as today or tomorrow. Industry groups had urged the EPA to give
companies an additional year to comply.  “The final rule is expected to be pretty close to the
proposed rule, which is unfortunate,”  Scott Segal , a lobbyist
at Bracewell & Giuliani LLC in Washington, representing
operators of coal-fired plants such as  Southern Co. (SO) , said
yesterday in an e-mail. The “rules will impose significant
costs on consumers and on industries that depend on affordable
and reliable power to remain competitive.”  The rule, estimated to cost $11 billion when proposed by
the EPA this year, was initiated after a federal court threw out
standards issued by the  Bush administration  to limit mercury
pollution. Under the proposal, plants have three years to
install controls curbing the release of toxic materials when
coal is burned to generate electricity.  The final regulation includes details for how companies
such as  American Electric Power Co. (AEP)  and Southern can apply for
additional time to cut emissions of mercury, arsenic and acid
gases, said Howard Learner, executive director of the
Environmental Law & Policy Center in  Chicago .  ‘Modest Waivers’  “There are some provisions for EPA to grant modest
waivers,” Learner said in an interview, citing a briefing on
the rule. Overall, “these standards mean power plants will
invest in modern pollution controls, and that investment will
create jobs, cleaner air and better public health.”  The Washington Post reported in its Dec. 17 edition that
the regulation was signed in time to meet a deadline negotiated
with a federal court.  “We will make details available when we are ready to make
an announcement,” Betsaida Alcantara, a spokeswoman for the
EPA, said in an e-mail Dec. 17. “As we have made clear, any
standard will maximize flexibilities, while providing extensive
public health protections from dangerous pollutants.”  The EPA proposal incorporates three separate limits: one
for mercury, a second for acid gases and a third for particulate
matter, which is used to target emissions of metals such as
chromium, selenium and cadmium. Taken together, the health and
economic benefits from cleaning up pollution will dwarf the
costs to industry, according the agency’s analysis.  Estimated Costs  As recently as Dec. 14, the leaders of the industry trade
group, Edison Electric Institute, met with White House
officials, according to records published on the White House
website. The group has organized the effort to garner extra time
to comply with regulation.  The agency has resisted the industry push. Under the rules
of the  Clean Air Act , plant operators get three years to install
pollution scrubbers. The EPA has said it will grant additional
time on a case-by-case basis.  The final rule gives the companies details for seeking more
time to comply, in limited instances, Learner said.  American Electric, based in Columbus,  Ohio , said in June
that proposed EPA rules would force it to close parts or all of
11 power plants, eliminating 600 jobs. Complying with the rules
would cost $8 billion, most of it on cleaning up or shutting
plants that lack pollution-control equipment, it said.  Lives, Jobs  The EPA says the rule would save lives and create 9,000
more jobs than would be lost, as power plants invest billions of
dollars to install pollution scrubbing systems or build cleaner
natural gas plants. It estimates the regulation could prevent
17,000 premature deaths from toxic emissions.  Segal said that the agency’s job estimate is off.  “For every one job that may be created in order to comply
with the rule, we expect four higher-paying energy and
manufacturing jobs to be lost,” he said.  When the EPA signs the final regulation that means it has
been cleared by the White House Office of Management and Budget,
which reviews proposed agency rules. The White House scrapped
another, more expensive, EPA proposal to curb smog-causing ozone
in September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in  Washington  at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  