-- Merkel Backs German President as Scrutiny Grows of Business Ties
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2011-12-19T15:05:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/merkel-backs-german-president-as-scrutiny-grows-of-business-ties.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  came
to the defense of President  Christian Wulff  for a second time as
her party ally faced growing scrutiny of a private home loan and
vacations at the homes of business people.  “The president is doing an excellent job,” Merkel said
today in Pristina, the capital of  Kosovo , where she was visiting
German troops. She welcomed Wulff’s decision to make available
documents related to the loan, saying that she has “full
confidence” in him.  Wulff, elected to the largely  ceremonial  post in June 2010
with Merkel’s backing, has been the focus of German media
attention since Bild reported on Dec. 13 that he received a loan
of 500,000 euros ($651,000) from a businessman’s wife in 2008 to
buy a house. “Wulff teeters,” the newspaper headlined a front-
page story yesterday.  A former deputy leader of Merkel’s Christian Democratic
Union party, Wulff listed six vacations he spent at the homes of
business friends while he was state premier from 2003 to 2010.
The stays were with “private friends” and in accordance with
state ethics rules, Bonn-based lawyer Gernot Lehr said in a
statement issued on Wulff’s behalf yesterday.  Three of the stays were with Egon Geerkens and his wife
Edith, who Wulff says gave the loan to the then-premier and his
wife. A savings bank in Osnabrueck, Wulff’s home town, issued
the loan as a cashier’s check drawn on the Bundesbank, the
German central bank, according to a Dec. 16 statement by Lehr.  Egon Geerkens said he negotiated the loan with Wulff and
sought to keep it private,  Der Spiegel  reported in this week’s
edition. The money came from a joint account with his wife, the
magazine said, citing multiple interviews with Geerkens.  Wulff hasn’t addressed details of the Spiegel report, which
quoted Geerkens as saying, “I didn’t want some bank trainee
seeing that so much money was going to Wulff from me.”  Wulff “at no time had reason to doubt that the loan sum,
as described when the loan was agreed, came from the fortune of
Mrs. Edith Geerkens,” said Lehr, the lawyer. Documents related
to the loan are being made available by Wulff’s lawyers today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  