-- Etihad Will Pay $94.9 Million to Increase Its Stake in Air Berlin to 29.2%
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l   a n d   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 2011-12-19T14:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/etihad-to-raise-air-berlin-stake-to-29-2-as-carriers-increase-cooperation.html
Etihad Airways  agreed to provide  Air
Berlin Plc  with $350 million in equity financing and funds for
planes, helping the German carrier to ride out the slowdown and
boosting the Gulf company’s challenge to  Deutsche Lufthansa AG. (LHA)   Abu Dhabi-based Etihad will lift its Air Berlin stake from
2.99 percent to 29.2 percent by buying 31.6 million new shares
for 72.9 million euros ($95 million) while providing five-year
financing facilities of as much as $255 million for new jets.  The plan features a code-sharing deal that will help Etihad
win traffic in Air Berlin’s key markets of  Germany ,  Austria ,
 Switzerland  and  Spain , Chief Executive Officer James Hogan said
in an interview, heightening competition with Lufthansa,  Air
France-KLM (AF)  Group and British Airways parent IAG. The German
company, unprofitable since 2007, gets more time to restructure.  “Lufthansa won’t be happy,” said  Joe Gill , an analyst at
Bloxham Stockbrokers in Dublin. “The big three are concerned
about what Middle Eastern carriers are going do next and this is
a very tangible move. For Air Berlin, this on its own won’t sort
things out, but it provides a major plank in providing options.”  Shares Jump  Air Berlin,  Europe ’s third-largest discount airline after
 Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  and  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) ,  rose  as much as 28 cents,
or 12 percent, to 2.59 euros and was trading 8.2 percent higher
at 2.50 euros as of 12:54 p.m. in  Frankfurt , paring the stock’s
decline this year to 32 percent. Cologne-based Lufthansa was
priced up 1.9 percent at 9.10 euros.  Etihad, which is closely held, bought the new shares at
Dec. 16’s close of 2.31 euros, agreeing to keep them for two
years and not increase its stake in that time. As a non-European
airline Etihad can’t take a controlling position and Hogan said
the deal is a “one-off,” with no interest in adding more stock.  According to the arrangement,  Air Berlin  will shift Middle
Eastern flights from Dubai to  Abu Dhabi , Etihad’s hub, attaching
its code to 24 of the Gulf company’s 82 destinations to provide
feeder traffic on routes to  Asia  and  Australia . It will also
drop a route to Bangkok and offer tickets only through its ally.  Etihad, the third-largest Middle Eastern carrier after
Emirates and Qatar Airlines Ltd., will codeshare to 36 of Air
Berlin’s 171 destinations. The airlines estimate next year’s
revenue boost at as much 45 million euros apiece.  Problem Solved  Hogan, who will join a 17-person Air Berlin board as vice
chairman, along with Etihad Chief Financial Officer James Rigney, said joint distribution and maintenance will also
produce unspecified savings.  The two airlines, which plan to close the agreement in the
first quarter, will also seek antitrust immunity to coordinate
networks, sales and marketing, according to a statement.  “Air Berlin was having problems financing its fleet and by
doing this deal we solve that,” Hogan said by telephone. “We
get considerable access to their distribution and that means we
can strengthen the seat factor and the quality of yield and our
operations out of Germany and into Germany.”  Bloxham’s Gill said that today’s announcement marks a major
change for Etihad and the Gulf carriers, which have hitherto
operated as single-brand businesses and built inter-continental
transfer hubs through large aircraft orders with Airbus SAS and
 Boeing Co. (BA) , rather than via alliances and investments.  ‘Alarm Bells’  “This is a material shift in terms of branding and getting
deeply involved with a European carrier, so it should be ringing
alarm bells for Lufthansa and, if they do this anywhere else,
IAG and Air France-KLM,” he said.  Air Berlin interim CEO Hartmut Mehdorn said  top shareholder 
Esas Holding AS, parent of Turkish discount operator Pegasus
Airlines, backs the agreement, which dilutes existing holdings.  As of Sept. 30 Esas held a 16.5 percent stake following an
investment in 2009. Hans-Joachim Knieps, one of Air Berlin’s
original backers, held 7.5 percent, and Tui Travel Plc owned 6.9
percent gleaned through a transfer of some of its flights.  Mehdorn, who took over after Joachim Hunold quit in August,
has been seeking partners to shore up the Berlin-based company’s
finances after third-quarter operating profit fell 44 percent.  The discount carrier is grounding planes as it slashes
routes and reduces frequencies to cut capacity by more than one
million seats in order to save 250 million euros and pare debt
by 50 million euros. It also plans to postpone the purchase of
19 jets in 2012 and 2013, shaving $508 million from investments,
and to close bases in Erfurt and Dortmund next winter.  Etihad and Air Berlin together carry more than 40 million
passengers a year and serve 239 destinations, with sales
totaling $9 billion. The German company will go ahead with plans
to join the  Oneworld group of airlines  next year, according to
today’s statement, even though the alliance includes BA owner
International Consolidated Airlines Group SA. Oneworld has its
offices in  New York  and couldn’t be reached for comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;
Tamara Walid in Dubai at   twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas in Berlin at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  