-- EU Renews Chinese Pool-Disinfectant Taxes to Aid Ercros, Fluidra
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2011-12-19T17:09:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/eu-renews-chinese-pool-disinfectant-taxes-to-aid-ercros-fluidra.html
The European Union renewed tariffs
on a swimming-pool disinfectant from China for another five
years to help Spanish producers  Ercros SA (ECR)  and Fluidra SA compete
against cheaper imports.  The EU reimposed the duties as high as 42.6 percent on
imports from China of trichloroisocyanuric acid. The bloc
introduced the levies in October 2005 to punish Chinese
exporters of the chemical for selling it in  Europe  below cost, a
practice known as dumping.  “It is likely that dumping will continue on the union
market if the current anti-dumping measures are removed,” the
27-nation EU said in a decision today in Brussels. “The
situation of the union industry would deteriorate and its very
existence would be jeopardized.” The five-year renewal will
take effect after being published in the EU  Official Journal  by
Jan. 6.  China ’s share of the EU market for trichloroisocyanuric
acid expanded to between 50 percent and 60 percent in the 12
months through June 2010 from 40 percent to 50 percent in 2007,
according to the bloc. The Chinese share previously grew nearly
fivefold to 50 percent in the period between April 2003 and
March 2004 compared with 2000, the bloc said when introducing
the anti-dumping duties.  European chemical industry group  Cefic  asked in July 2010
for a prolongation of the anti-dumping duties on behalf of
producers that account for more than 90 percent of EU output of
trichloroisocyanuric acid. In its decision today, the EU
described Ercros and Fluidra, both of which are based in
Barcelona, as the bloc’s “two major” producers.  Cefic’s Request  In response to Cefic’s request, the EU in October 2010
opened a probe that culminated with today’s decision. The
original anti-dumping duties, which had been due to lapse in
October last year, automatically stayed in place during the
inquiry into whether to renew them. The levies range from 3.2
percent to 42.6 percent, depending on the Chinese manufacturer.  When it opened the expiration review last year, the EU
let lapse anti-dumping duties as high as 25 percent on
trichloroisocyanuric acid from the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at   jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  