-- EU Should Consider JI Carbon Offset Limits for 2013, Groups Say
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2011-12-19T17:43:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/eu-should-consider-ji-carbon-offset-limits-for-2013-groups-say.html
The European Union should consider
controlling the use of some Emission Reduction Units in the
third phase of its carbon market, the world’s largest, said
research groups including the Stockholm Environment Institute.  ERUs stem from the Joint Implementation mechanism of the
1997  Kyoto Protocol  and some are governed by nations with weaker
rules than those overseen by the  United Nations ,  the groups said 
in a report published Dec. 16 on the EU’s website. Phase three
of the EU market begins in 2013.  In a separate report, the four research groups said the EU
lawmakers may consider banning or discounting emission credits
generated by large hydropower projects in the Clean Development
Mechanism because the projects may have proceeded even if they
didn’t receive approval to earn the credits. The four groups are
the Stockholm institute, AEA Technology Plc, the Centre for
European Policy Studies and CO2logic.  The EU said Dec. 15 it doesn’t plan to propose “anytime
soon” any ban on UN Certified Emission Reduction credits from
large coal and hydropower projects or on some offsets from the
UN’s Joint Implementation program.  “While the CDM carries great promise in delivering cost-
effective greenhouse gas emission reductions in  developing
countries , it has also given rise to criticisms and concerns
about some project categories,”  Jos Delbeke , director general
for climate action at the European Commission, said Dec. 16 in a
 note on the EU’s website .  Further improvements to the CDM are necessary, he said. The
research published by the four research companies can help guide
future rules governing the CDM, which has instigated a review of
itself, he said.  ‘Further Action’  “Depending on the outcome of this policy dialogue, we may
consider further action in  Europe  to potentially restrict the
use of certain project categories, like we did earlier this year
for industrial-gas credits,” Delbeke said.  UN CER credits for December next year rebounded 5.8 percent
today and were at 4.36 euros as of 5:19 p.m. in  London  on the
ICE Futures Europe exchange. They’ve dropped 61 percent in the
year to date.  The probability that EU regulators may ban CDM emission
credits from large hydropower projects has increased after the
publication on Dec. 16 of consulting reports singling out those
plants as contentious,  Trevor Sikorski , an analyst at  Barclays
Capital  in London, said today in an e-mailed research note.  Regulators of the Joint Implementation are already
proposing changes that may help improve the strength of that
program, said Lennard de Klerk, chairman of the JI Action Group,
which represents project developers.  ‘Don’t See Need’  Ukrainian and Russian projects are already using registered
verification and certification firms, de Klerk, who is based in
Utrecht, the Netherlands, said today by phone. The projects are
generally monitoring and measuring reductions and not relying on
estimates, he said. “So we don’t see a need for banning any JI
credits before the JI reform is completed.”  Assuming  Russia  does not change its mind and declines to
take part in a second Kyoto compliance period, it may have to
stop supplying ERUs after 2012, de Klerk said. “I would expect
Russia may not be able to issue ERUs,” he said.  “I think it’s a misrepresentation that Russia will issue
ERUs out of nothing next year. It takes 2 to 3 years” to
implement a project and start getting credits, de Klerk said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  