-- Euro 8% Stronger Than Average as Losses Seen for 2012
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2011-12-19T18:44:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/euro-in-crisis-8-stronger-than-average-since-1999-as-losses-seen-for-2012.html
The euro, after falling to its
weakest level against the dollar since January, is poised to
depreciate further as traders lose confidence in the ability of
European leaders to contain the region’s debt crisis.  Measures in the  derivatives market  ranging from future
volatility implied by option prices to the cost of insuring
against a drop in the euro to the record number of bearish bets
by hedge funds and other speculators, show traders expect the
blueprint unveiled by European leaders this month for a closer
fiscal accord will fail to stem the declines.  While the euro at $1.3010 remains about 8 percent above
the average since it began trading in 1999, bears say that
provides more scope for depreciation as bond yields in Italy and
Spain approach levels that prompted bailouts of  Greece , Ireland
and  Portugal . Companies from Spain’s Grupo Gowex to  Germany ’s
GEA Group AG are preparing for some countries to leave the euro
and bank failures.  “The euro trading where it is now reflects a global lack
of confidence in those dealing with the sovereign debt crisis,”
 Neil Jones , head of European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. in  London , said in a telephone interview on
Dec. 14. “It is also a signal of more bad news to come in the
euro zone. I am not certain what future euro negatives lie
ahead, but I am certain there will be more.”  Ratings Peril  Stress in  Europe ’s financial system, coupled with slower
growth, prompted  Standard & Poor’s  on Dec. 5 to say Germany and
 France  may be stripped of their AAA credit ratings as it put 15
euro nations on review for possible downgrade.  Fitch Ratings 
lowered its outlook on France to “negative” on Dec. 16 and put
 Spain  and Italy on review for a downgrade, citing Europe’s
failure to find a “comprehensive solution” to the debt crisis.  “Things are far from complete,” said London-based Fredrik Nerbrand, global head of  asset allocation  at HSBC Holdings Plc,
Europe’s biggest bank by market value, in a telephone interview
on Dec. 13.  “Most of policy makers’ recent debate was with regard to
fiscal positions as opposed to the underlying problem, which is
a lack of growth,” he said. “It’s kind of like a doctor trying
to treat the symptoms rather than the cause.” Nerbrand said he
currently has no euro-denominated debt.  The euro depreciated 2.54 percent last week, after trading
below $1.30 for the first time since January. It declined to a
10-week low against  Japan ’s currency, finishing at 101.47 yen,
down 2.33 percent from Dec. 9.  Merkel’s Confidence  Even with the losses, the euro is only down 1.27 percent
the past 12-months against the dollar. Its average since 1999 is
about $1.2049, and has ranged from 82.3 U.S. cents in October
2000 to a high of $1.6038 in July 2008.  The results of the Dec. 9 summit, at which 26 of the 27
European Union members agreed to sign up to or consider tighter
deficit limits and sanctions against offenders, would have been
“unthinkable” a few months ago and “can’t be overstated,”
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said in a Dec. 14 speech in
Berlin.  Economists at Barclays Plc say a European recession has
already begun. The euro area’s gross domestic product will
contract 1.4 percent this quarter, 0.6 percent in the first
three months of 2012 and stagnate in the second quarter before
resuming growing in the third, Barclays said in a Dec. 8 report.  Rising Yields  The debt of  Italy  was among the worst performing last week
of higher-yielding European  government securities  last week.
Italy’s 10-year bond yield climbed 23 basis points to finish the
week at 6.59 percent, down from a surge to over 6.75 percent
during the week. Italy’s yields rose last month above the 7
percent threshold that led Greece, Ireland and Portugal to seek
bailouts. The 10-year yield climbed to 6.84 percent at 1:42 p.m.
 New York  time.  “With the contagion of the crisis having spread to Italy,
the risk of a euro breakup is now viewed as no longer non-
trivial,” David Woo, the global head of rates and currencies in
New York at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said in a Dec. 13
interview. The bank sees the euro falling to $1.25 by April.  Most measures of the future for the euro has deteriorated
this quarter. The six-month euro-dollar option butterfly, which
measures the gap in implied volatility of out-of-the money, or
virtually worthless, options and those that would likely produce
a profit, was 0.55 percentage point today.  Risk Reversal Rates  That compares with the 0.76 percentage point reached on
Sept. 26, the highest since April 2009, and is up from 0.36 in
March, when EU leaders agreed on a retooled bailout plan for the
region’s most indebted nations. A higher number signals traders
expect large moves in the currency and are buying insurance to
hedge that risk.  The so-called 25-delta risk reversal rate had a 3.64
percentage point premium for euro puts over calls during the
first three trading days of last week, before retreating to end
the week at 3.12 percent points and to trade today at 2.99
percentage points. A 4.39 percentage-points premium reached Nov.
17 was the biggest since at least 2005, when Bloomberg began to
track the data. Puts grant the right to sell the euro, while
calls allow for purchases. An increase in the put premium
signals investors are wagering the common currency will slide
further.  Implied volatility on three-month options for the euro-
dollar pair ended last week at 14.3 percent, about four
percentage points above its low this year. The gap, which
narrowed by the end of the week to 1.2 percentage points, is
viewed by traders as an indicator of how expensive or cheap
options are.  ‘Hedging Downside’  The increase in volatility and the price of the option
butterfly since September is a result of demand from longer-term
investors, such as corporations, for contracts to provide
insurance against further depreciation of the euro, said Bank of
America’s Woo.  Grupo Gowex (GOW) , a Spanish provider of Wi-Fi wireless services,
said it is moving funds to Germany because it expects Spain to
exit the euro, according to Jenaro Garcia, founder and chief
executive officer of Madrid-based Grupo Gowex. Juerg Oleas, CEO
of  GEA Group , a machinery maker based in Dusseldorf, said it is
limiting amounts held at any one bank.  Three-month implied volatility on euro-dollar options
reached 2.6 percentage points above the level of historic
volatility, which measures the pace of actual price swings in
the underlying currency. The gap, which narrowed by the end of
the week to 1.2 percentage points, is viewed by traders as a
sign that option prices being expensive amid heightened demand.  Option Hedges  “The high price of option hedges against a slide in the
euro shows a quiet resignation to the situation rather than out-
and-out panic,”  Simon Smollett , a senior options strategist at
Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London, said in a
telephone interview on Dec. 12. “The work the ECB and European
politicians are going to do is going to take time; there is no
instant solution.”  That’s little comfort for European banks which saw their
cost to borrow in dollars in the currency swaps market surge
last week. The three-month cross-currency basis swap, the rate
banks pay to convert euro-based payments into dollars, fell to
147 basis points below the euro interbank offered rate,
signaling an increased price for dollar funding, before easing
by the end of the week to 122 basis points below Euribor, and
moving to 112 basis points below today.  On Dec. 8, banks received only 109 basis points less than
Euribor when using the swaps market.  ‘Range of Outcomes’  Hedge funds  and other large speculators held a record net
116,457  contracts  at the CME Group as of Dec. 13 that the 17-
nation currency will fall versus the dollar in the, according to
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data. The so-called net-
shorts exceeded the previous all-time high of 113,890 in May
2010, when Greece accepted a 110 billion-euro ($145 billion) aid
package.  “The possible range of outcomes for Europe is quite
binary,” Jose Wynne, the head of North America foreign-exchange
research at the investment banking unit of Barclays, said during
a briefing at the firm’s New York office Dec. 8. “Either you
fix it or trouble comes. If more trouble comes then all of the
banking sector in Europe will be feeling the stress.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz McCormick in New York at   emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  