-- Euro Gains Versus Dollar on Spain’s Bill Sale, Less Debt Concern
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2011-12-20T22:11:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/euro-trades-near-11-month-low-before-spanish-debt-sale-german-confidence.html
The euro rallied to a one-week high
against the dollar after borrowing costs fell at a Spanish bill
sale and German business confidence unexpectedly increased,
easing concern the region’s debt crisis is worsening.  The  European Central Bank  offered unlimited three-year
loans to the region’s banks, boosting demand for higher-yielding
assets. The U.S. currency fell against all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts on reduced demand for a refuge as builders broke
ground in November on the most houses in more than a year,
adding to evidence of economic recovery. Sweden’s krona and the
Australian dollar rallied after central banks signaled they may
hold off on cuts in  interest rates  at the start of 2012.  “The refi operation is working and that’s relieving
pressure on a lot of the markets with a risk-on profile,” said
Yra Harris, chief trader and analyst at Praxis Trading in
 Chicago , said in a telephone interview. “This funding operation
from the ECB is effectual.”  The 17-nation euro appreciated 0.7 percent to $1.3082 at
5:02 p.m. New York time, after touching the strongest level
since Dec. 13.  Europe ’s shared currency strengthened 0.4 percent
to 101.89 yen. The dollar fell 0.2 percent to 77.89 yen.  The euro has depreciated 1.1 percent this year against nine
developed-nation counterparts, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The yen has advanced 3.9
percent and the dollar has gained 1 percent.  2011 Winners, Losers  South Africa ’s rand has declined 19 percent against the
dollar in 2011, the most of the U.S. currency’s most-traded
peers, followed by  Mexico ’s peso with a 10.5 percent loss. The
yen has advanced 4.1 percent for the largest gain against the
greenback, while the Swiss franc is up 0.4 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 3 percent today.
Treasury 10-year notes fell, pushing the yield 11 basis points,
or 0.11 percentage point, higher to 1.92 percent.  The Canadian dollar increased the most in December against
its U.S. counterpart as a rally in crude oil and stocks eased
 risk aversion . The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, rose
0.9 percent to C$1.0298 per greenback.  Australia ’s dollar rose 1.9 percent to $1.0080 after
minutes of the last central bank meeting showed policy makers
saw a continued expansion in the domestic economy even as
Europe’s debt crisis weighed on the global economy. “Solid
growth” among trading partners has tempered the need for lower
rates, the minutes said.  Krona Rises  The krona rallied 0.9 percent to 6.8652 per  U.S. dollar  as
the Riksbank said it may hold borrowing costs steady next year
after lowering the seven-day repo rate by a quarter-percentage
point to 1.75 percent.  South Africa’s currency strengthened as much as 2.6 percent
against the dollar, a fourth day of gains.  Moody’s Investors Service said the U.K.’s top credit rating
depends on the government’s sticking to its fiscal plan and that
the economy is not immune to the turmoil in the euro area. The
pound added 1 percent to $1.5659.  U.S. housing starts increased 9.3 percent to a 685,000
annual rate in November, exceeding the highest estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and the highest level
since April 2010, Commerce Department figures showed today in
 Washington . Building permits, a proxy for future construction,
also climbed to a more than one-year high.  Economic Data  Consumer spending  rose 0.3 percent in November, a survey of
economists showed before a government report due to be released
Dec. 23.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s  Dollar Index (DXY) , a gauge of
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, decreased 0.6 percent to 79.847.  The euro strengthened after the Ifo institute’s business
climate  index  for  Germany , based on a survey of 7,000
executives, rose to 107.2 this month from 106.6 in November,
boosting optimism that Europe’s largest economy will avoid a
recession next year. Economists expected a drop to 106, the
median of 36 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  “The European data was more important and more relevant to
the euro’s performance and to the general risk appetite today
than the U.S. data,” said Thomas Molloy, chief dealer in Saddle
River,  New Jersey , at FX Solutions, a currency brokerage. “The
German Ifo number this morning was better than anticipated. That
helped. Even more so was the Spanish T-bill auction.”  Spain ’s Debt  Europe’s currency was supported after Spain sold 5.64
billion euros of three-month and six-month bills, exceeding a
maximum target of 4.5 billion euros. The average yield on the
three-month debt dropped to 1.735 percent, compared with 5.110
percent when the securities were last issued on Nov. 22.  “Expectations and hopes are building that the ECB may be
successful in its backdoor quantitative easing to slow the pace
of bank deleveraging and stem the illiquidity plaguing European
sovereign-debt markets,” said Andrew Cox, a currency strategist
at Citigroup Inc. in  New York , referring to central bank
purchases of  government bonds . “The focus of the market’s
attention this morning was clearly the strong Spanish auction
results.”  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said he believed
the government was close to an agreement with creditors on a
voluntary debt swap.  “We are close to an agreement on PSI,” Venizelos said in
a speech in  Athens  today. “I believe this. And it is feasible
if our partners respect the accord of Oct. 26 and Oct. 27.”  The yen weakened against most its major peers as government
documents showed the  Finance Ministry  plans to raise the
issuance limit for bills to fund currency intervention to 195
trillion yen ($2.5 trillion), the first increase since Sept. 30.
The currency increased to a post-World War II record of 75.35
yen per dollar on Oct. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  