-- Europe Channels $195 Billion to IMF
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2011-12-19T20:46:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/europe-channels-195-billion-to-imf.html
Europe bolstered its anti-crisis
arsenal, channeling 150 billion euros ($195 billion) to the
 International Monetary Fund  as the  European Central Bank  widened
its support for sagging bond markets.  Four countries not using the single currency also pledged
to add to the IMF war chest while Britain refused to commit, in
a sign of the difficulty of attracting outside cash to ease the
euro area’s home-grown debt burdens. The U.K. will “define its
contribution” in early 2012, euro finance ministers said in a
Brussels  statement  after a conference call.  The IMF track is “obviously a small-scale solution,”
former UBS AG Chairman Peter Kurer told Maryam Nemazee on
Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” program. “What really
would be needed in the ideal world would be euro bonds or a
substitute which can bring large-scale liquidity and confidence
into the markets.”  Germany  continued to oppose an early decision to raise the
limit of 500 billion euros on overall emergency aid. European
leaders plan to tackle that question by March. Still, the IMF
infusion and jump in ECB  bond purchases  indicated that Europe is
wielding more money instead of relying on budget cuts alone to
persuade investors to return to markets scarred by two years of
burgeoning debt and threatened defaults.  Bundesbank’s Demand  Contributions to the Washington-based IMF were
controversial inside and outside the 17-nation euro region. The
most potent central bank among the euro users, Germany’s
Bundesbank, coupled its 41.5 billion-euro input to a promise
that the aid not be earmarked for  Europe .  Such recycling would violate euro rules, inspired by the
Bundesbank, that bar central banks from financing government
deficits. As a result, the euro area will lend to the IMF’s
general resources, not to a special euro crisis fund.  France , the second-largest European Union state using the
euro, will supply 31.4 billion euros, the statement said. Italy
will deliver 23.5 billion euros and  Spain  14.9 billion euros.  The three countries drawing on emergency loans to escape
default -- Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  -- weren’t asked to
contribute, the Greek Finance Ministry said. Amounts pledged by
four EU countries outside the euro -- the  Czech Republic ,
 Denmark , Poland and  Sweden  -- weren’t immediately disclosed.  Ten days after U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  battled
euro leaders over crisis management at a Brussels summit,
Britain’s wariness of the IMF program sabotaged the euro
region’s goal of drumming up 50 billion euros from the rest of
the EU.  U.K. Deferral  “The U.K. has always been willing to consider further
resources for the IMF, but for its global role and as part of a
global agreement,” the Treasury said in an e-mailed statement.  The success of the IMF strategy hinges on how other major
powers react. While talks are under way with  China , there is
“no chance” that Congress will approve more U.S. money, German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said on Deutschlandradio.  “The EU would welcome G-20 members and other financially
strong IMF members to support the efforts to safeguard global
financial stability by contributing to the increase in IMF
resources so as to fill global financing gaps,” Luxembourg
Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker, who chaired the conference
call, said in the statement.  Europe is piecing together a strategy for containing the
crisis, which started with the Greek government uncovering an
unexpected  budget hole  in October 2009 and led to 256 billion
euros in bailouts for  Greece , Ireland and Portugal.  December Summit  After “comprehensive” fixes hammered out in July and
October quickly fizzled, European leaders were careful not to
oversell the latest strategy, unveiled at sunrise Dec. 9 after
an all-night wrangle.  The keystone, demanded by German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ,
is a new treaty cementing balanced-budget rules and making it
harder for violators to wriggle free from penalties.
Negotiations begin tomorrow on the text, with the goal of
signing the treaty in March.  While no government has been punished for a deficit above
the limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product in the euro’s
13-year history, the renewed vow of fiscal probity was designed
to encourage action by the independent central bank.  The pledge marked a “breakthrough,” the ECB’s president,
 Mario Draghi , told a  European Parliament  committee in Brussels
today. “The new fiscal compact is an essential signal, showing
a clear trajectory for the future evolution of the euro area.”  ECB Purchases  The ECB said it settled 3.36 billion euros of bond
purchases in the week ending Dec. 16, up from 635 million euros
the week before. The Frankfurt-based ECB’s next crisis-fighting
act comes tomorrow, when it is expected to flood the banking
system with three-year loans.  “I cannot put a figure to it, but I would think that it
would be significant,” ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  told
Bloomberg Television in  Frankfurt . “It’s an important
instrument for banks.”  Bonds of  Italy  and Spain rallied on expectations that the
ECB’s unprecedented long-term loans will lead banks to buy more
government debt. Two-year yields fell 14 basis points to 5.15
percent in Italy and 11 basis points to 3.35 percent in Spain.  At the same time, Draghi said the central bank’s bond-
buying operations won’t go on forever, indicating that countries
such as his native Italy can’t count on massive ECB
interventions to reduce their borrowing costs.  The ECB will start in January to act as a market agent for
the  European Financial Stability Facility , the 440 billion-euro
government-backed rescue fund set up in May 2010 and due to be
replaced by a permanent fund next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  