-- MF Global Judge Considering Nine Investor Suits Against Ex-Chief Corzine
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2011-12-19T19:04:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/mf-global-judge-considering-nine-investor-suits-against-ex-chief-corzine.html
Jon Corzine ,  MF Global Holdings
Ltd .’s former chief executive officer, is the defendant in nine
lawsuits before a federal judge in  Manhattan  that are seeking
compensation for losses from the company’s collapse.  The plaintiffs, including an electricians’ union, allege
that Corzine and other company officials made misleading
statements about MF Global’s financial condition before its Oct.
31 collapse. U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero  has been
combining the cases into one, saying they make similar claims
about similar facts and events, and he now has consolidated nine
of them, according to a court filing today.  Andrew Levander, a lawyer for Corzine, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the suits, which are
seeking class-action, or group, status.  Corzine, the former governor of  New Jersey , and senior MF
Global officers touted the company’s internal financial controls
and liquidity levels in statements that were “materially
misleading or untrue,” according to a Nov. 3 complaint filed in
Manhattan federal court by Joseph DeAngelis on behalf of himself
and other MF Global shareholders.  DeAngelis also named Henri Steenkamp, the New York-based
company’s chief financial officer, and  Bradley Abelow , its
president.  ‘Power and Influence’  “Defendants had the power and influence -- and exercised
such power and influence -- as to cause MF Global to engage in
the unlawful conduct and practices,” DeAngelis alleged. “Each
of the defendants is liable as a participant in a fraudulent
scheme and course of business that operated as a fraud or deceit
on purchasers of MF Global common stock.”  MF Global filed for bankruptcy listing $41 billion in
assets after making bets on European sovereign debt and getting
margin calls. The holding company is the parent of a futures
brokerage that is being liquidated in a separate court
proceeding.  An Oct. 25 release on second-quarter results “falsely
stated” that MF Global had strengthened its capital and
liquidity, according to the suit.  Corzine said in the release he was confident the company
had “the resources and expertise to continue to successfully
manage these exposures,” according to the suit.  Corzine and MF Global also have been sued by former
employees and commodity customers. A trustee liquidating the MF
Global Inc. brokerage is looking for $1.2 billion or more in
money missing from commodity customers’ accounts. Corzine has
said he doesn’t know where the missing money is.  The main case is DeAngelis v. Corzine, 11-cv-7866, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  