-- Facebook Lawsuit Against Ads ‘Liked’ by Friends Can Proceed, Judge Rules
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2011-12-19T16:18:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/facebook-lawsuit-against-ads-liked-by-friends-can-proceed-judge-rules.html
Facebook  Inc., the world’s most used
social-networking service, can be sued by people who claim
showing advertisements that their friends “like” violates a
California law regarding commercial endorsements.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in  San Jose  rejected
Facebook’s bid to dismiss the lawsuit on Dec. 16, ruling the
plaintiffs may pursue claims that the company’s sponsored ads
violate state law and are fraudulent. Koh granted Facebook’s
request to dismiss a claim that it unjustly enriched itself with
the sponsored ads.  Facebook earns revenue primarily through the sale of
targeted advertising that appears on members’ pages, including
so-called  sponsored stories , which the  Palo Alto , California-
based company started Jan. 25. A sponsored story is a paid ad
consisting of another friend’s name and profile picture and
claiming the person likes the advertiser. The plaintiffs claim
it’s an unauthorized use of their names and likenesses and that
they deserve compensation.  The “plaintiffs have articulated a coherent theory of how
they were economically injured by the misappropriation of their
names, photographs and likeness,” Koh wrote.  ‘Without Merit’  “We are reviewing the decision and continue to believe that
the case is without merit,” Andrew Noyes, a Facebook spokesman,
said in an e-mailed statement.  Facebook’s revenue will climb to as much as $6.9 billion in
2012 from $4.27 billion this year, according to estimates by
EMarketer Inc., a New York-based research company. Almost
90 percent of 2011 sales will come from advertising revenue,
EMarketer estimates.  California’s Right of Publicity Statute prohibits the non-
consensual use of another person’s name, voice, signature,
photograph or likeness for advertising.  Facebook claimed it was immune under the law’s
“newsworthiness” exemption, which doesn’t require consent. The
plaintiffs are public figures to their friends and expressions
of consumer opinion are generally newsworthy, Facebook said.  The plaintiffs, in their statement of claim, cited Facebook
Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  saying that “nothing
influences people more than a recommendation of a friend” and a
“trusted referral is the Holy Grail of advertising.”  On average, each member of Facebook has 130 friends, and
Facebook Chief Operating Officer  Sheryl Sandberg  said “making
your customers your marketers” is the “goal we’ve been
searching for,” according to the statement of claim.  The case is Fraley v. Facebook Inc., 11-cv-01726, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Jose)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net  