-- Failure to Extend Tax Cut Would Hurt U.S. Growth, McCarthy Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2011-12-19T16:36:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/failure-to-extend-tax-cut-would-hurt-u-s-growth-mccarthy-says-tom-keene.html
Failure to extend a payroll  tax cut 
and long-term benefits for unemployed Americans into 2012 may
reduce economic growth next year by as much as 1 percentage
point, economist  Ward McCarthy  said today.  The House of Representatives returns to Washington today to
either change a Senate bill extending the tax cut through
February or seek a House-Senate meeting to resolve differences.
The showdown is the latest in a series of standoffs, including a
debt-ceiling debate that led to a credit-rating downgrade in
August and caused consumer and business confidence to sink.  “If congress fails us again, then we could suffer similar
consequences,” McCarthy, chief financial economist at Jefferies
& Co., said on Bloomberg Radio’s “Under Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “Part of that are the direct effects but part of that
also are the psychological effects.”  Following  Standard & Poor’s  downgrade of the U.S. in early
August, sentiment plummeted and economic data, including
payrolls and manufacturing, pointed to an economy on the verge
of another recession. The recovery regained momentum in ensuing
months, helping gross domestic product expand at a 2 percent
annual rate in the third quarter, up from 1.3 percent in the
previous three months.  “On both the monetary- and the fiscal-policy side we
should continue to try to provide stimulus to the economy, so we
can get the  unemployment rate  down and get people back to
work,” said McCarthy. “I do think the Fed will continue to be
aggressive.”  House Bill  The latest version of the bill passed by the Republican-
controlled House would cut the maximum length of  unemployment
benefits  to 79 weeks from 99 weeks and impose a gradual
reduction to 59 weeks.  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News in early December
forecast the world’s largest economy will grow 2.1 percent in
2012 after expanding 1.8 percent this year.  “Typically the economy grows as fast as consumers are
willing to spend, and consumers are strapped right now,” said
McCarthy.  “It’s going to take some more time, probably a
three-year time horizon” before the economy fully recovers, he
said,  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net 
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in  Washington  at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  