-- Fed’s Lacker Sees Moderate Growth
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2011-12-19T20:48:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/fed-s-lacker-predicts-u-s-growth-of-up-to-2-5-in-12-amid-inflation-risk.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  predicted the  U.S. economy  will grow 2
percent to 2.5 percent next year, with inflation likely to meet
central bank goals, and urged no additional stimulus.  “I am hard-pressed to see the rationale for any further
monetary stimulus” with growth at 2 percent or higher and
inflation around 2 percent, Lacker told reporters after a speech
today in Charlotte,  North Carolina . “Recent economic news in
the U.S. has been positive for a couple months now” while
prospects in Europe have been “deteriorating,” he said.  Lacker said he was “very comfortable” with the tone of
last week’s Federal Open Market Committee statement, which said
the economy was expanding moderately despite “apparent slowing
in global growth,” while adding that market strains pose
“significant downside risks.” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said Nov. 2 that additional stimulus “remains on the table,”
such as buying mortgage bonds or changing the way the Fed
communicates its policy goals to the public.  Recent data, including a drop in initial jobless claims to
the lowest in three years, have prompted economists to raise
their forecasts for the fourth-quarter growth rate. For example,
 Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
 New York , on Dec. 16 raised his forecast to 3.5 percent from 3
percent.  Communications Discussion  Asked about communications discussions of the policy
committee, Lacker today reiterated his call for an official
inflation target.  “Inflation is terribly important as a central bank goal
and I think we owe the public a commitment to an announced
objective for inflation,” he told reporters. “We have been
having a lot of conversations. I can’t speak for the
committee.”  A recent cooling in prices “is likely to prove as
transitory as did the acceleration we saw earlier in the year,”
Lacker said in his speech to the  Charlotte  Chamber of Commerce
economic-outlook conference. “Despite this year’s run-up, I
believe the inflation outlook is reasonably good” though “I
still view the risks to inflation as tilted to the upside.”  In response to audience questions, Lacker said yields on
U.S. Treasury securities have fallen because of a “flight to
quality” with greater concerns internationally.  Growth Projection  Lacker said he based his projections for growth on
continued gains in jobs, which will aid  consumer confidence , and
growth at a “less torrid pace” for business investment.
Housing will probably remain “relatively dormant” and
 government spending  won’t aid the economy, while export demand
is likely to slow because of the slowdown in Europe, he said.  The Richmond Fed president said he overestimated growth
this year, which will turn out to be 1.75 percent with about 2.5
percent in the second half, rather than the above 3 percent
average for the year he had forecast. He said  monetary policy ’s
ability to raise growth was limited.  “Monetary policy is often credited with entirely too much
influence on real growth,” he said. “Monetary policy is about
inflation -- that is, the value of money.”  Lacker, 56, votes on monetary policy in 2012 as part of the
rotation among Fed bank presidents. He is a former head of
research at the Richmond Fed and became president of the bank in
August 2004.  Officials Divided  Fed officials have been divided over whether the central
bank should wait to see if the economy deteriorates before
taking additional steps to try to lower borrowing costs and
boost job creation.  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans , who voted against the
 Federal Open Market Committee ’s decision to refrain from further
easing, has urged “increasing amounts of policy
accommodation.” Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher , who
opposed stimulus measures in August and September, said on Dec.
16 the U.S. economy “has slowly begun to strengthen” and said
he would opposed additional asset purchases.  The FOMC pledged in August to keep its target interest rate
near zero at least until mid-2013, and policy makers agreed on a
plan in September to cut borrowing costs by lengthening the
maturity of the Fed’s bond portfolio in a program known as
Operation Twist. The stimulus measures are aimed at trying to
bring down an  unemployment rate  that’s been stuck above 8
percent for almost three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  