-- Feuding NRC Faces Decisions on New Southern Co., Scana Reactors
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2011-12-19T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/feuding-nrc-faces-decisions-on-new-southern-co-scana-reactors.html
Members of the U.S. Nuclear
Regulatory Commission have said they’re willing to work together
after four of them accused Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  of bullying
employees and creating a toxic work environment.  That’s about to be tested. Jaczko, 41, remains in place
after two congressional hearings last week that aired the feud
between him and all of his commission colleagues, and now the
panel is poised to decide on the nation’s first permits to build
new reactors in more than 30 years.  “The distance among them does not appear to be a show-
stopper,” Phil Sharp, a former Democratic House member from
 Indiana  who serves on a commission to study nuclear-waste
storage options, said in an interview.  In addition to the permits being sought by  Southern Co. (SO)  and
 Scana Corp. (SCG) , the commission is weighing rules to improve plant
safety after the meltdowns at  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
facility in March and reviewing seismic risks following the
earthquake that temporarily shut down reactors at  Dominion
Resources Inc. ’s North Anna plant in  Virginia .  Jaczko, who was elevated to the commission’s chairmanship
by President  Barack Obama  in 2009, joined in a majority this
month backing certification of the AP1000 reactor design from
 Toshiba Corp. (6502) ’s Westinghouse Electric that Atlanta-based
Southern and Scana of Cayce,  South Carolina , plan to use.  The commission tentatively scheduled a Dec. 22 meeting to
make final their approval of the reactor design. At the meeting,
the members may signal whether the commission will overrule
Jaczko on how quickly to act on permits to build the Southern
and Scana reactors.  Expedited Permits  The companies are seeking expedited approval within days
after this week’s meeting, and a majority may grant it.
Commissioner George Apostolakis has said he backs moving
quickly, while Jaczko said he wants a 30-day review first.  The NRC is returning to its regulatory duties after two
days of congressional hearings last week where Jaczko’s
colleagues, backed by Republican lawmakers, said he refused to
share information with them and berated employees. His explosive
temper was causing “serious damage” to the agency, the other
four members wrote in an Oct. 13 letter to White House Chief of
Staff  William Daley .  Jaczko, backed by Democrats, denied the accusations and
said in a Dec. 7 letter to Daley that a commission majority has
“loosened the agency’s safety standards.”  ‘I Will Listen’  Jaczko said he had “no intention” of stepping down. His
colleagues said they were both willing to work with the chairman
and skeptical that he would take a new approach.  “If he is committed to changing his way of doing business
and behavior, then I will listen,” Commissioner William Ostendorff told the Senate Environment and Public Works
committee during a Dec. 15 hearing. “If we had great confidence
that things were going to change, we would not have sent the
letter to the White House.”  Nuclear-plant owners are most concerned about what Jaczko’s
critics called a chilled work environment “at a time when the
senior management and staff are working on critical licensing
activities and post-Fukushima safety recommendations,” Marvin Fertel, president and chief executive officer of the  Nuclear
Energy Institute , a Washington-based industry group, said in a
Dec. 12 statement. “The NRC functions best when it has a full
complement of five capable commissioners.”  Didn’t Speak  Commissioner William Magwood, a fellow Democrat who accused
Jaczko of verbally abusing three female employees in separate
instances, said he and Jaczko didn’t speak between the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee’s hearing on Dec. 14
and the Senate panel’s session the next day. When the hearings
ended, Jaczko didn’t linger to speak with reporters or to his
colleagues.  “It’s not in my nature to completely give up on people,”
Commissioner Kristine Svinicki said of Jaczko at the Dec. 15
hearing.  The same day, the agency approved a list of actions to be
implemented “without unnecessary delay” as the NRC considers
post-Fukushima safety rules. They include requiring plant owners
to re-evaluate seismic and flooding risks and steps to handle a
loss of power.  Magwood told reporters after the Dec. 14 hearing that he
didn’t think the rift with Jaczko would affect licenses for new
reactors.  The agency’s consideration of license extensions for
operating plants may be slowed because the NRC is short on
resources, in part due to its activities related to the
Fukushima crisis, Jaczko said at the Dec. 15 hearing.  ‘Revenge for Yucca’  Criticism of Jaczko is “really revenge for Yucca
Mountain,” Arnie Gundersen, a nuclear-energy adviser at
Fairewinds Associates Inc., a Burlington, Vermont-based energy
research company, said in an interview. “The nuclear industry
and Congress have hated him” since Jaczko halted agency work on
a nuclear-waste dump planned for the  Nevada  mountain, according
to Gundersen.  Obama sought to kill the Yucca repository, and the NRC has
stopped work on its review of the project.  Jaczko “was not forthcoming” with other commissioners
about his intent to end its evaluation of the Yucca site,
according to a June 6 report from the NRC’s inspector general,
which also questioned his management style.  The controversy over the NRC’s review of the Yucca Mountain
license application “was behind us a long time ago,” Jaczko
said during a Dec. 6 meeting with reporters at the agency’s
Rockville, Maryland, headquarters.  Republicans have said Jaczko halted the NRC’s Yucca-related
work for political reasons, which he has denied. Jaczko is a
former science adviser to Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of
Nevada, a long-time opponent of the waste dump.  ‘Strong, Confident’  The disagreements over Jaczko’s personality and temperament
that were voiced last week were echoed in interviews with those
who have worked with him in the past.  Jaczko was a “strong, confident, soft-spoken leader” when
he worked for Reid, Susan McCue, a former chief of staff for the
senator, said in an interview. “He was a team player all
around,” she said.  Paul Dickman, who served as chief of staff for former NRC
Chairman  Dale Klein , said in an interview that Jaczko should
step down.  “Greg’s not a consensus-builder,” Dickman said.  The NRC chairman told senators at the hearing he will talk
to his colleagues and “do whatever’s appropriate to remedy the
situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  