-- First Uranium May Cut 1,850 Jobs as Gold Output Plan Fails
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2011-12-19T21:17:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/first-uranium-may-fire-1-850-workers-as-plan-to-increase-gold-output-fails.html
First Uranium Corp. (FIU) , part-owned by
 AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , may cut 1,850 jobs at the Ezulwini gold-
uranium mine in  South Africa  after plans to raise output failed.  The cuts, equivalent to about half the operation’s workers,
are needed to curb operating losses, First Uranium said today.  “The expected improvement in production has not been
forthcoming,” Toronto-based First Uranium said in a statement.
“While the company continues to believe in the inherent value
and potential of the Ezulwini mine, decisive action is
required.” The company will reduce costs by mining in the more
profitable sections of the site, it said.  First Uranium has been seeking to implement plans to become
a “significant low-cost producer,” expanding output as gold
prices head for their 11th straight annual gain. Any move to
lose staff at Ezulwini, 25 miles (40 kilometers) from
Johannesburg, would add to unemployment in a nation with a
jobless rate of 25 percent.  The mine has been subject to an “intensive turnaround
process” for nine months, the company said in the statement.
Fatal accidents in recent months have had a “significant impact
on employee morale and productivity.”  In October, First Uranium said Ezulwini would sell 70,000
ounces to 80,000 ounces of gold and 110,000 pounds to 130,000
pounds of uranium in the fiscal year ending March 31.  The company won’t be able to update its forecasts until
it’s completed the “restructured mine plan” as part of a
consultation process with unions on staffing, Deon van der Mescht, First Uranium’s president and chief executive officer,
said today in an e-mail.  The company, formed by  Simmer & Jack Mines Ltd. (SIM) , fell 8.1
percent to 17 Canadian cents at the close in Toronto, the
largest decline since Oct. 31. The stock has dropped 87 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  