-- Flaherty Says Canada Needs to Be ‘Realistic’ About Health-Care Transfers
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2011-12-19T17:22:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/flaherty-says-canada-needs-to-be-realistic-about-health-care-transfers.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim
Flaherty  said the nation’s provinces need to be “realistic”
about future payments they receive for programs such as health
care, as the federal government copes with slowing growth while
planning to balance its budget.  Flaherty said he will have a “serious discussion” with
his provincial counterparts at a two-day meeting in Victoria,
British Columbia about growth in  transfers , adding it makes
sense to consider pegging them to economic benchmarks such as
nominal gross domestic product, which he called the “best
predictor” of government revenues  “We have to be realistic,” Flaherty, 61, told reporters
yesterday ahead of the meeting. “You can’t have a fiscal plan
that takes us in the direction of, quite frankly, some of the
countries in southern  Europe  that have gotten into a lot of
trouble.”  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s Conservative government has
pledged to eliminate the federal deficit by the year starting
2015, in part by cutting annual operating expenses for the
federal government by at least C$4 billion ($3.8 billion), even
as an aging labor force and slow global recovery crimps the
country’s expansion.  The federal government  paid  C$37.2 billion in the year
ended March for health and social programs to provincial
governments as part of Canada’s federal transfer system.  Transfer Payments  Canada’s current transfer  agreements , which include
“equalization” payments designed to smooth economic
disparities among provinces, expire in the year ending March
2014. The Conservatives have said they will keep health
transfers growing at the existing annual rate of six percent for
two years after the current agreement on health expires.  Canadians “realize that there’s no free lunch,” Flaherty
said. “There will be nothing sudden or abrupt going forward,
but I’ll be able to talk to my colleagues about what we think
needs to done.”  Basing transfers on nominal economic growth would reduce
payments for health by C$26 billion, which would “damage health
care and make it more difficult to transform the system,”
Ontario finance minister Dwight Duncan wrote to Flaherty in a
letter sent before the meeting.  Duncan told reporters today he would like provincial
premiers to meet by the end of the year to discuss reaching a
new health agreement with the federal government in 2012.  Reduce Access, Service  “The federal government is clearly signaling it will not
support health care to the extent it has in the past,” he said,
adding that curbs on transfer growth would reduce public access
to the system and quality of service.  While the federal government needs to be a “full financial
partner” in funding health care, provinces must come up with
ways of reducing the costs of delivery, said B.C. Finance
Minister Kevin Falcon.  “We are fooling ourselves if we think the challenge of
health care is just about money,” he said. “It’s also how
we’re delivering the health care system and making sure we
dramatically try to innovate within the health care system to
control costs.”  Speaking before the meeting, Flaherty said he will
encourage finance ministers from the nation’s 13 provinces and
territories to be responsible with their own budgets.  “We all realize that public finances relate to revenues,”
Flaherty told reporters. “We can’t pretend that we can spend
money that we don’t have.”  Ontario Outlook Cut  The outlook on Ontario’s Aa1 rating was cut Dec. 15 to
negative from stable by Moody’s Investors Service on concern
that  Canada ’s most-populous province faces increased risks in
meeting fiscal targets amid a slowdown in economic growth.  The reduction wasn’t unexpected, Duncan said. “We’ve got a
real fiscal challenge that we have to meet.”  Flaherty also said yesterday he continues to monitor the
country’s housing market, after a report last week by  Statistics
Canada  that showed the ratio of  household debt  to income climbed
to a record. Asked if the government will take additional steps
to cool the market, Flaherty said: “we’ll see.”  On Europe, he said the  International Monetary Fund  should
be assigned the task of monitoring the debt situation in Europe,
which he said was “quite serious.”  Europe needs to take additional steps to resolve the
crisis, including measures to recapitalize the region’s banks
and build a “firewall” around troubled countries, Flaherty
said. The region’s debt should be “primarily” addressed with
European resources, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  