-- Flaherty Says Canada Will Slow Growth of Health Spending
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2011-12-19T22:31:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/flaherty-says-canada-will-slow-growth-of-health-spending-1-.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said the federal government plans to slow the growth
rate of transfer payments to the nation’s provinces for health
care, as it seeks to keep spending in check.  The federal government will increase health care transfers
to C$38 billion ($36.6 billion) in the year beginning April
2018, from C$30 billion in the 2013-14 fiscal year, the
Department of Finance said in  a statement . Spending will grow by
six percent through the fiscal year that begins April 2016, then
increase in line with growth in nominal gross domestic product
for the remainder of the agreement that expires in 2024.  “In  Canada , there are three levels of government but only
one level of taxpayer,” Flaherty said at the close of a two-day
meeting with his provincial counterparts in Victoria, British
Columbia. “We all have to work - at the federal, provincial and
territorial levels - to ensure sustainable government finances
so we can support and preserve our health-care system.”  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s Conservative government has
pledged to eliminate the federal deficit by the fiscal year
starting April 2015, in part by cutting annual operating
expenses for the federal government by at least C$4 billion,
even as an aging labor force and slow global recovery crimps the
country’s expansion.  Ontario Finance Minister Dwight Duncan said the reduction
in the pace of transfer growth will harm the province’s ability
to deliver health care.  ‘Lump of Coal’  “It’s no present at all,” Duncan told reporters after the
meeting. “It’s a lump of coal.”  The health transfer arrangement is one of three major
funding programs from the federal government to the provinces.  The government also said transfers for social programs such
as education will continue to increase at the current rate of
three percent in 2014-15 “and beyond.” So-called equalization
payments, which are designed to smooth economic disparities
among provinces, will continue to grow in line with nominal GDP,
according to the finance department.  Under the agreement announced today, health care transfers
will grow at the existing annual rate of six percent for three
years from the fiscal year that begins in April 2014. Starting
in 2017, health transfers will grow in line with a three-year
moving average for nominal GDP, which Flaherty said he expects
will be in the range of 4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  