-- Formosa Plastic Founder’s Son Wong Sues for $4 Billion for Father’s Estate
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o   a n d   Y u - h u a y   S u n
-- 2011-12-20T02:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/formosa-plastics-founder-s-son-sues-for-4-billion.html
Winston Wong, son of Formosa
Plastics Group’s late founder Wang Yung-ching, sued in  Hong Kong 
to recover more than $4 billion in assets for the estate of his
father, once Taiwan’s richest man.  Defendants named in the suit include three of Wang’s half-
sisters - Susan, Sandy and Diana Wang - as well as former
employees of Formosa Plastics - Hung Wen Hsiung and Jao Chien Fang, “who were entrusted to manage YC Wang’s personal
finances,” according to a statement issued by Wong yesterday.  The suit alleges that the defendants used a Hong Kong-
registered company called Hua Yang Investment (H.K.) Ltd. to
“wrongly siphon off” assets, including an interest in a coal
power plant and a hotel in mainland China, from Wang’s estate.
Wang’s  Taiwan  assets were valued at $1.7 billion, Wong said in
the statement.  An independent global investigation has identified total
assets worth nearly $18 billion, according to the complaint
filed yesterday in Hong Kong’s Court of First Instance.  A call to the office of Susan Wang, Formosa Plastics Group
executive board vice chairman, was directed to Hsueh Ching-hsien,
a company spokesman. Hsueh said the matter is “personal” in
nature and declined to comment. He didn’t have contact
information for Hung or Jao.  From Rice to Semiconductors  Wang died in the U.S. in 2008 at the age of 91. He started
selling rice in 1932 as his first business before founding
 Formosa Plastics Corp. (1301) , a maker of poly vinyl chloride or PVC,
in 1954. The company expanded into Formosa Plastics Group,
Taiwan’s biggest diversified industrial company.  With factories in  China ,  Indonesia , Taiwan, the U.S. and
 Vietnam , Formosa’s products range from semiconductors, textiles,
to detergents.  Wang, who also founded Taiwan’s Chang Gung Memorial
Hospital, naming it after his own father, married Wang Yueh-lan
in 1935. He had no children by his legal wife and nine children
by two other women, the late Yang Chiao Wang and Lee Pao Chu.
Winston Wong is Yang’s eldest son.  During his lifetime, Wang “maintained a veil of secrecy”
by holding assets via trusts or overseas entities run by
nominees such as Hung and Jao to conceal shareholdings in Taiwan,
mainland China and the U.S., according to the complaint.  Offshore Trusts  Since 2001, Hung had inappropriately set up offshore trust
entities under his control and the control of Susan and Sandy,
Wang’s daughters by Lee, Wong said in his filing.  Wong accuses Hung and Jao of breach of trust and fiduciary
duty in relation to the Hong Kong entities and his siblings of
acting dishonestly.  Calls to the office of Diana Wang weren’t answered. Sandy Wang didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment left
with her assistant.  Wong previously sued in  New Jersey  to be appointed as
administrator of the estate of his father, who died without a
will. His fortune has also been the subject of a lawsuit in
Taiwan.  The case is Dr. Wong, Wen-Young also known as Winston Wong
and Wang Ruey Hwa Susan and others, HCA2154/2011 in Hong Kong’s
Court of First Instance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net ;
Yu-Huay Sun in Taipei at 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  