-- Freaks, Poets Compete in Paris Shows of Arbus, Freund: Review
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2011-12-19T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/freaks-poets-compete-in-paris-exhibits-of-arbus-freund-jorg-von-uthmann.html
Nicole Kidman  played her as a
neurotic New York housewife in love with her hirsute neighbor, a
modern variation on “The Beauty and the Beast.”  The 2006 movie “Fur: An Imaginary Portrait of Diane Arbus” may not be a masterpiece. Yet the mere fact that a
biopic about a photographer, a generation after her suicide,
found a producer is remarkable.  In the U.S., Arbus (1923-71) is a star whose prints fetch
astronomical prices. In  France , she had been virtually ignored.
The retrospective at the  Jeu de Paume  is the first major
exhibition of her work in Paris.  Regrettably, the organizers follow neither a chronological
nor a thematic order. They present the 200 or so photographs in
a muddle, leaving it to the visitor to decipher the sense.  To justify their unhelpful attitude, they quote the artist:
“A photograph is a secret about a secret. The more it tells you
the less you know.”  It’s only in the last two rooms that you find biographical
and critical information about Arbus’s life and work.  Diane and her husband Allan started out as commercial
photographers for “Glamour,” “Vogue” and other fashion
magazines. Only after she had studied with Lisette Model at the
New York School for Social Research did she hit on the subject
of her life -- freaks.  Although she later regretted it, Arbus became famous for
her giants, dwarves, transvestites, retarded children in
Halloween costumes and other marginal figures.  Man in Curlers  The best known of her black-and-white, square images, shot
with a twin-lens Rolleiflex camera, are all here. including the
effeminate young man in curlers, the boy with toy hand grenades
in Central Park or the identical twins in identical dress who
reappeared as ghosts in Stanley Kubrick’s movie “The Shining.”  Not everybody appreciated Arbus’s taste for the bizarre.
Some accused her of voyeurism, others -- such as Susan Sontag in
her 1977 book “On Photography” -- found her pictures
repulsive. Norman Mailer quipped: “Giving a camera to Diane
Arbus is like putting a live grenade in the hands of a child.”  The exhibition, which is supported by Neuflize Vie and
Manufacture Jaeger-Le Coultre SA, runs through Feb. 5, 2012.
Information:  http://www.jeudepaume.org .  Freund’s Authors  Arbus is almost the exact opposite of another, no less
celebrated woman photographer whose work is on view in Paris.  Berlin-born Gisele Freund (1908-2000) fled  Germany  in 1933
for France and moved during the war to  South America , where she
worked for the photo agency  Magnum .  She was proud of her photojournalism and loved to tell the
story of her being thrown out of  Argentina  after the publication
of a photo series revealing Evita Peron’s appetite for jewels.  Freund is best known for her sensitive portraits of
writers. The  Foundation Pierre Berge-Yves Saint Laurent  has
selected prints (some in color), diaries and other documents
from her prewar years in the French capital.  The sitters include Andre Gide, Jean Cocteau, Colette,
Jean-Paul Sartre, Andre Malraux,  James Joyce  and Virginia Woolf.  To give you an idea of the literary world in the 1930s the
organizers have reproduced the facades of the bookshops where
Freund stalked her prey -- Adrienne Monnier’s “La Maison des
Amis des Livres” and Sylvia Beach’s “Shakespeare and
Company,” both on Rue de l’Odeon.  It’s a small yet exquisite show.  “Gisele Freund: L’Oeil Frontiere Paris 1933-1940” runs
through Jan. 29, 2012, at the Fondation Pierre Berge-Yves Saint
Laurent. Information:  http://www.fondation-pb-ysl.net .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 