-- Freddie Mac, Barclays, BP, Citigroup, UBS in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2011-12-19T11:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/freddie-mac-fannie-mae-barclays-bp-cdr-ubs-in-court-news.html
Daniel Mudd , the former chief
executive officer of Fannie Mae, and  Richard Syron , ex-CEO of
Freddie Mac, were sued by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission for understating by hundreds of billions of dollars
the subprime loans held by the firms.  The lawsuits filed Dec. 16 in Manhattan federal court were
followed by an SEC statement that it had entered into “non-
prosecution agreements” with each company. Fannie Mae, the
government-sponsored enterprise which issues almost half of all
mortgage-backed securities, and Freddie Mac, the McLean,
Virginia-based mortgage-finance company, had “agreed to accept
responsibility” for their conduct, the SEC said.  The agency said in the lawsuits that Syron, Mudd and other
executives understated exposure to subprime mortgage loans. From
2007 to 2008, Freddie Mac executives said the company’s exposure
was from $2 billion to $6 billion when it was actually as high
as $244 billion, according to one SEC complaint.  From 2006 to 2008, Washington-based Fannie Mae executives
said the firm’s exposure to subprime mortgage and reduced-
documentation loans was about $4.8 billion when it was almost 10
times greater, according to the regulator.  In the individual lawsuits, the SEC is seeking financial
penalties, disgorgement and bars on them serving as officers or
directors in other companies.  Also named as defendants are Patricia Cook, Freddie Mac’s
former executive vice president; Donald Bisenius, ex-senior vice
president at Freddie Mac; Enrico Dallavecchia, who was chief
risk officer for Fannie Mae; and Thomas Lund, Fannie’s Mae’s
former executive vice president.  Mudd, now CEO of  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) , was ousted
when Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were seized by regulators in
September 2008. In a statement, he said the federal government
and investors were aware of “every piece of material data about
loans held by Fannie Mae.”  “The government reviewed and approved the company’s
disclosures during my tenure, and through the present,” Mudd
said Dec. 16 in the statement. “Now it appears that the
government has negotiated a deal to hold the government, and
government-appointed executives who have signed the same
disclosures since my departure, blameless -- so that it can sue
individuals it fired years ago.”  Tom Green, Syron’s attorney at Sidley Austin LLP in
 Washington , said there was “no uniform definition” of
“subprime” in 2007 and that Freddie Mac included in its
disclosures tables detailing credit risks. “There was no
shortage of meaningful disclosures,” he said in a statement.  Michael Levy, Lund’s attorney at Bingham McCutchen LLP in
Washington, said his client “did not mislead anyone. During a
period of unprecedented disruption in the housing market, nobody
worked more diligently or honestly to serve the best interests
of both investors and homeowners.”  Dallavecchia is now chief risk officer at PNC Financial
Services Group. A phone call to Laurie Miller, his attorney at
Nixon Peabody LLP, wasn’t immediately returned.  The cases are SEC v. Syron, 11-cv-09201, and SEC v. Mudd,
11-cv-09202, U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
 New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Barclays, Bank of New York Sued by U.S. Bank Over Collateral  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  and  MBIA Inc. (MBI) 
were sued by U.S. Bank NA over control of $2.27 million in
escrowed collateral.  U.S. Bank, based in Cincinnati, wants a judge to order the
defendants to resolve their disputes over the money between
themselves and to prohibit them from suing U.S. Bank over it,
according to a complaint filed Dec. 15 in federal court in
Manhattan.  Unless the dispute is resolved, “U.S. Bank will have to
continue to hold the escrowed funds,” though it has “no
interest” in the money except for legal fees, the bank said in
the complaint.  Barclays, based in  London , and BNY Mellon are holders of
notes secured by collateral consisting of bundled commercial
mortgage loans and other assets, according to court papers.  Also named in the lawsuit is Angelo, Gordon & Co. of New
York, a collateral manager under a 2007 agreement, according to
court papers.  Brandon Ashcraft, a Barclays spokesman; Kevin Heine, a BNY
Mellon spokesman; and Kevin Brown, a spokesman for Armonk, New
York-based MBIA, declined to comment on the complaint.  The case is U.S. Bank v. Barclays, 11CV9199, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Nevada Sues Lender Processing Services Claiming Robo-Signing  Nevada Attorney General Catherine Cortez Masto sued Lender
Processing Services Inc., alleging the company falsified
foreclosure documents and demanded kickbacks for referrals.  The company, based in Jacksonville, Florida, engaged in the
practice known as robo-signing, requiring employees to execute
or notarize up to 4,000 foreclosure-related documents a day,
Masto said Dec. 16 in a statement. She sued Dec. 15 in state
court in  Las Vegas .  Lender Processing Services “engaged in a pattern and
practice of deceptive conduct that willfully misled consumers,
courts and the public, resulting in countless foreclosures that
were predicated upon false, deceptive and deficient documents
that LPS prepared and/or executed,” the attorney general said
in the complaint.  The company “strongly disputes the allegations,” Michelle
Kersch, a Lender Processing Services spokeswoman, said in an e-
mail. “LPS has cooperated with the attorney general’s office
for more than 14 months to resolve its inquiry in a manner which
would benefit the citizens of Nevada.”  The case is State of Nevada v. Lender Processing Services
Inc., A-11-653289-B, District Court, Clark County, Nevada (Las
Vegas).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Martin Marietta Says Proposed Vulcan Takeover Mischaracterized  Martin Marietta Materials Inc. (MLM)  said its position on a
potential takeover of  Vulcan Materials Co.  was “seriously”
mischaracterized in court papers filed by Vulcan.  In a letter to Vulcan’s board Dec. 17, Martin Marietta said
the proposed combination is a “compelling value-enhancing
opportunity.” It made the letter public in a statement sent
through Business Wire.  Martin Marietta announced a hostile takeover for Vulcan in
an all-stock transaction valued on Dec. 12 at about $4.7
billion. The offer is being made directly to investors after
Vulcan, the largest U.S. producer of crushed stone, broke off
talks on a combination, Martin Marietta has said.  “Statements in Vulcan’s  New Jersey  court papers that our
proposal is an attempt ‘to snatch Vulcan for the lowest possible
price,” are “simply inaccurate,” Martin Marietta Chief
Executive Officer Ward Nye wrote in the letter.  Vulcan  said in a court filing Dec. 17 in state court in New
Jersey that Martin Marietta’s lawsuit is “so palpably deficient
that the court should dismiss it.”  Martin Marietta is seeking a court order declaring that
only a simple majority vote is required to approve a merger,
according to Vulcan’s filing.  Douglas Eakeley, a lawyer for Vulcan, confirmed the filing
by the company. The filing couldn’t be independently confirmed
with the court.  Nye, in his letter, said he was concerned the papers imply
the transaction has been rejected, even though Vulcan’s board
hasn’t publicly stated its position on the proposal. Vulcan said
in a Dec. 12 statement that its board is reviewing the offer and
will make a recommendation to shareholders within 10 working
days.  Mark Semer , a spokesman for Martin Marietta at Kekst & Co.
in New York, didn’t return a voice-mail message seeking comment
on the filing and statement. Meghan Stafford, a spokeswoman for
Vulcan, declined to comment.  The case is Martin Marietta Materials Inc. v.  Vulcan
Materials Co. (VMC) , C-83-11, Superior Court of New Jersey,  Chancery
Division , Mercer County.  For more, click here.  Transocean Asks Judge to Force BP to Indemnify Spill Damages  Transocean Ltd.’s drilling contract with  BP Plc (BP/)  promised
indemnification for damages from oil spilled below the surface
of the Gulf of Mexico and should be enforced for claims over the
Deepwater Horizon accident, the rig owner told a judge.  Claiming the drilling contractor shares blame for the
disaster,  London-based BP  sued Transocean in April to recover
part of more than $40 billion in damages and costs from the 2010
spill. Transocean accused BP of breaching their contract by
failing to defend the rig owner and hold it harmless against
claims.  “What Transocean seeks is to hold BP to its promise,”
John M. Elsley, a lawyer for Transocean, told U.S. District
Judge  Carl Barbier  at a hearing in New Orleans federal court
Dec. 16. “BP does not want that to happen.”  BP has argued that Transocean’s conduct voided the
agreement. Transocean, based in Vernier, Switzerland, denies
willful misconduct and claims the indemnity provision requires
BP to pay virtually all damages and cleanup costs because it was
a subsurface spill.  “The court must rule Transocean cannot be indemnified if
there is gross negligence,” Andrew Langan, a lawyer for BP,
told the judge Dec. 16. “The drilling contract does not, cannot
provide for indemnification from damages,” Langan said. “We
think maritime law prohibits indemnification for gross
negligence, regardless.”  Barbier didn’t rule on the issue Dec. 16 and said he would
take it “under advisement.”  The April 2010 Macondo well blowout and the  explosion  that
followed killed 11 workers and set off the worst offshore oil
spill in U.S. history. The sinking of Transocean’s Deepwater
Horizon drilling rig and spill led to hundreds of lawsuits
against  BP  and its partners and contractors.  The case is In Re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  For more, click here.  Ex-Bank, Soccer Executive Fights ‘Political’ Warrant  Former  Bankas Snoras AB (SRS1L)  owners Vladimir Antonov and
Raimondas Baranauskas told a U.K. judge that Lithuania’s bid to
extradite them over claims of fraud and embezzlement is a
politically motivated campaign of revenge.  Allegations the men pushed the bank into insolvency are
reminiscent of tactics allegedly used by Russia’s leaders to
seize assets of political foes, Antonov’s lawyer, James Lewis,
said at the hearing Dec. 16. Lithuania seized the bank and
issued arrest warrants last month after Antonov’s media company
published articles critical of the government, Lewis said.  “The very same methods that were used in Russia were used
by this former Soviet satellite in the very same manner,” Lewis
said at the hearing. “Everything will be revealed.”  Antonov, 36, and Baranauskas, 53, were arrested on Nov. 24
in London after Lithuanian authorities issued European arrest
warrants. The men denied claims they stole about 879 million
litas ($331.8 million) by forging documents to show false
deposits in unspecified Swiss banks. Authorities are trying to
trace the whereabouts of more than $1.6 billion missing from
Antonov’s banks in Lithuania and Latvia.  Judge John Zani denied Dec. 16 the men’s requests to ease
their bail requirements. He scheduled a preliminary hearing on
the matter for Jan. 30 and a full claims hearing for May.  “This is a political case; we are going to prove it,”
Antonov said after the hearing.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials  Citigroup Suit Should Be Put on Hold During Appeal, SEC Says  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission asked to put on
hold its case against  Citigroup Inc. (C)  over mortgage-backed
securities while the agency appeals a federal judge’s rejection
of a $285 million settlement.  The appeal, filed in the U.S. Court of Appeals in New York,
challenged U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff’s refusal last month
to approve an accord resolving claims that Citigroup misled
investors in a $1 billion financial product linked to risky
mortgages.  Rakoff criticized the agency’s practice of settling without
requiring the subject of the allegations to admit wrongdoing.
The Manhattan judge said the Citigroup settlement didn’t provide
him with “any proven or admitted facts” to inform his
judgment. The SEC said it wanted to preserve agency resources by
putting the case on hold while the appeals court considers
Rakoff’s ruling.  “In addition, if this action is not stayed, the commission
may lose permanently the benefits of the proposed settlement and
be forced to incur the risks and costs of this litigation
avoided by the proposed consent judgment,” the SEC said in
court papers filed Dec. 16.  SEC Enforcement Director Robert Khuzami said in a Dec. 15
statement announcing the appeal that the judge’s decision “is
at odds with decades of court decisions that have upheld similar
settlements.”  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a Citigroup spokeswoman, said Dec.
16 in a statement that the New York-based bank disagrees with
the court’s rejection of the settlement. The agreement “fully
complies with long-established legal standards,” she said.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Citigroup Global Markets Inc., 11-cv-07387, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Penn State Officials to Face Perjury Trial in Sandusky Case  Pennsylvania State University’s athletic director and a
former school vice president must face trial on charges of lying
about their knowledge of a 2002 sex-abuse allegation against
former assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky, a judge ruled.  Magisterial District Judge William Wenner in Harrisburg,
Pennsylvania, ordered Dec. 16 Athletic Director Timothy Curley
and Gary Schultz, the former vice president, to go on trial for
perjury and failing to report that a member of the football
program told them he saw Sandusky sexually molesting a boy. Both
men, who deny wrongdoing, remain free on bail.  Wenner ruled after hearing testimony from Penn State
assistant football coach,  Mike McQueary , and from the former
head of the campus police and McQueary’s father.  McQueary testified that he told Curley and Schultz he had
seen Sandusky sexually molesting what appeared to be a 10-year-
old boy in a locker room shower on campus in March 2002.  “There is no question in my mind that I conveyed to them
that I saw Jerry with a boy in the showers and that it was
severe sexual acts going on and that it was wrong and over the
line,” McQueary, 37, told the court Dec. 16.  Neither Curley nor Schultz, who oversaw university police,
reported the incident to law enforcement or attempted to learn
the identity of the boy, identified in the grand jury report as
Victim 2.  Curley, 57, and Schultz, 62, denied that McQueary told them
about witnessing anal sex, according to the grand jury report.
Curley testified to the grand jury in January that McQueary told
him about conduct termed as “horsing around.”  Schultz testified that McQueary reported “disturbing” or
“inappropriate” conduct. Schultz was initially unsure about
what he remembered McQueary told him and later conceded the
report was of inappropriate sexual conduct, according to court
documents.  Sandusky, 67, has been charged with more than 40 counts
stemming from the alleged sexual abuse of 10 boys. He waived his
preliminary hearing this week and prosecutors said his case will
proceed to trial. Sandusky, under home confinement on $250,000
bail, denies the charges.  The cases are Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v. Curley,
MJ12303-cr-0000353-2011, and Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v.
Schultz, MJ12303-cr-0000354-2011, Magisterial District Judge 12-
3-03, Dauphin County (Harrisburg).  CDR Financial’s Rubin Asks Appeals Court for Delay of Trial  CDR Financial Products Inc.’s David Rubin asked an appeals
court to delay a trial scheduled for next month because of his
wife’s terminal illness, after a lower-court judge rejected the
request.  U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero  in New York last week
denied Rubin’s request for a postponement in the trial, which is
to take two months starting Jan. 9. Marrero also denied a
request that Rubin be tried separately from two codefendants.  Rubin, the founder of Beverly Hills, California-based CDR,
and two other employees are charged along with the company as
part of an investigation into bid- and auction-rigging in the
municipal bond market. Rubin, the firm’s former chief financial
officer, took kickbacks for running sham auctions for the
investments, prosecutors said. All pleaded not guilty.  “The trial continuance sought by this petition arises from
an impending family tragedy that will have an inevitable but
very unfortunate end,” Rubin’s lawyer, Bradley Simon, said Dec.
16 in a petition to the Manhattan-based Court of Appeals.  Rubin, who lives in California, says his wife is in the
final stages of aggressive pancreatic cancer. The couple have
seven children, the youngest 2 1/2, he said.  “Some reasonable continuance is appropriate,” the defense
lawyer said. “Mr. Rubin plainly cannot abandon his wife and
family for two months at this critical time.”  The case is U.S. v. Rubin, 1:09-cr-01058, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Novell-Microsoft Trial Over WordPerfect Ends as Jurors Deadlock  Novell Inc. (NOVL) ’s antitrust lawsuit against  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
over the WordPerfect computer program ended in a mistrial after
jurors said they were unable to reach a unanimous verdict.  Jurors in federal court in Salt Lake City told the judge
Dec. 16 that they were deadlocked after deliberating for three
days. After talking to the 12-member panel, U.S. District Judge
J. Frederick Motz dismissed the jurors, some of whom were in
tears. The trial began Oct. 18.  Novell sought as much as $1.3 billion in damages over
allegations that Microsoft, while developing the Windows 95
operating system in 1994, blocked an element of the software to
thwart Novell’s WordPerfect and Quattro Pro programs.  Novell will probably seek a retrial, said Jim Lundberg, an
attorney for the company, who said the jury vote was 11-1
against Microsoft.  “We are hoping that in retrial, although it is technically
complicated, that we can convince a jury that Novell’s claims
are valid,” he said in an interview.  Steve Aeschbacher, a lawyer for Microsoft, said in an
interview the company will probably renew its bid to have the
case dismissed for “legal deficiency,” citing flawed antitrust
theories.  “We are disappointed,” Jim Jardine, another attorney for
Microsoft, said in an interview. “We hoped to get a verdict.
But we are confident. This jury was a very diligent jury, and
there are other steps that we can do to move forward.”  Five jurors contacted by Microsoft after they were
dismissed said they would not have awarded damages to Novell,
Tim Brown, a spokesman for Microsoft, said in an e-mail.  “There was one juror that had difficulty,”  Jeffrey
Johnson , a lawyer for Novell, said after the mistrial. “He had
strongly held views and he wasn’t going to budge.”  The case is Novell Inc. v. Microsoft Corp., 04-01045, U.S.
District Court, District of Utah (Salt Lake City).  For more, click here.  Cameron to Pay BP $250 Million in Gulf Oil Spill Settlement  Cameron International Corp. (CAM) , the maker of the blowout
preventer on  BP Plc ’s Macondo well that caused the worst
offshore U.S. oil spill, will pay $250 million to settle all
claims in the accident.  BP will fully indemnify Cameron against all damage claims,
though not for fines or penalties, the companies said in
separate statements Dec. 16. London-based BP will apply the
money to the $20 billion fund for spill victims that it set up
last year, the company said.  Cameron, based in Houston, is the fourth company to reach a
settlement with BP over the spill. Cement contractor  Halliburton
Co. (HAL)  and  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , owner of the Deepwater Horizon rig that
burned and sank, have yet to agree on a payout ahead of the Feb.
27 New Orleans trial that will determine liability for the
disaster.  “Today’s settlement allows BP and Cameron to put our legal
issues behind us and move forward to improve safety in the
drilling industry,” BP Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley said
in a statement.  The Macondo accident killed 11 workers and triggered a
spill that the government says gushed almost 5 million barrels
of oil into the Gulf of Mexico. It led to hundreds of lawsuits
against BP and its partners and contractors, including multiple
claims brought by vessel captains, residents and others exposed
to chemicals and oil during the cleanup.  “This agreement with BP is the right action, as it removes
uncertainty facing Cameron in the litigation associated with the
Deepwater Horizon event,” Cameron CEO Jack Moore said in the
statement. Cameron expects insurers to fund at least $170
million of the settlement and it will take a charge for the rest
in the fourth quarter.  McCormick & Schmick’s Settles Lawsuits Over Landry’s Offer  McCormick & Schmick’s Seafood Restaurants Inc. (MSSR)  moved a step
closer to being acquired by  Landry’s Inc.  by settling
shareholder lawsuits over the $131.6 million takeover.  Under the settlement, which requires approval from Delaware
Chancery Court Judge J. Travis Laster, investors will get more
information about the process leading to the $8.75-a-share deal
and the investors’ lawyers will negotiate a fee award with the
companies, according to court documents filed Dec.16.  The settlement “shall not be deemed a presumption,
concession or admission by any defendant of any fault, liability
or wrongdoing,” McCormick said in the filing.  Matthew Sherman, a spokesman for McCormick, didn’t return
an e-mail seeking comment on the settlement.  The settlement was reached before a hearing scheduled in
Wilmington Dec. 16 where shareholders who sued seeking a better
price from Landry’s planned to ask Laster to issue an injunction
to block the sale.  The case is In Re McCormick & Schmick’s Shareholder
Litigation, CA7058, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Ex-UBS Trader Fires Lawyers in Unauthorized Trading Case  Former  UBS AG (UBSN)  trader Kweku Adoboli dismissed the lawyers
defending him over allegations he caused the Swiss bank $2.3
billion in losses from unauthorized trading and hired London law
firm Bark & Co.  Adoboli, 31, is no longer using Kingsley Napley in London
to advise him in the case, Melanie Riley, a spokeswoman for the
firm, said Dec.16. Tim Harris of Bark & Co. is now representing
him, a receptionist at the London law firm said.  Adoboli is scheduled to appear in court next week to enter
a plea in the case. He was granted a four-week adjournment last
month, when he was initially scheduled to enter a plea at a
London criminal court.  His legal team said at the hearing last month they needed
more time to gain “a better understanding of exactly what it
was that preceded the calamitous losses.”  Adoboli has been in custody since Sept. 15 when UBS asked
London police to arrest him on suspicion of causing the loss
from unauthorized trading. He is being held at Wandsworth prison
in southwest London.  The former trader, who holds a Ghanaian passport, is
charged with fraud and false accounting dating back to 2008.
Prosecutors have said he falsified records on exchange-traded-
fund transactions. UBS said the loss came from trading in
Standard & Poor’s 500, DAX and EuroStoxx index futures. The
trades’ risk was masked by fictitious positions, according to
the bank.  Adoboli has said through his lawyers he was “sorry beyond
words” for “his disastrous miscalculations.”  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  Court News  Ex-El Paso County, Texas, Judge Charged With Taking Bribes  A former  Texas  judge was accused by the U.S. of taking
bribes in 2007 in exchange for his vote to refinance about $40
million in El Paso County debt and replace a county financial
adviser.  The ex-judge, Antonio Guillermo Cobos, 44, was charged with
three counts of conspiracy and fraud, Robert Pitman, the U.S.
attorney in San Antonio, said Dec.16 in a statement. If
convicted, Cobos faces as long as 20 years in prison on each of
the counts, according to Pitman.  “The citizens of El Paso County expect, and are entitled,
to have their elected representatives make decisions on the
basis of the merits of what they are voting on, not whether or
how they can personally benefit,” Pitman said in the statement.  Daryl Fields, a spokesman for Pitman, couldn’t provide the
name of Cobos’s lawyer.  The indictment of Cobos and a co-defendant was the eighth
one in a Federal Bureau of Investigation probe that began in
2004, according to the statement.  The case is U.S. v. Cobos, 11-3019, U.S. District Court,
Western District of Texas (El Paso).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 