-- Spanish Notes Rise on Collateral Speculation; French, Belgian Bonds Fall
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2011-12-19T16:57:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/french-bonds-decline-after-fitch-lowers-rating-outlook-belgian-notes-drop.html
Spanish  two-year notes rose  for a
seventh day, the longest streak of gains in more than a year, on
speculation banks bought the debt to use as collateral when the
 European Central Bank  starts offering three-year loans tomorrow.  France’s 10-year bonds fell for the first time in five days
as the nation sold 7 billion euros ($9.1 billion) in Treasury
bills after  Fitch Ratings  lowered its credit outlook. Belgium’s
two-year notes trimmed six days of gains after its rating was
cut two levels to Aa3 by Moody’s Investors Service on Dec. 16.
When the ECB starts its longer-term refinancing operation
tomorrow, banks can borrow unlimited funds in return for
eligible collateral, including euro-region government bonds.  “The three-year long-term refinancing operation from the
ECB will be the major event for the market this week,” said
Niels From, chief analyst at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen. “The
focus will be on how popular it is going to be and you may see
banks buying up some of the short end of the peripherals to use
at the operations.”  Spain ’s two-year note yields fell eight basis points, or
0.08 percentage point, to 3.38 percent at 4:22 p.m. London time.
They have dropped 155 basis points in the past seven trading
days, the longest run of declines since October 2010. The 2.5
percent security due October 2013 rose 0.15, or 1.50 euros per
1,000-euro ($1,302) face amount, to 98.445. The nation’s 10-year
yield declined 14 basis points to 5.17 percent.  Rating Outlook  Italian two-year note yields dropped below 5 percent for
the first time since Nov. 1, declining as much as 33 basis
points to 4.96 percent before settling at 5.16 percent. The 10-
year yield fell 18 basis points to 6.83 percent.  The ECB is resisting pressure to increase bond purchases,
saying governments need to find a lasting solution to the
sovereign-debt crisis. It has spent 211 billion euros on
 government bonds  since its program started in May last year and
settled 635 million euros of purchases in the week through Dec.
9, the smallest amount since it resumed its market interventions
in August. The ECB said today it settled 3.36 billion euros of
purchases in the week through Dec. 16.  The Frankfurt-based central bank has instead focused on
helping the banking industry with measures including tomorrow’s
offer of unlimited three-year loans. It’s up to the banks to
decide what to do with the money, ECB President  Mario Draghi 
told the Financial Times in an interview conducted on Dec. 14.  ECB Loans  “One of the things that they may do is to buy sovereign
bonds,” Draghi said. “But it is just one. And it is obviously
not at all an equivalent to the ECB stepping up bond buying.”  ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said he expects
“significant” demand for the bank’s three-year loans.  “It’s an important instrument for banks,” Constancio told
Bloomberg Television in an interview in  Frankfurt  today. “They
face very high refinancing needs early next year related to the
repayment of medium-term debt.”  Fitch on Dec. 16 revised its outlook for the credit grades
of Belgium, Spain,  Slovenia ,  Italy , Ireland and Cyprus to
negative and said  France  is more exposed to the crisis than
other top-rated euro-region countries.  France’s  10-year bond yields  rose four basis points to 3.10
percent, while its two-year note yields climbed seven basis
points to 0.98 percent.  French ‘Concern’  “There’s clearly a concern that it’s just a matter of time
before France is downgraded,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-
income strategist at RIA Capital Markets Ltd. in Edinburgh.
“That’s making investors pretty cautious on France,” which is
weighing on the bonds, he said.  France sold 3.5 billion euros of debt due March 15 2012 at
an average yield of 0.005 percent. Investors bid for 2.6 times
the amount of bills allotted. That compares with a so-called
bid-to-cover of 1.7 times at the previous auction of similar-
maturity securities held Dec. 12, which were sold at 0.222
percent.  The nation also sold 1 billion euros of 175-day bills, 1.5
billion euros of 329-day bills and 1 billion euros of 56 day
bills.  Belgium ’s two-year note yields climbed nine basis points to
2.68 percent, while its 10-year yields advanced eight basis
points to 4.38 percent.  Greece  is scheduled to sell 1 billion euros of three-month
bills tomorrow, while Spain is due to auction three- and six-
month securities.  Conference Call  Euro-area finance ministers were scheduled to begin a
conference call at 3:30 p.m. Brussels time to discuss 200
billion euros in additional funding through the  International
Monetary Fund  and the mechanics of a so-called fiscal compact
that was negotiated at a Dec. 9 European Union summit, according
to two people familiar with the planning.  Volatility on Austrian and Spanish debt was the highest
among euro-area nations tracked by Bloomberg today, according to
measures of 10-year bonds, two- and 10-year yield spreads and
credit-default swaps. The yield difference between  Austria ’s
two-year and 10-year securities moved 1.5 times the 90-day
average, the gauge showed.  German two-year note yields fell one basis point to a
record low 0.207 percent. Ten-year bund yields rose three basis
points to 1.88 percent. They have dropped about one percentage
point this year as the euro-area sovereign-debt crisis
intensified, boosting investment in the region’s benchmark
securities.  German bonds have handed investors a 2.8 percent gain so
far this month, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies,
boosting year-to-date returns to 9.5 percent. French bonds have
returned 4.8 percent this year, the indexes show, while Spain’s
have gained 5.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 