-- Flights From Paris, Lyon Are Delayed as Security Staff Extend Their Strike
-- B y   M a r t h e   F o u r c a d e   a n d   T h o m a s   M u l i e r
-- 2011-12-19T12:53:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/french-flights-face-delays-as-strikes-continue.html
Flights from Paris’s Charles de
Gaulle airport were delayed and Lyon’s Saint-Exupery airport is
canceling a third of its departures today as security staff
extended their strike for a fourth day.  Workers are “taking the French hostage as they go on
holiday,” said Valerie Pecresse, the government’s spokeswoman.  The delays from the strike by security workers demanding
higher wages come as  France ’s schools enter the first week of
their year-end holiday. Talks between representatives of the
workers and management yesterday resulted in “total failure,”
newspaper  Les Echos  reported, citing labor unions.  At Paris’s Roissy Charles de Gaulle airport, passengers
traveling through Terminal 2 should expect security delays,
 Aeroports de Paris (ADP)  said on its website. The average delay is 45
minutes, it said in an e-mailed statement. The operator of the
airport said no cancellations are expected, adding that as of 11
a.m., 165 of the day’s 630 flights had taken off.  Air France canceled four flights from Lyon to Paris,
Amsterdam and Bordeaux, and said on its website that it is
trying to minimize delays from the French capital.  Air France (AF) 
uses Terminal 2 at Paris’s CDG to fly passengers to  Hong Kong ,
 New York  and Santiago.  Lyon’s airport, used by  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  to fly passengers to
destinations such as Edinburgh, Prague and Casablanca, is
suffering the most from the walkout of security workers who
check passengers and bags. To speed things up, luggage requiring
special handling such as skis, snowboards and golf caddies won’t
be loaded on planes, Aeroports de Lyon said on its website.  ‘Home for Christmas’  “We are hopeful that the cancellations are now behind us,
as it’s one of the busiest times of the year,” Paul Moore, a
spokesman for EasyJet, said in a telephone interview. “Our
focus is on getting people home for Christmas.”  EasyJet, based in Luton,  England , canceled flights in
recent days because of the strike but it plans to operate a full
schedule today, despite delays, according to Moore.  Other French airports including Toulouse are less affected,
Le Parisien said. Service at Paris’s Orly airport is normal, ADP
said in its statement today.  The government intends to introduce a measure in January
that will force strike plans to be publicized 48 hours in
advance, Pecresse told France Info radio today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marthe Fourcade at 
 mfourcade@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  