-- Gafisa Chief Executive Says Stock Plunge Fueled by Borrowing-Cost Concerns
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2011-12-19T22:11:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/gafisa-chief-executive-says-stock-plunge-fueled-by-borrowing-cost-concerns.html
Brazilian homebuilder  Gafisa SA ’s
stock plunge may stem from investors’ concerns about the
company’s higher-than-expected borrowing costs in a sale of
promissory notes, Chief Executive Officer Alceu Duilio Calciolari said.  Gafisa isn’t using the sale, announced Dec. 5, to shore up
its balance sheet or refinance debt as it already has 800
million reais ($428.4 million) in cash, Calciolari said. The
company plans to use the proceeds as bridge financing for a
“strategic” plan to be carried out over the next four months,
he said, declining to elaborate further. The stock plunged 13
percent today, the most since November 2008, and is down 20
percent since the note sale was announced.  “It must have caused some discomfort because I think there
was an expectation for a lower cost,” Calciolari said in a
telephone interview from Sao Paulo.  Brazil ’s fourth-biggest homebuilder by revenue plans to
issue 230 million reais in promissory notes with maturities of
360 days, the first series at 126 percent of the interbank
overnight lending rate, known as CDI, and the second at 125
percent, according to its Dec. 5 regulatory filing.  Concerns over Gafisa’s ability to carry out a plan to
reduce business at low-income unit Construtora Tenda SA and
focus more on high-income Alphaville Urbanismo SA may also be
fueling declines, the executive said. Profit plunged 60 percent
in the third quarter from a year earlier amid rising costs at
Tenda, the company said Nov. 14.  “The market got a bit scared,” he said. “We have to
expect these exaggerated reactions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  