-- Germany Reaches Out to ‘Indispensable’ U.K. After Summit Spat
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2011-12-19T16:05:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/germany-reaches-out-to-indispensable-u-k-after-summit-spat.html
German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  extended an olive branch to the U.K. after a spat
over European Union efforts to stem the euro-area debt crisis,
saying that Britain is an “indispensable partner” in the EU.  Westerwelle, speaking in London today after talks with U.K.
Foreign Secretary  William Hague , said it is in the interest of
both countries that the euro-region crisis is tackled. Future
decisions for the 27-member EU should be taken jointly if it is
to compete with emerging world powers such as  China , he said.  “The European Union is not only the answer to the darkest
chapter of our own history, it is also a  life insurance  in times
of globalization,” Westerwelle told reporters. “No country is
strong and big enough to face the challenges of globalization”
on its own.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s decision to refuse to join a
German-led initiative for Europe-wide controls on debt with
near-automatic sanctions on offenders caused a rift within the
bloc and left the U.K. isolated.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
after the leaders’ summit that she didn’t believe Cameron “was
ever with us at the table,” while Cameron said that “what was
on offer just wasn’t good enough for Britain.”  Westerwelle told personal anecdotes of postwar German
relations with wartime enemies that are now allies and memories
of the Berlin Wall as he sought to explain the importance that
Germany attaches to the EU. Germany and Britain must “build
bridges” to restore ties after the summit, he said.  City Guarantees  Cameron demanded concessions at the Brussels summit for the
U.K.’s financial industry based in the  City of London  that
Merkel and French President Nicolas Sarkozy said they weren’t
prepared to grant. Britain is standing by its conditions, though
the disagreement won’t get in the way of dialog, Hague said.  “We haven’t been trawling over any negative consequences
of that at this meeting,” Hague said. “We’re looking forward
to the challenges to come identifying the vast range of areas
within the European Union where Britain and Germany will be
working together, intensifying those areas in many regards.”  Hague cited “new initiatives to push forward in the single
market,” without giving details.  Westerwelle sought to reassure U.K. citizens that there is
no “hidden agenda” against the City, saying that “it is
absolutely important that the City has a positive and prosperous
future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  