-- Germans Ponder If Europe Behaves Like Them Would That Backfire
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2011-12-19T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/germans-ponder-if-europe-behaves-like-them-would-that-backfire.html
Germany’s drive to mold the rest of
 Europe  into its economic image may come at a cost for the
country’s export machine.  As governments from Italy to  Spain  and Ireland seek to
convince Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and bondholders that they can
fix their balance sheets, officials are pushing through policies
designed to restore their competitiveness.  The risk to Germany, whose exports account for almost half
of gross domestic product, is that transforming the region’s
struggling nations into blueprints of itself may work too well.
Efforts by euro-region governments to cut labor costs may help
exporters across southern Europe challenge the dominance of
German competitors, ranging from  Siemens AG , Europe’s largest
engineering company, to carmaker  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG .  “It’s true, it’s our fate that competition will increase
and we’ll have to hurry up to get better as well,”Wolfgang Clement, a former government minister who oversaw former German
Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder ’s economic policy revamp, said in
an interview. “My big concern is that we become complacent amid
all this talk of  Germany  being strong.”  Germany, dubbed “the sick man of Europe” after its
struggles to cope with the aftermath of reunification that began
in 1990, has turned itself into Europe’s growth engine and the
world’s third-biggest exporter after  China  and the U.S. in 2010
by squeezing wages and diversifying manufacturing.  Export Growth  German  labor  costs rose at half the pace of  Greece ’s in the
10 years through 2010, according to the IMK economic institute
in Dusseldorf. Export growth averaged 5.2 percent per year in
the same period, compared with 3.1 percent for Italy.  With the euro region still Germany’s largest export market,
Merkel is pushing debt-strapped nations to follow her country’s
lead and push through measures to promote economic growth and
reduce deficits.  “I would rather focus on growing competitiveness in Europe
than constantly having to worry about rescue programs,” Merkel
said in March. “We’re ensuring that Europe as a whole
improves.”  That same month, Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  got most of the European Union to sign up to the so-
called Euro-Plus Pact to boost competitiveness.  While efforts to stem Europe’s debt crisis have focused on
coordinating fiscal policies, leaders also have sought measures
to foster growth. As market turmoil threatens economies and
corporate earnings across the region, cash-strapped euro members
are succumbing to such pressure in order to catch up with
better-performing peers.  Revamp Call  Italy  and Spain, Germany’s biggest potential rivals, should
revamp their economies to improve competitiveness that is below
the region’s average, the  European Commission  says. As both
countries struggle to cope with bond yields close to euro-era
records, Italy should make labor cheaper and Spain should
improve productivity and reform its wage practices, according to
the commission.  Increases in employment costs of all euro nations outpaced
Germany’s in the decade through 2010. German hourly labor costs
rose an average 1.7 percent per year, while they jumped 2.9
percent in Portugal, 3.2 percent in Italy, 3.4 percent in Greece
and 4.1 percent in Spain, the labor union-affiliated IMK
institute said Dec. 12. The figures were based on calculations
from Eurostat, the EU statistics agency.  “Based on the wage restraint we’ve seen over the past
years in Germany, we still have a certain head start,” said
Thilo Heidrich, a Bonn-based economist at Deutsche Postbank AG.
“Over the medium term though, competition should increase.”  Pledged Measures  Spanish Prime Minister-elect  Mariano Rajoy  pledged
yesterday that his new government will overhaul the labor market
in the first quarter and cut taxes for small companies. Italy,
the region’s third-largest economy after Germany and France,
plans to overhaul its employment laws. Details will be announced
“within weeks,” Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said on Dec. 4.  The challenge for such countries will be to match Germany.
Schroeder unveiled his package of labor, health, pension and tax
policy changes in March 2003, focused on revamping the economy
by 2010. It took almost two years before the labor market began
to show results, said Clement, who served under the Social
Democrat chancellor as economy and labor minister.  ‘Long Process’  “It’s a very long process to become competitive,” said
 Andreas Scheuerle , an economist at Dekabank in  Frankfurt . “It
took a long time for German companies to boost their
competitiveness by means of wage restraint.”  Monti can change the nation’s economy for the better, maybe
in a shorter period than it took Schroeder’s government, said
Giancarlo Losma, president of filtration systems maker Losma SpA
in Curno, Italy, which is about 55 kilometers (34 miles)
northeast of Milan.  “I know that it took Germany more or less seven years to
reap the benefits of the actions by Mr. Schroeder,” he said.
“We need to move faster this time. I’m convinced that we’ll get
some positive feedback in a shorter time.”  Some Italian exporters are already well positioned to
benefit. Ralph Wiechers, chief economist at Germany’s VDMA
machine maker’s lobby, said in an interview that Italy has
always been “a competitive rival.”  Clement, who’s a member of supervisory boards at companies
including Ascheberg, Germany-based  Daldrup & Soehne AG (4DS) , a
provider of drilling services, agrees with Wiechers.  Italian Rivalry  “Northern Italy, especially the region around Milan, is as
good as Baden-Wuerttemberg” in Germany, home to such companies
as  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Robert Bosch GmbH , he said. “It’s as good as
it gets in Europe.”  One Italian export champion is Milan-based  Luxottica Group
SpA (LUX) , the world’s largest eyewear maker, which on Oct. 24
reported third-quarter earnings growth that exceeded analysts’
estimates. Chief Executive Officer Andrea Guerra said he sees
“significant opportunities for growth.” The company’s 10
percent share-price drop this year compares with the 28 percent
slump of the benchmark  FTSE-MIB (FTSEMIB)  stock index.  Companies outside Germany have started squeezing workers to
increase productivity and ease pressure on margins. Italian
carmaker  Fiat SpA (F)  and its former heavy-vehicle unit Fiat
Industrial SpA signed a collective labor deal with 86,000
employees on Dec. 13 to lengthen shifts and shorten breaks in
exchange for a 20 billion-euro ($26 billion) investment plan.  Employees and executives at Nicolas Correa SA, Spain’s
biggest maker of milling machines, now clean up their own desks
to reduce costs. They also voluntarily took a 25 percent pay cut
in 2009, Ana Nicolas Correa, secretary of the board, said in an
interview. The company exports 95 percent of its products.  Stronger economies in southern Europe would benefit Germany
as it would bolster sales for exporters, said  Ralph Solveen , an
economist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt.  “If there were more people employed in northern Italy,
they might also spend more money and possibly even buy German
cars,” he said. “Overall, there’s a chance that Germany would
benefit more than it would lose.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  