-- Two-year German Note Yields Fall to Record on Europe, North Korea Concern
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2011-12-19T08:20:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/german-two-year-note-yields-fall-to-record-on-europe-north-korea-concern.html
German  two-year note yields  fell to
a euro-era record as the prospect of lower credit ratings for
France and  Spain  and the death of North Korean leader  Kim Jong
Il  underpinned demand for the safest assets.  Ten-year yields were within three basis points of a one-
month low. France’s two-year notes rose even after  Fitch Ratings 
last week lowered the nation’s credit outlook and said it may
cut Spain’s ranking. France is scheduled to sell 7 billion euros
($9.1 billion) of Treasury bills. Asian stocks extended last
week’s losses after North Korean state television confirmed
Kim’s death, stoking concern for regional instability that
boosted demand for higher-yielding assets.  German note yields were little changed at 0.23 percent at
7:44 a.m.  London  time after falling to 0.214 percent to match a
record low set Dec. 16. The 0.25 percent security due December
2013 rose 0.05, or 50 euro cents per 1,000-euro face amount, to
100.05.  Ten-year bund yields were three basis points higher at 1.88
percent. They have dropped about 1.1 percentage point this year
as the euro-area’s sovereign-debt crisis intensified, boosting
investment in the region’s benchmark securities.  Fitch lowered France’s credit outlook and put other euro-
area nations on review Dec. 16, saying an overall solution to
the debt crisis may be “technically and politically beyond
reach.” Belgium’s rating was cut two levels to Aa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service the same day.  German bonds have handed investors a 2.8 percent gain so
far this month, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies,
boosting year-to-date returns to 9.5 percent. French bonds have
gained 4.8 percent this year so far, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 