-- Gingrich Challenge to Child-Labor Law Backed in State Capitals
-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 2011-12-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/gingrich-challenge-to-child-labor-law-backed-in-state-capitals.html
Newt Gingrich  isn’t the only
Republican who wants to relax U.S. laws that have restricted
work by children for more than seven decades.  Republican governors and state lawmakers, who succeeded
this year in curbing union powers, are pushing to revise their
child-labor laws to help companies such as groceries get
workers. Wisconsin will let employers treat teenagers as adults
in pay and hours, and Maine lawmakers want to let companies keep
teens working longer hours.  The moves pose a challenge to child-labor laws, established
at the federal level in 1938 to protect youths from working long
hours on dangerous machinery instead of going to school.
Republicans and businesses that share Gingrich’s view see easing
the restrictions as part of their effort to cut back  government
regulation  while giving teenagers a chance to learn valuable
work habits.  “How come it’s OK, even exemplary, for teenagers to spend
40 hours a week in sports, glee club, chorus, debate society, or
any other select activity sanctioned by the social elite, but if
you are a teenager who wants to work or needs to work, there are
limits?” Dick Grotton, president of the Maine Restaurant
Association, based in Augusta, said in an interview. “Kids
working is not a bad thing.”  The U.S. Fair Labor Standards Act sets a minimum age of 14
for most work and bars children under 18 from hazardous jobs.
The law remained intact after the  Supreme Court  knocked down a
challenge in 1941, and its champions say Gingrich is leading an
effort to undermine it. Some states such as  Maine  have laws that
exceed federal requirements, and Republican legislators are
targeting the state regulations.  ‘Anti-Worker Policies’  “This is part of a coordinated effort by conservatives
across the country to use the economic crisis to shred critical
worker protections,” Anne Thompson, a policy analyst at the
National Employment Law Project, a Washington-based group that
advocates for worker rights, said in an interview.  Gingrich, leading in polls among candidates for the 2012
Republican presidential nomination, used a speech at  Harvard
University  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , last month to depict the
restrictions as undermining opportunities for the poor.  “It is tragic what we do in the poorest neighborhoods,
entrapping children in, first of all, child laws, which are
truly stupid,” the former House speaker said.  He reaffirmed the position during a Dec. 10 debate among
the Republican candidates in  Iowa , suggesting children replace
union janitors in  New York ’s public schools.  Cafeteria, Library  “You give lots of poor kids a work experience in the
cafeteria, in the school library, in the front office,”
Gingrich said. “I’ll stand by the idea young people ought to
learn how to work. Middle-class kids do it routinely. We should
give poor kids the same chance to pursue happiness.”  Gingrich’s comments haven’t been embraced universally among
his fellow Republicans or business groups.  “To have kids work in the library and to help out in
school and to clean the blackboards does not require changing
our child-labor laws,”  Mitt Romney , the former Massachusetts
governor who is also seeking the Republican nomination, said
during the Iowa debate.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s largest business
lobbying group, declined to comment on the issue. “We don’t get
involved in presidential politics, and therefore we don’t weigh
in on candidates’ proposals,”  Blair Latoff , a Chamber of
Commerce spokeswoman, said.  Wal-Mart, McDonald’s  Easing child-labor laws would most benefit companies that
employ low-wage workers, including retailers such as Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. and operators of fast-food restaurants such as
 McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , according to Thompson of the National
Employment Law Project.  Greg Rossiter, a spokesman for Wal-Mart, declined to
comment. Danya Proud, a spokeswoman for McDonald’s, didn’t
respond to phone and e-mail requests for comment.  Representative  George Miller  of  California , the top
Democrat on the House Labor and Workforce Committee, said in an
interview that attacks on child-labor laws are about
“demonizing the poor.”  “A kid with a parent working two low-wage jobs to pay the
rent knows what a work ethic is,” he said. “She doesn’t need
any more hard knocks from the likes of Newt Gingrich. What she
needs is access to great education and her parents need a
vibrant job market. You get neither when you repeal child-labor
laws and replace Mom and Dad with underage children.”  Adds to Baggage  While Gingrich’s comments may appeal to conservatives in
Republican primaries, they would hurt him in a contest against
President  Barack Obama , Tobe Berkovitz, a political
communications professor at  Boston University , said.  “It adds to his baggage if he needed to slink to the
middle in a general election,” he said in an interview.
“That’s one of the charms and one of the foibles of Newt
Gingrich. What was meant to be a comment on developing a work
ethic now looks like he is stepping over the line into trashing
protections for young people.”  In  Maine , Republicans lawmakers rolled back child-labor
laws this year, with backing from Governor Paul LePage.
Legislation increased the number of hours teenagers could work
and let companies pay them a “training wage.” Under the pay
measure, workers younger than 20 would earn $5.25 an hour, less
than the state’s $7.50 an hour minimum wage.  Working at 14  “I don’t see why kids can’t go to work when they are 14 or
15 -- it makes no sense to me,” LePage said in an October
interview with the Augusta-based Capitol News Service.  Wisconsin  rolled back state laws this year limiting the
hours 16- and 17-year-olds can work.  Wisconsin and Maine changed their laws in response to
lobbying by groups representing restaurants and grocery stores,
which said restricting teenage labor burdened businesses with
cumbersome paperwork.  “It wasn’t like they were trying to overwork these kids or
create a sweatshop,” said Michelle Kussow, a lobbyist for the
 Wisconsin  Grocers Association. “They just want to give kids
that great first opportunity you get in a grocery store.”  James Sherk, a labor-policy analyst at the Washington-based
 Heritage Foundation , which advocates for free markets, said
Gingrich’s position goes beyond the Republican mainstream.  “There is quite a difference between child labor and
teenage labor,” Sherk said in an interview. “Policies focusing
on teenage labor allows them to get work experience, teaches
them to wake up in the morning on a Saturday.”  Some Republican lawmakers would go as far as Gingrich. In
 Missouri , Republican State Senator Jane Cunningham sought
unsuccessfully this year to eliminate a ban on employment of
children younger than 14. She doesn’t plan to try again,
according to Kit Crancer, Cunningham’s chief of staff.  In  Utah , first-term Republican U.S. Senator Mike Lee, who
is supported by groups affiliated with the  Tea Party , posted a
video on his YouTube channel, saying the federal child-labor law
violates the Constitution.  The federal law is “an interference with how parents chose
to raise their kids,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  