-- Glastonbury Plans to Use Cow Dung, Wind to Power Music Festival
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2011-12-19T13:37:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/glastonbury-plans-to-use-cow-manure-wind-to-power-music-festival-in-u-k-.html
The founder of Glastonbury, the U.K.
festival likened to Woodstock, plans to use cow dung from his
west England farm to help power the music event that showcased
Beyonce and Coldplay this summer.  “The big thing is the bio-digester that we’re looking at
to turn the cow manure into energy,” festival organizer Michael Eavis said in an interview. Glastonbury takes place at Worthy
Farm in Somerset in June, attracting more than 150,000 festival-
goers. This year’s acts included U2 and Elbow. Past guests
included  David Bowie , The Smiths and Van Morrison.  “We’re planning a bio-digester at the moment,” Eavis
said. “We’re joining the two farms together and building a big
one with the farm next door so we’ll get a lot of electric from
that, which will be day and night. It’s very good stuff, fossil-
free electricity.” Bio-digesters can convert organic waste into
biogas for electricity and heat energy.  The festival that began in 1970 with tickets for 1 pound
($1.55) including free milk targeted cutting its emissions by 10
percent this year to help contribute to the fight against
 climate change  and reduce environmental impact. The festival
requires 11 million liters (2.9 million gallons) of water during
its five-day run and has almost 3,000 portable toilets across a
site that’s more than 1.5 miles (2.4 kilometers) wide.  Eavis is also planning a 10-kilowatt wind turbine at the
site in a bid to make the festival the greenest ever. The barn
that houses 350 dairy cows already has 1,200 rooftop solar
panels that can generate as much as 200 kilowatts of power. The
panels that can glow red as the sun sets power the milking
equipment and help run the festival during the day, Eavis said.  In addition, the festival uses tractors running on 100
percent biodiesel, solar showers and composting toilets. The
event has joined the  Julie’s Bicycle  initiative that works with
the arts industry to guide on environmental sustainability.  The next Glastonbury opens June 26, 2013, not next summer.
There will be no festival in 2012 as each fifth year the land is
left fallow to regenerate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  