-- Global Logistic, CIC to Buy $1.6 Billion of Japan Warehouses
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u
-- 2011-12-20T09:43:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/global-logistic-cic-to-buy-1-6-billion-of-japanese-assets-from-lasalle.html
Global Logistic Properties Ltd. (GLP) , a
unit of the  Government of Singapore Investment Corp. , and  China 
Investment Corp. agreed to buy 15 Japanese warehouses for 122.6
billion yen ($1.6 billion) as demand for modern storage is
rebounding after the March earthquake.  LaSalle Investment Management  is selling the properties,
with 770,989 square meters (8.3 million square feet) of space
mainly in Tokyo and  Osaka , to a 50-50 joint venture by Global
Logistic and CIC, according to a statement to the  Singapore 
exchange yesterday. The acquisition will be funded with 81
billion yen of debt from a group of Japanese banks, they said.  Japan ’s distribution centers are rebounding from record-
high vacancies two years ago amid demand for modern storage
after the March 11 temblor and tsunami destroyed industrial
spaces, drawing investors. Investment in logistics may surge to
more than 2 trillion yen this year from almost zero in 2002,
according to CBRE Group Inc.  “Global money has returned to Japan in a big way,” said
 Masahiro Mochizuki , an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG. “This
transaction means that real estate prices in Japan have fallen
to an attractive level.”  Global Logistic shares climbed 1.5 percent to S$1.665 at
the close in Singapore. The city’s benchmark  Straits Times Index (FSSTI) 
fell 0.1 percent.  Management Platform  A CIC official, who declined to be named because of company
policy, confirmed the investment.  The purchase is the second-biggest deal in Japan for Global
Logistic. The firm said Sept. 1 it formed a joint venture with
the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board, manager of C$152.3
billion ($147 billion) as of Sept. 30, to invest $250 million
each over three years in the nation.  Global Logistic manages about $11.7 billion of facilities
in Japan and China for customers including Amazon.com Inc. and
Deutsche Post AG’s DHL International GmbH. The acquisition will
add to its strategy to build a “management platform,” boosting
its earnings from managing assets in addition to owning
properties.  The transaction will boost the company’s revenue from fees
generated from asset and property management, as well as
performance incentive fees, said  Jeffrey Schwartz , deputy
chairman at Global Logistic.  ‘Extremely Substantial’  “It’s all upside,” Schwartz said in a phone interview
yesterday. The management fees “will be extremely substantial
and significant over time.”  The acquisition will increase the space Global Logistic has
in Japan to 3.6 million square meters from 2.8 million square
meters, according to the statement.  Prologis Inc. (PLD) , which merged
with AMB Property Corp., has 2.6 million square meters, a slide
presentation from Global Logistic based on CBRE estimates showed.  Global Logistic said it will work with  CIC  and other
partners to seek “opportunities” in other markets. The
Singapore company manages 69 warehouses throughout Japan, it
said before yesterday’s announcement. About half of the
properties are in the greater Tokyo area including at least two
facilities near Narita International Airport.  The higher return of distribution and storage centers has
been partly helped by a shortage in supply after the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008 froze credit
markets. The addition of new space fell by about half in 2009
and plunged 74 percent in 2010 in Japan, Los Angeles-based CBRE
estimated.  Foreign Interest  The properties Global Logistic and CIC are buying are worth
134.8 billion yen, based on the valuations done in August and
October, Global Logistic said.  “The fact the deal is finally closed is good news for
Japan’s property market,” said  Yoji Otani , an analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG in  Tokyo . It “shows overseas investors
interest in Japan,” he said.  GLP and CIC won the bid about six months after the sale
process first started. CIC, ranked the fifth-largest government
fund worldwide, manages $409.6 billion, while Singapore’s GIC is
ranked eighth with $247.5 billion, according to the  Sovereign
Wealth Fund Institute.   “For GLP, it’s a good partnership, it spreads the risk,”
said Victoria Barbary, London-based managing director of Dhana
Advisory, a firm specializing in sovereign wealth funds. “Japan
at the moment could potentially be a great market because things
have been quite lowly priced after the earthquake, but it’s
quite high risk too. They do have quite a lot of Japan exposure
in terms of balanced portfolio of properties. It’s a good deal
both ways.”  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) ,  Kenedix Inc. (4321)  and  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  were
among the bidders, four people familiar with the deal said in
July. The acquisition is the biggest deal in Japan this year,
after Mitsubishi Estate Co. bought two buildings in Tokyo for 80
billion yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  