-- Google’s Practices Need U.S. Antitrust Review, Senators Say
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2011-12-20T01:02:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/google-s-practices-need-u-s-antitrust-review-two-senators-say.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s business practices,
including allegations the company favors its own services in
Internet searches, raise concerns about squelching competition
that need to be reviewed by U.S. regulators, two lawmakers said.  The Federal Trade Commission should determine whether
Google has violated antitrust law or hurt consumers, said
Senator  Herb Kohl , a Wisconsin Democrat and chairman of the
Senate Judiciary antitrust subcommittee, and Senator  Mike Lee  of
 Utah , the panel’s senior Republican, in a letter today to FTC
Chairman Jon Leibowitz.  The FTC this year began an investigation of  Mountain View ,
California-based Google, owner of the world’s most popular
search engine. The FTC is examining whether Google unfairly
ranks search results and is using its control of the Android
mobile operating system to discourage smartphone makers from
using rivals’ applications and services, a person familiar with
the matter said in August.  Google’s practices “warrant a thorough investigation by
the FTC,” the senators wrote in the letter released today. “A
key question is whether Google is using its market power to
steer users to its own web products or secondary services and
discriminating against other websites with which it competes.”  The lawmakers’ letter took no position on the legality of
Google’s practices.  Reserving Judgment  “We appreciate that the committee reserved judgment as we
continue to cooperate with the FTC,” said Adam Kovacevich, a
Google spokesman, in an e-mail. “We are committed to competing
fairly on the Internet’s level playing field.”  Cecelia Prewett, an FTC spokeswoman, said in an e-mail the
agency had received the letter, declining to comment further.  At an event hosted by  Mexico ’s consumer-protection agency
in Mexico City, Leibowitz declined to give specifics of the
probe.  “All I can say is that we are doing an investigation of
Google and that we’re collecting documents and asking questions,
and it involves both our competition and consumer protection
components of our agency,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  