-- Gulf Leaders May Tighten Pressure on Iran
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2011-12-19T15:12:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/gulf-leaders-may-tighten-pressure-on-iran.html
Gulf Cooperation Council leaders
arrived in  Riyadh  today for a two-day meeting that may focus on
measures needed against  Iran  and the impact of unrest in Syria.  The gathering of the six-member group, led by Saudi Arabia
and allied to the U.S., comes amid rising tensions between Iran
and the U.S., which is increasing pressure over the country’s
nuclear program. It follows a year that has brought
unprecedented political change as popular movements swept away
governments in Tunisia, Egypt and  Libya .  Sunni Muslim monarchs in the Gulf have accused Shiite-led
Iran of seeking to foment unrest among the Shiite population in
GCC members including Bahrain, where Saudi Arabia and other
members sent troops to help put down a Shiite uprising. Iran
denies interference and accuses Sunni rulers in Bahrain and
 Saudi Arabia  of discriminating against Shiites.  The Gulf states will try to curb Iranian power by
“tightening up sanctions,” Paul Sullivan, a political
scientist specializing in Middle East security at  Georgetown
University  in  Washington , said in an e-mailed response to
questions. He said they are also cultivating ties “with the
U.S., European Union states and others, to have better backup
against Iran just in case.”  Prince Nayef, Saudi Arabia’s interior minister and crown
prince, met Iranian Intelligence Minister Heydar Moslehi in
Riyadh on Dec. 12 as relations deteriorated.  The leaders are also set to discuss Syria, whose government
agreed today to an Arab League proposal that will allow monitors
into the country to verify compliance with measures to halt
violence against protesters. The UN said more than 5,000 people
have been killed in the nine-month uprising against President
Bashar al-Assad.  ‘Sunni State’  Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest oil-producer and
typically a supporter of Arab leaders challenged by popular
movements, spoke out against Assad’s crackdown. The Syrian
president and most top security officials are from the Alawite
sect, affiliated to Shiism, while most Syrians are Sunnis.  “The Gulf position on  Syria  is that they would like to see
the emergence of a Sunni state more aligned with them,” said
 Theodore Karasik , director of research at the Dubai-based
Institute for Near East and Gulf Military Analysis.  The Arab League imposed sanctions on Syria on Nov. 27,
increasing economic and political pressure on Assad.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  