-- Microsoft Shrinking Margins Loom as Cloud Push Lifts Costs: Tech
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2011-12-19T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/microsoft-shrinking-margins-loom-as-cloud-push-drives-higher-costs-tech.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s push into cloud
computing will help the company compete with  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  and  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  It also will hurt profit margins.  The company’s cloud software lets corporate customers pay a
subscription to do things like manage spreadsheets and corporate
websites with software stored and run on Microsoft’s servers.
The new services also help users view TV shows and edit photos
on the Web.  While that may be great news for customers, the cost of
storing software in Microsoft’s own data centers, combined with
other expenses, means the company may miss profit estimates for
fiscal 2012, said  Heather Bellini , an analyst at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. It also means the good old days of outsized margins
for the software giant may be a thing of the past, said  Jason Maynard , an analyst at  Wells Fargo (WFC)  Securities.  “Nothing will ever be as high as the old model,” said
Maynard, who’s based in  San Francisco .  Profit margins, which shrank to a 22-year low in 2011, are
set to fall further. Gross margins, or the percentage of sales
left after production costs, will narrow 1.6 points to 76
percent in fiscal 2012, the average estimate of analysts
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s after a 2.4-point drop in 2011.  The challenge to Microsoft’s margins stems from decisions
Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  has made in recent years
to invest in new businesses, such as adding content for Xbox and
acquiring Skype Technologies SA for $8.5 billion.  Rising Costs  The pressure will persist beyond this year as more
customers switch to cloud computing, which involves hosting
software on Microsoft’s servers and delivered it over the
Internet. That shifts the cost of storing and operating those
programs to Microsoft.  Microsoft traditionally sold packaged software that, once
developed, costs little to manufacture and distribute. In moving
more business to the cloud, the world’s largest software maker
must take on the costs of running data centers. These expenses
include powering, cooling, housing and maintaining servers that
run the programs for clients.  Mark Moerdler, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.,
estimates that cloud-related costs will range from 15 percent to
25 percent of revenue. That’s about 10 percent more than selling
standard packaged software, he said.  Goldman Sachs’s Bellini said analysts may not be taking
into account a large enough increase in cost of goods sold for
the fiscal year ending in June, which could cause Microsoft to
miss profit predictions. Even Bellini, who lowered her
projection for gross margins and trimmed 9 cents from her
overall profit estimate, said she may not have cut enough.  Microsoft declined to comment for this story.  Growth Challenges  Margin pressure is making some investors leery of Microsoft
stock, and may weigh on the shares in coming months, said Walter
Price, who manages the $3 billion Allianz RCM Technology Fund at
RCM Capital Management in San Francisco.  The shares, which gained 1.7 percent to $26 on Dec. 16,
have declined 6.8 percent this year before today.  Microsoft was already facing a challenging year for profit
growth. The European debt crisis and a sluggish economic
recovery have prompted government and financial customers to
pare spending, while the PC industry is reeling from flooding in
 Thailand  that has slashed production of hard drives.  Companies will boost spending on software and computers at
a slower rate next year than 2011, according to Gartner Inc.,
which said it may cut its forecast even further at the end of
the quarter.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , the largest computer maker,
last month said it’s started to see businesses curb spending.  Xbox Content Fees  Microsoft’s product cycles also point to a year of slower
growth in its flagship Windows and Office software businesses,
according to Rick Sherlund, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.
The two divisions will expand more slowly this year as customers
wait for an update to the  Windows operating system , which
Sherlund expects in October. Microsoft is likely to follow that
with a touch-enabled version of Office productivity software, he
said.  At the same time, costs are rising across businesses.
Microsoft’s Xbox game consoles, which are selling well, are more
expensive to manufacture than software, and the company is
paying more licensing fees for content to run on the Xbox Live
service.  The addition of Skype, increased demand for consulting
services in the server business, and costs of Microsoft’s search
partnership with  Yahoo! Inc . are also adding to the jump in
expenses.  Need for Scale  Including the impact of Skype, operating expenses for the
year will be as much as $29.2 billion, up from a previous
forecast of $28.6 billion, Microsoft said in October.  Reining in cloud computing costs will be key, and that will
depend on how efficient Microsoft can become at running its
massive data centers. The company will need to attract large
numbers of cloud customers to get the services running at scale.
And it will have to remain vigilant on data-center energy and
cooling costs, said Sanford C. Bernstein’s Moerdler.  “They should be able to be pretty efficient and they
should be able to generate net more revenue so the margin will
go down, but earnings per share will go up,” he said. That’s in
line with Microsoft’s own forecasts since starting its move to
the cloud.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in  Seattle  at   dbass2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 