-- Time Warner’s CNN Seeks Digital Deals to Gain on Fox
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2011-12-20T13:17:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/time-warner-s-cnn-looks-to-digital-acquisitions-to-regain-ground-on-fox.html
(Corrects television show’s name in 15th paragraph in
story that ran Dec. 19.)  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s CNN, the pioneer
news network that’s fallen behind newcomers Fox News and  MSNBC ,
is looking to acquisitions as part of an effort to regain ground
by pushing more programming to tablets and smartphones.  The cable news channel, based in Atlanta, wants deals that
could help it capitalize on the growing consumer interest in
television viewing on multiple devices, also known as “TV
everywhere,” according to CNN President  Jim Walton .  “As more tablets are sold and smartphones, it’s only going
to continue to grow,” Walton, 53, said in an interview. CNN is
looking at companies that could aid its expansion onto new
devices as well as its efforts to produce more content, Walton
said. “If it helps us in that goal, we’ll be looking,” he
said. “I wouldn’t rule anything out, but our focus is on
digital.”  “TV everywhere,” a catchall concept for replicating the
full television feed on any digital device, already helps CNN
draw viewers via iPads, iPhones and the Web. The network streams
its entire lineup on those platforms for people who pay for
television. A startup that fits CNN’s digital distribution
strategy might be a good target, especially at a time when
subscriber growth in pay-TV is slowing, Walton said.  CNN acquired  Zite , an iPad app that fashions a digital
magazine from Web content based on the user’s reading habits, in
August. The blog Techvibes.com  reported  at the time CNN had paid
$20 million.  Still In Last Place  CNN trails far behind  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox News for prime-time
viewers and is closer to NBCUniversal’s MSNBC, owned by  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA)  CNN averaged a daily audience of 703,000 for the year
through the end of November, compared with Fox News’ 1.86
million and MSNBC’s 778,000 for the same period, according to
 Nielsen Holdings NV .  CNN has grown more this year than its competitors. The
network increased its prime-time audience 18 percent for the
first 11 months of this year compared with the same period last
year, while Fox News declined 9 percent and MSNBC increased 2
percent, according to Nielsen. Among people aged 25 to 54, the
group advertisers seek, CNN grew its prime-time audience 31
percent to 228,000.  Fox News  fell 15 percent to 427,000 and
MSNBC dropped 0.8 percent to 246,000 for the same period.  Migrating to Web  CNN, nonetheless, remains in last place among the major 24-
hour news providers, and appealing to audiences via the Web and
increasingly popular mobile devices has become crucial to its
growth, according to Walton. The network plans to bundle its
digital audience with its television audience to advertisers.  Consumers are already migrating to the Web more readily for
news content than other television programming, JPMorgan Chase &
Co. analyst Alexia Quadrani said, making digital acquisitions a
vital strategy to news operations like CNN.  “He’s right to focus on it,” Quadrani, who is based in
 New York , said of Walton’s plans. “As an area of investment it
makes sense to me.”  Unlike its competitors, CNN offers its entire programming
digitally, on the Web and on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and iPad, as
long as the viewer confirms they pay for television through a
cable or satellite provider, otherwise known as
“authentication.” The news company is working on a version for
smartphones and tablets that run on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
operating system. CNN’s digital stream is currently available to
70 million pay-TV customers, according to the company.  Time Warner Cable (TWC) , which split off from CNN parent Time
Warner in 2009, is the only major cable operator that doesn’t
offer CNN’s “TV everywhere” service. Christa Robinson, a
spokeswoman for CNN, declined to comment on how many people have
accessed CNN Everywhere.  New Programs  After seeing one of its worst ratings performance last
year, the network made a number of changes to its prime-time
lineup. The company moved “Anderson Cooper 360” up two hours
to 8 p.m. New York time and brought on British journalist  Piers Morgan  to take the 9 p.m. helm from  Larry King , who left the
network at the end of last year. Former CNBC anchor Erin Burnett
debuted on  CNN  this fall at 7 p.m.  Christiane Amanpour  this
month decided to rejoin the network to anchor CNN International.  The new programs have worked well, according to Walton, who
pointed out the time slot for Piers Morgan grew its audience 10
percent this year to 736,000. “CNN is one of the only news
networks to show year-over-year growth,” he said.  “Piers Morgan Tonight” still lags behind Fox News’s
“Hannity,” which drew in 2.1 million viewers on average for
the month of November, compared to 620,000 for “Piers,”
according to Nielsen. It also trails MSNBC’s “Rachel Maddow
Show,” which attracted 983,000 people that month.  Higher Ad Rates  CNN still enjoys higher advertising rates despite smaller
audiences, Walton said, declining to offer exact figures. Fox
News has narrowed that gap in ad rates with CNN, said Rino Scanzoni, chief investment officer for advertising firm  WPP
Plc (WPP) ’s media-buying division GroupM.  “CNN has only a slight advantage over Fox in CPMs,” he
said, referring to advertising rates that are priced at every
thousand impressions. Both CNN and Fox bring in similar
categories of advertisers, he said.  “Marketers aren’t concerned what the political bent is,”
Scanzoni said of the contention Fox News is seen as a more
conservative voice in its political coverage. “Reality is, CNN
had this market to themselves and Fox came along and changed
that in very short order.”  Generates $1.5 Billion  As part of Time Warner’s Turner division, CNN stands as the
company’s main worldwide brand and is often the first source
people turn to when major news breaks, RBC Capital Markets
analyst  David Bank  said.  “It’s a fantastic global brand,” he said. “Obviously,
the property is going to be more valuable when there’s really
important news going on, such as election cycles.”  Bank estimates CNN accounts for around 14 percent of Time
Warner’s cable-derived revenue, or about $1.5 billion annually,
and offering a digital distribution service in the form of “TV
everywhere” will add value. “TV everywhere is one of their
best shots of perpetuating 360 degree utility and getting people
to pay for it,” he said. “People want it.”  Like every cable network, CNN is looking to get more
revenue for its content from cable and satellite operators,
according to Walton. “You can’t not have CNN,” he said. “CNN,
it’s a utility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  