-- IMF Bazooka Is Between Meaningless and Dangerous: Simon Johnson
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2011-12-19T00:05:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/imf-bazooka-is-between-meaningless-dangerous-commentary-by-simon-johnson.html
Financial rescue plans for  Europe 
are becoming ever more fanciful. Increasingly, policy analysts
in Europe and the U.S. turn to the  International Monetary Fund 
to provide what is termed “the bazooka” -- meaning a lot of
money underpinning a scaled-up bailout for Italy, other troubled
countries and, of course, Europe’s failing banks.  This proposal is somewhere between meaningless and
dangerous, depending on its precise form. The good news is that
it will not happen. The bad news is that no one is prepared for
the real consequences of the bazooka proving to be illusory.  The bazooka is a reference to former U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Henry Paulson , who famously remarked in 2008
congressional testimony: “If you’ve got a bazooka, and people
know you’ve got it, you may not have to take it out.” Paulson
was arguing that, if he had the authority to seize  Fannie Mae 
and  Freddie Mac , he wouldn’t necessarily need to use it. He was
quickly proved wrong.  Today’s proposed bazookas are about providing enough
financial firepower so that troubled European governments do not
necessarily have to fund themselves in panicked private markets.
The reasoning is that if an official backstop is at hand,
investors’ fears would abate and governments would be able to
sell bonds at reasonable  interest rates  again.  This idea is just as dubious as Paulson’s original notion.
Markets are so thoroughly rattled that if a financial backstop
is put in place, it would need to be used -- probably to the
tune of trillions of euros of European debt purchases from
sovereigns and banks in coming months. Whether or not it is
used, a plausible bazooka would need to be huge.  Meaningless Suggestion  Involving the IMF in such a proposal is meaningless if the
idea is to use the IMF’s own money. According to the fund, its
ability to  lend  will be boosted to $750 billion. For now, the
latest available  data  on how much the fund thinks it can
actually lend is just under 300 billion  euros .  Even if the IMF went all in for troubled Europe -- an idea
with little support in  emerging markets  -- it wouldn’t make much
difference. Italy’s outstanding public debt of 1.9 trillion
euros is bigger than that of  Greece , Ireland,  Portugal  and  Spain 
combined. The country faces about 200 billion euros in bond
maturities in 2012 and an additional 108 billion euros of bills,
according to Bloomberg News. The euro area’s 2012 sovereign
funding needs are estimated at more than $1 trillion next year
alone, and any credible financing plan needs to fully cover 2012
and 2013 at a minimum. It remains unclear who is willing to fund
European banks in this stress scenario.  The idea that the IMF could tap emerging markets for
additional capital to lend to Europe is met with polite public
demurrals. Behind closed doors, it’s not so polite.  The more innovative ideas involving the IMF include some
financing provided by the  European Central Bank  or national
central banks within the euro area to the IMF, with the fund
then lending this back to Europe.  This would constitute a misguided or even dangerous form of
financial innovation. If the precise arrangement involves the
IMF taking credit risk, its membership should be worried about
losing their capital. The U.S., as the largest single
shareholder, would have the most to lose.  Some officials argue that they could involve the U.S. in
this maneuver without consulting Congress. That’s a
controversial point on which experts disagree. But in any case,
who really wants to do that in a presidential election year? The
 Congressional Budget Office  already scores part of the U.S.
contribution to the IMF as risky. Any further steps in this
direction would raise flags across the political spectrum.  Back-Channel Support  Alternatively, the IMF could provide a back-channel way for
the ECB to evade its own rules against lending directly to
sovereign governments. But if the IMF takes no credit risk, what
is the point? European leaders should face the music and be
explicit about any bailouts. Hiding behind the IMF veil will
only confuse matters more.  Eighty years ago, most prominent officials and private
financiers were confident that the gold standard should and
would remain in place. Starting in 1931, the gold standard
failed as a global financing system, with unpleasant
consequences for many.  As 2011 draws to a close, the age of the global bailout
also seems to be fading. Perhaps the Europeans will find a way
to scale up their own rescues using their own money. Perhaps
they will manage to protect creditors fully, and convince
investors to lend to  Italy  again. More realistically, the
bazooka standard is about to collapse.  ( Simon Johnson , who served as chief economist at the
 International Monetary Fund  in 2007 and 2008, and is now a
professor at the  MIT Sloan School of Management  and a senior
fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, is
a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Paula Dwyer  at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net . 