-- India May Join U.S.-China Trade Spat to Prevent Solar ‘Disaster’
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2011-12-20T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/india-panel-makers-share-china-dumping-concerns-indosolar-says.html
India  may jump into an escalating
U.S.- China  trade fight over solar energy as local manufacturers
lobby New Delhi for protection against imports from rivals
including  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  and  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP)   India may initiate an anti-dumping probe in a month focused
on imports of Chinese solar products, China’s Commerce Ministry
said in a statement yesterday. India’s Commerce Secretary  Rahul Khullar  declined to comment in a phone call.  Indian manufacturers are also seeking a 15 percent tariff
on imports of thin-film solar panels, the country’s Renewable
Energy Ministry Secretary Tarun Kapoor said in an interview. The
biggest thin-film panel company is Tempe, Arizona-based First
Solar.  Indian suppliers such as Tata BP Solar India Ltd.,
 Indosolar Ltd. (ISLR)  and  Moser Baer India Ltd. (MBI)  have failed to benefit
from a rule intended to spawn a domestic manufacturing hub in
one of the world’s fastest-growing markets.  Instead, low-cost Chinese rivals like Suntech and  Trina
Solar Ltd. (TSL)  and U.S. firms backed by preferential trade finance
including First Solar have reaped most of the equipment orders
for 1,100 megawatts of plants to be built by January.  “It’s a disaster in the making,” said K. Subramanya,
chief executive officer of Tata BP Solar, 51 percent-owned by  BP
Plc  and India’s third-biggest cell and panel maker. “I’m
feeling a bit of anguish because we want solar to succeed but we
need fair competition.”  Default, Stalled Production  Local manufacturers have received almost no orders from
developers building plants in India and are producing far below
their factories’ full capacity, Subramanya said. India’s total
manufacturing capacity is about 1,500 megawatts of panels and
500 megawatts of cells, according to Bloomberg New Energy
Finance.  Indosolar, the nation’s biggest cell company, stopped
production in June and has defaulted on 2.75 billion rupees ($52
million) of long-term bank loans as its business became
“unviable,” Fitch Ratings analysts Vivek Jain and Salil Garg
said in a Dec. 5 note. They attributed the company’s problems to
a 62 percent plunge this year in the  selling price of cells  to
about 52 cents a watt amid intense Chinese competition and
declining demand in  Europe  where governments cut subsidies.  “We’re on the same wavelength as the U.S. manufacturers,”
Indosolar Managing Director H. Rahul Gupta said by phone,
referring to an Oct. 19 complaint lodged by Bonn-based
SolarWorld AG’s U.S. unit and six unidentified U.S. companies.  The complaint alleged Beijing uses cash grants, raw-
materials discounts, preferential loans, tax incentives and
currency manipulation to boost exports of solar cells.  U.S. Suppliers Targeted  The Indian complaints extend to both U.S. and Chinese
exporters.  U.S. and Chinese suppliers have benefited from Indian
orders because of cheap credit provided by state-backed lenders,
said Anmol Singh Jaggi, director of Gensol Consultants Pvt.,
which advises project developers.  Indian projects that import U.S. equipment may be eligible
for loans from the Export-Import Bank of the U.S., which charges
about 3 percent to 4 percent interest. After hedging, the cost
of borrowing comes to about 9 percent compared with 13 percent
if they buy and borrow locally, he said.  In some cases, state-backed Chinese companies are offering
to supply equipment and get paid two years later, he said.  “No Indian company can match that,” Jaggi said. “Without
U.S. and Chinese credit, we wouldn’t have any solar projects
getting built.”  Thin-Film Exemption  U.S. and Chinese imports can be brought into the country
tax-free, whereas Indian manufacturers have to pay duties on raw
materials to make the same products. U.S. panel makers including
First Solar and Abound Solar Inc. have also benefited from an
exemption for thin-film products in the government’s Solar
Mission program that requires developers to use local equipment.  “Those are anomalies that must be addressed,” Gupta said.  Indian manufacturers have asked the renewable ministry to
waive duties on raw materials and supplies and to impose a 15
percent tariff on imports of thin-film panels, the ministry’s
Kapoor said by phone from  New Delhi .  “Maintaining open markets globally is critical to making
solar an affordable and meaningful part of the energy mix,”
 Alan Bernheimer , a First Solar spokesman, said in an interview.
He wouldn’t discuss the Indian trade complaints because the
company hasn’t seen any details of the proposals.  The U.S. International Trade Commission on Dec. 2 took the
first step toward imposing added tariffs on Chinese solar
imports, voting unanimously on the petition that called for
anti-dumping and countervailing duties. The commission is now
holding a full investigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  