-- India’s Rajasthan Opens Bidding for 200 Megawatts of Solar Farms
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2011-12-19T07:33:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/india-s-rajasthan-opens-bidding-for-200-megawatts-of-solar-farms.html
India ’s Rajasthan state started
accepting bids from developers to set up 200 megawatts of solar
power projects in an area that has the country’s second-most
solar radiant exposure.  The state plans to auction contracts for 100 megawatts of
photovoltaic plants and 100 megawatts of solar thermal plants,
Naresh Pal Gangwar, chairman of the state-run  Rajasthan
Renewable Energy Corp.  said today by telephone.  Reliance Power Ltd. (RPWR) ,  Shriram EPC Ltd. (SEPC)  and SunEdison, the
solar development unit of  MEMC Electronic Materials Inc. (WFR) , are
among companies that are developing projects in Rajasthan,
believed to have some of India’s most promising resources to
develop energy from sunlight with its sprawling desert terrain.  Solar thermal technology uses sunlight to heat liquids that
produce steam for generators, while photovoltaic plants use
panels to turn sunlight directly into power.  Contracts are available for photovoltaic projects of 5 or
10 megawatts each and for solar-thermal plants of 50 megawatts
each. Companies can bid for both types, according to the
agency’s auction rules.  Unlike contracts awarded by the central government,
Rajasthan will allow companies to import equipment and
technology for their projects.  Bids are due by 3 p.m. local time on Jan. 30 after which
the agency will shortlist candidates who meet all the
eligibility requirements. The bids will be opened around mid-
April.  Plans to also auction an additional 50 megawatts of
projects to companies that pledge to build solar manufacturing
facilities in the state are awaiting government approval, Pal
Gangwar said. Rajasthan had proposed that companies be eligible
for licenses to install 10 megawatts of solar power for every 25
megawatts of manufacturing capacity they build.  The state receives on average the most solar radiant
exposure in India after Gujarat state, according to a joint
 study  by the  India Meteorological Department  and the Ministry of
New and  Renewable Energy .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  