-- Indian Billionaire’s Bank Profits on “Middle India”
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2011-12-20T06:44:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/indian-billionaire-kotak-s-bank-reaps-margins-goldman-can-envy.html
Billionaire Uday Kotak, not content
with 35 percent margins and a No. 1 ranking underwriting Indian
IPOs, is aiming to increase profit next year at both his
investment bank and commercial-lending businesses.  The performance of his  Kotak Mahindra Group (KMB)  could impress
Kotak’s former partner,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which sold its
share in their Indian joint venture in 2006, when the New York-
based firm began independent operations in the country.  Kotak Mahindra,  India ’s best-performing bank stock this
year, had an average pretax profit margin more than triple that
of Goldman Sachs’s 11 percent for the first nine months of 2011.  “Kotak Mahindra today has profit margins that are enviable
by domestic and foreign lenders,” said Sampath Kumar, an
analyst at  India Infoline Ltd. (IIFL) , a brokerage in Mumbai.  The reason is the bank’s strategy of pushing growth in
corporate and consumer lending at a time when investment-banking
revenue has faltered worldwide. The lender’s focus on “middle
India” necessities such as farm tractors is proving profitable,
Kotak said in a Dec. 12 interview in his second-floor office in
the commercial hub of Mumbai’s Nariman Point, overlooking a tiny
patch of green.  Kotak’s commercial bank, the most-profitable lending
business in India, accounts for 60 percent of earnings of the
group, whose subsidiaries include lender Kotak Mahindra Bank
Ltd., investment bank Kotak Mahindra Capital Co. and brokerage
Kotak Mahindra Securities Ltd. That’s a reversal from 2008, when
60 percent of profit came from investment-banking and brokering
activities, said Kotak, the bank’s vice chairman and managing
director. Now, with a drop in takeovers, share sales and trading
revenue, it accounts for 6 percent, he said.  ‘Not Looking Great’  “Right now the outlook is obviously not looking great,”
Kotak, 52, said. “We are going to see significant capacity
reduction in the sector.”  Kotak, who owns a controlling 41 percent stake in the
group, said the money investment banks make no longer justifies
the number of people they employ or their salaries. The industry
has 20 percent to 40 percent excess capacity, and there is a
“correction” under way, he said.  “There are too many firms and too many people per firm,”
Kotak said. “Over the last few years, India was the high-
fashion country around the world. Every global player wanted to
be in India without really analyzing the size of the revenue
pool.”  Lower Salaries  India’s top investment banks compensate bankers at about
half the rate of foreign counterparts operating in the country,
according to Saket Jain, managing partner at recruitment firm
 Vito India Advisors  in Mumbai. A mid-level director at an Indian
investment bank makes about 8 million rupees ($152,000) in
salary before bonus compared with about 13 million rupees
working for a foreign bank, he said.  Lower salaries could catch on as banks realize revenue
can’t support such wages, said Kotak, who was paid 17.8 million
rupees for the year ended in March, according to the company’s
annual report.  “I see combined compensation levels, both fixed and
variable, correcting in this segment, in India, as anywhere else
in the world,” he said. “Supernormal returns, supernormal
compensations, some of it is gone for a long time and probably
not coming back.”  Indian companies raised 296 billion rupees from share sales
in 2011, almost the same volume as in 2005, even as the number
of banks competing to manage those offerings almost doubled to
45, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Kotak Mahindra
Capital is No. 1 in managing initial public offerings in India
this year. Goldman Sachs doesn’t appear in the rankings, having
arranged only one offering of shares of an already-listed
company, the data show.  ‘Partnership Culture’  The fee pool in India was about $1 billion last year,
compared with almost $5 billion for  China , according to  Freeman
& Co. LLC , a New York-based research firm. This year’s fees may
be lower because share offerings are down almost 75 percent and
there were about 40 percent fewer mergers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Kotak, whose stake in the company is worth $2.8 billion, is
ranked No. 15 on Forbes magazine’s  2011 India billionaires list .
He said his approach to leadership was learned growing up in an
extended family of “60 members, under the same roof, with a
single kitchen” in Mumbai.  “Being in the same house, the whole philosophy of getting
along with people, carrying them as teams, was deeply
ingrained,” he said. “I think about leadership as a
partnership culture.”  Mahindra Investment  In 1985, Kotak, then 26, set up Kotak Capital Management
Finance using 3 million rupees he borrowed from friends and
family members who ran a cotton-trading business, he said. The
following year he recruited as an investor the industrialist
 Anand Mahindra , who said in a Dec. 16 telephone interview that
the two met when he became Kotak’s client and admired his “very
mature approach.”  “I told him if he ever thought of going public, I would
support him,” said Mahindra, now vice chairman and managing
director of  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM) , India’s largest tractor
and sport-utility-vehicle maker. “During his wedding reception,
he came and told me he would take me up on that offer.”  The name was changed to Kotak Mahindra Finance. Mahindra
still owns about 3 percent of the company.  On his first visit to  New York , in 1992, Kotak said he saw
that “some of the biggest names in the business were family
names, and they were standing strong 150 years later. We named
our company what we did, saying you should be ready to put your
name on the line in a financial-services business.”  Goldman Venture  Kotak formed a partnership with Goldman Sachs in 1995. In
2006, he paid 3.3 billion rupees to buy out the 25 percent
stakes that the New York-based firm held in the investment
banking and securities businesses.  “Two people can’t own 51 percent each in a company,”
Kotak said. “That was the bottom line. Goldman believed India
was very important. We felt it was equally important for us. We
parted as friends.”  Edward Naylor, a spokesman for Goldman Sachs in  Hong Kong ,
declined to comment.  Kotak said that dealing with Goldman Sachs taught him
things were changing quickly in India and that he had to
professionalize his capital-markets business.  “Discipline, culture, we learned a hell of a lot from
them,” Kotak said.  ‘Aligned With Investors’  After obtaining a banking license in 2003, he now has
India’s fourth-largest private bank by assets, according to
Bloomberg data. Shares of Kotak Mahindra Bank, with about 330
branches and more than 9 million customers, have gained 0.2
percent in 2011, compared with a 32 percent decline in India’s
14-company Bankex Index. The  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  has lost 11
percent this year, heading for its worst annual performance in
three years.  The shares fell 3.1 percent at 12:03 p.m. in Mumbai,
compared with a 0.3 percent drop in the benchmark Sensex index.  “From an investor perspective, it’s great to have Kotak at
the helm,” said  Brian Hunsaker , an analyst in Hong Kong at
Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc. “He’s built the business, his
interests are aligned with investors, and he will presumably be
running it for many years to come.”  Kotak Mahindra’s investment bank posted a loss of 40
million rupees for the quarter ended Sept. 30 compared with a 70
million-rupee profit a year earlier. Profit at the commercial-
banking unit increased 34 percent to 2.6 billion rupees.  ‘Consistent’ Growth Story  Overall, group profit for the period was 4.3 billion rupees
on revenue of 16.7 billion rupees. In the fiscal year ended
March 31, the group reported net income of 16.7 billion rupees
on 84 billion rupees in revenue.  “Investors always look for consistent and strong growth
stories and Kotak Mahindra today has that,” said India
Infoline’s Kumar.  Foreign banks have cut jobs in commercial and investment
banking in India amid global firings this year.  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
based in  London , will eliminate 200 retail-banking positions in
India as it winds down consumer lending, a person with knowledge
of the matter said on Dec. 8. Three of Tokyo-based  Nomura
Holdings Inc. (8604) ’s most senior executives in India left amid job
reductions in Asia and  Europe , three people familiar with the
matter said Nov. 16.  Competitors Scale Down  Kotak Mahindra won’t follow suit, its founder said. The
lender expects to get a “larger share of this pie in due
course” as competitors scale down and the banking industry
improves over the next 12 to 18 months, Kotak said. He estimates
that his investment bank, which employs 82 people working on
mergers and selling shares, will revive next year if India
starts lowering  interest rates , as analysts have forecast.  “As the interest-rate cycle turns downward in India, which
I think happens sometime post-April 2012, we would love to see
both the engines fire -- the banking engine and the capital-
markets engine -- sometime in the second half of next year,”
Kotak said.  Credit will expand about 17 percent this fiscal year, which
ends in March 2012, Kotak said. India’s economy will return to
long-term economic growth of 9 percent, from 7.5 percent for the
year ended March 31, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said in a
Dec. 14 interview in New Delhi with Bloomberg News.  Farms, Home Loans  Kotak Mahindra’s commercial-banking business has been
helped by an avoidance of loans to airlines and infrastructure
projects and a concentration on expanding collateral-backed
loans for farms, home mortgages and vehicles, Kotak said.  “We’ve stepped on the gas in terms of agricultural lending
against agricultural commodities, against tractors, against
commercial vehicles,” he said. “The real backbone to the
Indian economy is middle India.”  Kotak said that because of the bank’s loan mix, it can
expand at 1.5 to 2 times India’s 15 percent nominal growth rate,
which is the GDP growth rate plus the rate of inflation.  The group’s net interest margin, a measure of its lending
profitability, shrank to 4.8 percent for the quarter that ended
in September, from 5.2 percent a year earlier. Kotak Mahindra
still has the highest net interest margin among Indian lenders
compared with 4.1 percent for  HDFC Bank Ltd. (HDFCB) , 3.7 percent for
the nation’s largest lender,  State Bank of India , and 2.6
percent for  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC)   The bank has a relatively small savings deposit base
compared with its rivals, according to KBW’s Hunsaker.  “They are certainly disadvantaged on the funding side,”
Hunsaker said. “That is something they could improve upon
longer term.”  Cricket Accident  Kotak, who has a master’s degree in business administration
from  Jamnalal Bajaj Institute of Management Studies  in Mumbai,
played cricket in his youth before he got hit in the head with a
ball in 1979 and almost died, saved only by emergency surgery,
he said.  “It got me a perspective on life,” he said. “I learned
to do what you think is right, and be bold about it.”  Unlike many family-owned enterprises in India, Kotak
Mahindra has avoided employing family members.  “My view is you need to think professionally,” said
Kotak, who has two sons of university age.  Professional Management  Mahindra, for his part, lauds his partner for his
professional management practices.  “He definitely knows how to build consensus,” Mahindra
said. “People see Kotak Mahindra as a one-man show. It’s
anything but. His core senior team has all stuck around because
of the climate of challenge and empowerment.”  Kotak is unlike many billionaires in Asia “who would never
stoop so low as to take an analyst’s call,” said Hunsaker.
“He’s out there meeting with analysts, investors, policy
makers, making himself accessible.”  Kotak criticizes the practice of offering loans to fund
acquisitions to win investment-banking business.  “There’s a fundamental conflict between good advice and
writing a check,” he said. “An advisory league table is about
what value has been added by a banker, and you don’t mix it with
finance.”  Rivals including London-based  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  say
they plan to increase takeover financing in India as they seek
to gain ground in mergers advisory.  “We run advisory as an integrated piece,” Neeraj Swaroop,
Standard Chartered’s outgoing chief executive officer for India
and South Asia, said in an interview Dec. 13. “If we have to
give balance sheet and we are comfortable with the client, we
will put out our balance sheet.”  Looking to Expand  In mergers-and-acquisitions advisory, Kotak Mahindra is
ranked No. 21 this year, while Standard Chartered, which funded
deals including Aditya Birla Group’s $875 million purchase of
Columbian Chemicals Co. in January, is No. 3, according to
Bloomberg data.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  is No. 1.  As investment-banking revenue slows amid the European
sovereign-debt crisis and banks face tougher capital
requirements from regulators, financial companies have announced
230,000 job cuts globally this year, eclipsing 174,000 in 2009,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Still, Kotak Mahindra is looking to expand in Sri Lanka,
Indonesia, Bangladesh and Malaysia, Kotak said.  “There are a lot of countries in Asia that are not
necessarily the most fashionable but make the most business
sense,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  