-- Investors in ‘Fetal Position’ as Goldman Sees Rally: Commodities
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2011-12-19T22:15:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/investors-in-fetal-position-cut-bets-as-goldman-sees-rally-commodities.html
Speculators reduced bets on
commodities to a 31-month low on mounting concern that global
economic growth is slowing as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
Barclays Capital reiterated predictions that prices will gain.  Money managers  cut  combined net-long positions across 18
U.S. futures and options by 9.6 percent to 532,521 contracts in
the week ended Dec. 13, Commodity Futures Trading Commission
data show. That’s the lowest since April 28, 2009. Wagers on
gold dropped to an eight-week low and coffee holdings tumbled 60
percent, the most since August.  Funds are less bullish after Moody’s Investors Service said
it is reviewing Europe’s ratings and the  International Monetary
Fund  said the region’s fiscal crisis is “escalating.” Europe
accounts for 19 percent of global copper demand and consumes
about one in six barrels of the world’s oil. Manufacturing in
China, the biggest buyer of everything from nickel to soybeans,
may contract for a second month, a private survey showed.  “For most people, the fetal position is quickly becoming
their portfolio position,” said  John Stephenson , who helps
manage $2.6 billion of assets at First Asset Investment
Management Inc. in Toronto. “It could get a lot uglier.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities dropped
4.5 percent last week, the most since mid-September, led by
industrial and precious metals. The gauge gained 0.3 percent to
settle at 619.5 in New York. The MSCI All-Country World Index
fell 3.4 percent last week as more than $1.7 trillion was wiped
off the value of global equities. The U.S. Dollar Index, a
measure against six trading partners, climbed 2.1 percent. The
yield on 10-year Treasuries dropped 21 basis points, or 0.2
percentage point, to 1.85 percent, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices.  Avoid a Recession  Goldman Sachs said in a report Dec. 1 that the world is
likely to avoid a recession and maintained its “overweight”
allocation to commodities, predicting a 15 percent return in the
next 12 months. That is still the bank’s view, Sophie Bullock, a
London-based spokeswoman for Goldman, said in an e-mail response
to questions on Dec. 15.  “We are cautiously positive on commodities, and that view
hasn’t changed,” said  Sudakshina Unnikrishnan , an analyst at
 Barclays Capital  in  London . A close balance between supply and
demand across raw materials “could drive a strong price rebound
in early 2012,” the bank said in a report this month.  Bear Market  Outlook  The S&P GSCI gauge tumbled 19 percent since reaching a 32-
month high in April. Cooling expansion in  emerging markets  will
spur further declines for raw materials, according to Michael Aronstein, the investor who said in early May that commodities
were entering a multiyear bear market.  “People are just coming around to the understanding that
things in the developing world are in a fairly serious
retreat,” said Aronstein, the president of Marketfield Asset
Management in New York, who correctly predicted the 2008 slump
that drove the S&P GSCI down 66 percent in seven months.  Chinese factory output may decline for a second month in
December as  Europe ’s debt crisis weighs on exports and home
sales slide, preliminary results from a Markit Economics survey
indicated on Dec. 15. In the euro area, manufacturing may
contract for a fifth consecutive month, a separate report from
London-based Markit Economics showed.  Options traders are paying the most since August 2010 to
protect against losses in Chinese stocks. The Asian nation’s
gross domestic product will grow by 8.5 percent in 2012, down
from 9.2 percent this year and 10.4 percent in 2010, according
to the median estimate of 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Economic Growth  The euro dropped below $1.30 last week for the first time
since January on signs of rising funding stress in the region.
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said there is no easy solution
to the crisis after rejecting an increase in the upper limit of
funding for a permanent bailout program.  “The macro outlook remains poor heading into 2012 with
risks skewed to the downside,” Morgan Stanley commodity
analysts led by New York-based Hussein Allidina said in a report
Dec. 16. “We are in the early stages of a multiyear
deleveraging and de-globalization cycle.”  A crunch in financing for commodity trading, spurred by
“aggressive, sustained European bank deleveraging,” may send
raw-material prices plunging next year, Deutsche Bank AG said in
a report Dec. 5.  Commodity Funds  Investors put $156 million into commodity funds in the week
ended Dec. 14, according to data from EPFR Global, which tracks
investment flows. Gold and precious metal net inflows were $738
million, while non-precious metal commodities had a net outflow
of $582 million, said  Cameron Brandt , the director of research
at the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research company.  Funds trimmed their net-long position in gold by 11 percent
to 135,117 contracts, the lowest since Oct. 18, the CFTC data
show. Holdings have dropped in three of the past four weeks.  Gold futures in  New York  slumped 6.9 percent last week, the
most since Sept. 23, as a strengthening dollar curbed demand for
precious metals as a haven. Bullion is headed for its first
quarterly decline in more than three years.  Traders are the least  bullish  on gold since July. Ten of 21
surveyed by Bloomberg expect the metal to gain this week, the
lowest proportion since July 29.  A measure of 11 U.S. farm goods  showed  speculators lowered
bullish bets in agricultural commodities by 15 percent to
219,989 contracts, the lowest since March 2009. Investors
boosted their bearish cocoa bets by 50 percent, and increased
their net-short position in wheat by 11 percent, CFTC data show.  “We have the perfect storm at several levels, with the
European situation and slowing in  China ,” said Shonda Warner,
the managing partner of Chess Ag Full Harvest Partners in
Clarksdale,  Mississippi , which oversees about $50 million of
assets. “Emerging markets have been the engine of growth, and
when they’re slowing, it’s really going to freak people out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  