-- James Bond Shaken as Gin Seeks to Reclaim Its Place in Martini
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2011-12-19T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/james-bond-shaken-as-gin-seeks-to-reclaim-place-in-martini-john-mariani.html
Ever since  James Bond  ordered a
martini, “shaken and not stirred,” made with vodka, in Ian
Fleming’s 1958 novel “Dr. No,” gin’s popularity began to sink.  While vodka has cannily capitalized on the youth market,
gin, the other white liquor, hasn’t been a hot category for
decades. Gin sales have been soaring in  China ,  India  and  Russia ,
but in the top markets like the  Philippines , the U.S. and Spain
shipments have dropped or remained flat, except for premium
imports.  Of course, purists would never dream of making a martini
with anything but gin, whose dryness is the subject of countless
jokes, as in the instructions to “have a bartender just glance
at the vermouth bottle” before pouring the gin into a shaker. A
few other classic cocktails demand gin, the Gibson, the gimlet,
the negroni, the French 75, and the Singapore sling, but none
has the cachet of newer cocktails like the saketini or
Cosmopolitan.  Three hundred years ago, gin was all the rage. Originally
created by Dutch physician Franciscus Sylvius, gin was used to
treat everything from gallstones to bubonic plague. Cheap to
produce, gin became the drink of the poor, with 7,500 gin shops
in 18th-century  London , whose squalor and dissipation were
depicted in Hogarth’s “Gin Lane” engravings.  One innkeeper of the day advertized “Drunk for a penny,
Dead drunk for twopence, Clean straw for nothing!” During
Prohibition in America “bathtub gin” could literally be made
by anyone with access to neutral spirits.  Leaving London  Gin’s name derives from “genever,” the Dutch name for a
spirit that uses juniper as its principal flavoring. Gin is just
one of many genevers, which may have many different flavorings.
The minimum alcohol level required by the European Union is 37.5
percent. In the U.S. it is 40. The two main types are Hollands
and London. The term “London” once connoted a gin made in or
near London, but is now a general term.  For a full immersion course in gin-ology, visit the  House
of Bols  Cocktail & Genever Experience in Amsterdam, just across
from the city’s Van Gogh Museum. During a self-guided tour
you’ll learn the history of the Genever Co., founded by Lucas
Bols in 1575, and pass through a gorgeously lighted Hall of
Taste where you can touch and smell the ingredients that go into
genever, and sniff from 36 “puffers” of flavorings from
strawberry to white mint, coffee to peach.  The tour ends at a bar/lounge called the World of
Cocktails, where they’ll make you any of hundreds of cocktails
made from scores of Bols genevers. There’s even a Ladies Night
special discount, and you can sign up for the Bols Bartending
Academy to become a registered bartender.  Headbutt Chaser  You will also learn the proper way to drink genevers, which
involves leaning over to take a sip from a full shot glass on
the table without picking it up. And if you follow a beer with a
chaser of genever, it’s called a kopstoot (headbutt) in
Flanders.  Bols sells its products worldwide, but while new vodkas --
from improbable places -- seem to appear in the market every
month, few producers anywhere seem to be making new gins. So I
thought a tasting of well-established gins was an easy way to
tackle what’s out there.  Professionals usually taste whiskies cut with a little
water, but who would ever drink gin with water? I tried them
straight.  Beefeater  London Dry Gin ($20)  Beefeater is a true London gin, “distilled in the heart of
the city,” at a high 47 percent alcohol, so it’s very lush.
When I poured a little from the bottle, its aroma of juniper,
Seville oranges and lemon bounded out of the glass. Very
aromatic, Beefeater is complex and wonderful on the rocks, but
also good for a Gibson, a martini garnished with cocktail
onions.  Gordon’s  London Dry Gin ($17)  Gordon’s is based on a 1769 formula, with an “By
Appointment by Her Majesty the Queen.” The weak nose is a
little sharp and it’s a fairly bland, minty gin that would do
well as a mixer with tonic or in a negroni.  Seagram’s  Extra Dry ($14)  “Extra Dry” means little since all gins are distilled
dry. This has a light aroma of citrus, that floats over the
palate, with a distinctly American taste -- punchy, with not too
much alcohol (40 percent), fruity and fleshy. At $14 you can see
why it’s such a big seller in the U.S. My father, a smart man,
always used to have bottles of Seagrams and Gilbey’s in the
liquor cabinet. He’d use the Gilbey’s for those who asked for
gin on the rocks or with tonic, the Seagrams to make a perfect
martini. He was right.  Bombay Sapphire  East ($25)  Worth every penny, with 42 percent alcohol, this U.K.
product is a stylish gin rife with aromatics, many stenciled on
the bottle, like Thai lemongrass and Vietnamese black
peppercorns. They make it unusual and somewhat exotic, the kind
of gin you might have expected in a Singapore sling at the Long
Bar in Raffles Hotel, before heading out to tend your rubber
plantation.  Tanqueray  Special Dry English Gin ($25)  For many gin lovers this is the apex of London gins, highly
refined, bursting with aromatics and tropical fruit, all
balanced with spice notes that linger on the palate. It’s almost
creamy and is best enjoyed on its own or in the very driest
martini a bartender can make, with a lemon peel, not an olive.  ( John Mariani  writes on wine for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 