-- Japan M&A, Bank Examiner ‘Secrets,’ Dark Pools: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2011-12-19T13:21:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/japan-m-a-rules-bank-examiner-secrets-dark-pools-compliance.html
Japan ’s Financial Services Agency is
seeking tougher rules governing the disclosure of information on
takeovers to avoid a repeat of the  Olympus Corp. (7733)  accounting
scandal, said  Shozaburo Jimi , head of the regulator.  The agency is studying amendments to securities law and
will work with the nation’s stock exchanges to require companies
to disclose more data on mergers and acquisitions, Financial
Services Minister Jimi said at a news briefing in  Tokyo  Dec. 16.  Officials are trying to improve corporate governance in
Japan after Olympus admitted to a 13-year cover-up of investment
losses. Tokyo-based Olympus, the world’s biggest maker of
endoscopes, inflated fees for advisers and overpaid for
companies it bought with the intention of hiding losses.  The FSA will also consider measures to “correct and
prevent” collaboration by money brokers in cover-ups, as well
as improve auditing procedures, he said.  Former Olympus Chief Executive Officer  Michael Woodford ,
the whistle-blower who questioned fees paid by the camera maker,
was fired as president and CEO in October after he confronted
the company’s board about oversized payments made to advisers in
the acquisition of Gyrus Group Plc in 2008.  Compliance Policy  Bank Examiners Make Secret Suggestions During Reviews  At least 1,400 times last year, federal examiners told a
bank to fix a problem that could imperil its health, according
to data from the three agencies that regulate banks. The
agencies didn’t reveal the names of the troubled banks or the
nature and severity of their concerns. That information is kept
from investors, customers and the public unless securities laws
force the bank itself to disclose.  Such secrecy is needed to prevent panic that might result
in bank runs or investor sell-offs, making problems far worse,
said representatives of the  Federal Reserve , the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp., all of which regulate banks and financial institutions.  Informal regulatory approaches, such as suggestions made by
bank examiners to compliance officers, also mean the public
can’t see when regulators do a poor job, said  Viral Acharya , an
author of several books on financial regulation who teaches at
New York University’s Stern School of Business. He added that
the regulators “should be accountable.”  Examiners weren’t always as tough as they needed to be from
2006 through the third quarter of 2010, according to a  June
report  by the Government Accountability Office, an investigative
arm of Congress.  For more, click here.  France  Urges Tougher Rules on High-Frequency Trades, Dark Pools  France’s financial market regulator urged the European
Union to toughen its planned overhaul of rules, highlighting the
need for more oversight of high-frequency trading and new
trading platforms.  Thierry Francq, secretary general of the Autorite des
Marches Financiers, said at the regulator’s Paris headquarters
Dec. 16 that proposals presented in October by the EU are
“insufficient” in ways that “could have grave consequences.”  “It’s absolutely essential that we move towards a system
of centralized surveillance of orders and transactions on the
markets,” the AMF said in a statement of its priorities for the
overhaul, seeking a “more ambitious” plan for markets
oversight.  High-frequency traders came under increased regulatory
scrutiny following the so-called flash crash in May of last
year, during which the Dow Jones Industrial Average briefly lost
almost 1,000 points. The  European Securities and Markets
Authority  needs to have greater control of the high-frequency
trading fees structure, according to Francq.  Chilton Says Brokers Should Put Client Funds Only in U.S. Debt  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission should ban
derivatives brokers from investing client funds in anything
other than U.S. debt, commissioner  Bart Chilton  said.  Chilton said recent changes in regulations governing client
funds, approved after  MF Global Holdings Ltd.  filed for
bankruptcy, don’t provide enough protection for clients.  Steps need to be taken to put “confidence and trust back
into our U.S. derivatives markets,” Chilton, a Democrat, said
in a statement.  MF Global filed for bankruptcy on Oct. 31. James W.
Giddens, the trustee overseeing the liquidation of the company’s
brokerage, has estimated that as much as $1.2 billion in client
funds may be missing.  Traders Buying EIB CO2 May Have Privileged Data, IETA Says  Companies buying 2013 European Union carbon permits
directly from the European Investment Bank may have
“privileged” information that other traders don’t have,
according to an emissions-trading lobby group.  The lack of public information about the commencement of
the sales means that “if you are a recipient of a large volume
you are in a privileged position,” said Simone Ruiz, Brussels-
based European policy director at the  International Emissions
Trading Association . She spoke by telephone Dec. 16.  The EIB may have last week begun selling privately the
first tranche of 200 million EU permits for the third phase of
the EU’s emissions trading system, which begins in 2013, to fund
renewable energy and carbon capture projects as part of the EU’s
drive toward a low-carbon economy. The permits are worth as much
as 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion).  Nick Antonovics, a spokesman for the Luxembourg-based EIB,
declined to comment on criticism of the sales process when
reached Dec. 16 by phone and e-mail.  IETA is continuing internal discussions on precisely what
information and changes it will seek from the commission and the
EIB, Ruiz said.  U.K. Watchdog Softens Mortgage Rules for Existing Borrowers  Banks won’t have to apply tougher mortgage rules to
existing customers after the U.K. financial watchdog softened
proposals designed to rein in risky lending practices.  Lenders may “waive some of the proposed affordability
requirements for existing borrowers,” the U.K.  Financial
Services Authority  said in a review of mortgage regulations
published yesterday. The FSA is seeking views on the rules,
which would ban issuance of any new self-certified mortgages.  The FSA has proposed plans to rein in the U.K.’s 1.2
trillion-pound ($1.87 trillion) mortgage market, blaming some
lending practices for exacerbating the banking crisis that
followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.
The watchdog is seeking views on the proposals for the  seventh
time  since the review began in 2009.  The regulations require lenders to assess the impact of
rising interest rates in their mortgage-approval calculations
and ban interest-only mortgages in cases where the borrower
would have to rely on rising house prices to repay the loan.  The deadline for input runs until Mar. 30, 2012, and the
FSA is due to release the final version of the rules later next
year. The full set of reforms is to be implemented in 2013.  Industry Groups Publish Derivatives-Collateral Discussion Paper  A group of financial-market industry bodies published a
paper discussing European governments’ derivatives collateral
practices and capital rules.  The  Association for Financial Markets in Europe , the
 International Capital Market Association  and the International
Swaps & Derivatives Association said in a statement today that
they published the paper, entitled “The Impact of Derivative
Collateral Policies of European Sovereigns and Resulting Basel
III Capital Issues.”  The paper surveys the credit exposure of dealers arising
out of over the counter derivatives contracts. The matter is of
concern because the “majority of sovereigns do not post
collateral to support their use of over-the-counter”
derivatives,’’ the groups said in the  paper .  Derivatives exposure of dealers “may total as much as $70
billion,” according to the groups.  Compliance Action  MF Global U.K. Administrator Says It Knows Where Money Is  MF Global Holdings Ltd. ’s U.K. administrator says it found
all of the British unit’s client funds and collected 82 percent
of the assets.  Richard Heis, a KPMG LLP partner working on the
administration, said the firm is trying to recover the remaining
customer assets, some of which were held by the failed broker’s
parent company in the U.S.  Trustees for the U.S. bankruptcy of MF Global Holdings have
estimated that as much as $1.2 billion is missing from customer
assets. Jon S. Corzine, former chairman and chief executive
officer of MF Global, apologized to clients and investors for
the misuse of funds in a hearing before U.S lawmakers Dec. 15.  The allegation in the U.S. “is that nobody knows where the
money is,” Heis said in a phone interview Dec. 16. “We know
exactly where the money is.”  The parent company, based in New York, was the fifth-
largest financial company to file for bankruptcy when it sought
protection on Oct. 31 after placing losing bets on European
sovereign debt.  KPMG was appointed to supervise the special administration
of the broker’s  London  unit, in the first use of a U.K. program
designed to quickly unwind failed financial firms.  For more, click here.  FDIC Races Chubb to Silverton in Clash Over Failed-Bank Costs  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and insurer  Chubb Corp. (CB) 
are clashing over a Georgia bank failure as the U.S. seeks to
recover costs of shutting the lender.  Silverton Bank NA was seized on May 1, 2009. That same day,
Chubb sent a message to an insurance agent who worked with the
bank, limiting a policy that covered its directors and officers
against lawsuits, according to a government complaint filed in
August. The insurer has used the amendment to deny a payout as
the FDIC seeks at least $71 million from the Atlanta-based
bank’s former board members and executives.  The FDIC’s push to recover funds from former leaders of
failed banks is sparking more confrontations with insurers that
sold directors-and-officers, or D&O, protection. The regulator
said it won approval to pursue claims for more than $5 billion
in damages this year, double the amount authorized through 2010.  Seventeen of the  41 suits authorized  by the FDIC’s board
had been filed as of Dec. 8. It takes about 18 months to study
the failures and determine if legal action is appropriate and
cost-effective, said Richard Osterman, FDIC deputy general
counsel. The regulator will decide in coming months which
additional cases to pursue as it reviews some of the more than
400 failures since 2007, he said.  For more, click here.  U.K. Regulator Fines Individuals a Record $20 Million in 2011  The U.K.  Financial Services Authority  issued a record 12.9
million pounds ($20 million) in fines to individuals in 2011, an
increase of 47 percent from last year.  The watchdog fined both firms and individuals a total of
65.5 million pounds this year, less than the 88.4 million levied
last year, according to research by law firm  Reynolds Porter
Chamberlain LLP . The figures differ from the FSA’s own table of
fines on its  website , which lists 63.4 million pounds in fines.  The watchdog fined Jaspreet Ahuja, a former client adviser
at UBS AG’s wealth-management unit in London, 150,000 pounds on
Dec. 16 for helping a client break Indian law through an
offshore fund. HSBC Holdings Plc received the biggest single
fine in 2011 and must pay 10.5 million pounds for abusive sales
of investment products to elderly customers.  The 2010 figures were boosted by the FSA’s largest ever
fine.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s London unit paid out a record 33.3
million pounds in June for not properly separating client money
from the firm’s accounts.  Brussels Airlines, TAP Raided by EU Over Possible Collusion  Brussels Airlines NV and Portuguese carrier  TAP SGPS SA 
were raided by European Union antitrust regulators last week as
part of an investigation into the airlines’ cooperation
agreements.  The  European Commission   said  the Dec. 13 raids were
triggered by suspicions of “illegal collusion” between the
airlines, expanding an initial probe started in February that
focused on agreements for the sale of seats on flights between
Belgium and Portugal.  EU regulators are concerned “that the agreements may go
further than the sale of seats on routes where the two companies
are expected to compete, itself already a departure from the
more common form of code-sharing in the industry,” the
commission said in a statement on its website.  The expanded probe may complicate Portugal’s efforts to
sell state-owned TAP and comply with the conditions of a 78
billion-euro ($101 billion) bailout from the EU and the
 International Monetary Fund .  Deutsche Lufthansa AG ,  Europe ’s
second-largest airline, owns 45 percent of closely held Brussels
Airlines and the German carrier has an option to increase its
stake.  The Brussels-based antitrust authority can impose fines of
as much as 10 percent of yearly sales if it finds evidence of
anticompetitive agreements between companies.  Courts  Ex- Freddie Mac ,  Fannie Mae  CEOs Sued for Understating Loans  Daniel Mudd , the former chief executive officer of Fannie
Mae, and  Richard Syron , ex-CEO of Freddie Mac, were sued by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for understating by
hundreds of billions of dollars the subprime loans held by the
firms.  The lawsuits filed Dec. 16 in Manhattan federal court were
followed by an SEC statement that it had entered into non-
prosecution agreements with each company. Fannie Mae, the
government-sponsored enterprise which issues almost half of all
mortgage-backed securities, and Freddie Mac, the McLean,
Virginia-based mortgage-finance company, had “agreed to accept
responsibility” for their conduct, the SEC said.  In the lawsuits, the SEC said Syron, Mudd and other
executives understated exposure to subprime mortgage loans. From
2007 to 2008, Freddie Mac executives said the company’s exposure
was between $2 billion and $6 billion when it was actually as
high as $244 billion, according to one SEC complaint.  Washington-based Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were seized and
placed under U.S. control in 2008 as losses on soured loans
pushed them to the brink of insolvency.  Mudd, now CEO of Fortress Investment Group LLC, was ousted
when Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were seized by regulators in
September 2008. In a statement Dec. 16, he said the federal
government and investors were aware of “every piece of material
data about loans held by Fannie Mae” and noted that the
government reviewed and approved the company’s disclosures
during his tenure.  Tom Green, Syron’s attorney at Sidley Austin LLP in
 Washington , didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on
the lawsuit.  The cases are SEC v. Syron, 11-cv-09201, and SEC v. Mudd,
11-cv-09202, U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
 New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  Burns Calls Corzine’s Testimony ‘Theater of Absurd’  Douglas Burns, a former federal prosecutor, talks about the
congressional testimony of former MF Global Holdings Ltd. Chief
Executive Officer Jon S. Corzine.  Burns speaks with Scarlet Fu and Stephanie Rule on
Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack.”  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 