-- Japanese Stocks Extend Losses on Death of N. Korean Dictator Kim Jong Il
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2011-12-19T06:25:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/japanese-stocks-decline-after-fitch-warns-europe-of-possible-downgrades.html
Japanese  stocks  extended losses on a
report North Korean dictator  Kim Jong Il  has died, damping
demand for riskier assets as concern for East Asian stability
grows.  Sony Corp. (6758) , Japan’s No. 1 exporter of consumer electronics,
dropped 3 percent along with  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , its South
Korean rival.  Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd. (9107) , which generates a
quarter of its revenue in  Asia , led declines among shipping
lines.  Olympus Corp. (7733)  fell 8.9 percent as a report said
prosecutors are seeking evidence the scandal-hit camera maker
falsified financial reports. Japan Material Co., a producer of
chip-making equipment, slid on its first trading day.  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  dropped 1.3 percent to
8,296.12 as of the 3 p.m. trading close in Tokyo after falling
1.6 percent last week. The broader Topix index lost 1 percent to
716.38 with all but two of 33 industry groups on the gauge
sliding as the Japanese government canceled a meeting to discuss
the nation’s monthly economic assessment.  “You can’t take a risk because this incident could affect
the balance of economic tensions that already exist in East Asia
including  Japan ,  China  and  South Korea ,” said  Ayako Sera , a
market strategist in Tokyo at Sumitomo Trust &　Banking Co.,
which manages the equivalent of $298 billion. “Rising
geopolitical risks are causing people to buy the dollar and sell
 stocks (TPX) ” in search of safety.  Security Meeting  Japanese cabinet officials are attending a security meeting
after North Korean state television reported that Kim, 70, died
on Dec. 17 of exhaustion brought on by a sudden illness on a
domestic train trip. A government statement called on North
Koreans to “loyally follow” his son Kim Jong Un. The nation
has long threatened the stability of the region, and was blamed
for the March 2010 sinking of a South Korean naval vessel and
shelled its neighbor’s island last year.  Futures on the Nikkei 225 expiring in March fell as much as
1.7 percent shortly after the report of Kim’s death before
trimming the loss to 1.2 percent to 8,300 in Osaka. The dollar,
the world’s reserve currency, rose against 15 of its 16 major
counterparts including the yen as investors sought security.  “A sell-off in futures won’t last long because it’s not
that tensions are mounting between North and South Korea,” said
Yutaka Miura, a senior technical analyst at Mizuho Securities Co.
“Japanese stocks continue to move along with developments in
the U.S. and  Europe .”  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  fell 0.7 percent
today. The index rose 0.3 percent in  New York  on Dec. 16 even
after  Fitch Ratings  put credit ratings for  France , Belgium,
 Spain , Slovenia,  Italy , Ireland and Cyprus under review for a
downgrade, saying a “comprehensive” solution to Europe’s
crisis is “technically and politically beyond reach.”  Finance Heads Meet  Finance ministers in the euro region will hold a conference
call at 3:30 p.m. Brussels time today to meet a self-imposed
deadline to channel additional bailout funds and put together
new budget rules to stem the debt crisis and buoy investor
confidence.  “Time is running out for policy makers to execute what
they decided to do,” said  Yoshinori Nagano , a senior strategist
in Tokyo at Daiwa Asset Management Co., which oversees about
$120 billion. “It’s not that something big will happen and
change the whole market sentiment. It rather depends on the
accumulation of small steps.”  Exporters fell, with consumer electronics makers
contributing the most to the Topix index’s decline. Sony dropped
3 percent to 1,319 yen.  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  fell 5 percent to 649
yen.  Nintendo Co. , a video-game company that gets 34 percent of
its sales in Europe, slid 3.1 percent to 10,590 yen.  Shippers Lead Decline  Shipping lines fell the most among the 33 industry groups
in the Topix index. Kawasaki Kisen, Japan’s third-biggest
shipping line by sales, fell 5.7 percent to 132 yen.  Nippon
Yusen K.K. (9101) , the largest, fell 4.6 percent to 187 yen.  Mitsui
O.S.K. Lines Ltd. (9104) , ranked second, slid 5.2 percent to 272 yen.  Europe’s debt crisis, now in its third year, has diminished
the earnings outlook for Japan’s exporters. The Topix index has
fallen 20 percent this year, compared with a 21 percent drop in
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Disasters Drag Stocks  Japanese stocks also have been hurt this year by the
earthquake and resulting nuclear disaster as well as Thailand’s
floods, which hurt output at exporters such as Toyota Motor Corp.
and Sony.  Tokyo  Electric Power Co., the utility at the center of the
worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl, has fallen 88 percent to
become the biggest decliner on the  Topix index . SxL Corp. a
homebuilder that benefited from reconstruction projects after
the nation’s biggest earthquake on record, has jumped 258
percent as the best performer.  Olympus dropped 8.9 percent to 915 yen after Kyodo News
reported Dec. 17 that Tokyo prosecutors are seeking evidence of
falsified financial reports, citing people involved in the probe.
The company has admitted to hiding losses.  Japan Material debuted at 2,447 yen, down from its initial
offering price of 2,650 yen. The shares started trading today on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange and the Nagoya Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 