-- ‘Intensely Private’ Handler Lifts Veil in Defense of Jefferies
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2011-12-19T05:02:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/jefferies-s-intensely-private-handler-lifts-firm-s-veil-to-defend-legacy.html
Richard Handler  was 38 when he made
his pitch: Put him in charge of  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  and he
would transform the Wall Street equity-trading shop into a full-
scale investment bank.  Since Handler, then a bond trader and salesman, persuaded
the board in 1999 to make him chief executive officer, Jefferies
has more than tripled its workforce and revenue, joining New
York’s top 10 mergers-and-acquisitions advisers. He’s vaulted
from highest-paid producer to biggest individual shareholder.  Now Handler is defending the company he built, seeking to
retain staff amid investor concern that Europe’s debt crisis and
the collapse of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MF)  will drive up financing
costs or lead to losses. Tomorrow, with its stock down 54
percent this year, Jefferies announces quarterly results. After
eschewing investor conferences and television interviews that
are routine for some Wall Street heads, Handler has spent the
past month revealing details about his firm’s books.  “He’s an intensely private guy,” said Joseph Schenk, who
served as Jefferies’s finance chief for eight years through
2007. “He’s responding to the fact that nobody was standing up,
and he was prepared to stand up.”  Handler, 50, is doing what executives at Bear Stearns Cos.
and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. refused to do, even when they
were on the brink of collapse in 2008. After Egan-Jones Ratings
Co. expressed concern that Jefferies may face losses linked to
sovereign debt, Handler described the firm’s holdings and hedges
in interviews and almost daily statements.  ‘Malicious Lies’  He published a breakdown of Jefferies’s sovereign bonds,
and days later sold half of those assets to prove they were
liquid. As market rumors persisted, the CEO compiled what he
called “malicious lies” in a Nov. 21 letter and gave a point-
by-point response. Jefferies has rallied 21 percent since.  “The two things I find noteworthy are the assertiveness
with which they’re pushing back at short sellers and the level
of detail in their deconstruction of their portfolio,” said
Eric Dezenhall, CEO of Washington-based Dezenhall Resources
Ltd., a crisis-management consulting firm. They’re “questioning
the crisis-management dogma.”  CEOs across  Europe  soon might grapple with similar
decisions as concern that nations including  Greece  may default
prompts investors to question the solvency of some bondholders.
With banks facing higher funding costs, European leaders are
pushing firms in their region to raise 114.7 billion euros ($149
billion) in capital to weather the turmoil.  ‘The Newlywed Game’  Yields on Jefferies’s debt remain elevated even after
paring their rise in the wake of MF Global’s Oct. 31 bankruptcy.
Jefferies’ $550 million of 6.875 percent notes due in April 2021
are at 90 cents on the dollar to yield 8.4 percent, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. The securities climbed from 75 cents on
Nov. 17, after a 25-cent drop in three weeks.  The yield is about the same level as that for junk-rated,
or speculative-grade, borrowers, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data.  As a young adult, Handler, known to some friends and
colleagues as “Richie,” appeared on television’s “The
Newlywed Game.” As a banker, he’s shunned the spotlight.  “It’s never been about me,” Handler said in a statement.
“It’s been about the 3,898 of us at Jefferies who worked as
hard as possible throughout November to get the truth out to
address misinformation, which can become a reality in dangerous
times. It’s been about all of us caring passionately about our
company and being keenly aware of the enormous responsibility we
have to our shareholders, bondholders and clients.”  In interviews with more than a dozen past and present
colleagues, Handler was described as being focused on work and
uninterested in public stature.  Alma Mater Donor  Had the  University of Rochester  allowed it, Handler would
have preferred to remain anonymous when he committed $25 million
to his alma mater, said Edmund Hajim, the school’s board
chairman.  Handler graduated in 1979 from Pascack Hills High School in
Montvale,  New Jersey , where he ran cross country, according to a
yearbook. He received a bachelor’s degree in economics from
Rochester in 1983 and a master’s in business administration from
 Stanford University  in  California  in 1987. Before graduate
school, Handler made cold calls to land an analyst job at First
Boston Corp. While in college he was a bicycle messenger in
Manhattan, making deliveries for Wall Street bankers.  Michael Milken   Handler was offered a job at New York-based Drexel Burnham
Lambert Inc.’s corporate finance department after graduate
school. He agreed to join the firm on the condition that he work
on the trading floor with Michael Milken, the junk-bond pioneer.  Peter Nolan, a former Drexel first vice president, said he
agreed, granting a rare opportunity for a recent graduate,
because Handler “thinks like a trader” and understood
corporate finance. At 28, Handler helped Milken craft high-yield
financing for KKR & Co.’s $31 billion buyout of RJR Nabisco
Inc., the largest of its time.  A year after the 1989 deal, Drexel filed for bankruptcy
amid a government probe. Milken pleaded guilty in 1990 to six
felony securities law violations and went to prison.  Handler joined Jefferies in  Los Angeles  as a salesman and
trader in 1990 and established its high-yield bond group.  Through his body language and tone of voice, “he never let
anybody for a second believe that he wasn’t in charge,” said
Christopher Allick, who worked with Handler at Drexel before
helping found and run Jefferies’s corporate-finance department.  Pitching Plans  Jefferies was still primarily an equities-trading shop in
the 1990s. Realizing that the model may not survive, the firm’s
executives developed a plan to build the company into a full-
service investment bank, adding advisory and research units,
said then-President Michael Klowden. Handler had been pitching
plans to diversify since he joined, according to a person
familiar with discussions at the time who declined to be
identified because the talks were private.  Frank E. Baxter, Handler’s predecessor who became
Jefferies’s CEO in 1987, was nearing retirement and the
transition wasn’t being implemented fast enough, Klowden said.
Having been named to the board in 1998, Handler made his move.
He teamed with John Shaw, national sales manager of equities
sales and trading, and offered a management plan to directors.  “We needed to be run by guys from the business,” said
Schenk, 52, in recalling the proposal. “We were young guys. We
had a fair amount of energy. We were open to just about anything
opportunistically.”  Handler and Shaw became co-presidents and Schenk finance
chief for Baxter in 2000. About a year later, Handler became CEO
and Baxter focused on being chairman. By 2002, Handler was both
CEO and chairman.  Handler’s ‘Belief’  “Rich is aggressive,” said Frank Macchiarola, a Jefferies
board member when Handler was promoted. “His belief was he
could build that company to be very successful financially and
ultimately be in a much stronger position.”  It was “very appealing to the board,” he said.  Jefferies moved its headquarters to  New York  from Los
Angeles in 2001, and Handler runs the firm from an 11th-floor
office at 520 Madison Ave. in a building that houses private-
equity firm Carlyle Group LP. His windows overlook the street
and the equity-trading floor.  In the early 2000s, Jefferies marketed itself in
presentations and press releases as catering to “middle-
market” clients. Handler has since changed that, pushing the
firm to compete with Wall Street’s largest investment banks.  UBS Lawsuit  He acquired entire teams to strengthen advisory and
research coverage and hired rainmakers from some of his biggest
competitors. In 2009, Jefferies lured Benjamin Lorello, 58, from
UBS AG to be global head of  investment banking  and  capital
markets . Zurich-based UBS filed and later withdrew a lawsuit
after 36 of its health-care bankers followed Lorello.  Since Handler took the helm, Jefferies’s balance sheet has
increased more than 10-fold to $45.1 billion. The firm’s net
revenue in fiscal 2010, an 11-month period, was more than triple
the figure for all of 2000.  Jefferies has given about $25 million to charity since
Handler became CEO, aiding victims of the 2010 Haiti earthquake,
 Hurricane Katrina  in 2005 and the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.  The board couldn’t pay Handler what he earned as head of
high-yield -- regulatory filings show he received a  $17.1
million  bonus for 1997 -- so he took a pay cut as CEO, said
Macchiarola, the former director.  Handler owns a bigger share of his company than the CEOs at
the biggest Wall Street banks, with a 6 percent stake that
dwarfs the 0.43 percent  Lloyd Blankfein  holds in Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and the 0.05 percent of Morgan Stanley’s  James Gorman , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Handler’s
shares are valued at about $149 million.  Retention Policy  Handler disclosed a retention policy to employees last
week, telling workers that the firm would claw back 2011 bonuses
from anyone who defects to competitors in the coming year.  Normally, such measures “don’t really work” because the
hiring firm reimburses the amount forfeited,  David Trone , an
analyst for JMP Securities LLC, wrote in a note to clients. Now,
with few Wall Street firms adding talent, “employees likely
have few alternatives.”  While “fragile market confidence” likely will continue
weighing on Jefferies’s stock price and bond spreads, the
company has amassed enough liquidity to weather debt-market
turmoil,  Fitch Ratings  said in a Dec. 6 report.  Public Spotlight  Even as Handler thrust himself into the public spotlight to
defend his firm, he keeps a low profile. The CEO, a fan of the
New York Giants football team, is rarely seen wearing a tie,
according to colleagues, and usually doesn’t present at investor
conferences. He and his wife, who have a daughter and three
sons, live in South Salem, New York, a hamlet about 50 miles
north of midtown  Manhattan , colleagues said.  Handler will have to continue being transparent to maintain
investor confidence, said Davia Temin, CEO of Temin & Co., a New
York-based crisis-consulting firm.  “They’ve gone out on a limb, they’ve got to stay the
course,” she said. He could “be known as somebody who fought a
fight that others have lost.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 