-- Jets-Giants Christmas Eve Matchup May Decide New York Teams’ Playoff Fates
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2011-12-19T05:13:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/jets-giants-christmas-eve-matchup-may-decide-new-york-teams-playoff-fates.html
New York’s Giants and Jets head into
their Christmas Eve matchup knowing that a loss may scuttle
their National Football League playoff chances.  “It’s going to be a war,” Jets coach  Rex Ryan  said after
his team’s 45-19 loss to the Philadelphia Eagles yesterday.
“Whoever loses is probably out. We’re both fighting for our
playoff lives.”  The Giants (7-7) are in danger of missing their third
straight postseason after losing to the Washington Redskins
23-10 for their fifth defeat in six games. With two games left
in the regular season, they trail the  Dallas Cowboys  (8-6) in
the National Football Conference East division.  The Jets had a three-game winning streak snapped with their
defeat in Philadelphia. With an 8-6 record, they’re tied with
the  Cincinnati Bengals  in the race for the American Football
Conference’s final wild card playoff berth, one game ahead of
the  Oakland Raiders ,  Tennessee Titans  and San Diego Chargers.  With the Atlanta Falcons and Detroit Lions both 9-5 and
holding two-game leads in the chase for the two wild card spots
in the NFC, the Giants’ playoff chances likely hinge on winning
the division title.  “Our backs are definitely against the wall now,” Giants
defensive end  Justin Tuck  told reporters after his team’s third
straight home defeat. The Jets game “is going to carry a lot of
intensity because both teams are playing for playoff spots.
There is going to be a lot of emotions flying.”  While the Giants and Jets play on Dec. 24 at MetLife
Stadium in East Rutherford,  New Jersey , the first-place Cowboys
host Philadelphia the same day before visiting the Giants in the
Jan. 1 regular-season finale.  Manning Interceptions  The Giants ended a four-game losing streak Dec. 11 by
winning 37-34 in  Dallas , yet fell behind 17-0 during the first
half yesterday against a Redskins team that had lost eight of
its previous nine games. Quarterback Eli Manning threw three
interceptions for the Giants, who failed to score a touchdown
until there were 33 seconds left.  “I expected to see quality execution and quite frankly we
didn’t get much of that,” Giants coach Tom Coughlin said at a
news conference. “We didn’t look like the team that played
Sunday night” against the Cowboys.  At 6-8, the Eagles also have an outside chance to capture
the NFC East title if they win their final two games while the
Giants lose to the Jets and then beat the Cowboys.  With the  New England Patriots  winning the AFC East title
yesterday, the Jets are targeting one of the AFC’s two wild card
spots for a postseason return.  Dolphins Finale  The Jets, after facing the Giants this week, end their
regular-season schedule against the 5-9  Miami Dolphins . The
Bengals’ final two games are against the Arizona Cardinals (7-7)
and Baltimore Ravens (10-4), who yesterday were guaranteed of at
least the AFC’s other wild card berth if they don’t beat the
Pittsburgh Steelers for the division title.  If they finish with the same record, the Jets hold a slight
tiebreaker advantage over the Bengals in the wild card race,
with a better record against common opponents. The Jets and
Bengals haven’t played one another and have the same record
against conference opponents.  “We have to win these next two games, period.” Ryan said.
“Then we can find out how far we can go.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  