-- South Korean Pension Fund Buys Stocks as Templeton Sees Value After Kim
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2011-12-20T06:34:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/kb-asset-templeton-see-buying-opportunity-in-bonds-stocks-on-kim-s-death.html
South Korea’s  National Pension
Service , the nation’s biggest investor, bought stocks yesterday
when the  Kospi index (KOSPI)  fell the most in more than five weeks
following the death of North Korean leader Kim Jong Il.  National Pension doesn’t see further steep declines in
equities, Kim Hee Seok, head of the fund’s investment-strategy
division, said by phone today. KB Asset Management Co., a unit
of South Korea’s second-largest financial services group, is
buying futures on the nation’s bonds, betting losses after Kim’s
death won’t last. Stocks may become attractive if they fall
further on geopolitical risk, according to Franklin Templeton
Investment Trust Management Co. in Seoul.  South Korean equities and bonds rallied today after
tumbling yesterday on concern a power struggle may erupt in the
communist North after Kim died on Dec. 17. A government
statement called on North Koreans to “loyally follow” his son
Kim Jong Un after saying the nation’s leader died from
exhaustion brought on by a sudden illness while on a domestic
train trip.  “While I think the chances of serious unrest in North
Korea are pretty slim, there could be small noises sporadically
during the succession process, which should present bargain-
hunting opportunities,” said Kim from the National Pension,
which is overseen by  South Korea ’s health ministry.  He declined to comment on what stocks the fund, which had
345 trillion won ($296 billion) in assets as of October, bought
yesterday.  The Kospi index, which sank 3.4 percent yesterday, gained
0.9 percent as of the close in Seoul today. The gauge trades at
9.8 times estimated profit, the third-lowest valuation among
primary indexes in  Asia  after Pakistan and  Vietnam , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a 12.4 multiple
for the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.  Discount Valuation  “South Korea has already been trading at a discount to
other peers in part because of geopolitical risks,” said Oh Sung Sik, chief investment officer for equities at  Franklin
Templeton  in Seoul, which manages about $4.7 billion. “If the
market extends losses only because of Kim Jong Il’s death, that
will present a buying opportunity and I would feel like adding
more.”  KB Asset purchased three- and 10-year bond futures
yesterday after prices on the debt slid to seven-week lows,
according to Moon Donghoon, who oversees 11 trillion won as the
company’s managing director of fixed-income.  “We don’t think Kim’s death will push South Korean markets
into chaos as it’s not as if the North will start a war against
the South,” KB Asset’s Moon said by phone yesterday.  Nuclear Weapons   South Korea pledged steps by the central bank if needed to
stabilize financial markets, and called in police officers for
emergency duty while keeping the alert level for the military.
Under Kim’s 17-year rule,  North Korea  built nuclear weapons
while about 2 million of its people died when famine struck in
the 1990s. The  United Nations  said in October North Korea won’t
be able to feed its own people for the foreseeable future.  The won strengthened 1.1 percent to 1,162.18 per dollar
today, after dropping 1.4 percent yesterday. The yield on South
Korea’s benchmark three-year bonds fell seven basis points to
3.38 percent, after climbing 12 basis points to 3.45 percent
yesterday, Korea Exchange prices show.  The Kospi 200 Volatility Index, which measures the
 volatility  of options tied to the Kospi 200 Index, fell 4.7
percent to 26.67. It jumped 10 percent yesterday, the most in
five weeks, to 27.98.  Bond Purchases  National Agricultural Cooperative Federation, South Korea’s
second-biggest bondholder, and Korea Life Insurance Co., the
nation’s second-largest life insurer, said they plan to add
 government bonds  after yields increased.  “When  Kim Jong Il ’s father,  Kim Il Sung , died, financial
markets came back to normal after a few days,” Kim Sun Je, vice
president of the separate account department at Korea Life in
Seoul, said by phone yesterday. “I plan to wait for a few days
and add bond holdings if 10-year yields rise to 4 percent.”  The Kospi fell 0.8 percent on July 11, 1994, the first
trading day after North Korea announced the elder Kim’s death.
The gauge advanced 18 percent in the next four months.  “Investors shouldn’t be too panicky,” Jeon Jeong Woo, a
 fund manager  at Seoul-based Samsung Asset Management Co., which
oversees the equivalent of about $90 billion as South Korea’s
biggest asset management company, said in an interview.
“History tells us that the impact of geopolitical risks on
markets was short-lived, and I believe this time will be
similar.”  ‘Smooth Succession’  Kim Jong Il’s death isn’t a “ratings trigger in itself,”
said  Andrew Colquhoun , Hong Kong-based head of Asia-Pacific
sovereigns for  Fitch Ratings , in an e-mailed statement.  Standard & Poor’s  sees no impact on South Korea’s ratings
provided there’s a “smooth succession,” said Kim Eng Tan, an
S&P analyst in  Singapore , in an interview.  “Investors in South Korean bonds are aware of North Korean
risks and have put money in regardless,” said Chung Bong Hyun,
who oversees 30 trillion won of assets as head of the capital
trading and investment department at National Agricultural in
 Seoul . “We know that the status of Kim Jong Il’s son, Kim Jong
Un, isn’t stable, but view market volatility as a profit-making
opportunity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  