-- South Korea Ready to Act in Markets as Kim Death Clouds Outlook for Growth
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2011-12-19T07:38:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/kim-death-adds-to-challenging-time-for-south-korea-as-exports-gains-slow.html
South Korea said it’s prepared to
intervene in markets as the death of North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il  clouded the outlook for an economy already faltering on
weak export demand.  The central bank will “closely monitor” developments and
stabilize markets if needed, Governor Kim Choong Soo said today
as the won and stocks tumbled. Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan
echoed those comments. Officials are holding an emergency
meeting at 4 p.m. local time in Seoul.  The threat to South Korean confidence from the risk of
instability in the North comes as  Europe ’s debt crisis pares
 export  demand and the government forecasts slower growth next
year. Kim’s death has increased the chance of the North Korean
regime collapsing, through a coup or a failed attempt to reform
the political and economic system, Royal Bank of  Scotland  Group
Plc said today.  The leadership change comes “at a challenging time for the
South, where the economy is already facing stiff external
headwinds,” said  Frederic Neumann , an analyst at HSBC Holdings
Plc in  Hong Kong .  Moody’s Investors Service said Kim’s death is unlikely to
change the “economic and financial fundamentals” of the South.
 Fitch Ratings  said the event was not a “ratings trigger in
itself.”  Shares Tumble  The won sank 1.6 percent to 1,177 per dollar as of 1:48
p.m. local time and the Kospi index of shares tumbled 3.3
percent. North Korea’s state media called for citizens to
“loyally follow” the dead dictator’s son, Kim Jong Un, who is at
the “forefront of the revolution.”  South Korea’s exports, equivalent to half of the economy,
may increase 7.4 percent next year, down from a 19.2 percent
gain this year, according to the  finance ministry .  Lee Sung Kwon, an economist at Shinhan Investment Corp. in
Seoul, said that  consumer confidence  may slide and any
instability in North Korea could be an extra reason for the
central bank to cut rates in January after leaving them on hold
for six straight months.  Risks for the South include military strikes. North Korea
shelled a South Korean island last year, killing four people. It
has denied an international report blaming Kim’s regime for the
torpedoing of a South Korean warship that killed 46 sailors.  ‘Living With Uncertainty’  Erik Lueth, a Hong Kong-based economist for Royal Bank of
Scotland, said some institutions may reduce their investments in
 South Korea  and markets may remain volatile “over the next week
or two.” At the same time, the nation’s citizens are used to
“living with uncertainty and occasional attacks’ and for that
reason the threat to confidence is limited, he said.  “Business confidence may be affected, especially when
external demand is quite weak already,” said  Frances Cheung , a
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong. At the same time
the impact may be “relatively short-lived” because the
leadership transition was planned and hence less risky than
otherwise, she said.  Gross domestic product growth will slow to 3.7 percent next
year from 3.8 percent this year and 6.2 percent last year, the
nation’s finance ministry says.  “Investors may lose some confidence in South Korean assets,
including bonds, but they will likely return unless North Korea
collapses suddenly,” said Kong Dong Rak, a fixed-income analyst
at Taurus Investment & Securities Co. in  Seoul .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  