-- North Korea’s ‘Dear Leader’ Dictator Kim Jong Il Dies; Son May Take Over
-- B y   B i l l   A u s t i n
-- 2011-12-19T04:36:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/kim-jong-il-north-korea-s-dear-leader-dictator-dead-at-70-yonhap-says.html
Kim Jong Il , the second-generation
North Korean dictator who defied global condemnation to build
nuclear weapons while his people starved, has died, state media
reported. A government statement called on North Koreans to
“loyally follow” his son, Kim Jong Un.  Kim, 70, died on Dec. 17 of a heart attack brought on by
mental and physical strain while on a domestic train trip, the 
official Korean Central News Agency said. Kim probably had a 
stroke in August 2008 and may have also contracted pancreatic 
cancer, according to South Korean news reports.  The son of Kim Il Sung,  North Korea ’s founder, Kim was a
chain-smoking recluse who ruled for 17 years after coming to
power in July 1994 and resisted opening up to the outside world
in order to protect his regime. The likely succession of his
little-known third son, Jong Un, threatens to trigger a
dangerous period for the Korean peninsula, where 1.7 million
troops from the two Koreas and the U.S. square off every day.  “Kim Jong Un’s taking complete control of the helm will
not take place for a while due to his youth and inexperienced
leadership,” said Yang Moo Jin, a professor at the University
of North Korean Studies in  Seoul . “The North will likely be
under the control of a governing body for about a year.”  A state television announcer wept as she read the news of
Kim’s death. Footage was aired of thousands of people in the
main square of the capital of Pyongyang chanting in unison and
waving Kimjongilia, a flower named after the deceased leader.  Jong Un, is at the “forefront of the revolution,” KCNA
said in its statement of the elder Kim’s death. While official
reports give Kim’s age as 69, Russian records indicate he was
born in Siberia in February 1941.  Won, Stocks Fall  South  Korea ’s won declined as much as 1.6 percent to a
two-month low of 1,177.15 per dollar and government bonds
dropped after the news. The Kospi index lost 4.2 percent to
1,762.34 as of 12:38 p.m. in Seoul.  Kim leaves behind an economy less than three percent the
size of  South Korea ’s and which has relied on economic handouts
since the 1990’s, when an estimated 2 million people died from
famine. The United Nations and the U.S. last year increased
economic sanctions imposed as a result of North Korea’s nuclear
weapons activities and attacks that killed 50 South Koreans.  Lampooned by foreign cartoonists and filmmakers for his
weight, his zippered jumpsuits, his aviator sunglasses and his
bouffant hairdo, Kim cut a more serious figure in his rare
dealings with world leaders outside the Communist bloc.  “If there’s no confrontation, there’s no significance to
weapons,” he told  Madeleine Albright , then U.S. secretary of
state, in a 2000 meeting in Pyongyang.  Nuclear Tests  Those words took on greater significance in 2009 as Kim
defied threats of  United Nations  sanctions to test a second
nuclear device and a ballistic missile, technically capable of
striking Tokyo.  The following year North Korea lashed out militarily,
prompting stern warnings from the U.S. and South Korea. An
international investigation blamed Kim’s regime for the March
2010 sinking of a South Korean naval vessel that killed 46
sailors. Eight months later North Korea shelled a South Korean
island, killing two soldiers and two civilians. The act
followed reports by an American scientist that the country had
made “stunning” advances to its  uranium-enrichment  program.  Japan  Security Meeting  Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s cabinet held a
security meeting after the announcement, while the U.S. issued
a statement saying the Obama administration is “closely
monitoring” the situation and is contact with South Korea and
Japan.  Last year, Kim also set in line his  succession plan . Kim
Jong Un, thought to be 28 or 29, was first mentioned in
official KCNA dispatches on Sept. 28, 2010, when his
appointments as general and vice chairman of the Central
Military Commission of the party were announced. Jong Un stood
at his father’s right side at a military parade the next month,
wearing a black suit with a mandarin collar similar to the
style worn by his grandfather, who founded the nation after
World War II.  His nuclear pursuit was an attempt to counter the
advantage in conventional weapons that South Korea was able to
build as its economy boomed. When North Korea tested its first
nuclear bomb, on Oct. 9, 2006, Kim enhanced his bargaining
position with the South and two other old enemies, the U.S. and
Japan.  Cult Personality  Kim was groomed to succeed his father for three decades,
taking power when the “Great Leader” died in July 1994 to an
outpouring of national grief. He extended a cult of personality
as the “Dear Leader” even as many of the nation’s 24 million
citizens lived on an average income of less than a dollar a day.  In the official version of Kim’s birth, a double rainbow
heralded his arrival on  Mount Paektu , revered as the birthplace
of the Korean people, at a secret guerrilla camp where his
father was leading the struggle against Japanese colonial rule
during World War II.  Foreign historians say instead that by then the elder Kim
was in the  eastern Soviet Union  where he trained at a Soviet
army base, having already retreated from northeastern  China ,
the scene of most of his guerrilla activity. Soviet records
show that the year of Kim’s Feb. 16 birth was altered in the
official version, to 1942 from 1941. That permitted his
milestone birthdays to be celebrated in the same years when the
country feted those of his father, who was born in 1912.  Troubled Life  Kim Il Sung  and his family returned in 1945 to Pyongyang,
which became the capital of North Korea after the government
was established in 1948. After the elder Kim took power, his
son experienced a troubled family life. A younger brother
drowned, and his mother died. His father remarried and the boy
clashed with his stepmother and half-brothers.  Official accounts say non-family members including
teachers deferred to the son as a little prince. By the time he
graduated from  Kim Il Sung University  in Pyongyang in 1964, he
had developed a reputation among the small foreign community as
undisciplined and impulsive, a hard-partying womanizer and
lover of gourmet food and fast cars.  For three decades, Kim exercised power as a high-level
official, rarely traveling abroad or meeting foreign leaders
and often going for long periods when his domestic public
appearances weren’t mentioned in the state-run media. He was
named the heir-designate in 1974 and made co-ruler in 1984.  Movie Buff  Kim was a cinema buff whose personal library included tens
of thousands of western movies. Obsessed with improving the
country’s film output, he had agents kidnap South Korea’s
leading director, Shin Sang-ok, and the director’s actress wife,
Choi Eun-hi. They were brought to Pyongyang to work in the
local industry and subsequently escaped with tape recordings of
conversations they had with Kim.  For more than a decade, Kim also employed a Japanese sushi
chef, whose 2003 memoir, “Kim Jong Il’s Chef,” chronicled
lavish dinner parties featuring global delicacies.  As deputy and later leader of the party’s propaganda
department, Kim led North Korea’s version of China’s Cultural
Revolution, remodeling the country’s cinema, opera and other
arts to intensify the  personality cult  that deified his father
and later himself.  “People of the world, if you are looking for miracles,
come to Korea,” the party  newspaper  said in a pre-Christmas
editorial celebrating the junior Kim’s 1980 elevation to the
politburo’s inner circle. “Christians, do not go to  Jerusalem .
Come rather to Korea. Do not believe in God. Believe in the
great man.”  That way of looking at the supreme leader “was the work
of Kim Jong Il” rather than his father, wrote Hwang Jang Yop,
a former propaganda chief who defected to South Korea in 1997.
Kim’s economic legacy is a country on the brink of ruin.  North Korean Economy  Until the early 1970s, North Korea’s command economy
performed impressively compared with the capitalist system
adopted by rival South Korea.  Those roles reversed early in Kim’s tenure as South Korea’s
economy took off, though he largely ignored economic realities
and lavished funds on grandiose monuments promoting worship of
his parents and himself. Most prominent is a 105-story pyramid-
shaped  hotel building  dominating the Pyongyang skyline. Started
in 1987, the hotel remained under construction and unopened
more than two decades later.  Kim remained hesitant to open the country to market forces.
During a visit to China in 1983, Chinese leader Hu Yaobang
advised him to promote tourism. Kim worried that tourists would
be able to identify North Korea’s defenses.  “If Pyongyang is opened up, it will be the same as
calling back the forces along the border,” he told the
kidnapped  director  and actress in a 1983 discussion that they
secretly taped and later carried out during their escape in
1986. “It’s the same as being disarmed.”  Deadly Walk  Tourists were permitted in the late 1990s, most notably to
Mount Geumgang, known for its scenic beauty. In 2008, North
Korean troops shot and killed a South Korean tourist there who
they said entered a military zone while taking a walk. The
resort is now closed to South Koreans.  By the time Kim took power in 1994,  Russia  and the
countries of Eastern Europe had cast off communism and were no
longer sending aid. That left China as the main benefactor,
accounting for 83 percent of North Korea’s $4.2 billion of
international commerce in 2010, according to the Seoul-based
Korea Trade & Investment Promotion Agency.  1990s Famine  Hundreds of thousands of North Koreans died in a  famine  in
the mid- and late-1990s. Kim refrained from enforcing the usual
tight restrictions on mobility, permitting starving people to
travel within the country to find food. Kim hoped to avert a
sudden loss of popular support, so that the regime would not
“experience meltdown as in Poland and  Czechoslovakia ,” he
said in a 1996 speech that was recorded and later smuggled
abroad.  Kim’s closest flirtation with economic overhaul began with
a series of legal changes starting in 1998. A new constitution
adopted that year called for “a cost-accounting system” for
economic management and joint ventures with foreigners in
special economic zones.  This led to the opening of Gaeseong Industrial Complex
where more than 100 South Korean companies set up shop, hiring
North Korean workers. South Korea’s economy is 40 times larger
than North Korea’s.  Nuclear Brinksmanship  Kim stepped up his nuclear brinksmanship with the outside
world in 2003, when he withdrew from the Nuclear Non-
Proliferation Treaty, triggering a flurry of diplomatic
activity that spawned the six-party talks involving the U.S.,
Japan, Russia, South Korea and China. Negotiations intensified
after the 2006 nuclear detonation, with North Korea agreeing to
shut its nuclear reactor in exchange for shipments of fuel.  Tensions flared again in April 2009 after the UN denounced
a ballistic missile test and North Korea said it would withdraw
permanently from six-party negotiations and resume uranium
enrichment. The regime also fired 17 short-range missiles
between May and July.  Kim’s regime tested a second nuclear device in May as well,
precipitating additional UN sanctions. The  Security Council  on
July 17 barred five North Korean officials from leaving their
country and ordered their foreign assets frozen as punishment
for working on nuclear weapons and missiles.  Public Appearances  Kim made two major public appearances in 2009, once in
April and another on July 8 to commemorate the 15th anniversary
of his father’s death. In footage of the latter event on Korean
Central Television, Kim limped and his hair and features seemed
thinner than three months earlier.  He bounced back a month later, leveraging the detention of
U.S. journalists Euna Lee and Laura Ling to win a visit by
former U.S. President  Bill Clinton . Clinton flew to Pyongyang
on what the U.S. administration insisted was a private
humanitarian mission to secure the reporters’ freedom.  Kim was photographed smiling alongside a stony-faced
Clinton, who left with the women following a one-hour meeting
and dinner with the Korean leader, according to Korean Central
News Agency.  “Kim Jong Il inherited a genius for playing the weak hand
and by keeping the major powers nervous, continuing his
father’s tradition of turning Korea’s history of subservience
on its head,” said Michael Breen, the Seoul-based author of
“Kim Jong Il: North Korea’s Dear Leader,” a  biography . “We
have entered an uncertain moment with North Korea.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Austin  in  Tokyo  at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  