-- CNH, Chery Heavy Industries Trump Kubota Bid for Kverneland
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2011-12-19T17:23:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/kverneland-gets-takeover-offer-from-cnh-trumping-kubota-1-.html
Kverneland ASA (KVE) , a Norwegian maker of
tractor equipment, said  CNH Global NV (CNH)  and Chery Heavy Industries
Co. Ltd. made separate takeover bids of 1.46 billion kroner
($245 million) to trump an offer from Japan’s  Kubota Corp. (6326)   CNH Global, controlled by Fiat Industrial SpA, is
considering a bid of 9.5 kroner a share in cash for the
Kverneland, Norway-based company, pending due diligence, Fiat
Industrial said today in statement. Kverneland said it expects
CNH may make a binding offer by Dec. 23. Chery Heavy Industries
Co. Ltd. also indicated after the market closed it may make
a similar bid, Kverneland said in a separate statement.  Fiat Industrial is seeking to expand in northern  Europe  and
to widen CNH’s product range with Kverneland in its first
acquisition since the truck and tractor maker was spun off from
Fiat SpA in January. Chairman  Sergio Marchionne  has repeatedly
said that Fiat Industrial has more freedom to make alliances
after being separated from the Italian carmaker.  The offers from the Amsterdam-based maker of Case and New
Holland agricultural equipment and the Wuhu, China-based Chery
are 1 krone more per share than Kubota offered on Dec. 16, which
was 36 percent higher than the prior day’s closing price.  Chery
said that it would need longer than the Dec. 23 deadline CNH has
indicated to carry out due diligence on the company.  Kubota has the right to match a binding offer within five
business days if Kverneland’s board considers such a bid to be
superior to the bid by the Japanese maker of industrial
machinery, the Norwegian company said. Kverneland must pay a 1.5
million-euro ($2 million) break fee if the board withdraws its
recommendation of the Kubota offer, the company said in a
statement on Dec. 16.  Fiat Industrial owns 88 percent of CNH, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Kverneland shares rose 18 percent to 9.95 kroner as of 5:30
p.m. in Oslo. Fiat Industrial rose 0.6 percent in Milan trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net 
Tommaso Ebhardt at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  