-- New York Times Is in Talks to Sell Regional Newspapers to Halifax Media
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2011-12-19T21:23:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/new-york-times-in-talks-to-sell-local-newspapers.html
New York Times Co. (NYT) , struggling with
declining advertising sales, is in talks to sell its regional-
newspaper unit to Halifax Media Holdings LLC.  Times Co.’s Regional Media Group unit consists of 16
newspapers, other print publications and related businesses, the
company said today in a statement. The unit is  managed  by Chief
Operating Officer Michael Golden, a cousin of Chairman Arthur Sulzberger Jr.  Times Co. last week announced the retirement of Chief
Executive Officer Janet Robinson. Its shares have fallen more
than 80 percent since the end of 2004, as Robinson, like her
peers in the newspaper industry, grappled with declining
advertising and circulation as readers shifted to the Web.  The Regional Media Group, which includes the Press Democrat
in  Santa Rosa ,  California  and the Tuscaloosa News in Alabama,
posted $60 million in revenue in the third quarter, 11 percent
of Times Co.’s overall sales. The unit’s sales have fallen 48
percent in the last five years.  Advertising in the Regional Media Group has declined every
year since 2006 as circulation declined and readers switched to
online publications. The division’s third quarter ad sales were
$36.8 million, a 9.7 percent drop from a year ago, and
circulation revenue was $18.3 million, down 1.5 percent.  Times Co. recorded a $152.1 million goodwill impairment
charge for the Regional Media Group in the second quarter,
according to a company filing.  Halifax Media is based in  Daytona Beach ,  Florida  and owns
the  Daytona Beach News-Journal .  Blogger Jim Romenesko  first reported  the news after seeing
Times Co.’s regional newspapers listed on Halifax Media’s
website.  Times Co. fell 2.3 percent to $7.19 at the close in  New
York . The shares have declined 27 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  