-- No Relief for Homeowners Shut Out by U.S.
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2011-12-19T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/no-relief-for-homeowners-shut-out-by-u-s-.html
Marc and Emily De La Torre would
love to lower their mortgage bills to offset the costs of
raising their 3-month-old baby. Instead, they’re among millions
of Americans left out as the government tries again to make
refinancing possible for borrowers with little or no equity.  The couple bought their Bonney Lake,  Washington , property
in July 2009, two months too late to be eligible for the federal
Home Affordable Refinance Program, or HARP. Blocked from
conventional refinancing after the house fell in value, the De
La Torres can’t take advantage of record-low  loan rates  that
have been a boon for other homeowners.  “It stinks that we’re right on the border of it,” said
Marc De La Torre, a 30-year-old computer programmer whose wife
left her job after the birth of their daughter, Cassie. “It’s
an arbitrary date.”  The Obama administration this month started a new version
of HARP after the original program helped less than a quarter of
the people targeted to lock in lower rates. In designing what’s
being called HARP 2.0, regulators sought to avoid disrupting the
mortgage-bond market and putting too much taxpayer money at
risk. Their balancing act, which included not extending the
cutoff date, will limit the plan’s impact because millions of
borrowers remain ineligible or may qualify only at rates that
would yield minimal savings.  Low-Hanging Fruit  HARP’s effectiveness is directly tied to the number of
homeowners who take advantage of it, according to Christopher Mayer, a real estate professor at  Columbia Business School  in
New York. Removing barriers to refinancing has the potential to
spur economic growth by freeing up spending money and to help
stabilize housing by reducing defaults, he said.  “This is better than where we were, but once we’ve
conceded that we’re going to do this program, we should make it
as attractive as possible,” said Mayer, who has worked on a
proposal for a more expansive refinancing plan. “They’ve done
some of the hardest things, but then severely limited the number
of consumers who can benefit. This is low-hanging fruit that is
being left on the vine.”  HARP 2.0 cuts risks for lenders while lowering fees for
borrowers and allowing them to refinance no matter how much
their home’s value has dropped. In the third quarter, about 29
percent of borrowers were “underwater,” or owed more than
their properties were worth, according to real estate data
provider Zillow Inc.  Program Exclusions  The new program, like its predecessor, is open to the
almost 50 percent of U.S. loans owned or insured by government-
backed Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac . It keeps in place rules that
disqualify borrowers whose loans were sold to those companies
after May 31, 2009. Also excluded is anyone who was late with
more than one payment in the past year or who is unemployed.  According to government estimates, it may help about
900,000 additional borrowers, doubling the current number of
loans that have been refinanced.  A study by the  Congressional Budget Office  released in
September showed a more aggressive program that didn’t have the
May 2009 cutoff and included deeper cuts to fees would result in
about 2.3 million additional HARP refinancings, based on data
included in the paper.  Meg Burns, a senior associate director at the  Federal
Housing Finance Agency , the government regulator that oversees
 Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac, said HARP isn’t for borrowers who
are struggling to make their payments. Those homeowners would be
better off seeking loan modifications or payment holidays than
paying extra refinancing-related costs such as those for new
title insurance and closing agents.  Deadline Rational  Lifting HARP’s cutoff date would have increased
administrative costs without providing a significant benefit,
according to Burns.  “Rates are generally very low for those borrowers
already,” she said. “And at a certain point, once you pay the
closing costs, the slight reduction in your rate might not be
really worth your while.”  The cutoff date may also prevent a surge of homeowners
seeking small payment decreases from crowding out borrowers who
could save more significant amounts. Following staff cuts in the
mortgage industry earlier this year, lenders’ capacity to handle
applications already “may have hit its limit,” Morgan Stanley
analysts said in a Dec. 2 report.  The De La Torres, who owe about $250,000 on their three-
bedroom property, might save about $133 a month if they were
able to lower the  interest rate  on their 30-year mortgage from
4.9 percent to 4 percent. They can’t qualify for a traditional
refinancing because they may have less than 5 percent equity.
Home values in  Bonney Lake , about 40 miles (65 kilometers) south
of  Seattle , have fallen about 20 percent since they purchased
two years ago, according to Seattle-based Zillow.  Role of Equity  The average rate for a 30-year fixed loan fell from 5.3
percent in July 2009, when they bought the house, to 3.94
percent last week, matching the lowest level on record,
according to data from Freddie Mac.  HARP was designed to help borrowers like the De La Torres
because it exempts them from having to obtain  mortgage
insurance . While Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac typically require
the policies for homeowners with less than 20 percent equity to
reduce potential  foreclosure losses , insurers often don’t offer
them to anyone with less than 10 percent equity.  Under the expanded HARP, households with lower credit
scores or more than 25 percent negative equity may have to pay
rates so high they reduce or eliminate any potential savings
they would receive by refinancing. Lenders must pay surcharges
to the government-sponsored mortgage companies when refinancing
borrowers with weak credit scores or high loan-to-value ratios,
and those costs may be passed on to consumers.  Bank Rules  HARP 2.0 eliminates the fees for borrowers who switch to
shorter-term mortgages, which come with larger monthly payments.
The cost of refinancing all other borrowers with low credit
scores who live in their properties are reduced but not
eliminated.  HARP is voluntary, and banks that participate often follow
their own rules that are stricter than the guidelines provided
by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The process can be frustrating
for consumers.  Karen Kopacz, a 40-year-old resident of  St. Paul ,
 Minnesota , who has a 30-year mortgage with a 6 percent interest
rate, said she applied to her bank three times in less than two
months and each time got a different answer. She said  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  in late October said she didn’t qualify because
she had a second lien, which she took on when purchasing the
two-bedroom house six years ago to avoid making a down payment.  ‘No One Understands’  On Nov. 21, a bank representative offered her a 5.375
percent rate. And on Dec. 13, another employee offered to
qualify her for a 4.5 percent rate under the old HARP rules.
Bank of America, like most lenders, hasn’t yet implemented much
of HARP 2.0.  Kopacz, who owes $148,484 on the house she bought in 2005,
is about 20 percent underwater on the first lien, based on a
$121,600 home value given by Zillow.  “It’s very confusing,” said Kopacz, who started a blog,
called Making Sense of Harp, to document her experiences. “No
one understands what the HARP qualifications actually are, even
the bank employees.”  “Bank of America had previously made product adjustments
to ensure a more predictable customer experience,”  Terry Francisco , a spokesman for the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
company, said in an e-mail. “Today, those adjustments are no
longer in place and we are providing eligible customers with
competitive options on a full range of products to meet their
refinancing needs.”  Good Compromise  The bank has funded about 200,000 HARP loans since the
start of the program in 2009 and supports the changes made by
the government, according to a Dec. 16 statement.  Bill Roth, co-chief investment officer of Two Harbors
Investment Corp., a real estate investment trust that buys home-
loan assets, said the government’s plan balances the interests
of existing homeowners, property buyers and mortgage investors.  Eliminating all refinancing barriers, such as the HARP
cutoff date, would drive up new-loan costs for all borrowers by
roiling the mortgage-bond market, according to Roth. That’s
because debt investors demand higher yields when they’re
uncertain about how many borrowers will pay off their loans
ahead of schedule, causing unforeseen losses.  “If you have a situation where the rules are going to
change continuously, then whatever you do is going to be self-
defeating because the  mortgage rates  are going to go up,” he
said.  Case for More  Mortgage bondholders were initially concerned that an
expanded HARP would trigger a flood of refinancing. The
difference between yields on Fannie Mae securities that guide
new loan rates and 10-year Treasuries jumped from 1.03
percentage points on Aug. 15 to 1.21 percentage points on Nov.
23, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The spread fell as
low as 0.94 percentage point this month as bond buyers
determined the impact of HARP 2.0 would be limited.  Deborah Lucas, a finance professor at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology Sloan School of Management, said a wider
refinancing program wouldn’t have a significant impact on
mortgage rates.  “The administration could have gone bigger,” said Lucas,
a co-author of the Congressional Budget Office study of HARP.
“When we take out a 30-year mortgage, we’re allowed to pay it
back any time without a penalty. That’s the way the contract is
written. That ability to pay it back whenever you want is always
costly to investors because people tend to refinance when rates
have fallen.”  ‘Great Leaps’  Loosening the rules further would reduce risks for
taxpayers by making it less likely that some borrowers will
default, said  Joseph Gagnon , a former Federal Reserve economist
and a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International
Economics in Washington.  “The government is already on the hook,” Gagnon said.
“If you lost your job, the government will lose anyway. But the
government is less likely to lose if you can get a lower
payment.”  Mayer, who criticized HARP 2.0 for not going far enough,
said it makes “great leaps” in addressing a key roadblock:
bank participation.  Many lenders have been hesitant to refinance underwater
mortgages, especially those taken out by borrowers with weak
credit, because of concerns that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will
force them to buy back loans that default because of
underwriting flaws on the original mortgage, said Sandipan Deb,
mortgage-backed securities analyst for  Barclays Capital  in  New
York . Only 8 percent of HARP loans through the third quarter of
this year were more than 5 percent underwater, according to data
from the Federal Housing Finance Agency.  Looser Rules  The new rules address the problem by not requiring that the
old loan be evaluated for underwriting issues as long as a
pattern of fraud didn’t occur. Bank of America said this month
that lenders are still hoping for a less “vague” exception, as
well as other tweaks to what it takes to qualify borrowers.  And most mortgage insurers say they will waive rights to
void coverage for most types of underwriting mistakes. Lenders
have been turning away borrowers because of the costs and delays
associated with transferring policies to the new loan.  The government, even under the new rules, may not
sufficiently indemnify third-party banks that want to provide a
HARP refinance for a mortgage they don’t service, said Jordan
Eizenga, an economic policy analyst with the Center for American
Progress in Washington.  Mortgage servicers may be more likely to participate more
fully in HARP and offer better rates if they were concerned that
borrowers could easily get loans refinanced by competitors,
Eizenga said.  “Fannie and Freddie are acknowledging there are
impediments,” Eizenga said. “But they don’t go 100 percent of
the way to solving it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  