-- North Dakota Thrives as Nevada Suffers in Divergent U.S. Recovery: Economy
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2011-12-19T20:32:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/north-dakota-thrives-as-nevada-suffers-in-divergent-u-s-recovery-economy.html
The U.S. economic expansion that
began in June 2009 shows a dichotomy at the state level, with
 Nevada , California and Florida labor markets still languishing
from the real estate collapse at the same time domestic energy
production drives employment in North Dakota and Alaska.  By the first quarter of 2012, oil and gas-rich Texas will
gain back all of the jobs it lost during the last recession, the
third state to do so after North Dakota and  Alaska , according to
a forecast released today by IHS Global Insight Inc. Nevada and
Michigan won’t get there until 2017 or after.  With widespread areas of the country lagging behind in job
creation, the U.S. expansion may have trouble gaining momentum,
said James Diffley, chief U.S. regional economist at IHS in
Philadelphia. States such as Nevada, Florida and  Georgia  that
benefited from the housing boom in 2002 to 2006 are now
laggards, he said.  “There has been a dramatic reversal of fortunes,” Diffley
said. “The previously booming Sun Belt, excluding Texas, has
morphed into the most depressed area of the country because of
the housing bust. The unevenness from state to state is both a
reflection of, and a cause of, the weak recovery.”  Among the other largest U.S. states,  New York  and
 Pennsylvania  will probably return to peak employment in 2013,
Illinois and North Carolina in 2015, and California, Florida,
Georgia and  Ohio  in 2016, IHS Global Insight projects.  Growth in the U.S. may be 2 percent next year, not enough
to reduce unemployment much from a November level of 8.6
percent, said  Mark Vitner , senior economist at Wells Fargo
Securities LLC in Charlotte,  North Carolina .  ‘Narrow’ Recovery  “There are only a handful of bright spots,” said Vitner.
“I am troubled by how narrow the economic recovery is today. I
think this puts us in a vulnerable position if  Europe  and the
global economy weaken more quickly and more severely than is
currently expected.”  The ratio of bad loans as a proportion of total lending at
Spanish banks climbed in October to the highest level since
1994, showing how the fallout from the country’s property slump,
rising unemployment and the spreading European debt crisis has
hurt the industry, figures from the Bank of Spain showed today.  Data from Asia today indicated  consumer spending  in  Japan 
is stabilizing, helping support an economy that faces growing
risks from abroad. Japanese department store sales fell 1.9
percent in November from the same month a year earlier, the
Japan Department Store Association said in  Tokyo . The three-
month moving average was a 1.6 percent drop, little changed from
the August-October period, and demand has been “relatively
solid,” the group said.  Shares Rise  Stocks in the U.S. fell on a report that European Union
ministers failed to agree on raising the ceiling for their
bailout fund. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 1.2
percent to 1,205.07 at 3:29 p.m. in New York.  North Dakota ’s economy was ranked best-performing among
U.S. states in the second quarter, followed by Oklahoma,
according to the Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States Index,
which uses data on employment, income, real estate, taxes and
stocks.  A slowdown in migration of U.S. job seekers from depressed
states to faster-growing ones will keep the  unemployment rate 
from returning to prerecession levels, said  Mark Zandi , chief
economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester,
Pennsylvania.  ‘Underwater’ Homeowners  “In past recoveries, unemployed workers could quickly move
to find work,” he said. “It is much more difficult to do that
today given the large number of underwater homeowners and the
aging of the population. This suggests that the recovery will be
weaker than past recoveries.”  The economies and labor markets in  Alaska , North Dakota and
Texas all reflect rising energy prices and increased spending on
exploration, Diffley said.  Through October, Texas has recovered 94 percent of the jobs
lost during the recession, compared with just 27 percent for the
U.S., Comptroller Susan Combs wrote in a Dec. 12 letter to
Republican presidential candidate and Governor Rick Perry.  North Dakota and Alaska led tax collection increases from
July to September, with revenue more than doubling because of
“taxes driven by higher oil and mineral prices,” the Nelson A.
Rockefeller Institute of Government said Dec. 8.  Since 2005, oil production in North Dakota has nearly
quadrupled at the same time employment in mining, quarrying, and
oil and gas extraction has increased 185 percent, IHS said.  Wage Gains  What’s more, energy-producing regions are seeing
“significant wage gains,” said  Drew Matus , senior U.S.
economist at UBS Securities LLC. “Go to North Dakota and try to
rent a hotel room for the night. Good luck, right? You cannot do
it.”  Meantime, in places where housing’s collapse was most-
pronounced, states continue to languish. Nevada, California and
Arizona posted the highest foreclosure rates in November, with
Florida, Georgia and  Michigan  among the top 10 states, according
to RealtyTrac Inc., a mortgage-data firm.  “Nevada -- Las Vegas -- was ground zero for the housing
bubble,” said  Charles Lieberman , chief investment officer with
Advisors Capital Management LLC in Hasbrouck Heights,  New
Jersey , and a former head of monetary analysis at the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York. “One would expect people to have a
gloomier outlook in Las Vegas than in North Dakota.”  Commercial Real Estate  Georgia suffers from an overbuilt commercial real estate
market, said Rajeev Dhawan, Georgia State University’s economic
forecaster in Atlanta. “What we need to make a dent in the sky-
high office vacancy rate is to create 10,000 jobs in the coming
months.” Instead, job announcements have been “in the
hundreds,” he said.  About 25 percent of the nation’s metropolitan areas are
growing in excess of 4 percent, said  Paul Ballew , chief
economist at Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co. in Columbus, Ohio.  “You get these pockets of geographic growth” outside the
“epicenter of housing,” he said. “One of the things that has
played out this year is the geographic unevenness has continued
to roll forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  