-- North Korea Transition Adds Risk as South Korea Exports Slow
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2011-12-20T04:05:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/north-korea-transition-adds-risk-as-south-korea-s-exports-slow.html
Kim Jong Il’s death and the risk of
instability in  North Korea  may weigh on business and consumer
confidence in  South Korea  just as the central bank warns of
threats to growth and exports falter.  Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan yesterday pledged preemptive
action if needed to support financial markets and the economy as
the won and stocks fell. The central bank will “closely
monitor” developments and stabilize markets if needed, Governor
Kim Choong Soo said.  Moves toward Kim Jong Un’s succession after his father’s 17
years of rule are a distraction for South Korean officials
steering their nation through an export slowdown triggered by
 Europe ’s debt crisis. The government is forecasting that
shipments will grow in 2012 at less than half of this year’s
pace and the central bank said Dec. 8 that “downside” risks
for the economy are dominant.  North Korea’s transition “may hurt confidence in the short
term,” said Kwon Young Sun, an economist at Nomura Holdings
Inc. who worked at the central bank for 14 years through 2006.
He added that the government will “do whatever it takes” to
boost sentiment if necessary.  The  Kospi index (KOSPI)  of stocks rose 0.8 percent as of 1 p.m.
local time today after slumping 3.4 percent yesterday, the
biggest decline in five weeks. Kim’s death sparked concern there
could be a power struggle in the nation, still technically at
war with the South.  North Korean Attack  Risks from North Korea are rising “sharply,” Bahk said in
 Seoul . South Korea has recovered quickly from past North Korea-
related shocks, he added.  Four South Koreans died in November last year when the
North shelled Yeonpyeong Island in retaliation for South Korea
firing rounds into disputed waters during a training exercise.
Relations soured earlier in 2010 over the sinking of a South
Korean warship, killing 46 sailors.  “It is too early to say how the situation will evolve
after  Kim Jong Il ’s death, but political developments demand
close attention,”  Fitch Ratings  said in a statement yesterday.
Fitch, Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service saw no
immediate implications for South Korea’s credit rating.  Exports, Consumption  “Business confidence may be affected, especially when
external demand is quite weak already,” said  Frances Cheung , a
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong. At the same
time, any impact may be “relatively short-lived” because the
leadership transition was planned and hence less risky than
otherwise, she said.  South Korea’s exports, equivalent to half of the economy,
may increase 7.4 percent next year, down from a 19.2 percent
gain this year, according to the  finance ministry . At home,
sales at major department stores fell last month for the first
time since February 2009, government data show.  Lee Sung Kwon, an economist at Shinhan Investment Corp. in
Seoul, said that  consumer confidence  may slide and any
instability in North Korea could be an extra reason for the
central bank to cut rates in January after leaving them on hold
for six straight months.  ‘  North Korea’s state media yesterday called for citizens to
“loyally follow” Kim Jong Un, who is at the “forefront of the
revolution.” Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc said Kim’s death
had increased the chance of the regime collapsing through a coup
or a failed attempt to reform the political and economic system.  One Volatile Week  The harm to South Korean confidence may be limited because
the nation is used to “living with uncertainty and occasional
attacks,” Erik Lueth, a Hong Kong-based economist for Royal
Bank of  Scotland . He said that some institutions may reduce
their investments in South Korea and markets may remain volatile
“over the next week or two.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a note that
“historically, the impact of events in North Korea on the Kospi
has not lasted more than a week, and we do not see any reason
why the situation would be different now.”  South Korea’s economic growth will slow to 3.7 percent next
year from 3.8 percent this year and 6.2 percent last year, the
nation’s finance ministry says.  The leadership change comes “at a challenging time for the
South, where the economy is already facing stiff external
headwinds,” said  Frederic Neumann , an analyst at HSBC Holdings
Plc in  Hong Kong .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  