-- North Korea’s Kim Built ‘Invincible Military,’ KCNA News Agency Says: Text
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 8 6 7 8 2 9 ]   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y   [ ]
-- 2011-12-19T05:28:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/north-korea-s-kim-built-invincible-military-kcna-news-agency-says-text.html
The following is a reformatted
version of an e-mailed statement released today by the official
Korean Central News Agency from Pyongyang after the announcement
of the death of North Korean dictator Kim Jong Il.  “The  Central Committee  and the Central Military Commission
of the Workers’ Party of  Korea , the National Defence Commission
of the DPRK, the Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly and
the Cabinet of the DPRK on Saturday announced the following
notice to all party members, servicepersons and people:  “The Central Committee and the Central Military Commission
of the Workers’ Party of Korea, the National Defence Commission
of the DPRK, the Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly and
the Cabinet of the DPRK notify with bitterest grief to all the
party members, servicepersons and people of the DPRK that Kim
Jong Il, general secretary of the Workers’ Party of Korea,
chairman of the National Defence Commission of the DPRK and
supreme commander of the Korean People’s Army, passed away of a
sudden illness at 08: 30 on December 17, Juche 100 (2011) on his
way to field guidance.  “He dedicated all his life to the inheritance and
accomplishment of the revolutionary cause of Juche and
energetically worked day and night for the prosperity of the
socialist homeland, happiness of people, reunification of the
country and global independence. He passed away too suddenly to
our profound regret.  “His sudden demise at a historic time when an epochal
phase is being opened for accomplishing the cause of building a
powerful and prosperous socialist state and the Korean
revolution is making steady victorious progress despite manifold
difficulties and trials is the greatest loss to the WPK and the
Korean revolution and the bitterest grief to all the Koreans at
home and abroad.  “ Kim Jong Il , who was born as a son of guerillas on Mt.
Paektu, the holy mountain of the revolution, and grew up to be a
great revolutionary, wisely led the party, the army and people
for a long period, performing undying revolutionary feats on
behalf of the country, the people, the times and history.  “Kim Jong Il possessed of personality and qualifications
as a great man on the highest and perfect level was an
outstanding thinker and theoretician who led the revolution and
construction along the path of steady victories with his
profound ideologies and theories and remarkable leadership. He
was also peerlessly political elder and outstanding and
illustrious commander of Songun and peerless patriot and tender-
hearted father of the people who recorded the whole history of
the revolutionary struggle with ardent love for the country and
its people and noble dedication.  “Considering it as his lifelong mission to carry to
completion generation after generation the revolutionary cause
of Juche started by President  Kim Il Sung , Kim Jong Il pushed
forward the revolution and construction in line with the idea
and intention of the President as the dearest comrade and the
most loyal comrade-in-arms of the President.  “Kim Jong Il comprehensively developed in depth the
immortal Juche idea, Songun idea, fathered by the President and
glorified it as the idea guiding the era of independence with
his clairvoyant wisdom and energetic ideological and theoretical
activities. He firmly defended and carried forward the
revolutionary traditions of Mt. Paektu with pure mind, thereby
giving a steady continuity to the Korean revolution.  “Kim Jong Il, genius of the revolution and construction,
developed the party, army and state to be the party, army and
state of Kim Il Sung, put the dignity and power of the nation on
the highest level and ushered in the golden days of prosperity
unprecedented in the nation’s history spanning 5 000 years under
the uplifted banner of modeling the whole society on the Juche
idea.  “Kim Jong Il, supreme incarnation of the revolutionary
moral obligation, set a great example in perpetuating the memory
of President Kim Il Sung unknown in human political history,
thus making sure that the august name of the President, his
undying revolutionary career and exploits always shine along
with the eternal history of Juche Korea.  “Kim Jong Il, great master of politics and illustrious
commander born of Heaven, honorably defended the socialist gains,
noble heritage bequeathed by the President, by dint of Songun
politics despite the collapse of the world socialist system, the
demise of the President which was the greatest loss to the
nation, the vicious offensive of the imperialist allied forces
to stifle the DPRK and severe natural disasters. He turned the
DPRK into an invincible political and ideological power in which
single-minded unity has been achieved and made it emerge a
nuclear weapons state and an invincible military power which no
enemy can ever provoke.  “True to President Kim Il Sung’s behest, Kim Jong Il set a
gigantic goal to build a prosperous and powerful country and led
an all-people general advance for attaining it, thus making the
drive for a great revolutionary surge rage throughout the
country and bringing about great innovations and leap forward on
all fronts of socialist construction.  “Kim Jong Il, father of the nation and lodestar of
national reunification, led all the fellow countrymen to the
road of independence and great national unity with his rock-firm
will to implement the instructions of the President for national
reunification and ushered in the June 15 era of reunification in
which the noble idea of “By our nation itself” is materialized.  “As a great guardian of socialism and justice, he
conducted energetic external activities for the victory of the
socialist cause, global peace and stability and friendship and
solidarity among peoples under the uplifted banner of
independence against imperialism, thus remarkably raising the
international position and prestige of the DPRK and making
immortal contributions to the human cause of independence.  “In the whole period of his protracted revolutionary
guidance, he valued and loved the people very much and always
shared weal and woe with them. He continued to make difficult
forced march for field guidance, making unremitting efforts and
working heart and soul to build a thriving country and improve
the standard of people’s living. He died from repeated mental
and physical fatigue on a train in that course.  “The whole life of Kim Jong Il was the most brilliant life
of a great revolutionary who covered an untrodden thorny path
with his iron will and superhuman energy, holding aloft the red
flag of revolution. It was the life of the peerless patriot who
dedicated his all to the country and its people.  “He passed away to our regret before seeing the victory of
the cause of building a thriving nation, the national
reunification and the accomplishment of the revolutionary cause
of Juche so ardently desired by him, but laid a strong political
and military base for ensuring the steady advance of the Korean
revolution through generations and provided a solid foundation
for the eternal prosperity of the country and the nation.  “Standing in the van of the Korean revolution at present
is Kim Jong Un, great successor to the revolutionary cause of
Juche and outstanding leader of our party, army and people.  “Kim Jong Un’s leadership provides a sure guarantee for
creditably carrying to completion the revolutionary cause of
Juche through generations, the cause started by Kim Il Sung and
led by Kim Jong Il to victory.  “We have the invincible revolutionary army of Mt. Paektu
faithful to the cause of the Workers’ Party of Korea, the great
unity of the army and people closely rallied around the Party,
the best Korean-style socialist system centered on the popular
masses and the solid foundation of the independent national
economy.  “Under the leadership of Kim Jong Un we should turn our
sorrow into strength and courage and overcome the present
difficulties and work harder for fresh great victory of the
Juche revolution.  “Our army and people will hold leader Kim Jong Il in high
esteem forever with unshakable faith and noble sense of moral
obligation. True to his behests, they will make neither
slightest concession nor delay on the road of the Juche
revolution, the Songun revolution but resolutely defend his
undying feats and glorify them for all ages.  “All the party members, servicepersons and people should
remain loyal to the guidance of respected Kim Jong Un and firmly
protect and further cement the single-minded unity of the party,
the army and the people.  “Under the uplifted banner of Songun, we should increase
the country’s military capability in every way to reliably
safeguard the Korean socialist system and the gains of
revolution and make the torch lit in South Hamgyong Province,
the drive for the industrial revolution in the new century, rage
throughout the country and thus bring about a decisive turn in
building an economic power and improving the standard of
people’s living.  “We will surely achieve the independent reunification of
the country by concerted efforts of all Koreans by thoroughly
implementing the Three Charters for National Reunification and
the north-south joint declarations.  “Our party and people will strive hard to boost friendship
and solidarity with the peoples of different countries, guided
by the idea of independence, peace and friendship, and build an
independent and peaceful, new world free from domination,
subjugation, aggression and war.  “Arduous is the road for our revolution to follow and grim
is the present situation. But no force on earth can check the
revolutionary advance of our party, army and people under the
wise leadership of Kim Jong Un.  “The heart of Kim Jong Il stopped beating, but his noble
and august name and benevolent image will always be remembered
by our army and people and his glorious history of revolutionary
activities and undying feats will remain shining in the history
of the country forever.”
 