-- N. Korea Presses Kim Succession Plan as South Braces for Impact
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n ,   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   T a e j i n   P a r k
-- 2011-12-19T18:50:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/north-korea-signals-kim-jong-un-succession-as-south-calls-police-for-duty.html
North Korean media sought to rally
support for a leadership transition to Kim Jong Un as
uncertainty around the succession unsettled stock markets from
Seoul to  Hong Kong .  Kim’s father, Kim Jong Il, died Dec. 17 from a heart attack
brought on by mental and physical strain, the official Korean
Central News Agency said yesterday. State media urged citizens
to “loyally follow” Jong Un, Kim’s little-known third son, who
the media said is at the “forefront of the revolution.”  Kim’s death ended a 17-year tenure in which North Korea
built nuclear weapons even as about 2 million of its people died
from famine. About 1.7 million troops are stationed on the
Korean peninsula.  “Kim’s death happened at a very bad time for the North
Korean regime,” said Brian Myers, a professor of international
studies at Dongseo University in Busan, South  Korea . “It has
really not proceeded very quickly with the glorification of the
heir apparent, Kim Jong Un. An average North Korean is still in
the dark about his upbringing, his biography, why he is uniquely
well qualified to take over the country.”  South Korea  pledged that, if needed, the central bank would
take steps to stabilize financial markets, and called in police
officers for emergency duty while keeping the alert level for
the military unchanged. The transition in the north adds to
risks for  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy, which is already
contending with slowing export growth as  Europe ’s debt crisis
dents global demand.  Stocks Drop  The  Kospi (KOSPI)  index of shares closed down 3.4 percent in Seoul
yesterday, and the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  lost 1.8 percent as
of 6 p.m. Korea time. South Korea’s won sank 1.4 percent to
1,174.80 per dollar.  During a state television broadcast monitored in  Tokyo , the
announcer wept as she read the news of Kim Jong Il’s death.
Footage was aired of thousands of people in the main square of
the capital, Pyongyang, chanting in unison and waving
Kimjongilia, a flower named after the deceased leader. While
official reports give Kim’s age as 69, Russian records indicate
that he was born in Siberia in February 1941.  Kim Jong Il set in line his succession plan last year. Kim
Jong Un, believed to be 28 or 29, was first mentioned in
official KCNA dispatches on Sept. 28, 2010, in an announcement
of his appointments as general and vice chairman of the party’s
Central Military Commission.  At Father’s Side  Jong Un stood at his father’s right at a military parade
the next month, wearing a black suit with a mandarin collar
similar to the style worn by his grandfather, who founded the
nation after World War II. The younger Kim, educated in
 Switzerland , also emulates Kim Il Sung’s slicked-back hairstyle,
rather than the bouffant favored by his father.  Jong Il was known in official media as “dear leader,”
with Il Sung known as “great leader.” KCNA today said that
Jong Un is a “great successor” to lead the juche project,
referring to the North’s state ideology of self reliance.  “It comes at a time when there was a slight indication
 North Korea  was going through one of its good-boy phases,” said
Carlyle Thayer, a politics professor at the Australian Defense
Force Academy in Canberra, referring to signs of a North Korean
pledge to suspend parts of its nuclear program. “I don’t expect
an outbreak of war, but it takes the positive trends that were
beginning to emerge and perhaps puts them on hold.”  Brinkmanship With U.S.  North Korea for years has engaged in a strategy of
brinkmanship with the U.S. and South Korea following the 1950-53
Korean war, which ended without a peace treaty. The U.S. became
one of North Korea’s biggest aid donors as its negotiators
forged periodic agreements with Pyongyang to suspend its nuclear
armaments program.  In recent talks in Beijing, the U.S. agreed to provide food
aid to North Korea on conditions that included a suspension of
the North’s uranium enrichment, South Korea’s Yonhap News
reported Dec. 17, citing diplomatic officials in  Seoul  it didn’t
identify.  The Obama administration resumed direct talks with Kim Jong
Il’s regime in October after increased sanctions had no effect
in persuading it to abandon the nuclear program. The U.S.
special envoy on North Korea, Glyn Davies, told reporters in
Tokyo last week that further bilateral talks would hinge on the
totalitarian state changing its “provocative” behavior.  Meetings in  Washington   President Barack Obama spoke at midnight yesterday with
South Korean President Lee Myung-bak about the situation, the
White House said in a statement. Obama “reaffirmed the  United
States ’ strong commitment to the stability of the Korean
Peninsula and the security of our close ally, the Republic of
Korea,” the White House said.  North Korea moved to the top of Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s agenda yesterday. She met with Davies and later held
talks with Japanese Foreign Minister  Koichiro Gemba , whose visit
to Washington was planned before Kim’s death.  There has been no change in the alert level for U.S. forces
in South Korea, where about 28,500 troops are stationed, Defense
Department spokesman George Little told reporters at the
Pentagon. Defense Secretary Leon Panetta has spoken with his
South Korean counterpart, Little said.  “Both men agreed that it is critical to remain prudent
with respect to all matters related to our security posture
there,” Little said.  Emergency Police Duty  All police officers in South Korea were called to work for
emergency duty and commanders are discussing “a detailed course
of action” in response to developments in the North, the
National Police Agency said in a statement on its website
yesterday. The South’s military has no immediate plans to change
monitoring and combat-alert levels after finding no unusual
movements among North Korean forces, said a spokesman for the
joint chiefs of staff who declined to be named in keeping with
military policy.  Jung Seung Jo, the chairman of South Korea’s joint chiefs
of staff, and U.S. Army General James Thurman, commander of U.S.
forces in Korea, agreed to respond calmly by strengthening
military preparedness and not creating “unnecessary tension,”
the official said.  South Korea’s central bank will “closely monitor” any
developments and will take steps to stabilize markets and seek
international cooperation if needed, Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said at a meeting in Seoul yesterday. The BOK said in
a statement that it will run a 24-hour market monitoring system.  ‘Severe Implications’  Thomas Byrne, a senior vice president at Moody’s Investors
Service in  Singapore , said in an interview that “we recognize
that the collapse of the North Korean state or an outbreak of
war pose an event risk for South Korea, which will have severe
implications.” He added that “we consider that likelihood to
be remote even under the current uncertain situation.”  Yang Moo Jin, a professor at University of North Korean
Studies in Seoul, echoed Byrne’s assessment.  “The possibility of a public uprising or military coup in
North Korea seems low since the North has prepared for the
succession for the past year,” Yang said. “Kim Jong Un’s
complete takeover of the helm will not take place for a while
due to his young age and inexperienced leadership. The North
will be under the control of a governing body, I expect, for
about a year.”  Rising Tensions  Tensions on the peninsula have risen since attacks last
year that killed 50 South Koreans. North Korea shelled a South
Korean island last November, killing four people. It has denied
an international report blaming Kim’s regime for the torpedoing
of a South Korean warship eight months earlier that killed 46
sailors.  North Korea last month said that it was making progress in
building a light-water atomic reactor and producing low-enriched
uranium. The U.S.,  Japan  and South Korea have all urged  China ,
North Korea’s biggest ally, to persuade Pyongyang to return to
six-nation nuclear disarmament talks that were abandoned in
April 2009.  “Kim’s death was one of the critical Black Swan risks on
the Korean peninsula,” said Kwon Young Sun, a Hong Kong-based
economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. “The initial shock will be
negative for South Korean markets. What’s important is the
policy makers’ responses. The South Korean government probably
has contingency plan and international cooperation with the U.S.
and China is also very important.”  Speco Co. (013810)  led gains among defense-related companies in
Seoul stock trading. A defense equipment manufacturer, it jumped
by the daily limit 15 percent to 2,350 won.  Victek Co. (065450) , an
electronic warfare equipment maker, and  Huneed Technologies (005870) , a
military communication equipment manufacturer, also rallied 15
percent.  The inexperience and youth of Kim Jong Un “increase the
likelihood of miscalculation” with South Korea and the U.S. and
raises the potential risk of “provocations,” Thurman said in
written answers to the Senate Armed Services Committee in June.
“Our primary concern is the potential for additional North
Korean provocations, which is a tool of choice as part of its
coercive diplomacy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Taejin Park in Seoul at 
 tpark31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  