-- Northrop’s Sale of Global Hawk Spy Drones to South Korea Stalls
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2011-12-20T05:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/northrop-sale-of-global-hawks-to-south-korea-appears-stalled-.html
The sale of as many as four  Northrop
Grumman Corp. (NOC)  Global Hawk drones to help improve South  Korea ’s
reconnaissance capability may have stalled.  The delay, combined with a potential reduction in U-2
surveillance flights over and near  North Korea , might degrade
U.S. and  South Korea  ability to monitor events in the communist
regime, lawmakers said in a report accompanying the $662 billion
 defense  policy bill for fiscal 2012.  They didn’t elaborate on the reasons behind the delay. The
report said only that the possible sale “appears to have
stalled” and that House and Senate defense committee lawmakers
“intend to assess whether the risk of a gap in intelligence
collection in Korea is significant and to examine alternative
capabilities.”  North Korean’s leadership is undergoing a leadership
transition after  Kim Jong Il  died Dec. 17 of a heart attack
brought on by mental and physical strain, the official Korean
Central News Agency said. His son, Kim Jong Un, is the
designated successor.  South Korea was planning to buy at least one Global Hawk
“to be able to have intelligence, surveillance and
reconnaissance type assets to look into North Korea,” General
Walter Sharp, then-commander of U.S. Forces in Korea, told the
House Armed Services Committee in April.  Spy Plane Retirement  The foreign sale of Global Hawk drones would offset program
reductions that the Pentagon made this year. Eleven of the
planned 55 drones in the Pentagon program were cut because the
estimated cost per aircraft this year has increased to $113.9
million from $90.8 million.  The Global Hawk disclosure came in language prohibiting
retirement of  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s manned U-2 spy plane,
which is less expensive to operate but doesn’t have the same
endurance or ability to make longer flights.  Lawmakers directed the  Air Force  to delay the spy plane’s
retirement until the Pentagon certifies Global Hawk operations
and support costs.  The lawmakers said prematurely retiring the U-2 in the face
of a stalled Global Hawk sale might result in an intelligence
gap over North Korea.  The lawmakers also said they were concerned with a pending
plan by U.S. Pacific Command that would result in fewer U.S.-
controlled Global Hawks near Korea and more flying in other
parts of  Asia .  This move might mean “substantially reducing collection on
the peninsula,” lawmakers said.  Global Hawk Commitment  Pentagon Korea affairs spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Todd
Breasseale said Defense Department officials “as a matter of
policy decline to comment on potential arms sales until they
have been formally notified to Congress.”  Randy Belote , a spokesman for  Falls Church , Virginia-based
Northrop Grumman, said in an e-mail statement that, though no
formal letter of agreement has been signed with South Korea, a
potential Global Hawk program for as many as four aircraft is
progressing.  “We continue to work with the U.S. Air Force and have not
been notified of any changes,” he wrote. “We believe the Korea
and U.S. governments remain committed to the Global Hawk
program.”  The unmanned Global Hawk is able to fly as high as 60,000
feet and is equipped with sensors and cameras that can take
infrared and electro-optical images as well as detailed
synthetic aperture radar-based pictures. It is designed for
flights as long as 35 hours, according to the company.  Retaining the U-2 aircraft, which flies as high as 70,000
feet, may be necessary because the Global Hawk’s picture-taking
sensors “have substantially less range” than on the older spy
plane, lawmakers wrote.  A South Korean sale would be the second foreign sale of the
Global Hawk, with  Germany  the first.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  