-- North Korean Stability May Hinge on Military’s Acceptance of Kim Dynasty
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2011-12-20T03:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/north-korea-dynastic-succession-tested-in-choice-of-kim-s-little-known-son.html
The stability of nuclear-armed  North
Korea  may hinge on whether its military and the family of
deceased dictator Kim Jong Il agree that his little-known,
twenty-something son can extend six decades of dynastic rule.  Kim Jong Un was named to high-level military and party
posts in September 2010. Kim Jong Il, who died of a heart attack
Dec. 17, groomed his son for succession by featuring him
prominently at a party congress and having him meet with foreign
dignitaries.  The younger Kim is slated to take the reins of an economy
whose 24 million largely impoverished people -- five percent of
whom serve in the military -- have almost no access to outside
media and suffer from chronic malnutrition. North  Korea  shows no
signs of abandoning its nuclear weapons program in the face of
global sanctions and any sign of concessions from the new leader
could undermine his position.  “It’s not going to be an easy succession,” said Hong Yung
Lee, a professor of East Asian politics at the  University of
California  at  Berkeley , in a phone interview. “The most
important institution is the military. How will it handle Kim
Jong Un?”  Kim was designated the country’s leader yesterday in an
official statement announcing his father’s death, and North
Korea’s military pledged its support. The official Korean
Central News Agency called him a “great successor” to carry on
his father’s legacy. The memorial service is set for Dec. 29.  Brother, Sister  Before taking his posts and being named a four-star general
last year, Kim Jong Un had never been mentioned in official
reports.  Kim Jong Il  last year also elevated allies including
his sister Kim Kyong Hui, brother-in-law Jang Song Thaek and
Workers’ Party of Korea official Choe Ryong Hae to act as
guardians for his untested son.  “The succession has been a race against time, and time has
run out,” said Rod Lyon, a program director at the Australian
Strategic Policy Institute, in a phone interview. “If the
family is not united, we’re in a very dangerous space.”  South Korea, which never signed a peace treaty with the
North at the end of the 1950-1953  Korean War , yesterday called
in police officers for emergency duty, considered raising alert
levels for the military and pledged steps by the central bank if
needed to stabilize financial markets. South Korea’s  Kospi index (KOSPI) 
today rose as much as 1 percent after tumbling 3.4 percent
yesterday and the won rebounded from a 10-week low.  Defense Surge  Shares of South Korean military suppliers rose.  Speco Co. (013810) ,
a defense equipment manufacturer,  Victek Co. (065450) , which makes
electronic warfare equipment, and  Huneed Technologies (005870) , a
military communications equipment manufacturer, all gained by or
close to the daily limit of 15 percent for the second day.  The Japanese government, which built up its defense network
after a North Korean missile flew over Japan in 1998, today
announced the purchase of 42  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)   F-35  Joint
Strike Fighters.  During North Korea’s state television broadcast, the
announcer wept as she read the news of Kim Jong Il’s death.
Footage was aired of thousands of people in the main square of
the capital of Pyongyang chanting in unison and waving
Kimjongilia, a flower named after the deceased leader. The
country is in official mourning until Dec. 29, when a national
memorial service will be held.  ‘Military First’  Under the North’s “military first” ideology, the nation
has built an armed force of 1.2 million soldiers, with about 7.7
million in reserves, according to  South Korea ’s Unification
Ministry. Some North Korean troops withdrew from annual training
and returned to their bases after Kim’s death, South Korea’s
defense ministry said today in a statement.  “We don’t know if there is a group of angry generals that
may decide enough is enough after two generations of Kims,”
said Bradley K. Martin, author of “Under the Loving Care of the
Fatherly Leader: North Korea and the Kim Dynasty” and a former
reporter for Bloomberg News. “Jong Un is not even 30 years old,
so it’s going to be very difficult.”  Kim Jong Il reportedly had a stroke in 2008, spurring
speculation over his succession. Kim Jong Un and his older
brother, Kim Jong Chol, have a different mother than the eldest
son, Kim Jong Nam, who fell from favor after he was caught
trying to enter  Japan  in 2001 on a fake passport. Educated in
 Switzerland  according to U.S. and South Korean media, the
youngest son resembles his grandfather, Kim Il Sung, who founded
the nation after World War II.  No Supreme Commander  Kim Jong Un’s 15 months as presumptive heir pale in
comparison to the 20 years his father had to prepare as the
designated successor to Kim Il Sung, who died in 1994. Kim Jong
Il only took the highest post in the ruling Workers’ Party three
years later.  Yesterday’s statement didn’t name Kim Jong Un, thought to
be 28 or 29, to replace his father as supreme commander of the
army, head of the National Defense Commission or general
secretary of the Workers’ Party of Korea. Securing his place as
unquestioned head of state will require him to assume those
positions, said Park Joon Young, professor of international
relations at Ewha Woman’s University in  Seoul .  “He is not prepared and needs a lot of people’s help to
maintain his position as heir,” Park said. “It will be very
difficult for Jong Un to stand on his own.”  Uncle’s Response  Park and other analysts said the response of Kim Jong Un’s
uncle, Jang Song Thaek, will be key to the regime’s future. As
vice chairman of the National Defense Commission, Jang is the No.
2 government official. Granting or withdrawing his support may
make the difference for Kim Jong Un.  “Stability will depend on Jang Song Thaek, who is Kim Jong
Un’s de facto regent, and how he has positioned himself,” said
David S. Maxwell, associate director of the Center for Peace and
 Security Studies  at  Georgetown University  in  Washington , in an
e-mail. “Things are likely to unravel slowly.”  Tensions on the Korean peninsula have risen since attacks
last year on a warship and a disputed island that killed 50
South Koreans. The administration of President  Barack Obama ,
along with the  United Nations , increased  sanctions  after the
incidents. The U.S. resumed direct talks with North Korea in
October on dismantling its nuclear program, including work on a
light-water atomic reactor that the Korean Central News Agency
said on Nov. 30 was “progressing apace.”  Food Aid  Glyn Davies, the U.S. envoy on North Korea, told reporters
in Beijing that the U.S. was in talks to provide food aid to the
country. The Associated Press yesterday reported a deal had been
struck for North Korea to suspend its uranium enrichment program
in exchange for food, before Kim Jong Il’s death was announced.  North Korea’s economy shrank in 2010 for the second year in
a row, according to South Korea’s central bank. The North’s
nominal gross domestic product totaled 30 trillion won ($25.5
billion) last year, compared with South Korea’s 1,173 trillion
won, the central bank said in November.  “Even when North Korea has been under great internal and
economic strain, its levers of state control are very, very
strong,” Euan Somerled Graham, senior fellow at the S.
Rajaratnam School of International Studies in  Singapore , said by
phone. “The chance of an internal rift within North Korean
elite is the risk, rather than a spontaneous uprising from the
people.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 Syoon32@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  