-- Obama Issues Order to Boost Women’s Role in Security Issues
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2011-12-19T22:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/obama-issues-order-on-plan-for-role-of-women-in-security-matters.html
President  Barack Obama  issued an
executive order today on an initiative to ensure that
perspectives of women are included in U.S. diplomatic and
development strategy.  The order spells out steps the administration will take to
increase U.S. support for women in international efforts to
prevent and resolve conflict and in development of war-torn
areas.  “We’re convinced that including women in peace-making is
both the right thing to do and the smart thing as well,”
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said today in a speech
unveiling the initiative. “It’s the smart thing because we have
seen again and again that when women participate they help build
a better, stronger, and more durable peace. And that’s good for
everyone.”  The “U.S. National Action Plan on Women, Peace and
Security” is the product of American diplomats, development
experts and the military, according to the administration. A
White House fact sheet described the plan as a “roadmap” to
ensure that “perspectives and considerations of gender are
woven into the fabric” of peacemaking, conflict prevention and
protection of civilians.  Multiple Agencies  The order applies to the departments of State, Defense,
Justice, Treasury and Homeland Security, and also includes the
U.S. mission to the  United Nations , the Agency for International
Development, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and
the Office of U.S. Trade Representative.  “Women disproportionately bear the impact of armed
conflict yet rarely have a seat at the table during post-
conflict peace processes,” said Cristina Finch, women’s policy
director for  Amnesty International  in Washington. “The U.S.
national action plan represents a tremendous opportunity to
advance the human rights of women and children.”  The plan lays out five action areas. The U.S. will work
with women in vulnerable areas to prevent conflicts from
breaking out in the first place, Clinton said. “They know when
communities are fraying and when citizens fear for their
safety,” she said.  Violence Against Women  A second focus will be cracking down on violence against
women and girls, especially the use of rape as a weapon of war.
One aspect of this effort will be training soldiers and police
who “contribute to a culture of lawlessness, violence and
impunity.” The plan calls for the UN to hire more female
peacekeepers and better respond to violence against women,
sexual exploitation and human trafficking.  The U.S. will call for more women to be involved in peace
processes and decision-making institutions and for relief and
recovery efforts to address the “distinct needs of women and
girls.”  “Countries are more peaceful and prosperous when women are
accorded full and equal rights and opportunity,” the
administration said in the fact sheet accompanying Obama’s
order.  Efforts to forge peace agreements, development plans and
constitutions are more inclusive when women, more than 50
percent of the world’s population, “have a say in how societies
rebuild peace and recover from conflict,” the White House said.  Plans to put the order into effect must be developed within
150 days and will be overseen by the National Security Council
at the White House, according to the order. A review for
possible changes and updates would be conducted in 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in  Washington  at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net 
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  