-- Obama Insurance Decision Passes ‘Hot Potato’ to States
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2011-12-19T22:34:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/obama-health-insurance-decision-passes-political-hot-potato-to-states.html
The Obama administration avoided a
potentially brutal lobbying battle over the medical benefits
insurers must cover under the U.S. health-care overhaul when it
decided last week to hand the decision off to states.  The Dec. 16  ruling , coming less than a year before the
presidential elections, gives states the power to  set coverage
levels  for the policies uninsured people will buy through
regulated marketplaces, called exchanges, starting in 2014.
Business groups will argue for a narrow set of benefits to save
costs while consumer advocates push for more coverage.  The decision shifts the debate to statehouses and away from
the White House, and lets President  Barack Obama  say he’s giving
governors and legislatures more flexibility within their own
communities to confront rising medical costs and control changes
brought about by the 2010 health-care law.  “Obama has taken all the grief he can stand over health
care,” said  Erik Gordon , a business professor at the  University
of Michigan  in  Ann Arbor , in an e-mail “He doesn’t want it to
give the Republicans any more political ammunition. He is
passing the hot potato to the states.”  About 24 million people are projected to buy coverage
through exchanges by 2019, according to the  Congressional Budget
Office . Premiums will average $5,800 for individuals and $15,200
for families in 2016.  Similar Services  Under the new guidelines, state lawmakers must either set
coverage levels in line with widely subscribed small-business
plans in their communities, or peg them to benefits included in
their state employees’ health plan, federal employee plans or
the largest commercial managed-care plan in the state.  Generally, health plans for small businesses, state
employees and federal workers “cover similar services,”
including doctors’ visits, hospitalization and outpatient mental
health, according to a  study  conducted by the U.S. Health and
Human Services Department ahead of the Dec. 16 announcement.  Differences arise in areas such as  prescription drugs .
While they’re covered as a basic benefit by all government
employee plans, only 84 percent of small business plans include
them. The others require additional premiums, the study found.
Small business plans also don’t tend to cover dental care,
acupuncture, bariatric surgery and hearing aids, unless states
require it, the study showed. Federal plans cover those
services.  Business’ Preference  “Businesses would rather deal with states, many of whom
are far more sympathetic than Washington is to claims that high
benefits will bankrupt employers,” the University of Michigan’s
Gordon said. “Given the competition for jobs, I expect to see
regulatory arbitrage bid down required coverages,” he said.  The lack of national standards may allow some states to
skimp in areas such as maternity coverage, said Debra Ness,
president of the National Partnership for Women & Families in
 Washington , in a statement.  The administration’s ruling is “a grave disappointment”
that ignores the health-care law’s direction “to develop a
detailed package that would apply uniformly to plans across the
nation,” Ness said.  States that have delayed implementing the health-care law
have one less excuse for not moving forward, said Ethan Rome,
executive director of  Health Care for America Now , a coalition
of labor and civil rights groups that supports the statute.  Balancing Priorities  “This shifts the battle over essential benefits to state
capitals, where the insurance lobby is strongest and where it
will advocate for inadequate benefits that won’t meet the needs
of people,” Rome said. “State regulators need to have a
transparent process in making these important decisions and
should stand up for consumers.”  Neil Trautwein, a vice president at the  National Retail
Federation , heads a coalition of business groups and insurers
lobbying for a narrow coverage package.  He says both the federal and state governments need “to
develop a rule that balances state-selected and reasonably
comprehensive benefits with affordability for employers and
Individuals,” no matter which state is involved.  Rules that do otherwise “will make health coverage more
expensive for employers and individuals to purchase and make
jobs more difficult for employers to create,” he said.  Guaranteed Coverage  State officials said they are reviewing options.  “We certain appreciate the flexibility and need to
carefully examine any implications for the state before deciding
next steps,” said  Eric Brown , a spokesman for Colorado
Democratic Governor John Hickenlooper.  Ohio Governor  John Kasich , a Republican, said the
administration’s move is “very positive” because it gives
states flexibility.  The administration “can’t answer any questions and there’s
trap doors, and I don’t want to fall through any of them,”
Kasich told reporters. “The ruling on Friday was a very
positive ruling for us, and we’ll just see where we go.”  Many states already set minimum benefit levels in
regulating insurers.  Idaho , for instance, mandates insurers to
cover just 13 types of  health services  while  Rhode Island 
requires coverage of 69, according to the Council on Affordable
Health Insurance, an industry group.  The health law, though, created insurance exchanges as a
way to guarantee coverage for those who don’t have it now and
for people who find it hard to be accepted by a health plan
because of pre-existing medical conditions.  The federally mandated exchanges are central to the law’s
goal to expand coverage to as much as 95 percent of Americans.
The law, though, left open many questions involving how they
would be set up and run, opening the way for the Obama
administration to control that through regulatory guidelines.  The decision not to impose national standards is in line
with other moves by the administration this year as it develops
rules to expand coverage to a projected 32 million people.  More State Options  Regulations released by the U.S. Deparment of Health and
Human Services in July gave states wide latitude to design and
run the markets. The administration also offered conditional
certification for states that make good-faith efforts to
establish exchanges but aren’t able to meet a 2013 deadline.  HHS also issued several directives it said were aimed at
giving states more options to design their own Medicaid
programs. States and the federal government run Medicaid, with
the U.S. approving changes in eligibility standards by granting
waivers from national law. The program is among the biggest
expenses for states and also a prominent vehicle to expand
coverage to the uninsured under the law.  A February letter from the U.S. to states raised the
prospect of dropping some adults with incomes exceeding 133
percent of the federal poverty level from the program to close
budget shortages.  Still, foes of the 2010 health-care law say the moves
don’t go far enough.  The law itself is the issue, not how it is regulated, said
Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , the senior Republican on the
Finance Committee, suggesting that it will remain a key campaign
issue in the presidential elections no matter what the Obama
administration does to dim protests on specific issues.  “The framework proposed by the administration takes away
the right of individuals to chose the health care plan that best
fits their needs,” Hatch said after the administration
announced states would set benefit rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  