-- Ocado Predicts Profit Below Estimates
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2011-12-19T08:33:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/ocado-predicts-profit-below-estimates.html
Ocado Group Plc (OCDO) , the U.K.’s biggest
online-only grocer, forecast full-year profit below analysts’
estimates after sales growth slowed amid worsening delivery
times and order accuracy.  The shares fell to a record low in London after Hatfield,
England-based Ocado unexpectedly said that earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization were 27.5 million
pounds ($42.6 million) to 28.5 million pounds in the year ended
Nov. 27. That’s less than the 34.2 million-pound average
estimate of 10 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Profitability was affected by “production issues” at the
company’s Hatfield distribution center and the employment of
extra staff to increase capacity, according to Ocado, whose
shares had fallen 60 percent this year before today. The online
retailer needs to increase capacity to help fend off competition
from rivals such as Waitrose Ltd. and Tesco Plc. A second
distribution center is under construction in central  England .  “There is likely to be concern that Ocado is finding it
increasingly difficult to compete against Tesco, Waitrose,
Sainsbury and Asda,” Caroline Gulliver, an analyst at Execution
Noble, said in an e-mailed note.  The shares fell as much as 16 percent and were down 12
percent at 63 pence at 8:22 a.m. in London trading. They were
sold at 180 pence each in a July 2010 initial public offering.  Sales Growth Slows  Gross sales for the year rose 16.7 percent to 643 million
pounds, slower than the 19.5 percent growth reported by the
company for the first 36 weeks, Ocado said. Chief Financial
Officer Andrew Bracey said in September that the grocer was
targeting an “increased rate of sales” in the fourth quarter.  Ocado said 98.3 percent of items were delivered exactly as
ordered in the year, compared with 99 percent after nine months.
The statement also showed that 92.3 percent of orders were
delivered on-time or early for their one-hour slots, worse than
the 95.5 percent after nine months.  The online retailer is “disappointed” that improvements
in capacity haven’t been “as large or as early” as planned,
Chief Executive Officer Tim Steiner said in the statement.
“There is more work to be done and we are focused on delivering
capacity and sales growth in the first half of 2012.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  