-- Occupy London Fights Its Eviction in Court, Cites Inadequate Banking Rules
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2011-12-19T15:33:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/occupy-london-fights-its-eviction-in-court-cites-inadequate-banking-rules.html
Occupy London  protesters camped
outside  St. Paul’s Cathedral  are fighting a court push by the
 City of London Corporation , which oversees Britain’s main
financial district, to evict them from the property.  The City argues the encampment is blocking a public
passageway, impeding tourists from photographing the 17th
century cathedral and forcing the continued closure of nearby
Paternoster Square, where the  London Stock Exchange  is located.
The protesters claim the occupation is a human right and an
effective way to raise awareness of wrongdoing by banks.  “Freedom of expression is one of the essential foundations
of a democratic society,” the group’s lawyer,  Michael Paget ,
said in his opening statement at a trial today. The occupation
is drawing attention to “the mismanagement of the U.K. and
global economy and the structural flaws in the economy,
including the inability to properly regulate the banking
system.”  Judge Keith Lindblom said he may give an indication of his
decision by the end of the week and that he would visit the
protest site today.  More than 200 tents have clustered around the cathedral
since the middle of October, after Occupy London protesters were
denied access to land surrounding the London Stock Exchange. The
four-day trial comes after the City’s negotiations with the
protest movement last month failed to result in a deal for the
protesters to leave the area after the New Year. Demonstrators
have also occupied Finsbury Square and a nearby UBS AG building
to protest inequality.  In a separate ruling, the U.K. Court of Appeal said the
protesters should be allowed to appeal rulings in favor of UBS
that would have led to their eviction from the building near
Finsbury Square. The Swiss bank is asking the court for a ruling
to restart the process of removing the protesters from the
unoccupied building. That hearing is continuing.  The City served an eviction notice on the St. Paul’s
protesters on Nov. 16, a day after New York police in riot gear
entered Zuccotti Park in  Lower Manhattan  to remove Occupy Wall
Street protesters who had been camping there for more than eight
weeks in a demonstration that triggered others around the world.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  