-- Oil Advances as North Korea, Iran Bolster Geopolitical Tension
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2011-12-19T20:42:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/oil-rises-from-six-week-low-on-europe-meetings-middle-east-supply-concern.html
Oil rose on concern that
geopolitical tension will increase as a son of  Kim Jong Il  took
power in  North Korea  and the U.S. and its allies prepared to
discuss stronger measures against Iran.  Futures advanced 0.4 percent after the official Korean
Central News Agency said Kim Jong Un will lead the nuclear-armed
nation after the death of his father, Kim Jong Il, on Dec. 17.
Gulf Cooperation Council leaders arrived in Riyadh, Saudi
Arabia, today for a two-day meeting that may focus on actions
needed against Iran.  “Geopolitical worries are boosting the market,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge
fund that focuses on energy. “The announcement of the death of
Kim Jong Il adds to the concerns about stability. The market was
already nervous about  Iran .”  Crude oil for January delivery increased 35 cents to settle
at $93.88 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The
January contract expires tomorrow. The more actively traded
February futures rose 30 cents, or 0.3 percent, to $94.05.  Brent oil for February settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange increased 29 cents, or 0.3 percent, to
$103.64 a barrel.  Tensions on the Korean peninsula have risen since North
Korean attacks on a warship and a disputed island last year
killed 50 South Koreans. The administration of President Barack Obama, along with the  United Nations , increased sanctions after
the incidents.  ‘Wild Year’  “It’s another wild event in a wild year of news,” said
Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market strategist and founder of
Iitrader.com in  Chicago . “It’s bullish for oil prices in the
short term.”  Eleven countries including the U.S. and European and Arab
states will meet tomorrow in Rome to discuss more aggressive
tactics against Iran, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing
people it didn’t identify. In  Riyadh , Saudi Arabia’s King
Abdullah called on the Gulf Cooperation Council’s six nations to
strengthen into a “single entity” at a summit that may also
focus on unrest in  Syria .  “Tomorrow’s meeting on Iran sanctions is probably top on
people’s list of concern,” said Michael Lynch, president of
Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
Massachusetts.  ‘Much Faster Escalation’  Oil prices may surge if international sanctions halt
supplies from Iran, Bank of America Corp. analysts said. The
Persian Gulf nation is on the Strait of Hormuz, through which
one-sixth of global oil output is transported daily, according
to the U.S. Energy Department.  “Oil prices could increase by $40 a barrel should Iranian
output completely shut down,”  Francisco Blanch , the bank’s head
of commodities research in New York, said in an e-mailed report.
“A potential closure of the Strait of Hormuz could result in a
much faster oil price escalation.”  Iran is the second-largest member of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, trailing  Saudi Arabia .  Oil also rose as euro-area governments met a target for
boosting their anti-crisis war chest with a pledge to provide
150 billion euros ($195 billion) to the  International Monetary
Fund , adding to support for bond markets.  Four countries not using the euro -- the Czech Republic,
Denmark, Poland and Sweden -- also pledged to contribute,
Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker said in an e-
mailed statement after chairing a teleconference of European
Union finance ministers today.  Draghi’s Comments  Futures fell after European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said the region’s economy faces substantial risks at the
European Parliament in Brussels.  The economy “should recover, albeit very gradually, in the
course of 2012,” Draghi said. “Substantial downside risks to
the economic outlook nevertheless remain.”  In an interview with the Financial Times before he spoke at
Parliament, Draghi damped expectations that the ECB will step up
bond purchases to tame the sovereign debt crisis.  “Some of Draghi’s comments were being viewed negatively
and the market faded a little bit more,” said  Tom Bentz , a
director in  New York  with BNP Paribas Prime Brokerage Inc. “The
rally in oil can’t seem to gain any traction.”  Hedge funds  and other large speculators cut their net-long
positions, or bets that oil prices will rise, by 0.9 percent in
the week ended Dec. 13 to 200,986 in futures and options
combined, according to the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission’s Commitments of Traders report on Dec. 16  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 372,099
contracts as of 3:07 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 504,230
contracts on Dec. 16, 22 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.32 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  