-- Crude Oil Rebounds From Near Six-Week Low in New York as Equities Advance
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2011-12-19T13:13:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/oil-trades-near-six-week-low-in-new-york-as-hopes-for-europe-solution-fade.html
Oil recovered from near its lowest
in more than six weeks in  New York  as advancing equity markets
eased concern that European government measures will be unable
to stem the debt crisis.  Oil erased earlier losses of as much as 1.1 percent to
trade near $94 a barrel as the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index advanced.
European Union finance ministers will hold a conference call
today addressing a deadline for drawing additional aid and
creating new budget rules. Bank of America Corp. said an Iranian
production halt could boost prices as much as $40 a barrel.  “There are enough contradictory pressures on the oil
market to go into the holidays with a neutral position,” said
 Olivier Jakob , managing director at Petromatrix GmbH in Zug,
 Switzerland , who correctly predicted earlier this month that
prices would slide. “On the bearish side there is the risk of
European downgrades, but there’s also the risk of tougher
rhetoric against  Iran .”  Crude for January delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  was up 26 cents at $93.79 a barrel at 1:02 p.m. London
time. The contract, which expires tomorrow, fell as low as
$92.52 on Dec. 16, the lowest price since Nov. 3. The more
actively traded February futures were at $94, up 25 cents.
Prices are 2.6 percent higher this year after rising 15 percent
in 2010.  Brent oil for February settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange was at $103.97 a barrel, up 62 cents,
after declining as much as 98 cents, or 1 percent, to $102.37 a
barrel. The European benchmark contract was at a premium of
$9.97 to New York-traded West Texas Intermediate for the same
month. The front-month spread was a record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Iran Production  Oil prices  may surge by $40 a barrel if international
sanctions halt supplies from Iran, Bank of America Corp. said,
amid signs that an alliance of nations is readying tougher
measures against the Persian Gulf producer. Eleven countries in
a coalition that includes the U.S. and European and Arab states
will meet tomorrow in  Rome  to discuss harder tactics, the Wall
Street Journal reported, citing people it didn’t identify.  Euro-area finance ministers will hold a conference call at
3:30 p.m. Brussels time to discuss 200 billion euros ($260
billion) in additional funding through the  International
Monetary Fund  and the mechanics of a so-called fiscal compact
that was negotiated at a Dec. 9 summit, according to two people
familiar with the planning.  The 27 European Union member states accounted for 16
percent of global oil consumption in last year, based on BP
Plc’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  OPEC Agreement  OPEC’s 30 million-barrel-a-day oil production limit may
boost prices next year, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries is pumping
700,000 barrels a day above the target and will have to cut
output as supplies increase from Iraq and  Libya ,  David Greely ,
the bank’s head of energy research in New York, said in a report
yesterday. The 12-member group set a new output ceiling for the
first time in three years at its Dec. 14 meeting in Vienna.  Hedge-funds and other money managers cut bullish bets on
 Brent crude  by 5,654 contracts, or 6.6 percent, in the week
ended Dec. 13, according to data from ICE Futures Europe.  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 79,933 lots,
the London-based exchange said today in its weekly Commitment of
Traders report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  