-- Olympus Climbs by Limit After Report on $1.28 Billion Preferred-Share Sale
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2011-12-20T04:51:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/olympus-banks-sumitomo-said-to-back-sale-of-stake-to-strategic-partner.html
Olympus Corp. (7733)  snapped a four-day, 33
percent stock slump on reports it may replenish a $1.3 billion
hole left in its balance sheet after an accounting fraud by
selling shares to a strategic investor.  The Japanese camera maker jumped as much as 16 percent, its
maximum daily limit, after the Nikkei newspaper reported the
company hired financial advisers for a planned 100 billion yen
($1.28 billion) sale of preferred stock. Investors may include
 Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Fujifilm Holdings Corp. (4901) ,  Panasonic Corp. (6752) ,  Innovation
Network Corp. of Japan  and  Germany ’s  Siemens AG (SIE) , the report
said, without citing anyone.  Olympus President Shuichi Takayama last week said he will
consider all options to restore capital after slashing net
assets 70 percent following revelations that the company had
falsified accounts to hide investment losses for more than a
decade. Selling preference shares convertible into equity may
let the company raise funds at the same time as sidestepping
objections from some investors to a sale of common stock.  “Preferred shares are a bit better than common stock for
investors as there’s no immediate dilution, even though they may
be changed into common equity some day,” said  Mitsushige Akino ,
who oversees about $600 million in  Tokyo  at Ichiyoshi Investment
Management Co. “Also, today’s report reassured investors that
Olympus may get support from major Japanese firms and that this
may improve its governance.”  The stock reversed an earlier 3.8 percent decline to trade
150 yen, or 16 percent higher, at 1,065 yen as of 1:49 p.m. on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Olympus was the biggest gainer on
Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average, which rose 0.6
percent. The endoscope maker also had the biggest climb on the
 MSCI Asia-Pacific Index. (MXAP)   Delisting Threat  The size of the fundraising would be influenced by the
Tokyo Stock Exchange’s decision on whether to delist Olympus
following the $1.7 billion accounting fraud, the paper said.  Josh Shores, a London-based principal at Southeastern Asset
Management Inc., yesterday raised concerns that Takayama would
sell new common stock to a strategic partner. That would dilute
existing shareholders’ stakes and weaken their ability to force
a shake-up of the company’s board at a vote due in March or
April, he said.  Tokyo Stock Exchange rules permit companies to issue new
stock to a third party with a dilutive effect of as much as 25
percent without seeking shareholder approval.  Creditors led by  Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. (8316)  favor the
sale of as much as 25 percent of the Japanese camera maker to a
strategic partner, two people with direct knowledge of the
matter said. Lenders are also likely to back Olympus
management’s plan over any proposal by axed President  Michael Woodford  to revamp the board, the people said, asking not to be
identified because the issue is sensitive.  No Decision  Olympus wasn’t the source of Nikkei report, the company
said in a statement to the stock exchange today. Spokesmen at
Sony, Fujifilm and Panasonic declined to comment.  “We’re considering a wide range of measures to boost our
capital,” Tsuyoshi Kitada, a spokesman for Tokyo-based Olympus,
said yesterday. “No decision has been made on whether to form a
capital alliance with a partner or not.” Spokesmen for  Sumitomo
Mitsui  couldn’t be reached for comment.  Investors have struggled to exert influence over management
in Japan, where stocks on average trade at less than half their
value relative to revenue as those in the U.S. and  Europe . The
companies that make up Japan’s benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock
Average (NKY)  trade at an average of 0.6 times revenue, compared with
1.9 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 1.7 times for
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Severe Blow’  “Olympus should not be sold off on the cheap to anyone,”
Shores said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “If the
incumbent board is allowed to sell off the company’s
independence cheaply to protect its own interests, it will deal
a severe blow to the reputation of Japan’s capital markets.”  Southeastern is Olympus’s biggest foreign shareholder. The
Memphis, Tennessee-based fund in 2009 failed in its second
attempt to oust the president of  Nipponkoa Insurance Co. , in
which it held a stake of about 18 percent. Brandes Investment
Partners LP, Dalton Investments LLC, Steel Partners, and the
Children’s Investment Fund Management UK LLP are among overseas
investors that have sought a greater say in the management of
Japanese companies in which they invested.  Shares Extend Losses  While Olympus’s bank lenders have pledged to stand by the
company, a shareholder tie-up may be needed to ensure sufficient
capital, the people said. Several companies and private-equity
firms have approached banks about the possibility of taking a
stake or some other type of capital alliance, the people said.  Fifty-three corporations, including medical equipment maker
 Terumo Corp. (4543) ,  Sharp Corp . and  Casio Computer Co. (6952) , together hold
about 13 percent of Olympus, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Overseas shareholders have said Olympus’s current
management shouldn’t be allowed to play a role in determining a
new board.  Takayama last week backed away from the findings of an
independent panel on the cover-up, which called for a purge of
all executives involved as well as the board that failed to act
on warnings from auditors.  Shareholders will vote on new management in March or April,
Olympus said last week. Takayama said the replacement of the
entire board may not be necessary.  Olympus still faces criminal probes and a review by the
Tokyo Stock Exchange that may see it ejected from the bourse.  Katsunori Nagayasu, chairman of the Japanese Bankers
Association, said last week lenders will continue to support
Olympus and expressed hope it remains listed. Nagayasu is also
president of Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc.,  Japan ’s
biggest publicly traded bank and one of Olympus’s main lenders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Richardson at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net  