-- Hong Kong Unemployment Rate Rises to 3.4% on European Crisis
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2011-12-19T08:53:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/hong-kong-unemployment-rate-rises-to-3-4-on-european-crisis-1-.html
Hong Kong ’s unemployment rate rose
for a straight second month from the lowest level in 13 years,
adding to risks of a recession in the city.  The  rate  for the three months ended November was 3.4
percent, up from the 3.3 percent in the period through October,
the government said on its website today. That was higher than
the median estimate of nine economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg
News. In the third quarter, the rate was at 3.2 percent, the
lowest level since 1998.  Employers will remain “cautious” on hiring as Hong Kong
will be affected by the deepening European debt crisis and slow
growth in the U.S., Matthew Cheung, the city’s labor secretary,
said in today’s release.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Macquarie Group
Ltd. are among banks cutting jobs in the city as investment and
corporate finance activity slows, while rising visitors from
mainland  China  are boosting demand for workers in retail.  “Hong Kong’s jobless rate will gradually edge up in the
coming months as employers in the trade, financial services and
real-estate services may see pressure to cut workers on the
deteriorating external environment,” Lu Jiang, an economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Hong Kong, said before the report.
“Meanwhile, solid retail sales driven by an influx of Chinese
visitors will help to keep the labor market, particularly in
retail and accommodation sectors, largely resilient.”  Lu expects the  unemployment rate  may rise to 3.8 percent by
the end of 2012.  Retail sales grew 23 percent in October from a year earlier
as Chinese visitor arrivals surged 25 percent, according to
government data and the Hong Kong Tourism Board.  HSBC, Hong Kong’s biggest bank by deposits, will cut 3,000
jobs over the next three years in the city, as part of its plan
to reduce costs globally, the bank said in September. Macquarie
closed part of its global equity derivatives operations in the
city, people with knowledge of the matter said last month.  Recession is “possible” for the city on deteriorating
exports, Financial Secretary  John Tsang  said this month. The
city narrowly dodged a recession by growing 0.1 percent in the
third quarter from the previous period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  