-- Moody’s Downgrades Chaoda for Third Time, Will Withdraw Rating
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2011-12-19T11:31:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/moody-s-downgrades-chaoda-for-third-time-will-withdraw-rating.html
Chaoda Modern Agriculture Holdings
Ltd. (682) , suspended from  Hong Kong  trading since September, had its
 credit rating  downgraded for the third time in less than three
months by Moody’s Investors Service, which said it will withdraw
the assessment because of insufficient information.  Moody’s trimmed Chaoda’s corporate family rating to Caa1
from B3, according to an e-mailed statement today. The rating
will be withdrawn because the Chinese vegetable supplier “has
insufficient or otherwise inadequate information to support the
maintenance of the rating,” Moody’s analyst Jiming Zou said in
the statement, without giving the time for the removal.  Chaoda delayed its earnings announcement in September to
audit its accounts after a report from Anonymous Analytics
questioned the finances. Chairman Kwok Ho, Chief Financial
Officer Andy Chan, and Fidelity Management’s George Stairs were
accused by Hong Kong’s financial secretary of  insider trading ,
the Market Misconduct Tribunal said on Sept. 28.  Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services lowered Chaoda’s
corporate rating to B- from BB- on Nov. 25 and put the company
on negative credit watch.  Trading Halt  The trading halt since Sept. 26 and the delay in its
results release increased the likelihood of an accelerated
repayment of Chaoda’s $200 million convertible bonds and
reflects the uncertainty over Chaoda having sufficient cash to
settle the debt, Zou said. Holders of the bonds can accelerate
repayment if the stock is suspended for more than 60 days,
Moody’s said in a separate report on Oct. 7.  Chaoda is due to hold an annual general meeting on Dec. 30,
at which the audited financial statement will be considered, the
company said on Nov. 28.  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , the Chinese timber company fending off
fraud allegations, defaulted on two sets of bond payments after
its biggest shareholders urged the company to meet its
commitments.  The timber company received notices of default on Dec. 16
on senior notes due 2014 and 2017 after failing to publish its
third-quarter financial results in a “timely manner,” the
company said today in a statement. It is seeking waivers from
bondholders, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  