-- Thoroughbred Sex-Rules Opponents Told to Set Up Rival Horse-Racing Circuit
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2011-12-19T05:57:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/thoroughbred-sex-rules-opponents-told-to-set-up-rival-horse-racing-circuit.html
Bruce McHugh, the former  Sydney Turf
Club  chairman who sued to abolish rules requiring thoroughbreds
to physically mate to produce offspring eligible for racing, can
start a rival circuit open to horses bred through artificial
insemination, supporters of current regulations say.  “Anyone has the ability to set up an AI book,” James
Emmett, lawyer for  Thoroughbred Breeders Australia , said in his
closing statement in Sydney Federal Court, urging Justice Alan
Robertson, who will rule on the case, to dismiss the suit.
Robertson reserved his decision at the end of the trial today.  McHugh is challenging the multi-billion dollar industry,
claiming rules prohibiting thoroughbreds bred through artificial
insemination illegally curb competition, benefiting owners of
the world’s most-prized horses, including Dubai’s ruler Sheik
Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum, who can afford to send so-called
shuttle stallions around the globe to breed with mares.  A court victory for McHugh could make  Australia  a trend-
setter, tempting stud book operators around the world to follow
its lead in allowing the registration of offspring from
artificially inseminated mares and saving money in the process,
breeders have said.  McHugh can put A$1 million ($992,000) into a prize pool for
a race and open it to horses bred through artificial
insemination, Emmett said, arguing there’s nothing to forbid him
from doing that.  ‘Very Attractive’  “That would be very attractive,” the lawyer said, noting
most thoroughbred races in Australia have prize pools in the
“very low six-figure range.”  There are 374 race clubs in Australia and 360 race tracks,
Emmett said. Some of the tracks are already open to quarter
horses, which can be bred through artificial insemination, he
said.  Allowing artificial insemination also threatens to reduce
the diversity of sire lines, as brood mare owners will flock to
the same group of stallions, Emmett said.  “AI would decimate the thoroughbred population,”  Carrie
Brogden , who with her Australian husband Craig runs a
thoroughbred farm in Lexington,  Kentucky , wrote in an e-mail.
“The ramifications of this are staggering.”  Should Australia allow artificial insemination, the race
rankings, which determine a thoroughbred’s rankings
internationally, would be downgraded or eliminated, Emmett said.  “You can’t sensibly assess a horse’s ranking in races
involving thoroughbreds” and horses bred through AI, the lawyer
said. It would be like comparing thoroughbreds and camels, he
said.  Mating Fees  Fees  for a mating episode have reached as much as $330,000,
according to breednet.com, a website on the breeding industry in
Australia, the world’s second-biggest thoroughbred racing
jurisdiction behind the U.S.  The vast majority of breeders in Australia are small
operators, who have an average of three mares and whose voice is
being ignored, Ian Tonking, lawyer for McHugh, said during the
trial. They would benefit from not having to ship their mares to
stud farms and gaining access to the sperm of top-rated horses
worldwide, he said.  To be eligible to race, thoroughbreds must be registered in
a recognized stud book. The Australian  Stud Book  dates back to
1878, when the first one was compiled by William C. Yuille,
sporting editor of the Melbourne Weekly Times newspaper,
according to the organization’s website. The book preserves an
official record and ensures the integrity of the thoroughbred
breeding industry, the organization said.  Racing associations in other countries also keep stud books.
More than 70 stud book authorities are members of the
 International Stud Book Committee .  Electronic Tags  The prohibition of any form of artificial insemination for
thoroughbreds has been in place in Australia since at least 1949,
to prevent fraud and reduce errors in the registration of
thoroughbreds, Tonking said. Since horses are now electronically
tagged and identified by their DNA, that argument no longer has
any justification, he said.  The International Stud Book Committee has always recognized
that a challenge to the ban on artificial insemination may occur,
it said. Lifting the ban wouldn’t be in the interest of the
industry, the group said on its website.  The case is Between Bruce McHugh and the Australian Jockey
Club Ltd. NSD1187/2009. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  