-- Osborne Will Promise U.K. Bank Legislation for Vickers Proposals by 2015
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2011-12-19T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/osborne-to-pledge-u-k-bank-legislation-for-vickers-plan-by-2015.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will pledge today to pass laws by 2015 to force banks to
separate investment and consumer businesses, giving full backing
to the recommendations of the Independent Commission on Banking.  Osborne will promise that new rules will be operational no
later than 2019, as he seeks to solve what he has called the
“British problem” of having to use taxpayers’ money to bail
out the financial sector. The solution proposed three months ago
by the panel led former Bank of England Chief Economist  John Vickers  is for banks to build firebreaks between their consumer
and investment operations and boost the amount of loss-absorbing
equity and debt they hold to between 17 percent and 20 percent.  “The government is going to launch this initiative on the
banks, accepting in full the Vickers commission,” Business
Secretary  Vince Cable , who helps Osborne set bank policy, told
BBC television yesterday. “We’re going to proceed with the
separation of the banks, the casinos and the business-lending
parts of the banks.”  Osborne will outline to lawmakers in London this afternoon
the details and timetable of how the government will implement
Vickers’s Sept. 12 proposals amid complaints from lenders that
the new rules will hit their profitability. The government’s
costs and liabilities for bailing out troubled banks have
reached 850 billion pounds ($1.3 trillion) since 2007.  Spending Cuts  That’s put pressure on Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
government, which is also driving through the biggest public-
spending cuts in more than half a century because of the
financial crisis, to convince voters that it can tame banks’
excessive risk taking and control high pay in the City,  London ’s
financial district, as  living standards  elsewhere in the country
decline.  “This is an acid test of the government’s willingness to
take on the vested interests of the City in the wider public
interest,” David Hillman, a spokesman for the Robin Hood Tax
campaign, a group of charities including Oxfam that want a tax
on financial transactions, said in an e-mail.  The Vickers proposals are part of the government’s effort
to prevent another financial crisis and shield the taxpayer from
future bailouts.  “We cannot risk having a repetition of that financial
catastrophe that we had three years ago,” Cable said. “We
can’t have a position where the banks are too big to fail.”  Chris Leslie, who speaks for the opposition  Labour Party  on
financial matters, called for annual progress updates by Vickers
on whether the government is implementing his proposals
properly.  Bank Regulation  Separately, members of both houses of  Parliament  said today
the government “must significantly amend” its draft Financial
Services Bill, which returns powers to the  Bank of England  to
police banks.  In a report published in London, a committee of lawmakers
said the central bank needs to become more accountable to
Parliament and should hand power to the chancellor as soon as
taxpayers’ money is needed in any future bank rescues.  Vickers proposed that the units inside the firewalls will
handle all checking accounts, mortgages, credit cards and
lending to small- and medium-sized companies. As much as a third
of U.K. bank assets, or about 2.3 trillion pounds, will be
included, according to the recommendations.  Trading and investment banking activities will be outside
the firewalls, and  Standard & Poor’s  said Sept. 14 those
elements of U.K. banks face credit-ratings cuts as they won’t be
able to count on government support.  Northern Rock   Osborne is also looking for other ways to reduce support
for the banking sector. Billionaire  Richard Branson  agreed to
buy Northern Rock Plc from the government last month for 747
million pounds, marking the first sale of a bank bailed out by
the government since the financial crisis.  The sale of Northern Rock at a loss to taxpayers, who spent
1.4 billion pounds to recapitalize the bank in 2008, raised
questions about whether Osborne would be prepared to dispose of
larger stakes in  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  under similar conditions.  The government injected 65.8 billion pounds of capital into
RBS and Lloyds during the financial crisis, giving it stakes of
83 percent and 41 percent respectively. The shares have since
declined, leaving a paper loss for the U.K. of more than 39
billion pounds on the two holdings.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Britain’s biggest bank, has described
the estimated $2.5 billion joint cost of the Vickers proposals
and of the levy on bank balance sheets that Osborne introduced
last year as “too high.”  If the commission’s proposals are implemented as they
stand, HSBC may need to sell about $55 billion of loss-absorbing
debt which “we do not need” at an annual cost of about $2.1
billion, Finance Director Iain Mackay said on a call with
journalists on Nov. 9. Added to that, the lender estimates that
the bank levy will cost about $400 million a year for its
overseas operations.  RBS Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  said in October
the proposed firebreaks will disadvantage U.K. banks if they are
“not replicated anywhere in the world.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  