-- Osborne Seeks to Assuage U.K. Voters With Scaling-Back of RBS
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2011-12-20T00:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/osborne-backs-rbs-investment-bank-cuts-demands-capital-increase.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  sought to reassure voters yesterday that the U.K.
government is acting to prevent future bank bailouts when he
backed a planned scaling-back of  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc (RBS) ’s investment operations.  RBS’s plan to wind down or sell part of its investment
bank, which has already cut its balance sheet in half, should go
further, allowing the Edinburgh-based lender to return to full
private ownership, the chancellor said, as he announced how he
plans to implement recommendations of the Independent Commission
on Banking to make the industry safer.  “RBS should emerge a stronger, safer bank able to maintain
lending to businesses and consumers and which in time can be
returned to full private-sector ownership,” Osborne told
lawmakers in  London . “The British people are angry about what
happened in our banks.”  While yesterday’s announcement won’t speed up the eventual
sale of the bank, it’s part of Osborne’s plan for the government
to “exit” from a banking industry that has received support
and guarantees of 850 million pounds ($1.3 trillion) since 2008.
The opposition  Labour Party  accused Osborne of caving in to
lobbying over the amount of loss-absorbing capital banks should
hold.  Implementation Timetable  Osborne vowed to put forward legislation in the first few
months of next year to implement the plan by the ICB, headed by
 John Vickers , to force banks to separate investment and consumer
businesses. The law will be changed by 2015 and the new rules
will be operational no later than 2019, he said in an effort to
solve what he’s called the “British problem” of having to use
taxpayers’ money to bail out the financial sector.  The solution proposed three months ago by the panel led by
Vickers, a former  Bank of England  chief economist, is for banks
to build firebreaks between their consumer and investment
operations and boost the amount of loss-absorbing equity and
debt they hold.  Osborne told lawmakers that the paring-down of RBS’s
investment operations will let the U.K.’s biggest state-
controlled bank concentrate on lending to individuals and
companies at home, reducing its riskiest activities that require
greater capital to make them safe.  “RBS itself has made significant changes since 2008
including reducing the size of its investment bank by half,”
Osborne told the House of Commons. “I believe RBS needs to go
further and the management agrees. We are the largest
shareholder.”  Revenue Drop  RBS Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester , 51, has said
the investment bank is unsustainable at its current size because
of regulatory change proposed by the Vickers commission and
because of shifts in investor demand. The unit, which employs
about 19,000 people in total, reported a 29 percent revenue drop
in the third quarter, weighing on the ability of the whole bank
to be returned to private hands.  Having a smaller investment bank diminishes the fallout
Osborne faces from voters angry at the bonuses paid to top
bankers as he drives through the biggest public-spending cuts in
more than half a century because of the financial crisis. Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s government has been struggling to
convince voters that it can tame banks’ excessive risk taking
and control high pay in the City, London’s financial district,
as  living standards  elsewhere decline.  Balls Criticism  Ed Balls , who speaks for the main opposition Labour Party
on Treasury matters, said Osborne had given in to pressure from
banks to water down Vickers’s call for lenders to be able to
absorb losses equivalent to as much as 20 percent of risk-
weighted assets.  Osborne said non-U.K. assets would be exempted where banks
“can demonstrate they do not pose a threat to U.K. taxpayers.”  “Can he explain why he is deciding to water down the
Vickers proposal by not applying this rule to their full global
balance sheets?” Balls said. “Is the chancellor sure this will
not leave taxpayers exposed?”  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s largest bank by market value,
may escape $1.5 billion of additional costs, avoiding as much as
75 percent of the $2.1 billion the lender said it would cost,
according to Arun Melmane, a banking analyst at Investec
Securities in London. HSBC and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , London-
based banks that make most of their profit in  Asia , have been
urged by shareholders to consider leaving because of high costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  