-- How ‘Mandate’ Became Republican Candidates’ Scarlet Letter: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2011-12-19T00:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/how-mandate-became-republican-candidates-scarlet-letter-view.html
Absurdly, a central issue in the
Republican presidential primary campaign is not so much the
“individual mandate” for health care as which candidates once
supported it.  Individual mandates are a requirement that every person
carry health insurance -- self-paid, paid by an employer or paid
by the government -- and there is nothing heinous about them.
What this dispute illustrates is the unflagging opposition that
Republican politicians have for President  Barack Obama , whose
health-care plan features an individual mandate.  Individual mandates were a Republican idea. They bubbled
out of the conservative  Heritage Foundation  in the late 1980s
and were adopted by many Republicans -- including  Newt Gingrich 
-- as an answer to a plan advanced by the Clinton administration
(and known as Hillarycare because then-first lady  Hillary Clinton  was in charge of producing it). Back then, in the early
1990s, Hillarycare was tarred as socialized medicine ( it wasn’t )
while individual mandates were presented as the free-market
alternative.  Individual mandates are, in fact, the only practical
alternative to a “single payer” (i.e., government-run) health-
care system. That’s why Republicans supported them back in the
Hillarycare days, and why we support them now. Without
individual mandates, private insurance can’t possibly work. Why?
Unless they are required to do so, young and healthy people
won’t buy insurance until they need it. This leads to “ adverse
selection ”: a vicious circle in which healthy people leave the
pool, so those remaining are sicker than average and therefore
cost more than average, rates go up, more people leave the pool,
and so on.  Character Issue  None of this is to say that individual mandates will work.
You can buy health insurance only if someone is willing to sell
it to you at a price you can afford. A necessary corollary of
individual mandates, therefore, is a requirement -- also part of
the new law -- that insurers not discriminate on the basis of a
“pre-existing condition.” But requiring coverage is not the same
as requiring coverage at a price.  Republicans, however, aren’t arguing the pros and cons of
an individual mandate (although that would be more useful). At
the  candidates’ debate  Dec. 10 in  Des Moines , it was all about
who supported what and when. Governor  Rick Perry  of  Texas 
repeatedly accused former Governor  Mitt Romney  of Massachusetts
of supporting an individual mandate. He said to Romney, “The
fact of the matter is, you’re for the individual mandate.”  Of course he’s not. None of those Republicans on that stage
-- least of all Romney, with his legendarily flexible views --
has a secret hankering for individual mandates, now that they’ve
become a hot potato. Under any of the Republican candidates, the
U.S. would be safe from the individual mandate peril for at
least four years. The issue has become the character of the
candidates. Especially in this day of easy Googling, it’s pretty
brazen to claim to have held a certain view on an issue when you
actually held the opposite.  Two of the Republican candidates -- Romney and Gingrich --
stand accused of having supported individual mandates. Romney,
as governor, campaigned for and signed a bill that included
individual mandates. Subsequently -- no doubt never dreaming
that this would become a huge campaign liability -- he urged
other states to follow the  Massachusetts  example. (He says he
wasn’t urging the Massachusetts model, including mandates, on
them; he was just urging them to experiment. Clearly not true.)
Gingrich, in Congress and after, supported the  Heritage
Foundation  model as a free-market alternative to Hillarycare.  Nonsense and Bromides  Romney’s defense is that (a) the  Massachusetts law  only
affected the 8 percent of the population who didn’t have health
insurance, and left the 92 percent who did unaffected; and (b)
he believes that health-care policy should be up to the states
and has always opposed a federal mandate. The first argument is
nonsense and doesn’t distinguish the Massachusetts plan from
Obama’s at all. In fact, his contention that it does is an
insult to the intelligence of the voters. Only people without
insurance have to certify that they have insurance? Please. The
Massachusetts law requires everybody to certify that he or she
carries insurance, and imposes a stiff fine (just like Obama’s
plan) on those who can’t or won’t certify that they are insured.  As for the second point, other than offering some bromides
about how states are different from one another, Romney has
never explained why a state-imposed mandate is OK with him but a
federal mandate is not. In fact, Romney -- having flipped on
this issue -- characteristically goes to the opposite extreme: A
federal mandate is not merely impermissible, but would be a
disaster and must be repealed ASAP. Is there something about the
people of Massachusetts that makes providing health care for
them fundamentally different from providing it for the people
of, say,  New Hampshire ? Romney’s rationale reeks of ex-post-
facto.  Gingrich’s defense is somewhat better. He said in the Dec.
10 debate that it all goes back to Hillarycare. “Virtually every
conservative saw the mandate as a less dangerous future than
what Hillary was trying to do. … I frankly was floundering,” he
said, grabbing onto the Heritage plan as a life buoy. Only after
the Clinton plan was defeated did he start to discover problems
with mandates, including the problem that they are “clearly
unconstitutional.”  The chronology is a bit suspicious -- as recently as May
Gingrich was supporting something that sounded a lot like a
mandate, and he didn’t turn decisively against them until it
became clear they were political poison. The  Supreme Court  will
soon give us an answer to the constitutional question. But one
reason we’re skeptical about the argument that the individual
mandate for health care is unconstitutional is the way this
radical re-interpretation of the Constitution became “clear” to
so many conservatives so suddenly.  To repeat: This dispute is not about health care. It is
about character and honesty. Perry is merely missing the point.
Gingrich is at best disingenuous. Romney, meanwhile, is in two-
plus-two-equals-five territory.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 