-- Paul’s Raw Milk Freedom Pitch Reflects Offbeat Campaign on Rise
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2011-12-19T15:56:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/paul-s-raw-milk-freedom-pitch-reflects-offbeat-campaign-on-rise.html
When about 500 voters packed into a
New Hampshire town hall last week to hear  Ron Paul  speak, they
saved their biggest applause for something no other Republican
presidential candidate is talking about.  “I would like to restore your right to drink raw milk
anytime you like!” Paul said to loud and sustained cheers in
the historic Peterborough Town House.  It was an emblematic moment for Paul’s campaign, which is
powered by his call for slashing federal government and
expanding personal liberties, including the freedom to drink
unpasteurized milk that the U.S. government brands “unsafe.”  “We’re fanatics,” said 24-year-old Tristan Contas of
Durham, New Hampshire, a recent college graduate who is planning
to spend the week before the state’s primary volunteering for
Paul in a youth-driven push the campaign is organizing. “Young
people don’t like people telling them what to do -- it’s a
certain rebellion against the authority that is our government -
- and Dr. Paul really speaks to that.”  Paul, 76, has attained cult-like status in his third run
for the presidency. He is gaining in Republican  primary polls  in
large part because of his penchant for saying things no one else
in his party dares to, and not just about dairy products. He
advocates auditing and then scrapping the  Federal Reserve ,
withdrawing all U.S. troops from overseas war zones, and cutting
$1 trillion in  government spending  in one year, including
closing five federal agencies.  Different President  “I would be a different kind of president. I wouldn’t be
looking for more power. Everybody wants to be a powerful
executive and run things. I, as a president, wouldn’t want to
run the world,” Paul said in a Fox News debate on Dec. 15.  An unorthodox message isn’t the only way Paul’s campaign is
a world apart from that of his rivals. The eldest candidate in
the race, his support includes legions of students and young
professionals who provide a hipster vibe -- from the raw milk
sometimes found in the refrigerator at the  New Hampshire 
campaign headquarters in Concord to Paul’s appearances and
frequent mentions on  Jon Stewart ’s “The  Daily Show ” on  Comedy
Central .  His political ads have received top reviews, in part
because they are different from the predictable schoolroom or
flag-filled settings. One  commercial  in Iowa is set to hard-rock
music reminiscent of a monster truck rally and portrays Paul as
a “big dog” with bite to match his bark, while the other
candidates are “whimpering like little Shih Tzus.”  Staying on Message  “He’s been on message for what, now, about 30 years?”
said Brian Vaillancourt, 48, an undecided independent voter who
attended the Peterborough town hall. “His position is
fortuitous because of the economic situation. We’re in this mess
now, and he’s the only one who’s been warning about it and
focusing on it for all this time. The brutal history and
simplicity of his plan is appealing.”  Polls indicate it’s a message that is resonating with more
Republican voters and giving Paul a chance to score an upset win
in the Jan. 3  Iowa  caucuses that begin the nominating process.
And, even with the unusual outward trappings, Paul has built a
strong foundation around his campaign with money, advisers and a
voter-turnout organizing effort that will be implemented by his
devoted followers.  Writing Him Off  His views are also a reason some voters write Paul off as
unelectable. Everywhere Paul goes, they question him on his
agenda of slashing military spending, worrying aloud that it
could weaken the nation. Vaillancourt asked Paul whether he
believed his agenda was “actionable” given partisan divisions
in Congress.  “People are listening right now more than they ever have
before,” Paul responded. “I’ve been talking about this for a
long time, and it’s just in the last couple years that all of a
sudden something is happening in this country.”  Republican strategists can see Paul doing well in Iowa and
remaining in the race for months. Ultimately, they conclude he
is incapable of winning the party’s nomination, in large part
because he champions ending U.S. involvement in conflicts
abroad.  “It’s a bridge too far for a libertarian who’s so far out
of synch with the foreign policy of the traditional  Republican
Party ,” said Republican strategist Richard Viguerie, who said
Paul’s campaign appeals to a growing segment of the party’s
grassroots and fiscally conservative independents because he is
“speaking truth to power.”  ‘Propaganda’  Still Viguerie, who worked on Paul’s earliest congressional
campaign and is uncommitted in the presidential contest, said of
Paul’s agenda: “I don’t think, frankly, the party is ready for
that yet.”  Paul dismissed such talk last week as “propaganda.”
“They don’t want me to win, is why they say, ‘He can’t win,’
because they’re fearful that I would take on all the special
interests,” Paul told reporters after a campaign stop at the
Homestead Grocery & Deli in Amherst, New Hampshire.  For now, he’s making the naysayers a selling point for his
bid. In a fundraising appeal to supporters Dec. 16 -- the latest
of his so-called “money bombs” that raise large amounts of
campaign cash in one concentrated time period -- he urged his
backers to “shock the world” and help him achieve results in
Iowa and New Hampshire that “will bring the political
establishment to its knees.”  Outspending Rivals  They responded: Paul reached his goal of $4 million. His
campaign reported having raised $12.8 million and having $3.7
million in cash as of Sept. 30, the date of his last Federal
Election Commission filing. That made him the third best
fundraiser in the primary, ranking behind former Massachusetts
Governor Mitt Romney and Texas Governor  Rick Perry . About 40
percent of that total came from money bombs, a technique he
mastered during his 2008 run.  As of Dec. 16, Paul’s campaign had spent about $1.1 million
on  television advertising  so far this year, second only to
Perry, who had invested about $1.6 million in ads, according to
data compiled by CMAG/Kantar Media, a New York-based company
that tracks the spending. Paul’s total was more than twice what
Romney had spent and more than 10 times the amount another
competitor, former House speaker  Newt Gingrich , had devoted to
TV ads.  Another Paul campaign advantage: a base of supporters
that’s unlikely to desert him for one of his rivals.  “When we get people, we tend to keep them, because once
you get to know him and know his background and record, it’s
very different from anyone else out there,” said New Hampshire
State Senator Jim Forsythe, who is co-chairing Paul’s campaign
in the state. “We’re steadily gaining ground.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  