-- Payroll Processors Fume as Congress Fiddles on Tax-Cut Plan
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2011-12-20T16:44:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/payroll-processors-fume-as-congress-fiddles-on-tax-cut-extension.html
Payroll processors are warning that
a two-month payroll  tax-cut  extension passed by the  U.S. Senate 
would be difficult to implement.  Payroll companies can react quickly to a yearlong extension
for the first paycheck of 2012 or adjust the second paycheck to
correct problems, said Pete Isberg, president of the National
Payroll Reporting Consortium, an industry group.  Payroll 
providers underscore that they don’t like a second consecutive
year of December tax law changes or the Senate-backed two-month
extension of the tax cut that could create unprecedented
complications.  “Payroll people feel like their concerns are not heard at
the congressional level sometimes,” said Mike O’Toole, who
oversees government relations at the American Payroll
Association. “Or else, Congress wouldn’t even consider
something like a two-month extension that in the end is going to
cost companies more money to pay for reprogramming systems.”  The Treasury Department said it would help to make the two-
month plan workable. “It is feasible to implement the
bipartisan Senate bill, and the Treasury Department will work
with employers to ensure the smoothest possible
implementation,” Jenni LeCompte, a department spokeswoman, said
in an e-mail.  In a typical year, the 12.4 percent payroll tax that funds
Social Security is split evenly between employers and employees.
For 2011, in a tax law signed by President  Barack Obama  on Dec.
17, 2010, employees pay 4.2 percent while employers continue to
pay 6.2 percent.  Wage Base Cap  The wage base for the tax is capped at a level adjusted
annually for inflation. In 2012, the tax won’t be assessed for
wages exceeding $110,100.  Allowing the payroll tax cut to expire would hurt  consumer
spending  and confidence, said  Joel Naroff , president of Naroff
Economic Advisors in Holland,  Pennsylvania .  “Congress would once again be placing the recovery at risk
by playing the political games they seem to enjoy playing,” he
wrote in an e-mail yesterday.  Obama pushed to lower the tax rate on the employees’ side
to 3.1 percent for 2012 and expand a variation of the tax cut to
employers.  On Dec. 13, the  House of Representatives  passed a bill to
extend the expiring 4.2 percent rate for all of 2012. For an
individual earning $50,000 in 2012, the savings would amount to
$1,000 over the course of the year, compared with the regular
6.2 percent tax.  A Seamless Change  Payroll companies say the yearlong change could happen
seamlessly even if Congress waits to pass a 2012 extension until
the last days of 2011.  “The simple rate change is really a layup for us,” said
Frank Fiorille, director of risk management at  Paychex Inc. (PAYX) ,
which handles payroll processing for 564,000 small and medium-
sized employers. “In fact, we can go right down to the last
hour to get it done and have it work pretty effectively.”  On Dec. 17, the Senate passed a two-month extension of the
4.2 percent rate.  House Republicans  have objected to the Senate
plan and were citing Isberg’s analysis yesterday.  The Senate added a twist to the extension, only allowing
the first $18,350 of wages to be taxed at the lower rate. That’s
one-sixth of the $110,100 annual limit. The provision was
designed to prevent the benefits from flowing to high-income
workers who would be paid more than $18,350 in the first two
months of the year.  Without that $18,350 cap, someone earning wages of more
than $660,600 would be able to get the full year’s benefit of
the tax cut before the end of February.  Limiting Reduction  The legislation also limits workers who could otherwise
shift the timing of their income to take advantage of the lower
rate in the first two months of 2012. More than 10 percent of
the workforce will reach the $18,350 limit, Isberg wrote.  The two-month proposal would cause logistical problems,
said Isberg, who works at  Automatic Data Processing Inc. (ADP)  but
wasn’t speaking for the company.  “System-wise, it would cause more problems than if nothing
were done,” O’Toole said.  Isberg’s group sent lawmakers a letter yesterday warning
that there is “insufficient lead time” to implement the
separate limit for January and February, which would require
significant programming changes.  The approach, he wrote, “could create substantial
problems, confusion and costs affecting a significant percentage
of U.S. employers and employees.”  Easier to Implement  Instead, Isberg wrote, enacting the 4.2 percent rate
retroactively during 2012 would be easier to implement, because
many payroll systems self-correct when tax rates change.  Fiorille, of Rochester, New York-based Paychex, said the
$18,350 cap would create a new wrinkle that would cause
difficulty and extra work during the payroll industry’s busy
season.  “We’ll do it,” he said. “We always get it done.”  Intuit Inc., which makes QuickBooks accounting software for
small businesses, would be able to update its system quickly
once it receives the necessary information from the  Internal
Revenue Service , Sharna Brockett, a public relations manager for
the company, said in an e-mailed statement.  “Regardless of the outcome, any changes should have
minimal effect on our customers and their ability to process
payroll with the latest  tax rate ,” Brockett said.  Smaller Businesses  Smaller businesses that use off-the-shelf software or
prepare pay stubs by hand would also face difficulty complying
with late changes.  “It’s a complication in the employer’s life and I think
the smaller employers are the ones who are going to feel the
confusion more directly,” said Abe Schneier, a senior technical
manager at the American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants in Washington.  People who work for themselves and pay both the employer
and employee sides of the tax will have trouble ensuring they
make the correct quarterly estimated tax payments, he said.  Schneier said he thought that large payroll providers would
face complications, though would largely be able to manage the
changes.  Congress is reprising its last-minute tax legislating from
last year. In December 2010, the income tax brackets also were
in flux because Congress was debating the extension of the 2001
and 2003 tax cuts.  “That was pretty seamless,” Isberg said. “It was a lot
of work on short notice, but it got done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  