-- Congress Set for Payroll-Tax Fight as Republicans Balk at Deal
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2011-12-19T15:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/payroll-tax-cut-in-limbo-as-u-s-lawmakers-brace-for-fiscal-policy-fight.html
Congress is preparing for a final
fight over fiscal policy this year, with the fate of a  payroll 
 tax cut  for 160 million U.S. workers on the line, after House
Republicans balked at a deal worked out in the Senate.  The  House of Representatives  returns to Washington today to
either change a Senate-passed bill extending the  tax cut  through
February or seek a House-Senate meeting to resolve differences
between the two chambers. The Senate passed its plan by 89-10
two days ago. The two-percentage-point cut in the payroll tax
will expire Dec. 31 if Congress doesn’t agree to extend it.  “Two months is just kicking the can down the road,” House
Speaker  John Boehner  said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” yesterday.
“The American people are tired of that. I think -- frankly, I’m
tired of it.”  House Republicans  were surprised that Senate Republicans
led by  Kentucky ’s  Mitch McConnell , who have the procedural
ability to block Democratic legislation, didn’t get a better
deal, said Representative Jack Kingston, a Georgia Republican.  “People were flabbergasted this was all the stand-up
Republicans could give us,” Kingston said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “We thought McConnell was hanging out for
something stronger.” Republican lawmakers wanted to include
changes to the unemployment insurance program, he said.  Partisan Brinkmanship  The showdown over the payroll-tax cut is the latest
partisan congressional standoff that lawmakers have taken to the
brink this year. The Republican-controlled House, spurred by 87
new members, many elected with Tea Party support, clashed with
President  Barack Obama  and the Democratic-controlled Senate over
spending and the federal debt limit. The agreements reached have
left both sides unsatisfied.  If Congress can’t agree, workers will see their take-home
pay decrease in January, benefits will begin disappearing for
the long-term unemployed and doctors who care for Medicare
patients will experience a 27 percent cut in reimbursements.  “This is entirely on Speaker Boehner and the House
leadership,” White House communications director  Dan Pfeiffer 
said on MSNBC today, calling the Ohio Republican “the one
person standing in the way of this tax cut for millions of
Americans.”  Senate leaders attempted Dec. 16 to negotiate a yearlong
extension of the payroll tax cut and other expiring provisions
after the House passed a $202.4 billion bill on Dec. 13. Those
talks collapsed because they couldn’t agree on how to pay the
cost of the proposal.  Pipeline Decision  Instead, Senate Democratic and Republican leaders agreed on
the $33 billion, two-month stopgap extension that included
Republican-backed language requiring Obama to make a decision
within 60 days on a permit for TransCanada Corp.’s Keystone XL
pipeline.  House Republicans’ irritation with the Senate has been
growing all year, Kingston said.  “You have serious reformers in the Republican conference”
who are frustrated by the inability to advance their agenda in
the series of spending compromises reached this year, Kingston
said. Lawmakers told leaders on a Dec. 17 conference call that
“we will be here over Christmas, if that’s what it takes,” he
said.  Democrats seized on the Republican complaints and attempted
to blame them for the tax cut’s potential expiration.  “We can work on a one-year extension, but let’s pass this
right now,” Pfeiffer said today on  MSNBC , referring to the two-
month extension. In the House, “virtually every Democrat’s
going to support this,” he said, citing House Democratic leader
 Nancy Pelosi  of  California .  ‘Couple Dozen’ Needed  “You only need a couple dozen Republicans” in the House
to add their vote of support, he said. “I found it
inconceivable that you can’t get a couple dozen Republicans to
vote for a tax cut for the middle class.”  House Republicans’ reaction surprised White House
officials, who had been told Boehner had signed off on the
compromise and would deliver votes from his members, said an
administration official familiar with the negotiations. The
official didn’t say specifically who offered the White House
that assurance.  The tax cut took effect at the beginning of this year and
reduces employees’ share of the Social Security  payroll tax  to
4.2 percent from 6.2 percent. Obama had sought to shrink the tax
to 3.1 percent for 2012 and expand a version of it to employers.
The tax will be imposed next year on the first $110,100 of
wages.  Negotiating Details  Senate Democrats said they are prepared to negotiate the
details of a year-long agreement -- after the short-term
extension becomes law.  “Speaker Boehner says he does not want to ‘kick the can
down the road,’”  Richard Durbin  of  Illinois , the second-ranking
Senate Democrat, said in a statement. “His stubborn refusal to
accept this bipartisan approach will endanger a tax cut and kick
America’s middle class off the road.”  The differences between the House and Senate bills are
significant and go beyond whether the expiring provisions should
be extended for two months or for all of 2012.  The House bill included spending cuts that Democrats
oppose, such as a pay freeze for federal civilian workers,
higher premiums for high-income Medicare recipients and changes
to the tax credit formula underlying insurance subsidies in the
2010 health-care law.  The bill would cut the maximum length of  unemployment
benefits  to 79 weeks from 99 weeks and impose a gradual
reduction to 59 weeks. The House also voted to let states
perform drug tests on people who receive unemployment benefits.  Democratic Resistance  Senator  Max Baucus , chairman of the Finance Committee, said
Democrats resisted Republicans’ changes to unemployment benefits
and health care. As a result, the Montana Democrat told
reporters Dec. 17, negotiators couldn’t reach a year-long deal
or an 11-month deal that was also under discussion.  The Senate bill that passed would raise $35.7 billion by
increasing the guarantee fees that  Fannie Mae ,  Freddie Mac  and
the Federal Housing Administration charge to lenders for new
home mortgages. That proposal was also in the House bill.  Republican House leaders haven’t said what changes they
would seek to put back in the bill if they choose to change the
Senate bill rather than seek a House-Senate conference
committee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  