-- Pimco Predicts ‘Risk Off’ in First Part of 2012 on Europe, El-Erian Says
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2011-12-19T19:57:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/pimco-predicts-risk-off-in-first-part-of-2012-on-europe-el-erian-says.html
The first part of 2012 will be
“risk off” as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis encourages demand
for safety, said Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer at
Pacific Investment Management Co.  “The ECB has made it very clear that it doesn’t believe in
the bazooka,” El Erian said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance Midday” with Tom Keene. “It
believes in the national governments’ and other institutions’
getting their acts together first.”  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  damped
speculation among some investors that policy makers will step up
bond purchases to tame rising borrowing costs, telling the
Financial Times in an interview published today that the bank
can’t overstep its mandate.  The euro fell 0.2 percent to $1.3016 at 2:47 p.m. New York
time. The 17-nation currency touched $1.2946 on Dec. 14, the
lowest level since Jan. 11.  Euro-area governments met a target for boosting their
Anti-crisis war chest with a pledge to provide 150 billion euros
($195 billion) to the  International Monetary Fund .  Four non-euro users -- the  Czech Republic , Denmark, Poland
and Sweden -- will also pitch in, Luxembourg Prime Minister
Jean-Claude Juncker said in an e-mailed statement after chairing
a teleconference of finance ministers today. Britain will
“define its contribution” in early 2012, according to the
statement.  ‘Being Challenged’  “The only argument for the IMF there is that it can impose
conditionality that Europe cannot impose on itself,” said
El-Erian, 53, whose company, based in  Newport Beach , California,
runs the world’s biggest bond fund. “Europe is being challenged
on the economic front, the political front and on the social
front.”  Fitch Ratings  lowered France’s credit outlook and also put
other euro-area nations on review Dec. 16, saying an overall
crisis solution may be “technically and politically beyond
reach.” Belgium’s rating was cut two levels to Aa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service on the same day.  Next year will be characterized by de-levering,
de-globalization and policy inconsistencies, El Erian said.
“The second phase of 2012 is yet to be determined. The system
is being de-risked, and therefore the system as a whole is
de-levering.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  