-- Poland’s November Production Growth Unexpectedly Accelerated
-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l   a n d   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 2011-12-19T13:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/poland-s-november-production-growth-unexpectedly-accelerated.html
Polish  industrial-output growth 
unexpectedly accelerated in November as domestic demand held
strong and favorable weather conditions allowed companies to
continue infrastructure investments.  Production rose 8.7 percent from a year ago, after
increasing 6.5 percent in October, the  Central Statistical
Office  in Warsaw said today. That compares with a 5.7 percent
median estimate of 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Output
rose 0.7 percent on the month.  “Good weather conditions have already helped Polish  road
construction  and could also influence November’s industrial
output as infrastructure investments kept going,” Jaroslaw Janecki, chief economist at  Societe Generale  in Warsaw, said by
phone before the release.  The  economy  expanded 4.2 percent in the third quarter as
investments accelerated and a weaker zloty helped boost exports.
While the government reduced its 2012 growth forecast to 2.5
percent earlier this month from its previous estimate of 4
percent, faster-than-expected production gains suggest the
European Union’s largest eastern economy may resist the slowdown
spreading in the euro area, the country’s main trading partner.  Producer prices , an early indicator of inflationary trends,
rose 8.9 in November from a year earlier, compared with 8.5
percent in October, the statistics office said in a separate
report. The median forecast of 22 economists in a Bloomberg
survey was for an increase of 8.6 percent. Producer prices
increased 0.7 percent from the previous month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net ;
Katya Andrusz in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  