-- Polyus Gold’s Kazakh Head Teksler Takes Over Siberian Unit
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2011-12-19T08:59:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/polyus-gold-s-kazakh-head-teksler-takes-over-siberian-unit-1-.html
Polyus Gold International Ltd. 
appointed Alexey Teksler, who has been in charge of the Kazakh
operations of  Russia ’s largest gold miner for the last two
years, as head of its Siberian production unit.  Teksler takes over from Vladimir Sovmen, 54, who is
retiring, the company said today in a  statement  on its website.  “Sovmen has been one of the key people responsible for
operations and technology in Polyus, he ran Olimpiada mine and
built Blagodatnoye,” said Nikolay Sosnovskiy, an analyst at VTB
Capital. “Teksler has a general economic background and it may
take time for him to succeed in the new role.”  Teksler, 38, used to be a mayor in the city of Norilsk and
was also an executive at OAO GMK  Norilsk Nickel ’s polar
division. Polyus’s main production unit in the Krasnoyarsk
region of Siberia accounted for 68 percent of overall output in
the first nine months of 2011, the company said in October.  Sovmen was dismissed, two people with knowledge of the
matter said last week. He is related to Khazret Sovmen, the
businessman who sold Polyus to Norilsk Nickel in 2002. Vladimir
stayed on to run the Siberian unit after the acquisition.
Norilsk spun off its Polyus Gold division after acquiring mines
in other regions.  Polyus Gold International is controlled by the billionaires
Mikhail Prokhorov and Suleiman Kerimov. A government commission
chaired by Prime Minister Vladimir Putin has so far declined to
allow Polyus to move its domicile to  London  from  Jersey , needed
for the company to gain entry to FTSE indexes. Prokhorov said on
Dec. 12 he would challenge Putin in presidential elections.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  