-- Twitter Wins $300 Million Alwaleed Investment
-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2011-12-19T16:23:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/prince-alwaleed-kingdom-pay-300-million-for-strategic-stake-in-twitter.html
Twitter Inc., the microblogging
service with more than 100 million users, received a $300
million investment from Saudi Prince Alwaleed bin Talal as it
pushes through a redesign of its site to attract advertisers.  Alwaleed, who leads the 2011 Arab  Rich List , and his
 investment company  agreed to buy a “strategic stake” in
Twitter, Kingdom Holding said today. A strategic holding means
more than 3 percent, Ahmed Halawani, a Kingdom Holding director,
said in an interview. That would give the San Francisco-based
company a valuation exceeding $10 billion.  The investment by Alwaleed, the largest individual investor
in  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and owner of a stake in  News Corp. (NWSA) , may give
Twitter more time to pursue growth before selling shares an
initial public offering, a path that’s likely to be pursued by
rival Facebook Inc.  Twitter , which lets its users send 140-
character messages, is revamping the site to make it faster and
simpler to navigate.  “They are looking to give themselves some more running
space,” said Jeff Mann, an analyst at Gartner in Amsterdam.
“Their strategy has always been first get big. They’re still
holding reasonably close to that. Having a big audience is more
important than a short-term revenue stream.”  Twitter confirmed the investment in an e-mail, declining to
give additional comments.  Groupon, Zynga  Demand for technology IPOs reignited in November after a
summer lull, setting the stage for Zynga Inc., the largest maker
of games for  Facebook , Groupon Inc. and Angie’s List Inc. to go
public. Facebook may file for an IPO before the end of the year,
a person with knowledge of the matter said last month. The sale
may value the company at more than $100 billion, twice as high
as it was in January, when the company announced a $1.5 billion
investment from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and other backers.  DST Global, the technology fund managed by Russian
billionaire Yuri Milner and an investor in Facebook, led an $800
million financing round in Twitter in August. That investment
valued the short-messaging service at $8 billion, people with
knowledge of the plan said at the time.  “Twitter is seen as a strategic asset within the social
media space, given its large user base,” said Jack Neele, a
 fund manager  at Robeco Groep NV, which had about $194 billion
under management at the end of June. “But the business model in
its current form isn’t ready for the public market.”  Shares Jump  The investment followed “several months of negotiations,”
Kingdom Holding said in a statement. The Riyadh-based company,
controlled by Alwaleed, a nephew of  Saudi Arabia ’s King
Abdullah, jumped as much as 8.9 percent and closed 5.1 percent
higher at 8.25 riyals in Riyadh.  “The company believes that social networking will change
the fundamentals of the  media industry ,” Halawani said in a
telephone interview, adding that Alwaleed and Kingdom Holding
bought the shares from founding shareholders. “I expect Twitter
does not need further funding before going public.”  In a separate interview with  Al Arabiya , Halawani said
Twitter will probably hold an IPO in two years.  Twitter is seeking to speed up the rollout of advertising
features, its main source of revenue. The microblogging
service’s revamp includes tabs at the top of the screen that let
users more easily access their home pages, connect with others
and discover new content. EMarketer cut its estimate for 2011 ad
revenue to $139.5 million from $150 million in September because
Twitter has been slow to roll out some services.  Apple, General Motors  Twitter may boost ad revenue by 86 percent next year as it
attracts more international advertisers, according to EMarketer.  Evan Williams and  Biz Stone , two of Twitter’s co-founders,
have lessened their involvement under Chief Executive Officer
 Dick Costolo , who took the reins in October 2010. Mike Abbott, a
vice president in charge of engineering, also has stepped down.  Alwaleed, whose other investments include holdings in  Apple
Inc.  and General Motors Co., was ranked the richest Arab
businessman this year by Arabian Business magazine with assets
valued at $21.3 billion. Kingdom Holding, 95 percent owned by
the prince, is building the tallest tower in the world in Jeddah
at a cost of 4.6 billion riyals ($1.2 billion).  Alwaleed “is a savvy investor and the hot thing in the IT
world is social networking,” said Nabil Farhat, a partner at
Abu Dhabi-based Al Fajer Securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mourad Haroutunian in  Riyadh  at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at   shajimathew@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  