-- Private Equity Pioneer and Philanthropist F. Warren Hellman Dies at 77
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2011-12-19T18:21:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/private-equity-pioneer-and-philanthropist-hellman-dies-at-77.html
F. Warren Hellman, a onetime
president of  Lehman Brothers Inc ., a pioneer of the private-
equity industry and a philanthropist who funded an annual music
festival in San Francisco, has died. He was 77.  Hellman died yesterday from complications associated with
leukemia, according to a statement from Hellman & Friedman LLC,
the buyout firm he co-founded. His death came three days after a
meadow in Golden Gate Park, the site of his Hardly Strictly
Bluegrass Festival, was renamed Hellman Hollow.  Along with Tully Friedman, Hellman started doing private-
equity deals in 1984 before the industry had a name. His wealth,
the amount of which has remained undisclosed, helped finance San
Francisco museums and ballet, a local health clinic and the Bay
Area News Project, a nonprofit news organization.  “If this city had any patron, he was it,” said  David Lee ,
executive director of the Chinese American Voters Education
Committee and a commissioner of the  San Francisco Recreation and
Park Department . “He’s a grandfather figure of  San Francisco 
and a man who cared deeply about the city and had a vision that
included everybody, not just in the business community.”  Hellman joined Wall Street’s  Lehman Brothers  in 1959 after
graduating from  Harvard Business School . His uncle, Frederick L.
Ehrman, was chairman of the board, and Hellman’s fast rise -- he
made partner at 26 -- led to some grumbling that he was the
beneficiary of nepotism, the New York Times reported at the
time. He became the firm’s president in 1973, at 39.  ‘Very Good Banker’  Pete Peterson, who led a restructuring of Lehman after
becoming chairman and chief executive in 1973, said “my
affinity for Warren Hellman, the firm’s young president,” was
one reason he joined the firm after serving as President  Richard
Nixon ’s secretary of commerce. In his 2009  memoir , Peterson
praised Hellman as “a very good banker with strong values”
whose tenure at Lehman may have been shortened by the firm’s
notorious “dog-eat-dog” culture.  When he gave up the Lehman presidency in 1976, Hellman
denied reports that he had lost an executive-suite power
struggle. He said he and his wife wanted to move closer to their
children, who lived in  Vermont  and  New Hampshire , and would work
out of Lehman’s Boston office.  In Boston, though, he left Lehman in 1977 to open a
venture-capital firm, which became Matrix Partners and was an
early investor in  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   Buying Levi Straus  In 1985, a year after returning to San Francisco and
starting his investing practice with Friedman, Hellman helped
orchestrate a leveraged buyout of blue jeans maker Levi Strauss
& Co., along with Strauss family member Robert Haas.  Hellman spent more than two decades financing the
restructuring of companies including the Nasdaq Stock Market
Inc., advertising agency Young & Rubicam, motor-racing sponsor
Formula One Holdings, and Getty Images Inc., the largest
provider of photographs to publications.  Hellman stepped down as chairman of Hellman & Friedman in
2009 as the firm was closing its latest fund, bringing total
capital raised to more than $25 billion.  One of his biggest paydays came in 2007 when  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
bought DoubleClick Inc. for $3.1 billion, three times the price
his firm paid for the online ad company just two years earlier.
In an interview shortly after the deal was announced, Hellman
credited his partners with seeing the growth potential of the
market and realizing that DoubleClick was undervalued.  ‘Really Nailed It’  “The people here really nailed it,” Hellman said. “They
saw that that part of the business was starting to make really
huge jumps in revenue and cash flow.”  Hellman’s civic and philanthropic roles in the Bay Area
will be the more lasting legacy, according to friends and
business partners.  In 2002, he met Philip Halperin, a former private-equity
investor, over breakfast. They talked about starting an
organization that pulls together money and support for public
schools from a variety of sources.  From that meeting came the  San Francisco School Alliance .
Over the past six years, it has helped raise $1.8 billion in
bond and tax campaigns to rebuild schools and boost teacher
salaries, Halperin said.  “Warren had the power to change the trajectory of a
person’s life in one breakfast,” Halperin, 48, said. “It
didn’t matter if that person was a corporate titan or a
firefighter or someone like myself who cared about schools.”  Underground Parking  To keep the M.H. de Young Memorial Museum and the
California Academy of Sciences in Golden Gate Park, he
personally funded a $400,000 campaign for underground parking,
said Don Solem, a long-time public relations specialist, who led
the campaign.  “I’d never run into anyone who funded a campaign that had
nothing to do with his own economic interests,” Solem, 69, said
in an interview. “He’s much more of a charitable figure than a
political figure.”  Hellman’s most well-known gift to San Francisco came in the
form of music. In 2001, a month after the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks, he put on a one-day  festival  in Golden Gate Park,
dedicated to his lifelong love of bluegrass music and artists
like the Louvin Brothers and Bill Monroe.  Ten years later, Hardly Strictly Bluegrass is a three-day
event on six stages every October. Hellman is still footing the
entire bill, amounting to hundreds of thousands of dollars
annually, so that the music is free for attendees. Performers
include Emmylou Harris, Steve Earle, Gillian Welch, and Hellman
himself, who played banjo as part of his band, The Wronglers.  ‘Love of Bluegrass’  “I first met Warren through our mutual love of bluegrass
music and came to realize over the years what a special person
he was,” Harris said in a statement. “He gave so much of
himself to so many and we are all the richer for it.”  Frederick Warren Hellman was born on July 25, 1934, in  New
York . His formative years were in San Francisco, where his
family had gained prominence in banking in the 1800s. One of his
childhood friends was Don Fisher, the founder of Gap Inc.  After graduating from the  University of California  at
Berkeley, he joined the U.S. Army and was stationed in  Germany .
It was there he met his wife, Chris. They had three daughters
and a son.  One of Hellman’s most recent endeavors was the Bay Area
News Project, known as the Bay Citizen. It was introduced in
2009 in collaboration with the University of California,
Berkeley’s journalism school and KQED Public Media, as a
response to cutbacks in newspaper coverage of  City Hall , the
courts,  law enforcement  and the arts, Hellman said in an
interview. It was at least partly up to philanthropists to keep
the news industry afloat, he said.  Local Politics, Theater  “Local politics, which is important, doesn’t get a
fraction of the coverage it did,” Hellman said. “We have a
very active, very successful theater, dance and music scene but
how many articles do you ever see?”  Hellman invested the first $5 million in the project, which
has since raised capital from more than 60 individuals, families
and institutions, according to the website. The newsroom
produces a twice-weekly Bay Area section of the  New York Times. (NYT)   When asked in a 2007 interview to connect the dots among
his work, philanthropy and hobbies, Hellman said he just did
what he loved.  “My life has been very unplanned,” he said. “It’s all
been sort of random.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  