-- Putin Picks Playmate, Boxer, Tennis Star to Join Parliament
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2011-12-19T06:41:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/putin-picks-playmate-boxer-tennis-star-to-join-parliament.html
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s
United Russia party awarded seats in parliament to a former
Playboy playmate, boxing champion and No. 1 tennis player in a
bid to boost its image after its worst showing in eight years.  Maria Kozhevnikova, the centerfold in Playboy’s September
2009 Russia edition, former U.S. and Australian open winner
Marat Safin and Nikolai Valuev, who ceded the world heavyweight
crown in 2009, are among the 238 United Russia deputies that
will control the 450-seat State Duma when it convenes Dec. 21,
according to a list published in the government’s official
newspaper today.  President  Dmitry Medvedev , who led United Russia’s
electoral list in the Dec. 4 elections, is seeking to remake the
party’s image after alleged vote-rigging fueled protests that
grew into the largest in the Russian capital in a decade.  Medvedev on Dec. 17 said that all  United Russia  leaders and
candidates must be actual members of the party to prove that the
organization isn’t just a vote “machine.” Medvedev didn’t
mention Putin, who is chairman but not a member of United
Russia, by name. Medvedev is supporting his mentor Putin’s
campaign to return to the presidency in March elections.  “It’s essential that the management of United Russia and
that United Russia’s leaders, as well as those heading the
party’s electoral lists, should be members of United Russia --
without exception,” Medvedev said, according to a Kremlin
transcript. “Only then can the people of our country believe
that the party is not just a machine for votes or a stepping
stone in some official’s career.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  