-- Putin Orders Graft Probes at Utilities to Increase Transparency
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2011-12-19T14:48:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/putin-orders-graft-probes-at-utilities-to-increase-transparency.html
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  called
for corruption probes at Russian utilities companies to raise
transparency at state-run enterprises.  The energy and economy ministries should work with law
enforcement agencies to determine executives’ holdings in
affiliated companies and identify the ultimate shareholders of
businesses whose ownership structure is unclear, Putin said
today. Infrastructure companies and others including OAO Gazprom
and OAO Sberbank should submit ownership information, he added.  “We must have absolute clarity and understanding on the
ownership structure, real shareholders and beneficiaries,”
Putin said during a meeting at the Sayano-Shushenskaya
hydropower station in Siberia. “There are examples when real
shareholders of sales companies aren’t known -- everything is
hidden in offshore companies.”  Putin, who plans to return to the Kremlin in a March
election, has vowed to crack down on graft, with Russia
classified as the 143rd most-corrupt country out of 182 surveyed
in Transparency International’s 2011 Corruption Perceptions
Index. Preliminary probes by the Energy Ministry of 352 senior
executives in the electricity industry have found that almost
half were affiliated with commercial companies, while family
clans controlled swathes of utilities networks in some regions.  Putin ordered tighter control of management at state
utilities, criticizing related-party transactions involving
repair and sales companies and demanding that managers and their
families provide information about income and property ownership
to the Energy Ministry. Conflicts of interest can bring about
management changes, even in cases where the law hasn’t been
violated, he said.  Putin also asked for Gazprom, Sberbank, development bank
VEB, oil pipeline monopoly OAO Transneft, nuclear holding
company Rosatom Corp., shipper Sovcomflot and OAO Russian
Railways to disclose ownership at their affiliates within two
months, according to a transcript of his speech posted on the
government  website .  “We may later extend this to other infrastructure spheres
of our economy,” Putin said. “Bringing our national economy,
its strategic industries, out of the offshore shadow is our
priority for the coming years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  