-- U.S. 30-Year Bond Yields Tumble to Lowest in 10 Weeks Amid Growth Concern
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2011-12-19T17:06:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/treasury-10-year-note-yields-rebound-from-10-week-low-before-note-auctions.html
Treasury  30-year-bonds rose, pushing
yields to a 10-week low, as investors sought safety and the U.S.
prepared to auction $99 billion of two-, five- and seven-year
notes this week.  Benchmark 10-year note yields fell as the potential for
credit downgrades of France and  Spain  encouraged demand for a
refuge in  U.S. government debt . European finance ministers
sought to meet a self-imposed deadline for drawing additional
aid to their region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  “There still seems to be a need for Treasuries in the back
end of the market as  people are reaching for yield toward the
end of the year given the general  risk aversion  in the
atmosphere, even at these incredibly low yields,” said Paul Horrmann, a broker in New York at Tradition Asiel Securities
Inc., an interdealer broker.  Yields on U.S. 30-year bonds dropped four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 2.82 percent at 12:03 p.m. New York
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They touched
2.81 percent, the lowest level since Oct. 5. The 3.125 percent
securities due in November 2041 gained 23/32, or $7.19 per
$1,000 face amount, to 106 7/32.  Yields on benchmark U.S.  10-year notes  fell two basis
points to 1.82 percent, also the lowest level since Oct. 5. Ten-
year yields have decreased 147 basis points this year and
reached a record low 1.67 percent on Sept. 23. They dropped 21
basis points last week.  Two-Year Auction  Two-year notes  yielded 0.23 percent before the government
auctions $35 billion of the securities today. The U.S. will sell
the same amount of five-year debt tomorrow and $29 billion of
seven-year notes Dec. 21. The amounts are unchanged from the
last offerings of the maturities in November.  “Yields are low,” said  David Ader , head of government-
bond strategy at  Stamford , Connecticut-based CRT Capital Group
LLC. “At these levels, at this time of the year, we can create
a concession. The market is relatively illiquid and relatively
thin.”  The Treasury last week auctioned $78 billion in notes,
bonds and inflation-linked debt. It sold $12 billion in five-
year Treasury Inflation Protected Securities Dec. 15 at a record
low yield of negative 0.877 percent and $13 billion in 30-year
bonds Dec. 14 at a  record low  yield of 2.925 percent, drawing
3.05 times the bids as the amount sold, the highest level since
August 2000. Auctions of 10- and three-year notes also drew
stronger-than-average demand as investors sought refuge.  Auction Preparation  “We are seeing the market try to prepare for the week’s
auctions,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, which oversees $12
billion in fixed-income assets. “There isn’t much value in
Treasuries, but headed into year-end any sell-off will be
limited, given the demand for high-quality assets for balance-
sheet prettification concerns.”  Benchmark 10-year note yields may touch 1.5 percent in the
first half of 2012 amid slow growth, the threat of a worsening
European sovereign debt crisis and a lack of inflation, Dominic Konstam, head of interest-rate strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in
 New York , wrote in a note to clients. The firm is one of the 21
primary dealers obligated to bid in U.S. debt auctions.  “It has to be worse before it can be better,” he wrote.  Treasury supply probably will “remain stable near term”
because of uncertainty on fiscal policies, Konstam wrote.  Fed Purchase  The  Federal Reserve   bought  $4.898 billion of Treasuries
today due in 2018. The purchase is part of a plan announced in
September to replace $400 billion of shorter maturities in its
holdings with longer-term debt to cap borrowing costs and
support the economy.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. still views U.S. Treasuries as the
world’s safest asset and expects that view to continue, said Jes Staley, chief executive officer of the firm’s investment bank.  Staley’s view of Treasuries hasn’t changed even after
 Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the debt from AAA, he said today in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Inside Track” with
 Erik Schatzker .  Housing starts in the U.S. increased 1.1 percent last month
from October, when they declined 0.3 percent, according to
economist estimates in a Bloomberg News survey before the
Commerce Department releases the data tomorrow.  Consumer spending  rose for a fifth month in November,
adding 0.3 percent, a separate survey showed before the report
due Dec. 23.  ‘Far Too Low’  “U.S. data have been showing the economy is picking up,”
said Hitoshi Asaoka, a senior strategist in  Tokyo  at Mizuho
Trust & Banking Co., a unit of  Japan ’s third-largest listed
bank. “The yields are far too low given the fundamentals.”  Euro-area finance ministers are holding a conference call
to discuss 200 billion euros ($261 billion) in additional
funding through the  International Monetary Fund  and the
mechanics of a so-called fiscal compact that was negotiated at a
Dec. 9 European Union summit, according to two people familiar
with the planning.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  damped
expectations the bank will step up bond purchases to tame rising
borrowing costs, telling the Financial Times in an interview
published today that the bank can’t overstep its mandate.  Fitch Ratings  last week lowered  France ’s outlook and also
put the ratings of nations including Spain and  Italy  on review
for a downgrade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  