-- Treasury Yields Touch 10-Week Low on Europe Concern, Kim Jong Il’s Death
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2011-12-19T06:56:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/treasuries-hold-advance-as-europe-debt-concern-boosts-demand-for-safety.html
Treasury  10-year note yields touched
a more than two-month low as the prospect of credit downgrades
of  France  and  Spain  along with the death of North Korean leader
 Kim Jong Il  boosted demand for  U.S. government debt  as a haven.  Fitch Ratings last week lowered France’s credit outlook and
said it may cut Spain’s grade as the nations prepare for bill
sales this week. U.S. bonds held onto gains from last week as
Asian stocks extended losses after North Korean state television
confirmed that Kim had died. The Treasury begins auctions of
two-, five- and seven-year notes today.  “Kim Jong Il’s death added to uncertainty in the markets,
which have already been risk averse because of the European debt
crisis,” said  Masaru Hamasaki , Tokyo-based chief strategist at
Toyota Asset Management Co., which looks after the equivalent of
$24 billion, including Japanese and global government bonds.
“Investors are flocking to the safety of Treasuries.”  The yield on the  10-year note  was little changed at 1.84
percent at 6:45 a.m. in  London  from the close in  New York  last
week, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent
security due November 2021 changed hands at 101 14/32. The rate
earlier touched 1.83 percent, matching the lowest level since
Oct. 5.  The benchmark 10-year yield declined 145 basis points, or
1.45 percentage points, this year and fell to a record low of
1.67 percent on Sept. 23.  The  MSCI (MXAP)  Asia Pacific Index of shares dropped as much as
2.5 percent today after the official Korean Central News Agency
said Kim, 70, died on Dec. 17 of exhaustion brought on by a
sudden illness while on a domestic train trip.  France is scheduled to sell as much as 7 billion euros
($9.1 billion) of bills today. Spain will auction government
securities tomorrow maturing in three and six months.  Fitch Ratings   Fitch reduced its outlook for France to negative from
stable on Dec. 16, saying the country is more exposed to the
region’s debt crisis than other top-rated euro-zone countries
because of its  budget deficit  and government debt burden. The
ratings company separately placed other European nations,
including Spain and Italy, on a review for a downgrade.  Moody’s cut Belgium’s credit rating two levels to Aa3 last
week. The firm said the European summit this month offered few
new measures and didn’t diminish the risk of rating revisions.
 Standard & Poor’s  said on Dec. 5 it expected to conclude a
review of euro-area sovereign ratings “as soon as possible”
after the Dec. 8-9 summit.  Euro Finance Ministers  Finance ministers in the euro region will hold a conference
call today to discuss 200 billion euros in additional funding
through the  International Monetary Fund  and the mechanics of a
so-called fiscal compact that was negotiated at the summit,
according to two people familiar with the planning.  “I’m not expecting any material sell-off on Treasuries any
time soon,” said  Adam Carr , a senior economist in Sydney at
ICAP Australia Ltd., a unit of the world’s biggest interdealer
broker. “All hinges on  Europe  at the moment. We need risk
appetite to come back into the market” to see an increase in
yields.  U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spreads, a measure of
stress in credit markets, were at 49 basis points today,
hovering around the widest level since Nov. 30, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The gap between what banks and the Treasury pay to borrow
money for three months, known as the TED spread, reached 57
basis points Dec. 16, the highest level since May 2009.  Bond Returns  Treasuries have gained 1.1 percent in the month through
Dec. 16, based on Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. German
bunds gained 2.7 percent and Japanese bonds increased 0.6
percent, the indexes show.  U.S. debt  due in 10 years or more has returned 30 percent
this year, the most among 144 bond indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies
after accounting for currency changes.  Japan’s benchmark 10-year  yields  slid one basis point to
0.97 percent today, after earlier falling to 0.965 percent, the
lowest level since Nov. 24.  The Treasury will offer $35 billion of two-year notes
today, and auction the same amount of five-year debt tomorrow,
and $29 billion of seven-year securities on Dec. 21. The amounts
were unchanged from the last offerings of the maturities in
November.  Fed Asset Purchases  The  Federal Reserve  is  scheduled  to buy as much as $5
billion of Treasuries due from 2017 and 2019 today as part of a
plan announced in September to replace $400 billion of shorter
maturities in its holdings with longer-term debt to cap
borrowing costs.  Gains in U.S. debt were limited before data this week that
may add to evidence that the world’s largest economy is gaining
momentum.  Housing starts in the U.S. increased 1.1 percent last month
from October when they declined 0.3 percent, according to
economist estimates in a Bloomberg News survey before the
Commerce Department releases the data tomorrow.  Consumer
spending  rose for a fifth month in November, adding 0.3 percent,
another survey of economists showed before the government report
due Dec. 23.  U.S. gross domestic product will expand 2.19 percent next
year, compared with 1.55 percent for the Group of 10 nations,
Bloomberg surveys of economists show.  “U.S. data have been showing the economy is picking up,”
said Hitoshi Asaoka, a senior strategist in  Tokyo  at Mizuho
Trust & Banking Co., a unit of  Japan ’s third-largest listed
bank. “The yields are far too low given the fundamentals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  