-- Rhode Island Muni Outlook Unlikely to Gain as Economy Sags, Moody’s Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2011-12-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/rhode-island-muni-outlook-unlikely-to-gain-as-economy-sags-moody-s-says.html
Rhode Island  communities face more
credit-rating cuts as the local economy declines, property
values plunge and pension liabilities rise, Moody’s Investors
Service said, citing sharper trends than in most states.  The growing cost of retirement benefits is “reaching a
crisis point” for many of its local governments, Moody’s said
in a report released today.  Rhode Island  cities and towns
operate their pension plans independently and so were excluded
from a state law passed last month that suspended cost-of-living
increases and lifting retirement ages for public workers.  “A lot of national negative trends are particularly acute
in Rhode Island,” Naomi Richman, an analyst at the credit
rating company in  New York , said by telephone before the report
was released. The company has a negative outlook on U.S. local
governments, she said. The average debt grade for Ocean State
municipalities, at A1, is a step below the Aa3 national median.  Rhode Island’s economy is among the weakest in the U.S.,
with  unemployment  at 10.4 percent in October, the highest level
in  New England  and above the 9 percent national rate. There is a
60 percent chance that the state, which has cut aid to cities
and towns by about $200 million in the past five years, will
fall back into recession within six months, Moody’s said.  Plunging Property Values  Manufacturing provides less than 10 percent of the jobs in
Rhode Island, down from 35 percent in 1970, and  population
growth  has stagnated, Moody’s said.  Home prices , which rose more
rapidly than the national average before the financial crisis,
have plunged almost 25 percent since the 2007 second quarter
compared with more than 15 percent nationwide, Moody’s said.  Communities may end up collecting less property tax as
values fall, Moody’s said. This year, the real estate tax base
in Providence, the state’s capital and largest city, fell 14
percent, while the municipal pension had just 34 percent of the
assets needed to meet projected obligations, the company said.  Moody’s, which rates $1.9 billion of debt issued by 32
Rhode Island municipalities, cut the general-obligation credit
grades of eight. While none has defaulted on bond payments,
 Central Falls  in August entered bankruptcy after property values
plummeted and it was overwhelmed by pension liabilities.  The trend for 2012 is “likely to favor downgrades,” and
there will be “few if any upgrades,” Moody’s said in the
report. It also warned that a state oversight program, set up in
June 2010 to help municipalities facing financial pressures, is
untested and may be overwhelmed by multiple simultaneous
requests for assistance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael McDonald in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  