-- Richmond Fed Survey of Agricultural Credit Conditions (Text)
-- B y   T e r r y   B a r r e t t
-- 2011-12-19T14:04:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/richmond-fed-survey-of-agricultural-credit-conditions-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Richmond Fed’s Survey of Agricultural Credit Conditions:  Results from the Richmond Fed’s latest survey of Fifth District
agricultural banks continued to indicate a stable lending
environment in the third quarter of 2011. Despite  Hurricane
Irene ’s negative impact on yields in some areas of the region,
bankers generally reported that farm loan demand held steady. In
addition, lenders noted that loan repayment rates were on par
with the second quarter and that requests for loan renewals or
extensions increased notably from our last report. Moreover,
agricultural lenders reported that availability of farm loans
was in line with second quarter levels and that collateral
requirements inched higher. Reports indicated that interest
rates for agricultural loans moved lower across the board.
Turning to farmland values, third-quarter land prices were
slightly below the previous quarter and year-ago levels.  Demand for Farm Loans  Lenders attributed the stabilization in loan demand to solid
cattle prices, combined with continued worldwide demand driving
commodity prices higher. However, Hurricane Irene’s impact on
crop yields was a primary factor of concern in some areas of the
District, while lenders remained apprehensive about the
continued volatility in feed ingredients for poultry and
livestock producers. Also, lenders noted that the forestry
industry remained weak and nursery products had slowed down.  Contacts in  North Carolina  and  West Virginia  reported that
cattle prices were solid and are expected to remain so into 2012.
A banker in North Carolina cited high winds from Hurricane Irene
as the primary reason for reduced crop yields -- particularly
for corn and tobacco -- and noted that cotton planted in the
coastal plain areas was seriously battered. In contrast, a
banker in  Virginia  reported above-average yields for the 2011
corn crop, despite areas of noticeable, but minor damage due to
Hurricane Irene. A contact in North Carolina indicated that
unstable feed costs continued to impact profitability of
integrators and had slowed expansion plans in parts of North
Carolina and southern Virginia. Furthermore, a banker in North
Carolina indicated that problems in the housing industry
continued to depress lumber demand and that demand for nursery
products had stalled, with sales expected to be low until next
spring.  Looking forward, lenders’ expectations for farm loan volumes in
the fourth quarter of 2011 were mixed. The reading for farm
machinery loans moved up thirty-seven points to 17, and the
expected demand for operating loans rose nine points to 16. In
other categories, however, the expected demand for dairy loans
fell further, losing thirteen points to −30, while the reading
for crop storage loans added six points to −27.  Interest Rates   Interest rates for agricultural loans by category declined
across the board during the third quarter. Compared to second
quarter levels, rates for feeder cattle loans moved down 54
basis points and rates for intermediate-term real estate loans
fell 37 points. In other categories, interest rates for long-
term real estate loans fell 27 basis points, while rates for
operating loans dropped 17 basis points.  Availability of Credit  In the third quarter, 75 percent of lenders reported that they
actively sought new farm loans -- up from 60 percent in the
previous quarter. Moreover, lenders reported that farm loans
were virtually unchanged -- the funds availability index fell
thirteen points to 0.  Credit Quality  During the third quarter, the quality of agricultural credit
demand was mixed. Loan repayment rates changed little, as the
index eased down one point to −8, while the loan renewals index
moved up twenty-seven points to 34. In addition, the index for
collateral requirements gained five points to end the third
quarter at 58.  Farmland Values  The market value of good farmland averaged $3,263 per acre in
the third quarter -- 1.5 percent below the second quarter
reading and 4.5 percent lower than a year earlier. Looking ahead,
bankers anticipate that farmland prices would slow somewhat
during the fourth quarter of 2011; the index for expected land
values lost seventeen points to -17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Barrett in Washington at 
 tbarrett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  