-- Riding High-Speed Rail to a U.S. Recovery: John Rosenthal
-- B y   J o h n   R o s e n t h a l
-- 2011-12-19T00:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/riding-high-speed-rail-to-a-u-s-recovery-john-rosenthal.html
Bipartisan enthusiasm greeted
President  Barack Obama ’s announcement in 2009 that the U.S.,
long the world’s caboose in train travel, would finally invest
in high-speed intercity passenger rail.  Much as Dwight D. Eisenhower made the Interstate Highway
System a hallmark of his administration, Obama pledged to make a
national network of bullet trains the legacy of his. Governors
from both parties applied for the initial round of $8 billion in
funds from the $787 billion stimulus bill.  Because of its ingenious scope, neither the airlines nor
the  auto industry  contested the plan. It targeted corridors
among major cities that are too far apart to drive, but too
close to make flying worth the time and hassle of trudging
through airport security: Chicago,  Detroit ,  St. Louis  and
 Milwaukee , for example, or Atlanta,  Charlotte , Birmingham and
 New Orleans . Although trains wouldn’t compete with planes
between  New York  and  Los Angeles  or, for that matter, Chicago,
the plan would put high-speed rail within the reach of 80
percent of Americans.  At the time, there was little opposition. The first awards
were announced in January 2010, and while there was predictable
griping about which corridors got the most money, support
remained high for the program overall.  Tea Party Surge  Then came the Tea Party uprising of 2010, ushering in a
crowd of anti-spending legislators. They immediately set out to
derail the program, which they conflated with the supposedly
socialist agenda the president was pushing with his health-care
overhaul. Newly elected Tea Party governors in Florida,
 Wisconsin  and  Ohio  returned a total of $3.6 billion in stimulus
awards; Representative Paul Ryan of Wisconsin introduced an
amendment to rescind $2.3 billion in rail funding that hadn’t
yet been spent.  The protests were mostly grandstanding, and didn’t end up
denting the deficit by a dime. Ryan’s bill stalled in the
Senate, while the grants to Florida, Wisconsin and Ohio were
redistributed to other states. Wisconsin’s governor, Scott Walker, even applied for an award from a later round of federal
funding to upgrade rail between  Chicago  and Milwaukee.  This opposition may have been good politics, but it’s
terrible policy for America. The arguments in favor of high-
speed rail are just as compelling as they were in the early
1990s, when President  George H.W. Bush ’s administration first
outlined the rail corridors.  Investment in rail is a step toward energy independence.
Transportation accounts for almost three-quarters of U.S. oil
consumption. Shifting millions of passenger trips from cars and
airplanes to electric-powered trains each year wouldn’t just
relieve airport and highway congestion; it would also reduce the
amount of oil we need to import from the  Middle East . And
because trains use a third less energy per passenger mile than
cars do, they’re far less damaging to the environment.  The weak economy only increases the urgency.  Interest rates 
are at historic lows, real estate values remain depressed,
private sector spending is stagnant, and unemployment is stuck
around 9 percent. There could hardly be a better time to borrow
billions of dollars to buy up land for train rights-of-way and
to create high-paying jobs in engineering, manufacturing and
construction.  When  Florida ’s Republican governor,  Rick Scott , returned
$2.4 billion in federal rail funds last year, he also expunged
about 17,000 construction jobs in one of the most depressed
areas of his state. The Florida corridor, which could have
linked Orlando to Tampa as early as 2014, was projected to
return an operating profit of $10 million in its first year
alone.  Out of Depression  From the Appian Way to the Erie Canal, economic development
has always followed transportation. Businesses small and large
cluster around train depots, propelling real estate values and
generating millions in new property taxes. The U.S. built its
way out of the Depression by investing in massive projects such
as the Empire State Building, the Hoover Dam and the Blue Ridge
Parkway. High-speed rail is a time-proven way out of today’s
economic morass.  It is undoubtedly expensive. And rejecting the massive
investments required as wasteful spending would be easy if
America’s transportation needs were stagnant. But they aren’t.
The Census Bureau estimates that the population will grow by 100
million over the next 40 years. And most of those people will
reside in urban areas where airports and highways are already
bursting at the seams.  Compared with the cost of building new airports, widening
interstates, relocating highway sound barriers, and erecting
millions of parking lots, high-speed rail is a bargain.  California  recently revised the projections for its high-
speed rail plan to $98 billion, more than twice the previous
estimate. But even at those prices, it’s cheaper than the
alternative. According to Rod Diridon, executive director of the
Mineta Transportation Institute, in  San Jose , to meet the
transportation needs of California’s growing population without
rail, the state would have to spend more than $100 billion to
build new airports and add six lanes to every highway.  And by 2050, those highways and airports would be just as
congested as they are today. But if California spends the money
on high-speed rail, it can simply increase the frequency of
service or add more cars per train whenever population catches
up to capacity.  The existing framework for high-speed rail isn’t perfect.
America has spent a century neglecting what was once one of the
finest rail networks in the world. It’s going to take more than
two years to get it back on track.  There are also flaws with the way funds have been allocated
thus far. Too little has been directed to the Northeast
Corridor, where population density is greatest, where demand is
already high, and where  Amtrak ’s Acela service strains to reach
its top speed of 150 mph because of antiquated infrastructure.  Upgrading Service  And it’s valid to complain that too much of the high-speed
money has gone toward upgrading conventional rail service in the
Midwest. Yet, in fairness, simply getting existing trains up to
90 mph is already going a long way toward the network’s goal of
competing favorably with driving and flying.  Abandoning this cost-effective, energy-efficient,
environmentally friendly, revenue-generating grand vision would
be a mistake we would regret for generations. The construction
of a successful high-speed rail network is vital to America’s
future. But it won’t happen unless the leaders of the 21st
century stop playing politics and start thinking beyond the next
election.  (John Rosenthal is a contributing editor for National
Geographic Traveler. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
John Rosenthal at  lucy_is_bald@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 