-- Trish Regan Joins Bloomberg Television as Anchor
-- B y
-- 2011-12-19T15:13:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/trish-regan-joins-bloomberg-television-as-anchor.html
                                
Press Release  Regan to co-anchor “Street Smart”  New York -- Bloomberg Television announced today it has signed
Trish Regan, former CNBC anchor and  CBS News  correspondent, as
an anchor. The announcement was made by Andrew Morse, head of
Bloomberg Television in the U.S.  Regan will co-anchor Bloomberg TV’s “Street Smart” which will
air from 3-5 pm ET weekdays from Bloomberg Television’s global
headquarters in New York, beginning January 9, 2012. She will
also anchor a number of primetime specials and help lead anchor
coverage of the 2012 Presidential election campaign for
Bloomberg TV.  “Trish is an accomplished broadcast journalist and skilled
reporter who has covered some of the most important global
economic stories of our time,” said Morse. “She’ll play a key
role on our Bloomberg team as we move forward with our goal of
becoming the most influential business and financial news
network.”  “I’m thrilled to join Bloomberg Television,” said Regan. “We’re
at a critical moment where the ability to cover business, the
economy, and politics has never been more important to the
audience.  Bloomberg has the worldwide resources to provide
viewers with outstanding insight and true global coverage.”  An Emmy-nominated investigative journalist and author, Regan was
previously an anchor at CNBC, where she also anchored primetime
documentaries and reported on major economic news, including the
U.S. banking collapse of 2008 and the European debt crisis.
Among other stories, Regan reported from the G-8 summit in
 Germany , covered  Brazil ’s economic boom and challenges, and
interviewed Colombian President Álvaro Uribe about investing in
 emerging markets . Regan also was a regular contributor to NBC’s
“Nightly News with  Brian Williams ,” the “Today” show, and the
syndicated “Chris Matthews Show.”  Regan joined CNBC from CBS News where she was a correspondent
reporting for the “CBS Evening News” and a contributor to “Face
the Nation” and “48 Hours.” Regan’s focus at CBS News was the
 U.S. economy .  Regan is a member of The  Council on Foreign
Relations  and is a graduate of  Columbia University .  Bloomberg Television, available in more than 290 million homes
worldwide, reaches some of the world’s most affluent and
influential viewers in terms of  household income , asset value
and education levels. With hubs in New York,  London  and  Hong
Kong , the network provides 24-hour continuous coverage of the
people, companies and ideas that move the markets.  For more information on Bloomberg Television, please visit
 www.bloomberg.com/tv  and follow us on Twitter ( @BloombergTV ) and
 Facebook .  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength - delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately
- is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real time financial information to more than 310,000
subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions build on
the company’s core strength, leveraging technology to allow
customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and
information across organizations more efficiently and
effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government,
Bloomberg New Energy Finance and BNA, the company provides data,
news and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond
finance. And Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg
Professional service, television, radio, mobile, the Internet
and two magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets,
covers the world with more than 2,300 news and multimedia
professionals at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.  Headquartered in
 New York , Bloomberg employs more than 15,000 people in 192
locations around the world.  Contact: Jocelyn Austin, +1-212-617-3578,  jbaustin@bloomberg.net 
