-- Weill’s Penthouse Bought for Russian Billionaire’s Daughter
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2011-12-19T20:34:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/russian-billionaire-agrees-to-purchase-sanford-weill-s-manhattan-penthouse.html
A  Manhattan  penthouse owned by
Sanford Weill, former chairman of  Citigroup Inc. (C) , and listed for
$88 million, is being purchased for the daughter of Russian
billionaire  Dmitry Rybolovlev .  A company associated with Ekaterina Rybolovleva signed a
contract to purchase the 6,744-square-foot (627-square-meter),
full-floor condominium at  15 Central Park West , Alan Basiev, a
spokesman for Rybolovlev, said in an e-mail.  Rybolovleva, who is studying at a U.S. university, plans to
stay at the apartment when visiting New York, Basiev said. Her
father, ranked number 93 on the Forbes list of the world’s
billionaires with a net worth of $9.5 billion, is the former
owner of fertilizer maker OAO Uralkali.  The condominium was  listed for sale  by brokerage Brown
Harris Stevens last month. Weill and his wife, Joan, paid $43.7
million for the property in 2007, according to city records.  “Given that the sale was done so quietly and quickly, it
probably sold at or near the listing price,” said  Jonathan Miller , president of appraiser Miller Samuel Inc. The average
sale takes about four months, he said.  A sale anywhere close to $88 million would make it the most
expensive residential transaction ever in Manhattan, according
to Miller. The prior record was the $53 million sale of a
townhouse to private-equity investor J.  Christopher Flowers  in
2006, Miller said. That property resold on Aug. 15 for $36.5
million, he said.  Weak U.S. Dollar  “Right now we’re seeing a whole slew of trophy-property
sales,” Miller said. “This is in part due to the weak dollar,
which is driving foreign investments.”  Sales of Manhattan luxury apartments, defined as the top 10
percent of all condo and co-op transactions by price, jumped 17
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier, according to
Miller Samuel and broker Prudential Douglas Elliman Real Estate.  The four-bedroom Central Park West condo features a
wraparound terrace, two wood-burning fireplaces and a library,
according to a floor plan on Brown Harris’s website.  Amy Gotzler, a spokeswoman at Brown Harris, declined to
comment today.  The agreement was reported yesterday by the  New York 
Observer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  