-- Russian Capital Outflows Reflect Political Turmoil, Fitch Says
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2011-12-19T17:35:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/russian-capital-outflows-reflect-political-turmoil-fitch-says.html
Russian capital outflows that
surpassed the central bank’s full-year estimate through the end
of November reflect unease about the country’s political
outlook,  Fitch Ratings  said.  Capital outflows “partly reflect the poor business climate
and political uncertainty,” the ratings company said in an e-
mailed statement today, adding that the level is “not currently
high enough to affect the country’s BBB rating.”  Outflows of about $10 billion in November may have pushed
the total this year to $74 billion, Alexei Ulyukayev, a first
deputy chairman of Bank Rossii, said last week. That compares
with a preliminary estimate of $49 billion through the first
nine months of the year and the central bank’s own forecast of
$70 billion in outflows for 2011.  Political uncertainty following this month’s parliamentary
elections may exacerbate the capital flight, Fitch said in the
statement. International observers said there was evidence of
ballot-box stuffing as Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s United
 Russia  party suffered its worst result in a nationwide vote 
since 2003.  Russia’s dollar-denominated Eurobond due in 2020 rose for a
second day, reducing the yield by six basis points to 4.671
percent. A basis point is equal to 0.01 percentage point. The
ruble fell 0.1 percent to 32.05 per dollar, the weakest level
since Oct. 7.  Reserves Buffer  With international currency and gold reserves of $513
billion as of Dec. 9, “external finances remain a strength for
its rating,” Fitch said. The  amount  has risen from $479 billion
at the end of last year. Russia, the world’s largest energy
exporter, is also helping offset the outflows by sending more
goods and services abroad than it imports.  The current-account surplus, the broad measure of money
flowing in and out of a country, may be $82 billion or 4.5
percent of gross domestic product this year, Fitch said. The
figure will narrow to 2.3 percent of GDP in 2012 and 1.2 percent
the following year, it said.  “Many  emerging markets  have experienced capital outflows
in recent months, partly related to heightened global  risk
aversion  emanating from the eurozone sovereign debt crisis,”
Fitch said.  While the company does not expect Putin’s authority to
fragment amid a challenge from voters, any weakening would
increase Russia’s political risks and probably stoke further
outflows of money, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  