-- Russian Rig Death Toll Rises to 11 as Chance for Survivors Fades
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2011-12-19T14:46:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/russian-drilling-rig-carrying-67-sinks-death-toll-rises-to-5.html
Russian rescue workers recovered 11
bodies from icy waters north of Sakhalin Island after a drilling
rig with 67 people on board sank in a storm, according to the
local government authorities.  A raft covered by an orange tent was spotted by an
airplane, Andrey Bobrov, a spokesman for rig owner  OAO
Arktikmorneftegazrazvedka , said by phone, citing General
Director Yuriy Melekhov. Rescue vessels are trying to reach the
raft, he said, adding it was too early to say anything about
passengers. That leaves 42 people missing after 14 were saved
yesterday.  “Given that the water temperature is about 0 degrees
Celsius (32 degrees Fahrenheit), the chances for survivors are
low,” Sergey Viktorov, a spokesman for the Emergency Ministry’s
Far East division, said by phone. The operation is continuing
after nightfall in the region, he said.  The Kolskaya jack-up rig capsized and sank in a storm in
the Sea of Okhotsk yesterday while being towed to Sakhalin. The
rig had completed a job off the Kamchatka Peninsula for  OAO
Gazprom (GAZP) , the world’s biggest natural-gas producer, two weeks
earlier.  President  Dmitry Medvedev  ordered a probe into the
accident, according to a statement on the Kremlin website.
Investigators consider unsafe towing without taking the weather
into account may be the cause of the accident,  Russia ’s
Investigative Committee said on its  website .  ‘Huge Factory’  The drilling rig was carrying 53 crew and 14 passengers
when it went down, at depth of 1,000 meters (3,280 feet),
according to the Russian Emergency Situations website. The
vessel could accommodate 102 people, according to the company’s
 website . The crew were highly professional, trained in
accordance with international regulations, Melekhov said on
Russian state television.  “The rig was like a huge factory, which needed dozens of
crew,” Bobrov said. The Kolskaya had undergone capital repairs
in February and was in working condition, the company said.  The rig was built in  Finland  in 1985, according to
Arktikmorneftegazrazvedka, a unit of state-run oil producer OAO
Zarubezhneft. It had finished working on Dec. 4, and Gazprom had
no contractual obligations with the rig’s owner as of Dec. 11,
 Sergei Kupriyanov , a spokesman for the Moscow-based gas
producer, said by phone yesterday.  “Such accidents happen quite often globally, for example
in the  Gulf of Mexico , during severe storms,” said Vasily
Bogoyavlensky, deputy director of the Arctic and World Ocean
studies at the Moscow-based Oil and Gas Research Institute of
the Russian Academy of Sciences.  A drilling rig similar to the Kolskaya, called the 60 Years
of Azerbaijan, sank in the  Caspian Sea  in 1983, while the
Alexander Kielland, a semi-submersible drilling rig, capsized
while working in the Ekofisk oil field in the Norwegian sector
of the  North Sea  in 1980, killing 123, Bogoyavlensky said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  