-- S&P Raises Mongolia Outlook to Positive From Stable on Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-19T08:16:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/s-p-raises-mongolia-outlook-to-positive-from-stable-on-growth.html
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services
revised Mongolia’s outlook to positive from stable and affirmed
the landlocked nation’s sovereign ratings, citing its growth
prospects as more mines begin operations.  Mongolia’s long-term sovereign rating remains BB- and its
short-term rating B, S&P said in a statement today. The outlook
revision reflects expectations for a “significant” increase in
real per capital gross domestic product through at least 2014,
with S&P estimating the measure may more than double to $6,560
by 2014 from $2,973 this year, according to the statement.  Economic growth in Mongolia may surge to 23 percent in 2013,
more than twice the pace of expansion in  China , as mining
projects begin production in the sparsely populated nation, the
 International Monetary Fund  said in April. Mongolia in June
surpassed  Australia  to become the biggest supplier of coking
coal to China, according to the Ulan Bator-based Trade and
Development Bank.  The nation’s  MSE Top 20  stock index gained 2.8 percent
today, the biggest one-day increase in two months.  S&P said today it may raise Mongolia’s sovereign ratings if
its fiscal and external debt metrics continue to improve. The
rating may also be upgraded if improvements in fiscal, monetary,
and banking sector policies materially reduce vulnerabilities in
these areas, S&P said.  The rating may stabilize or come under downward pressure if
macroeconomic stability and public finances come under renewed
threat from “extravagant” fiscal expansion or the fiscal cost
of intervention from further unexpected banking sector losses,
S&P said. Excessive recourse to commercial external borrowing
would also put the rating under downward pressure as the move
would adversely affect Mongolia’s favorable debt interest and
maturity structure, S&P said.  A weak policy environment and its resources-based economy
are also acting as constraints on Mongolia’s rating, S&P said.  --Zheng Lifei. Editors:  John Liu , Tan Hwee Ann  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at   lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at   ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  