-- Saab Automobile Breakup Looms on Chinese Cash Limit, GM’s Snub of Venture
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2011-12-19T17:17:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/saab-automobile-chief-says-swedish-automaker-submits-filing-for-bankrupty.html
Saab Automobile’s assets may be
broken up and sold to pay debt as the unprofitable Swedish
company ends more than six decades of carmaking following a
bankruptcy filing.  Saab Auto submitted the application at Vaenersborg District
Court after a potential Chinese partner wasn’t able to provide
funding while  General Motors Co. (GM) , a former owner, said it would
block the proposed tie-up, parent company  Swedish Automobile NV 
said today in a statement.  “There’s no doubt this is the blackest day in my career,”
Chief Executive Officer Victor Muller said at a press conference
today at Saab Auto headquarters in Trollhaettan. The company’s
workforce totals about 3,600 employees, including 3,400 in the
southeastern Swedish town.  Muller has been seeking funding for Saab since his
Zeewolde, Netherlands-based company, then named Spyker Cars NV,
 bought  it in February 2010 from Detroit-based GM, which was
about to shutter the brand. Muller was in talks earlier this
month with potential Chinese financial backers, including
Zhejiang Youngman Lotus Automobile.  The court said in an online  statement  that it accepted the
petition and appointed two Gothenburg, Sweden-based attorneys,
Hans Bergqvist and Anne-Marie Pouteaux, as administrators.  GM’s Role  GM, which still has a say in Saab’s strategy because of the
carmakers’ technology ties, said on Dec. 17 that recent
proposals for rescuing Saab were similar to earlier plans that
it had rejected as being “detrimental to GM and its
shareholders.”  The U.S. carmaker “made it clear it would not approve of a
transaction involving Youngman,” while difficulties with rules
on transferring funds out of  China  prevented a financing deal,
Muller said today.  Muller said that he received “two or three” expressions
of interest today from potential buyers, and that he’ll refer
them to the bankruptcy administrator that the court appoints.  “Although this may seem like the end, it is not
necessarily so,” he said.  Saab Auto traces its roots back to the establishment of
aircraft manufacturer Svenska Aeroplan AB, which was set up in
1937 and began building cars 10 years later. The auto business
was split off from the aerospace operations, now called Saab AB,
in the 1990s, with GM gaining a 50 percent stake in 1990 and
full control in 2000.  Missed Targets  Muller set targets for Saab to sell 120,000 vehicles and
become profitable by 2012. Deliveries, which peaked at 133,000
cars in 2006, never met intermediate goals. Sales totaled 31,696
cars in 2010, compared with a target of 50,000 to 60,000.  The Swedish carmaker’s production lines have been largely
suspended since March as the company fell behind on paying
suppliers. Saab won protection from creditors in September. Guy Lofalk, its court-appointed administrator, applied on Dec. 7 to
end the reorganization, saying the carmaker was out of money and
had no realistic hope of gaining financing soon.  “Saab is so central to Trollhaettan,” said Perry
Svensson, a  taxi driver  in the city who worked at Saab as a
welder in the 1980s and whose sister is an assembly-line worker
there. “We already have high unemployment here, and this
certainly doesn’t help.”  The government of  Sweden  pays wages of employees of 
bankrupt companies for a limited time. Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  said at a Stockholm press conference today that the 
state will work to help Saab’s workers “move on to other parts 
of the labor market.”  Stock Plunges  Swedish Automobile  plunged  62 percent to 8 cents at the
close in Amsterdam. Shares in the Dutch manufacturer, which
makes the $235,000 Spyker C8 Aileron supercar, have dropped 98
percent this year, valuing the company at 2.9 million euros
($3.8 million).  Muller was pursuing a 600 million-euro loan from Youngman
and a Chinese bank following a failed attempt earlier this year
to sell a stake to the Jinhua-based carmaker and auto dealer
Pang Da Automobile Trade Co.  Other suitors whose talks have collapsed this year include
Russian banker  Vladimir Antonov , a former Spyker investor
seeking to return after GM’s terms of Saab Auto’s sale forced
him out, and Hawtai Motor Group, another Chinese company.  Saab’s suppliers, which total about 900 companies including
75 in Sweden, are unlikely to close as a result of the
carmaker’s collapse because its production suspension since
March allowed them to adapt, Fredrik Sidahl, CEO of the FKG
Swedish car-industry supplier association, said in a phone
interview.  Suppliers ‘Prepared’  “All the suppliers have prepared themselves for this
possibility,” Sidahl said. “Still, I’m worried about the
future of Sweden’s auto industry.”  Volvo Car Corp., the Swedish automaker owned by Zhejiang
Geely Holding Group Co., also doesn’t expect any big effects on
component makers from Saab’s disappearance from the market, said
Per-Ake Froberg, a spokesman at the manufacturer.  Saab’s creditors include the  European Investment Bank , the
investment arm of the European Union. The state’s collateral is
enough to cover Sweden’s guarantee on the EIB’s 2 billion-krona
($290 million) loan,  Bo Lundgren , head of the  Swedish National
Debt Office , said at the government press conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Trollhaettan, Sweden, at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  