-- Hainan Home Bubble Pops as Curbs Deflate Prices
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-20T05:23:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/sanya-home-bubble-pops-as-property-curbs-deflate-prices-in-china-s-hawaii.html
Zhu Lei, a property agent for the
Serenity Coast luxury residential and hotel complex in Sanya on
 China ’s Hainan island, recalls clients carrying suitcases of
cash to shop for holiday apartments last year.  “We didn’t even have time for toilet breaks because there
were just too many clients,” Zhu said. Today, sales in the
second-biggest city on the tropical island compared to Hawaii
for its sandy beaches and weather, are “bleak,” he said.  A two-year lending binge and the government’s plan to
transform Hainan, in the  South China Sea , into an international
tourism destination helped fuel a 48 percent surge in Sanya’s
home prices last year, making it the nation’s best-performing
 property market . As China in 2011 switched gears with policies
such as increased deposit requirements designed to curb
speculation, Sanya’s  home prices  have dropped 28 percent since
last December.  “It was really no different to what was driving prices in
other cities in China, which was an explosion of liquidity that
caused asset inflation across the country,” said Patrick Chovanec, an associate professor at Tsinghua University’s School
of Economics and Management in Beijing.  China spent 4 trillion yuan ($628 billion) to shield its
economy as credit markets froze when Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. collapsed in September 2008. It also encouraged banks to
lend out a record $2.7 trillion in 2009 and 2010, fueling a
surge in home prices and construction that it’s now battling to
restrain after warning of an asset bubble.  Prices Plunge  While the rest of China hasn’t experienced a property
collapse since people were given ownership of their previously
state-owned homes in 1998,  Hainan , part of about 200 islands
that make up China’s smallest province with the same name, is in
the midst of its second rout in 20 years.  Residential property prices in Sanya fell 28 percent in
November from a record high of 32,020 yuan per square meter
(10.76 square feet) last December, according to  Centaline
Property Agency Ltd. , China’s biggest real-estate brokerage.
Sales fell 52 percent in October to 36,600 square meters from
last year, and more than 80 percent of buyers are not locals,
the brokerage said.  Zhu, the realtor, sells high-end apartments in eight
buildings with ocean views or overlooking golf courses in the
Serenity Coast complex, which is still being built and will
include five-star hotels, a  music hall  and water park. Zhu said
only about 70 units were sold during the week-long October
holiday, which “couldn’t be compared with last year,”
declining to give the 2010 sales figure.  Holiday Homes  A three-bedroom apartment in the luxury development sells
for about 49,000 yuan per square meter on average, while a
penthouse could cost as much as 13.8 million yuan. The Serenity
Marina in the project will be the host port and race village for
the  Volvo Ocean yacht race  in February.  Globally, it’s the luxury holiday property sector of the
real estate market that typically is first to fall and often
drops the most when property markets sour, Jeremy Helsby, chief
executive officer at Savills Plc, the U.K.’s biggest brokerage,
said in an interview in  Shanghai .  “You get what we call the froth of the market: it’s the
first bit of the cappuccino you drink,” he said. “It tastes
very good, but when the market goes down, the froth goes very
quickly.”  In the U.S., Miami-area homes are selling for about half
their December 2006 peak, according to the  S&P/Case-Shiller
index . Sanya is on about the same latitude as  Hawaii  and Miami.  Tourism Center  The government unveiled a plan in December 2009 to build
Hainan into an international tourism center. Hotel chains such
as Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. and Marriott
International Inc. line up along Yalong Bay, to Sanya’s east.  The island has hosted the Boao Forum for  Asia , a gathering
of government and business leaders modeled on the  World Economic
Forum  and the forum in Davos,  Switzerland . It also is home to
Hainan Airlines Co., backed by billionaire  George Soros .  China’s home prices declined in 49 of 70 cities in November
from October, the worst performance this year, after the
government expanded efforts to curb the risk of an asset bubble
by raising down-payment and mortgage requirements. It also
imposed home purchase restrictions in about 40 cities including
Sanya and Haikou, the provincial capital of Hainan.  Hainan, with an economy largely dependent on property and
tourism, said the real estate industry grew 2 percent in the
third quarter, 32 percentage points lower than the same period
last year. About 58 percent of Sanya’s fiscal revenue came from
real-estate taxes last year, about the same as for the entire
province.  Few Pillars  “Some areas in China are oversupplied in real estate, and
the correction will be pretty big,” said  Huang Yiping , a Hong
Kong-based economist for Barclays Capital Research in a phone
interview. He forecast China’s nationwide home prices will fall
by 10 to 30 percent next year.  “Hainan is particularly vulnerable as it depends heavily
on property and doesn’t have many other pillars to diversify
risks,” said Zhang Zhiwei, Hong Kong-based chief China
economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. “It’s only a matter of time
until the slowdown in the property market affects China’s public
financing adversely.”  About 20 percent of the properties in eastern Hainan
including in Sanya may end up unfinished, said Huang Hong, a
researcher at Centaline’s Hainan branch.  “Those homes are usually with high prices and no buyers
these days,” Huang said. The peak property sales season for
Sanya, usually in winter, won’t occur this year because buyers
are in a wait-and-see mode as they watch the direction of the
government’s policies, he said.  Clearwater Bay   Agile Property Holdings Ltd. (3383) , the developer in which
JPMorgan Chase & Co. has a 4.75 percent stake, has its biggest
project in Sanya. The Clearwater Bay is a 20 billion-yuan
investment including residential apartments, villas, five-star
hotels, a yacht club, shopping mall and golf course. The
project, which accounted for 31 percent of the developer’s total
sales last year, is expected by the company to account for
around 20 percent this year as sales slow.  Still, the developer hasn’t “really cut prices” at the
Hainan project, Alex Liu, the company’s vice president, said in
an interview. He said demand for holiday homes will remain as
the country’s middle class grows.  Buyers from Beijing, Shanghai and other mainland cities
make up the majority of Agile’s customers, Liu said. About 70
percent of them pay the full sum in cash, he said.  Warmer Weather  Agile shares fell 0.6 percent in  Hong Kong  at midday break,
while  KWG Property Holdings Ltd. (1813) , the Guangzhou-based luxury
home developer which also has projects in Hainan, dropped 1.6
percent to the lowest in three weeks.  The tropical island’s average temperature in summer is
around 27 degrees Celsius (81 Fahrenheit) to 29 degrees Celsius.
Its winter average of 19.2 degrees Celsius compares with 6.9
degrees Celsius in Shanghai and minus 2.9 degrees Celsius in the
capital city of Beijing.  “There are tourist-type visits in some showflats, but it
doesn’t turn to property deals,” wrote Citigroup Inc. analysts
led by Oscar Choi in a Dec. 14 report. “Interest in Hainan
property is still here, but that hinges on overall investment
sentiment and it is not the right time now.”  Bubble Pop  Housing prices on the 34,000 square-kilometer (13,127
square-mile) island jumped by as much as 6,500 yuan per square
meter in 1993 after it was spun off from  Guangdong province  as
China’s biggest Special Economic Zone, according to Mizuho
Securities Asia Ltd. Prices in Beijing and Shanghai were around
2,000 yuan to 3,000 yuan at the time.  When the bubble popped in 1995 as Beijing tightened
monetary policy and prodded banks into canceling loans, some
developers went bankrupt, leaving unfinished real estate
projects and a decade-long subdued market in Hainan.  Chen Zheng, a Sanya resident and property agent who lived
through the 1990s bubble, said the government’s incentives to
boost the island’s tourism industry and the increasing wealth in
China will help Sanya’s prices avoid an all out crash.  “I don’t think today is like 20 years ago, when there was
just nothing to sustain the market but speculation,” he said.
“But for sure, last year’s boom has gone forever.”  --Bonnie Cao. With assistance from Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong.
Editors: Malcolm Scott, Andreea Papuc  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  