-- Saudi King Abdullah Calls for a Closer Arab Gulf Union
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2011-12-19T18:21:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/saudi-king-abdullah-calls-for-a-closer-arab-gulf-union-1-.html
Saudi Arabia ’s King Abdullah called
on leaders of the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council to
strengthen their alliance into a united “single entity” as
they confront threats to national security.  “I ask you today to move from a stage of cooperation to a
stage of union in a single entity,” Abdullah said at the
opening session of a GCC meeting in Riyadh in comments aired on
Saudi state television. “No doubt, you all know we are targeted
in our security and stability.”  The GCC leaders’ two-day summit may focus on measures
needed against Iran and the impact of unrest in Syria. The
gathering of the group, led by Saudi Arabia and allied to the
U.S., comes amid rising tensions between  Iran  and the U.S.,
which is increasing pressure over the Iranian nuclear program.  Sunni Muslim monarchs in the Gulf have accused Shiite
Muslim-led Iran of seeking to foment unrest among the Shiite
population in GCC states including  Bahrain , where Saudi Arabia
and other members sent troops to help put down a Shiite
uprising. Iran denies interference and accuses Sunni rulers in
Bahrain and Saudi Arabia of discriminating against Shiites.  ‘Reasons to Unify’  The idea for a greater political union started “during and
after the Bahrain crisis,” said Jamal Khashoggi, former editor-
in-chief of Saudi Arabia’s Al Watan newspaper and now head of a
television news channel being started by Saudi Prince Alwaleed
Bin Talal. “There is a feeling in the GCC, when you are rich
with little power, that there are reasons to unify.” The king’s
call for unity may lead to more “coordinated” foreign and
monetary policies, he said.  The GCC was established in 1981 as an economic and
political grouping of Saudi Arabia, the  United Arab Emirates ,
 Kuwait , Qatar, Oman and Bahrain. Four of the GCC states are
working toward a single currency, a goal originally intended to
be achieved by the end of 2010. The establishment of the
currency has been postponed indefinitely, al-Awsat newspaper
reported yesterday, citing Abdullah Al-Shebli, assistant
secretary-general for economic affairs at the GCC Secretariat  The GCC said in May that it may admit the Arab monarchies
of Jordan and  Morocco  to the group, which has held out against
pro-democracy movements sweeping across the region. In March,
the GCC agreed to provide Oman and Bahrain with $10 billion each
over a 10-year period to help meet protesters’ demands for
higher  living standards .  ‘Front’ Against Iran  Saudi Arabia is trying to “create a unified front against
Iran,”  Theodore Karasik , director of research at the Dubai-
based Institute for Near East and Gulf Military Analysis, said
in a phone interview. “The Saudis are also trying to put
forward a foreign-policy model that other GCC members will
hopefully accept.”  The summit follows a year that has brought unprecedented
political change to the Arab world as popular movements swept
away governments in Tunisia, Egypt and  Libya . Saudi Arabia and
other Gulf oil producers, excluding Bahrain, haven’t experienced
the same political instability this year. Abdullah announced a
$130 billion spending plan in the first quarter in response to
the spread of unrest in the  Middle East .  The Gulf states will try to curb Iranian power by
“tightening up sanctions,”  Paul Sullivan , a political
scientist specializing in Middle East security at  Georgetown
University  in  Washington , said in an e-mailed response to
questions before the summit. He said they are also cultivating
ties “with the U.S., European Union states and others, to have
better backup against Iran just in case.”  Saudi-Iranian Meeting  Prince Nayef, Saudi Arabia’s interior minister and crown
prince, met Iranian Intelligence Minister Heydar Moslehi in
 Riyadh  as relations deteriorated, the official Saudi Press
Agency reported on Dec. 12.  Tensions between predominantly Sunni Saudi Arabia and
Shiite Iran have escalated this year. On Oct. 11, the U.S.
accused Iran of plotting to assassinate Adel Al-Jubeir, the
Saudi ambassador in Washington. A week earlier, Saudi Arabia
accused an unidentified foreign country of seeking to undermine
the stability of the kingdom after an attack on security forces
in the Shiite village of Awwamiya.  Oil prices  may surge by $40 a barrel if international
sanctions halt supplies from Iran, Bank of America Corp. said,
amid signs that an alliance of nations is preparing tougher
measures against the Persian Gulf producer. The European Union
added 180 Iranian officials and companies to a blacklist this
month to intensify pressure on Iran over its nuclear program,
after the U.S. imposed stiffer penalties in November.  Talks on  Syria   The GCC leaders are also set to discuss Syria, whose
government agreed today to an  Arab League  proposal that will
allow monitors into the country to verify compliance with
measures to halt violence against protesters. The UN said more
than 5,000 people have been killed in the nine-month uprising
against President Bashar al-Assad.  Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest oil-producer and
typically a supporter of Arab leaders challenged by popular
movements, spoke out against Assad’s crackdown. The Syrian
president and most top security officials are Alawites,
affiliated with Shiism, while most Syrians are Sunnis.  “The Gulf position on Syria is that they would like to see
the emergence of a Sunni state more aligned with them,” Karasik
said before the start of the summit. The Arab League imposed
sanctions on Syria on Nov. 27, increasing economic and political
pressure on Assad.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  