-- Saudis Chase Khat-Runners on Yemen’s Border as Unrest Drives Migrant Wave
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2011-12-20T13:41:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/saudis-chase-khat-runners-on-yemen-s-border-as-unrest-drives-migrant-wave.html
Three men sprint across the sand-
swept asphalt road along the frontier between  Saudi Arabia  and
Yemen. Colonel Abdullah Bin Mahfouz gets a glimpse of them from
his car, before they disappear into the desert bush.  The 28-year veteran of the Saudi Border Guard shrugs. “Our
intelligence will pick them up,” he says. “We expect anything,
any time. It’s very difficult.”  People, drugs and weapons are flooding into Saudi Arabia
after 10 months of unrest drove Yemen close to civil war. Saudi
authorities, concerned instability may spill into the world’s
biggest oil exporter, are stepping up security, building a chain
of border watchtowers and installing nighttime scanners at
hilltop bases. They are also backing a peace accord to stop
Yemen from becoming a failed state that could threaten tankers
in the  Gulf of Aden  and create a base for al-Qaeda attacks.  Jazan, where Mahfouz works, is one of four Saudi provinces
on the border, which runs through desert and rugged mountains
for 1,100 miles (1,800 kilometers), almost as long as the Texas-
Mexico frontier. In Jazan alone, authorities say they detained
239,000 illegal immigrants in the past year, up 37 percent from
last year. They didn’t give estimates for how many got through.  “You can’t imagine how many Yemenis are right now in Saudi
Arabia looking for work,” Khalid al-Dakhil, a political science
professor at  King Saud University  in Riyadh, said in a phone
interview. “The economic situation in Yemen is so miserable. If
you got a civil war, with the poverty in  Yemen , then you can
imagine how bad it is going to be for Saudi Arabia.”  ‘So Much to Lose’  That, he says is why the kingdom’s rulers have been “so
unreasonably patient with Ali Abdullah Saleh,” Yemen’s ruler
for three decades and the target of protests. “The Saudis
realize that Saleh is a nasty guy,” he said. “But what can you
do about it? He wants to fight, and if you give him a fight, he
has nothing to lose. But Saudi Arabia has so much to lose.”  Al-Qaeda militants based in Yemen, the home of Osama bin Laden’s ancestors, have attacked the kingdom in the past,
attempting to assassinate a top anti-terrorism official in 2009.
A series of attacks on Saudi oil installations and their foreign
workers helped double  oil prices  in the two years through
February 2006.  Saleh agreed last month to relinquish power after months of
wrangling over a Saudi-brokered accord, though there are
indications he’s still exerting political influence. The
agreement failed to end fighting between the security forces,
where key positions are held by Saleh relatives, and army units
that have defected to the opposition.  ‘They Come Right Back’  Hundreds of thousands demonstrated in Sana’a and other
cities on Dec. 16 to demand that the immunity offered to Saleh
under the Gulf Cooperation Council accord be removed and the
president punished for killing protesters. The army and
opposition militias are due to withdraw from the streets of the
capital this week under the agreement.  At the al-Mahdaf border-guard center, more than 100 men
caught that morning were being held in a tree-shaded outdoor
detention center and fingerprinted. Most will then be released.  “We return them and the Yemeni border guards let them
go,” said Captain Ibrahim al-Safhe said. “They come right
back.”  Zain Mohammed Munji, 20, admitted it was at least his
second crossing and said he was looking for work. “There are no
jobs in Sana’a, and prices have gone up a lot,” he said. Daif
al-Shwaih, 23, said he’d made four previous illegal trips to
Saudi Arabia, staying as long as three months and earning 50
riyals ($13) a day as a laborer.  Wealth Gap  Yahya Ali Ibrahim was caught with bundles of khat, a leafy
narcotic chewed in Yemen, stuffed into his shirt and pants. The
13-year-old said he had hoped to earn 250 riyals.  Yemen is the Arab world’s poorest country, while Saudi
Arabia is its biggest economy. Yemen’s government puts the cost
of this year’s unrest at more than $8 billion. Attacks on oil
pipelines have disrupted exports, and staple foods and fuels are
scarce. Output probably shrank about 2.5 percent this year and
inflation surged to 26 percent, according to International
Monetary Fund forecasts.  Gulf countries are planning financial assistance for Yemen,
Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal said today at a
meeting of the Gulf Cooperation Council in  Riyadh .  Saudi Arabia can afford a domestic spending spree as it
seeks to stay insulated from the revolts in Yemen,  Egypt  and
other Arab nations. It pumped 9.5 million barrels of oil a day
last month, when crude averaged $97 a barrel.  King Abdullah  has
pledged $130 billion in social spending.  Flowers, Daggers  As the wealth gap spurs migration, the Jeddah-based Saudi
Binladin Group is building a 280-kilometer border fence in
Jazan, Mahfouz said. Along with rifles, bullets, explosives and
hashish, border guards seized more than 3 million kilograms of
khat in the past year, an increase of 35 percent. Seizures of
illegal firearms more than tripled, and the amount of ammunition
confiscated rose more than tenfold, according to Mahfouz.  The province extends into mountains where the guards watch
Yemeni cars as they navigate rock-filled riverbeds and narrow
passes. In this remote region, the influence of Saudi Arabia’s
dominant culture, the austere Wahhabi sect of Islam, is less
pronounced. Some men and boys wear wreaths of flowers and herbs
in their hair, for the fragrance, and daggers in their belts.  Sea Patrols  Jazan has a coastline, too. The seaborne flow of drugs and
migrants on small, shallow-draft boats is combated by patrols
from a base on the Red Sea island of Farasan, where Colonel
Yahya Jabbary claims a 90 percent capture rate.  Fighting has spread from Yemen across the Jazan border in
the past. In November 2009, Saudi troops were drawn into the
five-year battle between Shiite Muslim Houthi rebels in northern
Yemen and Saleh’s government, and more than 100 were killed in
three months of clashes.  The Yemen conflict has raised concern that Saudi Arabia’s
neighbor could become like Somalia, across the Gulf of Aden and
without a functioning administration since 1991. Somalia has
become a staging post for pirates who have attacked ships
including Saudi supertanker the Sirius Star.  “If Yemen becomes a failed state, then oil and other
traffic via the straits of Aden become riskier and more
expensive,”  Paul Sullivan , a specialist in Middle East security
at  Georgetown University  in  Washington , said in an e-mail. An
unstable Yemen “pulls out defense and other resources that
could be used to focus on other issues” in Saudi Arabia.  Tanker Traffic  Attacks on vessels by Somali pirates operating in the Gulf
of Aden and the  Indian Ocean , through which 28,000 ships a year
and some 12 percent of the world’s oil pass, rose to a record in
the first half this year, according to the  International
Maritime Organization .  Africans who entered Yemen via its unpatrolled coastline
account for some of the cross-border traffic, Saudi guards say.
Several were among those being held in Jazan after trying to
enter Saudi Arabia.  Another detainee was the 13-year-old smuggler Yahya Ali,
who will be sent back to Yemen in the morning. “Both my parents
are dead,” he said. “I need the money.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glen Carey in Jazan at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  