-- HSBC May Save $1.5 Billion on Loss-Absorbing Capital Requirement
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2011-12-20T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/hsbc-may-save-1-5-billion-as-u-k-dilutes-rule-on-loss-absorbing-capital.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s largest
bank by market value, may escape $1.5 billion of additional
costs after the government diluted plans requiring British
lenders to raise extra loss-absorbing capital.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said yesterday
banks must sell securities capable of absorbing the equivalent
of a minimum of 17 percent of risk-weighted assets worldwide,
backing the recommendations of the Independent Commission on
Banking. Osborne said the rule would apply to U.K. assets and to
non-U.K. assets except where banks “can demonstrate they do not
pose a threat to U.K. taxpayers.”  That may allow HSBC to avoid as much as 75 percent of the
$2.1 billion the bank said it would cost, according to Arun Melmane, a banking analyst at Investec Securities in London.
HSBC and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , London-based banks that make
most of their profit in  Asia , have been urged by shareholders to
consider leaving because of high costs.  “HSBC and Standard Chartered have one less reason to
redomicile,” said Gary Greenwood, a banking analyst at Shore
Capital in Liverpool. “It will benefit HSBC and Standard
Chartered, but these are banks that aren’t likely to need that
legislation to make them safer, so you aren’t increasing the
risk profile of the industry by choosing this.”  HSBC Estimate  HSBC said it welcomed the “further clarity” from the
government. “A great deal of detailed work is still required
before the principles can be put into practice,” HSBC Chairman
 Douglas Flint  said in a statement. A spokesman for Standard
Chartered, Jon Tracey, said the bank “will continue to engage
with the government on this.”  If the rule would have been applied to assets globally, HSBC
would need to sell about $55 billion of loss-absorbing debt that
“we do not need” at an annual cost of about $2.1 billion,
Finance Director Iain Mackay said on a call with journalists on
Nov. 9. The cost includes raising the money and the extra
interest the debt would have to pay investors.  The debt costs are a “very explicit cost of being U.K.
headquartered,” HSBC Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver 
told members of the House of Commons and House of Lords in
London on Nov. 1. The bank was discussing the issue with the
Treasury, Gulliver said.  The two companies faced calls from investors to consider
moving after the U.K. government imposed a bank levy last year
to raise 2.5 billion pounds ($3.9 billion) from lenders.  Hong
Kong  would “absolutely” welcome HSBC and Standard Chartered if
they decided to move headquarters to the former British
territory, CEO  Donald Tsang  said in September.  U.K. Balance Sheet  HSBC could avoid 60 percent to 75 percent of the projected
$2.1 billion cost if only the U.K. balance sheet is considered,
said Melmane, assuming about half the bank’s $1.3 trillion of
European assets reside in the U.K.  “There’ll be technicalities on what the wholesale funded
part of the balance sheet is and how they book it, but based on
disclosures I think that would be a fair estimate,” he said.  The ICB’s proposals on loss-absorbing capital were “flawed
in both math and logic,”  Standard Chartered  CEO  Peter Sands 
told Parliament on Dec. 14. The bank levy and additional
regulations in the U.K. would cost the lender “north” of $500
million a year, he said.  Standard Chartered has no retail operations in the U.K. and
could “get away Scot-free,” Melmane said. The rule gives banks
the freedom to book assets in different countries, minimizing
the overall impact and the additional bonds required, he said.  Vickers’s Proposals  “The devil will be in the detail” regarding how the
government decides to measure how much loss-absorbing debt will
be needed, said Melmane. For HSBC, more of the investment bank
resides in the U.K., “so they won’t get away with all costs,
but it will be much cheaper.”  The ICB proposals, published in September by a panel led by
 John Vickers , the  Bank of England ’s former chief economist, are
part of the government’s effort to prevent another financial
crisis and shield the taxpayer from future bailouts.  Chris Leslie, a spokesman for the opposition  Labour Party 
on financial matters, called for annual updates by Vickers on
whether the government is properly implementing his proposals.  Vickers proposed that banks build firebreaks between their
consumer and investment operations. Businesses within the
firewall will handle all checking accounts, mortgages, credit
cards and lending to small and medium-sized companies. As much
as a third of U.K. bank assets, or about 2.3 trillion pounds,
will be included, according to the recommendations.  Trading and investment-banking activities will be outside
the firewalls.  Standard & Poor’s  said Sept. 14 those elements of
U.K. banks face credit-ratings cuts as they won’t be able to
count on government support.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  