-- Scene Last Night: Vuitton, Margo Lion for Young People’s Chorus
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2011-12-19T15:34:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/scene-last-night-vuitton-margo-lion-andy-spahn-young-people-s-chorus.html
The  Young People’s Chorus  of  New
York City  performed Friday night at the Louis Vuitton shop on
Fifth Avenue to celebrate a grant from the North American arm of
the luxury brand.  Among the attendees were Broadway producer Margo Lion,
Hollywood corporate-affairs executive Andy Spahn and Jean
Shafiroff, whose husband, Martin Shafiroff, works at Barclays
Capital Inc. The refreshments included red-velvet-cake petit
fours and miniature Rice Krispies Treats.  Wearing their standard (non-Louis Vuitton) performance garb
-- blue button-downs and brightly colored scarves for the girls,
ties and blazers for the boys -- the young people sang Christmas
carols from a stairwell, surrounded by displays of luggage and
handbags.  They also performed a new song that they helped write,
drawing inspiration from a  Louis Vuitton  commercial titled “A
Journey.”  The ad, a short film by French director Bruno Aveillan,
consists of serene black-and-white footage of desert, rivers and
mountains.  Some sample lyrics: “Dreaming on, my song keeps moving ...
Where my heart goes is where I’ll be.”  “We’ve adapted the theme of journey for this year,” said
Francisco Nunez, the founder and artistic director of the
chorus.  The New York-area singers are well-traveled: they have
performed in  Japan , in the  Dominican Republic  and at the White
House.  On their second visit to the White House last month, they
received a National Arts and Humanities Youth Program Award,
presented by the  President’s Committee on the Arts and the
Humanities . Lion is co-chairman of the committee and Spahn is a
member.  Grant Created  Louis Vuitton’s North American arm is a supporter of the
committee’s awards program.  “We met in  Washington ,” said the Louis Vuitton unit’s
president and chief executive officer, Valerie Chapoulaud-
Floquet. “Afterward, we decided to go further, and create a
grant.”  The Louis Vuitton Inspiration Grant -- the company declines
to specify the amount -- will be given annually to one of the 12
winners of the National Arts and Humanities Youth Program Award.
Louis Vuitton is also supporting a series of PCAH/LV arts-
education conversations across the country.  “What we share is excellence,” said Nunez. “Coming here
to perform, it’s not about the purse or the shoe, the kids know
that. It’s being taken seriously as artists.”  On the Bus  In any case the kids, who were served strawberry-rhubarb
lemonade, had little time to peruse the merchandise. Moments
after their final note, they were on a bus being transported
uptown for a sold-out concert at the 92nd Street Y.  “I feel like people think the arts are distracting,” said
chorus member Nicholas Leung, 15, of  Manhattan . “But for me,
performing helps me stay focused. It keeps the brain thinking
about things.”  Noni Murphy, 16, of Bayside, Queens, agreed. “I was
studying body parts in biology, and to help me memorize them for
a test, I made a song out of it,” she said.  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 