-- Sexy Venetians, Pissarro Cocotte, Grandiloquent Serra: Arts
-- B y   S t e p h e n   W e s t
-- 2011-12-19T14:03:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/sexy-venetians-pisarro-cocotte-grandiloquent-serra-s-f-art.html
The wistful young man in a red
tunic, with frizzy brown hair encircling his face like a halo,
holds an arrow in his right hand, feather-end up. Is he a
soldier’s page? Cupid?  Next to him a serious young woman, hair parted severely in
the middle, looks to one side as she opens her rich fur-lined
coat to reveal her breast.  The two enigmatic portraits by Giorgione from the early
1500s are highlights of  “Masters of Venice,”  a remarkable
exhibition of Renaissance art now on view in  San Francisco . They
demonstrate the hallmarks of the Venetian style: soft-focus
brushwork, theatrical flourish and gorgeous color.  The paintings, on loan from the Kunsthistorisches Museum in
Vienna, include works by Titian, Tintoretto, Mantegna, Veronese
and others. (Pictures by Bellini are too fragile to travel.)
Along with portraits of elegantly dressed aristocrats and stern
generals in glittering armor, there are religious and
mythological scenes and no shortage of fleshy female nudes.  Mantegna’s famous “Saint Sebastian” (1457-59), with the
martyr tied to a marble column and pierced by arrows, has the
crisp physicality of a piece of sculpture. It represents the old
school of Florentine-influenced painting.  Giorgione and his pupil Titian, and the younger generation
of Tintoretto and Veronese, created an art of drama and
movement. Titian’s “The Bravo (The Assassin)” captures the
moment when Bacchus, wearing a crown of grape leaves, is
arrested by a sinister figure holding a dagger behind his back.  Tintoretto’s “Portrait of a Man in Gold-Trimmed Armor”
presents the sort of figure who made the Venetian Republic a
dominant military and economic power.  “Masters of  Venice ” runs through Feb. 12 at the de Young
Museum, 50 Hagiwara Tea Garden Dr., Golden Gate Park.
Information: +1-415-750-3600;  http://www.famsf.org .  “Pissarro’s People”  Camille Pissarro, best known for his Impressionist
landscapes and colorful views of Parisian boulevards, is
presented in a different light in  “Pissarro’s People”  at San
Francisco’s Legion of Honor museum.  The show, featuring more than 100 paintings and drawings
from museums and private collections around the world, includes
portraits and domestic scenes of his large family, three
striking self-portraits, and studies of servants, working women
and rural laborers that underscore the artist’s left-wing
politics before and after the Franco-Prussian War and the Paris
Commune of 1871.  Bookish Cocotte  In “Jeanne Pissarro, Called Cocotte, Reading” (1899) the
artist’s daughter wears a long black dress covered by a full-
length apron as she sits on a sofa reading her book. It’s a
quiet scene that gains visual energy from the contrasting colors
and textures of the upholstered furniture, oriental rug and busy
wallpaper.  In “The Marketplace” (1882), one of Pissarro’s many
images of the rural working class, the figures are jammed
together in a deep perspective, yet they retain a monumental,
almost heroic quality as they go about their ordinary business.  “Pissarro’s People” was co-organized by the  Sterling and
Francine Clark Art Institute  in Williamstown,  Massachusetts , and
runs through Jan. 22 at the Legion of Honor, 100 34th Ave.,
Lincoln Park. Information: +1-415-750-3600;
 http://www.famsf.org/legion .  Serra Drawings  Richard Serra, who makes gigantic rusted-steel sculptures
that play tricks with the viewer’s sense of space, is also a
prolific draftsman. About 70 of his drawings (along with a few
related sculptures) are on view at the San Francisco Museum of
Modern Art.  The works convey Serra’s love of the grand gesture -- big
black circles, wall-size rectangles of thick black paint --while
some of the smaller drawings are obsessively filled with
handwritten words about making art (“to roll, to crease, to
fold ...”). Some are studies for sculptural works in progress,
and all proclaim their status as Important Art.  “Richard Serra Drawing: A Retrospective” runs through
Jan. 16 at the San Francisco Museum of  Modern Art , 151 Third St.
Information: +1-415-357-4000;  http://www.sfmoma.org . Organized
by the Menil Collection in Houston, where it opens March 2.  Exuberant Indians  “Maharaja: The Splendor of India’s Royal Courts,”  at the
Asian Art Museum, depicts the princely lifestyle in almost 200
works, including paintings, drawings, sculptures, furniture,
clothing, musical instruments and jewelry. The show is full of
exuberant energy, bright colors, sumptuous textures and an
aesthetic in which more is more, and even more is even better.  Among the jam-packed paintings is “Procession of Maharao
Ram Singh II of Kota” (about 1850), in which the bejeweled
leader is accompanied by a pair of elephants, dancing girls and
a well-dressed honor guard toting both swords and rifles.  “Maharaja” was organized by the Victoria and Albert
Museum in  London  and runs through April 8 at the Asian Art
Museum, 200 Larkin St. Information: +1-415-581-3500;
 http://www.asianart.org .  (Stephen West is an editor for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
Stephen West in San Francisco at 
 smwest@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 