-- Siemens Hires Former U.S. Afghanistan Commander McChrystal
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2011-12-19T15:17:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/siemens-hires-former-afghanistan-commander-stanley-mcchrystal.html
Siemens AG ,  Europe ’s largest
engineering company, hired Stanley McChrystal, a former
commander of U.S. forces in  Afghanistan , for a new unit
seeking U.S. government contracts.  McChrystal, 57, will serve as chairman of Siemens
 Government Technologies , which spans security systems to
engineering software for defense equipment, the Munich-based
company said in a statement today. Siemens appointed former U.S.
Army Lieutenant General John Sylvester and Robert Coutts, a
former  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  executive, as board members.  “General McChrystal brings us tremendous knowledge from a
soldier’s perspective and from a policy perspective,” Judy Marks, president and chief executive officer of the government
technology unit, said in a telephone interview. “He is the
perfect fit.”  Siemens set up the unit headed by Marks, a former Lockheed
Martin executive, on Oct. 1 to get more contracts for
transportation systems, as well as energy and health care
equipment. The company partnered with  Boeing Co (BA) . to jointly
develop smart-grid technologies to improve energy access and
security for the U.S. Department of Defense. The government
technologies unit is based in Arlington, Virginia.  Siemens also created a division on Oct. 1 for
infrastructure solutions catering to municipal clients.  U.S. Government Work  Siemens generated 14.4 billion euros ($18.8 billion) of
 sales  in the U.S. in the fiscal year ended Sept. 30, or about
20 percent of total revenue. Siemens generates just more than
5 percent of its U.S. revenue from the government, and plans
to double that number in four years, Marks said.  As of Sept. 30, the company had 56,000 employees in the
country.  President  Barack Obama  ousted McChrystal in June last year
for making belittling remarks about administration officials
just over a year after he was entrusted with salvaging a losing
war in Afghanistan, replaced him with General David Petraeus.  McChrystal sits on the boards of Navistar International
Corp., the maker of International brand trucks, and JetBlue
Airways Corp. He also serves as senior fellow at  Yale
University ’s Jackson Institute for Global Affairs, where he
teaches courses in global affairs and leadership.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  