-- South Korea Stocks, Won Slide on North Korea ‘Turmoil’ Risk as Leader Dies
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2011-12-19T06:33:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/south-korean-won-bonds-decline-after-death-of-north-sw-leader-kim-jong-il.html
South Korea ’s stocks dropped the
most in five weeks and the won sank to more than a two-month low
after the death of North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il  sparked
concern there will be a power struggle in the communist nation.  A government statement called on North Koreans to “loyally
follow” Kim Jong Un, one of Kim Jong Il’s sons. Stocks and
currencies extended losses in Asian markets because of concern
about instability in a nation that in 2009 defied threats of
United Nations sanctions to test nuclear arms. The North was
held responsible last year for the sinking of a South Korean
naval vessel as well as a deadly cross-border artillery attack.  “We could see a lot of internal turmoil in  North Korea ,”
Sandy Mehta, the Hong Kong-based chief executive officer of
Value Investment Principals Ltd., said in e-mailed comments.
“Long-term, with Kim Jong Il out of the picture, we could be
looking at a more rational country, which would be positive for
the Korean peninsula and the Asian region.”  The  Kospi (KOSPI)  index slumped 3.4 percent to close at 1,776.93 in
Seoul, the biggest decline since Nov. 10, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The won weakened 1.4 percent to 1,174.80
per dollar, earlier touching a level of 1,179.95 that was the
weakest it’s been since Oct. 7. Three-year bond futures declined
0.3 percent to 104.32, Korea Exchange prices show. The yield on
3.5 percent bonds due September 2016 advanced nine basis points,
or 0.09 percentage point, to 3.57 percent.  ‘Geopolitical Risks’  “The report is heightening geopolitical risks of South
Korea, and we expect to see investors shying away from the won
for some time,” said Yun Se Min, a Seoul-based currency dealer
at Busan Bank. “There is speculation the Korean government
intervened to curb losses as the won fell to 1,175.”  Shares of companies that produce military supplies in South
Korea rallied.  Speco Co. (013810) , a defense equipment manufacturer,
Victek Co., which makes electronic warfare equipment, and Huneed
Technologies, a military communications equipment manufacturer,
all rallied by the daily limit of 15 percent.  Kim, 70, died on Dec. 17 of exhaustion brought on by a
sudden illness while on a domestic train trip, the official
Korean Central News Agency said. The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of
shares slumped 1.9 percent and the Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia
Dollar Index -- which tracks the region’s 10 most-used
currencies excluding the yen -- fell 0.4 percent.  “Political uncertainty in North Korea is putting Asian
investors on guard,” said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , chief
strategist at SMC Wealth Management Services Ltd. in  New Delhi .
“The market is sensing fresh tensions may break out on the
Korean peninsula.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  