-- South Korea Rating Safe Even as Kim Death Raises Risks, Moody’s, S&P Says
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2011-12-19T09:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/south-korea-rating-safe-even-as-kim-death-raises-risks-moody-s-s-p-says.html
The death of North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il  is unlikely to affect  South Korea ’s sovereign ranking
even as the event brings the risk of a difficult transition,
credit rating companies said.  Moody’s Investors Service will continue to rate South Korea
on economic and financial “fundamentals,”  Thomas Byrne , a
senior vice president in Singapore, said in a telephone
interview today.  Standard & Poor’s  ranking of the country has
taken into account “temporary disruptions in security risks,”
credit analyst Kim Eng Tan said in a separate interview.  Geopolitical threats posed by North Korea’s nuclear weapons
development and tests, and military attacks on its neighbor have
weighed on South Korea’s ratings. The leadership transition in
the North adds to risks for  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy, which
is already contending with slowing export growth as  Europe ’s
debt crisis dents global demand.  “We recognize that the collapse of the North Korean state
or an outbreak of war pose an event risk for South Korea, which
will have severe implications,” said Byrne, who served in South
Korea in the 1970s with the U.S.  Peace Corps . “We consider the
likelihood to be remote even under the current uncertain
situation.”  Military Backing  Kim Jong Il died two days ago and North Korea said its
people and military back Kim Jong Un, his third son, as leader
of the country of 24 million people.  Moody’s has an A1 rating on South Korea, while  Fitch
Ratings  last month raised its outlook on its A+ ranking to
positive. Both are the fifth-highest ratings of 10 investment-
grade levels, while S&P rates the nation’s debt one step lower
with an A ranking.  “Fitch does not view Kim Jong Il’s death as a trigger for
negative action on South Korea’s sovereign ratings in itself,”
 Andrew Colquhoun , head of Asia-Pacific sovereigns, said in an e-
mailed statement today. When changing the rating outlook, “we
pointed to the situation with the North as a potential source of
downside risk. For now, it’s much too early to say risks have
materially increased.”  South Korea called in police officers for emergency duty,
considered raising alert levels for the military and pledged
steps by the central bank if needed to stabilize financial
markets.  Security Risk  North Korean state media called for citizens to “loyally
follow” Kim Jong Un, thought to be 28 or 29, who is at the
“forefront of the revolution.” He was first mentioned in the
official Korean Central News Agency dispatches on Sept. 28, 2010,
when his appointments as general and vice chairman of the
Central Military Commission of the party were announced.  A succession that “isn’t smooth” and results in either a
security situation or a collapse of the North Korean regime will
have some “negative impact” on South Korean ratings, Tan of
S&P said.  “Our ratings take into account possible, temporary
disruptions in security risks,” he said. “As long as it is
temporary, there is no impact. The main thing we are looking for
now is smooth succession.”  Tensions on the peninsula have risen since attacks last
year that killed 50 South Koreans.  North Korea  shelled a South
Korean island in November 2010, killing four people. It has
denied an international report blaming Kim’s regime for the
torpedoing of a South Korean warship in March 2010 that killed
46 sailors.  Atomic Reactor  North Korea said last month it was making progress in
building a light-water atomic reactor and producing low-enriched
uranium. The U.S.,  Japan  and South Korea have all urged  China ,
North Korea’s biggest ally, to persuade it to return to six-
nation nuclear disarmament talks that were abandoned in April
2009.  South Korea’s economy expanded more than the central bank
initially estimated in the third quarter as exports of cars and
metal products increased. Gross domestic product grew 0.8
percent over the three months through September from the second
quarter, compared with an October estimate of 0.7 percent, the
 Bank of Korea  said Dec. 6.  “We don’t see any deterioration of the economic
fundamentals” for South Korea, Byrne said. “The government
finances are strong, the budget is in surplus, and government
debt is contained.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in  Singapore  at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  