-- Spanish Bad Loans Surge to Highest in 17 Years as Lending Falls: Economy
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2011-12-19T12:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/spain-bad-loans-ratio-jumps-to-7-42-in-october-lending-shrinks.html
Spanish banks reported more bad
loans and lower lending and deposits in October, hurt by the
fallout of the country’s property crash and the European
sovereign debt crisis.  The ratio of bad loans as a proportion of total lending
climbed to 7.42 percent, the highest level since 1994, from 7.16
percent in September and 5.68 percent a year earlier as the
value of borrowings in default rose to 131.9 billion euros
($171.9 billion), the Bank of  Spain  in  Madrid  said in a
statement today. Lending fell 2.5 percent from a year ago,
following a record 2.6 percent drop in September, and deposits
slid 2.2 percent to their lowest level since 2008.  Rising defaults and  declining loans  and deposits show how
banks are suffering from the fallout of Spain’s property slump
and a wider European debt crisis that has shut them out of
wholesale debt markets. Spain’s Prime Minister-elect Mariano Rajoy, who is making an inaugural speech to parliament today,
said that a “second wave” of restructuring of Spain’s banks is
inevitable, including more mergers.  “What we have been saying for a while, and I think the
banks themselves have been in denial on this, is that the asset
quality decline has not bottomed out yet because unemployment is
still going up,” said Inigo Lecubarri, who helps manage about
$300 million at Abaco Financials Fund in  London . “A non-
performing loans ratio of 7.4 percent is already very bad. Ten
percent would be catastrophic and it’s not impossible we could
get there.”  Restructuring  Rajoy has pledged a cleanup of the banking industry, which
is laboring under the weight of 176 billion euros of what of the
Bank of Spain terms “troubled” assets linked to real estate.
That’s curbing lending and restraining Spain’s economy, where
unemployment is 23 percent, the highest in the European Union.  Rajoy will push through the “culmination” of the
restructuring of the industry in the first six months of 2012 to
help credit flow, he told parliament today. He said banks must
cleanup their balance sheets by selling off finished property
and carrying out a “very prudent” valuation of less-liquid
assets such as land and unfinished real estate projects.  Euro Nervousness  Spanish bank deposits are shrinking at a time when lenders
are being forced to compete for funds between themselves and
also with the government, Lecubarri said. The backdrop of the
debate over the future of the euro doesn’t help, he said.  “The Spanish tend to trust their financial institutions in
general and haven’t tended to take their deposits out,” he
said, adding that he sees a greater risk of savings flight in
 Italy . Deposits by Italian households and companies excluding
banks fell an annual 0.6 percent in October, the most in five
months, the  Bank of Italy  said Dec. 7.  Rajoy, who is set to take office on Dec. 21 after an
election last month, said that Spain may miss its 2011 budget-
deficit target of 6 percent of gross domestic product. He said
the government needs to cut the deficit by 16.5 billion euros in
2012 and that his priority will be to stimulate economic growth
and employment.  European  construction output  fell for a third month in
October as production declined in  France  and the Netherlands,
data from the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg
showed today. Construction in the 17-nation euro region dropped
1.4 percent from September, when it fell a revised 1.5 percent,
which was the biggest drop since December 2010.  Separate data from  Asia  today also suggested weakening
demand. Japanese department store sales fell 1.9 percent in
November from the same month a year earlier, the Japan
Department Store Association said in  Tokyo .  In  New Zealand , reports showed consumer and business
confidence is weakening. An index of  household sentiment  fell to
101.3 this quarter from 112 in the three months through
September, Westpac Banking Corp. and McDermott Miller Ltd. said.
Business confidence sank for the fourth time in five months in
December, ANZ National Bank Ltd. said in a separate report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  