-- Spain Said to Summon Banks to Urge Borrowing of 3-Year ECB Money
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2011-12-19T17:29:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/spain-is-said-to-pressure-banks-to-borrow-funds-in-ecb-three-year-auction.html
The Bank of  Spain  is urging lenders
in the country to borrow all the funds they need when the
European Central Bank auctions three-year money tomorrow, said
two people familiar with a meeting held last week.  Central bank regulators met with treasurers on Dec. 15 to
encourage them to use the facility, telling them that the more
banks use the facility, the less chance there is of stigma for
taking the funds, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the meeting was private.  The ECB said on Dec. 8 it planned to offer unlimited
funding against collateral for as long as three years to free up
the flow of money in the financial system.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA (BBVA)  Chairman  Francisco Gonzalez  called for the ECB to
set up three-year lending operations so that banks can buy
public debt in a Nov. 28 column in Financial Times Deutschland.  “You can’t die twice and there is a strong incentive for
banks to go for this,” Inigo Lecubarri, who helps manage about
$300 million at Abaco Financials Fund in  London , said in a phone
interview. “There are institutions that don’t have access to
the market and are desperate for funds.”  The Dec. 15 meeting was led by  Javier Alonso , director of
operations, markets and payment systems at the central bank, one
of the people said. A spokesman for the Bank of Spain declined
to comment in an emailed response.  ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said he expects
“significant” demand for the bank’s three-year loans. “I cannot
put a figure to it, but I would think that it would be
significant,” Constancio told Bloomberg Television in an
interview in  Frankfurt  today. “It’s an important instrument for
banks. They face very high refinancing needs early next year
related to the repayment of medium-term debt.”  Banks are already borrowing the most from the ECB since
June 2009. The central bank  allotted  291.6 billion euros ($379
billion) to 197 bidders in a seven-day refinancing operation on
Dec. 13, up from 252.1 billion euros the week before.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net 
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net 
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  