-- Rajoy Pledges to Boost Spanish Growth as Cuts Raise Specter of Recession
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2011-12-19T14:31:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/spanish-power-handover-looms-as-rajoy-weighs-economy-danger-of-budget-cuts.html
Prime Minister-elect  Mariano Rajoy 
pledged to shrink Spain’s public sector and reduce spending to
tackle the euro area’s  third-largest budget deficit  without
saying how he’ll finance higher pensions and tax breaks.  “The one and only part of public spending that will
increase is pensions,” Rajoy told lawmakers in Madrid today.
“All other components may be reduced.” Pensions accounted for
112 billion euros ($146 billion) of spending in the 2011 budget.  Rajoy, whose  People’s Party  secured the biggest majority
any Spanish party has won since 1982 in Nov. 20 elections,
presented his program in Parliament today before taking office
on Dec. 21.  Rajoy, who defeated the ruling Socialists with a campaign
focused on the sovereign debt crisis, said he’ll freeze public
hiring and “reshape” the public sector as he seeks to meet a
pledge to regain investor confidence and recover  Spain ’s AAA
credit rating. Rajoy didn’t give details of how he will execute
the 16.5 billion euros in spending cuts that the outgoing
government’s budget plan shows are needed next year.  “We see where the additional spending will come from, but
I don’t see where the cuts will come from,” said  Gilles Moec ,
co-chief European economist at Deutsche Bank AG in  London .
“Increasing pensions is a bit surprising, I would like to see
more detail.”  Missing Target  Rajoy said he’ll announce spending cuts at his second
Cabinet meeting on Dec. 30 as Spain’s budget deficit may exceed
the outgoing government’s target of 6 percent of gross domestic
product this year. A new budget will be presented for 2012
before March 31, he said.  Rajoy said one of his first bills will be a law to flesh
out a constitutional amendment on budget discipline approved by
his party and the outgoing Socialists in September. The law will
call for the debt-to-GDP ratio to be cut to 60 percent by 2020
and for the structural public deficit to be limited to 0.4
percent of GDP, he said.  Rajoy inherits an economy which stalled in the third
quarter and may contract in the final three months of the year,
according to the Bank of Spain.  ‘Couldn’t Be Darker’  “Expectations for the next two quarters are not good at
all,” Rajoy said. With the economy “growing by half the rate
of the rest of the European Union,” Spain is “being left
behind” and “the outlook couldn’t be darker,” he said.  Spanish 10-year yields fell to 5.13 percent at 2:20 p.m. in
Madrid from 5.31 percent on Dec. 16, and as high as 6.78 percent
on Nov. 17, the most since 1997.  Adding to pressure on Rajoy,  Fitch Ratings  put six euro
members including Spain on review for a possible downgrade on
Dec. 16, saying a full solution to the debt crisis is
“technically and politically beyond reach.” Fitch, which
stripped Spain of its AAA rating in 2010, rates Spain AA-.  As well as spending cuts, Rajoy said the banking system
needs to be cleaned up as the industry tightens credit amid 176
billion euros of troubled assets linked to real estate.  He said banks would have to straighten out their balance
sheets by selling off finished property and carrying out a
“very prudent” valuation of less-liquid assets such as land
and unfinished real-estate projects.  Rajoy also pledged to overhaul the labor market in the
first quarter to give companies more flexibility on how they
organize and pay their staff.  Re-invested profits from companies will be taxed 10
percentage points less than those paid to shareholders and taxes
will be reduced for small enterprises, Rajoy said.  He told lawmakers his government would “improve” the tax
treatment of private pensions and bring back a tax rebate for
the purchase of homes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  