-- Sprint Sues Time Warner, Comcast Over Digital Phone Technology
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2011-12-19T22:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/sprint-sues-time-warner-comcast-over-digital-phone-technology.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the third-
largest U.S. wireless operator, accused  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) ,
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and two other cable-TV companies of infringing
patents related to transmitting phone calls over digital lines.  Sprint filed separate lawsuits today in federal court in
Kansas City, Kansas, against Time Warner Cable, Comcast, Cable
One Inc. and Cox Communications Inc. Overland Park, Kansas-based
Sprint claims the companies are using technology it patented in
the 1990s for transmission of voice data packets.  The companies “have realized the great value in this
technology and have misappropriated it without Sprint’s
permission,” Sprint said in each complaint.  The 12 patents include some that were asserted against
 Vonage Holdings Corp. (VG) , which agreed to pay $80 million to
license the technology after losing a 2007 trial.  Alex Dudley, a spokesman for New York-based Time Warner
Cable, said the company doesn’t comment on pending litigation.
John Demming, a spokesman for Philadelphia-based Comcast, also
declined to comment.  Rima Calderon, a spokeswoman for Cable One parent
 Washington Post Co. (WPO) , said the Washington-based company doesn’t
comment on litigation. Todd Smith, a spokesman for Atlanta-based
Cox, declined to comment, citing the pending lawsuit.  The cases are Sprint Communications Co. v. Time Warner Capt
Inc., 11cv2686; Sprint v. Cable One Inc., 11cv2685; Sprint v.
Comcast Cable Communications LLC, 11cv2684; and Sprint v. Cox
Communications Inc., 11cv2683, all U.S. District Court for the
District of Kansas (Kansas City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
T at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  