-- Most European Stocks Drop as Finance Ministers Discuss IMF Aid
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2011-12-19T17:09:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/stock-index-futures-in-europe-retreat-as-fitch-considers-france-downgrade.html
Most  European stocks  declined,
following two weeks of losses for the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index, as
euro-area policy makers discussed channeling additional
financial support through the International Monetary Fund.  SGL Carbon SE (SGL)  plunged more than 9 percent after its chief
financial officer said the company doesn’t expect its
shareholders Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and Susanne Klatten to
mount a takeover.  Air Berlin Plc (AB1)  soared after saying that  Etihad
Airways  will increase its stake in the company to 29.2 percent.
 Nestle SA (NESN)  added 2 percent.  The  Stoxx 600  advanced less than 0.1 percent to 233.75 at
the close in London. Three stocks dropped for every two that
climbed. The gauge earlier fell as much as 0.7 percent as  Fitch
Ratings  said it may downgrade France, Spain and Italy and the
death of Kim Jong Il, North Korea’s leader for 17 years,
increased concern about instability in the region.  “We’ve been expecting volatility to continue, but
eventually markets will settle down,” said  Kevin Gardiner , head
of global investment strategy at Barclays Wealth in  London .
“People have lost sight of the fact that markets can
occasionally get tired of a particular story. If they feel that
politicians are doing just enough to move in the right direction
on a long-term basis, then I think markets can actually start to
look elsewhere.”  The Stoxx 600 slipped 2.8 percent last week, dropping for a
second week, as concern lingered that the euro area’s debt
crisis is deepening and as the  Federal Reserve  refrained from
taking new action to bolster the world’s largest economy. The
gauge has  retreated 15 percent  this year.  Additional Funding  Euro-area finance ministers held a conference call today to
discuss channeling 200 billion euros ($260 billion) in
additional funding through the  International Monetary Fund  and
the mechanics of a so-called fiscal compact that were agreed
upon in the Dec. 9  European Union summit accord , according to
two people familiar with the matter.  The  European Central Bank  will offer unlimited funding
against collateral for as long as three years in a tender
tomorrow in President Mario Draghi’s latest attempt to get cash
flowing around the financial system. It’s up to lenders to
decide what to do with the money, he told the Financial Times in
an interview.  Fitch lowered France’s credit outlook and put the grades of
nations including Spain and Italy on review for a downgrade,
citing the euro area’s failure to find a “comprehensive
solution” to its debt crisis. Fitch placed  Spain , Italy,
Belgium, Slovenia, Ireland and Cyprus on a “Rating Watch
Negative” review, which it expects to complete by the end of
January, according to a statement.  Kim Death  The official Korean Central News Agency said that Kim died
on Dec. 17 from a heart attack brought on by mental and physical
strain. State media urged citizens to “loyally follow” Kim Jong Un, who is at the “forefront of the revolution.”  National benchmark indexes declined in 12 of the 18 western
European markets. France’s CAC 40 Index added 0.1 percent,
Germany’s DAX Index slipped 0.5 percent and the U.K.’s FTSE 100
Index sank 0.4 percent.  SGL Carbon declined 9.5 percent to 40.99 euros after Chief
Financial Officer Juergen Muth told the Frankfurter Allgemeine
Sonntagszeitung that the German maker of carbon and graphite
products regards a takeover by Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and
the carmaker’s heiress Susanne Klatten as unlikely. BMW and
Klatten together hold about 44 percent in SGL.  BP, Mining Companies  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Europe’s second-biggest oil producer , dropped 1.8
percent to 437.65 pence. Oil and gas companies were among the
worst performers of the 19 industry groups in the  Stoxx 600 .  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  dropped 3.6 percent to 1,046 pence.
Antofagasta Plc slid 1.9 percent to 1,150 pence and Xstrata Plc
lost 1.4 percent to 956.7 pence.  Copper futures dropped in London and  New York  as investors
speculated that demand will ease after property prices fell in
 China , the world’s biggest consumer of industrial metals.  In November, 49 big cities monitored in China posted house-
price declines, the most this year, after the government
affirmed plans to maintain property curbs.  Air Berlin  rallied 8.3 percent to 2.50 euros after saying
that Etihad Airways, Abu Dhabi’s state-controlled airline, will
pay 72.9 million euros to increase its stake in the German
airline to 29.2 percent. Etihad will purchase 31.6 million new
shares at Dec. 16’s closing price of 2.31 euros a piece, Air
Berlin said in a statement. Etihad will keep the shares for at
least two years and not increase its stake during that time.  Nestle climbed 2 percent to 52.20 Swiss francs as the
world’s biggest food company limited declines on the Stoxx 600.  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  gained 2.2 percent to 69.6 euro cents as
financial newspaper Il Sole reported that Fondazione CRT will
sell its stakes in Societe Generale SA and Banco de Sabadell SA
to free up funds to subscribe to UniCredit’s capital increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 Plevring1@bloomberg.net  or  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer in London at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ; 