-- Sugar May Exceed 25 Cents From Third Quarter, Macquarie Says
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2011-12-19T17:07:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/sugar-may-exceed-25-cents-from-third-quarter-macquarie-says-1-.html
Sugar prices may rise above 25 cents
a pound from the third quarter of next year after bottoming out
in the second quarter, Macquarie Group Ltd. said.  Prices will remain under pressure in the first half of 2012
as exports from the European Union, Central America,  India  and
Thailand increase, the bank said in a report e-mailed today.
India is the world’s second-largest sugar producer and Thailand
the second-biggest exporter.  “Prices will receive support at 20 cents a pound, below
which Brazilian mills will favor ethanol or become
unprofitable,”  Kona Haque , an analyst at the bank, wrote in the
report. “Low prices could also trigger the start of India’s
cyclical downtrend in production.”  Mills in Brazil can use their raw material to produce
either sugar or ethanol. Sugar output in India totaled 30.8
million tons in 2006-07, after recovering from a 14.2 million
tons crop in 2004-05, according to data on the  website  of the
 U.S. Department of Agriculture . Production slumped again to
15.95 million tons in 2008-09 before rising to an estimated 28.3
million tons in the current season, the data show.  Top global producer  Brazil  may not be able to increase
sugar output in the 2012-13 season, which starts in April there,
due to the low rate of cane replanting and potential dry
weather, Haque wrote in the report.  Coffee Rally  Coffee futures are expected to rally in the first half from
“current sluggish levels” on limited supply of arabica beans,
according to the bank. Arabica coffee is grown mainly in  Latin
America  and favored by Starbucks Corp. to make specialty drinks.  “Brazilian growers are reluctant to sell, as origin stocks
are slim, and being well financed, can afford to do so,” Haque
said. “With both the Colombian crop and Brazil’s 2012 crop
being downgraded, the market is getting tighter.”  Brazil is the world’s largest coffee producer.  Cocoa supplies will outpace demand for a second year in the
season started in October, with a “very good start” to the
current main crop in West Africa, Macquarie said.  “The weak economic environment means that grindings growth
will be sluggish, regardless of the strength of powder demand in
 emerging markets ,” Haque said in the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  