-- Swiss Stocks Advance as Nobel Biocare, Novartis, Swatch Climb
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2011-12-19T17:20:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/swiss-stocks-fall-for-second-day-as-fitch-cuts-france-s-outlook.html
Swiss stocks (SMI)  climbed as health-care
companies rose and European finance ministers discussed
channeling funding through the International Monetary Fund.  Nobel Biocare AG, the second-biggest maker of dental
implants, led a rally in health-care companies, gaining 2.4
percent.  Novartis AG (NOVN)  rose 1.5 percent.  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the
world’s largest watchmaker, added 1.5 percent after Kepler
Capital Markets SA raised its price estimate for the stock.  The Swiss Market Index, a measure of Switzerland’s biggest
and most actively traded companies, added 0.6 percent to
5,767.98 at the close in Zurich. The benchmark measure has still
declined 10 percent this year as the euro area’s sovereign-debt
crisis spread. The broader Swiss Performance Index increased 0.5
percent today.  “While appreciating the risk, investors still hope that a
solution will be put in place for the European debt crisis,”
said  Henk Potts , an equity strategist at Barclays Wealth in
London, which oversees $239 billion. “You should be positioned
for any upside surprises. There is still quite a lot to be
optimistic about. The corporate picture is still very bright and
economic growth could kick back.”  Fitch reduced its outlook for France’s credit grade to
negative from stable on Dec. 16, saying the  budget deficit  and
government borrowings make it more vulnerable to the region’s
debt crisis than other top-rated euro-area countries. Fitch also
put the grades of nations including Spain and Italy on review
for a downgrade, citing Europe’s failure to find a
“comprehensive solution.”  Euro-Area Ministers  Euro-area finance ministers held a conference call today to
discuss channeling 200 billion euros ($261 billion) in
additional funding through the  International Monetary Fund  and
the mechanics of a so-called fiscal compact that were agreed
upon in the Dec. 9 European Union summit accord, according to
two people familiar with the matter.  Nobel Biocare climbed 2.4 percent to 10.26 Swiss francs
after SonntagsZeitung reported that the board of directors may
disagree on an approach made by the venture-capital firm  Bain
Capital  LLC, without saying where it got the information.  Nobel Biocare’s board met on Nov. 16 to discuss the initial
approach by Bain Capital, which was first reported on Oct. 24,
and may be at odds over how to proceed, the Zurich-based
newspaper said yesterday. Nobel may be the target of a leveraged
buyout, the newspaper said. While some Nobel board members
consider approving an in-depth audit by Bain Capital, others
insist that the company can achieve its potential without
external assistance, according to the newspaper.  Nestle, Swatch Rise  Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest food company, gained 2
percent to 52.20 francs as Alex Molloy, an analyst at  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , resumed coverage of the stock with a
“neutral” rating and a price estimate of 58 francs. Novartis
added 1.5 percent to 52.80 francs. The companies make up about
44 percent of the SMI.  Swatch gained 1.5 percent to 328.60 francs after Jon Cox,
an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets, raised his price estimate
for the stock to 425 francs from 400 francs. He expects Swatch
to “win more market share than normal in 2012,” he wrote in an
e-mail.  Acino Holding AG (ACIN) , a maker of generic drugs, jumped 4
percent to 94 francs, its biggest rally since Oct. 26, after the
company said it signed a deal with Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. to buy Mepha Pharma AG’s  Latin America  and Asia
business for 94 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  