-- Swiss Court Backs Swatch Move to Cut Supply to Third Parties
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2011-12-19T14:29:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/swiss-court-backs-swatch-move-to-cut-supply-to-third-parties-1-.html
Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the world’s biggest
watchmaker, fought off a legal challenge from nine competitors
to a decision that it be allowed to scale back deliveries of
watch movements to rival companies next year.  The Swiss Federal Administrative Court last week upheld a
judgment by the country’s competition regulator, Comco, allowing
Swatch to reduce supplies of movements to third parties, Joanne
Siegenthaler, a spokeswoman for the court, said today by
telephone. Competitors including Frederique Constant SA had
challenged the regulator’s decision.  The news “is certainly positive for Swatch,” Jon Cox, an
analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in Zurich, said by telephone.
“It means Swatch will win more market share next year.”  Comco in June said Swatch could cut deliveries of movements
to other watchmakers in 2012 to 85 percent of the 2010 level.
Swatch has been required to supply movements to third parties
because of its dominant position. The Biel, Switzerland-based
company is estimated by analysts to make about two-thirds of all
the movements used in Swiss watches through its ETA unit and has
been asking  Comco  to let it decide to whom it sells movements.  The reduction is a provisional measure while the regulator
carries out an investigation into the matter.  Comco’s decision in June also allowed Swatch to trim
supplies of movements to other movement makers by 30 percent and
of components by 5 percent.  The companies that sought to reverse the Comco decision may
appeal to the Federal Supreme Court after the final judgments,
including the reasons, are published in the first half of 2012,
according to Siegenthaler.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dermot Doherty at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  