-- Syria Agrees to Arab League Monitoring Plan to Avoid Being Referred to UN
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2011-12-19T17:48:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/syria-agrees-to-arab-league-monitoring-plan.html
Syria agreed to an  Arab League 
proposal that will allow monitors into the country as regional
states seek to end the crackdown on protesters that has claimed
at least 5,000 lives.  The signing of the accord in Cairo was announced today on
Syrian state television. The agreement came after the Arab
League amended the original text following a request from Syria,
Syrian Foreign Minister Walid Al-Muallem said in a televised
news conference from Damascus.  “If our amendments were not included, we wouldn’t have
signed,” Muallem said. “The signing of the protocol is the
beginning of cooperation with the Arab League and we will
welcome the observers.”  The Arab League imposed sanctions on Syria on Nov. 27,
increasing economic and political pressure on President Bashar al-Assad to end the suppression of protests that began in mid-
March. The violence risks moving the nation closer to civil war
as military personnel defect and take up arms against the
government. Popular movements have toppled leaders in  Tunisia ,
 Egypt  and  Libya  this year, and forced Yemen’s President Ali Abdullah Saleh to agree to cede power.  Syrian forces killed 30 people across the country today, Al
Jazeera television reported.  Muallem said the Arab League agreed to 70 percent of
Syria’s amendments, without elaborating on them. The monitors
will verify compliance with measures to halt the violence.  Protect Civilians  Speaking in a televised news conference in Tunisia, where
opposition groups have been meeting, Burhan Ghalioun, president
of the Syrian National Council, said Assad’s government is
seeking to buy time by signing the Arab League proposal. The
council will talk to the  United Nations  and other groups about
intervention by Arab forces to protect civilians, he said.  The protocol agreed upon today is valid for one month and
is renewable for another, Muallem said.  “This illustrates that the regime recognized they can’t
completely turn their nose up at the Arab League and they
actually do have some leverage over them,” said  Chris Phillips ,
an analyst at the Economist Intelligence Unit in  London . “It
doesn’t necessarily mean that if and when they do allow the
observers in that they will give them the full, unrestricted
access that they demand.”  Arab League Meeting  The Arab League postponed a meeting of foreign ministers
who were scheduled to gather in Cairo on Dec. 21 to discuss
submitting a proposal on Syria to the UN  Security Council ,
Egypt’s state-run Middle East News Agency said, citing the
league’s secretary-general, Nabil el-Arabi.  “We want to end the current situation as fast as
possible,” Muallem said. “We want to exit from this crisis by
building a safe, modern Syria that is an example of democracy
and pluralism.”  Today’s agreement doesn’t mean an immediate suspension of
Arab sanctions against Syria, MENA reported, citing el-Arabi.  Efforts by the U.S. and  Europe , which have also imposed
sanctions on Syria, to get a condemnation of Assad’s crackdown
at the  Security Council  have been blocked by  Russia  and  China .
Coordination with Russia is “daily,” Muallem said, adding
there was no change in Russia’s stance toward Syria.  Assad has blamed the unrest on foreign provocateurs, while
his forces have used tanks, armored vehicles and artillery to
crush the uprising.  The UN estimates that more than 5,000 people have been
killed in the uprising. New York-based  Human Rights Watch 
accused Syrian military and intelligence officials last week of
giving both “direct and standing orders to use lethal force.”  Assad’s government is “falling apart” and losing grip as
the uprising against his rule entered its 10th month, the SNC’s
Ghalioun said. “It won’t be long before a new  Syria  is born.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  