-- U.K. Home Sellers Cut Property Asking Prices in December, Rightmove Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2011-12-19T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/u-k-house-prices-plunge-2-7-as-rightmove-forecasts-a-challenging-2012.html
U.K. home sellers cut  asking prices 
in December, according to Rightmove Plc, which said the  property
market  will remain “challenging” next year.  Average asking prices in England and Wales fell 2.7 percent
from November to 225,766 pounds ($350,400), the operator of
Britain’s biggest  property website (RMV)  said in a report in  London 
today. On the year, prices rose 1.5 percent, and Rightmove said
values may rise 2 percent in 2012, supported by a shortage of
property for sale.  U.K. housing demand may remain under pressure as
 unemployment  climbs to a 17-year high and the turmoil in  Europe 
threatens to push the economy back into recession. Still, there
won’t be a glut of sellers to undermine values, Rightmove said.
It forecasts that about 1.2 million homes will be marketed for
sale next year, a third of the amount available before the
credit crisis hit in 2007.  “We have had a few years of testing the resilience of the
bottom of the market,”  Miles Shipside , commercial director of
Rightmove, said in a statement. “There remains a high level of
uncertainty overhanging the market due to the ongoing euro-zone
crisis.”  Eight of 10 regions in England and Wales tracked by
Rightmove posted declines last month, led by a 6.2 percent drop
in the South East. The North rose 0.9 percent.  Prices in London dropped 2.2 percent on the month, led by a
4.6 percent decline in both Brent and Croydon, and a 3.9 percent
drop in Islington. Hounslow’s 4.5 percent increase was the
biggest for London. Average prices in the capital were up 6.4
percent on the year, the most for any U.K. region.  No Collapse  The annual price gain for England and  Wales  is “perhaps a
surprising performance given the challenging market,” Rightmove
said. Though “2012 will be similarly challenging,” fewer homes
for sale “will help underpin prices and stave off a price
collapse.”  Unemployment as measured by International Labour
Organization standards rose in the three months through October
to 2.64 million, the most since 1994.  Consumer confidence  fell
to a  record low  in October,  Nationwide Building Society  said
last month.  Assessments of the outlook for selling prices point to
little growth. Lloyds Banking Group Plc’s Halifax division said
last week house prices will rise or fall by no more than 2
percent next year, as the market for residential property is
torn between depressed demand and a shortage of supply.  The Centre for Economics and Business Research cut its
forecast for 2012 home-price inflation last month to 1.6 percent
from 2.4 percent, and said a shortage of properties will help
push up values “only slowly.”  “In the event of a disorderly collapse of the  euro zone 
then our predictions for 2012 will also be derailed,” Shipside
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  