-- U.K. Consumers’ Retrenchment Creating Drag on Economic Recovery, BOE Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2011-12-19T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/u-k-consumers-retrenchment-is-a-drag-on-recovery-boe-says.html
British households are cutting back
on spending as they prepare for a worsening economic environment
that’s threatening jobs and creating a drag on the recovery, the
 Bank of England  said.  Fifty-six percent of households in a survey said income
available after tax, insurance, housing costs, loan repayments
and bills has fallen over the past year, the bank said in its
Quarterly Bulletin in London today. Thirty-one percent reported
no change and 13 percent said their income had risen.  The recovery “has been disappointing and there are signs
that output growth has slowed in recent months,” Chief
Economist  Spencer Dale  wrote in the bulletin. “An important
feature of this recovery relative to past ones -- and a key
reason why the pace of the recovery has been disappointing -- is
the weakness in household consumption.”  An “important” impact on incomes was the increase in
 sales tax  in January, the bank said. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  is sticking to plans for the tightest fiscal
squeeze since World War II as investors punish European nations
for failing to manage their debts. Dale said last week the U.K.
faces the possibility of contraction as the region’s turmoil
worsens.  The impact of the government’s fiscal plans may accelerate,
today’s report said. When asked about the impact of the
chancellor’s plans in the past year, 48 percent said they were
affected against 34 percent who said they weren’t heavily
affected. When asked about the future, 69 percent forecast an
impact from the cuts, and 15 percent saw no heavy impact. The
remainder said they hadn’t thought about it.  NMG Consulting carried out the survey of 1,985 people for
the bank from Sept. 23 to Sept. 29  Market Tensions  The bank’s quarterly assessment of financial markets
pointed to worsening conditions “amid intensifying concerns
about a about a potentially disorderly resolution to the fiscal
challenges and external imbalances facing several euro-area
countries, related banking sector vulnerabilities and the
macroeconomic outlook.”  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  has said there are
early signs of a credit crunch in the euro area. The central
bank restarted  bond purchases  in October to aid the economy and
introduced a new sterling liquidity measure this month to help
banks weather any further escalation of the crisis.  Bank funding markets worsened and longer-term unsecured
debt markets were difficult, and market contacts said they
“expected the cost of unsecured funding to remain elevated for
the foreseeable future,” according to the bulletin.  The central bank said investors sought refuge in assets
perceived as safer, such as U.S. and U.K. government bonds. The
 10-year gilt yield  fell to 2.034 percent on Dec. 16, the least
since Bloomberg began compiling the data in 1992. Two-year
yields also fell to a record low.  In the bulletin, the Bank of England also said that U.K.
lenders using the bank’s Special Liquidity Scheme made 11
billion pounds ($17 billion) of repayments over the quarter,
taking the total repaid by the end of November at 179 billion
pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  