-- U.K. Stocks Drop for Second Day as RBS, Barclays Fall; Ocado Shares Plunge
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2011-12-19T17:02:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/u-k-stocks-are-little-changed-barclays-lloyds-rbs-decline.html
U.K. stocks  fell for a second day as
banks retreated amid plans to separate their investment and
consumer businesses and Fitch Ratings’ warned that it may
downgrade France, Italy and Spain.  Lloyd Banking Group Plc,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) 
and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  slid more than 3 percent as Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  pledged to pass laws by 2015 to force
banks to split their investment and consumer units.  Ocado Group
Plc (OCDO)  slumped 17 percent, the biggest slide on the FTSE 350 Index,
as the U.K.’s biggest online-only grocer forecast profit that
trailed analysts’ estimates.  The FTSE 100 index retreated 22.35, or 0.4 percent, to
5,364.99 at the close of trading in  London , after earlier
advancing as much 0.4 percent. The drop extends this year’s
decline to 9.1 percent amid concern the euro-area debt crisis is
hurting the global economy.  “Once again investors’ nerves have crumbled and the nine-
day downtrend for the market has remained intact, with bankers
and mining shares leading the way lower,”  David Jones , David
Jones, chief market strategist at IG Index, said in e-mailed
comments. “Investors have the ever-present specter of European
political procrastination regarding the debt situation to give
them a reason to not hold positions for too long.”  Weekly Decline  The FTSE 100 slid 2.6 percent last week as concern lingered
that the euro area’s debt crisis is deepening and the U.S.
Federal Reserve refrained from taking new action to bolster the
world’s largest economy. The broader FTSE All-Share Index slid
0.4 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index increased 0.2
percent.  Fitch Ratings  lowered France’s credit outlook and put the
grades of nations including Spain and Italy on review for a
downgrade, citing  Europe ’s failure to find a “comprehensive
solution” to the sovereign-debt crisis. Fitch placed Spain,
Italy, Belgium, Slovenia, Ireland and Cyprus on a “Rating Watch
Negative” review, which it expects to complete by the end of
January, according to a statement.  Euro-area finance ministers discussed 200 billion euros
($260 billion) in additional funding through the  International
Monetary Fund  and the mechanics of a so-called fiscal compact
that were agreed in the Dec. 9 European Union summit accord,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  damped
expectations that the ECB will step up bond purchases to tame
the sovereign-debt crisis, saying it can’t overstep its mandate.  ECB Credibility  “People have to accept that we have to, and always will,
act in accordance with our mandate and within our legal
foundations,” Draghi told the Financial Times in an interview,
confirmed by the Frankfurt-based ECB. “The important thing is
to restore the trust of the people -- citizens as well as
investors -- in our continent. We won’t achieve that by
destroying the credibility of the ECB.”  Lloyd Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  slid 4.2 percent to 23.47 pence as
Osborne said the coalition government will introduce firewalls
around banks’ retail divisions. RBS declined 3 percent to 19.4
pence and Barclays slid 3.2 percent to 165.95 pence.  “The government will split retail and investment banking
through a ring fence,” Osborne told lawmakers in the House of
Commons in London today.  Ocado Group plunged 17 percent to 59.2 pence, the lowest
level since its initial public offering in July 2010. The
online-only grocer that sells goods supplied by Waitrose Ltd.
forecast full-year profit below analysts’ estimates after sales
growth slowed amid worsening delivery times and order accuracy.  Imperial Tobacco (IMT)  Gains  Imperial Tobacco Plc led rising shares on the  FTSE 100 (UKX) 
Index as investors sought companies whose earnings are less tied
to economic growth. Europe’s second-biggest tobacco company
climbed 1.3 percent to 2,355 pence. SABMiller Plc, the brewer
buying  Australia ’s Fosters Group Ltd. rose 1.2 percent to 2,176
pence.  Gulf Keystone Petroleum Ltd. rallied 7.7 percent to 178.25
pence. Exxon Mobil Corp. is considering a bid for the oil
producer that operates in Iraq’s Kurdistan region, the
Independent on Sunday reported. The newspaper didn’t say where
it got the information. Gulf Keystone said it’s not in talks
about selling the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  