-- U.S. Stocks Slump on Concern Europe Failing to Tame Debt Crisis
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2011-12-19T21:35:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/u-s-stock-index-futures-gain-as-european-ministers-hold-debt-crisis-talks.html
U.S. stocks slumped, following a
two-day advance in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as financial
shares tumbled and concern grew that European officials were
failing to make progress in taming the debt crisis.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  fell 4.1 percent, dropping below $5
for the first time since March 2009, on a report that large
financial institutions will have to hold extra capital.  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Morgan Stanley declined more than 3.7 percent.
 Alcoa (AA)  Inc.,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  slid at
least 1.8 percent to pace losses among the biggest companies.  The  S&P 500  declined 1.2 percent to 1,205.35 at 4 p.m. New
York time. The benchmark measure for American equities advanced
0.7 percent over the previous two days. The Dow Jones Industrial
Average decreased 100.13 points, or 0.8 percent, to 11,766.26
today. About 6.3 billion shares changed hands on U.S. exchanges,
or 21 percent below the three-month average.  “It’s not all roses and candy,” Malcolm Polley, who
oversees $1.1 billion as chief investment officer at Stewart
Capital in Indiana, Pennsylvania, said in a telephone interview.
“You have a stubborn debt problem in Europe. The level of
distrust has been -- you guys say you have things fixed and then
it turns out you don’t. Until it’s actually done, we’re not
going to believe you.”  The S&P 500 has fallen 4.2 percent in 2011, poised to snap
a  two-year (SPX)  rally, amid concern about slower global growth as
European leaders struggled to solve the region’s debt crisis.
Financial shares had the biggest decline among 10 groups in the
benchmark measure this year, tumbling 23 percent.  Substantial Risks  Stocks fell today as European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said substantial risks to the economy remain and the law
forbids him from increasing government bond purchases to fight
the crisis. Equities extended losses as Dow Jones reported that
European Union finance ministers failed to agree on raising the
joint ceiling of their temporary and permanent rescue funds.  The first part of 2012 will be “risk off” as Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis encourages demand for safety, said Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer at Pacific Investment
Management Co.  “This idea of austerity first, money second is a tougher
road to take in Europe,” James Dunigan, who helps oversee $103
billion as chief investment officer in Philadelphia for PNC
Wealth Management, said in a telephone interview. “It may end
up in the right result, but it’s going to take a lot longer. The
tendency is to reduce risk, not add it.”  All 10 groups in the  S&P 500 (SPXL1)  retreated, as gauges of
financial and commodity shares had the biggest declines. The
Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index slid 2.3 percent amid concern
about economic growth.  Banks (SX7P)  Tumble  The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  slumped 2.7 percent as all of its 24
stocks fell. The Federal Reserve is expected to embrace a new
global framework that requires big banks to hold extra capital,
the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people familiar with
the situation.  “For the large U.S. banks, it makes sense that they would
be asked to hold higher levels of capital,” Stewart Capital’s
Polley said. “They are a systemically bigger problem.”  Banks  should be forced to reveal more data about their
financial reserves so that they can’t conceal poor management
decisions and excessive risk-taking, global regulators said.
Lenders should “disclose the full list” of instruments that
they are counting toward meeting their required minimum capital
levels, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision said in an e-
mailed statement today.  BofA Below $5  Bank of America, the second-biggest U.S. lender, retreated
4.1 percent to $4.99. A sustained decline below $5 could reduce
its appeal to some investors, said Eric Teal, chief investment
officer at First Citizens Bancshares Inc., which manages $4
billion in Raleigh,  North Carolina .  “As active managers, we have screens that usually prohibit
us from buying stocks under $5,” Teal said in an interview,
citing the greater volatility and risk of such equities.  JPMorgan tumbled 3.7 percent to $30.70.  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
dropped 5.5 percent to $14.16.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  slumped 4.7
percent to $24.82.  Some of the biggest companies fell. Alcoa, the largest U.S.
aluminum producer, dropped 3.2 percent to $8.53. Hewlett-Packard
declined 2.8 percent to $25.13. Microsoft slid 1.8 percent to
$25.53.  A measure of  raw material (S5MATR)  shares in the S&P 500 lost 1.9
percent. Copper declined on concern that demand will ease after
property prices dropped in China, the world’s top consumer of
industrial metals.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) , the
world’s largest publicly traded copper miner, lost 3.4 percent
to $35.74.  Century-Old  Schnitzer Steel Industries Inc. (SCHN)  tumbled 9.2 percent to
$41.54. The century-old steel recycler reported preliminary
first-quarter earnings that were less than analysts projected
because of slower demand and a decline in sales prices.  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  rose 2 percent to $13. The cable
company was added to  the Top Picks Live list at Citigroup,
which said the stock’s declines after earnings reports that
missed analyst estimates and the departures of executives were
“a touch extreme.” The company and Verizon Communications Inc.
settled a lawsuit over ads that Cablevision claimed
misrepresented its Internet speeds, a Verizon spokesman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in Sao Paulo at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  