-- Health Alliances Are Set to Share Medical Savings
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2011-12-19T22:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/u-s-designates-health-alliances-to-share-medical-savings-3-.html
A university health system in
 Michigan  and a  Boston  center affiliated with  Harvard Medical
School  are among the first hospitals to join the health-care
law’s most ambitious attempt at reducing medical spending, the
government said today.  The  Department of Health  and Human Services designated 32
health systems part of a partnership with Medicare to encourage
the formation of networks known as  “accountable care
organizations.” Participating hospitals earn bonus payments if
they save Medicare as much as $1.1 billion over five years by
streamlining care without reducing quality, for example by
reducing admissions of chronically ill people.  “Today, if you’re a hospital executive, you’re rewarded
for keeping your beds full,” said John Rother, president and
chief executive officer of the  National Coalition on Health
Care . “That’s going to change” under the program. Members of
the Washington-based nonprofit include labor unions, hospitals
and employers.  The health-care law envisioned networks of hospitals,
doctors and insurers pooling services and getting paid according
to quality targets and how much money they save. The U.S.
Federal Trade Commission and  Justice Department  will conduct
antitrust reviews of the alliances.  The University of Michigan’s health system and Partners
Healthcare, affiliated with  Harvard Medical School  in Boston,
were among the hospitals designated today.  Bonus Payments  Total bonus payments are uncertain, said Richard Gilfillan,
director of a new center at the U.S. Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services that will supervise the program. Payouts will
be less than the $1.1 billion the government hopes to save, he
said.  One participant, Montefiore Care Management at The
University Hospital for Albert Einstein College of Medicine in
 New York , projects it may earn about $52 million in bonuses
through 2013 if it can reduce spending for about 24,000 Medicare
beneficiaries by 10 percent, said Stephen Rosenthal, the
president and CEO.  Montefiore won’t be paid without also achieving 33 measures
of care quality, Rosenthal said in an interview, such as
avoiding readmissions, screening Medicare patients for
depression and offering them annual flu vaccinations. The
quality measures are intended to prevent hospitals from stinting
on care to reduce costs.  “You can create the savings and do a lousy job and get
nothing,” he said.  Limited Payments  Bonuses may be limited in the first several years, Rother
said, as hospitals invest in employees and training to provide
more integrated care.  Atrius Health , for example, a system of
six physician groups in  Massachusetts , plans to hire more nurses
to focus on managing care for people with chronic disease such
as diabetes, the chief medical officer, Rick Lopez, said by
phone.  Allina Hospitals & Clinics, based in  Minneapolis , plans to
invest in an electronic medical records system to better track
patients across its 11 hospitals and 90 clinics in Minnesota and
 Wisconsin , said Penny Wheeler, the system’s chief clinical
officer, by phone. She said she met a breast cancer patient last
week with 14 different care providers when the person should
have one doctor monitoring all of her care.  “It would be wrong to imply that this is a magic bullet
that’s somehow going to fix things in the next year or two,”
Rother said. “We’re talking about really ambitious changes in
the relationship between doctors and hospitals and other
suppliers.”  Hospitals in the first group of participants must serve at
least 15,000 Medicare beneficiaries in urban areas, or 5,000 in
rural areas, and are at risk for reduced Medicare payments if
they fail to record savings from what the government has spent
caring for their patients in the past.  A second group expected to join the program next year won’t
be at risk of reduced payment if they can’t produce savings.  The alliances begin Jan. 1 and have the potential to cover
about 860,000 Medicare recipients in 18 states, the U.S. said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  