-- U.S. Military Maintains Korea Alert Level While Urging Restraint
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2011-12-19T19:15:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/u-s-military-maintains-korea-alert-level-while-urging-restraint.html
The U.S. military in South Korea
kept force-alert levels unchanged in the wake of the death of
North Korean dictator  Kim Jong Il , as Defense Secretary Leon Panetta conferred with his South Korean counterpart on
exercising restraint.  Panetta, who is at his home in  California  after a trip last
week to the  Middle East  and North Africa, spoke with South
Korean Defense Minister Kim Kwan Jin, Pentagon spokesman George
Little said.  “The secretary conveyed to Minister Kim the strong
commitment of the  United States  to peninsular stability and to
our alliance,” Little told reporters at the Pentagon today.
“Both men agreed that it is critical to remain prudent with
respect to all matters related to our security posture there and
pledged to keep one another informed in the coming days.”  U.S. force protection levels haven’t changed in  South
Korea , and no unusual North Korean military movements have been
detected in connection to the reports of the death of Kim Jong
Il, Little said. The U.S. maintain about 28,500 U.S. military
personnel in South Korea.  There are no plans for U.S. military families to leave
South Korea, Little said.  The conversation reflects concerns expressed by U.S.
officials including former Defense Secretary Robert Gates in
recent years that South Korean leaders may not be able to resist
public calls for military retaliation the next time North Korea
stages a provocative assault.  An international investigation blamed Kim’s regime for the
March 2010 sinking of the South Korean naval vessel Cheonan that
killed 46 sailors. Eight months later,  North Korea  shelled a
South Korean island, killing two soldiers and two civilians and
setting homes ablaze.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  