-- U.S. Regional and State Quarterly Personal Income (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 2011-12-19T13:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/u-s-regional-and-state-quarterly-personal-income-text-.html
Following is the text of the state
personal income report from the  Bureau of Economic Analysis .  State personal income growth slowed to 0.1 percent, on average,
in the third quarter of 2011, according to estimates released
today by the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis. Growth rates
ranged from -0.4 percent in West Virginia to 0.6 percent in
Washington State. Personal income fell or was unchanged in
twenty states and grew 0.2 percent in the other thirty.
Inflation, as measured by the national price index for personal
consumption expenditures, decreased to 0.6 percent in the third
quarter from 0.8 percent in the second quarter of 2011.  Earnings by industry and state. Earnings grew 0.4 percent in the
third quarter. Earnings fell or remained unchanged in 4 states
and in 7 of the 24 industries that BEA tracks on a quarterly
basis.  The biggest earnings decline--2.4 percent--was in the
information industry. The decline reflects a two-week strike by
telecommunications workers in August and job losses in other
information industries. The decline in information earnings
ranged from 1.3 percent in  Arizona  to 4.6 percent in Hawaii.
Only in Washington State did information earnings rise. The 4.7
percent gain in Washington reflected the vesting of stock grants
and the exercise of stock options, common forms of compensation
among technology firms.  State and local government earnings fell in most states in the
third quarter. The largest decline--2.9 percent--was in
 Minnesota  where state government was shut down for 20 days in
July, leading to the layoff of nearly 60 percent of the state’s
workforce. State and local government earnings rose in four
states:  California , New York,  Oklahoma , and  Mississippi .  Federal civilian earnings fell in most states, with the largest
declines in Kansas (1.3 percent) and  Texas  (1.2 percent). Until
recently, job losses in the postal service have been offset by
employment gains in other federal agencies so that total federal
civilian earnings grew. In the third quarter, however, job
losses in the postal service were accompanied by job losses in
the rest of the federal civilian workforce and earnings fell
0.2% nationally.  In contrast to most states, federal civilian earnings rose one
percentage point or more in  Colorado ,  Maryland ,  Montana ,  New
Mexico , and  Wyoming . The gain in Maryland, however, reflected a
realignment of existing jobs from Walter Reed Hospital in the
 District of Columbia  (which closed) to Bethesda Naval Hospital
in Maryland.  Third quarter earnings grew 1.5 percent in the administrative
services industry (which includes temporary help firms) and 1.4
percent in health care and educational services.  NOTE.-- Quarter-to-quarter percent changes are calculated from
unrounded data and are not annualized. Quarterly estimates are
expressed at seasonally adjusted annual rates, unless otherwise
specified. Quarter-to-quarter dollar changes are differences
between published estimates.  Definitions  Personal income is the income received by all persons from all
sources. Personal income is the sum of net earnings by place of
residence, property income, and personal current transfer
receipts. Property income is rental income of persons, personal
dividend income, and personal interest income. Net earnings is
earnings by place of work (the sum of wage and salary
disbursements, supplements to wages and salaries, and
proprietors’ income) less contributions for government social
insurance, plus an adjustment to convert earnings by place of
work to a place-of-residence basis. Personal income is measured
before the deduction of personal income taxes and other personal
taxes and is reported in current dollars (no adjustment is made
for price changes).  The estimate of personal income in the  United States  is derived
as the sum of the state estimates and the estimate for the
District of Columbia; it differs from the estimate of personal
income in the national income and product accounts (NIPAs)
because of differences in coverage, in the methodologies used to
prepare the estimates, and in the timing of the availability of
source data.  BEA groups all 50 states and the District of Columbia into eight
distinct regions for purposes of data collecting and analyses:
New England (Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire,
Rhode Island, and Vermont); Mideast (Delaware, District of
Columbia, Maryland, New Jersey,  New York , and Pennsylvania);
Great Lakes (Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, and Wisconsin);
Plains (Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North
Dakota, and South Dakota); Southeast (Alabama, Arkansas, Florida,
Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia, and West Virginia); Southwest
(Arizona, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas); Rocky Mountain
(Colorado, Idaho, Montana, Utah, and Wyoming); and Far West
(Alaska, California, Hawaii, Nevada, Oregon, and Washington).  BEA’s national, international, regional, and industry estimates;
the Survey of Current Business; and BEA news releases are
available without charge on BEA’s Web site at www.bea.gov. By
visiting the site, you can also subscribe to receive free e-mail
summaries of BEA releases and announcements.  ****  Next state personal income release - March 28, 2012, at 8:30 A.M.
for state personal income, fourth quarter 2011.
 Search:  SOURCE: U.S. Department of Commerce  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in  Washington  at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  