-- Homebuilder Confidence at Highest ’11 Level
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2011-12-19T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/u-s-homebuilder-confidence-rises-a-third-month-to-highest-level-this-year.html
Confidence among U.S. homebuilders
rose in December for a third consecutive month, a sign of
stabilization in the housing market.  The  National Association of Home Builders /Wells Fargo index
of builder confidence climbed to 21, the highest level since May
2010, from a revised 19 in November that was lower than first
reported, the Washington-based group said today. Economists
projected an index of 20, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey. Readings below 50 mean more respondents
said conditions were poor.  Borrowing costs near a record low are attracting some
prospective home buyers. At the same time, another wave of
foreclosures, which would put more existing homes in competition
with new ones, means a sustained housing recovery may be years
in the making.  “We’re just seeing some incremental improvement,”  John Herrmann , a senior fixed-income strategist at State Street
Global Markets LLC in  Boston , said before the report. “It’s too
early to say that the worst is over. It’s too early to say that
we’re pulling ourselves out of the morass of housing.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 44 economists ranged
from 18 to 23. The gauge, which was first published in January
1985, reached a record low of 8 in January 2009 and averaged 54
in the five years before the 18-month recession began in
December 2007.  The builders group’s index of current single-family home
sales increased to 22 this month, the most since May 2010, from
last month’s reading of 20.  More Traffic  A measure of sales expectations for the next six months
advanced to 26, the highest level since March, from 25 in
November. The gauge of buyer traffic increased to 18, the
highest since May 2008.  Builders in the South led the increase, with the index
jumping 4 points to 25 this month. The West reported a gain to
16 from 15, while the Midwest held at 24. Confidence in the
Northeast dropped to 15 from 16.  “This is the first time that builder confidence has
improved for three consecutive months since mid-2009, which
signifies a legitimate though slowly emerging upward trend,”
NAHB Chief Economist  David Crowe  said in a statement. “Builders
are reporting more inquiries and more interest among potential
buyers than they have seen in previous months.”  The confidence survey asks builders to characterize current
sales as “good,” “fair” or “poor” and to gauge prospective
buyers’ traffic. It also asks participants to gauge the outlook
for the next six months.  ‘Pockets of Recovery’  “While builder confidence remains low, the consistent
gains registered over the past several months are an indication
that pockets of recovery are slowly starting to emerge in
scattered housing markets,” Bob Nielsen, chairman of the
National Association of Home Builders and a home builder from
Reno,  Nevada , said today in a statement. “However, the
difficulties that both builders and buyers continue to
experience in accessing credit for new homes are holding back
potential sales even in areas where economic conditions are
improving.”  Some companies are seeing signs of improvement on the
horizon.  Potential buyers “are aware of the tremendous
affordability of homes and the record-low  interest rates ,”
Robert I. Toll, chairman of Toll Brothers Inc., the largest U.S.
luxury homebuilder, said on a Dec. 6 conference call with
analysts. “However, a lack of confidence in the direction of
the economy is perhaps the biggest impediment to releasing what
we believe is significant pent-up demand.”  The housing market has been slow to strengthen more than
two years after the recession ended in June 2009. Purchases of
new houses rose 1.3 percent in October as lower prices attracted
buyers. Sales of previously owned homes, which make up about 94
percent of the market, climbed 1.4 percent that month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 