-- Single-Family Home Building Headed For Worst Year on Record
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2011-12-19T14:06:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/u-s-one-family-home-building-in-worst-year-chart-of-the-day.html
More than two years after the U.S.
recession ended in June 2009, construction of single-family
homes is heading for its worst year on record.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows that while total housing starts
bottomed in 2009, construction of one-family houses will
probably post a new low this year at around 419,100, about 11
percent less than in 2010, according to Bloomberg News
calculations. The building industry is being propped up by a
projected 45 percent jump in work on multifamily units as more
homeowners who lose their homes to foreclosure become renters.  “A lot of people just look at the headline numbers, they
don’t realize the breakdown tells the story,” said  Michelle Meyer , a senior economist at Bank of America Corp. in  New York .
“Foreclosures are forcing people to transition from ownership
to rentals. In a sense, the multifamily sector is benefiting at
the expense of single-family.”  Americans have little incentive to buy newly built homes
when they can purchase distressed houses, which have made up
about a third of existing home sales this year, at a discount.  That means there will be little reason to build new homes
next year, said Meyer. About 8 million distressed homes are in
the pipeline to be sold over the next four years, including
foreclosures and short-sales, according to Bank of America
estimates.  Commerce Department figures tomorrow may show total housing
starts rose 1.1 percent in November to a 635,000 annual rate,
the highest since January, according to economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Tanzi in Washington at 
 atanzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  