-- U.S. Crude Oil Stockpiles Fell for Second Week, Survey Shows
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2011-12-19T20:31:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/u-s-crude-oil-stockpiles-fell-for-second-week-survey-shows-1-.html
U.S. crude  inventories  dropped for a
second week as refineries in states along the  Gulf of Mexico 
minimize supplies ahead of the end of the year to reduce tax
bills, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Stockpiles decreased by 2 million barrels, or 0.6 percent,
to 332.2 million in the seven days ended Dec. 16, according to
the median of nine analyst estimates before a weekly Energy
Department report Dec. 21. All respondents forecast a decline.  Oil inventories declined in December during 11 of the past
12 years, based on weekly supply data. Some states along the
U.S. Gulf of Mexico coast levy taxes based on the amount in
storage at the end of the year.  “Crude supplies are expected to show a sizable draw mainly
as a result of seasonal tendencies,”  Jim Ritterbusch , president
of Ritterbusch & Associates, a Galena, Illinois-based consulting
company, said in a report. “Crude stocks have decreased in five
of the past five years” during this week.  Companies operated refineries at 85.1 percent of capacity
in the seven days ended Dec. 16,  unchanged  from the prior week,
the survey showed.  Inventories of  distillate fuel , a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, dropped 500,000 barrels, or 0.4 percent,
to 141 million barrels last week, the survey showed. Five of the
respondents anticipated a decline, three said there was an
increase and one projected no change.  Gasoline  supplies  increased 1 million barrels, or 0.5
percent, to 219.8 million last week, the survey showed. Six
analysts projected a gain and three estimated a decline.  The Energy Department is scheduled to release its weekly
report at 10:30 a.m. on Dec. 21 in  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  