-- Hungary Court Rules Media, Criminal Law Violate Basic Rights
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2011-12-19T14:36:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/hungary-court-rules-media-criminal-law-violate-basic-rights-1-.html
Hungary ’s  Constitutional Court 
vetoed parts of the media and criminal codes that were
internationally criticized for curbing press freedom and the
judiciary’s independence.  The court also annulled a new law regulating religious
organizations on procedural grounds, the court in Budapest said
in three separate rulings that were e-mailed today.  Since coming to power last year, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s lawmakers curbed the powers of the Constitutional Court,
ousted the Supreme Court’s chief justice, wrote a new
Constitution, replaced an independent Fiscal Council with one
dominated by his allies and created a media regulator whose
directors were exclusively picked by ruling party officials.  The media law “unconstitutionally limited freedom of the
written press,” the  Constitutional Court  said in its ruling,
citing more stringent regulation for newspapers versus other
media. The court also scrapped a regulation that would force
journalists to reveal their sources in most cases.  Thousands of Hungarians have protested this year against
measures that they say allow greater government control of press
coverage. Political influence and the threat of fines may spawn
self-censorship in Hungary, UN Special Rapporteur Frank La Rue
said in April, adding that there was a “framework of control”
over the media. Public television fired the head of news
gathering last week after a probe into manipulated news reports.  Criminal-Procedure Changes  The regulation of the press is constitutional “in its aim
and system,” the state Media Authority said in an e-mailed
statement today in response to the court’s decision, adding that
the court’s decision won’t “substantially” affect the
authority’s work “in upholding the freedom of press and
speech.”  The ruling Fidesz party will strive to find a
“constitutional” solution on the aspects of the media and
criminal codes which the court vetoed today, state-run news
service MTI reported, citing Janos Lazar, the party’s
parliamentary  group leader.  The Constitutional Court annulled rules allowing the chief
prosecutor to hand-pick courts for trials, the possibility of
keeping a person in preliminary detention for five days without
pressing charges and barring a detained person from contacting a
lawyer in the first two days.  Hungary elected new top justices last week as part of a
judicial overhaul that ousted  Supreme Court  Chief Andras Baka.
Parliament elected Tunde Hando, a judge specialized in labor
disputes and the wife of Jozsef Szajer, a ruling party member
who helped rewrite the Constitution, as head of the judicial
agency.  The European Commission, the European Union’s executive
arm, has “serious concerns” about Hungary’s judicial overhaul,
Justice Commissioner  Viviane Reding  said in a letter to
Hungary’s government last week, Nepszabadsag reported on Dec.
16.  The U.S. is “deeply” concerned that Hungary’s democracy
is weakening as the government “eliminates” checks and
balances on its power, news website hvg.hu reported on Dec. 16,
citing an interview with Thomas O. Melia, Deputy Assistant
Secretary at the Department of State.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net 
Andras Gergely at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  