-- Hungary to Raise EU’s Highest Main Rate After IMF Interrupts Bailout Talks
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2011-12-20T08:47:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/hungary-to-raise-eu-s-highest-rates-after-imf-interrupts-talks.html
Hungary  will probably increase the
European Union’s highest benchmark interest rate after the
trading bloc and the  International Monetary Fund  suspended talks
about a bailout, threatening to pressure local assets.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank will today raise the benchmark two-
week deposit rate by a half point for a second month to 7
percent, according to 15 of 21  economists surveyed  by Bloomberg.
Two predicted a quarter-point increase and five forecast no
change. The decision will be announced at 2 p.m. in Budapest.
Traders’ one-month interest-rate bets rose to a two-year high
yesterday.  The central bank raised the benchmark rate on Nov. 29 for
the first time since January and said it was ready for further
monetary tightening if warranted by the outlook for inflation
and risk perception. The forint weakened on Dec. 16 when the EU
and the IMF interrupted talks with Hungary after Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban  moved to curb the central bank’s independence.  “The freeze in the informal talks is likely to deliver
underperformance of Hungarian assets in the final weeks of
December and raises the likelihood that the Monetary Council
will hike rates 50 basis points,”  Eszter Gargyan , a Budapest-
based economist at Citigroup Inc., wrote in a research report
yesterday. Gargyan earlier expected a 25 basis point rise in the
 base rate , she added. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Forint, Forward Agreements  The forint appreciated less than 0.1 percent to 302.92 per
euro by 9:40 a.m. in Budapest. It weakened 12 percent in the
second half of 2011, the worst performance among more than 170
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Forward-rate agreements used to bet on three-month interest
costs in one month fell 16 basis points to 7.17 percent after
reaching the highest since Sept. 2009 yesterday. The Budapest
Interbank Offered Rate, to which the FRAs settle, traded at 7.01
percent at yesterday’s close.  The Ceska Narodni Banka in  Prague  has left the two-week
repurchase rate unchanged at a record-low 0.75 percent since May
2010, a quarter of a percentage point below the  European Central
Bank ’s main refinancing rate after a 25 basis point ECB cut this
month.  Russia ’s central bank last month left the refinancing
rate at 8.25 percent. Romanian policy makers resumed cutting
rates on Nov. 2, bringing borrowing costs to a record-low 6
percent.  ‘Worsening Risk’  Hungary’s credit-default swaps, which measure the cost of
insuring government debt against non-payment, traded at 583
basis points yesterday, compared with 585 basis points at the
end of last month, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME)  and compiles prices quoted by dealers.  “The central bank emphasized the worsening risk perception
and the inflationary impact of a weaker forint at its last rate
decision,” Balint Torok, an analyst at Buda-Cash Brokerhaz
Zrt., wrote in a research report yesterday. “The focus will
most likely remain on financial stability at the upcoming
meetings.”  Consumer prices advanced 4.3 percent in November from a
year earlier, the most since April and faster than economists
forecast, after a 3.9 percent rise in October, the statistics
office in Budapest said on Dec. 13.  Hungary’s ruling Fidesz party yesterday submitted
amendments to the draft law which was criticized by the European
Central Bank for potentially hurting the bank’s independence.
The government failed to address some of the ECB’s key concerns,
Magyar Nemzeti Bank President Andras Simor told lawmakers
yesterday.  The central bank may keep borrowing costs unchanged on the
basis that markets stabilized since the November rate decision,
according to  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)   “That said, a rate hike is likely to be discussed,”
Gillian Edgeworth, a London-based economist at UniCredit, and
colleagues wrote in a research report dated Dec. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  