-- Unrest in West Kazakh Oil Region Under Control After 14 Deaths
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2011-12-19T10:57:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/unrest-in-west-kazakh-oil-region-under-control-after-14-deaths.html
Unrest in a western  Kazakhstan  oil-
producing region was brought under control after riots over the
weekend left 14 protesters dead, authorities said.  There were no reports of crimes or curfew violations last
night in the town of Zhanaozen, where the protests were
centered, the Kazakh Prosecutor’s General Office said in an e-
mailed statement today from Astana.  Violence erupted Dec. 16, Kazakhstan’s independence day,
after police fired on striking oil workers who had occupied a
city square for six months, the New York Times reported. Armed
“hooligans” attacked civilians and police and burned down city
hall, hotels and an administrative building belonging to
 KazMunaiGas Exploration Production (RDGZ) ’s Uzenmunaigas unit,
Prosecutor General Farhat Daulbayev said in a statement.  KazMunaiGas EP, the London-listed unit of Kazakhstan’s
national energy company, said production wasn’t harmed by the
rioting and its employees didn’t take part, according to a
statement Dec. 16. Security at the facilities has been
heightened, it said.  The oil producer has been hit by “illegal labor action”
over wages since May, which contributed to a 7 percent decline
in oil output in January through September from a year earlier,
the company said last month. KazMunaiGas EP fired about 1,300
workers involved in the protests at two units in Mangistau, its
biggest oil-production region, the company said in August.  Prime Minister Karim Masimov formed a government commission
to investigate the reasons behind the riots and establish the
amount of damage caused, according to an e-mailed statement
today from his office.  The prosecutor’s office today released a list of 11 people
killed and said three others had not yet been identified.  KazMunaiGas EP shares fell as much as 8.8 percent to $13.33
in  London , the biggest intraday decline since Aug. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  