-- Lira Heads for Record Low as Bank Dollar Sale Less Than Offered
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2011-12-19T15:29:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/turkish-lira-falls-as-central-bank-dollar-sale-less-than-offered.html
The lira headed for the lowest level
on record after the central bank sold less than it offered in a
dollar auction failing to meet dollar demand from banks.  The bank sold $100 million after offering to sell as much
as $150 million. Bids in the auction were $287 million. The lira
fell 0.6 percent to 1.8991 per dollar in Istanbul after the
announcement of the sale volume, its lowest level since at least
1981 on a closing basis. The currency’s one-day performance was
worse than all emerging market currencies after the South Korean
won.  The Turkish currency is the second-worst performing this
year among more than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, weakened by concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis will
damp growth in a region which buys half its exports and worsen
its record current-account deficit. The currency hit its
historic intraday low at 1.9096 per dollar on Oct. 4.  “State banks are buying dollars but we see no sales that
can counter this,” Baris Karaayvaz, a currency trader at
Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS in Istanbul, said by telephone. “The
liquidity in the market is very low and trade volumes are
thin.”  Inflation  The lira fell to its lowest level in more than three weeks
against an equally weighted euro and dollar currency basket.  “We are seeing dollar buying from different private and
state banks for the past three days and the currency basket
automatically falls when there are no sellers around,” Burcin Metin, chief currency trader at ING Bank AS in Istanbul, said in
e-mailed comments.   Yields  on two-year benchmark debt increased 17 basis
points, or 0.17 percentage point, the biggest rise since Nov.
25, a Royal Bank of Scotland index of the local securities
showed, on concern that a weaker lira may spur higher inflation
in 2012.  “January, February and March will the months when
inflation will be at its highest,” Gizem Oztok Altinsac,
economist at Garanti Investment, said in an e-mailed note.
“There is a high risk that Europe’s financial risks deepen in
this period.”  Dual Policy  Bonds yields have jumped from 8.4 percent in September to
10.46 percent today after the central bank almost doubled the
borrowing costs to rein in credit growth and the current-account
deficit via a dual rates policy, with lending rates as high as
12.5 percent.  “We expect the central bank to continue its current policy
in the first half of next year. That means  interest rates  will
remain high,” said Altinsac.  Inflation  accelerated to 9.5 percent in November from 7.7
percent a month earlier, the statistics office announced Dec. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  