-- HMV Group Has ‘Significant Doubt’ About Future
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2011-12-19T09:52:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/hmv-group-has-significant-doubt-about-future.html
     Dec. 19 (Bloomberg) -- HMV Group Plc, the U.K.’s biggest CD
and DVD retailer, said the economic downturn and weak trading
conditions may cast “significant doubt” on its ability to
continue.  The company said its first-half pretax loss from continuing
operations, before exceptional items, widened 32 percent from
last year to 36.4 million pounds ($56 million).  HMV has 163.7 million pounds of underlying net debt, up 7.9
percent on last year, the Maidenhead, England-based company said
in a regulatory statement. Same-store sales from continuing
operations fell 11.6 percent, compared with 15.5 percent last
year.  In June, HMV reported a 123.1 million-pound ($198 million)
full-year loss after taking impairment charges on the sales of
Canadian outlets and Waterstone’s book chain. The company said
it will cut back on CDs and DVDs in favor of consumer
electronics and expand HMV Live, its live-event business.  The board has “reasonable expectation” that the company
will have resources to continue for the foreseeable future, HMV
said. “However, the economic environment and trading
circumstances create material uncertainties which may cast
significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going
concern in the future.”  Possible Sale  The company has begun a review of HMV Live that may lead to
its sale in order to cut debt, Chief Executive Officer Simon Fox
said by phone. HMV paid about 60 million pounds for the business
and would “expect it to be a very desirable asset,” Fox said.
The unit is performing well, with attendance up 30 percent in
the summer festival season, he said.  The company has 90 million pounds of debt due in September
2013 and is looking to raise funds from a potential sale of HMV
Live before an interest-rate increase in January 2013, Fox said.
“It’s because our level of debt is too high,” he said.  HMV faces a “monumental task” to convince suppliers to
trade normally and banks that it can generate enough cash, said
 Philip Dorgan , an analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co., in a note.
“We think that it needs to sell off both Live and 7digital,”
he said.  Traditionally, HMV gets 30 percent of sales in December and
expects to benefit from Saturday trading in the run-up to
Christmas, Fox said. The company expects single-digit
contraction in December same-store sales, Fox said. Christmas
sales are “not where we want them to be,” he added.  Products such as MP3 players and headphones represent 12
percent of HMV U.K. sales, with 144 of the 256 stores refitted
with an extended technology range, Fox said.  The stock fell as much as 9.6 percent in London trading and
was down 4.7 percent at 3.69 pence at 9.05 a.m. Shares have
fallen 88.5 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  