-- Washi Kills 652 in Worst Philippine Storm of 2011 as Hundreds More Missing
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 2011-12-19T08:42:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/washi-kills-652-in-worst-philippine-storm-of-2011-as-hundreds-more-missing.html
The  Philippines ’ death toll from
Tropical Storm Washi rose to 632, making it the deadliest
cyclone to hit the nation in three years and sparking criticism
of the government’s lack of preparation.  Eighty-two people were still missing, the  National Disaster
Risk Reduction and Management Council  said in its noon report
today. The cities of Cagayan de Oro and Iligan on the southern
island of Mindanao are preparing mass graves because coffins are
in short supply and funeral parlors can’t keep up with the dead,
Ana Caneda, regional director of the Office of  Civil Defense ,
said by phone.  “The suffering here is unspeakable,” Philippine Red Cross
Chairman  Richard Gordon  said in a telephone interview today from
Iligan City, where he is helping oversee relief operations.
“The government should act here very fast. The people have
already suffered and they’re making them suffer more.” The  Red
Cross  put casualties at 652.  Washi pummeled northern Mindanao, which is unaccustomed to
cyclones, overflowing rivers and flooding coastal cities in the
early hours of Dec. 17 while people were sleeping. The death
toll from Washi surpassed that of Ketsana and Parma, which
killed 464 and 465, respectively, and together damaged 38
billion pesos ($867 million) of homes, infrastructure and farm
output. The Philippines is regularly battered by cyclones that
form over the  Pacific Ocean .  Better Preparation  “The costs are too high for us not to use what we have
learned from past experiences in better preparing ourselves for
future typhoons,” Senator Edgardo Angara, who heads the
congressional commission on science and technology, said in a
statement.  Damage to the farm sector is “still being assessed,”
Agriculture Secretary Proceso Alcala said in a report to
President  Benigno Aquino . Some 3,964 hectares of rice and corn
land was “affected” and the damage in value terms is about 8.1
million pesos, he said, citing a preliminary report.  Aquino ordered agencies to report how they responded to the
disaster, spokesman Edwin Lacierda told reporters in  Manila 
today. “We recognize that there have been a lot of deaths in
Mindanao and the President wants that looked into.”  The “government is fully equipped” and has 1.3 billion
pesos in ready-to-use calamity fund to assist storm victims,
Budget Secretary Florencio Abad said in a statement today.  ‘Clear And Present Danger’  “Climate change is a clear and present danger,” Senator
Loren Legarda, who heads the  climate change  committee, said in a
statement. “Demanding immediate government action to address
its impact is the very least we can do.”  The nation’s weather bureau warned on Dec. 16 against
floods, landslides and strong winds and placed more than a dozen
provinces on alert. Residents ignored flood warnings, Social
Welfare Secretary Dinky Soliman said on Dec. 17.  “It was an explosion of water that killed hundreds of
people in less than an hour,” Gordon said. Washi dumped 50
millimeters of rain per hour as forecast by foreign weather
agencies, higher than the 10 to 20 millimeters predicted by the
local weather agency, he said.  Northern Mindanao produces rice, the Philippines’ staple
food, and is also home to pineapple and banana plantations,
including those of  Del Monte Foods Co. (DLM) ’s local unit. The Red
Cross asked  Del Monte  to donate plywood used in packing fruits
for coffins, since most of the bodies are bloated and wouldn’t
fit in regular caskets, Gordon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  