-- Yanzhou Said to Plan $2 Billion Purchase of Gloucester Coal
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2011-12-20T03:26:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-19/yanzhou-coal-is-said-to-plan-2-billion-purchase-of-australia-s-gloucester.html
Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (1171) ,  China ’s
fourth-biggest producer, plans to buy Australia’s  Gloucester (GCL) 
Coal Ltd. for at least $2 billion, a person with knowledge of
the matter said, in what would be its second-largest acquisition.  The cash-and-stock bid for Gloucester, which has a market
value of A$1.4 billion ($1.4 billion), will be made by Yancoal
Australia, Yanzhou Coal’s Brisbane-based unit, the person said,
asking not to be identified as the details are confidential.  Buying Gloucester would give Yanzhou, which approved its
first debt sale this month, mines and access to ports in
Australia, the world’s biggest coal exporter. Any deal will need
support from the Sydney-based company’s controlling shareholder
Noble Group Ltd., which last month reported its first quarterly
loss in about 14 years.  “A lot of the Yancoal assets are built on promises, saying
they will get port and rail allocations, whereas Gloucester has
already locked this in with its projects already in
production,” Anna Kassianos, senior analyst at Platypus Asset
Management Ltd. in Sydney said today by phone. “Yancoal also
needs to list by the end of next year, and this is a good way to
satisfy the listing requirement.”  Gloucester halted its shares from trading today, flagging a
“possible change of control transaction.” It dropped 0.6
percent to A$7.03 in Sydney yesterday, taking its decline for
the year to 42 percent. Yanzhou halted its shares from trading
in  Hong Kong  today, pending a “price-sensitive” statement.  Record Year  Coal deals involving companies in Australia swelled to a
record $11.9 billion this year from $9.44 billion in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The largest transaction
was Peabody Energy Corp.’s $4 billion takeover of Macarthur Coal
Ltd. in July. The average premium paid globally this year in
coal acquisitions is 19 percent, the data show.  Producers are seeking to expand as demand from power
utilities and steelmakers rises, while asset prices drop. Global
consumption of the fuel is projected to climb by an annual 2.8
percent in the six years to 2016, driven by China’s economic
growth, the  International Energy Agency  said last week.  Buying Mines  Yancoal may spend more than $1 billion buying mines in
Australia, Murray Bailey, managing director of the unit, said in
a September interview. Yanzhou Coal, which has said it plans an
initial public offering of its Australian assets, will use the
Gloucester purchase as a means of listing Yancoal in the country,
the person said.  Spokesmen for Yancoal and  Noble (NOBL)  in Australia declined to
comment when contacted by phone.  Yanzhou’s shares will be suspended from today because of a
“proposed transaction,” according to a statement to the
 Shanghai Stock Exchange  yesterday. The stock has fallen 34
percent in Hong Kong this year. Noble shares have declined 46
percent this year and rose 5.4 percent to S$1.165 in  Singapore 
at 9:49 a.m. local time.  Noble, a Singapore-listed commodities supplier, owns 64.5
percent of Gloucester, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Noble, whose main business involves trading and shipping bulk
commodities including coal, took control of the company in 2009
when it offered A$7 a share. Chief Executive Officer Ricardo Leiman quit last month after Noble reported a third-quarter loss
of $17.5 million.  Trading Company  “Noble is a trading company really, and those companies
probably don’t have a lot of capital to plough into businesses
like” Gloucester,  Peter Chilton , who helps manage about $790
million at Constellation Capital Management LLC in Sydney, said
by phone. “The real thing is the margins from the marketing,
more than owning and physically developing coal mines.”  Buying Gloucester will give Yancoal two coal mines in New
South Wales, in the same state as some of Yancoal’s assets.
Gloucester also owns a 50 percent stake in the Middlemount
coking coal mine in Queensland state.  Yanzhou Coal this month proposed selling as much as 15
billion yuan ($2.4 billion) in bonds over three years. Buying
Gloucester would follow its A$3.1 billion acquisition of Felix
Resources Ltd. in 2009, in what was China’s biggest takeover of
an Australian company at the time.  Australia ’s foreign takeover regulator, the Foreign
Investment Review Board, ruled at the time of the Felix takeover
that Yanzhou must list a minimum of 30 percent of its Australian
assets by the end of 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  