-- Hong Kong Watchdog Seeks China Metal Wind-Up After Overstatement
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-07-29T16:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/h-k-securities-regulator-files-to-wind-up-china-metal-recycling.html
China Metal Recycling Holdings Ltd. (773) ,
once ranked the nation’s biggest scrap metal recycler, faces a
winding-up petition after Hong Kong’s securities regulator said
it found evidence the company fabricated sales.  The Hong Kong-based company, which counted China’s biggest
steelmaker among its customers, inflated the size of its business
to gain a listing in the city in 2009, the Securities and Futures
Commission said yesterday in a statement. The regulator said it
obtained court orders to appoint provisional liquidators.  China Metal Recycling shares have been suspended from
trading since January after it was the target of allegations by
short-seller Glaucus Research Group. Hong Kong regulators are
seeking to toughen enforcement and rules governing share sales
after a series of accounting scandals at Chinese companies shook
investor confidence.  “It’s proactive on the SFC’s part in order to preserve
shareholders’ funds,” said Jeff Maddox, a Hong Kong-based
partner at Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP.  Alan Fung, China Metal Recycling’s group finance director,
didn’t answer calls to his office and an e-mailed request for
comment.  China Metal Recycling, which first sold shares in June 2009,
suspended trading on Jan. 28 after Glaucus Research made
allegations against the company and  rated  it a “strong sell.”
The company called the claims groundless and said at the time
its chairman planned legal action against the short-seller.  Two Liquidators  The regulator has appointed two provisional liquidators
from Borrelli Walsh Ltd. to the company, in an application made
on July 26, according to a statement yesterday from China Metal
Recycling. They have the power to take over the company’s
operations and assets and investigate its affairs.  “The provisional liquidators will be undertaking an urgent
assessment of the operations of the company and its subsidiaries
in consultation with the management of the company,” according
to the company’s statement. The shares will remain suspended.  Wellrun Ltd., the company’s largest shareholder, objects to
the SFC’s application and believes it’s not beneficial to
shareholders, it said yesterday in a statement. Wellrun’s sole
beneficial owner is  China  Metal Recycling’s Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Chun Chi Wai.  Share Sale  On Jan. 25, Chun said he would sell 29 percent of the
company’s stock under his ownership for at least HK$3.41 billion
to China Energy Conservation and Environmental Protection Group.
The sale would leave Chun with 23.1 percent of the company and
make the buyer its largest shareholder. On July 1, the company
said the sale had yet to occur and that new conditions had been
attached to its completion, including a deadline of Dec. 31.  The company raised HK$1.55 billion ($199.8 million) when it
sold shares in June 2009. Wong Hok-leung, a former chief
financial officer, resigned in November 2009 after saying he was
denied proper access to the company’s financial information. The
company called Wong’s allegations unfounded.  Angel Yeung, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for UBS AG,
which managed the 2009 share sale, could not immediately comment
on the SFC statement.  The SFC has proposed making banks criminally liable for
false statements in initial public offering documents after a
series of accounting scandals involving Chinese companies eroded
investor confidence. Hontex International Holdings Co. agreed in
June 2012 to pay shareholders $133 million to end a lawsuit that
the SFC brought against it for misleading investors in its
prospectus.  China Metal Recycling said on July 1 it was again delaying
its 2012 annual results announcement as its auditors needed more
time.  The case is Securities and Futures Commission and China
Metal Recycling Holdings Limited, HCCW 210/2013, Hong Kong’s
Court of First Instance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  