-- Abraaj, Aydinlar Sell $252 Million Stake in Turkish Insurer
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-07-29T11:49:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/abraaj-aydinlar-sell-252-million-stake-in-turkish-insurer.html
The Abraaj Group, the  Middle East ’s
biggest buyout company, and the Mehmet Ali Aydinlar family
agreed to sell a 90 percent stake in a Turkish health insurer to
a Malaysian sovereign investment fund for $252 million.  Abraaj will sell its 50 percent stake in  Acıbadem Sağlık ve
Hayat Sigorta AŞ  and the Aydinlars the remainder to a unit of
Khazanah Nasional Berhad, Abraaj and Khazanah said in separate
statements today. Mehmet Ali Aydinlar will continue to hold a 10
percent stake in the insurance company, Khazanah said.  Abraaj, which manages $7.5 billion and is based in Dubai,
plans to sell two to three of its investments this year to
attract fresh capital, senior partner Ahmed Badreldin said April
8. The company is seeking to divest stakes in Middle Eastern
supermarket chain Spinneys, a Tunisian pharmaceuticals company
and a unit of oil-and gas-service company Stanford Marine Group,
a person with knowledge of the matter said earlier this year,
asking not to be identified because the plans aren’t public.  Abraaj invested in Acıbadem Sigorta in 2007 following a
partnership with Mehmet Ali Aydinlar, chairman and chief
executive officer of Acibadem Healthcare, one of  Turkey ’s
largest private healthcare groups. Abraaj divested its stake in
Acibadem Healthcare in January 2012 to  IHH Healthcare Berhad (IHH)  and
Khazanah in exchange of cash and shares in IHH, while retaining
its 50 per cent shareholding in Acıbadem Sigorta.  Lazard and Raiffeisen Investment were financial advisers to
Abraaj and the Aydınlar family, while Freshfields Bruckhaus
Deringer and Kinstellar acted as legal advisers.  Bank of America 
Merrill Lynch and CIMB were joint financial advisors to
Avicennia Capital and Khazanah. The deal is subject to
regulatory approvals in Turkey and  Malaysia , the companies said.  Istanbul-based Acibadem Sigorta provides health insurance
services to corporate and individual customers in Turkey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  