-- Macquarie-Backed OzForex Said to Weigh A$500 Million Sydney IPO
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2013-07-29T21:45:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/macquarie-backed-ozforex-said-to-weigh-a-500-million-sydney-ipo.html
OzForex Pty, an online foreign
exchange company backed by  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  and  Carlyle
Group LP (CG) , is considering an initial public offering that may
raise as much as A$500 million ($462 million), three people with
knowledge of the matter said.  OzForex is meeting investors to gauge their interest in a
potential IPO that could take place as early as this year, said
two of the people, who asked not to be identified as the process
is private. The company’s owners, which include  Accel Partners ,
are also considering a sale of OzForex to a single buyer, the
people said.  At A$500 million, the IPO would be the largest in Australia
in three years. The country’s benchmark S&P/ASX200 index has
advanced 19 percent in the past 12 months as the central bank
cut  interest rates  to spur economic growth amid a slowdown in
 China .  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Macquarie are working with
OzForex on the sale, the people said.  OzForex has 2 million monthly website visitors and had $12
billion of transactions last year, including money transfers and
overseas payments. The company posted pretax profit of  A$24.2
million  on revenue of A$50 million for the 12 months through
March, according to its website.  Aurizon IPO  OzForex is considering a sale to other private equity firms
as well as a potential IPO, Chief Executive Officer Neil Helm
said in an interview with the Australian Financial Review last
month. Helm didn’t specify the amount OzForex might seek, or
name any potential buyers.  David Symons , an external spokesman for OzForex at Cato
Counsel, said in an interview yesterday that the company is
meeting investors, without commenting further. Navleen Prasad, a
Sydney-based spokeswoman for Macquarie, declined to comment.
Hayley Morris, a Sydney-based spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs,
could not immediately be reached.  An IPO could be the largest since rail company  Aurizon
Holdings Ltd. (AZJ)  raised A$4.1 billion in October 2010, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Shopping Centres Australasia
Property Group raised A$472 million in an IPO in October.
Aurizon is up 78 percent from its offer price, while  Shopping
Centres (SCP)  has gained 16 percent, the data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  