-- African Barrick Gold Sued in U.K. by Tanzanians Over Mine Deaths
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s   a n d   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2013-07-29T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/african-barrick-gold-sued-in-u-k-by-tanzanians-over-mine-deaths.html
African Barrick Gold Plc (ABG)  was sued
over the deaths and injuries of Tanzanian villagers including
one incident where five men were shot and killed at the North
Mara gold mine in May 2011.  At least 12 villagers filed a lawsuit in London accusing
the company and North Mara Gold Mine Ltd. of using excessive
force to protect the mine, according to law firm Leigh Day &
Co., which represents the group. The company operates four mines
in Tanzania.  “Unfortunately, these are not isolated incidents,”
Richard Meeran, a lawyer at Leigh Day, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We are aware of many other instances in which local
people have reportedly been seriously injured or killed at ABG’s
mine.”  Foreign claimants file lawsuits in London even when the
disputes have little connection to the U.K.  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA)  was sued by thousands of Nigerians in the U.K. courts in
March 2012 claiming their land, rivers and wetlands were spoiled
by two oil spills in the Niger River delta in 2008.  African Barrick said in a statement that the allegations
stem from an incident that involved “violent intruders” who
invaded the mine.  “After receiving repeated warnings of the risks associated
with such activities, some of these intruders were injured by
members of the Tanzanian police acting in self-defense or in
defense of the safety of mine employees,” the company said in
the statement.  A London judge last week ruled  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ’s South
African unit couldn’t be sued in the U.K by hundreds of miners
who blame the company for dust in African  gold mines  that they
say caused  lung disease .  The case is Magige Ghati Kesabo v African Barrick Gold Plc
in the U.K.  High Court  of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division, Case
No. HQ13X02118  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  