-- Magnit Tumbles as Mayor Calls for Store Checks: Moscow Mover
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-07-29T13:56:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/magnit-tumbles-as-mayor-calls-for-store-checks-moscow-mover.html
OAO Magnit fell on concern  Russia ’s
biggest food retailer may be forced to shut stores in Moscow.  Magnit dropped as much as 3 percent, trading down 1.9
percent by 5:33 p.m. in Moscow. The volume of shares traded was
equivalent to about 73 percent of the three-month average. The
company’s global depositary receipts fell 2.5 percent to $58.45
in  London . Magnit is the  best performer  on the Micex with a 67
percent gain this year and has the fourth-biggest weighting at
6.1 percent.  Moscow Mayor  Sergei Sobyanin  on July 26 called for health
inspectors, police and the migration service to check the
company’s 43 stores in the capital and “take measures to close
them,” according to the city government’s  website  and confirmed
by the city government’s spokeswoman Gulnara Penkova. A Magnit
representative, who asked not to be identified, citing company
policy, declined to comment on the report.  “This is bad news for the entire retail sector,” Ksenia Arutyunova, an analyst at Rye, Man & Gor Securities, said by
phone from Moscow.  X5 Retail Group NV (FIVE)  was fined about 11 million rubles
($335,608) by the Russian consumer watchdog for technical,
consumer rights violations, after 195 stores in Moscow were
checked as part of a “planned probe” in April and May, Roman
Chereshnev, an X5 spokesman, said by phone today. X5 has paid
most of the fine, he said.  Chereshnev didn’t have information about the number of X5’s
Moscow stores closed due to violations, while the Kommersant
newspaper reported on July 27 that four stores were closed for
30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  