-- AIG to Shut Bank Accounts in Dodd-Frank Deposits Retreat
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-07-29T22:13:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/aig-to-return-deposits-shut-bank-accounts-in-dodd-frank-retreat.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
will return funds to customers of its banking unit and shut
their accounts as the Dodd-Frank Act places limits on insurers
with deposit-taking units.  AIG Federal Savings Bank “will no longer be servicing
retail deposit accounts as of Sept. 30,” according to a letter
to customers. “All accounts will be automatically closed as of
that date and any funds, including all interest due on your
accounts, will be returned.”  AIG is joining  Principal Financial Group Inc. (PFG)  in narrowing
its focus ahead of rules that limit proprietary trading and
investments in private-equity or  hedge funds  by insurers with
bank units.  MetLife Inc. (MET) , Hartford Financial Services Group Inc.
and Allstate Corp. have sold deposits or retreated from banking
as regulators increase oversight.  “AIG Federal Savings Bank is currently undergoing an
orderly transition from a traditional savings bank to a trust
only thrift,” Jon Diat, a spokesman for the New York-based
insurer, said in an e-mail yesterday.
  Robert Benmosche , the chief executive officer of New York-based AIG, said last year that the insurer was weighing whether
to shutter its bank to limit the effects of the Volcker rule.
AIG is a savings and loan holding company, and some of the
restrictions may apply to the company even if it ends its bank
status, according to the insurer’s annual report.  The bank had 30 employees and $920.5 million in assets as
of March 31, according to Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  data .
The Wilmington, Delaware-based unit offered products including
mortgages and certificates of deposit through its website and
over the phone.  Life Insurance  AIG, which offers property-casualty coverage, life
insurance and investment products, had about $548.9 billion in
assets as of March 31.  Principal agreed last month to sell $200 million of
deposits from its bank unit and said it’s seeking to divest
commercial loans to end its status as a savings and loan holding
company. The  Des Moines , Iowa-based insurer has said its bank
will operate as a limited-purpose trust institution after the
sales are complete and will continue offering individual
retirement accounts.  Diat didn’t immediately respond to questions about AIG’s
plans for its bank assets.  The Volcker rule, named for former Federal Reserve Chairman
 Paul Volcker , limits proprietary trading and investing in hedge
funds and private equity. The rule contains an exemption for
trading by insurers for their general accounts. As of March 31,
AIG had $18.9 billion of alternative investments, a category
that includes hedge funds and private equity, according to a
 document  on the company’s website.  Banking Oversight  AIG’s banking role made the Office of Thrift Supervision
its primary federal regulator prior to the financial crisis. The
OTS said in 2009 that it “fell short” in its oversight of AIG
and failed to recognize the risk of the firm’s credit-default
swap portfolio. After the bets went against AIG, the insurer
received a U.S. rescue that swelled to $182.3 billion. AIG
repaid the bailout last year.  Most OTS functions have since been assumed by the Office of
the Comptroller of the Currency. The Fed now oversees AIG, and
the company’s insurance units are subject to regulation from
state watchdogs.  AIG was designated as systemically important this month, a
label that may subject the company to extra Fed oversight and
tighter capital rules. The designation means regulators decided
that the company could pose a threat to the financial system if
it were to fail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  