-- Air Indus Starts Local Pakistan Flights in Bid to Challenge PIA
-- B y   F a s e e h   M a n g i
-- 2013-07-29T19:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/air-indus-starts-local-pakistan-flights-in-bid-to-challenge-pia.html
Air Indus Pvt., the first Pakistani
airline to start operations in almost a decade, plans to begin
services to the  Middle East  next year, increasing competition
for the loss-making  Pakistan  International Airlines Corp.  The carrier, which started operations July 28 with a flight
to Pakistan’s capital Islamabad from its Karachi base, will seek
to fly to countries including the  United Arab Emirates , Malaysia
and  Thailand  after the mandatory one year of domestic flights,
Salman Ghazali, senior marketing manager at Air Indus, said by
phone yesterday. The airline will initially offer two daily
services each to Lahore and Islamabad and one to Quetta and
plans to reach seven destinations next month.  The new airline joins  Shaheen Air International Ltd . and
Airblue Ltd. in competing for passengers in a market once
dominated by the flag carrier Pakistan International Airlines,
known as PIA. PIA, which has posted eight consecutive annual
losses, has seen departures drop by about 10,000 in the last two
years amid delays in upgrading an aging fleet, according to its
latest annual report.  “Competition is great,” Sajid Habib, former deputy
director general of Pakistan’s  Civil Aviation Authority , said by
telephone. “Air Indus may get passengers and dent PIA’s
operations if flights are on time.”  Prime Minister  Nawaz Sharif , who returned to power in May,
aims to boost  economic growth  to 4.4 percent and keep inflation
in single digits this fiscal year. The government reached
agreement with the  International Monetary Fund  this month on a
$5.3 billion loan to boost the nation’s depleted currency
reserves and help stabilize its struggling economy.  Boeing Fleet  Air Indus operates a fleet of two Boeing Co. 737-300 and
one 737-301 aircraft, according to its  website.  The aircraft
offers 148 economy class seats on each flight.  “The response was better than our expectation,” Ghazali
said about the airline’s first flight. “We had 90 people in the
148-seat plane. Our commercial load was full, some guests could
not make it. The way people are booking and travel agents are
calling means there is a good response.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Faseeh Mangi in Karachi at 
 fmangi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  