-- Air Arabia Climbs as U.A.E. Passenger Traffic Jumps
-- B y   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i
-- 2013-07-29T14:38:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/air-arabia-climbs-as-u-a-e-passenger-traffic-jumps-dubai-mover.html
Air Arabia PJSC (AIRARABI)  gained the most in
almost two weeks on bets the United Arab Emirates low-cost
carrier will benefit from a jump in passenger traffic through
the country’s airports.  Shares of airline, which is based in the U.A.E. emirate
Sharjah, advanced 3.2 percent, the most since July 17, to 1.30
dirhams at the close in the emirate. Almost 34 million shares
were traded. The stock was the  second-biggest  gainer on the
benchmark  DFM General Index (DFMGI) , which rose 0.3 percent. The carrier
is expected to report earnings on Aug. 8, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Dubai, which plans to double the number of visitors to 20
million by 2020, posted an 18 percent advance in passenger
traffic through its airport in June, according to data released
today. Air Arabia said last month it plans to start flights to
the Armenian capital of Yerevan in August, the fifth new route
this year and its 86th globally, from hub in Sharjah, which
neighbors Dubai, as well as  Egypt  and  Morocco .  “We expect investors are accumulating the stock prior to
second-quarter results,” said Tariq Qaqish, head of asset
management at Dubai-based Al Mal Capital PSC. “The results will
continue to show strong passenger growth, solid  load factor  and
better revenue per passenger.”  Air Arabia may post a 3.3 percent increase to 67.2 million
dirhams ($18 million) in second-quarter profit,  according to  an
estimate from Securities & Investments Co. Its full-year profit
will probably 9 percent to 457.9 million dirhams, according to
the  mean estimate  of eight analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Nine analysts recommend investors buy the shares, while
five have a hold rating on the stock, according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Deema Almashabi in Riyadh at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  