-- Malians Vote for President Seeking Aid to Rebuild Economy
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   R i h o u a y   a n d   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2013-07-29T08:59:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/malians-vote-for-president-seeking-aid-to-rebuild-economy.html
Former Malian Prime Minister Ibrahim Boubacar Keita and ex-Finance Minister Soumaila Cisse are seen
as front-runners in yesterday’s presidential vote, the first
since an army coup and French military intervention against
rebels in the north.  Keita, 68, and Cisse, a 63-year-old former commission
chairman of the West African Monetary Union, are among 27
candidates standing for office. International donors deemed the
election necessary before they can resume aid to the country.
Most polling stations closed at 6 p.m. local time, Youssouf
Toure, a spokesman for the electoral commission, said by phone.
Provisional results may be announced by Wednesday.  Voting “has gone well so far,” Louis Michel, head of the
European Union observer mission, told reporters in Bamako, the
capital, after polls closed. “I think the vote has been
transparent, but I would like to meet with the other observers
from the EU and with the other observation missions to have a
more specific idea.”  Mali ,  Africa ’s third-biggest gold producer, has been
gripped by conflict for more than a year after an ethnic-Touareg
uprising in the north prompted a group of soldiers to overthrow
the government. French and pan-African forces subsequently
intervened to restore order after the Touaregs joined Islamist
militants in an offensive that almost split the nation in half.  Constitutional Order  “This election consecrates Mali’s return to constitutional
order after victory over the terrorists and the liberation of
its territory,” French President  Francois Hollande ’s office
said in an e-mailed statement today. “The unprecedented levels
of participation witnessed in Mali yesterday is a testament to
the attachment Malians have to democratic principles.”  A run-off may be held Aug. 11 because the first round
probably won’t produce an outright victor, according to a survey
this month by the Center for Statistical Studies and Applied
Informatics in Bamako. Of the 5,385 people questioned, 41
percent said they support Boubacar Keita and 20 percent Cisse.  Mali’s electoral commission said this month it would be
“extremely difficult” for all 6.9 million eligible voters to
cast a ballot. At least half a million residents have fled from
the north to the south or to neighboring countries, according to
the  United Nations . Interim ruler Dioncounda Traore isn’t
eligible to stand for election under an accord brokered by
international mediators last year.  Economy ‘Pathetic’  “These elections are important as many foreign donors want
to help Mali and they want a stable government,” Lala Toure, a
retired 63-year-old teacher, said at a polling station in Bamako
yesterday. “The economic situation is pathetic. Since the
crisis started, we are at a stalemate. The business is slow and
we hope everything will go back to normal after the election.”  International donors say a vote must be held before they
can start providing as much as $4 billion in aid pledged in May.  The election “appears to be seen as a box to be ticked
before the political class and international partners can get
down to do serious business,” said Brussels-based  International
Crisis Group , which recommended delaying the election by three
months.  Gold Mining  Mali’s $10.6 billion economy contracted 1.2 percent in
2012, according to the  International Monetary Fund . It may
expand 4.8 percent this year because gold mining hasn’t been
affected by the fighting, according to the fund.  AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  and  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS)  are among the miners in
Mali.  Some of the 21,124 polling stations nationwide didn’t get
all the equipment needed and experienced difficulty operating
early yesterday. As many as 85 percent of the voting cards were
distributed as of July 26, according to Gamer Dicko, head of
communications at the Ministry of Territorial Administration.  Malian and French troops and UN peacekeepers guarded
stations to ensure safety, Modibo Traore, a spokesman for the
Malian army, said. Members of the National Movement for the
Liberation of Azawad, a Touareg rebel group, protested against
the elections in the northern town of Kidal, he said.  “Everything is going fine in terms of security,” Traore
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francois Rihouay in Bamako at 
 frihouay@bloomberg.net ;
Olivier Monnier in Bamako at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  