-- Amazon Hiring 5,000 in Warehouses to Meet Customer Demand
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2013-07-29T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/amazon-hiring-5-000-in-warehouses-to-meet-customer-demand.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  is boosting staff
in 17 U.S. warehouses, adding more than 5,000 full-time jobs to
meet brisk demand for products sold by the world’s biggest Web
retailer.  The new hires will join more than 20,000 employees working
at Amazon’s more than three dozen U.S. fulfillment centers, the
Seattle-based company said in a statement today. Amazon is also
hiring 2,000 customer-service staff, including part-time and
seasonal workers.  The retailer plans to open five more facilities this year,
after adding 20 last year. Warehouse expenses have more than
doubled during the past three years, as Chief Executive Officer
 Jeff Bezos  opens centers full of products closer to consumers in
order to reduce shipping costs and speed up delivery. Higher
spending contributed to Amazon’s surprise net loss for the
second quarter as the online seller continues to fuel revenue
growth at the expense of profits.  “As we get closer and closer to customers with
fulfillment, we have seen growth,” Amazon Chief Financial
Officer Thomas Szkutak said on a conference call July 25.  That growth is also being driven by Amazon Prime members,
who pay $79 a year in exchange for unlimited two-day shipping
and access to streaming video, Szkutak said.  “Because of our fulfillment logistics capability, we’ve
been able to offer Prime broadly,” Szkutak said.  Subscribers to the shopping program spend three to four
times more than those who aren’t members, according to  Colin Sebastian , an analyst at Robert Baird & Co. in San Francisco who
rates the stock the equivalent of a buy.  Amazon’s distribution-center costs are driven in part by
wages. Median pay is 30 percent higher than “people who work in
traditional retail stores,” the company said. That pay doesn’t
include stock grants available to full-time employees, which
have added an average of 9 percent to base pay annually during
the past five years, Amazon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  