-- America Movil Free to Raise KPN Stake as Pact Ends
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-07-29T20:12:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/america-movil-ends-standstill-pact-with-kpn-keeps-board-members.html
Billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s  America
Movil SAB (AMXL)  ended an agreement with  Royal KPN NV (KPN)  that capped the
Mexican company’s stake in the Dutch phone carrier at about 30
percent, clearing the way for it to boost its stake.  KPN shares jumped as much as 5.6 percent after KPN and
America Movil, its largest shareholder, said the Feb. 20 pact is
being terminated immediately. If it raises its stake above 30
percent, Mexico City-based America Movil would have to bid for
all of the company’s shares, according to Dutch law.  Slim now has more freedom to use KPN to expand in Europe as
the region’s telecommunications market consolidates. America
Movil spent about $4 billion increasing its stake in KPN last
year, after bidding 8 euros a share. The stock now trades at
less than 2 euros.  “We still believe America Movil came to Europe to have a
stronghold in several countries, not to consolidate or break up
KPN,” said Javier Borrachero, an analyst at Kepler Capital
Markets, in a note today  KPN  traded  4.6 percent higher at 1.98 euros at the close in
Amsterdam. The stock had fallen to 1.39 euros in June. America
Movil slid 3.3 percent to 13.34 pesos. It has lost 10 percent
this year in Mexico City trading.  German Deal  America Movil didn’t say in its statement whether it plans
to raise its holding in former Dutch phone monopoly KPN.  To buy KPN outright, America Movil would need to cancel a
share buyback and obtain $4 billion of debt financing, Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. analysts said in a note last week. It could
also partner with AT&T Inc. for a bid, they said.  Last week, KPN agreed to sell its German wireless carrier
E-Plus to  Telefonica Deutschland Holding AG (O2D) , controlled by
Spain’s largest phone company and owner of the O2 brand in
 Germany , in a deal valued at 8.1 billion euros ($10.7 billion).
It’s unclear whether Slim personally supports the E-Plus sale,
two people familiar with the matter have said.  “The deal is likely to go through as it would be hard for
America Movil to scupper a deal at a vote in the absence of a
better alternative and we do not think America Movil has the
balance sheet to muster one,”  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at
Sanford, said in an e-mail.  Board Members  America Movil may keep its two nominees on KPN’s
supervisory board as long as it holds a stake of 20 percent or
more, the companies said.  “America Movil has continued to evaluate the expansion of
its operations in other regions outside the Americas,” the
company said last year in a statement. “Geographic
diversification is a key element that has provided great
stability to its cash flow and profitability.”  The Netherlands is emerging as one center of dealmaking
activity as intensifying competition and slowing sales in
Europe’s telecommunications industry is leading to
consolidation. John Malone’s Liberty Global Plc said last week
it raised its stake in Dutch cable-television operator  Ziggo NV (ZIGGO) ,
a KPN rival, to 28.5 percent from 18.2 percent, which it said
was for strategic reasons.  Ziggo shares  jumped  as much as 5.9 percent to 29.60 euros
and were up 4.1 percent at 29.08 euros at 11:48 a.m. in
Amsterdam.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  