-- Hammerson Net Asset Value Gains as Rental Income Climbs
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-07-29T15:55:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/hammerson-net-asset-value-gains-as-reit-s-rental-income-climbs.html
Hammerson Plc (HMSO) , Britain’s third-largest real estate company by market capitalization, said the
value of its properties climbed in the first half on rising
rents.  Adjusted net asset value increased to 551 pence ($8.48) on
June 30 from 542 pence six months earlier, the London-based
company said in a statement today. Adjusted earnings per share
gained 8.8 percent to 11.1 pence and Hammerson increased its
dividend for the first half by 7.8 percent to 8.3 pence.  “While household budgets in the U.K. and  France  remain
under pressure, there are encouraging signs of improvement in
macroeconomic conditions in the U.K.,” Chief Executive Officer
David Atkins said in the statement. Hammerson’s management of
its shopping malls “allows us to maintain high occupancy,
secure new tenants on attractive terms and consistently grow
rental income.”  Hammerson is spending more on its leisure stores and
luxury-outlet malls as it seeks to increase shareholder returns
at a time of weak economic growth in  Europe . The developer
invested 78 million pounds in Value Retail Plc, Europe’s third-biggest outlet-mall owner by floor space, in June and July,
according to today’s statement. Hammerson is developing a
cinema, catering and bingo stores in Glasgow and is bringing
more restaurants into other malls.  Hammerson was unchanged at 520.5 pence in London trading,
after declining for five straight sessions. The shares have
gained 6.6 percent this year, while the FTSE 350 Real Estate
Investment Trust Index has advanced 11 percent.  The amount of money spent by overseas visitors at Value
Retail’s European outlet malls has gained  39 percent this year,
led by Chinese shoppers, Atkins said on a call with reporters.
Hammerson’s Value Retail stake now accounts for about 15 percent
of the mall developer’s business and the company will try to
increase its holding as smaller investors sell out, Atkins said.  Net initial yields may fall “slightly” in the second half
from the current level of 5.3 percent, meaning the value of
Hammerson’s malls would rise, Atkins said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  