-- Mandiri Investasi to Buy Consumer Stocks When Rupiah Gap Narrows
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o   a n d   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-07-29T03:43:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/mandiri-investasi-to-buy-consumer-stocks-when-rupiah-gap-narrows.html
PT Mandiri Manajemen Investasi  has
tripled cash holdings over the past two months and will start
buying consumer stocks once the rupiah stabilizes and inflation
peaks, Chief Investment Officer Priyo Santoso said.  The asset-management unit of Indonesia’s largest bank
currently has 10 percent to 15 percent of its 22 trillion rupiah
($2.1 billion) of holdings in cash, Santoso said in a July 26
interview in Jakarta. The fund will add shares including  PT
Unilever Indonesia (UNVR) , PT Kalbe Farma and  PT Indofood CBP Sukses
Makmur (INDF)  when the gap between the rupiah spot rate and one-month
non-deliverable forwards narrows to 0.5 percent to 0.6 percent,
from 2 percent now, he said.  Global funds have pulled $4.6 billion from Indonesian
stocks and local-currency bonds since the Federal Reserve said
May 22 that it could reduce stimulus that has fueled fund flows
to  emerging markets . The rupiah fell by the most since September
2011 last week as the central bank allowed a more rapid slide
toward levels quoted in the offshore market. Santoso said he
expects inflation to peak in July or August after the government
raised subsidized fuel prices in June.  “A narrowing gap between the NDF and the onshore spot is
an indication that pressure on the rupiah has eased, which will
be a signal for foreign investors to start returning,” Santoso
said. “Once inflation peaks, we see that as our entry point.”  Accelerating Inflation  Consumer-price gains  should average 7.8 percent to 8.2
percent in 2013, Santoso said. Inflation will be 8.08 percent
this month, compared with 5.9 percent in June, according to the
median estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg before data
due Aug. 1. Consumer prices rose 4.3 percent in 2012.  The  Jakarta Composite (JCI)  index has lost 11 percent since May
22, while the yield on the government’s 10-year bonds increased
2.26 percentage points to 7.96 percent.  The rupiah was steady at 10,268 per dollar as of 9:57 a.m.
in Jakarta after falling 1.8 percent last week, according to
prices from local banks. The currency weakened beyond 10,000 per
dollar for the first time since 2009 in July and has lost 8
percent in 12 months. One-month non-deliverable forwards
declined 0.1 percent 10,475, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The spot rate was as much as 5.1 percent weaker than the
forwards on June 20.  The country’s current-account deficit, estimated by the
central bank to be 3.5 percent of gross domestic product last
quarter, suggests the rupiah should trade at about 10,300 to
10,500 per dollar, Santoso said.  The Jakarta Consumer Goods index traded at 25.5 times
projected earnings, compared with 13.6 times for the Jakarta
Composite index gauge. Mandiri is positive on consumer stocks,
as well as retail and construction companies, Santoso said.  ‘High Survivability’  “These are the sectors with a high survivability rate
during times of uncertainty like what we are facing now,” he
said. Many of these shares are expensive, Santoso said, adding
that Mandiri would look to day-to-day moves in prices to create
buying opportunities.  The lender is underweight or has zero positions on coal and
some mining stocks, while the outlook for plantation shares
remains challenging, Santoso said. The fund prefers holding
short-tenor sovereign debt because of the quickening inflation,
he said.  “Foreign investors have started to do bottom-fishing,
while the market is under pressure, which is a good sign,” he
said. “Foreign sentiment is a significant factor in  Indonesia ,
as local investors tend to wait for them to make the first
move.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net ;
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  