-- Argentine Housing Bust Has Government Dialing for Dollars
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2013-07-29T04:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/argentine-housing-bust-has-government-dialing-for-dollars.html
In a region where booming real
estate markets have governments from  Chile  to  Brazil  to  Colombia 
warning of potential property bubbles, Argentina stands out as a
bust.  Two years after President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner 
clamped down on Argentines’ purchase of dollars, the currency of
choice for real-estate transactions, the housing industry is
grinding to a halt. While prices soared to records in Sanhattan,
a high-end strip in Santiago, Rio de Janeiro and Medellin,
Colombia, in Buenos Aires they dropped an average 1.2 percent in
the second quarter from the previous three months, the first
decline in data that goes back to 2005.  “The main issue in Argentina is that the real estate
market has historically been transacted in dollars so when you
make it impossible for people to source dollars liquidity gets
disrupted,” said Bret Rosen, managing director of research at
Jamestown Properties LLC in  New York .  Fernandez’s foreign-currency curbs effectively put home
purchases out of reach for many Argentines because they would be
forced to buy dollars on the black market for 60 percent above
the official rate. Sales in  Buenos Aires  plunged 34 percent in
the first five months, the biggest decline since the 2001
financial crisis that culminated in the government’s $95 billion
bond default, according to the Buenos Aires Notary College.  Tax Forgiveness  Now Fernandez is trying to revive the market by offering to
forgive taxes owed on undeclared dollars if they’re invested in
property. Argentines can exchange funds held abroad for central-bank issued certificates that can be used in real estate
transactions and redeemed for dollars by the seller of a
property.  The plan has only attracted $8.5 million since it began on
July 1 because investors are wary the dollar-starved government
will try to keep the greenbacks, according to Florencia
Cecchini, real estate agent at Matty Pell & Asociados in Buenos
Aires.  “My clients get an ulcer every time I bring up the
subject,” she said. “They don’t want to hear of it because
they don’t trust they’ll be able to get actual dollars.”  The Argentine government froze bank accounts and turned
dollar savings into pesos at 30 percent of the value after the
default.  Creditor Dispute  The country has been locked out of international credit
markets since then, while decade-long cases in U.S. courts with
holdout creditors from the country’s 2005 and 2010 debt
restructurings demanding to be paid in full are contributing to
making Argentine securities the riskiest in the world.  Reliant on local financing, the government has depleted
international reserves and  printed money  at a rate of about 30
percent a year, fueling the fastest inflation in the Western
Hemisphere. Price increases, tightening currency controls and
unpredictable legislation -- including the nationalization of
oil company YPF SA in April 2012 -- caused economic growth to
fall to 2 percent last year, the slowest since 2009, as
investment and production slumped.  Real estate is often paid for upfront as the double-digit
inflation rate undermines banks’ ability to offer long-term
loans. A five-year mortgage has average borrowing costs of 18
percent, according to the central bank, compared with the 24
percent inflation rate estimated by private economists. Official
data, which have been challenged by the  International Monetary
Fund , says  consumer prices  are rising at half the rate.  Sales Tumble  Only 14.9 percent of all home purchases in the province of
Buenos Aires used mortgages last year, down from 15.3 percent in
2011, according to Buenos Aires real estate research company
Reporte Inmobiliario. The share hasn’t surpassed 21 percent in
the past 10 years.  Property sales in Buenos Aires tumbled 27 percent last year
from 2011, the biggest drop in Reporte Inmobiliario data that
goes back to 1998, and the only the fourth annual decline after
2001, 2004 and 2009.  “The market was almost paralyzed with the currency
controls because the great majority isn’t willing to accept
pesos for their property,” German Gomez Picasso, a director at
Reporte Inmobiliario, said in a telephone interview from Buenos
Aires. “They would rather just hold on to their property
instead.”  Some real estate companies are starting to price their
projects in the local currency. Developer Alan Faena accepted
pesos to finish selling about 25 percent of his apartment
building in the Buenos Aires neighborhood of Puerto Madero,
which he helped build into the most expensive in  Argentina ’s
capital from old abandoned factories by the riverside in the
1990s.  Currency Controls  Currency controls make investing in Argentina
“difficult,” he said, “You do whatever you can to adapt.”  Faena, developer of the Faena Hotel and Faena Aleph
Residences, has no plans to invest more in Argentina.  Instead he is completing six projects in Miami -- a
residential building, a hotel, an arts center, a shopping
gallery a park and a marina -- with a $600 million investment
from his partner, Ukrainian-born American billionaire Len Blavatnik. He said he’s sold 50 percent of his condominium
building set to be completed in September.  Argentines seeking to escape currency controls, sluggish
economic growth and rising inflation surpassed Brazilians last
year and became the biggest Latin American buyers of property in
the U.S. by spending $2 billion, according to a June 24  report 
by the National Association of Realtors.  Chilean Market  In Chile,  home prices  soared as much as 20 percent in
December and were at record highs in April, according to the
Chilean Construction Chamber. Colombia’s home prices grew an
annual 5.1 percent in real terms in the third quarter, prompting
 Yale University ’s  Robert Shiller  to say the boom resembles the
emerging bubble in U.S. real estate a decade ago.  The government’s plan to replace dollars with central bank-backed certificates may help boost the industry, according to
Juan Martin Olivera, a real estate broker and public notary at
Escribania Olivera.  “We’re all waiting to see what happens with that first
person who goes to the bank,” Olivera said in a telephone
interview from Buenos Aires. “If all goes well, then it should
bring some relief to the market.”  Sales in Buenos Aires rose an average 5.6 percent in the 10
years through 2011 as Argentines sought to store the value of
their savings in real estate. The peso weakened every year since
2003 and is forecast to slide 14 percent against the dollar this
year, the most in  emerging markets , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Fernandez’s currency controls and the tax amnesty plan are
set to fail as they offer temporary relief instead of focusing
on slowing inflation and instilling confidence in the
government’s policies, said Juan Pablo Fuentes, a Moody’s
Investors Service economist in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania .  “They won’t be successful in attracting capital this
way,” he said in a telephone interview. “Nobody will trust a
government that repeatedly violates laws and doesn’t value
contracts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Camila Russo in Buenos Aires at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  