-- Largest U.S. Sex-Trafficking Crackdown Rescues 105 Children
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-07-29T17:55:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/largest-sex-trafficking-crackdown-in-u-s-rescues-105-children.html
Law enforcement authorities rescued
105 children and arrested 150 pimps and other people in the
largest child sex-trafficking crackdown in U.S. history, the FBI
said.  Authorities used social media websites and classified
advertisements as they set up the sweep, according to  Ron Hosko ,
an assistant director for the  Federal Bureau of Investigation .
The three-day operation covered 76 cities and included 230
federal, state and local law enforcement groups, he said at a
news conference today in  Washington .  “Sex trafficking among children remains one of the most
prevalent, violent and unconscionable crimes in this country,”
said Hosko, the assistant director of the FBI’s criminal
investigative division. “Those who exploit children should know
that we, this team, will continue to seek them out and to bring
them to justice.”  Previous operations have targeted major sporting events,
such as the  National Football League ’s Super Bowl and the NCAA’s
Final Four basketball tournament. Multiple children have been
recovered from those events in the past, Hosko said.  “We see a gathering of people with excess money and
interested in the festivities and frolic that go around high-profile sporting events, and this seems to be a part of that,”
Hosko said.  Seventh Operation  The  operation  was the seventh of its kind as federal and
state law enforcement authorities have increased their focus on
child sex trafficking in recent years, and it included seizures
of drugs, money, cars and guns worth about $165,000. The
youngest child recovered was 13 years old, Hosko said.  The July 26-28 operation, known as “Cross Country,” was
undertaken as part of the FBI’s “Innocence Lost” initiative.
Since 2003, that effort has resulted in the recovery of more
than 2,700 children, the FBI said.  Drew Oosterbaan, the chief of the  Justice Department ’s
child exploitation and obscenity section, said a range of state
and federal statutes were being used to prosecute the
individuals arrested.  Over the course of the initiative, authorities have
obtained more than 1,350 convictions, the FBI said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  