-- Mario Andretti Rips IndyCar Track With Thrilled Rider: Me
-- B y   J a m e s   M .   C l a s h
-- 2013-07-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/mario-andretti-rips-indycar-track-with-thrilled-rider-me.html
There is a popular TV commercial
airing where Mario Andretti races down the track in his two-seat
Indy car with a guest in the back.  In one frame Andretti, in slow motion, scans flowers in the
infield and makes eye contact with a beautiful woman in the
grandstands as soothing opera music plays in the background.  In the next frame the car, in real time, shrieks down the
front straight with the passenger screaming, scared out of his
mind. The ad, appropriately enough, is called “Perspectives.”  When I first saw it, I chuckled. I also knew I wanted to
try the ride-along. But to be the lucky passenger, one normally
must enter  Honda’s (7267)  “Fastest Seat in Sports” sweepstakes with
thousands of other contestants. Only one person is chosen for
each of IZOD IndyCar’s 18 annual races, so the chances of
winning are what, less than zero?  Earlier this summer, Andretti had the two-seater at Pocono
Raceway, a large tri-oval in rural  Pennsylvania  regularly
visited by NASCAR drivers. The NASCAR lap record there is
179.958 mph, set by Joey Logano in 2012, just after the track
was repaved. In other words, Pocono is a fast place.  This year marked IndyCar’s return after a quarter of a
century. As Indy cars are faster than stock cars, Marco
Andretti, Mario’s grandson, promptly blistered a record top lap
of 221.273 mph, making NASCAR’s speeds seem like child’s play.  Triple Crown  Pocono has its own special meaning for me. In 1978, I
attended my first Indy race there and watched from the
grandstands as Al Unser, Sr. won what was to be the second leg
of his historic Triple Crown of Auto Racing: Indianapolis,
Pocono and  California .  Now, 35 years later, I was at Pocono as an accredited
journalist. Early on Sunday morning, July 7, I heard -- then saw
-- the two-seater screaming around the track. I inquired at the
media center and was told that, indeed, it was Mario taking a
few VIPs out for “hot laps.”  Hot is an understatement. Andretti was getting around the
2.5-mile course, known as the “tricky triangle” because of its
three unique turns, in less than a minute, while the high-pitched whine of the car echoed eerily off the grandstands
starting to fill with spectators. IndyCar public relations
executives told me they would see what they could do about
getting me a ride, but made no promises.  Formula One  Andretti, of course, has a CV that reads like a “who’s
who” in auto racing. He has won big events across all major
venues including Formula One (1978). He has also won at Pocono
in 1986, so he knows his way around the track.  Before I knew it, I was being hustled to the end of pit
lane and stuffed into a tight driving suit with a crash helmet.
What was I thinking while waiting my turn?  On one hand, I was about to experience the thrill of what
the world’s best drivers endure in terms of G forces, speed and
acceleration. On the other, I would have absolutely no control
over the car. Sure I would be in the hands of a legend, but what
would happen if a tire blew or the engine suddenly seized and we
spun into the concrete retaining wall?  I stepped forward when my number was called, posed for a
few photos with Mario and then was belted into the car.  G-Force  It didn’t take long to figure out why that TV-ad passenger
was screaming. Right off, Andretti accelerated at a breakneck
pace into turn one banked at 14 degrees. By the time we were in
the short chute between turns one and two, the car was above 120
mph. As our speed increased through turn two (eight degrees), I
really began to feel the G’s as my torso crushed against the
right side of the car.  Down the back straight we accelerated to 160 mph, and I
braced for turn three (six degrees). My teeth rattled and my
head felt like it was about to fly off in the open-cockpit car.
After turn three came the real terror, as we flashed down the
3,740-foot front straight in excess of 180 mph.  When I tried to raise my head for a better view of the
grandstands, the wind got underneath my helmet and snapped it
back. I had to use my hand to pull the helmet back down!  After another thrilling lap, we pulled into pit lane. I was
shaking and excited. The entire ride, a full five miles, had
taken less than two minutes!  Roger Penske  Later that day, I met team owner Roger Penske, four-time
Indy 500 champ Rick Mears and IndyCar points leader (and
“Dancing with the Stars” winner) Helio Castroneves. I even
watched  New Zealand ’s Scott Dixon move from his starting
position of 17th to take the checkered flag.  I will never forget those laps with Andretti. Afterward,
the 73-year-old told me we had run at 185 mph -- the gent has
still got it.  Hey, that’s faster than the NASCAR boys, and that’s good
enough for me!  (James M. Clash is the author of “The Right Stuff:
Interviews with Icons of the 1960s” (AskMen, 2012). He writes
on adventure for Muse, the arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg
News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Elin McCoy on  wine  and Jeremy
Gerard on  theater .  To contact the writer of this column:
James M. Clash at  Jamesmclash@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 