-- Hartford Posts Loss on Berkshire Deal, Asbestos Review
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-07-29T20:58:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/hartford-posts-loss-on-berkshire-deal-asbestos-review.html
Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc. (HIG) , the insurer exiting life operations to focus on property-casualty coverage, posted a third straight loss on asbestos
liabilities and costs tied to variable annuities.  The second-quarter net loss widened to $190 million, or 42
cents a share, from $101 million, or 26 cents, a year earlier
when the company incurred costs retiring investments made by
 Allianz SE , Hartford said today in a statement. Operating
earnings, which exclude some investment results, were 66 cents a
share, missing the 71-cent  average estimate  of 17 analysts
polled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Liam McGee , 58, divested life-insurance and retirement-plan units, leaving operations that
insure cars, homes and businesses. He struck a deal in June to
sell a U.K. annuity business to  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , part of a strategy to limit risks from retirement
products. Hartford, based in the Connecticut city of the same
name, reviews asbestos-linked liabilities every year in the
second quarter.  “There has to be more focus on the P&C operations,”
Vincent DeAugustino, an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, said
in an interview before results were announced. “It comes down
to how hard are they being on rate and what does that imply for
retention and new business growth.”  Book value, a measure of assets minus liabilities, fell to
$38.59 per share as of June 30, from $42.43 three months
earlier, as rising interest rates pressured the value of
Hartford’s bond portfolio.  Variable Annuities  Hartford recorded a $126 million after-tax loss on the sale
of the U.K. unit. Buffett’s company agreed to pay $285 million
for the business, adding about $1.75 billion in assets under
management. Hartford recorded $421 million of realized capital
losses, mostly tied to hedges on risks from variable annuities
sold outside the U.S.  Losses related to the review of asbestos and environmental
reserves were $91 million, compared with $33 million a year ago.  The insurer spent $1.05 on claims an expenses for every
premium dollar at the property-casualty unit. That’s an
improvement from $1.08 a year earlier. Policy sales increased
1.2 percent to $2.5 billion.  Hartford has  rallied  37 percent this year through the close
of regular trading today, beating the 35 percent advance of the
24-company KBW Insurance Index. The shares gained 7 cents to
$30.85 in extended trading at 4:49 p.m.  McGee increased the share-repurchase authorization last
month by $750 million to $1.25 billion and lifted the  dividend 
50 percent. Results were released after the close of regular
trading.  McGee agreed last year to divest a life insurer, a broker-dealer, a retirement-plans unit and an annuities business. The
sales, which Hartford has said freed up more than $2 billion in
capital, came after billionaire hedge-fund manager  John Paulson 
pressed McGee to split the company in two, an approach the CEO
resisted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  