-- U.S. Stocks Drop as Natural Gas Plunges While Yen Gains
-- B y   A l e x   B a r i n k a   a n d   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d
-- 2013-07-29T21:09:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/asian-stocks-slip-before-kuroda-speech-as-dollar-drops-with-gas.html
U.S. equities fell, halting a two-day gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as energy shares
led losses amid a plunge in natural gas and a report showed a
drop in pending home sales. Treasuries retreated before the
 Federal Reserve  meets to discuss tapering its bond purchases.  The  S&P 500  lost 0.4 percent to 1,685.33 at 4 p.m. in  New
York  to pare its July rally to less than 5 percent, poised for
its sixth monthly gain of the year. Ten-year Treasury yields
increased four basis points to 2.60 percent. Natural gas
declined to the lowest in 21 weeks on forecasts for mild weather
in the eastern U.S. The yen appreciated against all 16 major
peers while the Shanghai Composite Index dropped 1.7 percent
after Chinese industrial companies reported slower profit
growth. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slid 0.8 percent.  An index of pending U.S. home sales dropped 0.4 percent
after climbing a month earlier to the highest level since 2006,
the National Association of Realtors said. Net income at Chinese
industrial companies rose 6.3 percent in June from a year
earlier, data showed on July 27, down from 15.5 percent in May.
The  Federal Open Market Committee , which has said it may start
paring stimulus should the economy meet the central bank’s
forecasts, convenes July 30-31.  “Some of the economic data appears softer than we
anticipated,” Eric Teal, who helps oversee $5 billion as chief
investment officer at First Citizens BancShares Inc., said in a
telephone interview from Raleigh. “Some pause might be in order
over the next few months after the strong gains the first half
of the year.”  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or
VIX, climbed 5.3 percent to 13.39 today, after adding 1.4
percent last week. The equity volatility gauge reached its
highest level this year in June and has since fallen 35 percent.  U.S. Movers  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  retreated after climbing for two straight days.
The index is down 0.6 percent from its last record closing level
on July 22. Energy shares slumped 0.8 percent as a group and
financial companies lost 0.8 percent to lead declines among the
10 main industry groups in the S&P 500, with telephone stocks
posting the largest gains. Bank of America Corp., Hewlett-Packard Co. and Chevron Corp. lost at least 1 percent for the
biggest declines in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  Perrigo Co. dropped 6.8 percent after saying it will buy
Irish drugmaker Elan Corp. for $8.6 billion. Omnicom Group Inc.
slipped 0.6 percent after saying it will merge with  France ’s
Publicis Groupe SA to create the world’s largest advertising
company.  Earnings Season  Earnings beat estimates at about  73 percent  of the 269
companies in the S&P 500 that have released results so far in
the reporting season, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Profits have increased 5.8 percent, compared with a projection
for 3.3 percent growth in a Bloomberg compilation of analysts’
estimates.  U.S. financial companies, fueled by the fastest earnings
growth in the S&P 500, are poised to reclaim their position as
the market’s biggest industry for the first time since the
credit crisis.  Banks, brokers and insurance companies  make up  16.8 percent
of the S&P 500, almost double the level from 2009 and closing in
on technology companies at 17.6 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Bank of America Corp. and Morgan Stanley
are helping lead gains in the index this month after profits
topped estimates.  Intel Corp . and Microsoft Corp. are among the
worst after earnings trailed forecasts.  Fed Meeting  Thirty-year U.S. Treasury bonds also declined, sending
their yield up five basis points to 3.68 percent.  The Fed has said economic data will determine the timing
and pace of any reduction in its asset purchases. The central
bank will probably maintain its benchmark  interest rate  at 0.25
percent after concluding its two-day policy-setting meeting on
July 31, economists predicted. The Fed will begin to reduce its
bond-purchase program in September, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  U.S. gross domestic product probably rose 1 percent on an
annualized basis in the second quarter, after gaining 1.8
percent in the previous period, data is forecast to show July
31, according to the median of economists’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Payrolls increased by 185,000 after a 195,000 gain in
June, and the jobless rate fell to 7.5 percent from 7.6 percent,
according to the median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg
survey before Labor Department data on Aug. 2.  “It’s a big week with earnings reports, central bank
meetings, and of course U.S. payrolls,” Nader Naeimi, the
Sydney-based head of dynamic  asset allocation  at AMP Capital
Investors Ltd., which manages more than $130 billion, said by
phone. “Where markets go from here depends a lot on the data
and the Fed.”  European Markets  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index rose 0.1 percent after a two-day
decline, with trading volume 25 percent less than the 30-day
average.  Danone (BN)  advanced 3.2 percent as the owner of Evian
bottled water and Activia yogurt reported second-quarter sales
growth that beat estimates. Elan surged 3.7 percent in Dublin
after the Irish drugmaker agreed to Perrigo’s $8.6 billion
offer.  In European bond markets,  Italian declined for a fifth
day, pushing the 10-year  yield  five basis points higher to 4.46
percent. Yields on Spanish debt of similar maturity increased
six basis points to 4.68 percent.  Currencies, Commodities  The yen appreciated 0.5 percent to 129.83 per euro, while
Europe’s currency slipped 0.1 percent to $1.3265 as the dollar
gained against 12 of 16 major peers. The  New Zealand  and
Australian dollars and Mexican peso declined more than 1 percent
versus the yen, the most among 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  U.S. natural gas slid as much as 4 percent to $3.413 per
million British thermal units, the lowest since March 4. MDA
Weather Services said temperatures would be mostly cooler than
normal in the eastern two-thirds of the U.S. through Aug. 12.
The high in New York on Aug. 6 may be 73 degrees Fahrenheit (23
Celsius), 11 below average, according to AccuWeather Inc. The
forecasts spurred bets of reduced demand for natural gas from
power producers.  Nickel dropped 1.1 percent and zinc declined 0.5 percent
while gains in sugar, gold and silver left the S&P GSCI Index of
commodities little changed. Oil was little changed, settling 15
cents lower at $104.55 a barrel in New York.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index slumped for a fourth day
and the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies
listed in  Hong Kong  slid as banks declined after the State
Council ordered the National Audit Office to conduct a review of
local government debt. Benchmark stock gauges in Indonesia and
 Thailand  sank at least 1.5 percent while the Malaysian ringgit
and the Indian rupee slid about 0.6 percent versus the dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Barinka in New York at 
 abarinka2@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  