-- Auditor Urges Safeguards as USDA Pays 6,336 Dead People
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-07-29T21:14:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/auditor-urges-safeguards-as-usda-pays-6-336-dead-people.html
The  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
may have improperly paid as much as $36 million in aid to 6,336
dead people, according to government auditors who recommended
stronger safeguards.  Random sampling of USDA’s program rolls with the  Social
Security  Administration’s master list of dead individuals found
that 6,336 people got conservation aid, crop-insurance subsidies
or disaster assistance more than one year after they had died
from 2008 through 2012, the  Government Accounting Office said 
today in a report.  Payments to the dead “may call into question whether these
farm safety net programs are benefiting the agricultural sector
as intended,” according to the study of three USDA programs
that paid beneficiaries a total of $18.7 billion in 2012.
“Given their cost and continuing nationwide budget pressures,
these programs have come under increasing scrutiny.”  The government auditor recommended the USDA strengthen
verification procedures and step-up data mining to guard against
potential fraud and improper spending. The USDA programs
subsidize income, protect against weather hazards and improve
the environment, benefiting over 1 million participants,
according to the GAO.  The study, which looked at three department offices, found
payments to 4,537 dead recipients by the Natural Resources
Conservation Service and the Risk Management Agency that
administers crop insurance. The agencies lack procedures to make
sure any of the payments were proper, according to the GAO.  Improper Payments  At the  Farm Service Agency , the report found that more than
28,000 individuals had received payments after their dates of
death in 2011 and 2012, with 1,799 made improperly. The agency
has adopted procedures to check Social Security death records
quarterly to determine when payments are proper, according to
the report.  The USDA’s director of operations review and analysis,
Philip Sharp, in a June 4 letter responding to the GAO said the
USDA agrees in general with the findings and has begun
tightening procedures, including using Social Security’s master
death file to cross-check crop-insurance recipients.  Crop insurance subsidies reached a record after last year’s
Corn Belt drought, the worst in the U.S. since the 1930s.
Government aid accounts for about 62 percent of the premiums
farmers pay to companies including  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Ace
Ltd. (ACE) , and cover much of those companies’ operating costs, and
share in underwriting gains or losses by insurers.  Industry payouts for last year’s crops are  $17.4 billion  so
far, according to the department.  -- Editors: Steve Geimann, Jon Morgan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at   jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  