-- Kiwi Declines as Key Says Currency ‘Overvalued’; Aussie Drops
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-07-29T07:15:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/aussie-dollar-holds-2-week-advance-before-federal-reserve-meets.html
The  New Zealand dollar  declined
after Prime Minister John Key said it’s still “overvalued” and
the government would welcome a drop in the currency.  The kiwi weakened versus most of its 16 major counterparts,
paring a monthly gain that’s the biggest among its peers, after
Key’s comments. The Australian dollar fell, snapping a two-week
advance, as Asian stocks extended losses and damped demand for
higher-yielding assets.  “When you have comments like that coming from the prime
minister, you can expect some kind of reaction in the currency
markets,” said Khoon Goh, a senior strategist at  Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in Singapore. “We won’t be
surprised if this pullback proves temporary, as we’ve seen in
many cases in the past.”  New Zealand ’s currency lost 0.2 percent to 80.71 U.S. cents
as of 5:13 p.m. in Sydney, paring its gain this month to 4.3
percent. The Australian dollar dropped 0.1 percent to 92.46 U.S.
cents after climbing 2.3 percent in the two weeks through July
26. It has advanced 1.2 percent since June 30.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares fell 1.6 percent.  “We are likely to see a depreciation of the New Zealand
dollar against the  U.S. dollar , and that’s welcomed because the
government’s view is that foreign-exchange rate is still
overvalued,” Key said today in Seoul.  Australia’s  10-year government bond yield  fell four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.74 percent. New Zealand’s
two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to receive floating
rates that is sensitive to interest-rate expectations, dropped
two basis points to 3.34 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in  Singapore  at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  