-- Australia’s Dangerous New Refugee Policy
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-07-29T22:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/australia-s-dangerous-new-refugee-policy.html
Papua New Guinea  is a struggling
nation that ranks near the bottom of most indexes of human and
economic development. It is also, as of this month, the new home
of anyone who tries to reach  Australia  by boat to claim asylum.  That makes Australia the latest country to tighten the
rules for those fleeing persecution. Beyond questions over
whether the move will work and whether it’s legal, Australia’s
decision raises a broader concern: Is the international
commitment to refugee rights, which underlies the 1951 refugee
treaty, starting to weaken?  Australian Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  announced the change
July 19, stressing that even those whose applications were
approved would have “no chance” of settling in Australia.
“This is a very hardline decision,”  he said , but one that
balances the country’s security with its obligations under the
 1951 refugee convention .  That’s far from clear. Rudd said the change, under which
Australia will pay Papua New Guinea an undisclosed sum, was
intended to “combat the scourge of people smuggling.” But his
real aim seems to be fending off his conservative challenger in
this year’s election,  Tony Abbott , who has campaigned on the
slogan “Stop the Boats” and promises to make the military
responsible for stopping refugee seekers if elected.  The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees said in
May that transferring asylum seekers is only appropriate if the
receiving state can provide a fair and efficient claims process
and access to health, education and basic services that meet
international standards. If not, the transferring country is in
violation of its obligations.  Papua New Guinea, where  life expectancy  is 63 years and the
average adult has fewer than four years of education,  ranks
156th  (out of 186) on the UN Human Development Index. Whether
the country can properly care for asylum seekers is at best an
open question.  Even if it can meet that test, Australia’s decision faces a
second challenge. The UN claims that the convention commits
states to sharing the responsibility of protecting asylum
seekers, rather than trying to shift that burden elsewhere. By
that benchmark, Australia looks to be violating the spirit of
the convention, if not the letter.  What’s the justification for Australia’s move? Despite
Rudd’s tough talk, the country is not being swamped by ocean-going refugees. In 2011, it received just 3 percent of global
asylum seekers. Last year, 7,379 people arriving by boat were
processed as refugees, an increase of 43 percent over the
previous year. But the 4,766 maritime asylum applications
approved still represent just 0.02 percent of the country’s
population, or about one for every 5,000 Australians.  By contrast, there will soon be one Syrian in  Jordan  for
every six Jordanians, the result of  Syria ’s drawn-out civil war.
Jordan, the 115th-richest nation in the world, can’t afford to
pay its neighbors to take refugees off its hands. Australia, the
10th-richest nation, can. For both countries, however, there
remains a moral obligation to provide a refuge for those fleeing
persecution. Is it acceptable for a country to essentially buy
its way out of it?  That’s the real risk of Australia’s new policy: Other
countries might follow suit, thus weakening the norms of
behavior that underlie the 1951 convention. In ways small and
large, this process has already started. Last year,  Canada 
overhauled its asylum system to restrict the ability of
claimants from some countries to appeal the denial of their
applications. A more worrisome case is  Israel , which said last
month that it would send Eritrean asylum-seekers to an
unidentified third country.  The reluctance of the UNHCR to condemn Australia’s policy
increases the risk that more countries will seek to follow its
example. The commissioner’s office has stopped short of charging
that Australia is violating the convention, saying only that it
is “troubled” by the lack of adequate protection standards in
Papua New Guinea, that the legal agreement with Australia has
“significant shortcomings” and that integrating refugees there
raises “formidable challenges.”  In diplomatic circles, that may qualify as harsh language.
We can do better: What Australia is doing invites the unraveling
of a treaty that has served the world well for 60 years. It may
be that the treaty needs an update. Any changes, however, should
arise from a proper debate among nations -- not as a result of
politicians playing for votes by scapegoating asylum-seekers.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 