-- Bank of Italy Extends Loan Portfolio Review on Eight of 20 Banks
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-07-29T20:17:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/bank-of-italy-extends-loan-portfolio-review-on-eight-of-20-banks.html
Italy ’s central bank extended asset
quality inspections started last year on eight of 20 banks to
examine their entire portfolio after lenders increased
provisions for bad loans.  “The  Bank of Italy  will closely follow the implementation
of additional corrective measures that the banking groups
inspected were invited to adopt,” the bank said in an e-mailed
statement today. “For eight of the 20 groups examined the
checks were extended to the entire loan portfolio, in some cases
turning the inspection into a full-scope examination of the
entire operational activity of the group.” The central bank
didn’t identify the lenders.  The Bank of Italy is urging banks to boost capital by
selling non-strategic assets and further curbing operating
costs, dividends and executives’ and directors compensation.
In the fourth quarter the regulator required banks to set aside
additional provisions after coverage ratios declined compared to
recent years.  The banks had set aside provisions amounting to 43.5
percent of their non-performing loans at the end of December,
compared with 31 percent at the end of September, the BOI said.
Banks are struggling to improve  credit quality  as the longest
recession in more than 20 years makes it harder for firms and
households to repay their debts.  Asset Quality  Monitoring of banks’ asset quality and provisioning levels
is continuing and has been extended to other lenders through
ordinary inspections, the central bank said, adding that its
action will be co-ordinated with similar exercises that will be
carried out on an international level.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , which
represents global central banks and regulators and sets capital
standards worldwide, will require lenders to have common equity
equal to at least 7 percent of risk-weighted assets by 2019.
Under Basel proposals designed to reduce leverage, banks would
have to hold equity equal to 3 percent of total assets by 2018.  The  European Central Bank , which will take over supervision
of the banking system next year, will conduct an “asset quality
review” that may lead to further writedowns and capital
raising.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  