-- Banker Dalman Says Cardiff City Wants More Than Soccer Survival
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-07-29T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/banker-dalman-says-cardiff-city-wants-more-than-soccer-survival.html
Mehmet Dalman, an investment banker
and the newly appointed chairman of Cardiff City, said the
soccer team’s ambition stretches beyond merely surviving its
first season in the  Premier League .  The Bluebirds are rated third favorites by bookmakers
Ladbrokes, William Hill and Paddy Power to return to the second-tier Championship division at the end of the season.  “We’re not just interested in getting promoted and staying
there,” Dalman, a former board member of Commerzbank AG who was
named Cardiff chairman yesterday, said in a telephone interview
from  London . “But we know we’re not going to achieve anything
instantly. It’s a lot of hard work and we need to be focused.”  Cardiff, owned by Malaysian businessman Vincent Tan, won
the Championship to seal a place in England’s top flight for the
first time since 1962. Cardiff’s arrival coincides with the
start of the Premier League’s new television contract, the
richest in soccer, which guarantees the lowest-ranked of the
division’s 20 clubs about 60 million pounds ($92 million).  “I have no idea how much work is going to be involved,”
said Dalman, who succeeds Dato Tan Tien Ghee, who quit a
chairman on March 1. “I’m hoping that I will be more involved
in the macro picture rather than day-to-day issues.”  ‘Zilch’  Dalman in April stepped down as chairman of Eurasian
Natural Resources Corp., about 14 months after being appointed
to improve the metals producer’s corporate governance, after the
U.K.’s Serious Fraud Office began investigating it for alleged
fraud, bribery and corruption.  Dalman said his involvement with the company today is
“zilch.”  “I’m out and moved on,” he said. “I wish them all the
best.”  Cardiff isn’t his first foray into U.K. soccer. Dalman
helped the Glazer family buy into record 19-time English
champion Manchester United before its 2005 takeover.  “I kicked it off,” he said of that deal.  The relationship with Cardiff City’s owners dates back more
than a decade, when Dalman was based in Asia.  “I was quite well known in Asia,” he said. “My path with
 Malaysia  crossed quite a lot. Vincent Tan said ‘we could do with
someone like you on the board. Would you consider doing that?’
And I said sure.”  Dominating  Since Cardiff’s Malaysian takeover in May 2010, the club
has changed the color of its home jersey from blue to red, which
stoked fan criticism.  Under 41-year-old manager Malkay Mackay, who was hired in
June 2011, the team finished eight points ahead of second-placed
Hull City in the Championship last season.  “The whole philosophy was to have a young manager who’s
proved to be innovative and driven,” said Dalman. “He hasn’t
gone out and bought a lot of players who are over the hill.
We’ve invested in youth.”  While spending a lot of money doesn’t guarantee Premier
League survival, Cardiff will back Mackay in the transfer market,
Dalman said.  Danish striker Andreas Cornelius joined for about 8 million
pounds and Cardiff was ready to spend a similar amount on Tom
Ince before the  England  under-21 winger rejected the move.  “The club is fully behind the manager if he wants to make
any more signings, I’m sure he will have the support,” said
Dalman. “One of my key tasks is to support him as much as
possible in bringing in new talent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Rio de Janeiro at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  