-- Barclays Trader Rubin Defends Title as Wall Street’s Top Athlete
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-07-29T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/barclays-s-mark-rubin-defends-title-as-wall-street-s-top-athlete.html
Mark Rubin of  Barclays Plc (BARC)  won the
 RBC Decathlon  for the second straight year and said defending
his title as Wall Street’s best athlete was more challenging
than his breakthrough victory.  Evelyn Konrad of  Standard & Poor’s  will get to experience
that next year after winning the inaugural women’s title.  Rubin, a former Pennsylvania State University safety who
spent time with several National Football League teams, finished
atop a field of 170 financial industry workers in yesterday’s
10-event competition that raised more than $1.4 million for
 Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center  in New York.  “What makes the event so fun is the level of
competition,” said the 27-year-old Rubin, who’s in his third
year selling fixed-income futures at Barclays. “You really
can’t have an off event or an off race. You just have to try to
be consistent and attack every event. Last year was hard and
this year was even harder.”  Rubin finished with 7,630 points, almost 300 more than
runner-up Jay Li of Trafelet & Co.  Former Harvard University football captain Collin Zych, who
attended training camp with the  Dallas Cowboys  in 2011, finished
in third place, followed by fellow first-time Decathlon
participant Tom McCarthy of  Morgan Stanley. (MS)  McCarthy was captain
of the football team at  Yale University  in 2011 and spent time
in NFL training camps with the  Atlanta Falcons  and  Jacksonville
Jaguars .  Konrad, 46, was crowned Wall Street’s best woman athlete
just over a month after joining Standard & Poor’s as a
compliance officer. It also came two weeks after she competed in
the 100-, 200- and 400-meter sprints at the USA Masters  Outdoor
Track & Field Championships  in Olathe, Kansas.  Supportive Group  “It was tough competition, but it was good fun at the end
of the day,” Konrad said following yesterday’s event at
 Columbia University ’s Wien Stadium in Manhattan. “It was a
phenomenal group of women, really supportive and we really
brought out the best in each other. I’m glad they opened it up
to women. I think there are going to be a lot more women next
year and that bar is going to be that much higher.”  There were three running events in the RBC Decathlon, at
distances of 40 yards, 400 meters and 800 meters. Also in the
one-day competition were pull-ups, a football throw, an agility
drill, rowing, vertical jump, bench press and dips -- a triceps
exercise using one’s own weight.  Konrad has also participated in duathlons and triathlons,
and returned to competition as a sprinter several years ago
after giving up track following high school. She said having
experienced that level of competition benefitted her yesterday.  ‘Pain Thresholds’  “It definitely helped, just knowing there are certain pain
thresholds that you need to get through,” Konrad said. “It’s a
mental game of being able to say, ‘It’s going to be hard, just
keep going.’ Just like many things in life.”  In addition to the prizes awarded to the women’s winner and
the top three men’s finishers, there were titles awarded in the
executive division and several age groups.  Clinton Biondo of Fir Tree Partners, last year’s runner-up,
won the top executive title and was seventh overall in the final
standings. Li was the top finisher in the 30-39 age division,
Andrew Hogue of Goldman Sachs won the 40-49 group and Greg
Wilson of MBIA Inc. finished first among those over 50.  Health Warrior  Li and Lesley Kelly of Visium Funds will have their images
emblazoned on boxes of Health Warrior chia power bars after
earning the titles of strongest man and woman on  Wall Street . As
part of its partnership with the RBC Decathlon, the company is
incorporating the likeness of the two competitors with the best
overall scores in the strength events -- bench press, pull ups
and dips -- on the nutrition product’s packaging.  When it came to an overall combination of strength, speed
and agility, nobody could top Rubin, who signed with the  St.
Louis Rams  as an undrafted free agent in 2009 before getting
waived in Week 1 of the NFL season. After later tryouts with the
 Buffalo Bills  and  Minnesota Vikings  failed to yield an NFL
roster spot, he returned to business school at  Penn State  and
joined Barclays in 2010.  Rubin is now focused on his career on Wall Street and said
he’ll be back next year to try for a Decathlon three-peat.
Konrad also said she plans on returning.  “I do think I’ll be back,” she said. “My husband said,
‘You’re not a true champion unless you defend.”’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  