-- Barclays Drops as Bank Considers Sale of CoCos, Shares
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-07-29T16:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/barclays-slips-as-bank-seen-planning-fundraising-to-lift-capital.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-largest bank by assets, fell the most in almost six weeks in
 London  as the lender prepares to sell shares to bolster capital.  The bank plans to raise as much as 5 billion pounds ($7.7
billion) in a rights offering and shrink assets, the Financial
Times reported today. Barclays said in a statement it has held
talks with the Prudential Regulation Authority and will update
the market when it reports results tomorrow.  The lender, which holds the least  capital  as a proportion
of its assets of Britain’s four biggest banks, must either raise
7 billion pounds in equity or cut 240 billion pounds of assets
to meet a 3 percent leverage ratio set by the  Bank of England ’s
PRA. Barclays had resisted pressure form the regulator to sell
stock and favored issuing contingent convertible securities
instead. Analysts had estimated Barclays would only seek to
raise as much as 4 billion pounds in a right offering.  “I don’t understand what the urgency is for Barclays to do
a rights issue, sell CoCo’s and deleverage all at the same
time,” said Chirantan Barua, an analyst at Bernstein Research
in London who rates Barclays outperform. “Either the regulator
has turned really risk-averse on investment banks or there’s
something in tomorrow’s earnings that no one knows about yet.”  The shares  fell  3.5 percent to 309.05 pence in London
trading, for a market value of about 39.8 billion pounds. That’s
the biggest daily drop since June 20. The stock has gained about
18 percent this year.  Analyst Estimates  Barclays will say second-quarter pretax profit, excluding
swings in the value of its own debt, rose to 2.1 billion pounds
from 1.78 billion pounds in the year-earlier period on cost-cuts
and increased income from  investment banking , according to the
median estimate of nine  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg.  The lender set aside an additional 1 billion pounds in the
fourth quarter to compensate clients wrongly sold  interest-rate
swaps  and loan insurance as it announced a net loss of 1.04
billion pounds for 2012.  The bank’s plan will increase Barclays’s core Tier 1
capital ratio to 9.5 percent under the latest round of rules set
by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , the FT reported,
citing two unidentified people briefed on the plans. It’s
unclear if the bank will detail its plan to sell CoCos at the
same time, the newspaper reported. Giles Croot, a spokesman at
Barclays, declined to comment on the report.  The 3 percent target, which aims to limit the risks to the
taxpayer in a repeat of the financial crisis, would force banks
to hold 3 pounds of equity for every 100 pounds of assets.  Barclays was one of only two British lenders to miss the
regulator’s target in June, with only 2.5 percent.  Nationwide
Building Society , which at 2 percent also failed, was given
until the end of 2015 to make up the shortfall. The PRA told
Barclays it won’t get until the end of 2014 to meet the target,
a person with direct knowledge of the situation said today.  The bank had sought to persuade regulators that contingent
capital would be sufficient to make it safer, according to
another person with knowledge of the matter. Chief Executive
Officer  Antony Jenkins  told investors in February the bonds
would be part of the capital plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  