-- Barclays Said to Lose in Bid to Get More Time for Capital
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-07-29T14:02:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/barclays-said-to-lose-in-efforts-to-get-more-time-for-capital.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-largest bank by assets, won’t get the extra time it was seeking
to meet regulators’ demands to boost capital, according to a
person with direct knowledge of the situation.  The Prudential Regulation Authority has told the lender it
won’t get until the end of 2014 to increase capital to at least
3 percent of assets, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the move hasn’t been made public. The bank,
which holds the least capital as a proportion of its assets of
Britain’s four biggest banks, is considering  selling new stock 
or contingent convertible bonds to plug the gap, two people with
knowledge of the talks said.  To meet the ratio this year, the bank will have to raise
either 7 billion pounds ($11 billion) in equity or cut 240
billion pounds of assets, analysts estimate. The bank was one of
only two to miss the regulator’s target in June.  Nationwide
Building Society , the country’s biggest customer-owned lender,
was given until the end of 2015 to make up the shortfall.  “We don’t believe Barclays would contemplate raising as
much as 7 billion pounds in equity,” said  Ian Gordon , a banking
analyst at  Investec Plc (INVP)  in  London  who has a buy rating on the
shares. The lender may seek to raise as much as 4 billion pounds
by selling  new stock , and issue CoCos for the rest, he added.  Barclays said in a statement it has held talks with the PRA
and will update the market when it reports earnings tomorrow.  Potential Sale  Deutsche Bank AG and Credit Suisse Group AG, Barclays’s
corporate brokers, are already preparing for a potential share
sale, according to another person with knowledge of the talks.
The British lender may appoint two more banks to help manage the
sale later today, the person added. Barclays’s  investment-banking  unit is also working on the sale, the person said.  The shares fell as much as 4.1 percent and were down 2.8
percent at 311.05 pence as of 1:43 p.m. in London trading, for a
market value of about 40 billion pounds. That’s the biggest
intraday drop since July 3. The stock has gained about 19
percent this year.  Officials at Barclays, Deutsche Bank, Credit Suisse and the
PRA in London declined to comment.  Cut Lending?  Barclays CEO Antony Jenkins said last month that bringing
forward the deadline would force Barclays to cut lending. The
bank favors issuing cheaper CoCos instead of new stock to meet
the shortfall, people with knowledge of the matter said on July
27. Barclays is seeking to persuade regulators that CoCos would
be sufficient to make it safer, one of the people said. The bank
received shareholder approval at its annual meeting on April 25
to sell CoCos, which become shares if its core Tier 1 equity
ratio drops below a set level.  Barclays may opt for additional Tier 1 bonds, which are
likely to be priced more expensively than CoCos and convert to
shareholder funds to absorb losses rather than shares, said
 Christopher Wheeler , an analyst at Mediobanca SpA in London,
with an outperform rating. They could count as core Tier 1
capital in a similar way as shares do under Basel rules, he
said.  The Basel committee published a draft leverage ratio in
2010 as part of a general overhaul of its capital standards. The
group is working on the details of the measure, which is
scheduled to become binding from 2018. It would require banks to
hold Tier 1 capital equivalent to 3 percent of their assets,
with no scope for these assets to be risk weighted.  ‘Income Effects’  Jenkins, 52, said last month the Barclays can meet the
requirement quicker than planned “with minor income effects.”
The CEO announced in February that the bank will trim 1.7
billion pounds in annual expenses by 2015 and cut costs to about
55 percent of income from 71 percent in the first quarter.  Barclays will say second-quarter pretax profit, excluding
swings in the value of its own debt, rose to 2.1 billion pounds
from 1.78 billion pounds in the year-earlier period on cost-cuts
and increased income from investment banking, according to the
median estimate of nine  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg.  The lender set aside an additional 1 billion pounds in the
fourth quarter to compensate clients wrongly sold  interest-rate
swaps  and loan insurance as it announced a net loss of 1.04
billion pounds for 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  