-- Barrick Goes Worst to First on Bets Gold Bottomed: Canada Credit
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-07-29T17:02:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/barrick-goes-worst-to-first-on-bets-gold-bottomed-canada-credit.html
Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the largest
miner of the metal, has gone from the worst performer to the
best among Canadian firms with U.S. dollar bonds, on bets gold
prices have bottomed out after the biggest drop in 90 years.  Barrick bonds returned an average 3.2 percent this month,
the most among the 50 largest issuers tracked by the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate & Yankees Canadian Issuers
Index. Barrick’s 5.25 percent notes due in April 2042 rose 5.1
percent in July, the biggest advance in the index. Last month 
the company’s debt was the biggest loser among the largest 
issuers on the index with a 10 percent decline, the data show.  Gold miners, including  Goldcorp Inc. (G) , the world’s biggest
by market value, have announced at least $15 billion of
writedowns in the past two months after the precious metal’s
steepest quarterly drop in London trading in more than nine
decades. The metal’s price has risen from almost a three-year
low at the end of June, when Barrick announced it may write down
as much as $5.5 billion.  “I think there’s a good chance we bottomed out,” said
 Scott MacDonald , who helps manage $600 million as head of
research at MC Asset Management Holdings LLC in  Stamford 
Connecticut. “You had a bubble in prices. You burst the bubble.
Prices became more reasonable, and investors now feel the water
is OK to go back in.”  Yearly Drop  The rise in Barrick debt this month compares with a 0.6
percent return for the Yankee index and a gain of 0.3 percent
for Canadian corporate debt. Even with the July rally, Barrick
bonds have declined 14 percent this year, compared with a 3.2
percent decline in the Yankee index.  Elsewhere in credit markets, Canda’s 10-year benchmark
government bonds fell, with yields rising three basis points or
0.03 percentage point. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June
2023 lost 23 cents to C$91.53.  The extra yield investors demand to own the debt of
Canadian investment-grade corporations rather than the federal
government fell two basis points last week, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 122 basis points, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Canada Corporate Index. Yields rose to 3.14
percent, from 3.09 percent July 19.  Spreads on provincial bonds rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point last week to 73 basis points, according to Bank
of America’s Canadian Provincial & Municipal Index. Yields
increased to 2.95 percent, from 2.88 percent.  Corporate debt has gained 0.09 percent this year while
provincial securities have lost 2.4 percent. Federal-government
bonds have dropped 2.4 percent, Merrill Lynch data show.  Gold Rebounds  Gold futures in  New York  have risen 8.4 percent this month
to $1,333.40 an ounce, the first monthly rise since November.
The metal could rise to $1,600 an ounce by the end of the year,
Commerzbank AG,  Germany ’s second-biggest bank, said in a note
July 15. Gold will end the year at $1,314 per ounce, according
to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 27 economists.  “That’s led some people to believe that perhaps that
drop” to $1,250 an ounce in June was a floor, said Keith Hoppe,
who helps manage $82 billion as an analyst at Thrivent Financial
for Lutherans, by phone from  Minneapolis . “When the gold price
firmed up, people are looking at it thinking, ‘Well, a lot of
the time the markets overreact.’ And perhaps they sold off the
Barrick bonds too much and they decided to step back in and
buy.”  Barrick’s  credit rating  was cut to Baa2 with a negative
outlook by Moody’s Investors Service on April 24. Two days later
it was cut to BBB with a negative outlook by  Standard & Poor’s ,
which cited the company’s rising debt and delays at its Pascua-Lama project in Chile and  Argentina .  Asset Sales  The Toronto-based miner, whose shares have plunged almost
by half this year, has responded by cutting costs and selling
assets. The company announced C$455 million of asset sales in
the past month.  The cost to insure Barrick’s debt from default for five
years fell the most last week among 27 Canadian issuers with
U.S. dollar debt, dropping 13 basis points to 293 basis points,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  “Barrick made announcements that they’re going to protect
their balance sheet and their rating,” Hoppe said. “With some
ratings pressure they have some levers to pull and Barrick has
demonstrated that they’re going to do that.”  Project Writedown  The company is expected to report Aug. 1 that second-quarter profit excluding one-time items  fell  26 percent to 58
cents a share, according to the average of 19 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The company said July 1 it may take a writedown of as much
as $5.5 billion on its Pascua-Lama project. It also slowed
construction, bringing total spending on the project in 2013 and
2014 down $1.5 billion to $1.8 billion.  “Being more profitable is better than being bigger,”
Jamie Sokalsky, the company’s chief executive officer said May
22. “If we divested of some of those smaller, higher-cost
assets and came down to a suite of assets that are long-lived
and lower-cost and more valuable, I think that ultimately that
can be a better investment proposition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  