-- Bayern May Put $61Mln Bid in For Chelsea’s Luiz: Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-07-29T10:20:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/bayern-may-put-61mln-bid-in-for-chelsea-s-luiz-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Bayern Chasing Luiz  Bayern Munich  may offer as much as 40 million pounds ($61
million) for Chelsea’s  David Luiz , the  Sun  reported.  New Bayern coach Pep Guardiola was previously interested in
signing the Brazilian defender when he was in charge of
Barcelona.  Chelsea bought Luiz for 21 million pounds two years ago
from Benfica.  Silent Treatment?  Tottenham Chairman  Daniel Levy  is giving Gareth Bale “the
silent treatment” following a world-record offer from Real
Madrid for the Welshman, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Levy is refusing to talk to the winger after he said Bale
will not be sold “regardless of whatever Real may offer,” the
newspaper said.  The club has dismissed Real’s bid of 51 million pounds plus
Angel  Di Maria  and Fabio Coentrao, estimated at a total of 95
million pounds, the Mirror said.  The  Daily Mail  reported that Levy cut short his holiday to
fly to London and talk to Bale to resolve the situation.  Pastore for Spurs?  Should Bale be sold to Real Madrid, Spurs may spend some of
the money on Argentina’s Javier Pastore, the  Daily Star 
reported.  The midfielder moved to Paris Saint-Germain for 36 million
pounds in 2011.  Tottenham is also close to signing Valencia striker  Roberto
Soldado  for 26 million pounds, the newspaper said.  Malouda, Bosingwa  Former Chelsea players Florent Malouda and  Jose Bosingwa 
are poised to move to Turkish side Trabzonspor, the  Daily Mail 
reported.  Both men have undergone medicals at the club in recent
days, the newspaper said.  Winger Malouda, 33, was released by Chelsea at the end of
last season. Defender Bosingwa, 30, spent the last campaign at
Queens Park Rangers after joining from the Blues.  Liverpool Target  Liverpool is trying to sign Benfica defender Lorenzo
Melgarejo on a one-year loan deal with a view to a permanent
contract, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Paraguay international Melgarejo, 22, may be used as cover
for injury-prone left-back  Jose Enrique , the newspaper said.  Liverpool’s attempts to land French international Aly
Cissokho from Valencia weren’t successful because of the
player’s wage demands, the Mirror said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  