-- Saudi Spends $22 Billion on Riyadh Metro Line Construction
-- B y   D e e n a   K a m e l   Y o u s e f ,   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-07-29T13:06:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/bechtel-fcc-ansaldo-win-22-4-billion-riyadh-metro-contracts.html
Saudi Arabia  awarded more than $22
billion in contracts to develop a metro line in  Riyadh  as the
world’s biggest oil exporter joins Dubai and Qatar in expanding
transport networks.  The kingdom gave Bechtel Group Inc. a $9.4 billion
contract,  Fomento de Construcciones y Contratas  one valued at
$7.8 billion, and awarded  Ansaldo STS SpA (STS)  a $5.2 billion deal.
Shares of FCC jumped to the highest level in six months.  Six lines will serve the capital city’s center, government
facilities, universities, commercial areas, the airport and the
financial district, according to the project’s website.  Construction of the 175-kilometer (109-mile) network will
start in the first quarter, Prince Khalid bin Bandar, president
of the High Commission for the Development of Riyadh, said
yesterday. It will take about five years, according to Tarek al-Fares, vice president of the development authority.  Saudi Arabia’s budget for transportation and telecoms
expanded 84 percent this year to $17.3 billion, the fastest pace
since at least 2004, according to the  Finance Ministry .  “This is the biggest infrastructure project to be
undertaken in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and is a cornerstone
of the bold future we envision for our city,” said Ibrahim Bin
Muhammad Al Sultan, president of Arriyadh Development Authority,
the government body overseeing the project. The construction is
expected to be a “major driver of employment and economic
development.”  Longest Metro  The 85-station network will be the longest metro in the
world under construction and will create 15,000 jobs over five
years, according to an e-mailed statement from FCC, which led a
consortium that won a contract for three lines.  Persian Gulf nations are spending billions to build
airports, ports and rail networks. Qatar, the world’s largest
exporter of liquefied natural gas, awarded four contracts valued
at about 30 billion riyals ($8.2 billion) for the first phase of
the Doha Metro in June as it prepares to host the 2022 soccer
 World Cup . Dubai, the second-biggest sheikhdom in the  United
Arab Emirates , built the first metro network in the Gulf
Cooperation Council in 2009.  Riyadh’s population is projected to grow to 8.5 million
people in the next decade from six million currently, according
to the Saudi Press Agency. The biggest Arab economy is spending
more than $500 billion to upgrade infrastructure and create jobs
as it seeks to reduce reliance on hydrocarbons.  Approvals Bureaucracy  Projects in Saudi Arabia may suffer delays in contract
awards and bureaucracy in approvals, leading to cost overruns,
said Alia El Mehelmy, sector head of construction and
industrials at CI Capital Holding.  “Generally speaking, Saudi is among the slower governments
to award projects and it is renowned for award delays,” she
said. “The project looks huge, but the bidders have been
waiting for this award since before the financial crisis. The
gulf region is ‘‘full of opportunities’’ but contractors ‘‘need
to adjust for this risk’’ she said.  Gulf Cooperation Council member states are spending heavily
on infrastructure projects aimed at improving  living standards 
and smoothing the social discontent that swept the Arab world
since the popular uprisings of 2011. The Riyadh metro also marks
a shift in thinking about public transport as a means to save on
gasoline rather than a mode of transport traditionally used by
workers.  The Jeddah metro tender is also due for award this year.  FCC shares traded 4.9 percent higher at 10.79 euros at 2:30
p.m. in  Madrid . A closing price at that level would be the
highest since Jan. 25.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Deema Almashabi in Riyadh at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  