-- Berlusconi Faces Moment of Truth With Top Court’s Final Ruling
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-07-29T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/berlusconi-faces-moment-of-truth-with-top-court-s-final-ruling.html
Silvio Berlusconi’s appeals of a
tax-fraud conviction run out this week when a five-judge panel
of  Italy ’s top court determines whether his sentence sticks.  The verdict in  Rome , which may come as early as today,
could rattle Italy’s fragile governing coalition of lawmakers
loyal to 76-year-old Berlusconi and those closely allied with
Prime Minister Enrico Letta. Berlusconi, who says that judges
want to destroy him politically, faces a five-year ban from
public office if his October conviction is upheld. He’s unlikely
to get jail time.  “A definitive conviction over the near term would increase
the risk of government collapse,” Peter Ceretti, a researcher
with Eurasia Group in  New York , wrote in a July 17 analysis.
“Such an event would exacerbate tension from left and right to
unprecedented levels.”  Berlusconi has weathered more than a dozen criminal trials
since entering politics in 1994 and is now also appealing
convictions in separate cases on paying a minor for sex and
illegal use of wiretapping. In the case before the top court the
self-made billionaire was found to have evaded taxes in the
purchase of rights to American movies for his broadcaster,
 Mediaset SpA. (MS)  He has denied all charges against him.  Berlusconi probably wouldn’t be incarcerated for this case,
according to Andrea Castaldo, a criminal lawyer and professor at
the University of Salerno. The four-year jail term handed down
by the trial court may be reduced to one year due to a law
against prison overcrowding. If convicted he could face
alternatives such as community service or house arrest, as he
would also benefit from leniency traditionally accorded to
criminals over the age of 70.  Yields Rise  Italian 10-year yields have risen about 60 basis points, or
0.6 percent, since a 2 1/2-year low reached on May 2 after Letta
stitched together a three-party coalition. The 46-year-old prime
minister has said he is confident Berlusconi’s trials won’t
affect the government.  The hearing is scheduled to start no earlier than 10 a.m.
The verdict will come as soon as today and may be given tomorrow
or on Aug. 1, Repubblica newspaper reported yesterday.  Berlusconi, now a senator, wouldn’t automatically lose his
seat if the public-office ban went into effect. The upper house
would have to vote to end his mandate, a procedure that could
take months and would add to tensions in the three-month-old
coalition. Berlusconi has said his legal issues won’t interfere
with the government, while some of his allies have threatened to
take Letta down in case of a conviction.  Coalition Fraying  The parliamentary majority is showing signs of fraying as
Letta struggles to find a compromise between the tax cuts
demanded by the parties in his coalition and the budget rigor
required to service $2.7 trillion of debt. Letta’s  Democratic
Party , or PD, was thrown into partnership with the Berlusconi’s
People of Liberty party, known as PDL, after inconclusive
elections in February. Former Premier  Mario Monti  is the head of
the third-biggest party in Letta’s alliance.  The charges in the Mediaset case stem from before
Berlusconi entered politics. He said in a May 23 statement that
he never had offshore accounts and he didn’t know about alleged
bribes to a few “unfaithful” Mediaset managers, otherwise he
would have stopped them. He said his “absolute innocence” will
be proved.  Berlusconi’s first appeal failed on May 8 when a Milan
court upheld the original conviction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  