-- Bernanke Can Be Deposed in AIG Bailout Suit, Court Rules
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-07-29T19:18:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/bernanke-can-be-deposed-in-aig-bailout-suit-court-rules.html
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke will have to give testimony in a lawsuit against the
U.S. brought by Maurice “Hank” Greenberg over the government’s
bailout of  American International Group Inc. (AIG)   Greenberg’s Starr International Co. sued the U.S. for $25
billion in 2011, claiming the assumption of 80 percent of AIG’s
stock by the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  in September 2008
was an unconstitutional seizure of property that violated
shareholders’ rights to due process and equal protection of the
law. Switzerland-based Starr contended Bernanke’s role in the
transaction made his testimony critical.  “The court is persuaded that Mr. Bernanke is a key witness
in this case and that his testimony will be highly relevant to
the issues presented,” Judge Thomas Wheeler of the U.S. Court
of Federal Claims wrote in the ruling today. “Because of Mr.
Bernanke’s personal involvement in the decision-making process
to bail out AIG, it is improbable that the plaintiff would be
able to obtain the same testimony or evidence from other persons
or sources.”  Wheeler, who said he will attend the deposition to provide
judicial oversight, said obtaining testimony from high-level
U.S. officials has been a “relatively routine practice” in
claims court when the individual has personal knowledge of
relevant information.  Cheney Testimony  Then-serving officials who have testified in claims court
proceedings include Secretary of Defense  Dick Cheney ,  Colin Powell , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and William Casey, director of the Central Intelligence Agency, Wheeler said
in the ruling.  “We are pleased that the court has permitted us to take
Mr. Bernanke’s deposition,” Alanna Rutherford of Boies,
Schiller & Flexner, which represents Starr, said in an e-mailed
statement. “This case seeks compensation for the stock of AIG
shareholders that the U.S. government took in 2008 without
authorization and without compensation.”  Bernanke, 59, was served with a notice of deposition on
June 21 by Starr. The company proposed questioning him on Aug.
16. Wheeler said the date is acceptable to him while deferring
to Bernanke’s schedule in coordinating a date.  Joe Pavel, a spokesman for the Federal Reserve Board in
 Washington , declined to comment on the ruling. Allison Price, a
spokeswoman for the U.S. Justice Department, also declined to
comment.  The government argued that whatever Bernanke has to say is
available from other sources, including Board of Governors
meeting minutes and the depositions of lower-ranking officials,
according to a Justice Department filing on July 16.  Greenberg, 88, stepped down as AIG’s chairman and chief
executive officer in 2005 during an investigation linked to an
accounting scandal.  The case is Starr International Co. v. U.S., 11-cv-00779,
U.S. Court of Federal Claims (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 