-- Bharara Seeks Cohen Civil Case Stay Pending Criminal Outcome
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2013-07-29T15:43:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/bharara-seeks-cohen-civil-case-stay-pending-criminal-outcome-1-.html
Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara  asked an administrative judge to stay the Securities and
Exchange Commission’s action against billionaire Steven A. Cohen
until related criminal cases against his hedge fund and two
former employees are resolved.  In a document dated July 26, Bharara said the SEC
enforcement staff doesn’t object to postponing the
administrative proceeding, which it filed on July 19 alleging
that Cohen failed to supervise two portfolio managers who now
face criminal insider trading charges.  Bharara last week announced related criminal charges
against Cohen’s  Stamford , Connecticut-based hedge fund SAC
Capital Advisors LP, calling it “a veritable magnet for market
cheaters” and saying the fund was being held responsible for
insider trading by seven portfolio managers and analysts who
worked there. Cohen hasn’t personally been charged criminally
and has said that he will fight the SEC’s administrative action.  It is common to delay civil proceedings when related
criminal proceedings that involve overlapping witnesses and
documents are under way.  The SEC’s administrative proceeding and the parallel
criminal cases “will involve largely the same witnesses,
documents and other evidence,” Bharara said in the motion.
“The continuation and disposition of the administrative
proceeding as currently scheduled will substantially prejudice
the pending criminal prosecutions and hinder the criminal
enforcement of the securities laws at issue.”  SEC spokesman  John Nester  and Jonathan Gasthalter, a
spokesman for SAC at Sard Verbinnen & Co., declined to comment.  The SEC’s Chief administrative law judge Brenda P. Murray
had scheduled an initial hearing in Cohen’s matter for Aug. 26.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in  New York  at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
silla at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  