-- BlueMountain’s Selemir Departs to Focus on Website for Writing
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-07-29T15:56:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/bluemountain-s-selemir-departs-to-focus-on-website-for-writing.html
Dmitry Selemir, who managed
structured-credit investments at BlueMountain Capital Management
LP, has left the hedge-fund firm run by Andrew Feldstein to
concentrate full-time on a writing website he co-founded.  Scriggler.com , which went online July 16, seeks to
encourage “a cross-border discussion and exchange of views and
opinions and ideas, and that’s quite big,” Selemir, 34, said
last week in a telephone interview.  “There’s nowhere really you could go where you could have
a constructive discussion without any constraints,” he said,
citing the 140-character restriction on Twitter and limited
audience on Facebook Inc.’s website.  Selemir, who joined BlueMountain in 2007 and worked in
 London , left the $15.7 billion firm on June 26, according to
spokesman Doug Hesney. His co-founders are his sister Victoria
Ablesimova and Deutsche Bank AG trader Sebastien Cottrell.  Scriggler is “a big debate club online,” said Cottrell,
32, who met Selemir when they both worked for BlueMountain in
2008. Cottrell, who continues to trade dollar-denominated
structured credit including asset-backed collateralized debt
obligations at Deutsche Bank in  New York , described the website
as a literary version of audio-sharing site  SoundCloud Ltd. ,
which lets artists and music labels make songs available to
users.  Selemir, from Sarov,  Russia , the town formerly known as
Arzamas-16 that’s home to the Russian Federal Nuclear Center,
attended Moscow State University and moved to the U.K. to work
as a physicist in 2001 before joining  CQS  to trade structured
credit two years later, he said.  Cottrell joined Deutsche Bank in 2010 after a year at BNP
Paribas SA. Cottrell was born in  Ecuador , lived in  France  and
moved to the U.S. when he was 15, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story: Mary Childs in New York
at   mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Alan Goldstein
at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  