-- Boeing Urges More Jet Beacon Checks After 787 Faults Found
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r ,   M i k e   M i l l a r d   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2013-07-29T03:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/boeing-urges-beacon-inspections-on-some-planes-other-than-787s.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  has asked airlines to
inspect emergency beacons on a range of planes after  ANA
Holdings Inc. (9202)  and  United Airlines  found faults in devices on
787s linked to a fire in a parked Dreamliner.  The aircraft maker asked operators to inspect aircraft with
fixed emergency locater transmitters from  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON) ,  Randy Tinseth , a Boeing marketing vice
president,  said  on a blog yesterday. Planes to be checked
include Boeing 717, next-generation 737, 747-400, 767 and 777
aircraft.  ANA, the biggest operator of 787s, already started checks
on other planes with Honeywell beacons last week after
completing inspections on its fleet of Dreamliners, said Maho
Ito, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman at the carrier. Boeing’s
recommendation spreads the investigation beyond the 787, which
was prevented from flying for three months earlier this year
following two cases of  lithium-ion batteries  melting, in the
first global grounding of a model since 1979.  The inspections are to “gather data to support potential
rulemaking by regulators,” Tinseth wrote. The beacons are
separate from flight and voice data recorders, known as black
boxes, which have their own location transmitters.  Short-Circuit  Investigators are trying to determine whether two wires
smashed under a cover on an emergency locater transmitter, or
ELT, caused a short-circuit that triggered the blaze on an
Ethiopian Airlines Enterprise 787 at  London ’s Heathrow airport,
according to a person familiar with the probe.  Steve Brecken, a spokesman for Honeywell, didn’t
immediately return telephone and e-mail messages left seeking
comment.  Tokyo-based ANA has completed checks on eight of 38 planes
it is inspecting, Ito said.  Japan Airlines Co. (9201) , the second-largest operator of Dreamliners, doesn’t have Honeywell beacons
on models other than the 787, Kazunori Kidosaki, a spokesman at
the carrier, said by phone in  Tokyo  today.  Boeing is taking the action after the U.K. Air Accidents
Investigation Branch recommended airplanes with fixed Honeywell
beacons be inspected, Tinseth said. There have been about 6,000
of the  Morris Township , New Jersey-based Honeywell beacons
installed on aircraft, according to the AAIB.  Dented Wire  ANA last week found a dented wire in a fixed beacon and
another in a portable beacon and removed all beacons from eight
787s used on domestic routes. United also found a pinched wire
in a beacon, which it replaced and returned to the manufacturer
for evaluation, Christen David, a spokeswoman for the Chicago-based airline, said last week.  The fire in the Ethiopian Airlines’ transmitter, which runs
off a lithium battery, renewed concern that the 787 was at risk
from electrical faults after two meltdowns in a different type
of lithium battery in January. Those incidents, involving
batteries that are part of the plane’s power system, spurred the
three-month grounding of the global Dreamliner fleet to fix the
flaw.  Qatar Airways Ltd. said on Saturday that one of its 787
aircraft has been grounded since last Monday because of a
“minor” technical problem. A spokeswoman for the Doha-based
carrier, who asked not to be named as per company policy, said
the issue was not a fire and was discovered when the plane was
on the ground. She declined to give further details.  Transmitter Removal  Separately,  Norwegian Air Shuttle AS (NAS)  followed Boeing
instructions on transmitter removal after getting approval from
its civil aviation authority, the Oslo-based carrier said in an
e-mailed statement last week.  Boeing 787 operators must check the jets’ emergency locater
transmitters made by Honeywell, the European Aviation Safety
Agency said last week in an e-mailed statement.  Airlines must “either remove or inspect the Honeywell ELT,
and take corrective actions if necessary,” the region’s safety
regulator said on July 26, following its U.S. counterpart after
the July 12 fire in London.  The U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration  ordered on July 25
that the Dreamliners’ ELTs be inspected and said it may take
steps affecting thousands of identical beacons on other models.
Japan’s Civil Aviation Bureau also asked airlines to check the
beacons on 787s.  United, a unit of  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ,
completed inspections on the rest of its Dreamliners without
interrupting schedules, and is in compliance with the
airworthiness directive issued by the FAA, David said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Millard at 
 mmillard2@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  