-- BofA Sent Back to Trial Court Over Fontainebleau Loans
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2013-07-29T14:38:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/bofa-sent-back-to-trial-court-over-fontainebleau-loans.html
Bank of America Corp. , agent for a
loan to a failed casino development by Fontainebleau Las Vegas
LLC, was sent back to district court to resolve claims that it
acted negligently under the loan agreement.  Bank of America was responsible for paying lenders’ money
to Fontainebleau for a project at the north end of the Las Vegas
Strip with an initial budget of $2.9 billion. In its July 26
decision, the U.S. Court of Appeals in Atlanta examined whether
the bank was right to disburse some funds after the financial
crisis began in 2008.  The lenders said Bank of America’s payment to Fontainebleau
in March 2009, amid a credit crunch spurred by Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy, was “untimely,” as the borrower
had failed to disclose anticipated project costs and some
lenders had dropped out. They challenged a U.S. district judge’s
decision that the bank acted in keeping with its agreements.  While agreeing with the district court’s interpretation of
some of the bank’s obligations under the loan agreements, the
appeals panel reversed part of its decision, saying Bank of
America may have known the borrower hadn’t met necessary
conditions when it paid out the funds in 2009.  ‘Material Fact’  “There remain genuine issues of material fact about
whether Bank of America had such knowledge and whether its
actions amounted to gross negligence,” the appeals panel said.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, didn’t immediately respond to an
e-mail seeking comment on the ruling.  Fontainebleau, whose corporate parent owns a hotel on 22
acres of Miami Beach,  Florida , wanted the money to complete the
casino and hotel in Las Vegas. The company and affiliates filed
for bankruptcy in Miami in 2009, and billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  bought the unfinished Las Vegas project for about
$150 million in 2010.  The casino company originally sued the lenders for
$3 billion in 2009, saying they refused to provide $800 million
in funding for the development. The courts sided with lenders,
saying Fontainebleau hadn’t abided by conditions it undertook to
fulfill before the banks would increase their revolving loans.  The case is Avenue Clo Fund Ltd. v. Sumitomo Mitsui Banking
Corp., 12-11815, U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit
(Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in  New York  at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  