-- Broncos’ Koppen Follows Maclin as Latest NFL Season-Long Injury
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-07-29T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/broncos-koppen-follows-maclin-as-latest-nfl-season-long-injury.html
The  Denver Broncos  are looking for a
new center for quarterback  Peyton Manning  to take snaps from
after losing Dan Koppen to a season-ending torn knee ligament
less than a week after opening training camp.  Koppen, who had been re-signed by the Broncos last month
after an injury to J.D. Walton, was diagnosed with a torn
anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee after being carted
off the practice field. Koppen had started 12 games for the
Broncos in place of Walton last season.  Koppen’s injury came a day after the  Philadelphia Eagles 
lost wide receiver  Jeremy Maclin  to a torn right ACL and
Baltimore Ravens tight end Dennis Pitta was ruled out for the
season with a dislocated hip suffered in training camp.  “It’s a catch-22 any coach goes through this time of
year,” Broncos coach John Fox told reporters yesterday.
“You’re trying to get ready for the season and you need to get
in pads because you have to get in shape, but you also have to
make sure you have enough guys to go to battle with.”  Most National Football League teams had veterans report to
training camp on July 24 or 25 and this past weekend was the
first time this offseason many players began practicing, and
hitting, in protective pads and helmets.  Maclin, a first-round draft pick of the Eagles in 2010, had
a team-leading 69 catches last season for 857 yards and seven
touchdowns. He was entering the final year of his rookie
contract and was projected to have a major role in new coach
Chip Kelly’s fast-paced offense.  ‘Speed Bump’  “This is another speed bump, I’ll be OK,” said Maclin,
who suffered the same injury while playing at the  University of
Missouri . “I’ll put all my energy into rehabbing it. I’ve done
it once already.”  Pitta was also entering the final year of his contract in
Baltimore after catching 61 passes for 669 yards and seven
scores for the Super Bowl-champion Ravens last season. He added
14 catches for 163 yards and three touchdowns in the playoffs.  “It’s the type of thing that he’s not going to be able to
come back from this year,” Ravens coach  John Harbaugh  said of
Pitta’s injury. “There’s enough damage to preclude that.”  The Ravens have Ed Dickson as their backup tight end and
signed Visanthe Shiancoe yesterday.  The Broncos turned to  Manny Ramirez  to handle snaps after
Koppen’s injury yesterday, though all 24 of his regular-season
NFL starts have come at the guard position. Fox said the team
will look into other options as well.  “You understand that if you do this long enough, whether
you’re a player or a coach, injuries happen,” Fox said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  