-- Caesars’s Loss Narrows as Revenue Comes Up Short
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-07-30T14:54:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/caesars-s-quarterly-loss-narrows-on-cost-controls.html
Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR)  posted a
narrower loss in the second quarter, while revenue slipped 0.3
percent as the casino operator drew fewer gamblers.  Net loss shrank to $212.2 million from $241.7 million a
year earlier, when the Las Vegas-based company wrote down the
value of its land in Macau,  China . The largest casino owner in
the U.S. ended the June period with $23.7 billion in debt
outstanding.  Caesars Entertainment is seeing fewer visits to its casinos
and less willingness to gamble, particularly among younger
guests, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Gary Loveman said
on a conference call with analysts yesterday. The company is
spending $1 billion upgrading hotels and adding attractions such
as a giant Ferris wheel in  Las Vegas  to appeal to non-gamblers.  Sales fell to $2.16 billion, compared with the $2.19
billion average of analysts’ projections. The sales reflect
weakness in  consumer spending  on gambling that may continue,
said John Kempf, an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in New York.  “We’ve seen this from all the operators and July doesn’t
seem like it’s turning,” said Kempf, who has an underperform
rating, the equivalent of sell, on the stock.  Caesars Entertainment, which was acquired in a leveraged
buyout by  Apollo Global Management LLC (AP)  and TPG Capital LLP in
2008 and went public last year, said on July 10 that it plans to
offer about $1.18 billion in stock in a new unit for its
emerging online gambling business. The company is using the
stock sale to finance investments and shore up its balance sheet
as competition intensifies in casino properties.  Credit-Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps tied to the company’s debt, which
typically climb as investor confidence deteriorates, increased
0.5 percentage point to 53 percent upfront today, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw Hill Financial Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. That’s in addition to 5 percent a year,
meaning it would cost $5.3 million initially and $500,000
annually to protect $10 million of Caesars Entertainment’s debt.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. Investors and traders use the contracts to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness.  Caesars Entertainment shares rose 2 percent to $15.89 at
10:17 a.m.  New York  time. They have more than doubled this year.  Online Gambling  Caesars Growth Partners, jointly run by Caesars
Entertainment and Caesars Acquisition Co., will run businesses
offering social and mobile games, a regulated online gambling
division, as well as Baltimore and Las Vegas casinos.  The U.S. gambling industry has struggled to return to its
pre-recession 2007 peak as  consumer  interest has remained weak.
 Penn National Gaming Inc. (PENN) , an operator of 28 casinos and
racetracks that competes with Caesars Entertainment and  MGM
Resorts International (MGM) , last week trimmed its profit outlook for
the year on bad weather and “suicidal” marketing tactics by
rivals.  The Wyomissing, Pennsylvania-based company cited intense
rivalry in the region near Cincinnati after Caesars
Entertainment opened a new location there and weaker-than-expected results from newer casinos in Columbus and Toledo,
 Ohio . Revenue from Caesars Entertainment’s Ohio properties has
been weaker than expected, Loveman said.  The company’s results in the same period last year included
a $101 million impairment charge on its Macau land.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  