-- Chavez Allies Knew He Was Dying in December, Correa Says
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2013-07-29T17:36:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/chavez-allies-knew-he-was-dying-in-december-correa-says.html
Hugo Chavez’s allies knew he was
dying last December, even as his government insisted he would
recover in time to be sworn in as president earlier this year,
according to Ecuadorean President  Rafael Correa .  Former Cuban President  Fidel Castro  told Correa the facts
after the Ecuadorian leader visited Chavez at his hospital in
 Havana  on the eve of his fourth operation in 18 months to treat
an unspecified form of cancer.  “He told me the matter was very serious and that President
Chavez had few months of life left and that we needed to prepare
ourselves emotionally,” Correa said today in an interview on
Telesur. Castro asked for his “absolute discretion.”  Chavez suffered a lung infection after the operation and
missed the inauguration scheduled for Jan. 10, triggering a
constitutional crisis as the opposition called for the self-declared socialist to stand down. He was never seen in public
again and died in a Caracas hospital March 5.  His handpicked heir, President  Nicolas Maduro , who won a
subsequent emergency election in April, said Jan. 20 that the
former paratrooper’s health was improving and he would soon
enter a new stage in his recovery.  In his first interview after Chavez’s death, Maduro told
Telesur that the death of his mentor had come as a surprise.  “In spite of all these circumstances, what we never
thought would happen happened that March 5 when President Chavez
at 4:10 p.m. or 4:15 p.m. began a stage of irrecoverable
deterioration,” Maduro said March 12. “We weren’t ready. How
can anyone be ready to accept that Comandante Chavez won’t be
with us anymore?”  Opposition leader Henrique Capriles Radonski said March 11
that Maduro and the government lied to Venezuelans about the
health and timing of Chavez’s death and accused his rival of
using the emotion surrounding the death to boost his electoral
chances.  Argenis Chavez, the late president’s brother, said the day
after that the government never lied to the country and called
Capriles’ questioning of when Chavez died “immoral” and
“barely human.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 