-- Cheung Kong’s Li Won’t Front Hong Kong Media After Earnings
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2013-07-29T09:39:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/cheung-kong-s-li-won-t-front-hong-kong-media-after-earnings.html
Li Ka-shing ,  Asia ’s richest man,
won’t hold a media briefing following his biggest companies’
interim results announcement this week, breaking with a
tradition that goes back at least 10 years.  Li, 85, won’t speak to the media after  Cheung Kong Holdings
Ltd. (1)  and  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  announce their earnings on Aug.
1, Winnie Cheong, a spokeswoman for Hong Kong-based Cheung Kong,
said by phone today, without providing a reason.  The billionaire, who controls the city’s second-biggest
developer by market value and biggest container  terminal
operator  has been under attack by Hong Kong lawmakers and
activists this year following a pay dispute with port workers
and the sales of hotel rooms that led to an investigation by the
city’s securities regulators. Li, nicknamed “Superman” by the
local media for his investment prowess, forecast in 2007 that
 China ’s stock-market bubble would burst and in 2009 predicted
the rally in Hong Kong home prices.  “He does have a good sense of what is going on globally,”
said  Alex Wong , a Hong Kong-based director at Ample Capital Ltd.
“Sometimes when he gave tips or directions in the past they
were quite accurate so people respected that.”  Li’s  companies  invest in businesses including real estate,
retail, utilities, telecommunications and logistics in more than
50 countries. He often gives his views on topics such as the
global economy and Hong Kong property prices during the bi-annual earnings briefings, which are televised.  The company will hold a briefing for analysts on the day of
the earnings announcement, Cheong said. Li didn’t speak with
reporters following his companies’ annual shareholder meetings
in May.  Port Strike  About 450 port workers at Li’s Hongkong International
Terminals Ltd. went on a 40-day strike in April demanding higher
wages. The workers surrounded Li’s office building in the
Central business district, spurring a court battle with the
company over their right to protest.  The strike, which ended after workers accepted a 9.8
percent wage increase, may have cost Li about HK$100 million
($13 million), according to Citigroup Inc.  Hutchison Whampoa, Li’s biggest company, is asking
potential buyers to submit bids for ParknShop, one of Hong
Kong’s two main supermarket chains, by mid-August, people with
knowledge of the matter said this month. The company is
considering the sale because of the unit’s slow growth and as it
seeks to expand other businesses.  Cheung Kong  in May canceled the sale of HK$1.4 billion of
hotel rooms at the Apex Horizon project in the city’s west,
after being notified by the Securities and Futures Commission
that the sales constituted unauthorized “collective investment
scheme.”  Property Transactions  Regulators saw the move as a means of skirting an increase
in taxes on apartments to curb prices. Days after the sales, the
government extended the taxes to include hotels and other
commercial real estate for the first time, and sent inspectors
to check that the Apex Horizon units weren’t being used as
residences.  Public comments by Li, 16th on the  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index  with a net worth of $27.4 billion, are scrutinized for any
hints on succession plans. He has said that Victor Li, his
eldest son, will lead Cheung Kong and Hutchison Whampoa after
his retirement, and has pledged to provide other son Richard,
chairman of telecommunications company  PCCW Ltd. (8) , with funding
“any time.”  Cheung Kong, the city’s second-biggest developer by value,
in March reported underlying profit rose 6 percent as rental-income growth offset a decline in home sales.  Hong Kong’s property transactions are at their lowest in
nearly two decades following repeated measures by the government
to curb prices. Li in March said that if buyers need to borrow
too much, they shouldn’t buy property, a messaged he had
delivered in the past two years.  Li, who opened a plastic flower factory in Hong Kong after
World War II, began investing in the city’s real estate in 1967
after riots from China’s Cultural Revolution depressed prices.
He has built Cheung Kong into a company with a market value of
$34 billion. The shares fell 0.3 percent to HK$109.60 at the
close of trading today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in  Hong Kong  at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  