-- China Cities May Tighten Property Curbs as Slowdown Lifts Target
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-29T22:21:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/china-cities-may-tighten-property-curbs-as-slowdown-lifts-target.html
Chinese cities seeking to cap home-price gains below income growth may need to tighten property
curbs as the nation’s slowing economic expansion makes their
targets more difficult to meet.  Hangzhou , the capital city of the eastern province of
Zhejiang, will tighten approvals of pre-sale permits in the
second half and may raise down payments for second homes to make
sure its price-control target is met, according to a July 27
report by Today Morning Express, a Chinese-language newspaper
affiliated with the provincial government.  China’s economy   slowed  for a second quarter as the pace of
factory output weakened, adding to risks that the government
will miss its expansion target and cutting income growth
excluding inflation to 6.5 percent in the first half, from 9.7
percent a year earlier. That leaves less room for the 35
provincial-level cities that have set annual home-price targets
this year, mostly capping increases at local income growth.  “The home-price problem facing the Hangzhou government in
the second half isn’t an isolated case, and therefore we expect
more second- and third-tier cities to tighten price controls,”
Luo Yu, a Shanghai-based analyst at advisory firm CEBM Group,
wrote in an e-mailed report. “The use of administrative
measures such as pre-sale permits and price registration will
have a negative impact on housing supply and sales.”  Permits Rejected  The bigger, first-tier cities such as Beijing, Shenzhen and
Guangzhou, where home-price gains have been among the biggest
this year, have already been rejecting pre-sale permits for
projects whose target selling prices are deemed too high by
local officials. Guangzhou plans to cap land prices at 145
percent of the auction’s starting price, Xinhua News Agency
reported July 26, citing local draft rules.  Home prices  in Guangzhou led gains among 70 cities the
government tracks, with an increase of 16 percent last month
from a year earlier, the biggest for the city since the
methodology changed in 2011. Prices in Hangzhou rose 7.1
percent, according to data from the National Bureau of
Statistics.  Hangzhou’s new-home price gains last month were “very
close” to its urban income growth, the newspaper report said,
citing a municipal government meeting analyzing half-year
economic conditions. Income by the city’s urban residents
increased by 6.5 percent in the first half, compared to last
year’s 7.4 percent, according to its statistics bureau.  There was no immediate reply to a fax sent to Hangzhou’s
housing bureau’s press office seeking comment on the report.  Cities including Hangzhou, Xuzhou and Hefei have tightened
lending by local housing providence centers, set up by the
government and funded by residents and their employers, after
strong home sales this year strained their resources, the  China 
Business News reported yesterday without citing anyone.  China’s housing sales in the first six months jumped 46
percent from a year earlier as the  property market  recovered
after the central bank cut  interest rates  last year to stem an
economic slowdown.  --Zhang Dingmin. With assistance from Bonnie Cao in  Shanghai .
Editors: Andreea Papuc, Iain McDonald  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ; 