-- China Money Rate Climbs Most in a Month as Banks Build Reserves
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-07-29T02:38:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/china-money-rate-climbs-most-in-a-month-as-banks-build-reserves.html
China’s benchmark money-market rate
climbed the most in more than a month on speculation banks are
hoarding cash to meet  reserve requirements .  The People’s Bank of China gauged demand for sales of 91-day bills this week, according to a primary dealer required to
bid at the auctions. The central bank also asked banks to submit
orders for 28-day repurchase contracts and seven- and 14-day
reverse-repurchase agreements, the trader said.  “Banks need to park reserves with the central bank by Aug.
5,” said Kumar Rachapudi, a senior rates strategist in
 Singapore  at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  “Banks
will be accumulating cash to make that payment. They would be
less willing to lend in the  interbank market . So typically
money-market rates are higher.”  The  seven-day repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, climbed 59 basis points, or 0.59
percentage point, to 5 percent as of 10:25 a.m. in Shanghai,
after increasing 65 basis points last week, according to a
weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. That was the biggest increase since June 20, when the
rate reached a record 12.45 percent amid a cash squeeze.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, rose three basis
points to 4.06 percent in Shanghai, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The State Council, under Premier  Li Keqiang , requested the
National Audit Office to conduct a review of government
borrowings, according to a statement on the audit office’s
website yesterday, which didn’t provide details.  The first audit of local government debt found liabilities
of 10.7 trillion  yuan  ($1.7 trillion) at the end of 2010, the
Audit Office said in June 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  