-- China’s Solar Wall Sparks REC Bondholder Revolt: Nordic Credit
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2013-07-29T10:42:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/china-s-solar-wall-sparks-rec-bondholder-revolt-nordic-credit.html
China ’s latest salvo in a solar
energy trade dispute is threatening to derail a plan by
 Renewable Energy Corp. ASA (REC)  to split the company as bondholders
balk at the prospect of losses.  China’s plan to impose import tariffs as high as 57 percent
on polysilicon shipped from the U.S. and  South Korea  may see REC
bondholders scupper a spinoff of its solar wafer, cell and panel
units as they’re left with less cash from polysilicon operations
to service their debts.  “If they’re able to go through with the split, it will
have to be on improved terms for bondholders,” Arne Eidshagen,
who helps manage about 7 billion kroner ($1.2 billion) in
corporate debt at Alfred Berg Asset Management in Oslo, said by
phone. “We’ll probably not vote for it as the arrangement
stands but that’s not final.”  REC, which has been battling falling prices amid industry
overcapacity, needs bondholder approval to proceed with a plan
to sell its solar unit to existing shareholders in a deal that
values the business at 800 million kroner ($135 million). The
company will leave all the debt with the silicon business, where
Chinese tariff plans have put earnings at risk.  Little Chance  After sliding on July 18, the day of the announcement of
both the split and the tariffs, yields on the company’s 11
percent September 2014 bond have been little changed at about
9.97 percent, according to  DNB ASA (DNB)  pricing compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with an increase of 35 basis points in
yield on the 9.75 percent bond maturing May 2018.  “There is little chance for REC to stay competitive in the
Chinese market,” Jason Channell and Phuc Nguyen, analysts at
Citigroup Inc., said in a note last week.  Sandvika, Norway-based REC, the world’s lowest cost
producer of polysilicon, is among companies to receive the
highest anti-dumping duty of 57 percent on its exports from two
U.S. plants to China.  The Chinese decision marks the preliminary ruling in a
probe opened last year. It’s a response to a U.S. decision in
2012 to impose tariffs of as much as 250 percent on Chinese
solar panels after a plunge in prices led to the bankruptcy of
manufacturers such as Solyndra LLC, which was based in Fremont,
 California .  “Had it not been for this tariff, it would have been easy
to say that this is a good idea,” Eidshagen said. “Given the
tariff, then you need to be concerned that some of the future
earnings will now reside in REC Solar. That’s much more of a
problem now.”  ‘Unfortunate’ Decision  REC reported second-quarter  earnings  before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization of 152 million kroner, with
polysilicon and silane gas contributing 106 million kroner. That
compares with Ebitda of 75 million kroner for the wafer, cell
and solar panel unit.  While the Chinese decision is “unfortunate” the merits of
the proposed split still stand, including 800 million kroner in
new equity from investors and a reduction in refinancing risk,
according to REC Chief Financial Officer Kjell Christian Bjoernsen.  “Such a significant increase in new equity is a
significant strengthening of the whole business system,” he
said by phone on July 24. “The current deal as proposed should
be something that we would hope they would be able to support in
bondholder meetings.”  The split will boost the cash holding of REC ASA, the
polysilicon-making parent, by about 500 million kroner, adding
to the 1.6 billion kroner in cash and cash equivalents at the
end of the second quarter, ahead of the maturity of 1.9 billion
kroner of bond debt due next year.  “There’s an interesting difference of interest for holders
in different bonds,” Eidshagen said. “If you own the 2014
bonds then you should definitely vote in favor but if you own
the longer bonds then it’s a much tougher decision.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  