-- Congress Betrays 3M to Google Over Patent Fees With Cuts
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-07-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/congress-betrays-3m-to-google-over-patent-fees-with-cuts.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  3M (MMM)  Co. are among the
top patent-holding companies that agreed two years ago to pay
higher fees if Congress let the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office 
use the funds to address a work backlog and improve application
scrutiny.  Congress instead held back as much as $148 million in fees
due to automatic federal spending cuts under a process known as
sequestration -- and the companies are crying foul.  “We were willing to pay those and thought it was an
investment that needed to be made in the patent office,” said
Kevin Rhodes, chief intellectual property counsel for 3M, the
 St. Paul , Minnesota-based maker of  Scotch tape , Ace bandages and
boat wax. “All we asked in return was that all the fees be used
to pay for the services we paid for.”  The patent office, with a $2.9 billion fiscal 2013 budget
funded by user fees, has had to scale back plans to update its
computer system, stop most hiring and delay moving into new
permanent regional offices in  Dallas , Denver and Silicon Valley.  Companies  paying 15 percent higher fees have been lobbying
the White House and Congress, saying the patent office should be
immune from the forced U.S. cuts because it isn’t tax-supported.
Withholding patent office funding, they say, could stifle
innovation by lengthening the average 18-month wait for
completion of an application’s first review and imperiling a new
post-grant reappraisal process, causing more disputes to end up
in court.  Patent Fees  Congress passed legislation in 2011 that changed how patent
applications were handled from the moment they entered the
Alexandria, Virginia-based agency and added new review processes
for patents already issued.  At the center was a provision allowing the patent office to
set its own rates and have greater control over its money. The
goal was to end Congress’s diversion of about $1 billion in
patent fees into the general treasury because a 1990 law
required the agency to support itself. The rate increases were
intended to help the office, known as the PTO, get back on
track.  “Unless the PTO is given access to the fees it’s
collecting and released from the constraints it’s under, it will
be hard-pressed to do anything,” said David Kappos, the formr
patent office director, now a lawyer with Cravath, Swaine &
Moore LLP in  New York . “I am very concerned about its ability
to successfully implement everything that’s already on the
plate.”  Litigation Practices  President  Barack Obama  and members of Congress are seeking
to limit certain litigation practices of firms that buy up
patents and then accuse large numbers of companies of
infringement.  Many of those patents are the types that companies such as
 Mountain View , California-based Google say were wrongly issued
by a patent office overwhelmed during and after the dot-com boom
of the late 1990s.  New procedures were created in the legislation to review
patents already issued, which meant hiring 60 administrative law
judges for the year ending Sept. 30. Only 18 have been hired so
far, with another 16 in the pipeline, said  Todd Elmer , the
patent office’s chief communications officer.  “Quality starts by staffing and resourcing the patent
office,” said  Horacio Gutierrez , deputy general counsel of
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , based in Redmond,  Washington .  Microsoft, which typically ranks in the top 10 recipients
of U.S. patents each year, pays “tens of millions more each
year” in higher patent fees, he said. Without the fixes to the
patent system, that amounts to “a tax increase that is not
going to result in the improvement of patent quality.”  Backlog, Computers  The patent office has delayed attempts to reduce a backlog
of applications, allow better examination and update its
computer system -- spending money only when hardware breaks.  Elmer said the agency is projecting a bigger backlog of
applications awaiting first review, currently at 590,000 from a
peak of 721,000 in December 2010.  The agency’s computer system, once described by its chief
information officer as “beyond horrific,” was to be upgraded
in order to automate some procedural steps.  Examiners are limited in the number of hours they can spend
on each application so much of their time is wasted doing what a
computer could handle.  “What we’re putting into examination time up front is
pretty small when you consider the power of the patent when it
is issued,” said Suzanne Michel, Google’s senior patent
counsel. “Doing a better job upfront is better for innovation
as a whole.”  Satellite Offices  While a new patent office in  Detroit  just had its one-year
anniversary, satellite facilities in Dallas, Denver and Silicon
Valley provided for in the 2011 legislation will have to remain
in temporary spaces. That means plans to hire more workers also
will be delayed.  Representative Mike Honda, a Democrat whose district
includes Silicon Valley, has proposed not subjecting the patent
office to sequestration.  The White House Office of Management and Budget, though,
already determined that the patent office is subject to the
cuts. In addition, Republican Frank Wolf of  Virginia , who heads
the House Appropriations’ Commerce, Justice, Science and Related
Agencies subcommittee, on July 10 said the patent office has
adequate funding and “there is no excuse” for not opening the
permanent offices.  “A regional patent office actually drums up more business
and potentially more revenue,” said Emily Lam, who oversees
advocacy for the Silicon Valley Leadership Group, a  San Jose ,
California-based trade organization that spent more than three
years lobbying for a regional patent office office. “Policy-wise it doesn’t make any sense whatsoever. It doesn’t save us
any money by being put under the sequester.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 