-- Copper Swings Between Gains and Drops as China Orders Debt Audit
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-07-29T10:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/copper-swings-between-gains-and-drops-as-china-orders-debt-audit.html
Copper swung between gains and drops
in  London  as investors weighed a review of state debt in  China ,
the biggest consumer of the metal, against a weaker dollar.  The review, ordered by the State Council, underscored
dangers to the economy from borrowing by local governments and
an expansion of non-traditional sources of credit. The Bloomberg
U.S. Dollar Index, measuring the greenback against 10
currencies, headed for a sixth drop in seven sessions.  “The announcement to audit local government debt in China
plus CTA selling last Friday led to a weak metals market,”
Richard Fu, director for Asian commodity trading at Newedge
Group SA in London, said in a report today, referring to
Commodity Trading Advisors.  Copper for delivery in three months slipped 0.1 percent to
$6,855 a metric ton by 10:42 a.m. on the London Metal Exchange
after climbing as much as 0.1 percent. Prices reached $6,820,
the lowest since July 10. Copper for delivery in September fell
0.1 percent to $3.102 a pound on the Comex in  New York .  China’s economy  slowed for nine of the last 10 quarters. An
official gauge due Aug. 1 will show manufacturing in the nation
shrank this month, according to economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. A weaker dollar makes raw materials priced in the
currency cheaper in terms of other monies.  Money managers cut their net-short position, or wagers on
lower copper prices, to 12,974 Comex futures and options as of
July 23, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data showed.  Federal Reserve policy makers will start a two-day meeting
tomorrow. The central bank has said it may start paring stimulus
aimed at stoking growth in the U.S., the second-biggest copper
user, if the economy meets its forecasts.  Rio Tinto Group said it’s delaying work on a $5.1 billion
underground expansion of its Oyu Tolgoi copper mine pending
financing approval by Mongolia’s parliament. Rio made its first
commercial copper shipment from the mine this month.  Copper stockpiles monitored by the LME fell for a ninth
session to 618,775 tons, daily exchange figures showed. Orders
to draw metal from warehouses slid 1 percent to 316,500 tons.  Tin, nickel and zinc fell in London. Aluminum rose and lead
was little changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  