-- Cousins to Buy Texas Office Portfolio for $1.1 Billion
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-07-30T20:47:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/cousins-to-buy-texas-office-portfolio-for-1-1-billion.html
Cousins Properties Inc. (CUZ) , an Atlanta-based real estate investment trust, agreed to buy a portfolio of
office buildings in Texas for $1.1 billion to expand in a fast-growing commercial-property market.  The company will purchase Greenway Plaza, a 4.4 million-square-foot (409,000-square-meter), 10-building office complex
in Houston; and 777 Main Street, a 980,000-square-foot office
tower in Fort Worth, Cousins said yesterday in a statement. It
plans to sell 60 million shares to help fund the transaction.  The deal represents a large bet by Cousins on Texas real
estate, with a price close to the company’s entire market value
of $1.28 billion. The REIT has been has been expanding in the
state in the past year, including a $102.4 million acquisition
in Austin in April and the $232.6 million purchase of Houston
towers in February. With the latest agreement,  Texas  properties
will make up half of Cousins’s portfolio by square footage, said
David Toti, an analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in New York.  “It’s pretty sizable, especially for a relatively small
company like Cousins,” Toti said of yesterday’s deal. “It is
pretty big to really change their portfolio from being primarily
Atlanta-based to being 50 percent Texas.”  Cousins  shares  fell 2.8 percent to $10.28. The company’s
stock offering is equal to about half of its current 120 million
shares outstanding.  Houston Demand  Houston has been luring buyers seeking properties with
lower costs and higher returns than buildings in other pricier
U.S. cities. Sales of offices in the city rose 32 percent to
$3.89 billion in 2012, the highest in five years, according to
Real Capital Analytics Inc., a New York-based research firm.  “This transaction provides an outstanding fit on many
levels,” Larry Gellerstedt, Cousins’s chief executive officer,
said today on a conference call. “Not only do we expect this
transaction to be accretive, we are able to expand our Texas
platform and provide substantial geographic diversification at a
significant discount to replacement costs.”  The seller of the Greenway Plaza and 777 Main Street
buildings is a joint venture operated by Crescent Real Estate
Holdings LLC. The purchase is expected to be completed by the
middle of September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in New York at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  