-- Croda to Buy Sichuan Sipo for $58.8 Million for Polymers
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2013-07-29T10:51:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/croda-to-buy-sichuan-sipo-for-58-8-million-for-polymers.html
Croda International Plc (CRDA) , the world’s
second-largest maker of cosmetic ingredients, agreed to buy a
Chinese maker of fatty-acid products for 38.2 million pounds
($58.8 million) to tap growing demand for lubricant additives
for cars.  The U.K. supplier of sunscreen to Nivea will acquire a 65
percent stake in Sichuan Sipo Chemical Co. from Sichuan Forever
Holding Co., Snaith, England-based Croda said today. It’s paying
a multiple of almost 19 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, based on 2012 profit of 3.1
million pounds.  “The reason behind the valuation from our point of view is
that it gives us fast growth and specializes the business
quickly, so there should be a margin improvement and growth
story,” Chief Executive Officer Steve Foots said in an
interview. “It allows us a ready entry into a market that we’re
starting to know much better.”  Sipo will become part of Croda’s Performance Technologies
division, which has come to the fore amid competition and a
slowdown in growth in the cosmetic-ingredients business that was
the main growth driver. Foots is trying to address the
performance unit’s skew toward Europe and get margins close to
the levels achieved for consumer-product ingredients.  Lubricant Additives  Croda rose as much as 1.8 percent to 2,459 pence, the
biggest intraday increase since July 8, and was trading up 0.5
percent to 2,428 pence as of 10:36 a.m. in London. The stock has
gained 2.2 percent this year, valuing the company at 3.3 billion
pounds.  A European auto-industry contraction cut demand for
additives in lubricants, coatings and polymers, with sales at
Croda’s performance technologies business declining 0.7 percent
to 100.8 million pounds in the second quarter.  Auto sales in  China  are surging, helping manufacturers such
as  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  offset sluggish demand elsewhere. At the
same time, the market for more environmentally friendly
synthetic lubricants is opening up as the nation seeks to lower
emmissions.  Sichuan Forever will retain a 35 percent stake.  The Sipo deal is Croda’s largest since the purchase of
Uniqema for $742 million at the time. As an added bonus, it
brings access to a rape seed variety that Sipo plants to extract
raw materials for its polymer additives that can be used in
areas such as food-packaging films.  “Our approach to M&A is technology and geography,” Foots
said. “If we can find a manufacturing footprint that gets us
into interesting markets and geographies then we’ll take a close
look at them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in  London  at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  