-- Danone Revenue Growth Beats Estimates on Baby Nutrition
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-07-29T10:47:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/danone-revenue-growth-beats-estimates-on-baby-nutrition.html
Danone (BN) , the owner of Evian bottled
water and Activia yogurt, reported second-quarter sales growth
that beat estimates as the company sold more baby-nutrition
products in  China  and dairy sales rose more than forecast.  Like-for-like revenue gained 6.5 percent from a year
earlier, the Paris-based company said in a statement today. The
median of 11 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg was 5.7
percent. Total  sales  increased 6.7 percent to 5.72 billion euros
($7.6 billion). Volume jumped 4.1 percent, the strongest gain in
the past eight quarters, the company said.  “It’s certainly a good set of figures,” Jon Cox, head of
European consumer equities at Kepler Cheuvreux in Zurich, said
by phone. “Danone is the fastest-growing big food company in
 Europe  at the moment and has a great portfolio, which is
reflected in the numbers. I expect consensus expectations to
move higher. Dairy is better than what the market expected.”  Sales of baby-nutrition products have surged in China as a
spate of food-safety scandals has fueled frenzied demand for
foreign formula. Bulk purchases by concerned mothers have opened
the way for the top four international producers to control more
than a third of the industry. Organic sales at Danone’s baby-nutrition unit rose almost 14 percent in the quarter, beating
analysts’ estimates.  Organic, or like-for-like, sales exclude acquisitions,
disposals and currency fluctuations.  Stock Jumps  Danone  jumped  as much as 3.7 percent to 59.58 euros, the
highest intraday price since May 28, and was trading up 3.2
percent at 12:45 p.m. in Paris. The stock has gained 19 percent
this year, valuing the company at 37.7 billion euros.  The company was among baby-formula producers targeted this
month in a Chinese government price-fixing investigation. Danone
announced within days that it would cut prices of all its Dumex-branded products by 5 percent to 20 percent.  Mead Johnson
Nutrition Co. (MJN)  and  Nestle SA (NESN)  also said they’d reduce the amount
they charged customers in the country.  “Ups and downs” in China won’t change the growth picture
in the country, and Danone has “every reason to be positive,”
Chief Financial Officer Pierre-Andre Terisse told analysts at a
meeting in  London  today.  Russian Growth  Sales at Danone’s dairy division gained 2.6 percent on an
organic basis as people ate more Greek yogurt in the U.S. and
Prostokvashino products in  Russia , offsetting weak demand in
Europe. Danone is expanding its dairy business in Russia and the
U.S. to make up for western European consumers switching to
cheaper private labels in the debt-burdened region. The median
estimate of nine analysts was for Danone to report dairy organic
sales growth of 1.9 percent.  “Danone is off to a strong start in 2013 in an economic
and consumption context that remains difficult in Europe, and in
some cases volatile in emerging countries,” Chief Executive
Officer Franck Riboud said in the statement. “In Europe,
simplifying our model and reducing costs remain a priority.”  Argentina and  Egypt  are “difficult” markets among
emerging economies, Terisse told analysts.  First-half operating profit as a proportion of sales, and
excluding one-time gains or costs, narrowed 49 basis points from
a year earlier to 13.3 percent as dairy prices were cut in
Europe, Danone said.  Margin Forecast  The trading operating margin was in line with what the
company  forecast , even after input costs increased more than
expected, Terisse said on a conference call with journalists.
Danone will continue to reduce costs to “regain competitiveness
in Europe,” the CFO said. The margin will improve in the second
half of 2013, Terisse told the analysts.  Danone will work on stabilizing market share in Europe
before pushing to return to growth, Terisse said. The company’s
European dairy business is unlikely to grow in the second half,
he said. At the same time, the unit’s market share is increasing
in  Portugal , and U.K. dairy “is doing well” as “an
exception” in the region, Terisse said.  A stabilization or improvement of the company’s market
share in European countries helped improve second-quarter volume
growth in the region, Terisse said. Like-for-like volume
declined 1.6 percent in Europe in the period, Danone said.  Danone will team up with coffee chain  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  to
sell Greek yogurts in the U.S. starting next year, and it’s
“positive” about Russian dairy consumption, Yves Legros, head
of operations in Russia, told reporters in Moscow this month.
Russia and the U.S. account for 18 percent of Danone’s revenue.  Yogurt Pricing  Danone introduced Greek yogurt under the Activia brand as
well as Oikos dips in the U.S. in the second quarter. The
company is expecting more promotions this year in the U.S.’s
Greek-yogurt market following industrywide price cuts in the
first half, Terisse said today.  Like-for-like revenue at Danone’s waters division jumped
almost 11 percent in the quarter as growth in  emerging markets 
offset falling European sales. Sales at the medical-nutrition
unit rose 4.7 percent on the same basis, less than analysts
estimated, because of pressure on health-care spending.  The first-half trading operating profit gained 2.3 percent
to 1.48 billion euros, matching the median of 11 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Underlying net income fell 1.3
percent to 873 million euros, hurt by shifts in currencies such
as the Brazilian real and the Argentinian peso.  Danone reiterated its forecast today for like-for-like
sales growth of at least 5 percent this year and the trading
operating margin narrowing by a range of 30 basis points to 50
basis points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  