-- DiaGenic Drops as Alzheimer’s Test Study Misses Goal: Oslo Mover
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   R e e d
-- 2013-07-29T09:19:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/diagenic-drops-as-alzheimer-s-test-study-misses-goal-oslo-mover.html
DiaGenic ASA (DIAG) , a Norwegian in-vitro
diagnostics company, dropped the most on record in Oslo after
saying that its MCItect test for early stage Alzheimer’s Disease
unexpectedly failed to meet the objectives of a patient study.  “Final study results are still in progress, but it is
clear that the current version of MCItect has not demonstrated
the diagnostic accuracy we deem is required for  CE-marking , U.S.
studies and commercialization,” Chief Executive Officer Paul de Potocki said in a statement today. “A back-up program for a
modified version of MCItect has been prepared and may be quickly
initiated.”  DiaGenic, based in Oslo, slumped as much as  54 percent , the
most since the shares went on the market in August 2004. The
stock traded 40 percent lower at 0.43 krone as of 10:10 a.m.,
making it the biggest decliner on the Oslo stock exchange’s All-Share index today. About 13 times the three-month average daily
volume of shares traded.  “Today’s news was very unexpected because DiaGenic has had
good enough results a year ago from a couple of previous studies
with MCItect,” Norne Securities analyst Jonas Peciulis said in
an e-mailed response to questions. “CE-marking of this test was
expected by the end of this year followed by subsequent
marketing in  Europe  and progress with the clinical trials in the
U.S. for filing with the FDA.”  Genetic Fingerprints  DiaGenic has developed gene-expression technology that uses
blood samples to help researchers find patterns, or unique
genetic fingerprints, which characterize a specific disease. The
method is intended to help detect illnesses including  breast
cancer  and Alzheimer’s, the sixth-largest cause of death in the
U.S., according to the  Alzheimer’s Association .  While DiaGenic may begin a program with a modified version
of its MCItect test, “even if this happens, a lot of time and
more new capital will be needed,” Peciulis said. “This leaves
DiaGenic with one remaining important trigger this year,” a
study of its AMYtect test with GE Healthcare’s  Alzheimer’s
disease  imaging tracer, flutemetamol, the analyst wrote.  Norne doesn’t have a price estimate or recommendation on
DiaGenic, Peciulis said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Reed in Oslo at 
 areed12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  