-- The Beaumont Took Two Years to Get Back on Track: Comment
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-07-29T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/the-beaumont-took-two-years-to-get-back-on-track-comment.html
I’ve been thinking about the
problematic Vivian Beaumont Theatre ever since June 30, when a
commercial booking called “Ann” -- about the straight-shooting
Texas governor Ann Richards -- finally gave up the ghost after
nearly four months of sparsely attended performances.  Eero Saarinen’s magnificent 1,100-seat house is the
flagship of  Lincoln Center Theater . Overlooking the serene
reflecting pool surrounding Henry Moore’s “Reclining Figure,”
it maintains a low profile in the shadow of its monumentalist
neighbors, the Metropolitan Opera and Avery Fisher Hall.  To a degree we can compare LCT with London’s  National
Theatre  -- though its support from federal and local government
is less than 1 percent of its $36.5 million budget.  That may be one reason why LCT’s programming over the last
few years has been a hodgepodge of home-grown productions and
shows brought in to pay the rent.  Tellingly, “Macbeth,” which starts at the Beaumont on
October 24 with Ethan Hawke in the title role, marks the first
play that the company has produced on its own there in the
nearly two years since John Guare’s ballsy “A Free Man of
Color” closed in January, 2011.  In the interim, there’s been “Ann,” along with dark
months and, of course “War Horse,” co-produced with the
National Theatre and a consortium of commercial producers.  ‘War Horse’  “War Horse” was a long-running hit that was bound to lose
steam eventually -- and it did, closing several months earlier
than expected.  It seems the company wasn’t prepared. So “Ann” was booked
to cover  staff and operating expenses, Andre Bishop, the
artistic head of Lincoln Center Theater since January 1992, told
me.  The Beaumont is officially a Broadway theater, with the
concomitant expenses. When “Ann” closed early too, the
Beaumont ended up dark for three-plus months.  The company’s two smaller venues, meanwhile, were busy
presenting remarkable work.  Below the Beaumont is the 299-seat Mitzi E. Newhouse, where
Christopher Durang’s “Vanya and Sonya and Masha and Spike”
opened. It subsequently transferred to a conventional Broadway
house and won the Tony Award for best play.  Pulitzer Prize  The even smaller Claire Tow, a 112-seat jewel box atop the
Beaumont that opened just one year ago, had another triumph with
the Pulitzer Prize-winning “Disgraced.”  LCT also opened two more shows -- a revival of Clifford
Odets’s “Golden Boy” and Douglas Carter Beane’s “The Nance”
starring Nathan Lane -- directly on Broadway, with the company’s
30,000 members offered the same lower ticket prices as uptown.  When “War Horse” opened, even those of us who liked the
show wondered why an import from  London  was getting a showcase
in one of America’s premiere nonprofit houses.  Bishop insists the show was no mere rental.  “‘War Horse’ was absolutely a partnership,” he told me.
“A great deal of work was done on the text, it was much darker
and quite different from London. It was also 20 minutes
shorter.”  That doesn’t seem like much to me, but the management of
the National presumably agreed: LCT owned 40 percent of the
Beaumont production.  The key challenge of the Beaumont has always been a
configuration that has daunted every producer in charge since
the theater opened in 1965.  Forward Thrust  “It’s not ideal for a lot of contemporary plays, American
plays -- those one-set family dramas or farces,” Bishop said. I
do remember shows -- a long-ago revival of “The Philadelphia
Story” for one -- in which the fine actors traversing its
football-field-size stage were defeated by the expanse. But
there have been plenty of triumphs as well, including Tom Stoppard’s “The Coast of Utopia” and Guare’s “Free Man.”  In fact, I thought Richard Nelson’s marvelous “Nikolai and
the Others,” which opened in May, ought to have been done in
the Beaumont rather than the Newhouse.  Set on a rural Connecticut estate in the late 1940s, when
Russian emigres were remaking America’s theater and dance
worlds, the show had a large cast and set, both of which seemed
squished on the Newhouse stage.  Bishop originally planned to present “Nikolai” in the
larger theater, but Nelson argued for the intimacy of the
Newhouse. (I was surprised the playwright held so much sway in
the matter, but after a reading, Bishop says, he agreed.)  High Costs  Surely another factor was that a show at the Beaumont costs
between $2 million and $3 million to mount, more than twice the
cost of the Newhouse and a fraction of the Tow.  In the past, LCT has presented shows that ran for a long
time right there in its own theater, adding substantially to the
company coffers.  “Contact” ran two years, five months; “South Pacific”
almost that long, while “Anything Goes,” “Six Degrees of
Separation” and “Light in the Piazza” each ran more than a
year.  “One might argue that part of your mission, no matter how
you define it, is to keep your flagship under full sail,” said
director Gregory Mosher, who ran LCT prior to Bishop and
generally supports letting homegrown hits run in the Beaumont.  Anything Went  “There’s nothing at all wrong with a subsidized theater’s
running a production for a long time,” he said. (Both
“Anything Goes” and “Six Degrees” were produced by him).
“When you run a theater, the only thing that matters is whether
you’re honoring your mission.”  After “Macbeth,” LCT will present the world premiere of
“Act One,” James Lapine’s adaptation of Moss Hart’s celebrated
autobiography. That combination of a classic and a new work
seems just about right.  Bishop has done a fine job balancing economic need, at a
time when public subsidy is shamefully dwindling, with artistic
adventurism.  On the other hand, “War Horse” -- unlike, say, the fully
reimagined “South Pacific” -- was someone else’s discovery. It
could have been mounted in any Broadway theater.  Given the abundant talent available, the Beaumont shouldn’t
be a safe house. Or a rental house, either.  No more “Ann,” please.  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and James Clash
on  Mario Andretti .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 