-- Learjet Spy Planes Buoy Bombardier in Defense-Sales Bid
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-07-29T20:16:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/learjet-spy-planes-buoy-bombardier-in-defense-sales-bid.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  built planes such as
the Challenger 605 and Learjet 70 to transport company
executives. Now it’s overhauling them to monitor terrorists,
hunt for submarines and find sailors lost at sea.  As governments chop defense budgets, the world’s largest
maker of corporate jets is adapting by offering cheaper
alternatives to military designs. Bombardier projects that sales
of such models ultimately may grow 10-fold to 20 percent of
 aerospace revenue , which totaled $8.63 billion in 2012.  “It would be pretty significant if they can pull it off,”
David Tyerman, a Canaccord Genuity analyst, said in a telephone
interview from Toronto. “Defense is part of their backlog, but
it’s a small part. They obviously see a new opportunity and
they’re going to put a lot more resources into it.”  Modified Challengers are being marketed as high-altitude
search-and-rescue aircraft, and the smaller Learjets as signal-intercepting spy planes, according to Ben Boehm, the executive
leading the initiative at Montreal-based Bombardier.  Presidents and prime ministers are potential customers for
Bombardier’s CSeries narrow-body jetliner, just as the U.S.
commander in chief flies in a U.S. Air Force  Boeing Co. (BA)  747,
while duties such as coastal patrols can be performed by Q400
turboprops that now serve regional airports, Boehm said.  Budget Watching  “Every single government is realizing they have to
reconcile how they spend their dollars,” Boehm said in an
interview. “There’s a growing trend to look for off-the-shelf,
commercially certified product lines.”  Expanding a defense business that Boehm said generates
about 1 percent to 2 percent of aerospace revenue would help
Bombardier revive annual sales that have yet to surpass a peak
of $19.7 billion set in 2009. Aerospace made up 51 percent of
the $16.8 billion in 2012 revenue at Bombardier, which reports
second-quarter results on Aug. 1.  The widely traded Class B shares climbed 3.3 percent to
C$5.06 at the close in Toronto, the most since June 25. Their
35 percent gain  this year  compares with a 1.9 percent advance
for  Canada ’s benchmark S&P/Toronto Stock Exchange Composite
Index and a  40 percent surge  for Brazilian jetmaker  Embraer SA. (EMBR3)   Tyerman is among 16 analysts who rate Bombardier as a buy,
compared with seven who say hold and one sell recommendation,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Airborne Radar  Bombardier’s current forays into the military niche include
selling Global 5000 jets to  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  to be reworked into an
airborne radar platform for the U.K.’s Royal Air Force and
turboprops to the Swedish and Japanese coast guards.  Governments can save money by sidestepping the costly
design process for purpose-built military aircraft, Boehm said.
The planes also are less expensive to fly because of
Bombardier’s worldwide maintenance network for commercial
customers, he said.  Revenue from that segment will grow to a range of 10
percent and 20 percent of aircraft sales “over time,” said
Boehm, 43, a former  Royal Canadian Air Force  officer. He
estimated the size of the market at about 1,700 planes over the
next five years.  The push will open a new front in Bombardier’s competition
with rivals such as Embraer and  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) ’s
Gulfstream, which adapt their business aircraft for military
use, too. Embraer, for example, offers command-and-control and
reconnaissance versions of its ERJ-145 regional jet, and got
about 17 percent of its $12.2 billion in 2012 sales from its
defense and government aviation division.  Less Expensive  While executive jets may lack the range, speed or payload
of a warplane, they cost less. A  Boeing 737 , the base model for
the U.S. Navy’s submarine-hunting P-8 Poseidon, has a catalog
price of about $75 million to $90 million in its commercial
variants. A Global 5000 lists for about $49 million.  “As electronics become more sophisticated and smaller and
lighter, there’s a really broad demand for smaller airframe and
engine pairings,” Dave Fitzpatrick, a San Francisco-based
managing director at consultant AlixPartners, said in a
telephone interview. “Some of the regional-jet makers are
becoming really capable in this market.”  Bombardier faces its own execution challenges first.  The maiden flight of the CSeries jetliner, a C$3.4 billion
($3.31 billion) program to develop Bombardier’s biggest-ever
model, has been postponed three times in the past eight months.
Once targeted for takeoff by July 31, the plane is now supposed
to fly “in the coming weeks,” Bombardier said.  Margin Pressure  Costs associated with the CSeries probably will crimp
margins at Bombardier’s aerospace unit by 2 percentage points in
2014 and 2015 before the aircraft starts contributing to
profits, Chief Financial Officer Pierre Alary told analysts on a
conference call May 9.  Defense sales also are hardly a cure-all for a planemaker
facing rivals in all its aviation segments -- executive and
regional jets, and turboprops for commuter carriers.  “It’s highly unlikely that they’ll be able to sell enough
of these planes to make up for the dwindling margins at
aerospace,” said George Tsopeis, a former Bombardier executive
who is now a vice president at Montreal-based advisory firm
Zenith Jet. “There are not enough programs, especially since
there are competitors out there like Gulfstream.”  Defense Cuts  Global military spending fell 0.5 percent last year to
$1.75 trillion, the first drop since 1998, the Stockholm
International Peace Research Institute said in a study in April.
Western and Central European countries were at the forefront
after slashing expenditures by 10 percent since 2008, while
outlays fell 6 percent in the U.S., the study found.  Meanwhile, Asian and Middle Eastern governments are
boosting spending and have shown an appetite for converted
civilian planes. The  United Arab Emirates , for example, was
first customer for Air Tractor Inc.’s new light-attack aircraft
based on a two-decade-old design for a crop-duster.  Global defense cuts are a bigger risk to competitors
selling aircraft designed exclusively for military use than they
are for Bombardier, Boehm said.  “The days of putting a one-off product design into the
market are limited,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  