-- ECB Board Members Call for Publication of Meeting Minutes
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-07-29T10:13:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/ecb-board-members-call-for-publication-of-meeting-minutes.html
Two European Central Bank Executive
Board members said the minutes from policy meetings should be
published, adding to signs the ECB may soon follow other major
central banks in taking the step to increase transparency.  “Transparency is important for the effectiveness of
monetary policy,” Benoit Coeure said in a joint interview with
Joerg Asmussen in  Sueddeutsche Zeitung  and Le Figaro today. The
minutes should state which policy makers voted for which
measures, Asmussen said.  While publication has been discussed since last year, the
debate has gained intensity this month. The ECB’s chief
economist, Peter Praet,  told Handelsblatt  on July 8 that
“sooner or later, we should publish the minutes.” ECB
President  Mario Draghi  stepped up communication on July 4 by
pledging to keep  interest rates  low for an extended period,
citing increased volatility in markets. Bond yields had surged
after  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June 19 that
the Fed may start paring back its monetary stimulus.  “The ECB has been frustrated for a while with constant
market speculation on what the next steps could be,” said
Richard Barwell, senior European economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc in  London . “Markets constantly overreact and don’t
fully understand what they actually want to do. Publishing
minutes would be about educating the market.”  The Frankfurt-based central bank cut its  benchmark rate  to
a record low of 0.5 percent in May as the 17-nation economy
struggles to emerge from its longest-ever recession. Gross
domestic product contracted for a sixth quarter in the three
months ended March and the ECB expects the economy to shrink 0.6
percent this year.  ‘Complex Process’  With inflation below 2 percent, Draghi still has room to
maneuver and has said that he has an open mind to do so. As well
as publishing minutes from the ECB’s monthly policy meetings,
his options include another cut in the benchmark rate, charging
banks for depositing money at the ECB, or introducing additional
long-term loans to banks.  A consensus to release the minutes may not be reached this
week, when central bankers gather in  Frankfurt  before the next
policy announcement on Aug. 1. “Every majority starts as a
minority,” Asmussen said in the Sueddeutsche interview. “The
discussion in the Governing Council is still ongoing.”  The ECB’s current rules, introduced under its first
president,  Wim Duisenberg , stipulate it should only publish
minutes 30 years after the respective meeting. The Federal
Reserve,  Bank of England  and  Bank of Japan  all release minutes
within a matter of weeks.  “It is a complex process and we are actually thinking
about how to proceed,” Draghi  told reporters  in October when
asked if the 30-year rule might change. “We have to evaluate
and assess what this means in our specific context, the European
context, which is different from that of the  United States  and
the  United Kingdom .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  