-- Teck Said to Bid for Rio’s Iron Ore Co. of Canada Unit
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l ,   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-07-29T22:12:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/teck-said-to-bid-for-rio-s-iron-ore-co-of-canada-unit.html
Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B) ,  Canada ’s
second-biggest mining company, is among the remaining bidders
for Rio Tinto Group’s controlling stake in Iron Ore Co. of
Canada, according to a person familiar with the situation.  Rio may decide to keep its Iron Ore Co. stake after being
disappointed with the bids it’s received so far, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because the talks are
private. While London-based Rio has considered selling the
unit’s mining and infrastructure assets separately, it decided
against the plan, the person said. Spokesmen for Teck and Rio
and a spokeswoman for Iron Ore Co. declined to comment.  Buying Canada’s largest iron-ore producer would enable
Vancouver-based Teck to diversify its production, which mostly
comprises coal, copper and zinc. Rio’s 59 percent stake in Iron
Ore Co. may fetch as much as $3.5 billion, Credit Suisse Group
AG analysts said in a note in June.  An acquisition that size would be Teck’s largest since its
C$10.4 billion ($10.1 billion) purchase of Fording Canadian Coal
Trust in 2008, a deal completed just as commodity prices were
beginning to plunge during the financial crisis. In 2009, Teck’s
credit rating was cut to junk by  Standard & Poor’s  and the
company sold a 17 percent stake to China Investment Corp.  Teck now has a “very strong” balance sheet and would like
to keep it that way, Chief Executive Officer Don Lindsay said on
a July 25 earnings conference call with analysts.  “We do look at opportunities in the market,” he said. If
Teck found a potential acquisition,“we’d look at how to finance
it at that stage, but always with the key criteria that we are
staying investment-grade.”  Apollo Interest  Rio hired Credit Suisse and Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce for the Iron Ore Co. sale, a person familiar with the
matter said in March. Private-equity firm Apollo Global
Management LLC made an offer for Rio’s stake, a person familiar
with the situation said in June. Swiss commodity trader Glencore
Xstrata Plc is studying an offer, two people familiar with the
situation said last month.  Canada Pension Plan Investment Board and Montreal-based
pension-fund manager Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec are
seeking partners for possible separate bids and Blackstone Group
LP has also expressed interest, the Wall Street Journal reported
July 5.  Big mining companies are selling assets worldwide as the
slowing Chinese economy depresses prices for metals. In addition
to Rio, Anglo American Plc is looking for partners in its Minas
Rio project in  Brazil , while BHP Billiton Ltd. tries to find a
buyer for mines in West Africa. Rio said yesterday it agreed to
sell its Northparkes copper and gold mine in  Australia  to China
Molybdenum Co. for $820 million.  Iron Ore Co.’s operations are located in Labrador City in
Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada’s easternmost province. It
owns a 418-kilometer (260-mile) railway and port on the Gulf of
St. Lawrence. Labrador Iron Ore Royalty Corp. owns a 15 percent
stake and Mitsubishi Corp. has a 26 percent interest.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  