-- Ecuador Striker Benitez Dies After First Soccer Game in Qatar
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-07-29T23:23:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/ecuador-striker-benitez-dies-after-first-soccer-game-in-qatar.html
Christian Benitez died a day after
the  Ecuador  national soccer team player made his debut for his
new Qatari club.  Benitez, 27, who joined El Jaish on a three-year contract
from Mexico’s Club America this month, was rushed to the
hospital where he suffered cardiac arrest shortly after
complaining about stomach pains, according to  a statement  on the
Ecuador soccer federation’s website.  Benitez, known as Chucho, reported no ill effects after
playing in El Jaish’s 2-0 victory over Qatar Sports Club in the
Sheikh Jassem Cup yesterday, the team said.  “The sudden death of Benitez came as a shock for all team
players and members of the technical and administrative staff
and all members of El Jaish club family,” according to a
statement on the El Jaish website.  Signing Benitez was a coup for Qatari soccer. The striker
finished as the top scorer in  Mexico  last season, helping his
team to the league championship. Prior to that Benitez played
for one season in  England ’s Premier League with Birmingham city.  “Club America football team deeply regrets the death of
one of the most recent America idols, and shares the sorrow felt
by the entire Benitez Betancourt family, and the sport in Mexico,
Ecuador and the world,” the club said on its website.  World Cup  Qatar won the right to stage the 2022 World Cup and is at
the center of controversy over when that event should be played.
Sepp Blatter, president of FIFA, soccer’s world governing body,
said last week the tournament should be moved from its
traditional June-July schedule because of the risk posed by the
Gulf state’s hot weather. Such a move is being resisted by
European soccer’s top leagues, which argue that their calendars
would be disrupted if the schedule is changed.  Qatar’s capital, Doha, had a high temperature yesterday of
40 degrees Celsius (104 degrees Fahrenheit), according to the
Weather Channel’s website. Qatar has pledged World Cup games
will be played in air-cooled stadiums if the tournament is
staged in the summer months.  “I’ve had many people come to Qatar during June and it
wasn’t the horror story people expected, that they would burst
in flames,” Qatar World Cup organizing committee general
secretary Hassan Al Thawadi told a conference in Rio de Janeiro
last month.  “It’s not Armageddon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Rio de Janeiro at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  