-- Egypt’s Mursi Meets EU Envoy as Islamists Urge Protests
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-07-30T15:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/egypt-brotherhood-defies-military-with-call-for-rallies.html
The European Union’s foreign policy
chief called for a political process in  Egypt  that includes all
parties, as supporters and opponents of ex-President Mohamed Mursi failed to agree on steps to end the past month’s turmoil.  Catherine Ashton  became the first foreign official to meet
Mursi after his July 3 ouster by the army. She said the Islamist
leader was well and “we were able to talk about the need to
move forward.” Mursi has been held in an undisclosed location,
and Ashton said she didn’t know where the meeting occurred.  The EU diplomat also held talks with Defense Minister
Abdelfatah al-Seesi and officials from the interim government
backed by the army. She told a press conference in Cairo that
she had urged all sides “to think very carefully about how you
include everybody” in Egypt’s political future.  Mursi’s Muslim Brotherhood calls his removal a coup against
an elected leader and vowed to maintain protests until he’s
restored to office. Security forces killed dozens of pro-Mursi
demonstrators last weekend and authorities threaten a further
crackdown to end sit-ins by Islamists. Nationwide violence has
left scores dead, mostly Brotherhood supporters, and undermined
the government’s calls for reconciliation.  ‘Mursi Failed’  Mohamed ElBaradei , Egypt’s vice president in the interim
government, ruled out a role for Mursi in Egypt during a press
conference with Ashton, while allowing one for his group.
“Mursi failed but the Brotherhood very much continues to be
part of the political process,” he said.  A pro-Mursi coalition made up of Brotherhood members and
other Islamist parties said after its meeting with Ashton last
night that it rejected a political engagement that wasn’t based
on “adhering to constitutional legitimacy” by reinstating
Mursi.  Egypt’s army-backed administration accuses the Brotherhood
of inciting violence to portray itself as a victim.  Ashton extended her stay in Cairo until today to hold more
meetings, the state-run Middle East  News Agency  reported,
without giving details.  It’s “somewhat odd that it is the mostly toothless EU that
makes the first public try at reconciliation,” said  Paul Sullivan , a specialist in Middle East security issues at
 Georgetown University  in  Washington . “Unfortunately, in this
environment of increasing tensions and heated anger, it likely
will prove to be just a try. It is unlikely the Brotherhood will
back down.”  Stop ‘Massacres’  Yields on Egypt’s benchmark Eurobonds due in 2020 fell four
basis points to 8.68 percent at 4:07 p.m. in Cairo today, after
reaching a three-week high yesterday. The  benchmark stock index 
rose 0.8 percent, snapping a four-day decline.  “We welcome any efforts as long as they don’t touch the
legitimacy of the president,” said Hamza Zawba, a spokesman for
the Freedom and Justice Party, the Brotherhood’s political arm.  “If we hear solutions that could be built on, we will
talk,” Zawba said. If Mursi supporters continue to suffer
“deaths and injuries, then I think we don’t have any option
except for steadfastness and to hold onto our legitimacy.”  Last weekend’s violence followed the killing of more than
50 Islamists by security forces on July 8. The pro-Mursi camp
has called for rallies today. It’s also maintaining a sit-in in
Cairo’s Nasr City district, which Interior Minister Mohamed Ibrahim has warned will be dispersed “very soon.”  ‘Complete Disregard’  The mounting death toll has sparked international concerns.
 Amnesty International  said security forces “resorted to lethal
force, with complete disregard for human life,” and U.S.
Secretary of State  John Kerry  called on authorities to respect
the right to peaceful protest.  Egypt’s judiciary on July 26 ordered Mursi’s detention for
15 days in relation to accusations of conspiring with the
Palestinian militant group Hamas in murders, abductions,
jailbreaks and other attacks on the country’s security
buildings.  The Brotherhood and other Islamist groups have been
targeted with arrest warrants and asset freezes. Essam Sultan
and Abul-Ela Madi of the Islamist Wasat Party were arrested in
the latest crackdown, the state-run Ahram Gate website reported.  The military has also pledged to step up operations against
militants in the  Sinai peninsula , where attacks on security
forces have escalated since Mursi’s fall. Two Egyptian policemen
were killed and another wounded in two separate attacks by
unidentified gunmen in northern Sinai, the  Interior Ministry 
said early today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  