-- Einhorn’s Reinsurer Cut Gold Holding Amid Bear Market
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-07-29T22:34:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/einhorn-s-reinsurer-says-it-cut-gold-holding-amid-bear-market.html
Greenlight Capital Re Ltd. (GLRE) , the
reinsurer that counts hedge-fund manager  David Einhorn  as its
chairman, cut an investment in gold in the three months ended
June 30 as prices fell into a  bear market .  The reinsurer had about $50.5 million of commodities at the
end of the second quarter, compared with $90.3 million on March
31, according to a regulatory filing yesterday. The cost basis
for the investments fell to $41.8 million from $59.9 million in
the period, the Cayman Islands-based company said.  The “decrease in commodities was due to a decline in the
price of gold combined with the disposal of a portion of our
physical gold holdings,” according to the filing.  Gold futures dropped 23 percent last quarter, the most
since Bloomberg data begins in 1975, and reached $1,179.40 an
ounce on June 28, the lowest since August 2010. The metal
remains in a bear market reached in April after some investors
lost faith in bullion as a store of value and amid speculation
that the  Federal Reserve  will curb its stimulus program. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. forecast July 22 that prices are likely to
decline further.  About 90 percent of Greenlight Capital Re’s $1.01 billion
of investments backing policyholder liabilities was in stocks at
the end of June, according to the filing. Einhorn, 44, who
oversees the portfolio, has said the bet on gold was a hedge
against  currency devaluation  as central banks around the world
have worked to stimulate the economy by buying bonds and keeping
interest rates low.  The stock market’s “rapid advance is creating a
potentially unstable condition which could resolve a number of
ways and is difficult to predict,” the reinsurer said. The
company plans “to continue holding a combination of a
significant position in gold, macro positions in the form of
options on higher  interest rates  and foreign exchange rates,
short positions in sovereign debt and sovereign credit default
swaps.”  Brian Ruby, a spokesman with ICR Inc. who represents
Greenlight Capital, had no immediate comment on when the
reinsurer sold its holdings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  