-- Teknosa Gains on Report Retailer to Buy Rival: Istanbul Mover
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-07-29T11:35:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/teknosa-gains-on-report-retailer-to-buy-rival-istanbul-mover.html
Teknosa Ic ve Dis Ticaret AS  headed
for the biggest gain in more than a week after a newspaper
reported the Turkish consumer electronics retailer is in talks
to acquire a competitor.  The  shares  rose 2.5 percent to 12.45 liras at the 12:30
p.m. midday break in Istanbul, poised for the largest advance
since July 19. Teknosa was the fourth-biggest gainer in
percentage terms on the  Borsa Istanbul National 100 (XU100)  index, which
was little changed at 72,585.80 after a seven-day slump.  Teknosa, a subsidiary of  Sabanci Holding AS (SAHOL) , is in talks to
buy Electro World  Turkey , the Turkish unit of  Dixons Retail Plc (DXNS) ,
Vatan newspaper reported on July 27, without saying where it got
the information. The companies signed a non-disclosure agreement
and plan to complete the transaction in six months, Vatan said.
The stock climbed 12 percent this month, compared to a 4.9
percent slump for the benchmark index.  “Investors are buying on the possibility that the company
will be much more active in the industry after a possible
acquisition,” Baris Ince, an analyst at BGC Partners in
Istanbul, said by phone today. “If realized, such an
acquisition would be positive for the company.”  In an e-mailed response, Teknosa’s investor relations
department said “there’s no development necessitating us to
make a statement.”  Consumer Growth  Demand for consumer electronics is growing in Turkey, where
about six other retailers, including publicly traded  Bimeks
Bilgi Islem ve Dis Ticaret AS , also vie for customers in the
country of about 76 million. Teknosa has 289 stores in Turkey
and commands 42 percent market share, according to an investor
presentation on its website. Electro World Turkey operates 33
stores in 22 Turkish cities, data on its website show.  Local demand for consumer electronics grew 23 percent last
year to 15.1 billion liras ($7.9 billion), according to Teknosa
estimates. The Istanbul-based company acquired five stores of
 Germany ’s Electronic Partner in 2007 and the Turkish operations
of  Best Buy Co. (BBY)  in 2011.  Almost 106,000 Teknosa shares traded today, 26 percent of
the stock’s three-month daily average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Six analysts, including Ince, recommend
investors buy Teknosa shares, while one says hold, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  