-- Emerging Stocks Fall for Fourth Day on China as Ringgit Slides
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-07-29T21:43:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/emerging-stocks-fall-for-fourth-day-on-china-data-samsung-drops.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for a
fourth day after Chinese industrial companies posted slower
profit growth and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  dragged technology
shares lower. Malaysia’s ringgit weakened to a three-year low.  Anhui Conch Cement Co. (914) ,  China ’s largest cement maker, slid
to a one-month low. Samsung dropped 1.5 percent in Seoul after
Shinyoung Securities Co. cut its share-price forecast. OTP Bank
Nyrt., Hungary’s biggest lender, fell the most in a week after a
board member sold shares. Iron-ore producer Vale SA paced
declines in Brazil’s Ibovespa.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index sank 0.8 percent to 953.86
in the longest losing streak in a month. Net income at Chinese
industrial companies increased 6.3 percent in June from a year
earlier, data showed on July 27, down from 15.5 percent in May.
The  Federal Open Market Committee , which has said it may start
paring stimulus should the  U.S. economy  recover, convenes a two-day meeting tomorrow.  “You’ve got the Fed meeting coming up, and you had the
Chinese data coming out weaker than consensus estimates,”
 Quincy Krosby , a market strategist for  Newark , New Jersey-based
Prudential Financial Inc., which oversees more than $1 trillion
of assets, said by phone. “It conspires to have more caution in
markets, particularly the riskier assets.”  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund lost 1.3 percent to $39.33. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
gained 8.4 percent to 23.08.  OTP Slides  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  tumbled 1.7 percent, with
benchmark gauges in Indonesia and Thailand dropping at least 1.5
percent. The ringgit and Indian rupee slid 0.6 percent against
the dollar as most emerging market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg fell.  OTP sank 4.1 percent, the most since July 19, after board
member Peter Braun sold 200,000 shares on July 26, according to
a statement on the Budapest bourse website. The BUX Index fell
1.7 percent and closed at a three-month low.  OAO Magnit, Russia’s biggest retailer, lost 2.2 percent
after Vedomosti newspaper reported that Moscow Mayor  Sergei Sobyanin  asked sanitary inspectors, police, fire safety control
and migration service to investigate its stores in Moscow and
“take measures to close them.” The Micex index slipped 0.3
percent. A Magnit spokesman, who asked not to be identified
citing company policy, declined to comment on the report.  Aygaz AS, Turkey’s biggest seller of liquefied petroleum
gas, lost 1.8 percent in its fourth day of declines, after Taraf
newspaper reported it may face penalties over a regulatory
probe, without citing anyone.  Brazil, Mexico  Brazil’s Ibovespa fell 0.4 percent as Vale, whose top
export market is China, declined the most in two weeks.  The IPC Index retreated 1.8 percent in Mexico City as
homebuilder Desarrolladora Homex SAB tumbled 32 percent. The
country’s exchange suspended trading on builder Corp. Geo SAB
today after the stock  plunged  25 percent in its 10th day of
drops.  The MSCI developing-nations gauge has  lost  9.6 percent this
year, compared with a 13 percent increase in the MSCI World
Index of developed-country stocks. The emerging-markets measure
trades at 10 times 12-month  projected  profit, compared with the
MSCI World’s 13.8 times, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies
listed in  Hong Kong  fell 1.2 percent, the most in two weeks.
Anhui Conch slid 3 percent, while Jiangxi Copper Co., the
nation’s No. 1 producer of the industrial commodity, retreated
2.2 percent.  Banks Fall  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd . lost 1 percent
and Bank of China Ltd. declined 1.2 percent. The State Council,
under Premier  Li Keqiang , ordered the review of government debt,
the National Audit Office said in a statement yesterday. The
office suspended other projects for this “urgent” work
requested on July 26 and will send staff to provinces and cities
this week, People’s Daily reported yesterday on its website,
citing people it didn’t identify.  “The audit may bring concerns to investors that local
governments may have amassed a huge amount of debt, which will
provide a big drag on the economy and government-led
infrastructure construction,” said  Li Jun , a strategist at
Central China Securities Co. in Shanghai.  Gauges of technology and industrial companies in the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index lost at least 1.1 percent, the most among
10 industry groups. Samsung, the world’s biggest smartphone
maker, fell the most since July 18, dragging the benchmark Kospi
index down by 0.6 percent.  India Slumps  Hyundai Development Co. (012630)  slumped 11 percent in Seoul, the
largest drop in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, after reporting
a quarterly loss and as Samsung Securities Co. reduced its
share-price forecast.  Indian lenders retreated after the chairman of the nation’s
biggest bank said  interest rates  may rise. The  S&P BSE Sensex
Index (SENSEX)  fell for a fourth day, the longest losing streak in two
months, dropping 0.8 percent. HDFC Bank Ltd. lost 1.8 percent in
Mumbai and  State Bank of India , the nation’s biggest bank,
retreated 1.4 percent to the lowest close since Jan. 11, 2012.  India’s central bank is set to raise the benchmark
repurchase rate and cash reserve ratio at its meeting tomorrow
in a move to defend the rupee,  State Bank of India (SBIN)  Chairman
Pratip Chaudhuri said in an interview to Bloomberg TV India.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  was unchanged at 315 basis points,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified
Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  