-- Equity Bank of Kenya First-Half Profit Jumps on Loans Income
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2013-07-29T10:08:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/equity-bank-of-kenya-first-half-profit-jumps-17-on-loans-income.html
Equity Bank Ltd.,  Kenya ’s second-biggest lender by market value, said first-half profit climbed
17 percent on increased earnings from loans as banks held
borrowing costs at more than double the official rate.  Net income jumped to 6.3 billion shillings ($72.2 million)
in the six months through June from 5.4 billion shillings a year
earlier, Chief Executive Officer James Mwangi told reporters
today in the capital, Nairobi. Net interest income, the amount
earned from interest charges, rose 18 percent to 13.3 billion
shillings, he said.  “Growth in the loan book and improved efficiency in the
performance of the bank,” boosted profit, Mwangi said.  Commercial lending rates averaged 17.9 percent at the end
of June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, compared with
the 8.5 percent the  Central Bank  of Kenya charges banks to
borrow funds. Lenders have resisted calls by central bank
Governor Njuguna Ndung’u and Treasury Secretary Henry Rotich to
lower the cost of credit to help stimulate economic growth.  “The results were disappointing because quarter on quarter
earnings per share reduced by 4 percent and return on equity
declined to 28.8 percent from 30.8 percent,” said George Bodo,
head of Africa Banking Research at Nairobi-based Ecobank Capital
Ltd. “They are highly susceptible to lower  interest rates 
because it destabilizes their margins.”  Interest Rates  The central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee has reduced
interest rates by 9.5 percentage points since the start of 2012,
while commercial lending rates have declined from an average of
20.04 percent to 17.9 percent over the same period.  Equity Bank loans grew to 150.5 billion shillings in the
first half from 124.5 billion shillings a year earlier, while
deposits rose to 187.1 billion shillings from 155.7 billion
shillings. The lender cut its loan rate to 18 percent from 25
percent resulting in increased lending, Mwangi said.  “Quarter on quarter they were able to improve cost to
income ratio to 48 percent from 49 percent and that also boosted
the bottom-line,” Ted Macharia, an analyst at Nairobi-based AIB
Capital Ltd. said, said in a phone interview. “We expected
better overall performance.”  Units in  Uganda ,  South Sudan ,  Tanzania  and  Rwanda 
contributed 34 percent of profit compared with 36 percent
following the suspension of donor funding in Uganda and a halt
in oil exports from South Sudan, he said.  Shares in Equity have surged 41 percent this year,
outperforming the FTSE NSE Kenya 25 Index, which has gained 30
percent. The stock may gain further, Aly-Khan Satchu, chief
executive officer of Rich Management Ltd., a Nairobi-based
adviser to companies and high net-worth individuals, said by
phone on July 25.  “I am expecting a rising tide of GDP regionally therefore
banks are a safe way for investors to play that economic
growth,” he said. “At a trailing price to earnings ratio of
9.9, there is some headroom for Equity Bank to grow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  