-- Ackman Attacks Herbalife Again With Laundry List of Doubt
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-07-30T20:22:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/herbalife-gains-after-raising-full-year-profit-forecast.html
Bill Ackman  continued his assault on
 Herbalife Ltd. (HLF)  after the company reported second-quarter
results, questioning everything from its accounting of
Venezuelan exchange rates to rising expenses.  Just after U.S. markets opened today, the founder of New
York hedge fund Pershing Square Capital Management LP issued a
press release filled with arcane questions for the nutrition-supplement company. Sample: Why does Herbalife “have such
meaningfully negative operating leverage in second quarter 2013
and in its projections for 2013 full-year operating income?”  Ackman in December said he had shorted 20 million shares of
Herbalife because it was an illegal pyramid scheme, a charge the
company has denied time and again. After Ackman released his
statement today, the shares reversed course. Earlier they had
gained as much as 9.3 percent after the company yesterday raised
its earnings forecast, and second-quarter profit-per-share
topped analysts’ estimates. The  shares  fell 0.9 percent to
$60.05 at the close in New York. They have gained 82 percent
this year -- generating losses for Ackman.  In a telephone interview, Chief Financial Officer John Desimone declined to respond directly to Ackman’s statement,
saying “we prefer to take the high road” and will instead
continue to “educate investors on the real Herbalife.”  In his press release, Ackman wanted to know why Herbalife
uses the ratio of 6.3 Bolivars to $1 for accounting when the
company discloses that it’s been unable to convert at that rate
and it uses a 10 to 1 rate for its profit forecasts.  Bolivar Accounting  Venezuela accounts for about 4 percent of total sales,
Desimone said. Using 10 to 1 for forecasts is a more
conservative rate that reflects the company’s expectation that
the Bolivar will be devalued further, he said. Other U.S.
companies with operations in  Venezuela  use the same method,
Desimone said.  Based on Herbalife’s share price of $64.09 in late trading
yesterday, the hedge fund manager has lost about $310 million on
his bet. The estimated loss assumes Ackman put on the short
position at a price of $48.58, the average between May last
year, when he first shorted the stock, according to investors,
and Dec. 18, the day before he disclosed his short position.
Ackman hasn’t provided details of his position. He said in the
statement today that he still is short the company.  Short Pressure  Ackman’s short position, a bet that a stock will fall, may
come under more pressure as Herbalife said it would resume its
share buyback program. The company’s annual earnings forecast
includes spending $50 million on share repurchases this quarter,
although it could exceed that, Desimone said, and pointed out
that it spent more than $400 million on buybacks in the second
quarter of 2012.  Executives declined to address Ackman directly on a call
earlier today to discuss the results. Chief Executive Officer
 Michael Johnson  did say that all the “misinformation” over the
past seven months has made Herbalife one of the most researched
companies in the world and in that time it’s proven its
sustainability and financial strength.  “In the long run, Mr. Ackman has done Herbalife an
enormous favor,” Timothy Ramey, an analyst for D.A. Davidson &
Co. in  Lake Oswego ,  Oregon , said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television. “He has precipitated a level of scrutiny that is
intense. When the answers are in and people have vindicated the
business model, this stock will be much, much higher.”  Changing Misconceptions  The company said it took another step toward clearing up
misconceptions by changing what it calls participants. People
who join will now be called members, instead of distributors.
These members can then become sales leaders by selling products
and recruiting members.  One of Ackman’s main criticisms of Herbalife’s multilevel
marketing business model is that the majority of its revenue
comes from recruiting more and more sales people, instead of
selling products to consumers.  Herbalife said that according to analysis of its database,
71 percent of people who join the company only buy products for
their own consumption and haven’t recruited people. Also, in
June it disclosed a Nielsen survey that 7.9 million U.S. adults
bought its wares in the previous three months.  Carl Icahn , the 77-year-old activist investor, disclosed a
stake in Herbalife in February and is now its largest holder
with a 16.5 percent stake as of May 7, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Icahn said has said the company should
consider going private. Desimone declined to comment on whether
this is being considered or if Icahn is pushing for a
transaction.  Excluding some items, second-quarter profit was $1.41 a
share, Herbalife said in a statement yesterday. That topped the
$1.18 average of five analysts’ estimates, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Profit this year will be as much as $4.95
a share, up from a previous projection of a maximum of $4.80,
the company also said. Analysts’ estimated $4.78, on average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  