-- Less Risky Growths Need Less Frightening Name Than Cancer
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-07-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/less-risky-growths-need-less-frightening-name-than-cancer.html
Low-risk growths in the breast,
prostate and elsewhere should no longer be named cancer and
screening efforts to spot them should be cut back, a panel
convened by the U.S.  National Cancer Institute  said.  A three decade-long emphasis on the early identification of
tumors was based on the idea that cancerous cells always spread
and eventually kill, the researchers wrote yesterday in the
 Journal of the American Medical Association . Instead of sparking
a drop in cancer deaths, the approach has led to the detection
and toxic treatment of millions of people who may have never had
any symptoms from indolent lesions.  “The goal going forward is to personalize screening
strategies, and focus screening policies on the conditions that
are most likely to result in aggressive illness and death,”
said Laura Esserman, director of  breast care  at the University
of  California , San Francisco’s cancer center. “By recognizing
that cancer is not one disease, but a number of different
diseases, we can individualize our treatment.”  Lung cancer is a disease that merits screening for high-risk patients, a separate panel of doctors said yesterday.
Smokers ages 55 and older should get imaging scans each year to
detect lung cancer when it is small and can be treated,
according to new recommendations from the U.S. Preventive
Services Task Force. Such testing may save 20,000 lives a year,
the panel said.  The group led by Esserman said that doctors and patients
need to realize that over-diagnosis and excess treatment is
common, and screening exacerbates the problem. Steps should be
taken to reduce the risk, such as cutting the frequency of
screening and its use in people who probably won’t get the
disease, they said.  The bar also should be raised for repeat tests and
biopsies, they said.  Good Intentions  “Although no physician has the intention to over-treat or
over-diagnose cancer, screening and patient awareness have
increased the chance of identifying a spectrum of cancers, some
of which are not life threatening,” the researchers said. “An
ideal screening intervention focuses on detection of disease
that will ultimately cause harm, that is more likely to be cured
if detected early and for which curative treatments are more
effective in early-stage disease.”  Among their recommendations, the authors of yesterday’s
medical journal editorial called for an independent, broad group
under the auspice of an organization such as the Institute of
Medicine of the National Academies to review and rename less-risky lesions and growths currently identified as cancer.  The  Institute of Medicine  is a Washington-based group that
provides health-care advices to U.S. policy makers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  