-- Tetangco Sees Policy Rate on Hold Through 2014: Southeast Asia
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o ,   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   P e t e r   H i r s c h b e r g
-- 2013-07-30T01:24:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/tetangco-sees-policy-rate-on-hold-through-2014-southeast-asia.html
The Philippine central bank sees
inflation staying “well within” the target range this year and
next, enabling it to keep  interest rates  unchanged through 2014,
Governor Amando Tetangco said.  “At this point in time, I don’t see any signs that will
lead us to modify or change the policy rate,” Tetangco, 60,
said in an hour-long interview in his office in  Manila 
yesterday. “That’s based on our inflation forecast. But as I
said, things are continuously evolving.”  The peso, which has weakened about 5 percent this year, is
“not out of line” with its regional peers, with 42 to 44 per
 U.S. dollar  a “good range” for the currency, Tetangco said,
before it closed at 43.325 yesterday. He also said trade with
the 10-member  Association of Southeast Asian Nations  would
offset the impact of a slowing economy in  China , unless there is
a sudden, sharp decline in growth on the mainland.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas has helped shield the fastest
growth rate in  Asia  this year, keeping its benchmark  interest
rate  at a record-low 3.5 percent since October, even as a
weakening peso poses inflationary risks. At stake for the
 Philippines  is maintaining an economic resurgence as it seeks
further credit rating upgrades.  The central bank last week raised its price-gain forecasts
for this year and next, even as it predicted  inflation  will
remain within its 3 percent-to-5 percent target range. Annual
inflation quickened in June from May, with prices rising 2.8
percent from a year earlier.  “We’re not wedded to any particular monetary stance,”
Tetangco said.  On Hold  “Despite very strong growth, there is little sign that
inflation is about to take off,” said  Frederic Neumann , co-head
of Asian economics research at HSBC Holdings Plc in Hong Kong.
“I think we might see the BSP remain on hold for quite a long
time. A rate increase may only come in late 2014.”  The peso is the worst performer in Asia this year after the
yen and the Indian rupee among 11 currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. It fell 0.2 percent today to 43.388 per dollar at
9:15 a.m. in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc.  “We are moving with the regional currencies,” Tetangco
said. “We are not out of line. Last year, we were one of the
best performers.”  The weakened currency will help exporters and raise the
value of remittances from the more than 9 million Filipinos
working abroad.  Jollibee Foods Corp. (JFC) , the largest Philippine
fast-food operator, expects the decline in the currency to boost
revenues from its network of international stores, Vice
President Dennis Flores said in a July 3 interview.  The Philippine benchmark stock index has risen more than 15
percent this year. It rose to a record on May 15.  Slowing China  With China’s  economy  slowing for a second straight quarter
and the International Monetary Fund this month cutting its
global growth forecasts, policy makers in the region are facing
pressure to aid expansion while balancing the need to stabilize
financial markets.  India  raised two rates to support its
currency, while  South Korea  has pledged to increase state
spending.  Philippine growth is driven largely by domestic demand and
investment, and so the country is less exposed to “unfavorable
external developments,” said Tetangco, an economics graduate
from the Ateneo de Manila University, who also holds a master’s
degree in public policy and administration from the  University
of Wisconsin-Madison .  Even if Chinese growth slowed to 6 percent from a 7.5
percent expansion in the second quarter from a year earlier,
that would not have a significant impact on the Philippine
economy, Tetangco said. Trade with Asean would “offset any
reduction with China,” he said.  Fastest Expansion  China was the Philippines’s third-biggest export market in
2012, with shipments totaling $6.16 billion.  “If there’s a slowdown and it is not a hard landing, the
impact on Philippines will not be significant,” Tetangco said.
“It depends how fast that happens. There’s that risk.”  Gross domestic product  in the Philippines increased 7.8
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, the fastest
expansion among 17 Asia-Pacific economies tracked by Bloomberg.
Still, unemployment rose to 7.5 percent in the three months
through April, the highest level in three years.  The Philippines draws the least amount of foreign direct
investment among its Southeast Asian peers, World Bank data
show. The nation received $2.8 billion of FDI in 2012, compared
with $8.6 billion for  Thailand , according to the bank.  President  Benigno Aquino , who won control of Congress in
May elections, has pledged to accelerate reforms needed to
ensure the nation’s economic revival is sustained. He asked
lawmakers last week to improve governance and amend laws on tax
breaks for investors in a bid to boost business competitiveness.  IMF Adviser  Aquino is increasing spending to a record in 2013 and
seeking more than $17 billion of investments in highways and
airports.  “Infrastructure is one area where we clearly need
improvement,” said Tetangco, who was first appointed by
President  Gloria Arroyo  in July 2005 and then re-appointed by
Aquino for a second six-year term that began in July 2011.  Tetangco began working at the central bank in 1974 and
later was appointed as one of three deputy governors. He served
as alternate executive director of the  International Monetary
Fund  in  Washington , D.C. from 1992 to 1994, according to his
central bank resume.  Investment-Grade Scores  He said it was “hard to say” whether the bank would
change the rate on special deposit accounts. Tetangco has cut
the rate three times this year and taken other measures to limit
investor access to the facility.  The Philippines won its first investment-grade scores from
 Fitch Ratings  and  Standard & Poor’s  earlier this year. Moody’s
Investors Service, which ranks the nation a step below, last
week said it is reviewing the rating for an upgrade. The
Philippines may win more upgrades from Fitch and S&P before
Aquino steps down in 2016, Tetangco said.  “It’s possible, because what they’ve been saying is that
we have to demonstrate sustainability of the economic growth,”
he said. “We’re in the position to do exactly that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  