-- EU Faces Basel Bank Capital Scrutiny as Regulators Police Rules
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-07-29T08:33:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/eu-faces-basel-bank-capital-scrutiny-as-regulators-police-rules.html
European Union bank-capital rules,
already criticized by global regulators, face another
 international  probe just months after they start to take effect
next year.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  will review how
well the EU has applied its standards, Wayne Byres, the group’s
secretary general, said in an interview. An earlier
investigation, based on a draft version of the EU plans, pointed
to loopholes and triggered a rebuttal from  Michel Barnier , the
bloc’s financial services chief.  The EU emerged bruised from last year’s process that cast
doubt on its claims to be fully in line with a global pact to
beef up banks’ defenses to avoid a repeat of the 2008 financial
crisis. While the Basel group has also indicated that the U.S.
will face a follow-up review, the chances that the EU will be
judged non-compliant are much higher, said Karen Shaw Petrou,
managing partner of Washington-based research firm Federal
Financial Analytics Inc.  “The EU will fare far less well under Basel scrutiny
because of the tremendous flexibility afforded banks” in
measuring their  capital requirements , Petrou said by e-mail.  The EU is set to phase in its version of the Basel accord
starting in January, and the rules will fully apply as of 2019.
Basel III requires banks to hold capital equivalent to at least
7 percent of their risk weighted assets, while also meeting an
indebtedness limit and liquidity requirements.  Basel Scorecard  In last year’s scorecard, published in October, the
committee concluded that the EU’s proposals lacked detail on
what can count as core capital and also said lenders were given
too much scope to label government debt as risk free, and so
escape holding capital against it.  The future impact of Basel rules on EU lenders was
underscored by data published by the  European Banking Authority 
in March. It said  EU banks  would have needed an extra 112.4
billion euros ($149 billion) in their core reserves to meet the
Basel bank capital rules had the standards been enforced in
mid-2012.  “The reviews usually take a good six months, so I would
not expect it to be completed and published before the middle of
2014,” Byres said. Regulators will follow “essentially the
same process” as in last year’s exercise, with the EU first
doing a self-assessment, and then a team of non-European
supervisors carrying out their own reviews, he said.  ‘Corrosive Forces’  The reviews are carried out by teams of regulators, who
make on-site visits to government agencies and gather data from
banks. Stefan Ingves, the Basel committee’s chairman, has said
that the process is needed to tackle “the corrosive forces of
short memories and supervisory complacency.”  The Basel committee, which brings together regulators from
27 nations including the U.S., U.K. and  China , has said that it
will carry out peer reviews into how all its members adopt Basel
III, in order to flag potential divergencies from the
international plans.  Of the reviews completed  so far , the committee has found
 Japan ,  Singapore  and  Switzerland ’s measures to be in general
compliance with the Basel standards.  “In all jurisdictions, you can find lots of areas where
particular words aren’t identical,” Byres said. “What’s
relevant is actually whether the words make any difference in
practice. That is, how material the differences are, in the
sense of whether they can lead to materially different capital
outcomes.”  The review of the EU can start once the EBA completes work
on some technical standards needed to flesh out the bloc’s
rules, he said.  Dodd-Frank  The Basel committee’s concerns last year about the U.S.
centered on provisions in its Dodd-Frank law banning the use of
credit ratings to determine capital needs. Its warnings for the
EU were more varied.  The U.S. approach will probably be accepted by the Basel
committee “as part of overall global efforts to limit reliance
on credit ratings,” Petrou said.  While the Basel committee has no legal power to enforce
adherence to its rules, a non-compliance decision may harm the
EU’s standing with other regulators, Nicolas Veron, fellow at
the Brussels-based Bruegel research group, said in a telephone
interview. “In these global bodies, compliance is influence,”
he said.  Sharp Contract  The EU measures were published last month, after a deal on
the final version of the law was hammered out by EU Parliament
lawmakers and governments in more than eight months of talks.  “My expectation is that the review will draw a sharp
contrast between the EU on the one hand, and the rest of the
systemically important jurisdictions including the U.S. on the
other,” Veron said. “The Europeans haven’t put forward any
compelling arguments” to defend their approach.  Barnier said last year’s Basel review exercise wasn’t
“supported by rigorous evidence and a well-defined
methodology,” There is a “lack of consistency” in how
different jurisdictions have been reviewed, Barnier said at the
time.  The former French government minister has insisted that the
EU’s legislation respects Basel III’s level of ambition while
making essential tweaks to adjust for  local circumstances.   A spokesman for the European Commission didn’t have
immediate comment on next year’s exam.  The rules “respect the balance and level of ambition of
Basel III,”  the EU authority said in a statement this month on
its website. The fact the bloc is applying the rules to all
8,300 of its banks, not just the internationally active lenders
targeted by the Basel committee, along with the need to respect
existing “laws or arrangements,” necessitated some
adjustments, it said.  The Basel group “can admonish, but it can’t sanction,”
Petrou said. “The real discipline comes from whether other
nations accept EU rules, with the U.S. so far standing firm
against doing so for foreign banks doing business here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  