-- EU Regulators Seek to Police Use of CoCos in Banker Bonuses
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-07-29T16:44:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/eu-regulators-seek-to-police-use-of-cocos-in-banker-bonuses.html
Banks in the European Union face
limits on how they can use securities such as contingent
convertible bonds in bonus awards, as regulators seek to crack
down on any attempts by lenders to avoid the full force of EU
pay curbs.  The European Banking Authority published  draft rules  that
would prevent banks from offering staff dividends on contingent
capital instruments, such as CoCo bonds, that are out of step
with those available to outside investors, the agency said in an
e-mailed statement today. The measures would also require
holders of the securities to face a real risk of losses if the
bank’s performance plunges.  Securities issued as part of bonus awards “should take
account of the institutions’ long-term interests and incentivize
prudent risk-taking of staff,” the EBA said. “In this respect,
these instruments must have a sufficient maturity to cater for
deferral and retention arrangements.”  The EU this year bolstered its banker pay rules, already
among the toughest in the world, to include a ban on bonuses
more than twice as large as salaries. The updated law, set to
take effect from January, gives banks more scope to use CoCos
and other contingent capital to meet an existing EU requirement
that at least half of a bonus award must be in shares or other
non-cash instruments.  Nose Dive  CoCos are a form of fixed-income security that
automatically converts into ordinary shares if a bank’s capital
falls through a pre-determined floor. This type of bond -- along
with other contingent capital instruments such as debt whose
principal can be written down if a bank’s capital nose dives --
can mimic the clawback rules applied to cash bonus awards, by
ensuring that bankers can face losses if the company’s
performance turns out less strong than expected.  Banks have already taken nascent steps to use contingent
capital instruments in pay packages.  Switzerland ’s  UBS AG (UBSN)  paid
out 500 million francs ($537 million) of its 2012 bonus pool in
bonds that can be written off if the firm gets into financial
difficulties. This follows a similar move by  Barclays Plc (BARC)  when
it deferred part of its 2010 bonus pool for senior employees
over three years under a plan that pays only if the core Tier 1
ratio, a measure of financial strength, is at least 7 percent.  The EU legislation requires the EBA to define rules of the
road to prevent such instruments being used in a way that
undermines the bonus curbs.  Contingent Capital  The EBA guidance may spur the use the contingent capital in
pay awards, as banks now have a clearer idea of what is
permissible, Alex Beidas, an employee-incentives specialist at
law firm Linklaters LLP, said in an e-mail.  “Although shares are likely to remain a popular method of
paying staff, we are now likely to see more diversification
including a move to offering employees debt which is written
down or converted to equity in the event of a crisis,” she
said.  The EBA’s “concentration on limiting bonus or performance-based remuneration raises the likelihood of both higher base
salaries and yet more inventive ways to pay key staff,”  Richard Reid , a researcher at the  University of Dundee  in  Scotland , said
in an e-mail. “Neither of these is a good thing from the
perspective of stability.”  Outside Investors  The draft EBA rules include minimum capital levels at which
writedowns, or conversions of the debt into equity, must happen,
in order to ensure that the risk of losses is real.  They also stipulate that banks must sell at least 60
percent of a particular security to outside investors, or face
caps on the dividends they can offer when the security is used
in staff-pay packages. The cap would be set at 6 percentage
points above a key EU benchmark for measuring annual inflation.  The use of contingent capital in pay awards “should not
create undue advantages for staff, which could be understood as
a circumvention” of the EU banker bonus rules, the EBA said.  EU rules cover categories of staff identified by the bloc’s
regulations as material risk takers.  The EBA said it would seek views on the plans until Oct.
29, and hold a hearing on Oct. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  