-- European Business-Jet Trips Rebound as Manager Confidence Gains
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-07-29T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/european-business-jet-trips-rebound-as-manager-confidence-gains.html
European executives are taking more
private-jet trips to chase growth prospects, adding to signs of
a rebound in business confidence after years of decline.  Business-jet flights in European Union states reached
almost 62,000 last month, the most this year and 9 percent more
than in May, the Brussels-based European Business Aviation
Association. Among growing countries were Germany and  Austria ,
as well as Greece and Malta, the group said.  “We see a slight recovery,” said Thomas Flohr, chairman
of VistaJet Holding SA, a Swiss business-jet company. “The 24/7
crisis talk is behind us.”  Private-plane bookings are a barometer for business
confidence, as growing demand indicates a greater willingness to
explore remote regions for possible expansion, Flohr said. The
industry is beginning to emerge from years of decline that began
in 2008 after the fall of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the
debt crisis that engulfed much of  Europe .  “We are moving to slight optimism,” European Business
Aviation Association President Brian Humphries said by
telephone. “The top end is definitely picking up.”  VistaJet competitor NetJets, a unit of  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A) , said in May that the U.S. was recovering while Europe
remained challenging.  Air Partner (AIP) , a Crawley, England-based
broker of business-jet charters, said on July 16 that full-year
earnings will beat forecasts, with business in the last two
months picking up most notably.  Still Lower  Still, the number of business-aviation trips taken in
European Union countries in the last 12 months are 4.5 percent
below the prior-year period and 3.3 percent lower in the first
half than 2012 levels, data by the EBAA group shows.  Business-aviation growth remains largely focused on
 emerging markets , with  China  particularly strong, Flohr said.
The company is seeking a license to base planes in the country
and may achieve the goal this year ahead of a target of early
next year, he said.  “I see early signs of worldwide expansion of large
multinational companies with a lot of cash on the balance
sheet,” Flohr said. “There is significantly higher amount of
confidence than what I have seen six months ago.”  VistaJet has embarked on a major fleet modernization and
last month placed an order for 20  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  Challenger
350s, for delivery from August 2014 through December 2015, with
options to take 20 more. The company is reducing the number of
plane types to cut costs.  The deal comes on top of a commitment in November to
acquire 56 Global long-range private planes from the Canadian
manufacturer, with rights to take 86 more in a transaction that
could reach $7.8 billion at list price. Deliveries stretch to
about 2017, with one-third of the new jets used to replace
existing ones and the rest targeting growth, Flohr said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  