-- Teva, Momenta, Sandoz, Clorox: Intellectual Property
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-07-29T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/teva-momenta-sandoz-clorox-intellectual-property.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
may face competition to its top-selling multiple sclerosis drug
Copaxone a year earlier than analysts expected after a mixed
U.S. court ruling on the patents covering the medicine.  Four patents that expire in May 2014 were  upheld  July 26 by
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in Washington,
while other patent claims on the drug were invalidated. One of
those invalidated patents expires in September 2015.  Teva said it will appeal the decision on the 2015 patent.
The company can ask that the case be heard before all active
judges or seek review before the U.S. Supreme Court.  Copaxone, Teva’s largest branded medicine, generated $1.1
billion in sales in the first quarter for the Petach Tikva,
Israel-based company and accounted for almost a fifth of its
revenue last year. The drug, which had made up about 40 percent
of the MS market, already is facing competition from  Biogen Idec
Inc. (BIIB) ’s Tecfidera treatment, which won U.S. approval in March.  Momenta Pharmaceuticals Inc. (MNTA) , which is developing a generic
version with  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Sandoz, said in its annual report
that it’s counting on the generic Copaxone to help the company
return to profit.  Chief Executive Officer Heather Bresch of  Mylan Inc. (MYL) ,
another challenger, said Friday in a statement that the
Canonsburg, Pennsylvania-based company expects to begin sales of
generic Copaxone on May 25, 2014.  The Federal Circuit ruled that the invalidated patents
didn’t clearly outline what Teva claimed was invented. There are
ambiguities that make it unclear what molecular weights were
used to develop the product, the court ruled.  The case is Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. v. Sandoz Inc.,
2012-1567, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
( Washington ). The lower court cases are Teva Pharmaceuticals USA
Inc. v. Sandoz Inc., 08cv7611 and 09cv8824, U.S. District Court
for the Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Copyright Can Be Transferred Electronically, Court Says  U.S. copyright ownership can be transferred electronically
without a hand-written signature, a federal appellate court
said.  The case involves Metropolitan Regional Information Systems
Inc., a company that compiles real-estate listings into a fee-based, online database for brokers. MRIS, which operates what is
known as a multiple listing service, claimed that American Home
Realty Network, a competitor that aggregates real estate
information for consumers at no charge, infringed its copyrights
by using its photos.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Richmond,  Virginia ,
acknowledged in its July 17 ruling that “There is little
authority regarding the application of e-signatures to
instruments conveying copyrights.”  The court found that although the federal Copyright Act
doesn’t address whether an electronic agreement to transfer
ownership is sufficient without a written signature, the federal
Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, known
as the E-Sign Act, makes contracts binding when signed only by
electronic signature.  “To invalidate copyright transfer agreements solely
because they were made electronically would thwart the clear
congressional intent embodied in the E-Sign Act.”  L. Peter Farkas, an attorney with Farkas & Toikka in
Washington who represented American Home Realty, said in a
telephone interview that the “decision has some problems and we
are trying to figure out what to do. The court assumed things
that weren’t in the record.”  Margaret Esquenet, an attorney with Finnegan, Henderson,
Farabow, Garrett & Dunner LLP in Washington who represented
MRIS, didn’t respond to an e-mailed request for comment.  The case is Metropolitan Regional Information Systems, Inc.
v. American Home Realty Network, Inc., No. 12-02102, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit (Richmond, Virginia).  Copyright Matters Lecture Series to Hold Forum on the U.K.  The U.S. Copyright Office, as part of  its series 
“Copyright Matters” will hold a forum today in Washington at
10 a.m. The meeting, to discuss U.K. copyright law, will feature
John Alty, chief executive officer and comptroller general of
the Intellectual Property Office of the United Kingdom, as well
as Neil Feinson, director of international policy, and Adam
Williams, deputy director of international policy.  In a conversation with Register of Copyrights Maria A. Pallante and senior officials of the U.S. Copyright Office, the
panelists, according to the Copyright Office website, will
discuss current copyright policy issues facing the U.K. and the
U.S., such as orphan works, extended collective licensing, small
claims and recent efforts in both countries to update the
copyright legal system for the digital age. The free event is
open to the public.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Clorox Seeks to Block Imports of Copycat Pine-Sol From Mexico  Clorox (CLX)  filed a trademark-infringement case against  Mexico ’s
Industrias Alen SA at the U.S. International Trade Commission in
Washington on July 25.  The complaint claims that Alen is selling laundry and
cleaning products that mimic its Clorox and Pine-Sol brands.
Alen sells bleach, detergent, cleaners and disinfecting wipes
under names “Cloralex” and “Pinol” names.  The company said in a statement that it seeks “a permanent
limited exclusion order against the sale of such products.”  In its complaint, the company claims Alen’s names are
intended to increase sales in U.S. market, and as such are “an
assault on the iconic Clorox and Pine-Sol American household
brands.”  An Alen spokesman couldn’t be reached for comment on the
complaint.  For more trademark news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  