-- Ex-Charterhouse Executive Sues Owners Amid Blackmail Claims
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-07-29T08:50:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/ex-charterhouse-executive-sues-owners-amid-blackmail-claims.html
Geoff Arbuthnott, a former executive
at Charterhouse Capital Partners LLP, sued the other owners for
trying to seize his stake in the private equity firm for 5
percent of what he said it was worth.  The 17 other shareholders, including Charterhouse Chairman
James Bonnyman, valued the company at 15 million pounds in a
restructuring designed to seize Arbuthnott’s shares, he said in
documents provided at a  London  court hearing July 26. The
lawsuit features duelling allegations of corporate indiscretions
and blackmail.  The dispute came after Arbuthnott “raised concerns as to
whether Charterhouse was misusing confidential information in
making acquisitions,” he said in the documents.  Charterhouse, which manages about 8 billion euros ($10.6
billion), was formed in a  management buyout  from  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA)  in 2001. The company is trying to secure an agreement with
investors for a 12-month extension to its 4 billion euro 2009
vintage fund in order to allow it to continue investing.  Arbuthnott made “sudden demands” for 50 million pounds
for his shares and a greater portion of profits shortly after he
left the firm in 2008, Jonathan Hawker, a spokesman for
Charterhouse, said in an e-mail.  At the same meeting, Arbuthnott, who had worked at
Charterhouse for more than 20 years, “raised vague historical
allegations for the first time,” Hawker said. “These claims
were independently investigated at the time and we are confident
that these are false. We were told the allegations would go away
if we paid up. We have not and we will not.”  ‘Grossly Excessive’  Arbuthnott claims the shareholders tried to restructure the
company to lower its value when he said it was worth at least
300 million pounds. His lawyer,  Gary Milner-Moore , declined to
comment.  Nick Archer , a lawyer for the other owners, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Arbuthnott “sought to blackmail the other members of the
company into buying his shares at a grossly excessive
valuation,” using claims of improper conduct, according to
documents from the case filed by the 17 other shareholders. The
offer was fair and Arbuthnott never gave details of his
allegations, they said.  Arbuthnott resigned as an executive in 2008 after becoming
“disengaged from Charterhouse’s business” and “no longer
making the contribution, or indeed effort, of someone in his
position,” the owners said. He remained a shareholder.  The company “refused to be intimidated” by the
allegations of improper conduct, which were investigated by its
lawyers and later withdrawn by Arbuthnott without being fully
explained, the shareholders said.  A six-week trial is scheduled to take place in London
starting in October.  The case is In the matter of Charterhouse Capital Ltd.,
Between Arbuthnott v Bonnyman & ors, case no. 12-3290, U.K.  High
Court  of Justice,  Chancery Division .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  