-- Ex-Jefferies Trader Litvak Seeks Dismissal of Indictment
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-07-29T20:52:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/ex-jefferies-trader-litvak-seeks-dismissal-of-indictment.html
Former Jefferies & Co. managing
director Jesse C. Litvak, accused of defrauding customers of
more than $2 million on trades of residential mortgage-backed
securities, asked a court to dismiss his indictment.  Litvak was indicted in January on charges of  securities
fraud , fraud connected to the Troubled Asset Relief Program and
making false statements to the federal government. Alleged
victims include investment funds, among them six established by
the U.S. Treasury Department in 2009 as part of its response to
the financial crisis. Litvak, who’s also accused of defrauding
private funds, is scheduled to go on trial in February.  Prosecutors accuse Litvak of misrepresenting the asking
price of sellers of residential mortgage-backed securities to
buyers or vice versa, keeping the difference for Jefferies.  Litvak’s lawyers today asked U.S. District Judge Janet C. Hall in  New Haven ,  Connecticut , to throw out the charges, saying
in a court filing that any mark-ups were “well within industry
norms” and that the indictment “exhibits a fundamental
misunderstanding of what is material to the sophisticated
institutional investors who are the alleged victims in this
case.”  “Whether or not Jefferies received a slightly higher
percentage of the overall price would not change the merits of
the investment,” according to the filing. “From an investment
analysis perspective, the alleged misstatements were irrelevant
and therefore immaterial.”  The case is U.S. v. Litvak, 13-cr-00019, U.S. District
Court, District of Connecticut (New Haven).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York  State  Supreme Court  at
   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  