-- Express Scripts Raises 2013 Forecast for Second Time
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-07-29T20:28:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/express-scripts-raises-2013-forecast-for-second-time.html
Express Scripts Holding Co. (ESRX) , the
largest U.S. processor of prescription drug claims, raised its
forecast for a second time this year on second-quarter earnings
that topped analysts’ estimates.  Earnings excluding one-time items were $1.12 a share in the
quarter compared with the $1.10 average of 22 analysts’
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Net income  increased to $543
million, or 66 cents a share, from $149.6 million, or 18 cents,
a year earlier, the St. Louis-based company said today in a
statement.  Express Scripts, which bought competitor Medco Health
Solutions Inc. for $29 billion last year, manages drug benefits
for insurers and employers and sells drugs through its own mail-order pharmacy. Even with the acquisition,  Express Scripts  faces
aggressive competitors such as  Catamaran Corp. (CCT) , which beat the
bigger company for a contract to cover 180,000 workers at  Target
Corp (TGT)  starting in April.  “As we head toward 2014 and the introduction of insurance
exchanges, additional costly regulations, escalation of brand
drug prices and increased specialty drug utilization, our
clients face unprecedented challenges to manage the cost and
complexity of the pharmacy benefit,” George Paz, Express
Scripts’ chairman and chief executive officer, said in the
statement. “Our clinical specialization, advanced application
of the behavioral sciences, and ability to leverage actionable
data allow us to drive down costs, reduce waste and improve
health in ways no other company can.”  Future Plans  Investors have been anxious for Express Scripts to “more
clearly lay out its views” on the industry and its own
strategy, including how the company might “deploy its
substantial free  cash flow ,” analyst Thomas Gallucci of Lazard
Capital Markets in  New York  said in a July 25 note to clients.  Express Scripts warned in November that analysts’
expectations of profit growth were too ambitious, saying that it
faced pressure including the loss of members and lower drug
utilization. The company then provided a 2013 full-year profit
forecast that exceeded analysts’ lowered estimates.  Express Scripts today raised its full-year forecast
excluding one-time items to $4.26 a share to $4.34 a share, from
$4.23 to $4.33 a share projected in April.  Second-quarter sales declined to $26.4 billion, from $27.5
billion. Analysts had estimated $25.5 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  