-- Fast-Food Workers Strike for Higher Wages in U.S. Cities
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-07-29T19:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/fast-food-workers-strike-for-higher-wages-in-u-s-cities.html
Thousands of fast-food workers from
restaurants such as  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  and  Wendy’s Co. (WEN)  walked off
the job beginning today to protest for higher pay.  Employees of fast-food eateries are striking in New York
City, Chicago,  St. Louis , Detroit, Milwaukee, Kansas City,
Missouri, and Flint, Michigan, this week, organizers said in an
e-mailed statement. The workers, who also are demanding the
right to form a union without retaliation, are organized by
groups such as New York Communities for Change, Jobs with
Justice and Action Now. The Service Employees International
Union is providing money to the campaigns and helping to
organize the strikes.  American fast-food and retail workers have been striking
this year for higher wages, and the protest starting today seeks
wages of $15 an hour, 66 percent higher than the $9.02 that U.S.
fast-food cooks earn, on average. In April, employees from
McDonald’s and  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) , which owns the KFC and Taco
Bell chains, joined workers from  Macy’s Inc. (M)  and  L Brands Inc. (LTD) ’s
Victoria’s Secret chain in walking off the job in Chicago and
New York for higher pay.  “With the Occupy movement and discussion about the 1
percent, people are much more aware about the increase in
inequality,” Janet Currie, an economics and policy affairs
professor at Princeton University, in Princeton,  New Jersey ,
said during an interview. “There are a lot of people right at
the top of the distribution who are doing better than that
segment of the population has since the 1920s, and that’s
driving a lot of the income inequality.”  Occupy Movement  Occupy Wall Street , which began in 2011 in Manhattan, is a
movement against multinational corporations, large banks and the
richest 1 percent of people, according to the group’s website.
The group has helped to make Americans more aware of income
inequality as legislators debate laws about wages and benefits
for low-paid workers.  Congress last voted to raise the federal minimum wage in
2007 and President Barack Obama’s call to raise it to $9 an hour
from $7.25 has recently gone nowhere with lawmakers. Certain
states set  minimum wage  above the federal standard; minimum
hourly pay in Illinois, for example, is $8.25.  McDonald’s Chief Executive Officer  Don Thompson  said last
week that McDonald’s is an “above minimum-wage employer”
during an interview on Bloomberg TV. The world’s largest
restaurant chain, with more than 14,100 U.S. locations, will
continue to provide entry-level jobs, he said.  “The majority of McDonald’s restaurants across the country
are owned and operated by independent business men and women
where employees are paid competitive wages, and have access to
flexible schedules and quality, affordable benefits,” Ofelia
Casillas, a spokeswoman for Oak Brook, Illinois-based
McDonald’s, said in an e-mail.  Adding Jobs  The leisure and hospitality industry, which includes
restaurants, is adding jobs faster than any other sector in the
U.S. In June, the  sector  added 75,000 jobs, according to data
from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Fast-food cooks make $9.02
an hour, or about $18,760 a year, on average, according to 2012
 data  from the Washington-based agency.  Workers from  Burger King Worldwide Inc. (BKW) ,  Domino’s Pizza
Inc. (DPZ)  and Subway restaurants are also striking this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  