-- Fed QE Delay Bet by Basci Masked by Rate Increase: Turkey Credit
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c   a n d   O n u r   A n t
-- 2013-07-29T07:54:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/fed-qe-delay-bet-by-basci-masked-by-rate-increase-turkey-credit.html
Turkish central bank Governor Erdem Basci is cutting the cost of funding to lenders even as he
raises interest rates, a sign he’s betting the  Federal Reserve 
will hold off tapering stimulus, according to Odea Bank AS.  The central bank’s average cost of funding fell to 4.95
percent on July 26 from 5.17 percent on July 23, when Basci
raised the overnight lending rate, the top of his three-tiered
corridor, by 75 basis points. The reduction was in contrast to
the cost banks are paying for deposits for as long as three
months, which rose 215 basis points from May 31 to 7.75 percent,
the third-highest level among 20 major  emerging markets .  The divergence in borrowing costs may be a result of Basci
trying to support the lira and stem foreign-investment outflows,
while keeping credit flowing to banks. It could be a signal he’s
skeptical the Fed will start paring its bond-buying program as
soon as the market predicts, said Inanc Sozer, an economic-research manager at Odea, the Turkish unit of Lebanon’s Banque
Audi SAL-Audi Saradar Group.  “There’s a disconnect between the market and the central
bank on  interest rates ,” Sozer said by e-mail July 26. “It
seems the central bank thinks that the market has overpriced
rate increases and so instead of trying to bring rates closer to
markets, it’s trying to buy time. It’s trying to support growth
as much as possible.”  Weakening Lira  The lira weakened less than 0.1 percent to 1.9264 per
dollar at 10:27 a.m. in Istanbul. The central bank sold more
than $6.5 billion in foreign exchange since June 11 to defend
the lira, which reached a record-low 1.9740 on July 8.  Since last week’s rate meeting, when the central bank
raised the upper end of its rates corridor for the first time
since October 2011, Basci provided 11 billion liras ($5.7
billion) via its one-week repo rate of 4.5 percent, its lowest
lending rate. That’s more than it funded at any other rate.  The lira could be stronger but the reduction in the cost of
funding prevented that from happening, Sozer said.  Yields Rise  The yield on two-year notes was unchanged at its two-week
high of 9.4 percent, the highest among major emerging markets
after  Brazil . The yield has climbed 461 basis points from a
record low on May 17 as concern grew the Fed would scale back
stimulus measures and protest against Turkish Prime Minister
 Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s government erupted at the end May and
spread nationwide.  Portfolio outflows from bonds and equities totaled $934
million in the week to July 19, according to central bank data
released July 25. Bond outflows reached $3.4 billion and those
from equities totaled $1.54 billion since May 31, the data show.  While Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on June 19 the U.S.
central bank may reduce its monthly purchases of $85 billion of
assets later this year and phase them out by the middle of 2014,
a month later he told Congress the purchases “are by no means
on a preset course” and may be reduced more quickly or expanded
as economic conditions warrant.  Turkey ’s credit-default swaps, contracts insuring the
nation’s debt against non-payment, rose 16 basis points last
week, the biggest weekly increase in a month, to 202, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  In a written statement accompanying Turkey’s rate decision
last week, the monetary policy committee said that “additional
monetary tightening will be implemented when necessary.”  “We’ll see the average cost of lending gradually
increasing,” Ozlem Derici, chief economist at Ekspres Invest in
Istanbul, said in a phone interview on July 26. “The central
bank said during the turbulence that it will tighten lira
liquidity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
To contact the editor responsible for
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  