-- Fidessa Profit Declines as Stagnant Markets Discourage Investors
-- B y   A l e x   P a s h l e y
-- 2013-07-29T13:52:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/fidessa-profit-declines-as-stagnant-markets-discourage-investors.html
Fidessa Group Plc (FDSA) , the U.K.
developer of financial trading software, said first-half profit
declined as an markets remained stagnant and new regulatory
frameworks took longer than expected to be implemented.  Operating profit fell 5 percent to 20.8 million pounds
($31.9 million) in the six months through June while sales
declined 1 percent, the Woking, England-based company said today
in a statement. An improvement in financial market conditions
hasn’t been “sufficiently strong or sustained” for investors
to make “decisions with confidence”, it said.  Fidessa’s shares fell as much as 8.2 percent, the biggest
intraday decline since April, and were 5.1 percent lower at
1,964 pence by 2:36 p.m. in London trading.  Fidessa supplies technology to 775 brokerages and 3,600
mutual and pension funds accounting for about $1 trillion in
monthly trading activity, the company said. Lower consultancy
revenue and a slow introduction of new regulatory and compliance
frameworks such as the  Dodd-Frank Act  mean it expects little
improvement in the second half of the year, although its longer-term outlook is more optimistic.  “The headwind that we have been seeing from closures and
consolidations in the industry has reduced during the first half
and we have a strong pipeline giving an indication that
improving conditions may be starting to filter through,” Chief
Executive Officer Chris Aspinwall said in the statement.  Expansion in Fidessa’s derivatives and service-based
platforms were “developing good momentum” and new contract
wins in the U.S. and Asia, including with one large American
bank, reflected underlying progress,’’ Aspinwall said in a
telephone interview. The Americas division grew by 6 percent to
contribute 40 percent of revenue, while Europe contracted 8
percent and generated 43 percent of sales, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Pashley in London at 
 apashley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 