-- Forint Weakens 5th Day as Further Rate Cuts Seen: Budapest Mover
-- B y   M a r t o n   E d e r
-- 2013-07-29T11:18:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/forint-weakens-5th-day-as-further-rate-cuts-seen-budapest-mover.html
The forint weakened for the fifth
day, extending losses after the Hungarian central bank said it
would continue interest-rate cuts.  The currency dropped 0.3 percent to 297.93 per euro by
11:20 a.m. in Budapest, extending a decline of 0.5 percent last
week and bringing July’s depreciation to 1 percent. Yields on
the nation’s benchmark 10-year bonds rose seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 6.19 percent, set for the highest in
more than a month. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank cut its main rate for
a 12th consecutive month on July 23 to a record 4 percent.  Policy makers may continue rate cuts in increments of as
little as 10 basis points instead of 25 basis points until the
main rate falls to between 3 and 3.5 percent, Governor Gyorgy Matolcsy said last week. U.S. Federal Reserve policy makers will
start a two-day meeting tomorrow, after signals it may start
paring stimulus triggered a selloff in emerging assets.  The potential slowdown in quantitative easing is
“absolutely bad for the forint” as “interest-rate cuts go
on” in  Hungary , Gergely Palffy, a Budapest-based analyst at
Buda-Cash Brokerhaz Zrt., said by phone. “At some point,
Hungary’s risk-premium won’t be enough” and the forint may
extend declines, he said.  Hungary’s economic sentiment index fell in July from a two-year high the previous month, according to the GKI research
institute.  Hot Topic  The Fed is expected to trim its bondbuying program by $20
billion to $65 billion a month in September, according to a
Bloomberg survey. Yields on Hungary’s benchmark bonds rose six
basis points this month after surging 47 basis points in June.  The forint depreciated last week as government officials
announced plans to phase out foreign-currency mortgages. The
cabinet plans to implement the program over several years to
limit its effect on banks and the forint, Gabor Orban, a state
secretary at the  Economy Ministry , said on July 25.  “Officials are keeping the topic hot, so there could be
more announcements,” Buda-Cash’s Palffy said. “A small spark
could be enough to weaken the forint to 302-305 per euro.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marton Eder in Budapest at 
 meder4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  