-- Fracking Tied to Pennsylvania Water Woes by EPA Official
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-07-29T20:29:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/fracking-tied-to-pennsylvania-water-woes-by-epa-official.html
An Environmental Protection Agency
employee said gas drilling damaged drinking-water aquifers in a
Pennsylvania town, according to a presentation the staffer
prepared for superiors before they agreed to end deliveries of
clean water to the residents.  The previously unreleased document found that drilling
known as hydraulic fracturing or fracking, in which water, sand
and chemicals are shot underground to free trapped gas, caused
methane to leak into domestic water wells in Dimock,
Pennsylvania. The findings contradict those of  Cabot Oil and Gas
Corp. , which drilled in the town and said the explosive methane
gas was naturally occurring in domestic wells.  “Methane is released during the drilling and perhaps
during the fracking process and other gas well work,” according
to the undated power-point presentation prepared by the EPA
coordinator in Dimock, who isn’t identified, for other agency
officials. The report, obtained by Bloomberg from fracking
critics, is based on a chemical analysis of methane in wells
from 2008 through July 2012. The EPA said the findings in the
presentation were preliminary and more study is needed.  Dimock, featured in the anti-fracking film “Gasland,” has
become a symbol for opponents questioning the safety of
fracking. In 2010,  state regulators  stepped in and said Cabot’s
drilling contaminated local wells, a finding disputed by the
company. A subsequent EPA investigation said the water posed no
health risks to town residents.  ‘Follow Up’  The internal report, disclosed by the Los Angeles Times on
July 27, doesn’t necessarily contradict the EPA’s conclusion
released in July 2012 that the water in the Dimock homes was
safe to drink. The EPA had already shown elevated levels of
methane in some homes, but the agency doesn’t set a limit on
methane levels in water, as the gas doesn’t impair the smell or
taste of water. It can be explosive.  The report does show that at least one official determined
that Cabot’s work damaged the water wells.  “You would really expect the federal government to follow
up on this,”  Kate Sinding , director of the  Natural Resources
Defense Council ’s fracking defense project, said in an interview
about this report. In Dimock and two other cases, the EPA
abandoned its investigation “without a satisfactory explanation
to the people in the communities,” she said.  ‘Preliminary Evaluation’  The report doesn’t present evidence that the chemicals shot
underground leaked into shallower wells, a possibility
scientists and industry representatives say is much less likely.  The report “is a preliminary evaluation that requires
additional assessment in order to ascertain its quality and
validity,” Alisha Johnson, an EPA spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “The data and conclusions have not been peer-reviewed and
do not in any way reflect an official agency position.”  EPA will consider this information as part of its ongoing
study of fracking and drinking water, and residents were already
aware that their water contained methane, she said.  Last month, researchers from  Duke University  released a
similar analysis of the methane isotopes. They determined that
gas found in many water wells has the characteristics of the
Marcellus shale, from deep undergound and that distance from gas
wells was the most significant reason for high concentration of
gas in the water.  Wells Faulted  Scientists affiliated with Cabot released research in May
that found no connection between drilling and methane levels.  “Water quality issues that exist at isolated households in
Dimock are believed to be associated with poorly constructed
water wells that have, over time, allowed naturally occurring
contaminants to leach into drinking water,” George Stark, a
Cabot spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Gas production in  Pennsylvania  surged in the past few years
as companies expanded their use of fracking. The Marcellus Shale
is about 5,000 feet under Pennsylvania, separated by thick rock
layers from water aquifers, which are at most a few hundred feet
beneath the surface.  The surge in fracking has been accompanied by complaints
from many homeowners who say their water has been contaminated,
resulting in sick children, dead livestock and flammable tap
water. Industry groups representing companies say evidence has
failed to establish that water contamination is tied to
fracking.  The internal EPA report concludes that the causes of gas
migration could be drilling, spills or fracking. “In some cases
the aquifers recover (under a year) but, in others cases the
damage is long term (greater than 3 years),” the report says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  