-- Frenkel Withdraws Candidacy for Bank of Israel Governor
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-07-29T18:55:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/frenkel-withdraws-candidacy-for-bank-of-israel-governor.html
Jacob Frenkel  withdrew his candidacy
to retake the job of  Bank of Israel  governor, saying he suffered
an “avalanche of abuse” since Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  nominated him last month.  Netanyahu and Finance Minister Yair Lapid said they planned
to name another candidate in the “coming days,” according to a
text message sent to reporters. Frenkel’s candidacy hit a bump
after the Haaretz newspaper reported he had left a Hong Kong
duty-free shop without paying for an item, an incident that the
former Bank of  Israel  Governor said was a misunderstanding.  Frenkel, who was due to replace  Stanley Fischer  as
governor, said by phone that he took the decision after the
atmosphere surrounding his nomination became “too poisonous.”  His decision is a setback to Netanyahu’s efforts to appoint
a replacement to Fischer with international credentials to lead
the central bank. Frenkel’s career trajectory has taken him from
the halls of the  University of Chicago  to the research files of
the  International Monetary Fund  to the boardrooms of JPMorgan
Chase & Co. His decision to withdraw is a “big miss” for
Israel, Lapid said in a statement.  “Netanyahu and Lapid both have called me to try to
dissuade me, to stay a little longer and all the rest,” said
Frenkel, 70, who served as governor between 1991 to 2000. “From
day one, I thought I should let somebody else do it. I allowed
my arm to be twisted. But if it’s not fun, why do it at this
stage of my life?”  ‘Fischer’s Policies’  Ori Greenfeld, head of macroeconomics at Psagot Investment
House, said the decision didn’t come as a surprise.  “Frenkel’s problems have been going on for weeks so it’s
not much of a shock that he’s dropping out,” Greenfeld said in
a telephone interview. “For now Flug’s in charge and it seems
clear that she’s going to continue with Fischer’s policies,” he
said, referring to acting governor Karnit Flug.  In her first meeting in charge of the bank’s monetary
policy panel, Flug kept Israel’s benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 1.25 percent today. The central bank said that
indicators suggest “continued growth of economic activity at
the relatively moderate pace of the past two years, which eased
concerns of an additional slowdown.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  