-- General Growth to Sell Its Stakes in Brazil’s Aliansce
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-07-29T22:47:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/general-growth-to-sell-its-stakes-in-brazil-s-aliansce.html
General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP) , the
second-largest U.S. shopping mall owner, agreed to sell its
stakes in Brazil’s  Aliansce Shopping Centers SA (ALSC3)  to two buyers
for about $690 million.  Canada Pension Plan Investment Board is buying a 27.6
percent stake in the Brazilian retail landlord and developer for
about $480 million, Toronto-based CPPIB said today in a
statement. Rique Empreendimentos e Participacoes Ltda is buying
General Growth’s remaining stake, according to a statement by
the Chicago-based company. General Growth didn’t disclose the
dollar value of the individual transactions.  Two General Growth entities own about 40 percent of
Aliansce combined, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The
U.S. company in October bought a 14 percent stake in Aliansce
from Pershing Square Capital Management LP for $195.2 million.  Aliansce, based in  Rio de Janeiro , owns 17 shopping centers
and two development projects around the country. Formed in 2004,
the company owns or manages properties totaling more than
800,000 square meters (8.6 million square feet). The assets are
located in areas including Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Salvador,
Belem and  Belo Horizonte .  General Growth expects the sales of its stakes to be
completed in the third quarter. A spokesman,  David Keating ,
declined to comment on the deals. The company is the biggest
U.S. mall owner after Indianapolis-based  Simon Property Group
Inc. (SPG)   CPPIB’s purchase gives it assets in the economically
dominant Southeast and fast-growing Northeast regions of Brazil,
said Peter Ballon, vice president and head of Americas real
estate investments for CPPIB. The company has stakes in
Brazilian real estate valued at more than C$900 million ($877
million), including retail, office and warehouse properties.  CPPIB plans to buy more real estate in Brazil in
partnership with local companies, Ballon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  