-- German Inflation Unexpectedly Remained Unchanged in July
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-07-30T16:14:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/german-inflation-seen-slowing-for-first-time-since-april.html
(Corrects to show non-harmonized inflation accelerated in
sixth paragraph.)  German inflation unexpectedly
remained unchanged in July at the highest level in five months.  Germany ’s  consumer price index , calculated using a
harmonized European Union method, rose 1.9 percent from a year
ago, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. That
exceeds economists’ forecasts for a slowdown to 1.8 percent,
according to the median of 24 estimates in a Bloomberg News
 survey . Prices increased 0.4 percent from June.  “Prices rose a bit more than expected but overall,
everything is still under control,” said Heinrich Bayer, an
economist at  Deutsche Postbank AG (DPB)  in Bonn. “The increase is
typical for the season, if you keep travel costs in mind.
Overall, the price climate is rather calm, without any drivers,
except food prices.”  Food-price inflation accelerated to 5.7 percent in July
from 5.4 percent in June, the statistics office said. Energy
costs rose 2.9 percent from a year earlier, down from 3 percent
in June.  The Bundesbank forecasts German inflation will average 1.6
percent this year and 1.5 percent in 2014. The Frankfurt-based
central bank reduced its 2013 growth projection for Germany last
month to 0.3 percent from the 0.4 percent it predicted in
December, citing a worse-than-expected first quarter and warned
that  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis still poses risks to the
economic recovery.  Euro-Area Inflation  German non-harmonized inflation accelerated to 1.9 percent
in July from 1.8 percent, with prices rising 0.5 percent from
June.  Consumer price gains  in the 17-nation euro area accelerated
to 1.6 percent in June from 1.4 percent the previous month and
1.2 percent in April as energy prices rebounded, data from the
European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg showed July 16.
Data for this month will be published on July 31. The  European
Central Bank  last month cut its 2013 inflation forecast for the
region to 1.4 percent from 1.6 percent and left the 2014
estimate unchanged at 1.3 percent.  Of 63 economists in a  Bloomberg News survey , 62 expect the
ECB to keep its benchmark  interest rate  at a record low of 0.5
percent when policy makers meet this week in  Frankfurt . ECB
President  Mario Draghi  pledged on July 4 to keep rates low for
an “extended period of time” as the currency bloc tries to
emerge from its longest-ever recession. The economy  shrank  for a
sixth quarter in the first three months of this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  