-- Goldman Markets First U.S. Bank Bond Sale in Australia Since May
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2013-07-29T03:53:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/goldman-markets-first-u-s-bank-bond-sale-in-australia-since-may.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is
marketing bonds in Australia, the first such offering by a U.S.
bank in 2 1/2 months.  The Wall Street lender that generates most of its revenue
from trading is offering five-year Australian dollar-denominated
notes at a yield of about 170 basis points more than swaps,
spokeswoman Hayley Morris said. Goldman Sachs last sold similar
debt in November, when it priced A$600 million ($557 million) of
bonds with the same tenor at a 195 basis-point spread, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bank of America Corp. was the most recent U.S. lender to
issue bonds in Australia, selling A$850 million of 2018 notes on
May 14, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Following
record debt sales in May, issuance in the South Pacific nation
dropped to the least since December 2011 last month as concern
the Federal Reserve will reduce stimulus roiled global markets.  The average spread for financial-company bonds in  Australia 
spiked to as high as 130 basis points more than swaps on July 2
before narrowing to 115 on July 26, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data show. While the premium is nearing its level
before Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke spoke about tapering at his
June 19 news conference, issuance has remained muted and July is
the second-slowest month this year.  Goldman Sachs holds the seventh-highest  credit rating  at
Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s. Bank of America
carries the same A- ranking as Goldman Sachs at S&P and is
graded two levels lower at Moody’s. The 5-1/4 year paper it sold
in May was priced at a spread of 190 basis points.  The current Goldman Sachs transaction is being managed by
the lender itself, Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.,
National Australia Bank Ltd. and Royal Bank of Canada, according
to a person familiar with the matter, who asked not to be
identified because the terms aren’t set. The notes are expected
to price tomorrow, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  