-- Greece Must Sell Eurobank to International Investor, EU Says
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2013-07-29T14:32:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/greece-must-sell-eurobank-to-international-investor-eu-says.html
Greece  must sell a “substantial
share” in  Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB)  to a strategic international
investor by the end of March to shore up its banking sector, the
European Commission said.  Greece is reviewing its bank industry to qualify for future
payments under its 240 billion-euro ($318 billion) bailout from
the euro area and  International Monetary Fund , the European
Union’s Brussels-based executive arm said in a report today. The
rate of non-performing loans reached 29 percent at the end of
the first quarter, according to the report.  “The banking sector faces a challenging macroeconomic
environment and a perceptible deterioration in the repayment
culture,” the commission said in the report. “It is of the
utmost importance to enhance the management of distressed assets
in banks and strengthen incentives for repayment culture.”  The four biggest Greek banks finished their
recapitalization in June after their solvency was shredded by
last year’s sovereign debt restructuring and the quality of
their loan portfolios deteriorated amid the country’s six-year
recession. The country’s bailout earmarked 50 billion euros for
the capital injection. Only Eurobank failed to meet a
requirement to raise 10 percent of capital needs from private
investors or cede management control to the state-run Hellenic
Financial Stability Fund.  National Bank of Greece SA ,  Piraeus Bank SA (TPEIR) , Eurobank and
Alpha Bank SA will all undergo new stress tests to determine
whether the capital injection has sufficiently strengthened
their solvency.  Funds left over from the 50 billion euros after
recapitalizing the four banks and resolving smaller lenders will
be needed to backstop the new stress tests, which will be
completed this year, according to the commission report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  