-- Gunvor, GE Capital in $299 Million Funding-Receivables Deal
-- B y   A n d y   H o f f m a n
-- 2013-07-29T17:18:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/gunvor-ge-capital-agree-299-million-funding-receivables-deal.html
Gunvor Group Ltd., an oil trader co-owned by billionaire  Gennady Timchenko , agreed to a 225 million-euro ($299 million) deal to sell receivables to GE Capital that
will be used to fund the company’s German refining business.  “We put a lot of emphasis on our financing policy to widen
our funding sources as much as possible, especially outside the
usual banks we are working with,” Mathieu Coolen, Gunvor’s head
of structured finance, said today in an interview from Geneva.  The transaction is part of a wider strategy being employed
by Gunvor and other commodity traders to diversify trade finance
sources beyond traditional banks. Gunvor, Cyprus-registered and
with major trading operations in Geneva, sold $500 million of
five-year bonds in May, up from an initial $300 million plan.  Selling receivables to a third-party is known as factoring
and the deal with  GE Capital  represents the largest single
receivables finance program in  Germany , both companies said in
separate statements. Gunvor was founded in 2000 to trade Russian
crude and is among the five-largest oil traders in the world.  Factoring deals, common elsewhere, aren’t usually employed
by commodity trading houses, which require large amounts of
capital to fund operations. “To the best of our knowledge, this
is the first of its kind in the trading industry,” Coolen said.  The GE Capital deal will reduce Gunvor’s need for trade
financing for its German operations by 33 percent to 50 percent,
he said by phone. Traditional bank financing will still provide
most of Gunvor’s total capital requirements, said Coolen.  Financing Models  The company is considering at least two other non-bank
financing models in addition to corporate bonds and factoring,
he said, without giving details of those plans.  Gunvor bought two refineries in 2012 in Antwerp,  Belgium ,
and Ingolstadt, Germany. Founder and Chief Executive Officer
Torbjorn Tornqvist said in January that Gunvor planned to build
more refineries and was seeking investments outside of  Russia .  Mercuria Energy Trading SA, a Geneva-based oil trader, also
plans to diversify beyond traditional bank financing, Benoit
Lioud, a spokesman for the company, said in an interview.  “It is important to diversify our financing tools,” said
Lioud. “It is also reflective of the changing commodity world
as well. It is important to have flexibility in financing
through various sources.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Hoffman in Geneva at 
 ahoffman31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  