-- Ibovespa Futures Decline as China Dims Brazilian Export Outlook
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-07-29T12:37:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/ibovespa-futures-decline-as-china-dims-brazilian-export-outlook.html
Ibovespa  futures  dropped, a sign the
stock gauge may snap a two-day rally, as  China  began a
nationwide review of government borrowing amid concern bad debts
may curb growth in  Brazil ’s top trading partner.  Real-estate developer  Multiplan Empreendimentos
Imobiliarios SA (MULT3)  may move after posting second-quarter earnings
that trailed analysts’ estimates.  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas
Gerais SA  may be active after Banco Itau BBA SA raised its
recommendation on the steelmaker to the equivalent of buy.  Ibovespa futures contracts expiring in August fell 0.6
percent to 49,160 at 9:27 a.m. in Sao Paulo. The real slid 0.1
percent to 2.2580 per dollar. China’s State Council ordered the
debt review, the National Audit Office said in a statement
yesterday. The office suspended other projects for this
“urgent” work requested on July 26 and will send staff to
provinces and cities this week, People’s Daily reported
yesterday on its website, citing sources it didn’t identify.  “We expect Brazilian equities to trade lower,” Banco
Bradesco SA’s economic team wrote in a research note e-mailed to
clients today, citing concern about the impact bad debts may
have on China’s financial system.  The Ibovespa slumped 19 percent this year through July 26,
wiping out $222 billion from the  value  of Brazilian stocks,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Brazil’s benchmark
equity gauge trades at 12.4 times analysts’  earnings estimates 
for the next four quarters, compared with 10.4 for the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index of 21 developing nations’ equities.  Trading volume for stocks in  Sao Paulo  was 5.04 billion
reais on July 26, which compares with a daily average of
.68 billion reais this year through July 25, according to data
 compiled  by the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  