-- Michael Dell Says Bid Is His ‘Best and Final Offer’: Interview
-- B y   D a v i d   C a r e y
-- 2013-07-29T00:03:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/michael-dell-says-bid-is-his-best-and-final-offer-interview.html
Michael Dell , who along with Silver
Lake Management LLC is fighting to win shareholder approval of
their $24.6 billion buyout offer for Dell Inc., agreed to an
interview by e-mail. He discussed the method for counting
shareholder votes, the opposition to the deal by Carl Icahn and
his plans for the company he founded. Shareholders are scheduled
to vote on Aug. 2. This is a complete transcript of the
questions and his replies.  Question: Philosophically, what does this battle mean to
you? Do you see yourself fighting to preserve your legacy? What
outcome for Dell Inc. do you fear the most?  Michael Dell: I founded the company, and I care deeply
about the company and our employees, customers and partners. My
focus is on doing what is right for the company, and I believe
that taking Dell private is the right thing to do. Others have
suggested steps such as leveraged recapitalizations and sales of
assets or businesses that I believe would be destructive to the
company and that I will oppose.  Question: Has the way the whole drama has unfolded
surprised you? Has the closeness of the vote disappointed you?  Dell: Although I believe that taking Dell private is the
right thing to do, I respect the views of shareholders like
Southeastern, who would be willing to accept the significant
risks and challenges of my effort to transform the company. In
contrast, I believe that  Carl Icahn , who was not a shareholder
at any time before we announced the deal, simply saw an
opportunity based on the voting standard in our contract to buy
into the company and organize a blocking position with a
minority of the company’s shares. Based on the number of shares
currently voting on the deal, it only takes about 23 percent of
the outstanding shares to block the transaction. That’s the part
of this that I find disappointing, and that’s why we’ve
requested that the standard be changed to allow the will of the
majority of the unaffiliated shares voting on the transaction to
control the outcome.  Question: You raised your bid by only 10 cents -- a token
amount. You also made the new offer contingent on changing the
rule to count absentee votes as “no” votes. How did this two-part proposal come about? Whose idea was it? Did you consider
other alternatives?  Dell: Our proposed increase to $13.75 per share represents
an additional $150 million to the unaffiliated shareholders,
which I think is substantial. Particularly given that, after
months of looking, no other party was willing to pay more than
$13.65 per share. Separately, we requested a change in the
voting standard because, as events developed, it had become
clear that the original standard was permitting a minority of
the unaffiliated shares to block a transaction that the majority
of the unaffiliated shares voting on the transaction wanted to
accept. In my view, the voting standard we have proposed is the
most fair standard regardless of the price. The outcome should
be decided by the unaffiliated shares that vote, not by shares
that don’t vote. But we ultimately decided that it was
appropriate to put more on the table in connection with asking
for this change.  Question: When the terms of the merger were negotiated, you
agreed that a majority of Dell shareholders, not counting
yourself, need to agree to take the company private. Under your
proposed rules change, a minority of the unaffiliated shares
could sign off on this. Is that the best way to represent a
shareholder democracy?  Dell: The best way to represent a shareholder democracy is
to allow the majority of the unaffiliated shares that vote for
or against the transaction to control the outcome. Shareholder
democracy certainly is not served if a minority of the
unaffiliated shares voting on the transaction can deprive the
majority of the unaffiliated shares voting on the transaction of
an offer they want to accept. Comparing it to our last
presidential election, I expect no one would suggest that
democracy would be served by counting all the registered voters
who didn’t vote in the election as votes for  Mitt Romney . If we
did that, Mr. Romney would have won the election in a landslide.
With the benefit of hindsight, I believe it is clear that the
voting standard in our contract does not make sense. It provided
the opportunity for someone who had never been a shareholder of
our company to come in and organize a minority blocking group,
even though a majority of the unaffiliated shares voting on the
transaction would like to accept it. As I have said before, so
long as the majority of the unaffiliated shares voting on the
transaction get to make this decision, I am at peace either way
and I will honor their decision.  Question: Do you worry or realize you are asking the board
members for a voting change that could open them up to more
liability and more judicial scrutiny? (So some legal experts
tell us.)  Dell: The separate vote of a majority of the unaffiliated
shares is not legally required. It was a voluntary standard that
was intended to protect the interests of the unaffiliated
shareholders. But as the facts have developed, it is doing just
the opposite, allowing a minority of the unaffiliated shares
voting on the transaction to deprive the majority of the
unaffiliated shares voting on the transaction of the $13.65 per
share (now $13.75 per share) that they want to accept. The
decision to reset this standard is entirely up to the business
judgment of the board. I understand that changing the standard
to allow a majority of the unaffiliated shares voting on the
transaction to control the outcome, and to prevent a minority of
the unaffiliated shares voting on the transaction from defeating
the will of the majority, will not expose board members to any
liability or increased judicial scrutiny.  Question: What will you do between now and Aug. 2? Are you
in touch with the special committee of the board? Will you
continue meeting key investors? Can you say whom you will meet
with and in what cities?  Dell: I am always available to talk with the members of the
special committee and with any of the members of the board, and
will be in touch with them as appropriate. I will also continue
to talk with investors as appropriate.  Question: We heard that the special committee may not agree
to the rule change unless you raise your offer to $14 a share.
What would you do in that case? Could you raise your offer again
-- or is $13.75 in fact your best and final offer?  Dell: As we stated clearly in our letter, this is our best
and final offer.  Question: Do you think a change in the record date could be
enough to get enough votes for you to prevail? What will it take
to get you over the hump?  Dell: I believe that the majority of the unaffiliated
shares voting on the transaction should control the outcome, and
that the minority of the unaffiliated shares voting on the
transaction should not be able to override the will of the
majority. In connection with our proposed change in the voting
standard, we also believe it is appropriate to reset the record
date, which will reset the playing field and give all of our
current shareholders plenty of time to consider whether they
want to accept our offer and then make their decision. But a
change in the record date without a change in the voting
standard does not address the central problem that, as things
now stand, a minority of the unaffiliated shares voting on the
transaction is able to override the will of the majority.  Question: Icahn has derided your management of Dell and
accused you and Silver Lake of trying to steal the company. What
is your assessment of him? What do you think his real agenda is?
And how well -- or poorly -- would you say that you have played
your hand? Do you wish you had played things differently?  Dell: The tone and tenor of Mr. Icahn’s tweets and other
statements speak for themselves and I have no desire to respond
in kind. As I have said before, I think the steps Mr. Icahn has
suggested would be destructive to the company and I will not
support them. I do not view this as a game, so I do not think in
terms of how I have “played my hand” or how anyone else has
played theirs. The real problem, as events have unfolded, is
that the voting standard in our contract gave Mr. Icahn, who had
never been a Dell shareholder before we announced our deal, the
opportunity to come in and organize a blocking group
representing a minority of the company’s shares. That’s the
problem we’re trying to address by asking for the voting
standard to be reset so that the will of the majority of the
unaffiliated shares voting on the transaction can be honored.  Question: What will you do if (1) the deal is voted down,
and (2) Icahn wins a proxy fight and Icahn undertakes the
buyback? Would you tender your shares? What sort of a situation
would that create?  Dell: I do not believe the leveraged recapitalization that
Mr. Icahn has suggested will ever occur, so I’d rather not
speculate on that hypothetical. I will point out, however, that
if it did occur and I did not tender my shares, I would end up
owning about 42 percent of the company.  Question: Assuming you prevail, what are the first things
you’ll invest in (or pare back on) once your company is private?
You’ve talked publicly about expanding the PC business in  China ,
surpassing HP in servers, and bulking up on sales staff. More
specifically, what’s your plan of attack?  Dell: Our plans for the company are described in the proxy
statement. These will include significant additional investments
to extend end-to-end IT solutions capabilities, expand sales
coverage, compete in  emerging markets , invest for growth in the
PC and tablet business, and simplify and enhance the customer
experience.  Question: Could  Dell Inc. (DELL)  not pursue these strategies as a
public company? What would staying public mean for your company?  Dell: We have been trying to pursue a number of these
strategies as a public company. But I believe we are rate-limited as a public company, given the need to take into account
the impact of anything we do on our public stock price and the
effect that could have on the company and our employees and
customers. I am seeking to take Dell private because I think
it’s the right thing for the company. Particularly given where
we are today, I believe the challenges we would face as a public
company, including a potential proxy fight, would be
significant. But if the deal does not go through, I plan to stay
and continue to do my best to make the company successful.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Carey in  New York  at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Edelman at 
 ledelman3@bloomberg.net  