-- Michigan Attorney General to Join Detroit Bankruptcy
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-07-29T17:12:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/michigan-attorney-general-to-join-detroit-bankruptcy.html
Michigan ’s attorney general joined
the  Detroit  bankruptcy case, two days after announcing he would
represent retired city workers by seeking to enforce a clause in
the state constitution that shields pensions from cuts.  The filing today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Detroit by
Attorney General Bill Schuette didn’t indicate whether he was
seeking to supplant the private lawyers already hired by the
city’s pension systems, to represent a proposed committee of
retired city workers or to act in some other capacity.  Today’s move puts Schuette, 59, on both sides of the debate
over Detroit’s $18 billion bankruptcy. He has already gone to a
state appeals court on behalf of Governor  Rick Snyder , a fellow
Republican, to defend the bankruptcy filing, which the governor
authorized on July 18.  Schuette asked a state appeals court to put on hold a lower
court’s July 19 ruling that Detroit’s Chapter 9 filing violated
the Michigan Constitution, which says public pension benefits
are a contractual obligation that can’t be diminished.  The attorney general said on July 27 that he would join the
dozens of lawyers representing city workers, retirees,
bondholders and other creditors that are working on the case.  “I will defend the rights of Michigan citizens and defend
the constitution of the state of Michigan,” he said in a
statement.  Schuette went on to say that he will continue to
“aggressively represent” Snyder, who was sued by city pension
officials that sought to prevent the bankruptcy.  Joy Yearout, Schuette’s spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a call for comment.  The case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Detroit at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  