-- Mideast Talks Restarting as Kerry Calls for Compromise
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s   a n d   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2013-07-29T17:04:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/mideast-talks-restarting-as-kerry-calls-for-compromise.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
said that reaching “reasonable compromises” between Israelis
and Palestinians in peace talks that open today will be
difficult, while “the consequences of not trying could be
worse.”  After months of prodding by Kerry, negotiators from the two
sides plan to sit down with him over dinner at the State
Department in  Washington  tonight, two decades after Israelis and
Palestinians signed their historic first accord and three years
after negotiations last broke down.  “Many difficult choices lie ahead for the negotiators and
for the leaders as we seek reasonable compromises on tough,
complicated, emotional and symbolic issues,” Kerry said today
at the State Department, where he named veteran diplomat  Martin Indyk  as special envoy for the talks. “I think reasonable
compromises has to be a keystone of all of this effort.”  Kerry is seeking to move beyond a legacy of inconclusive
past U.S. efforts, the lull in direct peace talks and little
public attention to the issue by President  Barack Obama  during
his first term.  “It’s unclear what private assurances he’s gotten, or what
strategy he has to blow this rather modest spark into a flame,”
 Jon Alterman , who heads the Mideast program at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in Washington, said today in
an e-mailed comment. “In the current environment, Israeli and
Palestinian publics both say they support peace, but neither
thinks it is remotely possible to get a deal from the other
side.”  Obama said in a statement today that “the most difficult
work of these negotiations is ahead.”  Obama’s Comment  “I am hopeful that both the Israelis and Palestinians will
approach these talks in good faith and with sustained focus and
determination,” Obama said. “The  United States  stands ready to
support them throughout these negotiations, with the goal of
achieving two states, living side by side in peace and
security.”  Kerry announced today that Indyk, 62, who twice served as
ambassador to Israel during President  Bill Clinton ’s
administration, will become the special Mideast envoy handling
the talks. His deputy will be Frank Lowenstein, a Kerry adviser
who was chief of staff of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee
when Kerry was chairman.  Indyk’s Experience  In naming Indyk, currently vice president and director of
foreign policy at the policy research center  Brookings
Institution  in Washington, Kerry chose an experienced Mideast
diplomat who has dealt with Palestinian leaders as well as the
last seven Israeli prime ministers.  During the Clinton administration, Indyk became the first
Jewish U.S. ambassador to Israel, serving from 1995 to 1997. He
served a second term there from 2000 to 2001, and had stints on
the White House National Security Council staff and as assistant
secretary of state for Near East affairs.  He gave up his Australian citizenship to became a U.S.
citizen in 1993 to join the Clinton administration. Before his
government posts, he was the founding executive director of the
Washington Institute for Near East Policy and was deputy
research director at the American Israel Public Affairs
Committee, a pro-Israel lobbying group.  Indyk has “spent most of his professional life on this
issue” so “neither side will be able to outmaneuver” him,
said  David Makovsky , director of the Washington Institute’s
Project on the Middle East  Peace Process .  Dinner Meeting  After Kerry hosts the dinner tonight with top
representatives of Palestinian President  Mahmoud Abbas  and
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , talks are scheduled
to continue tomorrow.  The initial meetings “will serve as an opportunity to
develop a procedural workplan for how the parties can proceed
with the negotiations in the coming months,”  Jen Psaki , a State
Department spokeswoman, said yesterday. The terms of
negotiations were hammered out by Kerry in months of intense
shuttle diplomacy and haven’t been disclosed.  “We want to establish a Palestinian state beside the state
of Israel, living in peace and friendship and bringing an end to
the conflict,” Israeli President  Shimon Peres  said today on a
visit to the Latvian capital of  Riga .  Netanyahu said the peace effort will last nine months. His
cabinet cleared the way to resuming talks when it voted
yesterday to approve the release 104 Palestinian prisoners, a
step long sought by Abbas.  Changing Region  Israeli Justice Minister  Tzipi Livni , who will lead her
country’s negotiating team, and fellow Israeli negotiator
Yitzhak Molcho met with United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon in  New York  today before heading to Washington.  “We are hopeful,” Livni told reporters afterward. “We
believe that this is of mutual interest for Israel, for the
Palestinians, the Arab world, the international community.”  “It’s going to be complicated, I’m sure,” she said. “But
I believe when we see our troubled region, what we can do is to
change the future of generations to come by having peace offered
between Israel and the Palestinians.”  Chief Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat welcomed Israel’s
agreement to release prisoners while saying thousands more
remain in Israeli jails and must be freed.  “We call upon Israel to seize the opportunity” created by
Kerry “in order to put an end to decades of occupation and
exile, and to start a new stage of justice, freedom and peace
for Israel,  Palestine  and the rest of the region,” Erekat said.  Oslo Accords  Negotiations are resuming almost 20 years after Israeli and
Palestinian leaders signed the Oslo peace accords in a White
House ceremony, buoying Palestinians’ hopes of winning an
independent state on land Israel captured in 1967. Instead,
talks have proceeded in fits and starts, and thousands of people
have been killed in periodic waves of violence. The plan to give
Palestinians partial sovereignty for five years has lasted for
two decades.  In the meantime, the Palestinians have ruptured into
dueling entities, one governed by the West Bank-based Abbas, the
other by Islamist Hamas militants in Gaza who do not recognize
Israel’s right to exist. Israel and the U.S. shun Hamas as a
terrorist organization. Hamas won’t take part in the talks,
which it has denounced.  Kerry has made Israeli-Palestinian peacemaking a priority,
making six trips to the region in as many months. He called
Abbas over the weekend to emphasize Obama’s support for a prompt
return to negotiations, the Palestinian Wafa news agency said.  Netanyahu swept away the last hurdle yesterday when he
overcame opposition within his cabinet to the release of jailed
Palestinians.  ‘Difficult’ Decision  “This moment isn’t easy for me, it’s not easy for the
cabinet and it is especially not easy for the grieving
families,” Netanyahu said in a text message after the vote.
“But there are times when one must make difficult decisions for
the good of the country and this is one of those moments.”  In a rare open message to Israeli citizens before the vote,
Netanyahu said upheaval in  Egypt , Syria and Iran confront Israel
with both challenges and “considerable opportunities.”  Peace talks broke down in September 2010, when Netanyahu
declined to extend a partial settlement construction freeze in
the  West Bank . Abbas refused to negotiate unless the building
was halted, saying it was designed to entrench Israel’s presence
there and was a sign of bad faith. Netanyahu said talks
shouldn’t be subject to conditions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net ;
Peter S. Green in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  