-- High-Risk Smokers Should Get Imaging Scans, Panel Says
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-07-30T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/high-risk-smokers-should-get-imaging-scans-panel-says.html
Ten million high-risk smokers aged
55 and older should get imaging scans each year to detect lung
cancer when it is small and can be treated, according to new
recommendations from the  U.S. Preventive Services Task Force .  Lung malignancies are the No. 1 cancer killer in the U.S.,
accounting for more than one in every four cancer deaths each
year. While breast and prostate malignancies are both more
common, they are less deadly, according to the  American Cancer
Society . Screening for lung tumors, done properly, could save
20,000 lives each year, said Virginia Moyer, chair of the panel.  The recommendations from the task force, an independent
medical advisory group to the government, run counter to its
other recent edicts that urge less frequent mammograms, an
earlier end to colonoscopies and the abandonment of a common
prostate cancer test. Yesterday, a panel convened by the U.S.
 National Cancer Institute  said low-risk growths in the breast,
prostate and elsewhere should no longer be identified as cancer
and screening efforts to spot them should be reduced.  “There are some cancers that sit around and don’t do
anything, and others that are so treatable it doesn’t matter if
you catch them late,” said Moyers, who is also vice president
of the American Board of Pediatrics. “There is a sweet spot
here with lung cancer. It’s a cancer that can be caught early
and there is a treatment that makes a difference.”  CT scans  aren’t for everyone. They use radiation and can
lead to the detection of lesions, such as scars, that are
ultimately harmless. Those patients still must undergo a biopsy,
which is an invasive test, and perhaps other treatments to rule
out malignancies, Moyer said. For those who are at the highest
risk for lung cancer, however, the risks outweigh the benefits.  ‘Devastating Diagnosis’  “Lung cancer is a devastating  diagnosis  for more than two
hundred thousand people each year,” she said. “Ninety percent
of patients with lung cancer die from it. It’s not been one of
those cancers that is easily treated, and we think that’s
because patients are diagnosed late, at an advanced stage.”  The CT scans are recommended for people aged 55 to 80 who
have smoked a pack a day for 30 years, or two packs a day for 15
years. They apply to those who are current smokers or have quit
within the past 15 years. Those who undergo the scans should be
in relatively good health and be able to withstand surgery and
medical treatment for cancer, should they be diagnosed.  Screening Decision  The decision on whether to screen should be tailored to
each person’s own risk factors, said Peter Bach, director of
 Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center ’s Center for Health
Policy and Outcomes.  “The benefit of screening at an individual level is both
quite small and varies greatly even among people with heavy
smoking histories,” he said. “The harms are meaningful, but at
least in the high risk group the risk-benefit payoff is probably
worthwhile,” Bach said in a telephone interview.  It’s not that the CT scans must be done or even that they
should be done, he said. Instead, it’s reasonable for doctors
and patients to have a discussion about it, he said.  Bach and his colleagues developed a  tool  that people can
use to estimate their risk of developing and dying from lung
cancer within six years, based on their history. It may help
people decide if they would benefit from screening, he said.  Screening isn’t a viable alternative to quitting smoking,
which is responsible for about 85 percent of all lung cancers in
the U.S., the  task force  said.  “Helping smokers stop smoking and protecting non-smokers
from exposure to tobacco smoke are the most effective ways to
decrease the sickness and death associated with lung cancer,”
said Michael LeFevre, the co-chair of the task force.
“Screening for lung cancer is beneficial, but it is not an
alternative to quitting smoking.”  The public can comment on the recommendations through Aug.
26. The remarks, observations and suggestions will be taken into
account as the group crafts its final recommendation.  Recommendations published in the Journal of the American
Medical Association yesterday called for reduced screening and
renaming of less-risky lesions that are currently identified as
cancer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  