-- Time Warner Cable, CBS Extend Deadline as Negotiations Continue
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-07-29T20:53:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/time-warner-cable-cbs-extend-deadline-as-negotiations-continue.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  and  CBS Corp. (CBS) 
have again pushed back a deadline for a new agreement to avoid
blacking out shows including “Under the Dome” and “60
Minutes” for about 3 million customers.  Negotiations will continue until 8 p.m. New York time
today, according to an e-mailed statement from CBS. This is the
third extension in the past week between the second-largest U.S.
cable provider and the New York-based entertainment company. The
parties are trying to settle on a retransmission fee increase
for a new long-term deal.  If the sides can’t come to an agreement, Time Warner Cable
customers in New York,  Los Angeles  and  Dallas  will lose CBS and
potentially Showtime programming. The New York-based cable
operator said CBS was asking for retransmission fees 600 percent
higher than the network’s affiliates in other markets receive
for the same programming.  Retransmission fees have become a frequent sticking point
in negotiations between pay-TV providers and broadcasters. CBS’s
retransmission revenue jumped 62 percent in its most recently
reported quarter, which ended in March, from a year earlier.
Pay-TV operators will shell out more than $3 billion in the
broadcast fees this year, according to data compiled by research
firm SNL Kagan.  CBS is the highest-rated broadcast channel, ahead of
Comcast Corp.’s NBC, Walt Disney Co.’s ABC and 21st Century Fox
Inc.’s Fox. A CBS blackout would be the first time a top
broadcaster has its programming dropped in New York, the largest
media market, since  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  shut down Fox for
two weeks in 2010.  Aereo Suggestion  The companies initially pushed back a decision deadline
from July 23 to July 25 and then again from July 25 to today.
Time Warner Cable has suggested that customers sign up with
Aereo Inc. to watch CBS if a deal isn’t struck. Aereo is a
startup service, backed by  Barry Diller , that sells access to
broadcast networks online for $8 a month without paying
retransmission fees for the right to air the programming. Aereo
is being sued by CBS.  Time Warner Cable has also suggested CBS could lose its
channel 2 slot on the operator’s menu if a deal isn’t reached.
CBS has owned that position on the broadcast dial since 1941 in
New York and 1951 in Los Angeles.  When a channel is dropped from a pay-TV service, 7 percent
of subscribers end up switching providers, while 16 percent
watch the lost channel online, according to a survey from  Park
Associates , a market research firm based in Dallas. The survey,
conducted in the third quarter of last year, looked at 2,500
households and asked residents what they did the last time they
lost a channel in a fee dispute.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  