-- IMF to Disburse 1.7 Billion Euros to Greece After Loan Review
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-07-29T20:25:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/imf-to-disburse-1-7-billion-euros-to-greece-after-loan-review.html
The International Monetary Fund’s
board approved the release of 1.72 billion euros ($2.3 billion)
to  Greece (GDBR10) , helping replenish the country’s coffers through
German elections in September that will help set the course of
Europe’s crisis response.  “The Greek authorities have continued to make commendable
progress in reducing fiscal and external imbalances,” IMF
Managing Director Christine Lagarde said in a statement today.
“However, progress on institutional and structural reforms, in
the public sector and beyond, has still not been commensurate
with the problems facing  Greece . Greater reform efforts remain
key to an economic recovery and lasting growth.”  Greece received IMF approval three days after obtaining the
release of 2.5 billion euros from euro-area governments under
their joint rescue package. One of the conditions was to push
forward with a plan to put 4,200 state employees on notice for
dismissal, which the Greek Parliament adopted last week.  With Greek 10-year bond yields six times  Germany ’s almost
four years after the  European debt crisis  flared in  Athens , the
country is still relying on its international creditors.
Greece’s financial fate has also become entwined with German
politics, as Chancellor Angela Merkel campaigns for a third term
on the promise that Germany won’t write off any of the loans
made to Greece since the debt crisis broke.  That contrasts with repeated warnings by the IMF, which has
said Greece’s debt level remains a risk to its recovery and
suggested last month that the country may require faster debt
relief from its European creditors.  Greek Debt  The Greek debt burden is almost double the average of the
17-nation euro area, according to the European Union’s
statistics office on July 22. First-quarter debt stood at 160.5
percent of gross domestic product.  Lagarde today reiterated that support from Europe to reduce
Greece’s debt to “substantially below 110 percent of GDP by
2022” is welcome.  “Their continued commitment to provide adequate financial
support to Greece during the life of the program and beyond
until the country has regained market assess, provided that
Greece complies fully with the program, remains essential,”
Lagarde said.  Separately, the fund insists on seeing a 12-month guarantee
of Greece’s financing in order to continue with its own lending,
and a 3.8 billion-euro gap is expected in 2014. In a  report  it
released last month, the fund pointed out 4.6 billion euros of
yet-to-be identified financing for the bailout.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  