-- India Rupee Snaps Three-Day Gain as Importers Seen Buying Dollar
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-07-29T05:07:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/india-rupee-snaps-three-day-gain-as-importers-seen-buying-dollar.html
India’s rupee snapped a three-day
gain on speculation local importers are stepping up dollar
purchases to pay month-end bills.  The rupee declined 0.4 percent to 59.295 per dollar as of
9:58 a.m. in Mumbai, after strengthening 0.5 percent last week,
prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg show. The currency
has lost 7.3 percent this year, the worst performance in Asia
after Japan’s yen, and touched a record low 61.2125 on July 8.  Demand for the greenback from importers will keep the
rupee’s upside limited, analysts at Edelweiss Financial Advisors
Ltd. including Mumbai-based Vinay Khattar wrote in a research
report today. The  Reserve Bank  of India has raised two  interest
rates , restricted lenders’ access to funds and curbed trades in
currency derivatives to support the rupee. The RBI will keep its
benchmark  repurchase rate  at 7.25 percent tomorrow, according to
31 of 32 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “We expect the RBI to reinforce that recent liquidity
tightening was to shore up the rupee, rather than cool the
economy,” which is growing at the slowest pace in a decade,
said  Vishnu Varathan , an economist at Mizuho Bank Ltd. in
Singapore.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, was little changed
at 11.69 percent.  Fed Tapering  Global funds have cut holdings of Indian debt by $8.9
billion since May 22, when the  Federal Reserve  signaled it could
curb asset purchases that have boosted demand for emerging-market assets. The Fed will start trimming bond purchases in
September, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.  The  International Monetary Fund  said last week that exiting
from the quantitative easing program could spur excessive
interest-rate volatility and have “adverse global
implications.” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has said it’s “way
too early to make any judgment” as to whether policy makers
will start tapering in September.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards fell 0.4 percent to 60.7
per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore non-deliverable contracts dropped 0.5 percent to 60.58. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  