-- Intel CFO Says Chipmaker Needs Mobile Product Wins
-- B y   C o r y   J o h n s o n   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-07-29T20:23:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/intel-cfo-says-chipmaker-needs-mobile-product-wins.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , whose processors run
more than 80 percent of the world’s personal computers, said the
decline in the traditional PC market will persist as consumers
shift to tablets and other mobile devices.  “What you’re seeing is a transition of the classic PC
market into these kinds of things,” Chief Financial Officer
Stacy Smith said in an interview on Bloomberg TV. “If you think
about the PC as being a classic computer that you might have
used two or three years ago, I think that device declines.”  The chipmaker, based in Santa Clara,  California , now has
chips that are designed to power tablets, smartphones, laptops
that convert into tablets, and thin notebook computers, giving
it a chance to make up for slumping PC sales and regain ground
it has lost to competitors in those new markets, Smith said.  Intel executives who had said tablets were “consumption
devices” that would be bought in addition to PCs -- not as
replacements to traditional desktops and laptops -- are now
saying the company’s growth depends on low-power chips for
portable devices.  Global PC shipments fell 10.9 percent in the second quarter
to 76 million, the fifth consecutive quarterly drop, market
researcher Gartner Inc. said earlier this month. Sales slid from
a year earlier in all regions, including a 1.4 percent drop in
the U.S.  Near Zero  Intel’s PC-chip group, its largest  division , had second-quarter sales of $8.1 billion, down 7.5 percent from a year
earlier. The company was unable to compensate for that drop with
an increase of less than 1 percent in server-chip sales, to
$2.74 billion.  The chipmaker’s market share in smartphones is “close to
zero today,” and “you would measure our share in tablets as
being some low number,” Smith said.  The company is aiming to change that by gearing its
manufacturing more to producing chips that don’t quickly drain
batteries, he said.  “We’re targeting those designs and really focused on that
with the full might of the company and the full power of our
manufacturing engine,” he said. “Intel doesn’t enter into
markets to have small amounts of share.”  The  stock  fell less than 1 percent to $23.24 at the close
in New York. It has gained 13 percent this year, compared with a
22 percent advance in the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  