-- Tisch Bets on Munis as Yields Rebound From ‘Ugly Contest’
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   M e g a n   H i c k e y
-- 2013-07-29T17:04:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/tisch-bets-on-munis-as-yields-rebound-from-ugly-contest-.html
Loews Corp. (L) , the holding company run
by  New York ’s Tisch family, is increasing bets on municipal
bonds after the securities declined last quarter.  Loews’s  CNA Financial Corp. (CNA)  insurance unit was holding
munis that cost $10.1 billion as of June 30, according to  data 
released today. That compares with $9.6 billion as of March 31.
The insurer said it increased the allocation further this month.  Loews Chief Executive Officer James Tisch is betting on
bonds less than five months after saying that yields on fixed-income securities were so low that they were competing in an
“ugly contest.” Since then, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled that the central bank may begin to taper its
stimulus efforts. That pushed yields higher, reducing the value
of bonds that Loews and other investors have on their books.  “There is, however, a silver lining to higher interest
rates, which is that CNA will have the opportunity to invest its
significant operating and investment cash flows into higher-yielding securities,” Tisch, 60, said today on a conference
call to discuss New York-based Loews’s second-quarter results.  The increase in municipal securities was fueled by bets on
tax-exempt debt at Chicago-based CNA. Holdings of the securities
cost about $6.66 billion at the end of June, compared with $6.12
billion at the end of the first quarter. Municipal bonds have
lost 4.4 percent since March 31, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data.  “Towards the end of the quarter, and more recently, we
have taken advantage of attractive yield opportunities in the
tax-exempt municipal  bond market ,” CNA Chief Financial Officer
Craig Mense said on a separate conference call today. Loews
oversees investments for the insurer.  Relative Value  Yields on benchmark munis are the highest in more than two
years, part of a broader fixed-income selloff.  Thirty-year munis with a top rating yield about 4.49
percent, the highest since May 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Similar-maturity Treasuries yield 3.65 percent. The  ratio 
of the two interest rates, a measure of relative value, is about
123 percent, near a 12-month high. As that figure rises, it
signals local debt is cheapening compared with federal debt.  The insurer, which is  90 percent-owned  by Loews, climbed
1.4 percent to $34.94 at 12:17 p.m. in New York after reporting
that second-quarter earnings gained on higher investment income.
Loews advanced 0.1 percent after saying earnings rose on results
at CNA and the holding company’s investment portfolio.  Low  interest rates  have helped Loews in some ways, Tisch
said. His company issued $1 billion in bonds in early May just
before rates rose. Half of the notes are 10-year securities that
pay a 2.63 percent coupon and the rest is 30-year debt at 4.13
percent. The company hasn’t specified its plans for the
proceeds.  “This transaction was purely opportunistic,” Tisch said.
“Like I said, I’d rather be lucky than smart. Over the years,
we have found it’s easier to raise money when you can, rather
than when you have to.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Megan Hickey in New York at 
 Mhickey18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  