-- It’s Still Henry Ford’s World
-- B y   R i c h a r d   S n o w
-- 2013-07-29T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/it-s-still-henry-ford-s-world.html
​Henry Ford was born 150 years ago,
July 30, 1863. He is remembered now for building a great many
automobiles, for saying that history was “bunk” and for a
strenuous anti-Semitic campaign that did his  Ford Motor Co. (F) 
incalculable harm (and whose effects the company has
successfully worked to ameliorate almost since the day he died,
in 1947).  But there is much more to his legacy than that -- a legacy
that takes on added resonance with the bankruptcy of Detroit,
where it was largely forged. Late in Ford’s life,  Will Rogers 
dropped his friendly folksiness to say, “It will take a hundred
years to tell whether you have helped us or hurt us. But you
certainly didn’t leave us where you found us.”  Just where that might have been was articulated by Ford
himself to a high school boy who was interviewing him. The
carmaker was speaking nostalgically about the virtues of the
farm and the one-room schoolhouse, and the boy found this pretty
stodgy. “But sir, these are different times, this is the modern
age and -- ” Ford cut him off. “Young man,” he snapped, “I
invented the modern age.”  You’ll notice he didn’t say, “I built a hell of a lot of
cars.” He was claiming authorship of the world he and the boy
inhabited, and, despite its grandiosity, his boast is hard to
gainsay. Yet the very scope of the changes he worked on American
society may make them less obvious to us: They are as ubiquitous
as the air we breathe, and thus as transparent.  Shifting Labor  Ford was born on a prosperous farmstead a few miles outside
of  Detroit . He would love the American farm all his days, save
for one thing: He detested farming. From his childhood on, he
sought ways to shift labor from humans to machines. Unlike most
farm boys, he had a strong dislike of horses, and by the time he
was in his teens, he was in thrall to the idea of a self-propelled vehicle.  When he was 17, he went into Detroit, then a vigorous young
industrial city with a thousand machine shops. Those shops were
his college, and he proved a brilliant student. He returned to
the farm only briefly, in 1888, to marry a woman named Clara
Bryant, a most fortunate choice as she proved steadfast, brave
and so convinced of her husband’s genius that he came to call
her “the believer.”  She needed to be when her husband made it clear that he was
going to spend his future making gasoline-powered vehicles. As
he said about his goal years later: “There was no demand for
the automobile. There never is for a new product.” This defies
the bromide about necessity being the mother of invention: Ford
thought it was the other way around, and who can say he’s wrong?
People didn’t know they needed an iPhone until they got their
hands on one.  He built his first car in 1896, and it ran, and he founded
a company, almost immediately withdrew from it, then bankrupted
a second one. He wasn’t ready yet to manufacture what he was
beginning to envision: a car as dependable as the $5,000
juggernauts the infant  auto industry  was turning out in the
early years of the last century, yet so inexpensive that farmers
and shop clerks could own it.  The way to do that, he said, “is to make one automobile
like another automobile, to make them all alike, to make them
come through the factory just alike -- just as one pin is like
another when it comes from a pin factory, or one match like
another when it comes from a match factory.”  When he founded his third company -- the one that would
last -- he set about finding ways to do that. The result, in
1908, was the  Model T , as ugly and dependable as a cast-iron
stove. It was an instant success, and, as its high body
negotiated the impossible roads of the day, it set about
changing the way people lived. In a few years, it broke down the
age-old isolation of rural life. “You know, Henry,” a Georgia
farmwife wrote its maker, “Your car lifted us out of the mud.
It brought joy to our lives.”  Consumerism Cycle  Of course, the Model T couldn’t remake a nation’s social
patterns without being deployed in staggering numbers. By 1912,
Ford was producing 340 cars a day, which shows impressive
organization and control, but there is a vast difference between
quantity production and mass production, and it is by inventing
the latter that Ford invented the modern age.  Ford and his lieutenants began experimenting with bringing
the work to the workers in a continuous flow. Instead of one man
doing 20 things to assemble, say, a carburetor, 20 men would do
one thing: tighten a screw or seat a valve as it rolled past
them on a conveyor belt. The results were astonishing. By the
1920s, the Ford Motor Co. was turning out a completed car every
10 seconds.  With the accelerating production came profits so great
that, in 1914,  Henry Ford  raised his workers’ base pay to $5 a
day, doubling the standard wage in a single stroke. And in doing
that, he made his employees his customers. So began a cycle of
consumerism that is with us yet, and that is the goal toward
which those production lines were moving: widening prosperity; a
growing, mobile middle class; the modern age.  Even as he became the richest man in America, Ford soured.
The second half of his life was one of increasing bitterness and
bile. He became jealous of his high lieutenants and fired them
one by one. He tormented his gifted son, Edsel, because he
didn’t think he was tough enough, when in fact Edsel would have
been Henry’s ideal successor: He understood, as the 1920s wore
on, that the car was now no longer merely a utilitarian
necessity but an object of desire. The pioneering days were
over.  Ford surely saw this, but he hated it. No inventor has ever
been more emotionally bound to his invention. To its maker, the
Model T was more than a generator of wealth; it was a moral
force. When Ford finally shut down the line after making his 15
millionth Model T, in 1927, he had waited years too long. In
1920, his company was building  half the cars  on the American
road. Those days were gone forever, and General Motors Co. was
in ascendancy.  But what Will Rogers said remains true. Even now it is too
early to fully assess Henry Ford’s contribution to the U.S., to
the world. But take one example: World War II. In his fine  book 
about the conflict, “The Storm of War,”  Andrew Roberts  writes,
“If Britain had provided the time and Russia the blood
necessary to defeat the Axis, it was America that produced the
weapons.”  It was Henry Ford who produced the weapons. That was never
his goal; he was a lifelong pacifist who once told the press
that every American soldier should have the word “murderer”
embroidered on his uniform. But without the industrial
techniques he developed 30 years earlier, the U.S. couldn’t have
done it. Over the years, those techniques would surely have come
about, but would they have been here when Hitler started
battering down the dikes of civilization?  In his best years, when he was a genuinely great man and an
inspiring leader, one of his workers described Ford’s
personality by saying “he had the magnet.” All of us are still
feeling its pull.  (Richard Snow is the author of “ I Invented the Modern Age :
The Rise of Henry Ford” and several other books.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Richard Snow at  RSnow@forbes.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 