-- Italy Crash Kills at Least 38 as Bus Plunges Into Ravine
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o   a n d   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2013-07-29T11:11:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/italy-crash-kills-at-least-36-as-bus-runs-off-bridge-into-ravine.html
At least 38 people died when a bus
plowed through a guard rail and plunged into a ravine in
southern  Italy , a police official said.  The bus was traveling downhill near Baiano, Italy -- about
40 kilometers (25 miles) from Naples -- and crashed into a line
of slow-moving traffic on a bridge at about 8:30 p.m. local time
yesterday, said the official, who asked not to be named citing
police policy. He said authorities were investigating the cause
of the crash.  “The driver must have had a technical problem of some
sort,” Transport Minister Maurizio Lupi said in an interview on
Italian television network Sky TG24. “There’s evidence he
swerved and lost control but we will have to ascertain the
causes, we don’t know right now.”  The bus then broke through a guardrail on a bridge and fell
30 meters (98 feet), according to the police. Television
stations broadcast images of the mangled wreckage at the bottom
of a ravine.  ‘Unacceptable Disaster’  Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta, speaking at an event
in  Athens , said it’s a “very sad day for Italy, a very sad
moment.” Giorgio Napolitano termed the incident “an
unacceptable disaster” that requires a “tenacious commitment
to road safety.”  Forty-eight people, including children, were on the bus
returning to Naples after a three-day trip from Talese Terme,
newspaper  Corriere della Sera  reported on its website. The 10
survivors were hospitalized and some are in critical condition,
Sky reported.  The crash scene has been cleared enough to reopen the A16
highway that connects Naples to the southern region of Apulia.  The bus crash follows last week’s train accident near
Santiago,  Spain  that killed 79 people during the culmination of
St. James festivities, the Christian religious ceremony and
popular festival that commemorates the saint known in Spanish as
Santiago.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Davis in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  