-- Ivory Coast to Clean Up Contracts as Untendered Deals Jump
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2013-07-29T11:47:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/ivory-coast-to-clean-up-contract-awards-as-untendered-deals-jump.html
Ivory Coast is attempting to clean
up the awarding of public bids, placing the regulating agency
under the oversight of President Alassane Ouattara after the
number of deals given without tenders jumped.  In the first three months of the year, 57 percent of the
amount spent in public deals was awarded without public bids,
compared with 40 percent last year, Non Karna Coulibaly, head of
the National Public Procurement Regulating Authority, said in a
July 23 interview in Abidjan, the commercial capital.  “The more direct awards of public contracts there are, the
less transparent and efficient the system is,” Coulibaly said.
“What should be an exception is the norm. It’s a wrong signal
to give to investors.”  The world’s biggest cocoa producer is trying to boost
investments as it recovers from a violent five-month crisis
sparked by a disputed presidential election in November 2010.
After contracting 4.7 percent in 2011 following the crisis,
Ivory Coast’s economy grew 9.8 percent in 2012 as the West
African nation spends on infrastructure including roads and
power generation. Expansion this year is projected at about 9
percent, according to the Finance Ministry.  Public deals were worth 415 billion CFA francs last year
($833 million), more than double the amount spent in 2011,
Olivier Kossonou, general secretary of the regulator, said. That
will rise this year, he said, without giving a figure.  The authority was created in 2009 and started operating in
2010. In the past three years, it’s ruled 62 times and had 12
public contracts worth 120 billion francs annulled, Coulibaly
said.  Procurement Department  “Until 2010, no public deals had been subject to legal
proceedings in Ivory Coast,” he said. In May, the agency was
moved to Ouattara’s office from the Ministry of Finance, where
it didn’t have “enough room to manoeuvre” as the ministry’s
public-procurement department is in charge of the government
deals, he said.  The authority dismissed as unfounded an appeal in May from
a group led by CMA CGM SA in relation to a bid won by Bollore SA
to run a second container terminal at the port in Abidjan.  Last March, the authority ruled against a decision by the
finance and transport ministries to cancel a bid won by Roissy,
France-based Groupe Europe Handling SA for a contract at the
Abidjan airport. The decision to annul the bid was unfounded,
according to a statement published on the website of the
authority.  “Is Ivory Coast credible to attract investors if we can
annul a bid without any reason?” Coulibaly said. The authority
“has sometimes faced pressure from ministers” against whom
it’s ruled, he said. “Some ministers mistakenly think our
decisions are personal matters. We don’t have a culture of
questioning a minister’s decision,” he said.  “Many people violate the procedures on the grounds of the
emergency to rebuild the country,” Coulibaly said. “But let’s
not confuse speed and haste.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  