-- Mizuho Global Sees $2 Billion as Japan Pensions Seek Hedge Funds
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2013-07-29T01:45:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/mizuho-global-sees-2-billion-as-japan-pensions-seek-hedge-funds.html
Mizuho Global Alternative
Investments Ltd. , which introduces hedge funds to Japanese
investors, expects assets to reach $2 billion by the end of the
business year, reflecting demand from local pensions.  The unit of  Japan ’s third-largest bank by market value
raised $1.7 billion by the end June that it placed with global
alternative asset managers that offer funds that invest in bank
loans and multistrategy hedge funds, Chief Executive Office
Manabu Ando said in an interview in Tokyo. It plans to offer
other alternative investments such as private-equity and
infrastructure funds by the end of this fiscal year in March
2014, he said.  Mizuho Global Alternative is seeking to meet demand from
Japan’s corporate pensions that need to fund rising payouts in
an aging society amid the prospect of rising bond yields as the
 Bank of Japan  pushes to achieve 2 percent inflation within two
years. Of the 80 trillion yen ($800 billion) managed by the
country’s corporate pensions, about 2 trillion yen to 3 trillion
yen could flow into assets including hedge funds in the current
fiscal year, according to Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd.  “We’re seeing growing appetite for yield-seeking
products,” Chief Investment Officer Shin Kubo said in the same
interview on July 23. “We’re starting to face a turning point
in the direction of bond yields, so demand for investments that
can withstand rising bond yields is growing.”  Growing Demand  Japanese pensions total $3.72 trillion, the world’s largest
pool of retirement assets after the U.S., according to  Towers
Watson & Co. (TW)  Gains in stock prices helped about 120 Japanese
pension funds surveyed by Towers Watson to post a 2.3 percent
return in the three months ended June.  Mizuho Global Alternative currently offers about seven
funds targeting mostly Japanese corporate pensions, Ando said.
It continues to focus on funds with more than two years of track
record and with assets under management of more than $500
million, he said.  Risk-parity funds, which allocate money to different asset
classes based on the types of risks they face under different
economic environments, have become popular, Ando said.  Mizuho, an affiliate of  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) , is
also looking to start an advisory business to help pensions
decide on their asset allocations, Ando said. To meet the
expected increase in demand, the company is seeking to increase
its staff to about 25 to 30 from the current 20 over the next
two to three years, he said.  “Investors are becoming more selective and looking for
quality brand,” Ando said. “That means the pace of asset
growth may taper, but those who can find quality investments
will remain the winners in the industry.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in  Tokyo  at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 