-- Japan Automakers Team Up to Add Number of Electric Chargers
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2013-07-29T06:55:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/japan-carmakers-team-up-to-hasten-buildup-of-electric-chargers.html
Japanese automakers led by  Nissan
Motor Co. (7201) , the producer of the zero-emission Leaf car, said
they’ll cooperate to increase the number of the charging
stations in the country to speed up adoption of electric cars.  Nissan,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , and  Mitsubishi
Motors Corp. (7211)  agreed to share costs to help build an additional
12,000 charging stations -- including 4,000 fast-charging points
-- they said in a statement today, without specifying a
timeframe.  Japan  now only has about 4,700 chargers, a third of
which are of the rapid variety, which is generally seen as
insufficient, they said.  Japanese automakers have led the  auto industry  in
production of low- and zero-emission vehicles in recent years,
though electric cars have struggled to catch on because of
issues including higher prices and range anxiety. More recently,
competition has been intensifying, with Model S-maker  Tesla
Motors Inc. (TSLA)  last month unveiling a system that can replace a
depleted car battery in 90 seconds -- faster than it takes to
fill up the tank in a gasoline car.  “Japanese auto manufacturers have been global leaders in
developing and commercializing electric vehicles,” said Ali Izadi-Najafabadi, a Bloomberg New Energy Finance analyst in
Tokyo. “To achieve higher volume sales, manufacturers need to
address the higher initial cost and the perceived limitations of
electric vehicles, particularly driving range.”  Fast Chargers  The most common type of fast charger in Japan is called
CHAdeMO, which can charge electric cars within 30 minutes.  Sales of electric vehicles, including those that have a
small backup gasoline tank like  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Chevrolet
Volt, will probably increase more than 80 percent to 225,000
units this year, according to estimates at Bloomberg New Energy
Finance.  Japan ranked second behind the U.S. in terms of electric-vehicle sales during the first half and led the world in terms
of regular hybrid-vehicle sales amid the popularity of Toyota’s
Prius cars, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In terms of infrastructure, Japan had the third-highest
number of regular electric-vehicle charging stations during the
first quarter, behind China and the U.S., while ranking second
behind China in the number of fast chargers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Government Subsidies  Toyota, maker of the Prius, is the top producer of
gasoline-electric hybrid vehicles though it lags behind Leaf-maker Nissan in electric vehicle sales.  Japanese automakers are also seeking to expand the number
of charging stations after the government set aside 100.5
billion yen ($1 billion) to subsidize new electric chargers.  Aside from sharing costs, the four Japanese carmakers said
they plan to jointly promote installations of chargers, develop
ways of making the charging stations more convenient to use and
work with the government, according to today’s statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in  Tokyo  at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  