-- Dollar, Stocks Gain as Treasuries Fluctuate Before Fed
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d ,   A l e x   B a r i n k a   a n d   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-07-30T20:10:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/japan-futures-signal-rout-to-continue-as-yen-holds-gains.html
The dollar gained, while most U.S.
stocks rose and Treasuries pared an advance, as investors
awaited tomorrow’s  Federal Reserve  statement for clues to the
central bank’s bond-buying plans. Australia’s dollar fell as the
central bank indicated it may lower interest rates.  The Bloomberg  Dollar Index , a gauge of the currency against
10 major peers, jumped 0.3 percent to 1,026.82 at 4 p.m. in  New
York . The  S&P 500  added less than 0.1 percent to 1,685.96 and is
up 5 percent in July, its biggest monthly gain since January.
Ten-year Treasury yields were little changed at 2.60 percent
after losing three basis points earlier. The Aussie weakened at
least 0.4 percent against its 16 major peers, tumbling 1.6
percent versus its U.S. counterpart. The S&P GSCI gauge of 24
raw materials slipped 0.7 percent for a fifth straight drop as
metals led losses.  Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. and Pitney Bowes Inc. jumped
more than 8.9 percent to lead the S&P 500 to an earlier gain of
as much as 0.5 percent after earnings beat estimates.  Reserve
Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  said inflation data
leave room for rate cuts as central banks in the U.S., Europe
and the U.K. meet this week. American  consumer confidence 
weakened in July while a gauge of U.S. home prices rose the most
in more than seven years, economic reports showed today.  “We’re waiting again to hear what the Fed has to say
because everybody’s on tenterhooks,” Sarah Hunt, an associate
fund manager and analyst who helps oversee $4.5 billion at
Purchase, New York-based Alpine Woods Capital Investors LLC,
said in a phone interview.  Fed Meeting  The  Federal Open Market Committee , which has said it may
start paring stimulus should the  U.S. economy  meet the central
bank’s forecasts, starts a two-day meeting today. The Fed will
probably maintain its benchmark  interest rate  at 0.25 percent,
economists predict. Policy makers will begin to reduce the
central bank’s bond-purchase program in September, a Bloomberg
survey of economists shows. A government report tomorrow is
forecast by economists to show that growth in U.S. gross
domestic product slowed to 1 percent in the second quarter from
1.8 percent in the first three months of the year.  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  has advanced this month as companies from Apple
Inc. to Visa Inc. reported better-than-estimated earnings. Of
the 302 companies in the S&P 500 that posted quarterly results
so far in the reporting season, 73 percent have exceeded
analysts’ estimates for profit and 55 percent have topped sales
projections, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Eastman Chemical Co. gained 6.3 percent after raising its
full-year profit forecast. Pfizer Inc. reported second-quarter
profit that beat analysts’ estimates, sending the shares up 0.4
percent.  Obama Speech  Obama, in a speech today in Chattanooga, Tennessee, argued
that years of budget fights have diverted attention from the
need to help middle-income Americans recover from the recession,
according to administration officials.  As an alternative to seeking quick passage of the deficit-reduction formula that has eluded lawmakers for two years --
some combination of increased tax revenue and entitlement curbs
-- Obama proposed spending more on job creation efforts. The
initiatives would include help for manufacturing, worker
training, and infrastructure improvements.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values climbed 12.2
percent from May 2012, the biggest 12-month gain since March
2006, after advancing 12.1 percent a month earlier. The median
projection of 31 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a
12.4 percent advance. The Conference Board’s index of U.S.
consumer confidence decreased to 80.3 in July from 82.1 a month
earlier, less than the median projection in a survey of
economists for a reading of 81.3.  European Stocks  More than two shares advanced for every one that fell in
the Stoxx 600, with trading volumes 10 percent below the 30-day
average.  Electricite de France SA, Europe’s biggest power generator,
climbed 7.4 percent to the highest since November 2011 after
raising its forecast for 2013 profit growth. Alcatel-Lucent SA,
a French maker of phone equipment, jumped 14 percent as sales
rose in the second quarter and the company said Qualcomm Inc.
agreed to buy a minority stake.  BP Plc (BP/) , Europe’s second-biggest oil company, declined 3.4
percent after reporting profit that missed estimates. Barclays
Plc, the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets, retreated 5.7
percent after saying it will raise 5.8 billion pounds ($8.9
billion) in a rights offering.  OAO Uralkali tumbled as much as 25 percent in Moscow as the
world’s largest potash producer forecast global prices for the
fertilizer ingredient will fall about 25 percent as it quits a
trade venture with Belarusian Potash Co. and boosts shipments
independently to countries including  China .  Producers Drop  K+S AG, Europe’s largest potash producer, plunged 24
percent to the lowest in six years in Frankfurt trading. Israel
Chemicals Ltd. sank 18 percent in Tel Aviv. Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc. sank 16 percent in Toronto and Mosaic Co.
tumbled 17 percent in New York.  Most emerging-market stocks advanced even as the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index slipped 0.2 percent. The gauge is 1.3
percent higher in July, headed for its best month since January.  The Shanghai Composite advanced 0.7 percent after the
People’s Bank of China added 17 billion  yuan  ($2.8 billion) to
the financial system using reverse repos for the first time in
five months. Benchmark gauges in South Korea,  Taiwan  and  Turkey 
advanced at least 0.9 percent.  India’s Sensex index lost 1.3 percent, declining for a
fifth day in the longest slump in more than three months. The
central bank kept interest rates on hold in line with analyst
estimates and said increases in other borrowing costs this month
to stem the rupee’s slide will be rolled back as the currency
stabilizes. The rupee weakened versus all 16 major peers.  Aussie Slides  The Aussie slid 1.6 percent to 90.63 U.S. cents after
touching 90.44 cents, the weakest level since July 15.  The Australian dollar has tumbled 10 percent this year, the
most among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, while the yen dropped 8.5 percent.
The euro strengthened 5.4 percent. The pound slipped 0.6 percent
to $1.5245 and lost 0.6 percent versus the euro. The  Bank of
England  and  European Central Bank  announce rate decisions on
Aug. 1.  Swedish Economy  Sweden’s krona weakened more than 1 percent against the
euro today after a report showed the nation’s economy
unexpectedly shrank in the second quarter. Gross domestic
product contracted 0.1 percent in the three months through June
from the previous quarter, when it grew 0.6 percent, preliminary
data from Stockholm-based Statistics Sweden showed. Economists
in a Bloomberg survey had predicted a 0.1 percent expansion.  The rate on 10-year Italian bonds fell five basis points to
4.40 percent as the nation met its maximum target of 6.75
billion euros ($8.96 billion) at the sale of securities maturing
in June 2018 and March 2024 today.  Copper fell 2.1 percent in  London  while palladium sank 1.8
percent to lead declines in metals. Gold for immediate delivery
was little changed. Oil fell 1.4 percent to $103.08 a barrel, a
three-week low, before tomorrow’s U.S. GDP report. Corn rallied
from the lowest price in almost 34 months, adding 0.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in в Лондоне at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Barinka in New York at 
 abarinka2@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Taborek in New York at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  