-- Jet Wins India Panel’s Approval to Sell Stake to Etihad
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a   a n d   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-07-30T04:25:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/jet-airways-wins-india-panel-s-approval-to-sell-stake-to-etihad.html
Jet Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN)  won
approval from  India ’s investment panel to sell a stake to Etihad
Airways PJSC, the first share sale by a local carrier to a
foreign airline after the nation eased ownership rules.  Jet’s plan to sell a 24 percent stake to Etihad was
approved by the  Foreign Investment Promotion Board , Economic
Affairs Secretary Arvind Mayaram told reporters in New Delhi
yesterday. The deal will need approvals from India’s finance
minister and Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, a government
official said, asking not to be named pending a formal
announcement. Jet rose as much as 8.3 percent in Mumbai trading.  The agreement with Abu Dhabi-based Etihad will help Jet
raise 20.6 billion rupees ($347 million) of funds for fleet
expansion and pare  debt  after six years of losses caused by a
price war and high fuel costs. Etihad will gain access to a
market where  air travel  is  forecast  by CAPA Centre for Aviation
and SITA to triple to 452 million by 2020.  “This deal is progressive for air transportation in the
South Asian region and will have an impact on the global
aviation business,” Mark D. Martin, chief executive officer of
Dubai-based Martin Consulting LLC, said in a telephone
interview. “There will be challenges that will take about 9-12
months to iron out after which they can focus on improving
marketshare and optimizing the synergies.”  Dropped Clause  The Indian carrier will need government approvals for any
future change in shareholding agreement, the official said.
Etihad will have two representatives on Jet’s board, he said.  Ragini Chopra, a spokeswoman for Mumbai-based Jet, declined
to comment as the “regulatory process” is still underway.
Etihad yesterday declined to immediately comment on the deal.  Etihad in April had agreed to pay 754.74 rupees a share.  Shares of Jet jumped 2.6 percent to 421.80 rupees as of
9:38 a.m. The stock had surged 11 percent to 634.80 rupees on
April 25, a day after the deal was announced.  The Indian airline will boost domestic seat capacity by as
much as 8 percent annually over the next three years as it takes
delivery of 46 aircraft, ordered with Boeing Co. earlier, K.G. Vishwanath, vice president of commercial strategy, told analysts
in a conference call on May 27. The company is considering an
order for Boeing 737 planes, he said.  New CEO  Jet also hired a new chief executive officer. The carrier
named Gary Kenneth Toomey, the former CEO of Air New Zealand
Ltd., to succeed Nikos Kardassis who resigned June 5, less than
two months after the stake sale agreement. Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh ’s government in September allowed foreign
carriers to buy as much as 49 percent of local operators.  State-owned Etihad has invested in smaller operators to
help feed long-haul flights and turn its home emirate into a hub
for intercontinental travel. It owns stakes in  Air Berlin Plc (AB1) ,
Air Seychelles Ltd.,  Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd. (VAH)  and  Aer
Lingus Group Plc. (AERL)   Jet is in talks with Etihad to lease out some excess
aircraft capacity including Airbus SAS A330 planes, Vishwanath
had said.  The carrier has said it will focus on increasing services
to  Abu Dhabi  by adding more direct flights to the emirate from
smaller Indian cities. It will also look at expanding services
to  Europe  with new direct flights.  Jet, due to announce first-quarter results on Aug. 8, in
May reported a wider-than-estimated fourth-quarter loss of 4.96
billion rupees because of higher aircraft lease costs and a one-time expense.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net ;
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  