-- John Kerry Fights the Wrong War
-- B y   F o u a d   A j a m i
-- 2013-07-29T15:58:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/john-kerry-fights-the-wrong-war.html
A time comes in the course of deadly
upheavals when the world wearies of the slaughter and the
bloodshed turns routine.  Words lose their shock value, and all that matters will
have been said. Bashar al-Assad had bet it would unfold that
way; from the beginning of this struggle, he warned one and all
in his country that the foreign cavalry will not show up, that
the promises of help will not materialize. The world is
feckless, despots know, and all they need to do is to hunker
down and wait out the initial moment of outrage.  Indeed, Bashar had the better coalition on his side. The
friends of the Syrian regime -- the Hezbollah militia in
Lebanon, the Iranians, the Russians and to some extent the
sectarian Shiite government in  Baghdad  --  enabled  the dictator
to hold on and reverse the course of battle. Meanwhile, the
Western democracies, the Sunni Arab states and  Turkey  have run
out the clock on the Syrian people.  The cavalry was always on the way, just another massacre
away, the weapons supplies were in the pipeline, and the
commitment to break the back of the Damascus regime just around
the corner.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  was politically shrewd about
Syria. There was no great campaign for intervention in that
country’s bloodshed, no “progressives” were appalled by the
violence, and the conservatives, the Republicans in the House
and Senate, were equally indifferent. Sure enough, there was
Senator  John McCain , relentless and offended by the violence,
insisting that the unraveling of Syria carries consequences for
American security, but he was a voice in the wilderness.  Avoiding Syria  The Obama administration never grappled with the reality of
Syria. It looked at Syria and thought and spoke of  Iraq . We were
war weary, Obama said, over and over again. There were sectarian
terrors in Iraq, and they would be waiting for us in Syria as
well. We would find no gratitude in Aleppo and Hama.  The beards came to the rescue of American policy. Those
Islamists, the jihadists who made their way to Syria, were a
solution to the moral embarrassment. That we could not be on the
side of al-Qaeda’s Ayman Zawahiri was one of the more memorable
formulations of then Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton . She
served her president’s interests fully during her tenure. She
kept Syria from intruding into his bid for a second term. Global
icons, apparently, don’t do campaigns of rescue for people
facing the unforgiving firepower of a brutal regime.  John Kerry  now picks up where his predecessor left off.
This was his second chance to get Syria right. Back during his
chairmanship of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Kerry
had fallen for the young Syrian dictator and his glamorous wife.
( Anna Wintour  was not alone in her  infatuation  with the first
lady of Damascus.) He took at face value the promises of reform
offered by a Syrian ruler eager to break out of the isolation
the  Bush administration  had imposed on him.  But by the appearance of things now, Kerry has nothing new
to offer the Syrians. He has seen for himself the heart-breaking
condition of the refugees in the Zaatari refugee camp in  Jordan ,
now a midsize city of unimaginable bleakness.  Kerry has made it clear that he is determined to restore
the moribund Israeli-Palestinian peace negotiations. His choice
has taken the Arabs by surprise. In the nature of Arab
officialdom, the political elite have to pay lip service to the
cause of the Palestinians; they can’t be less pro-Palestinian
than the American diplomat. But the moral and strategic cause
that holds the Arabs at the moment is the fight for  Syria .  This is where the Sunni Arab states are truly engaged.
Damascus is a city of religious and cultural sanctity to Muslim
Arabs. The barbarism inflicted on the Syrians by their Alawite
rulers is an affront to Sunni governments and people alike. The
arrival of an American chief diplomat keen to ride into the
windmills of an old, stale conflict is, to them, as good a
testimony as any on the erosion of U.S. power.  Military Warning  “Bad guys” on both sides, jihadis hoisting black flags
atop small emirates of their own, the specter of a “failed
state” on the shores of the Mediterranean -- we are wise to
stay out, say the Obamians. Our highest soldier, the chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Martin Dempsey, has just laid
out the choices and  the costs  in Syria -- train and assist the
opposition, conduct limited strikes against sensitive regime
targets, establish a no-fly zone, create buffer zones across the
Jordanian and Turkish borders, control chemical weapons. No less
than an act of war awaits us, the general warned, in a time of
budget cuts and fiscal uncertainty. From this menu emerged the
real choice: “none of the above.”  Deep into their third year of grief, the Syrians know
better than to expect deliverance from the pre-eminent Western
power. Amid the wreckage of their country, and in the forsaken
refugee camps that have become home to 2 million people, they
know they are on their own. They have been schooled in the
doublespeak and the evasions of those who could have aided them
but chose not to do so.  (Fouad Ajami is a senior fellow at the Stanford
University’s Hoover Institution and author of “The Syrian
Rebellion.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Fouad Ajami at  mjring@stanford.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 