-- JPMorgan Accused of Gaming Energy Bids as FERC Deal Looms
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-07-30T04:02:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/jpmorgan-accused-of-manipulating-energy-markets-in-u-s-.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  manipulated
power markets in California and the Midwest, the U.S. Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission claimed in a proceeding that sets
up a settlement to be announced as early as today.  A JPMorgan trading unit gamed wholesale electricity markets
from September 2010 to June 2011, leading to overpayment of
“tens of millions of dollars at rates far above market prices”
in California alone, FERC staff said in a Notice of Alleged
Violations yesterday.  The nation’s biggest bank and its chief energy-market
regulator have agreed to settle the matter with sanctions that
include a fine of about $400 million, according to a person
familiar with the case who asked not to be identified because
the terms aren’t yet public.  Brian Marchiony , a JPMorgan
spokesman, declined to comment on the FERC action.  “JPMorgan picked the pockets of California households and
businesses, and their manipulation increased the electric bills
that people pay,” said  Tyson Slocum , director of the energy
program at  Public Citizen , a Washington-based consumer advocacy
group.  The case marks another setback for JPMorgan, which sailed
through the 2008 financial crisis without a single quarterly
loss. Last year JPMorgan lost more than $6.2 billion from wrong-way derivatives bets placed by traders in  London . The incident
prompted a U.S. Senate investigation, the departure of two
senior executives and a debate over whether Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon , 57, should keep his chairman role. In May
shareholders re-elected him as chairman.  Unit Sale  JPMorgan said July 26 it was considering the sale or spin
off of its physical commodities business, including energy
trading, three days after a congressional hearing examined
whether banks are using their ownership of raw materials to
manipulate markets.  Commodities chief Blythe Masters oversees the unit, J.P.
Morgan Ventures Energy Corp. The wholly owned subsidiary trades
and holds physical commodities, including agricultural products,
metals and energy, as well as derivatives.  The FERC in November revoked the unit’s right to trade
power for six months after accusing the firm of providing
misleading information to regulators. The suspension, which took
effect in April, marked the first such sanction for an active
market participant.  Market Gaming  “These schemes are very complex, and it seems that the
banks and the manipulators are always 10 steps ahead of the
regulators,” Slocum said. “We need to have a review to
determine whether or not these markets are working as
advertised.”  Investigators focused in part on “make whole” payments
that grid operators pay to generators if the sale of electricity
doesn’t yield enough revenue for the company to recover its
startup costs.  The FERC staff said yesterday that the energy-trading unit
was involved in five market-gaming strategies in  California  from
September 2010 to June 2011, leading to overpayment “far above
market prices.” The company engaged in three gaming strategies
in Midwest energy markets October 2010 to May 2011, the staff
said.  In one scheme, JPMorgan traders made low end-of-day bids to
attract large orders from buyers to provide power the next day,
the FERC said. In the first two hours the next day, the bank
demanded higher rates for making the power available, a maneuver
that led the grid operator to pay it millions of dollars for a
period in which demand is typically low.  In another strategy, traders offered low rates for
providing electricity the next day to lure orders from grid
operators, then gamed the bidding system to reap higher payments
“far above market prices,” the FERC said without elaborating.  Wellinghoff’s Tenure  FERC Chairman Jon Wellinghoff has stepped up scrutiny of
corporations as the agency wields policing powers that were
expanded in the wake of Enron Corp.’s 2001 collapse. Since 2011,
the FERC has revealed at least 13 probes of energy-market
gaming.  The regulator on July 16 ordered Barclays Plc and four of
the company’s former traders to pay a combined $487.9 million in
fines and penalties for engaging in what the agency said was a
scheme to manipulate energy markets in the Western U.S. from
2006 and 2008. The bank has vowed to fight the penalties.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  agreed on Jan. 22 to pay $1.6 million to
resolve FERC claims that an energy-trading unit manipulated
markets in 2010. The Frankfurt-based bank didn’t admit or deny
wrongdoing.  Bidding Focus  The agency fined ex-Amaranth Advisors LLC trader  Brian Hunter  $30 million in 2011, ruling he manipulated the price of
contracts on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  in 2006 while
boosting the value of financial derivatives. A  U.S. Court of
Appeals  ruled in March that FERC lacked the jurisdiction for the
fine.  The FERC in March 2012 reached a then-record $245 million
settlement with Constellation Energy Group Inc. over alleged
energy trading violations in  New York . Constellation didn’t
admit any wrongdoing.  The JPMorgan case differs from those involving Barclays and
Deutsche Bank in that it deals only with bidding strategies in
electricity markets, according to Susan Court, a former director
of FERC’s enforcement office. The latter two investigations
dealt with traders who allegedly gamed electricity markets to
benefit their positions in financial markets.  “FERC enforcement staff is getting more sophisticated in
their understanding of these markets,” Court, now the principal
at SJC Energy Consultants LLC in Arlington,  Virginia , said in a
phone interview. The markets are also becoming more complicated,
she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  