-- Junk Bond Fever Building as High Grade Trails: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-07-29T16:27:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/junk-bond-fever-building-as-high-grade-trails-credit-markets.html
Investors are pumping money into
 junk bonds  globally at the fastest pace ever while tempering
their enthusiasm for higher-rated debt, demonstrating a
preference for yield over stability.  Speculative-grade bond funds received a record $5.4 billion
of deposits in the week ended July 24 while investors yanked
$1.8 billion from investment grade, according to data from
market researcher EPFR Global. Bond buyers are accepting the
lowest yields in more than two years on riskier dollar-denominated debt relative to more creditworthy notes, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Investors who abandoned junk bonds at a record pace in June
are now casting aside concern that the securities will lose
their allure as the  Federal Reserve  slows its record stimulus
because of the extra yield the securities offer. The demand is
allowing the neediest borrowers to ramp up indebtedness.  “High yield is far less vulnerable to a rise in  interest
rates  than investment grade,” Gregory Kamford, a credit
strategist at RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said
in a telephone interview. The securities will “materially
outperform investment grade over the balance of 2013,” he said.  Corporate bonds globally of all ratings lost 2.4 percent in
June, the biggest decline since October 2008, after Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said May 22 that sustainable labor-market
progress could prompt policy makers to scale back $85 billion of
monthly purchase of  Treasuries (USGG10YR)  and mortgage bonds.  Junk Rally  Intelsat SA, the world’s biggest satellite services
company, has led gains this month of 1.82 percent on junk bonds
worldwide, the most in a year, after Bernanke said on July 17
that the U.S. central bank plans to “maintain a high degree of
monetary accommodation.” Investment-grade notes have returned
0.9 percent.  The gap between yields on dollar-denominated high-yield and
investment-grade bonds contracted to 3.18 percentage points on
July 23 from 4.6 percentage points a year earlier as demand for
the riskier debt surged, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show.  Investors poured $1.1 billion into exchange-traded funds
that focus on dollar-denominated junk bonds in the five weeks
ended July 17, compared with $173.8 million of withdrawals from
investment-grade bond ETFs, according to data compiled by RBS.  Default Swaps  “The Fed has successfully dampened volatility over the
past few weeks,” Adam Richmond, a credit strategist at Morgan
Stanley in  New York , said in a telephone interview. “What has
changed? Probably not much.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. increased, with the
Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, climbing 2 basis points to a mid-price of 76.3
basis points as of 12:21 p.m. in New York, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  The measure typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Morgan Stanley  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, rose 0.2 basis point to 16.2 basis points as
of 12:22 p.m. in New York. The gauge widens when investors seek
the perceived safety of  government securities  and narrows when
they favor assets such as company debentures.  Bonds of Morgan Stanley are the most actively traded
dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
accounting for 5 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1
million or more as of 12:23 p.m. in New York, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Speculative-grade funds globally faced their biggest weekly
outflow on record in the week ended June 26 with $6.8 billion of
withdrawals, according to EPFR in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .
Yields on 10-year Treasuries soared to 2.74 percent on July 5,
the highest since August 2011.  When Bernanke said on July 17 that the Fed’s asset
purchases aren’t on a “preset course,” the market retraced
some of the declines. “We’re going to be responding to the
data,” Bernanke said in testimony before the House Financial
Services Committee.  Intelsat, Valeant  While high-yield debt has gained back more than half its
2.8 percent decline in June, investment-grade bonds have
recouped less than a third of their return and have lost 1.2
percent since year-end.  High-yield bonds are graded below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  Bonds of Intelsat, the largest issuer of high-yield bonds
in the U.S. this year, have gained 3.99 percent this month, the
most among the biggest 50 borrowers in the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Global High Yield Index. Valeant Pharmaceuticals
International Inc., the Laval, Quebec-based drug distributor
acquiring Bausch & Lomb Holdings Inc., returned 3.88 percent.  Relative yields on high-yield bonds globally were 511 basis
points on July 26 compared with the all-time low of 233 in June
2007, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. Spreads on
investment-grade notes of 150 basis points are up from this
year’s low of 132 on May 28.  More Volatility  Luke Hickmore, an investment director at Scottish Widows
Investment Partnership in Edinburgh, said his firm favors junk
bonds over higher-rated debt.  “The difference between the absolute yield you get in high
yield versus investment grade will grind tighter as slowing
stimulus becomes a reality,” he said.  More volatility may be in the offing if the economy shows
signs of improvement, flaring concern that the Fed will slow its
bond purchases faster which would send yields soaring. Payrolls
climbed by 202,000 a month on average from January through June,
up from 180,000 in the second half of 2012, Labor Department
figures show.  “We’ve been bearish on high yield for several months,”
said Andrew Rabinowitz, a partner and chief operating officer of
Marathon Asset Management LP, a hedge-fund firm that oversees
more than $10.5 billion. “We’re still skeptics of it. It’s a
yield play.”  Default Rate  Median leverage for high-yield companies has risen to 3.92
times from 3.42 times at the end of 2011, according to a June 3
report by Morgan Stanley strategists led by Richmond. Borrowers
have sold $305.5 billion of speculative-grade bonds this year
globally, more than the $206.5 billion issued in the same period
last year, Bloomberg data show.  RBS strategists forecast that high-yield bonds will return
8.3 percent in 2013, compared with a 0.6 percent gain for
investment-grade notes, Kamford said.  The 12-month trailing global speculative-grade default rate
fell to 2.8 percent at the end of the second quarter from 3.1
percent in the same period last year, Moody’s said July 11. The
ratings firm expects the rate to rise to 3.2 percent by year-end.  “Default rates are close to historic lows and are expected
to stay that way for the foreseeable future,” Kamford said.
“We prefer high yield versus investment grade due to the extra
coupon cushion it provides.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  