-- Kenyan Security Unit to Guard Vanoil, Afren Assets in North
-- B y   A b j a t a   K h a l i f
-- 2013-07-30T08:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/kenya-forms-security-unit-to-guard-oil-assets-in-unstable-north.html
Kenya  has created a security unit to
protect oil exploration sites in its strife-prone north where
companies including  Vanoil Energy Ltd. (VEL)  are searching for
petroleum, a senior government official said.  The region, which borders Somalia and  Ethiopia , has been
hit by frequent grenade and gun attacks since the country sent
its army into southern Somalia in Oct. 2011 in pursuit of al-Qaeda-linked rebels trying to impose Islamic law. Kenya has
accused al-Shabaab of carrying out attacks on foreigners in its
north including the kidnapping of aid workers and tourists.  “The formation of the special security unit is
necessitated by many factors such as oil sites which are located
in conflict-prone arid areas of northeast Kenya,” Garissa
County Commissioner Rashid Khator said in an interview
yesterday.  “It’s a strategic investment which must be accorded
special protection and round the clock security.”  Kenya, which imports all of its oil needs, found its first
crude deposit last year in the country’s northwest. The
discovery has spurred investment in the industry even as  Tullow
Oil Plc (TLW) , along with partners  Africa Oil Corp. (AOI)  and Cnooc Ltd.,
are assessing the commercial viability of their finds.  The security unit will guard “strategic facilities” such
as oil exploration installations, and protect workers in the
industry and their transportation networks, Khator said. The
government is also working to settle any disputes between
communities over division of possible oil reserves, which
threatens to exacerbate decades-old ethnic tensions over other
resources including land for cattle-grazing and water, he said.  Borana, Somali  The Borana, a pastoralist group in Isiolo County, and
ethnic Somalis in Garissa County disagree over the boundaries
within 3A and 3B blocks operated by Vanoil Energy, Khator said.  “The government is addressing claims between Borana and
Somali communities over location of the two oil exploration
sites and we will rely on colonial maps and elders with
knowledge of the area,” he said. “We will not allow the matter
to reignite old rivalry between the two communities and cause
armed conflict.”  The spread of weapons from Somalia has fuelled inter-communal violence in Kenya, according to a government
investigation into clan fighting in the eastern Tana River Delta
which left at least 164 people dead since last year and
displaced 40,000 more. Somalia is trying to rebuild a
functioning central government and re-establish security after
being mired in civil war and lawlessness since the overthrow of
dictator Mohamed Siad Barre in 1991.  Simba Energy Inc. and  Afren Plc (AFR)  are among other companies
operating in Kenya’s north, according to their websites. No one
answered a call to the  Vancouver , British Columbia-based office
of Vanoil Energy outside regular office hours yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abjata Khalif in Nairobi at 
 akhalif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 