-- Kenya Elephants May Face Extinction by 2023 If Poaching Persists
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2013-07-29T11:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/kenya-elephants-may-face-extinction-by-2023-if-poaching-persists.html
Kenyan elephants living in the wild
are at risk of extinction in the next decade if nothing is done
to stop a surge in poaching for their tusks and help stabilize
the population, first lady Margaret Kenyatta said.  At least 183 elephants have been killed in the East African
nation this year, leaving about 30,000 remaining, Kenyatta said,
according to an e-mailed statement citing her remarks at the
start of a national anti-poaching campaign called “Hands Off
Our Elephants.”  “Unless this crisis is averted, in 10 years there will be
no wild elephants left in  Kenya ,” Kenyatta said on July 26.
“How can we stand by while one of the world’s most amazing
species is driven to extinction?”  The amount of illicit ivory being traded has more than
doubled since 2007 and African elephants are facing the most
serious threat since 1989, when a ban on the commercial trade in
ivory took effect, according to the  United Nations . Asian
economies registering high rates of economic growth including
China and  Thailand  are fueling demand, while the prevalence of
weak governance and corruption has stymied efforts to prevent
the animals’  slaughter , the UN said in report released in March.  Increased demand for elephant tusks as prices soared has
driven the “rapid” expansion in  poaching  in the past few
years, according to Save the Elephants, a Nairobi, Kenya-based
conservation group.  The decline in elephants may affect Kenya’s tourism
industry, which employs 300,000 people, Kenyatta said. The
country, home to game parks including the Maasai Mara, counts
tourism as its largest foreign-exchange earner, after tea. About
1.8 million tourists visited Kenya last year, generating 96
billion shillings ($1.1 billion).  “This is a recipe for instability and poverty,” Kenyatta
said.  Kenyan authorities this month seized at least two large
consignments of illegal ivory including a cargo at the port of
 Mombasa  weighing 3.3 metric tons and destined for  Malaysia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  