-- Kenya’s Rotich Says Very Little to No Room for Further Rate Cuts
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2013-07-29T12:17:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/kenya-s-rotich-says-very-little-to-no-room-for-further-rate-cuts.html
Kenya  may not have any room left to
cut interest rates further this year as the inflation outlook
for  East Africa ’s biggest economy detoriorates, Treasury
Secretary Henry Rotich said.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by central bank Governor
Njuguna Ndung’u, will review the benchmark  interest rate  again
in September and November, after leaving it unchanged at 8.5
percent this month. Kenya has cut the rate by 9.5 percentage
points since the easing cycle began last year.  “There is very little room if any left for more monetary
easing because inflation is picking up,” Rotich said in an
interview today in the capital, Nairobi. “Inflation could
accelerate, but remain within our target.”  Annual inflation  accelerated to 4.9 percent in June from
4.1 percent in May, according to the Kenya National Bureau of
Statistics, staying within the government’s target of 2.5
percentage points above or below 5 percent. The statistics
office is expected to release July inflation data tomorrow.  New taxes may fan inflation, according to Deloitte. Kenya
introduced a railway development levy of 1.5 percent on all
imported goods from July 1, while awmakers are debating a bill
in which the government wants to scrap exemptions of the 16
percent Value Added Tax on some processed products.  Rotich said the shilling is expected to stablize at about
85 per dollar “as long as fundamentals such as inflation are in
order.” The shilling is  Africa ’s second-worst performing
currency this month, after  Ghana ’s cedi. The currency was
trading unchanged at 87.30 per dollar by 2:14 p.m. in Nairobi,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kenya’s plan to sell its first Eurobonds in September or
October to raise $1 billion to fund infrastructure is moving
forward, according to Rotich. “Global market conditions have
not changed significantly and we expect they will still favour
us when we sell this year,” he said.  Economic growth is expected to accelerate to 5.8 percent
this year from 4.6 percent in 2012, according to Rotich. The
country is the world’s biggest exporter of black tea and
supplies a third of all of the flowers traded in  Europe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Nairobi at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  