-- Krona Gains as Retail Sales Damp Riksbank Bets: Stockholm Mover
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-07-29T10:23:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/krona-gains-as-retail-sales-damp-riksbank-bets-stockholm-mover.html
Sweden ’s krona strengthened the most
in more than a week against the euro after a report showed
retail sales accelerated more than estimated, damping
speculation that the Riksbank will cut  interest rates  again.  The krona advanced as much as 0.6 percent against the euro,
its steepest appreciation since July 17, and traded 0.3 percent
higher at 8.5867 as of 12:11 p.m. in  Stockholm . Versus the
dollar, the krona strengthened as much as 0.7 percent. It was
the second-biggest gainer against the euro and the dollar among
the 17 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Retail sales grew an annual 3.6 percent in June,
accelerating from a 3.1 percent gain in May, Stockholm-based
 Statistics Sweden  said today. The median estimate in a survey of
five economists was for sales to grow 2.1 percent. Spending will
continue to be supported by favorable conditions such as solid
income growth and low inflation, said Andreas Wallstroem, an
analyst at Nordea Bank AB in Stockholm.  “The good prospects for households, as well as their
indebtedness, are important reasons to why we expect that the
Riksbank will keep away from further monetary stimulus,” he
said in a note to clients.  Sweden’s central bank kept its main interest rate unchanged
this month for a third meeting and stuck to a plan to start
raising rates in the second half of next year as the economy
improves. A report last week showed  consumer confidence  gained
for a second month in July, rising to a two-year high.  “The 3.6 percent number on an annual basis beat most
expectations and while this is not crucial in the Riksbank’s
decision on the repo rate, it’s one component that points in the
direction” that the central bank won’t cut rates at its next
monetary policy meeting, Dag Muller, a technical analyst at SEB
AB in Stockholm, said by telephone today. “Activity is
extremely low today, with few customers in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  