-- Kuroda Sees Japan Economy Weathering Planned Sales-Tax Rise
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2013-07-29T09:00:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/kuroda-sees-japan-economy-weathering-planned-sales-tax-increase.html
Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda indicated little concern that a planned  sales-tax  rise
would derail an economic rebound as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
considers whether to proceed with the move.  “A two-step sales tax increase won’t give major damage to
growth in  Japan ’s economy,” Kuroda said in a  speech  today in
Tokyo, referring to the BOJ’s growth forecasts. “We consider a
downturn in overseas economies to be the largest risk factor to
the outlook for economic activity and prices.”  The comments are Kuroda’s most direct yet on the potential
impact of a boost in the levy, weeks before officials decide
whether to go ahead with the first step -- raising it to 8
percent in April from the current 5 percent. While Finance
Minister Taro Aso has said the government needs to proceed,
Abe advisers including Koichi Hamada have expressed caution.  “The BOJ wants sales tax increases as it views them as a
stabilizer for long-term yields,” said  Takeshi Minami , chief
economist at Norinchukin Research Institute Co. in Tokyo.
“Kuroda is mindful that his massive easing will be meaningless
if the market loses faith in Japanese  government bonds .”  Any jump in concern about the sustainability of Japan’s
public debt burden -- the world’s largest -- would add to
pressure on a government debt market already facing the prospect
of the end of 15 years of sustained consumer-price declines.
Kuroda in April unleashed unprecedented monetary stimulus to
rekindle inflation, which undermines the value of bonds’ fixed
payments.  Falling Shares  Japanese shares fell today, with the Topix index capping
the biggest two-day loss in two months, tumbling 3.3 percent
today. The yen was 0.2 stronger at 97.97 per dollar at 5:29 p.m.
in  Tokyo , after earlier touching a one-month high. The benchmark
10-year bond yield was at 0.795, up 1 basis point.  Kuroda was previously a senior bureaucrat in Japan’s
finance ministry, which has pushed for the sales tax to be
lifted to help the government rein in its debt.  Abe has instructed his government to study the impact to
the economy of various options for the sales tax, the Nikkei
reported last week. The four options include raising it as
planned, and freezing the tax for the time being, the newspaper
said. The government currently plans to increase the tax to 8
percent in April next year, and then to 10 percent in October
2015. Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga said today the
decision will come before the start of the autumn session of
parliament, which has yet to be announced.  Growth Forecasts  Even with a tax rise, the central bank expects real gross
domestic product to expand 1.3 percent in the fiscal year
starting in April, according to the median estimate of the nine
policy board members  released  earlier this month.  Cushioning the economy from the blow to personal
consumption from the tax hike could cost 5 trillion yen ($51
billion) in additional stimulus, according to the median
forecast of 23 economists in a Bloomberg News survey last week.  Abe’s government will probably decide to change the
implementation of the tax rise to 1 percentage point a year,
 Robert Feldman , head of Japan economic research at Morgan
Stanley MUFG Securities Co. said in a report today, as a big tax
hike “might derail the deflation-exit agenda.” In addition,
“by reducing the consumption tax hike and thus reducing the hit
to the economy, Prime Minister Abe will reduce the need for any
special budget,” Feldman said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  