-- N.Y. Judge Sues City, Claims Pressure to Levy Big Fines
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-07-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/n-y-judge-sues-city-claims-pressure-to-levy-big-fines.html
A  New York  City administrative law
judge accused the city’s  consumer affairs department  in a
lawsuit of pressuring her to impose maximum fines against
businesses in cases where she didn’t think they were warranted.  Judge Michele Mirro, who started at the department in 1990,
alleged that officials engaged in a pattern of pressuring judges
into finding against businesses accused of code violations and
assessing top fines, according to a complaint filed yesterday in
federal court in  Brooklyn , New York.  Starting in 2008, department officials stripped the judges
of the power to issue decisions without supervisory approval,
Mirro said in the complaint. Approval became required for “any
ALJ decision in which the ALJ does not find the respondent at
the hearing guilty with the imposition of a maximum fine,”
Mirro said.  In one instance, Mirro said she was forced to change her
decision to “guilty” and impose a $20,000 fine after first
finding a business not guilty of charges against it.  The  New York City  Department of Consumer Affairs licenses
more than 78,000 businesses and handles cases of violations and
consumer protection issues, according to its website. In June,
the New York Daily News  reported  that the department had
implemented a quota system encouraging agency inspectors to
“keep numbers high” for citations.  Disciplinary Charges  Mirro said she was subject to retaliation after complaining
about the department’s practices. That included disciplinary
charges and a threat of termination in January, she said. She
also alleged in her complaint that her decisions have been
subject to unusual scrutiny and that she has been assigned
“burdensome clerical tasks” and a large caseload “to cause
delinquency in submitting decisions.”  The judge seeks to remove negative disciplinary records
against her, as well as an injunction against the department’s
pressure tactics, compensation for “pain and suffering and
damage to plaintiff’s reputation” plus a ruling that the
department deprived her of her constitutional rights.  New York City’s law department is reviewing the allegations
in the suit, Elizabeth Thomas, a spokeswoman for the city, said
in an e-mailed statement.  “The timing of this lawsuit is curious given that the
plaintiff was charged by DCA with incompetence a few months
ago,” she said.  Stewart Lee Karlin , a lawyer for Mirro, said that
disciplinary proceedings against the judge are pending.  “They’re trying to remove her,” he said in a phone
interview. “The case really stands for the principle that a
judge needs to be truly independent.”  New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  is the founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News .  The case is Mirro v. The City of New York, 13-cv-04257,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  