-- Narula’s Metacapital Fund Suffers Worst Quarter on Mortgage Bets
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-07-29T16:58:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/narula-s-metacapital-fund-suffers-worst-quarter-on-mortgage-bets.html
Metacapital Management LP’s largest
hedge fund, the industry’s best-performing last year, slumped
2.9 percent last month, extending declines in its worst quarter
as mortgage-bond bets burned managerDeepak Narula.  The $1.3 billion fund overseen by Narula, a former Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. trader, lost 10 percent in the quarter,
leaving it down 8.2 percent in the first half of 2013, according
to a letter to investors obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Hedge funds 
focusing on mortgage debt have been roiled since May by lower
prices caused partly by signals that the  Federal Reserve  may
soon pare its  debt buying .  Narula declined to comment on the fund performance.  Metacapital’s biggest losses stemmed from securities known
as interest only and inverse IO notes, according to the letter.
The debt, which typically outperforms amid rising interest
rates, has suffered amid speculation that a potential new
overseer for  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac  could expand the federal
Home Affordable Refinance Program. Narula warned that the step
would aid few borrowers amid rising property prices and mortgage
rates and could send rates even higher.  “Further modifications to the current program will be
disruptive to the market and will result in further uncertainty
and ultimately lead to lower investor demand and higher rates
for the homebuyer,” he wrote in the letter.  His fund gained 41 percent last year, when it topped
Bloomberg Markets magazine’s list of the top performing managers
overseeing more than $1 billion. His second-quarter losses were
reported earlier by Reuters.  Watt Nomination  IOs and IIOs offer no principal payments, meaning their
cash flows are tied only to how long the debt remains
outstanding.  The nomination of Representative Mel Watt, a North Carolina
Democrat, to head the Federal Housing Finance Agency was
approved July 18 by the U.S. Senate Banking Committee, setting
up a floor fight over President  Barack Obama ’s pick to oversee
 Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac.  “We see continued policy headlines and events as a
negative technical that will introduce volatility into the
broader IO market in the coming months,” Bank of America Corp.
analysts led by  Chris Flanagan  and Satish Mansukhani wrote in a
July 26 report.  Narula wrote that the spreads have tightened in July and
“the potential downside” in the event of policy changes “is
far less than the upside in a status quo or a more moderate
outcome.”  “We also expect greater interest in the IO sector as it
offers a cheap negative duration asset,” or debt that would
typically rise in value with higher rates, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  