-- Israel Central Banker Search Resumes as Frenkel Bows Out
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-07-30T12:06:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/netanyahu-s-central-banker-search-resumes-as-frenkel-bows-out.html
Benjamin Netanyahu ’s struggle to
find a new Bank of Israel governor may force him to listen more
carefully to the advice of the man who ran the central bank for
the past eight years.  After his original pick  Jacob Frenkel  withdrew late
yesterday, Netanyahu pledged to find another candidate within
days to take over from  Stanley Fischer . With time running short,
the Israeli prime minister could be tempted to give the job on a
permanent basis to Karnit Flug, the current interim governor,
said economists from I.B.I.-Israel Brokerage and Investments
Ltd. and Ayalon Group Ltd. Fischer recommended his deputy Flug
to Netanyahu during his first attempt to fill the post, said a
person familiar with the situation.  “It could be that she will benefit from the vacuum that
has been created,” Yaniv Pagot, chief strategist at Ayalon,
said in a telephone interview, referring to Flug. “They may
want to put this saga behind them as soon as possible. It’s been
chewed on so long it’s like gum. And they have other things to
do.”  Israel’s shekel pared earlier losses and gained 0.1 percent
to 3.5708 a dollar at 2:46 p.m. in  Tel Aviv . The currency has
advanced 4.5 percent this year, making it the best performer
among an expanded list 31 major currencies. The yield on
Israel’s 4.25 percent benchmark bonds due March 2023 rose two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.71 percent.  Replacement Soon  Netanyahu and Finance Minister Yair Lapid said they planned
to name another candidate in the “coming days,” according to a
text message sent to reporters. Frenkel’s candidacy was derailed
after the Haaretz newspaper reported he had left a Hong Kong
duty-free shop in 2006 without paying for an item, an incident
the former Bank of Israel governor called a misunderstanding.  Frenkel, 70, withdrew his candidacy a month after accepting
Netanyahu’s offer, saying in a television interview that he
suffered an “avalanche of abuse” in the interim.  “I regret that recent developments don’t permit Jacob the
right to serve the nation once again as  Bank of Israel  governor,
something in which I’m sure he would have contributed greatly to
Israel, its citizens and economy,” Fischer said today in an e-mailed statement.  Gila Finkelstein, a member of the committee that was
vetting Frenkel’s appointment, said on  Army Radio  today that
Frenkel would have been “the right man, at the right time, in
the right place.”  “There was a deliberate and malicious effort here to block
his appointment,” she said.  International Renown  Frenkel’s withdrawal sets back Netanyahu’s efforts to
appoint an economist with international credentials to head the
central bank. The daily Ma’ariv named Flug, former finance
ministry director Avi Ben-Bassat and Bank Hapoalim Ltd. chief
economist Leonardo Leiderman as potential candidates. All three
served as heads of research at the Bank of Israel.  Frenkel’s career trajectory has taken him from the halls of
the  University of Chicago  to the research files of the
 International Monetary Fund  to the boardrooms of  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  His decision to withdraw is a “big miss” for Israel,
Lapid said in a statement.  “Netanyahu and Lapid both have called me to try to
dissuade me, to stay a little longer and all the rest,”
Frenkel, who served as governor from 1991 to 2000, said in a
telephone interview. “From day one, I thought I should let
somebody else do it. I allowed my arm to be twisted. But if it’s
not fun, why do it at this stage of my life?”  ‘Last Minute’  Terence Klingman, chief strategist at Psagot Investment
House Ltd. in Tel Aviv, said the prime minister’s decision-making process was flawed.  “They knew for six months that Fischer was going and they
dilly dallied with a decision and then appointed Frenkel right
at the last minute,” Klingman said in a telephone interview.
Given the problems with Netanyahu’s first choice, “it’s going
to be hard for them” not to appoint Flug, he said.  In its first Flug-led meeting, the bank’s monetary policy
panel kept  Israel ’s benchmark interest rate unchanged yesterday
at 1.25 percent. The central bank said indicators suggest
“continued growth of economic activity at the relatively
moderate pace of the past two years, which eased concerns of an
additional slowdown.”  Frenkel’s withdrawal may save the Bank of Israel from
further problems down the line, said Rafi Gozlan, chief
economist at I.B.I., in Tel Aviv.  “Otherwise the cloud over the candidacy could have made it
difficult for Frenkel to function and could have turned him into
a lame duck,” Gozlan said in a telephone interview.  Fischer, 69, a former No. 2 at the IMF, stepped down midway
through his second five-year term, citing personal reasons. The
former thesis adviser to Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  at  Massachusetts Institute of Technology , Fischer has
been credited with helping Israel to weather the global economic
crisis better than most developed countries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  