-- New Wireless Upgrade Plans Could Boost IPhone Sales
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-07-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/new-wireless-upgrade-plans-could-boost-iphone-sales.html
U.S. wireless carriers are making it
easier for customers to upgrade phones more often. That’s
welcome news for consumers and could also provide a much-needed
lift for  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics Co.  Verizon Wireless is following  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  T-Mobile US
Inc. (TMUS) , which earlier this month gave users an option to replace
devices as often as every six months, rather than the typical
two years in the U.S. Smartphone makers could use the help as
they grapple with falling prices and a maturing market.  The success of the carriers’ upgrade-friendly strategy,
which lets consumers pay for a phone in monthly installments
instead of an upfront fee, depends on the bulk of their
customers reacting like Mona Khanna, a physician in  Chicago .  “We live in an ADHD world, and I need it now and fast,”
Khanna said. “The iPhones -- they are your cameras, phones,
computers -- you need to have the latest technology.”  Khanna plans to soon switch from Verizon for a new, more
flexible AT&T plan with calling from overseas. If enough
consumers behave similarly, smartphone unit sales should
increase by as much as 10 percent to 15 percent a year, said
 Roger Entner , an analyst at Recon Analytics LLC.  With the carriers’ new terms, “you’ll have people who go
from upgrading every 24 months to 12 months, and people who used
to upgrade every 12 months changing to six months,” he said.  Speeding up smartphone users’ buying patterns is just what
device makers need right now. More than 60 percent of U.S.
mobile subscribers already have smartphones, according to
 Nielsen Co.  Average prices are likely to drop to $285 this year
from $300 in 2012, said  Chetan Sharma , an independent wireless
analyst. And both the high-margin Apple iPhone and Samsung
Galaxy S4 sales are showing signs of growth fatigue.  Samsung Struggles  In the quarter ended in June, iPhone sales advanced 20
percent to 31.2 million units. A year earlier, Apple reported
unit sales up 28 percent over 2011.  Natalie Kerris , a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-based Apple, didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Samsung’s flagship Galaxy S4 handset is also struggling
with growth in a mature smartphone market. Samsung reported
sales for the Galaxy S4 this month that fell short of analysts’
projections.  Jessica Redman, a spokeswoman for Suwon, South Korea-based
Samsung, declined to comment.  U.S. smartphone shipments will reach 137.3 million this
year, up 14 percent from 120.1 million units last year, said
Kevin Restivo, an analyst at research firm IDC in Toronto,
helped in part by the new wireless plans.  ‘Mobile Enthusiasts’  “These plans appeal to people that are interested in the
latest and greatest phones -- those that are real mobile
enthusiasts and can think ahead and know that they need more
than one upgrade in the two years,” Restivo said in an
interview.  The extent to which the new policies ultimately benefit
handset makers may hinge on how much inventory carriers already
have ordered.  Verizon Wireless , for one, may use accelerated
device upgrades to reduce unsold iPhone inventory.  As prices fall, smartphone makers also aren’t getting as
much revenue per phone. Device makers may see just a modest
single-digit percentage gain in annual sales, according to Roger Kay, an analyst at Endpoint Technologies Associates.  Apple, which tends to release new iPhone models once a year
in the summer or fall, stands to  gain  the most from the new
policies because users wouldn’t have much difficulty timing
contracts to qualify for replacements each time a new version
comes out, Sharma said. Other device makers roll out new
handsets on more sporadic schedules.  For some users accustomed to comparison-shopping, the new
plans will only be enticing if they bring significant savings.  “If they’re charging you more to upgrade, I think it’s
going to be a dismal failure,” said Gary Austin, an AT&T
customer for two decades who got an iPhone right after the
handset debuted in 2007. “If they didn’t charge me a fee to do
it, I would maybe consider doing it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Callie Bost in  New York  at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  