-- Norilsk Billionaire CEO Calls for Bank Exit From Metals Storage
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-07-29T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/norilsk-billionaire-ceo-calls-for-bank-exit-from-metals-storage.html
Billionaire  Vladimir Potanin , the
head of the world’s largest producer of nickel and palladium,
urged regulators to take measures to prevent banks from
manipulating markets by storing and trading metals.  “Banks should be focused on their core business, which is
definitely not keeping metals stockpiles,” Potanin,  OAO GMK
Norilsk Nickel (GMKN) ’s chief executive officer, said in an interview
in Moscow. “Regulators should really look into this issue
closely and facilitate measures to change the situation.”  The U.S. Federal Reserve said July 19 it will review a
decade-old decision that physical commodities are complementary
to banking, allowing lenders such as  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  to operate in both industries. The move into
physical commodities has exposed the banks to political and
regulatory pressure, as well as allegations of price
manipulation. On July 27, JPMorgan said it plans to get out of
the business of owning and trading physical commodities.  Banks’ direct involvement in commodities warehousing and
trading creates risks in the market, said Potanin, who is the
biggest shareholder in Norilsk with more than 28 percent.  “It damages the stability of the market and affects the
supply-demand balance, which should define commodities prices,
rather than the amount of metals that banks keep,” Potanin said
in the July 23 interview. “All kinds of non-core bank
activities are bad for the market and the economy in general.”  Nickel Decline  The aluminum market has been hurt the most by stockpiles,
which absorb a “significant” part of global output, while
other metals are also affected to a lesser degree, Potanin said.  Aluminum has declined 13 percent this year to $1,799 a ton
on the  London  Metal Exchange, and nickel dropped 19 percent to
$13,810 a ton. Palladium is up 3.6 percent this year in London.  Norilsk cut nickel production to 67,800 tons in the second
quarter, a 5 percent decline from the previous three months, the
company said today.  “About 35 percent of nickel producers are working below
their cost of production,” Potanin said. “We expect some
output cuts in the near term, which will help the price go up.”  For Related News and Information:
JPMorgan Considers Physical Commodities Exit After Senate Review  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  