-- Novartis Workers Failed to Disclose Ties in Japan Studies
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 2013-07-29T14:00:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/novartis-workers-failed-to-disclose-ties-in-japan-studies.html
Novartis AG (NOVN)  employees failed to
disclose their involvement in Japanese research on the blood-pressure medicine Diovan, including a study that has since been
retracted by a medical journal.  Former Novartis Japan unit employees worked on five Diovan
trials initiated by doctors and didn’t list their affiliations
to the Swiss drugmaker in the studies. The omission was improper
and could have eroded trust in scientific processes, the head of
the company’s Japanese unit said. A report commissioned by
Novartis found no evidence that the ex-workers manipulated
scientific data, the Basel, Switzerland-based drugmaker said in
a briefing held in Tokyo today.  “I’m deeply sorry for the trouble we caused for patients,
their families, medical professionals, for the improper
disclosure and promoting Diovan citing the studies,” said
Yoshiyasu Ninomiya, head of the  Japan  unit.  The trials found Diovan, the company’s second-best selling
medicine with $4.4 billion in sales last year, cut stroke risks
in Japanese people. In February, one of the studies was
retracted by the  European Heart Journal , which said “critical
problems existed with some of the data reported” in the paper.
The data could have been manipulated, according to a  report  by
the university on July 11 on its website.  The five studies were conducted between 2001 and 2004 in
Japan at the Jikei University in Tokyo; Chiba University, east
of Tokyo; Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine, western
Japan; and Nagoya University, central Japan.  The scope of Novartis’s probe into the research, and
whether it was falsified, is limited because Novartis doesn’t
have access to raw data of the studies, Ninomiya said. The
company will work with universities to determine what happened,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in  Tokyo  at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 