-- Obamacare Isn’t Limiting U.S. Job Growth, Administration Says
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-07-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/obamacare-isn-t-weighing-on-job-growth-white-house-says.html
There is no economic evidence the
U.S. health-care overhaul is slowing employment, Obama
administration officials said, pushing back against Republican
characterizations the law is killing jobs.  U.S. employers have added about 7.2 million  jobs  since
February 2010, and employment growth in industries with low
levels of health insurance coverage has outpaced that of
companies more likely to cover their workers, a senior
administration official said at a briefing for reporters. The
official asked not to be named under terms of the briefing.  President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law seeks to expand
coverage to most of the nation’s 50 million uninsured people.
About 7 million people are expected to enroll in health plans
offered by new online marketplaces next year, rising to 25
million by 2018, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .
States are encouraged to expand their Medicaid programs for the
poor to cover people earning close to poverty-level wages.  Republicans who control the  House of Representatives  are
expected to vote for the 38th time this week on legislation that
would undermine the law. They voted July 17 to delay enforcement
of dual requirements in the law that most Americans carry
insurance and large employers provide it to their workers.  “The president’s health-care law is a job-killing train
wreck that is already hurting America’s economy,” House Speaker
 John Boehner , a Republican of  Ohio , said in a statement after
those votes.  Mandate Delay  The administration on July 2 announced a delay until 2015
of the requirement that large businesses insure their workers,
in response to complaints from business lobbying groups.  Industries such as hospitality, waste services and retail
are “low-coverage,” where rank-and-file workers are unlikely
to enjoy health benefits, the White House said in a document
distributed at yesterday’s briefing. Those companies are
considered more sensitive to the Affordable Care Act than
industries that already insure their workers.  If the health law were slowing  job creation , “then one
would expect weaker job growth” in those industries because of
the law’s requirement to provide insurance, the administration
said in the document.  Instead, employment in “low-coverage industries” has
grown 8.3 percent since February 2010, according to the
document. Employment in industries with health benefits has been
slower, growing 5.8 percent.  Workers’ Hours  Workers’ hours also haven’t been cut because of the law,
contrary to Republican assertions, the administration official
said. The health law requires companies employing 50 or more
workers to insure full-time employees, defined as those working
30 hours or more. An economic outlook survey published by the
 Federal Reserve  reported in July that several retailers in
 Chicago  claimed the law “would lead to more part-time and
temporary versus full-time hiring.”  Workers’ hours in retail industries such as restaurants,
electronics and home furnishings increased since March 2010,
when Obama signed the health law, according to the White House
document. An increase in part-time workers reported last month
by the Bureau of Labor Statistics was probably due largely to
furloughs by the federal government, which took place about the
same time as the employment survey, the official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  