-- Loeb’s Third Point Says CF Should Boost Dividend
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-07-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/loeb-s-third-point-says-cf-industries-should-boost-its-dividend.html
Third Point LLC, the hedge fund led
by billionaire  Daniel Loeb , said  CF Industries Holdings Inc. (CF) 
trades at an “unwarranted discount” to its fertilizer and
chemical peers and should pay a larger dividend.  Lower U.S. natural gas prices give CF, the largest U.S.
producer of nitrogen fertilizer, a “sustainable margin” over
foreign competitors, Third Point said yesterday in its second-quarter letter to investors. That provides Deerfield, Illinois
CF with a steady source of cash with which to increase its
payout to investors, the fund said.  CF, in which Third Point said it has a stake, jumped 12
percent to $202.30 in  New York  yesterday, the biggest gain since
2008.  “We believe its structural cash flow generation strength
is misunderstood and that management should deliver a much
larger dividend,”  Third Point  said. “Such a dividend would
highlight the sustainability of its cash flow generation and
lead to a substantial re-rating.”  Loeb, 51, concentrates on event-driven investing, or
trading in stocks or bonds of companies going through mergers,
spinoffs or other changes. Third Point made $655 million last
week when Yahoo! Inc. bought back 40 million of its shares from
the fund, two years after Loeb began agitating for its board to
resign. The fund also has a stake in Sony Corp. and is calling
for a partial sale of the Japanese company’s entertainment unit.  Dan Swenson, a CF spokesman, didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment. The company is scheduled to report second-quarter earnings after the close of trading on Aug. 6.  Expansion Plans?  CF pays a quarterly  dividend  of 40 cents a share and is
expected to earn $7.64 a share in the second quarter excluding
one-time items, according to the average of 19 analysts’
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The stock  declined  11 percent this year before yesterday,
compared with a 7.4 percent gain in the S&P 500 Materials Index.  Third Point’s comments come as the boom in U.S. production
of shale gas transforms U.S. industries from fertilizers to
petrochemicals. CF is among U.S. companies planning to build
production capacity to take advantage of historically low gas
prices. Gas is used as a raw material to make nitrogen
fertilizer, an essential plant nutrient that increases crop
production.  “What’s potentially significant is that Third Point’s
comments could lead to a curtailment in CF’s $3.8 billion
expansion program,”  Mark Gulley , a New York-based analyst at
BGC Partners LP, said yesterday in a telephone interview.
“They’re not talking about that now, but it seems like a
logical next step.”  CF Leverage  A higher payout would still leave CF’s leverage at less
than three times earnings before interest, depreciation and
amortization, Third Point said.  “CF has been underperforming recently despite the
emergence of several positive indicators, including reduced
Chinese plant operating rates, reports of capacity idling in
Eastern Europe, and the shelving of two plant expansions in
 North America ,” New York-based Third Point said.  Third Point manages about $13 billion and returned 3.3
percent in the second quarter and 12.6 percent in the first half
of the year, according to the letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  