-- Moore Said to Hear Canada Wireless Concerns About Verizon
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-07-30T14:53:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/moore-said-to-meet-canada-wireless-ceos-on-verizon-threat.html
Canadian Industry Minister James Moore is consulting mobile-phone company executives as the
government faces pressure to alter policies that may ease the
market entry of U.S. firms such as  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)   Moore, who was appointed by Prime Minister Stephen Harper
July 15, was scheduled to meet in Ottawa yesterday with senior
executives from Canadian companies such as  BCE Inc. (BCE) , Rogers
Communications Inc. and Telus Corp., according to a person
familiar with the meetings. Moore asked to meet the business
leaders to solicit their views on the government’s wireless
policies, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the meetings aren’t public.  Investors have punished the shares of the three largest
wireless providers, partly due to speculation that recent policy
decisions by Harper’s Conservative government will subsidize the
entrance of U.S. carriers such as Verizon into Canada’s market.
In a July 25 statement, BCE said the government’s decision to
block  Canada ’s largest phone companies from buying smaller
domestic competitors will allow New York-based Verizon to
acquire those businesses at “cut-rate prices.”  The meetings show the government, which has pledged to
increase competition in the wireless industry, is listening to
industry concerns, according to Iain Grant, a telecommunications
analyst with the SeaBoard Group, a technology consulting
company.  “I don’t see the government changing course,” Grant said
by phone yesterday from  Montreal .  Share Plunge  Moore’s office declined to provide details about the
meetings. “The minister is meeting with representatives from
various sectors and these meetings are private,” Jessica
Fletcher, director of communications at Industry Canada in
Ottawa, said in an e-mail.  The market value of Montreal-based BCE, Canada’s largest
telephone company,  Rogers (RCI/B)  of Toronto and  Vancouver ’s Telus has
slumped a combined C$13.5 billion ($13.1 billion) through
yesterday from their 2013 highs, partly on concern Verizon may
acquire Toronto-based Wind Mobile and buy wireless spectrum to
build a fourth national carrier in Canada.  BCE’s stock has lost 11 percent since touching a 2013 peak
on May 22, while Telus is down 15 percent from that date. Rogers
declined 20 percent since its year-to-date top April 10.  BCE last week called on Harper to close “loopholes” in
his policies that it says favor U.S. wireless providers, echoing
concerns expressed by Rogers and Telus.  Unfair Subsidies  Verizon said June 18 that it is interested in acquiring
Canadian carriers such as Wind Mobile.  BCE spokesman Mark Langton said in an e-mail the company
doesn’t confirm meetings with government officials. Spokeswomen
for Telus and Rogers didn’t respond to e-mailed requests for
comment.  Other policies that will unfairly benefit Verizon include
the decision to reserve airwaves for new entrants and rules that
force incumbents to offer their networks for use by competitors,
BCE said.  Verizon spokesman  Bob Varettoni  declined to comment on the
Canadian firms’ concerns about his company’s potential entry.
Verizon is “cautiously looking” at entering the market in
Canada, where most of the population lives near the company’s
existing wireless properties, Verizon’s chief financial officer
Francis Shammo, told analysts on a July 18 conference call. “We
continue to explore and have discussions, but, at this point,
it’s just really just an exploratory exercise,” he said.  Industry Support  Business and labor groups have come to the support of the
industry. In a July 26  letter  to Harper, the Ottawa-based
Canadian Council of Chief Executives said the government’s
current policies discriminate against Canadian companies in
favor of large foreign operators.  A healthy investment climate requires government policy and
regulation to be clear, fair and predictable, John Manley, the
organization’s chief executive, said in the letter. “This is
critical to fostering economic growth and to enhancing the
ability of Canadian firms to provide quality goods and services
to Canadian consumers.”  The Communications, Energy and Paperworkers Union of Canada
issued a  statement  yesterday calling the policies “the most
ill-conceived policy the Harper government has come up with.”  In response to Manley’s letter, Andrew MacDougall, director
of communications for Harper, said the government is seeking to
generate more competition in the industry.  ‘Greater Competition’  “Our government’s view has been clear, we want greater
competition across Canada,” MacDougall said in an e-mail.
“This means better prices for Canadian consumers.”  Verizon’s interest comes after the Canadian government
began efforts to boost competition in the wireless sector with a
2008 spectrum auction. Wind Mobile and fellow new entrants
Mobilicity and Public Mobile Inc. bought spectrum set aside for
them in that auction. So far, the three have struggled against
the big-three existing carriers, which control about 90 percent
of Canada’s mobile-phone market.  Verizon seriously began to consider a bid for Wind Mobile
following the June 4 decision by Moore’s predecessor, Christian Paradis, to block  Telus (T) ’s purchase of Mobilicity, a person
familiar with the negotiations said at the time. Paradis also
said in June he would need to approve transfers of spectrum that
had been set aside for smaller competitors in a 2008 auction.
The prospect of bidding for Wind Mobile, which acquired some of
the reserved spectrum in the auction, without having to compete
with one of Canada’s three biggest carriers further encouraged
Verizon, the person said.  Telus has asked the Federal Court to quash the government’s
 policy  on the transfer of wireless spectrum, according to an
application filed in court yesterday.  Telus said the policy Paradis unveiled in June breaks the
original auction rules the company relied on to decide how much
spectrum to buy and what price to pay.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  