-- Tourre Joins SEC in Resting Case in $1 Billion CDO Trial
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-07-29T22:26:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/tourre-joins-sec-in-resting-case-in-1-billion-cdo-trial-1-.html
Fabrice Tourre, the former  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  vice president facing civil fraud claims for
his role in a failed $1 billion investment tied to the housing
collapse, rested his defense without calling any witnesses,
shortly after the Securities and Exchange Commission wrapped up
its case against him.  The SEC rested this morning after presenting video
testimony from a former Goldman Sachs salesman in  London , the
last of 11 witnesses the agency presented over the past two
weeks. Tourre, who had raised the possibility of calling
additional witnesses, including hedge fund billionaire  John Paulson , decided over the weekend not to do so.  U.S. District Judge Katherine Forrest sent the nine jurors
in the case home early, telling them to return for five hours of
closing arguments tomorrow morning in  Manhattan  federal court.
They’re scheduled to begin considering the case July 31. Forrest
denied Tourre’s motion to dismiss the case against him today,
ruling that the SEC has presented enough evidence for the case
to go to the jury.  “At the end of the day, this was a tremendous build-up for
what amounts to a minor case involving a midlevel player whose
personality essentially became the case,” said  Jacob Frenkel , a
former SEC lawyer not involved the case. Frenkel is a partner in
the firm Shulman Rogers Gandal Pordy & Ecker PA in Potomac,
 Maryland . “What we’re seeing so far is that the government’s
best shot at Goldman was a low-level figure.”  Abacus Deal  The SEC claims Tourre intentionally misled participants in
a 2007 deal known as Abacus about the role played by Paulson’s
hedge fund, Paulson & Co. The SEC claims Tourre hid that Paulson
helped choose the portfolio of subprime mortgage-backed
securities underlying Abacus, then made a billion-dollar bet it
would fail.  Eight of the SEC witnesses who testified were identified as
potential defense witnesses by Tourre, including Tourre himself.
His lawyers questioned all of them during the SEC’s case. No
senior Goldman Sachs officials testified in the trial.  Paulson wasn’t charged with any wrongdoing.  The decision not to call any additional witnesses
“highlights the level of confidence the defense has in its
case,” Frenkel said.  A win by the SEC may demonstrate the agency has the will
and resources to win cases at trial, strengthening its hand in
future negotiations with  Wall Street  institutions and their
employees.  A loss, following a defeat last year in a trial against
Brian Stoker, the former head of Citigroup Inc.’s CDO
structuring group, would be the second high-profile trial loss
in cases tied to the 2008 financial meltdown, in the Manhattan
federal courthouse just blocks from Wall Street.  Goldman Settlement  Tourre testified about the Abacus deal before a U.S. Senate
subcommittee in April 2010 alongside other Goldman Sachs
executives. The firm, which is paying Tourre’s legal fees,
settled SEC allegations for $550 million in July 2010, a record
at the time. Tourre has spent part of the time since then
volunteering in  Rwanda  and working on a doctorate in economics
at the  University of Chicago .  Tourre faces unspecified money penalties and a possible ban
from the securities industry. Goldman Sachs, which settled the
allegations against it, faces little additional risk from a
finding of wrongdoing against Tourre.  Among the witnesses called by the SEC were  Paolo Pellegrini , a former top Paulson aide behind the hedge fund’s
strategy of making massive short bets against the U.S. housing
market, winning $15 billion for Paulson at a time when other
investors were losing money. Pellegrini often sparred with lead
SEC lawyer Matthew Martens, at one point repudiating earlier
testimony that he claimed was the product of SEC trickery and
intimidation.  ACA Executive  Jurors also heard from Laura Schwartz, a former executive
of ACA Management LLC, which was chosen to select the 90
subprime residential mortgage-backed securities that served as
the reference portfolio for Abacus, a synthetic collateralized
debt obligation.  Schwartz, who testified she was misled into believing
Paulson was investing in Abacus rather than shorting it, wasn’t
able to recall any specific misleading communications from
Tourre. The SEC has introduced an e-mail from Schwartz, which
was forwarded to Tourre, mistakenly referring to Paulson’s
“equity perspective” on Abacus. Tourre said he doesn’t
remember reading the e-mail.  During Tourre’s own testimony he admitted a draft term
sheet that was forwarded to Schwartz “was not accurate” in
showing that the equity of the Abacus deal was “pre-committed.” Tourre testified it wasn’t planned that the equity,
or “first-loss,” tranche of the Abacus deal would be sold.  Closing Arguments  After hearing closing arguments tomorrow, the four men and
five women on the jury will hear instructions from Judge Forrest
the following morning. They’ll then begin deliberations in the
case. If any jurors need to be discharged, because of sickness
or other reason, a unanimous verdict can be delivered by as few
as six jurors.  Throughout the trial, some of the jurors have appeared
distracted or drowsy as witnesses were questioned about esoteric
financial matters including the structure of CDOs and credit
default swaps. They appeared more engaged when the testimony
turned to Tourre’s late-night e-mails to his then-girlfriend and
the difference between smiling and winking emoticons.  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-cv-03229, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  