-- How Delaware Ditched or Reformed 140 Regulations
-- B y   J a c k   M a r k e l l
-- 2013-07-29T22:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/how-delaware-ditched-or-reformed-140-regulations.html
At a time when partisan talking
points too often drown out genuine attempts to improve
government,  Delaware ’s Democrats and Republicans have found
common ground on an issue central to putting people back to
work: getting rid of bad regulations.  Thoughtful, effective regulations help ensure that we live
in safe communities and give businesses a fair chance to
compete. But too many rules are  outdated , ineffective or overly
complicated. They slow economic growth, overburden government
and distract all of us from our priorities.  In Delaware, we recently completed  a yearlong review  that
evaluated regulations based on whether they serve a necessary
purpose or could be made simpler and more effective. Our wide
range of prominent industries, from biotechnology to poultry
processing, generates diverse regulatory concerns and allows
Delaware to serve as a useful national model.  For example, the state Department of Transportation used to
require new entrance permits for commercial properties every
time a property changed hands. Even if a business was a
drugstore, had always been a drugstore and would always be a
drugstore, each property sale required new permitting. That was
burdensome and didn’t make anyone safer. It will no longer be
required.  Another regulation required installing sidewalks for all
new development, adding unnecessary costs to homes, businesses
and even firehouses built in rural areas.  Flexibility Needed  The result was the construction of sidewalks to nowhere.
Although sidewalks have many benefits, the overly broad
application of this rule had little public benefit and added
costs to new construction. We will be modifying the requirement
to provide builders with more flexibility.  Previously, business owners who needed to retrofit above-ground  storage tanks  had a limited time -- just 60 days -- to
complete a project or they would need a new permit. That put
undue pressure on companies trying to run their day-to-day
operations. We’ve extended the time frame to a year and required
the agency involved to respond swiftly to requests for approval
of retrofitting proposals.  In sum, we are modifying or eliminating 140 regulations out
of about 400 considered, with a focus on older regulations that
most likely need to be updated.  There will always be a need for regulations that protect
our health, environment and public safety. One clear example: a
proposal to require Delaware homes that are dependent on well
water to perform a test when the property is being sold to
provide the buyer with water-quality information. Some argued
that we should just let the buyer beware, but we disagreed.
Clean drinking water is too important.  Although state employees and politicians came up with some
good ideas about making our regulatory systems smarter, some of
the best ideas came from the people who know best: local
businesses and individuals who have to comply with the rules in
the first place. Twelve state agencies that oversee regulations
held three town-hall meetings to allow the public to express
their views.  The revisions to the rules on entrance permits and sidewalk
construction were among those that arose from public comments.
In other cases, we explained why proposed changes, such as
allowing asbestos workers to complete their annual license
renewal by mail rather than in person, would not work. We
opposed this due to past instances of fraudulent documentation.  This process of public engagement will continue. In an era
when businesses have more choices than ever about where to
locate, being smart about our state’s regulatory system is even
more important.  Many politicians impede progress by reflexively condemning
regulations without distinguishing between rules that work and
those that don’t. This approach only produces political theater.
By collaborating with business and responding clearly to
everyone’s concerns -- whether we eventually agree or not --
leaders can make regulatory reform a part of economic growth
plans.  (Jack Markell, a Democrat, is in his second term as
governor of Delaware. He previously served as the state’s
treasurer and was the 13th employee at Nextel Corp., where he
served as senior vice president for corporate development.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Governor Jack Markell at  governor.markell@state.de.us .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 