-- Lloyds Seen Reporting Profit as Government Weighs Stake Sale
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2013-07-29T10:58:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/lloyds-seen-reporting-profit-as-government-weighs-stake-sale.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s
biggest mortgage lender, is set to report its first profitable
six-month period in three years, prompting the government to
start reducing its stake in the lender.  Net income will rebound to about 2.2 billion pounds ($3.4
billion) in the first half, compared with a loss of 676 million
pounds in the year-earlier period, according to Shailesh Raikundlia, an analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank in
London with a sell rating on the stock. Loan impairments fell 31
percent to about 1 billion pounds in the second quarter,
Citigroup Inc. analyst Andrew Coombs wrote in a note to clients.
Lloyds is scheduled to publish its results at 7 a.m. on Aug. 1.  Lloyds’s shares have gained 43 percent this year and Chief
Executive Officer Antonio Horta-Osorio, 49, said in May the bank
would return to profitability in 2013 following three years of
losses. The government may start cutting its 39 percent stake as
soon as next month, said a person with knowledge of the talks.  “Everything now seems to be in place for the government to
start selling its stake,” said Gary Greenwood, an analyst at
Shore Capital in Liverpool,  England , who recommends buying the
shares. “Lloyds’s management team have been very smart, and the
share price reflects that. The question becomes: why wouldn’t
the government sell?”  Stock Rally  The stock was little-changed at 68.27 pence at 10 a.m. in
 London  trading, above the 61 pence the government says it will
break even on its holding after providing a 20 billion-pound
rescue almost five years ago. Lloyds is the  best-performing 
stock among its European peers in the past 12 months.  Horta-Osorio is lowering expenses to strengthen the balance
sheet, applying back-office efficiencies such as integrating
information technology systems and reducing the number of
suppliers Lloyds uses. He plans to cut costs to about 9.6
billion pounds this year, about 1.4 billion pounds less than in
2010.  The bank has eliminated more than 40,000 jobs since its
government bailout, and has announced plans to close more than
half of its 30 overseas units to focus on Britain.  Investors are betting that Lloyds is best placed to benefit
from a recovery in the U.K. economy, rising property prices and
increased clarity over  capital requirements .  ‘Pure Play’  “With  Europe  still in recession and Chinese economic
growth slowing, the U.K. looks like the best place to be after
the U.S. in terms of recovery,” according to Espirito Santo’s
Raikundlia. “Lloyds is seen as a pure play on the U.K. economy,
though that is already in the price.”  The U.K. economy grew 0.6 percent in the second quarter
after expanding by 0.3 percent in the first three months of the
year. The  International Monetary Fund  this month raised its 2013
growth forecast for the U.K. to 0.9 percent from 0.6 percent and
predicted expansion of 1.5 percent next year.  The net interest margin, the difference between the bank’s
income from lending and its cost of funding, will widen to 2
percent in the second quarter from 1.96 percent in the first
three months of the year and 1.91 percent in the second quarter
of 2012, Morgan Stanley banks analyst Chris Manners said in a
note to clients. Lloyds has a full-year target of 1.98 percent.  The stock price was boosted in May, when Lloyds ruled out
raising additional equity to help plug an 8.6 billion pound
capital shortfall identified by regulators. It opted instead to
sell assets considered not essential to the future of the
business.  Since then, the bank has sold holdings of U.S. mortgage-backed securities for about $5 billion in cash and a second
stake in wealth manager  St. James’s Place Plc. (STL)  The firm is also
considering a sale of Scottish Widows Investment Partnership and
its unprofitable Australian business.  Capital Ratio  The disposals boosted Lloyds’s core tier 1 capital ratio
under Basel III rules, a key measure of financial health, to 9.2
percent in the quarter from 8.1 percent in the prior three
months, Manners said.  Lloyds’s earnings will also be lifted by a 1.6 billion-pound dividend payment in June from its Scottish Widows unit.  “Lloyds has enjoyed many encouraging developments this
year, with perceived tail-risks around capital, liquidity and
impairments receding rapidly, though we see this as fully
priced,” said  Ian Gordon , a banks analyst at Investec in
London, who rates the stock a sell.  Pretax profit will probably fall to 598 million pounds in
the second quarter compared with about 2 billion pounds in the
previous three months, depending on the timing of a number of
items that may be included, Gordon said.  Osborne Plan  The bank’s return to profitability and the rally in its
stock price has allowed Chancellor of the Exchequer  George
Osborne  to accelerate plans to recoup some of the taxpayers’
investment before the next general election in May 2015.  “Five years on from the financial crisis, we can now take
the first steps to returning Lloyds to the private sector where
it belongs,” Osborne told financiers in his annual Mansion
House speech in London on June 20.  The U.K. is considering selling as much as 5 billion pounds
of Lloyds shares to money managers as a first step to reducing
its  holding , a person with knowledge of the plan said last week.
The sale, planned for September, may be held sooner if market
conditions allow, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because a decision hasn’t been reached.  RBS  By contrast, Osborne has said he’s “some way off” selling
the government’s 81 percent stake in  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc (RBS)  because it’s saddled with too many bad assets. RBS
will report first-half net income of about 605 million pounds,
compared with a loss of about 2 billion pounds in the year-earlier period, according to  Mark Phin , an analyst at Keefe,
Bruyette & Woods Ltd. RBS reports results on Aug. 2.  Lloyds’s bailout stemmed from its government-brokered
takeover of HBOS Plc during the financial crisis. Since then, a
turnaround has been hampered by about 6.8 billion pounds of
redress for improperly sold loan insurance and 12.1 billion
pounds of losses tied to the real estate collapse in Ireland.  Lloyds Chairman  Win Bischoff  announced in May he would
retire in the next 12 months, saying he was confident the bank’s
rebound from its rescue had progressed enough for him to plan
his succession.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  