-- Pakistan Proposes to Resume India Peace Talks Marred by Clashes
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-07-29T04:14:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/pakistan-proposes-to-resume-india-peace-talks-marred-by-clashes.html
Pakistan  has proposed resuming peace
talks with India after dialogue between the nuclear-armed
neighbors stalled earlier this year amid some of the most
serious border clashes in a decade in disputed Kashmir.  Pakistan suggested dates for talks on access to water from
major rivers, and the Sir Creek maritime border, according to an
Indian government official, who asked not to be named because
he’s not authorized to discuss the matter publicly. India is
also considering a proposal for discussions between Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  and his Pakistani counterpart  Nawaz Sharif  at the  United Nations  in New York at the end of
September, according to the official.  The discussions would be the first peace talks since Sharif
was elected in May and promised to improve ties. He took office
for a record third term months after sustained firing and
alleged cross-border incursions by both armies in the Himalayan
region of Kashmir strained ties.  The border clashes undermined a bid to improve trade and
ease travel restrictions. For more than a week the two
countries’ governments and their militaries traded accusations
of deadly raids across the de facto frontier. Indian Foreign
Minister Salman Khurshid said the clashes between the nations
meant an end to “business as usual” between the countries.  India and Pakistan have fought three wars since their
independence from the British rule in 1947, two of them over
their claims to Kashmir. The wrangling over the demarcation of
the frontier at Sir Creek, an Arabian Sea waterway that divides
the Indian state of Gujarat from Sindh in Pakistan, is one of
several territorial disputes that plague relations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  