-- Pfizer Splits Up Operations Ahead of Possible Breakup
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-07-29T20:14:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/pfizer-to-split-internal-operations-ahead-of-possible-breakup.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s biggest
drugmaker, said it will split up its three major internal
businesses and shuffle the management that leads them, part of
the company’s preparation for a further break up.  Pfizer in 2012 sold its infant nutrition business to  Nestle
SA (NESN)  for $11.9 billion and this year spun off its $4.3 billion-a-year animal-health unit. The latest reorganization divides
what’s left of the company into two brand-name drug units and a
generics business, the company said in a statement today.  Chief Executive Officer  Ian Read  is positioning the New
York-based drugmaker for a potential breakup that may leave just
two units intact: A brand-name drug business with higher margins
and growth, and a cash-generating “value” business composed of
the company’s off-patent products. Such a split could happen in
two to three years, Read has said.  “This represents the next steps in Pfizer’s journey to
further revitalize our innovative core,” Read said in the
statement. “Our new commercial operating model will provide
each business with an enhanced ability to respond to market
dynamics, greater visibility and focus, and distinctive
capabilities.”  Pfizer  shares  rose less than 1 percent to $29.54 at 4 p.m.
New York time, after jumping 24 percent over the last 12 months.
The company reports second-quarter earnings tomorrow.  New Leaders  The changes will give  investors  a detailed look at the
financial results of each segment to help them assess a split.
Geno Germano, who previously ran Pfizer’s specialty and oncology
units, will head one, the company said. Amy Schulman, the
company’s top lawyer who also ran the drugmaker’s consumer unit,
will head another.  John Young , who ran Pfizer’s primary care
business, will head the generics business.  Germano’s business unit will have drugs in inflammation and
immunology, cardiovascular disease, rare disease, men’s and
women’s health, pain and neurosciences, and rare diseases. That
would include  new potential blockbusters  Eliquis, a blood
thinner, and Xeljanz, a rheumatoid arthritis drug.  Schulman’s business will include vaccines and cancer drugs,
as well as consumer products. Palbociclib, an experimental
therapy being studied in breast and other cancers, has the
potential to be one of Pfizer’s biggest future products. It
would also include Prevnar, a pneumococcal disease vaccine that
was the company’s fourth-biggest product in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  