-- Pimco Bets on Bonds After Worst Run Since 1994: Australia Credit
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-07-29T02:33:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/pimco-bets-on-bonds-after-worst-run-since-1994-australia-credit.html
Australian bonds are attractive
after their worst run of losses since 1994 because the central
bank will need to lower interest rates as mining investment
drops, Pacific Investment Management Co. said.  Pimco, which runs the world’s biggest bond fund, is
favoring federal debt and taking positions in  interest-rate
swaps  on expectations a U.S.-led run-up in global yields is at
odds with the slowing Australian economy, said Adam Bowe, a
Sydney-based  money manager . Sovereign notes fell for a third
quarter in the three months to June 30, matching the length of a
more severe slump 19 years ago.  “We don’t think we’re at the end of the RBA’s easing
cycle,” said Bowe. “The growth outlook over the next 18 months
is quite challenging: first we get the leveling off in mining
investment and then the level of investment will likely come
down resulting in a potentially significant detraction from
growth from that sector.”  Areas such as residential construction and commodity
exports are unlikely to fill the gap left by declining mining
investment, the biggest contributor to Australian growth last
year, Bowe said. The extra yield the nation’s 10-year bonds
offer over  U.S. Treasuries  is narrowing for a third year,
heading for the longest stretch of annual declines since the
early 1990s, when the smaller nation last experienced recession.  Sagging Growth  Australia, the fastest-growing major developed nation on
average over the past five years, is struggling as a record
mining boom peaks.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia in May reiterated its
forecast for “below trend” growth of 2.5 percent this year and
predicted a 2014 expansion of between 2.5 percent and 3.5
percent. The median estimate among economists matches the RBA’s
for this year and projects growth of 2.8 percent next year,
according to Bloomberg surveys.  In a July 3 speech, RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  said some
industries are “well placed to expand once they have the
confidence to do so.”  “That confidence seems pretty subdued right now,” he
added.  Swaps traders are betting on 47 basis points of cuts to the
nation’s 2.75 percent benchmark rate by December, according to
Bloomberg calculations. The RBA is the only major central bank
expected to substantially ease policy over the next 12 months,
Credit Suisse Group AG indexes show.  Favoring Sovereigns  Those expectations didn’t prevent Australia’s benchmark 10-year  yield  from rising to a 14-month high of 4.04 percent on
June 24, as signs that the  Federal Reserve  may pare back its
bond-purchase program led to a sell-off in debt securities.  “We prefer to hold Aussie  government bonds  and high-quality spread assets like swap as we think interest rates will
come down,” said Bowe. “The domestic outlook and the rise in
global yields, due to the debate on whether the Fed will taper
in the near-term, provide attractive valuations for Australian
government bonds.”  The 10-year  rate  rose 47 basis points since Dec. 31 to 3.74
percent today, or 1.18 percentage points more than U.S.
Treasuries of similar maturity. The three-year yield was at 2.62
percent.  Cautious on Corporates  Pimco said it is “fairly cautious” on corporate debt
given concerns about the economy and is favoring high-quality
issuers.  Prices of Australian sovereign bonds dropped 2.6 percent
this year with total returns of 0.1 percent till July 26,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. The nation’s
corporate bonds declined 0.8 percent in price, with a 2.6 return
once yields are included, the indexes show.  Australian businesses grew pessimistic in the second
quarter about near-term prospects, while a lift in non-mining
investment intentions is unlikely to be sufficient to fill the
gap left by a slowdown in resources, a National  Australia  Bank
Ltd. quarterly survey showed July 18.  “Even if mining investment remains at a high level and
just goes sideways this year, that’s a 2 percent contribution to
growth from last year that goes somewhere close to zero,” said
Bowe. “There’s certainly signs of policy traction in the
housing market but in terms of housing construction, you’re
talking about a sector that might provide about a quarter
percent to growth.”  Aussie’s Drop  The boost from the Aussie’s 10 percent drop over the past
three months may be more muted than in previous periods as
businesses that changed models to account for its strength will
want assurance recent declines are likely to persist, he said.  The world’s fifth most-traded currency fetched 92.73 U.S.
cents as of 12:30 p.m. in Sydney after remaining above $1 for a
record 10 months till May 9. It will fall to 90 cents by Dec.
31, according to the median estimate of forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg.  “We think the  exchange rate  remains too elevated relative
to fundamentals and we think that lower  interest rates  and, or,
a lower currency is required to help transition the country away
from mining-assisted growth,” said Bowe. “Low policy rates
will likely be required for some time yet. Eventually Australia
will get an economic return from all this mining investment
through stronger exports, but that’s not expected to kick in
till 2015.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  