-- Pope Francis Says Gay Tendencies Not the Problem in Vatican
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2013-07-29T13:58:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/pope-francis-says-gay-tendencies-not-the-problem-in-vatican.html
Pope Francis said he finds nothing
objectionable about homosexual impulses and urged gay members of
the clergy to follow their mission and eschew lobbying within
the Church.  “The problem isn’t having this tendency,” Francis told
reporters on his flight from  Rio de Janeiro  to  Rome , according
to video broadcast today on SkyTG24. “The problem is having
political lobbies.”  Francis is reaching out to marginalized groups as the
church seeks to rehabilitate an image tarnished by child sex
abuse cases and allegations of  money laundering . Francis,
elected pope in March, made his first trip outside of Rome to a
migrant camp on the Mediterranean island of Lampedusa on July 8
to chide  Italy  into embracing refugees. In Rio, Francis’s first
mission abroad, the pope implored Catholic youths to get
involved in politics.  Francis told reporters on the plane he won’t judge gay
people who serve the church in good faith, according to reports
by news agencies including the Associated Press and Ansa.
Federico Lombardi, a spokesman for the Vatican, confirmed that
Francis spoke about gay issues, while saying he couldn’t confirm
the comments until the official transcript was prepared.  Francis drew 3 million to mass on Rio’s Copacabana beach
yesterday and told his flock to set out together to evangelize.
The pope’s appearance marked Catholic World Youth Day and
attracted the attendance of Brazil’s President  Dilma Rousseff ,
her Argentine counterpart Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner and
Bolivia’s leader  Evo Morales .  “There are no borders, no limits to where Jesus sends
us,” Francis said. “He sends us to evangelize to everyone, and
not just those who appear closest, most open, and most
welcoming. It’s for everyone. Do not have fear.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  