-- Pope Calls on Youth to Become Activists as He Bids Rio Goodbye
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-07-29T03:17:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/pope-calls-on-youth-to-become-activists-as-he-bids-rio-goodbye.html
Pope Francis’s first trip abroad
wrapped up in Rio de Janeiro yesterday with the pontiff calling
on Catholic youth to be more activist in the wake of protests
that roiled  Latin America ’s largest country in the past month.  “The young people in the streets want to be protagonists
of change; please don’t let others be the protagonists, it
should be you,” Francis told a crowd of millions in Copacabana.
“You have the future in your hands, and the future will arrive.
I ask that you be protagonists, overcoming apathy and offer a
Christian response to social and political worries.”  The address followed a speech July 27 where the Argentine-born pope said dialog is always preferable to violent protest.
He told residents of a slum on July 25 not to allow corruption
to extinguish hope for change and yesterday told young
volunteers to rebel against societal norms and embrace
traditional values such as commitment and marriage.  Francis’s visit for the week-long World Youth Day comes on
the heels of  Brazil ’s largest protests in two decades over
transport prices, public spending priorities and corruption.
During the trip, the pope made clear that Catholic political
engagement is legitimate, according to Virgilio Arraes, a
professor at the International Relations Institute at the
University of Brasilia.  “The pope’s message is that, yes, the church has to
participate,” Arraes said by phone. “The church can’t remain
isolated on the spiritual side. The religious community needs to
complain that people don’t have adequate schools, hospitals or
decent public transport.”  Copacabana to Ipanema  Protests continued during the pope’s trip, with the police
using tear gas and rubber bullets to disperse protesters outside
the Guanabara palace in Rio, where he met with authorities on
his first day there. Dozens of demonstrators on July 27 railed
against  government spending  on the visit while others joined a
feminist march from the Rio beaches of Copacabana to Ipanema.  The demonstrations were smaller than those seen last month
when more than a million people took to the streets in a
movement that began in reaction to bus fare increases. Protests
expanded to encompass corruption, poor health care and education
as well as  income inequality .  The protesters must be heard, the pope said in an interview
aired last night by Globo television, adding he is not familiar
with all their demands.  “A young man who doesn’t protest doesn’t suit me,” he
said in the interview. “A young man is essentially a
nonconformist, and that is a very beautiful thing. You need to
listen to young people, giving them outlets to express
themselves and ensure they don’t get manipulated.”  Demands  President  Dilma Rousseff  during the pope’s visit said
increased unrest reflects demands for greater quality of life
after her predecessor and political mentor Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva lifted 40 million people from poverty. Even with those
advances, Brazil ranks 14th worst in income equality, below
Nigeria and  Russia , among 154 countries listed in the  World
Bank ’s 2013 World Development Indicators.  “The pope is in a sense endorsing protests against
corruption,” Paul Freston, religion and politics professor at
Wilfrid Laurier University, said by phone. “There won’t be
large-scale protests again until next year just before the World
Cup, when the pope’s words might be remembered and encourage
people to take part.”  The 2014  World Cup  will take place in cities across Brazil,
with Rio hosting the finals. Rio also will hold the 2016  Olympic
Games .  Brazil Challenges  Francis’s trip highlighted the challenges Brazil faces to
host global events. The pope’s convoy got stuck in traffic when
he arrived and the subway lost power one evening, preventing
pilgrims from reaching events. A field prepared for the final
Mass was flooded by rainfall, forcing organizers to move the
event to Copacabana.  The final Mass attracted about 3 million people, according
to estimates made by organizers of World Youth Day.  People from nations across the globe blanketed Copacabana
beach after camping out Saturday night to hear the pope’s words.
Rousseff, her Argentine counterpart Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner and Bolivia’s leader  Evo Morales  attended Mass where
Francis told the faithful that he is personally counting on them
to spread God’s word.  “Everyone has to be a protagonist of transformation, and
political issues and religious issues are united in that
sense,” said Jose Eudes, 24, a seminary student from Brasilia
who traveled to Rio for the celebrations. “We are not
indifferent to everything that happens in culture or the state,
and we need to work for a better world.”  Church Leaders  Francis used his visit to indicate Brazilian church leaders
should do more to stem the exodus to Pentecostal churches,
according to Tom Quigley, former policy adviser for Latin
American and Caribbean affairs for the U.S. Conference of
Catholic Bishops.  The share of Latin Americans who are Catholic fell to 72
percent in 2010 from 90 percent a century earlier, according to
a March report from the Pew Research Center. Evangelicals, part
of the Protestant movement, made up 22 percent of Brazil’s
population in the 2010 census compared with 15 percent a decade
earlier.  The pope urged bishops to embrace poverty and humility as
he insisted on greeting crowds from an open-air pope-mobile and
traveled in a hatchback rather than limo or other luxury car.  World Youth Day “enabled Francis to express his papacy in
a way he hasn’t yet been able to,” Quigley said by phone from
Annandale, Virginia. “This was the most full-blown opportunity
for him to be himself, to preach the way he has developed, show
his own approach to the papacy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  