-- Essilor to Buy PPG’s Lens-Venture Stake for $1.73 Billion
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2013-07-29T16:41:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/ppg-to-get-1-73-billion-from-sale-of-sunglass-lens-maker-stake.html
Essilor International SA (EI)  agreed to
buy full control of its Transitions Optical venture from  PPG
Industries Inc. (PPG)  for $1.73 billion to strengthen its tinted-products line in the French lensmaker’s biggest deal ever.  The purchase of PPG’s 51 percent stake in the partnership
will add to earnings the first year that Transitions Optical is
integrated, Essilor, based in the Paris suburb of Charenton-le-Pont, said today in a statement.  Transitions Optical makes polarizing lenses that adapt to
changing light and block harmful solar rays. The segment is
expanding at twice the rate of the optical industry, said
Essilor, the world’s biggest maker of eyeglass lenses. The
Pinellas Park, Florida-based venture had 2012 sales of $814
million. The takeover also includes Intercast, a supplier of sun
lenses based in Parma,  Italy , Essilor said.  “Essilor has now the sole leadership in the photochromic
market, which is highly profitable and is enjoying higher growth
rates than other segments of the global optical market,” Cedric Rossi, an analyst at Bryan Garnier & Co. in Paris, wrote in a
note to clients today.  Shares Rise  Essilor shares rose 6.2 percent to 85.62 euros in Paris
trading today, their biggest jump since Oct. 23, 2008. The stock
has advanced 13 percent this year, valuing the manufacturer at
18.5 billion euros ($25 billion). PPG shares were up 1.3 percent
as of 12:23 p.m. in  New York  trading.  The transaction will help Essilor’s earnings per share by
“a minimum” of 5 percent annually as of the second year of
integration, and “should push the organic sales of Essilor by
half a point, but maybe more, starting in year three,” Chief
Executive Officer Hubert Sagnieres said on a conference call
with analysts today. Demand is “strong” in the photochromic
industry, he said.  The purchase will be entirely funded from Essilor’s cash
resources and medium-term financing, the French company said.  The deal gives Transitions Optical a $3.4 billion
enterprise value, Pittsburgh-based PPG said in a separate
statement. The U.S. paintmaker will continue to supply dyes to
the business, it said. The transaction should be completed by
the first half of 2014, PPG and Essilor said.  Buyback Plans  PPG plans to use proceeds from the sale for  acquisitions 
and share repurchases, it said. The company, which suspended
stock buybacks at the start of the second quarter because of the
negotiations with Essilor, will restart the transactions, with a
targeted range of $500 million to $750 million for the year, PPG
said.  “We are pleased with the enterprise value of the
transaction, which reflects a valuation multiple midway between
PPG’s and Essilor’s multiples, benefiting both parties,” PPG
Chief Executive Officer Charles Bunch said in the statement.  The disposal ends 23 years of PPG’s involvement in
Transitions. The business is better off being part of a focused
optical company, given the rapidly changing nature of the
industry, according to Bunch.  Essilor will invest in Transitions Optical and will
continue looking for “bolt-on deals” to accelerate growth
worldwide, the French company said today. The manufacturer
expects “significant” cost savings and revenue boosts from
buying Transitions, Sagnieres said, without elaborating.  “Our familiarity with Transitions makes us confident in
our ability to extract those synergies and makes this really,
for shareholders, a low-risk investment,” he said. “It’s a
company we know well, so the integration process should be
smooth.”  Jones Day  is representing Essilor on the transaction,
with Rothschild Group as a financial adviser. PPG’s counsel is
Wachtell Lipton Rosen & Katz and  Hogan Lovells , with Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. on the financial side.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Geneva at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  