-- Putin’s Big Fish Story Leaves Russians in Doubt
-- B y   L e o n i d   B e r s h i d s k y
-- 2013-07-29T22:03:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/putin-s-big-fish-story-leaves-russians-in-doubt.html
Russian President  Vladimir Putin ’s
bizarre displays of machismo may get more laughs than his
 efforts at humor . That, at least, was the case with the giant
pike that Putin supposedly hooked in the remote Siberian region
of Tuva.  On July 26, the Kremlin released a  video  of Putin pulling a
large pike out of a lake, lifting it by the gills and tenderly
kissing it on the cheek. Presidential press secretary Dmitri Peskov had a whole  story  to tell the public about the catch.  According to Peskov, for a long time Putin had no luck at
Lake Tokpak-Khol in a remote corner of Tuva, bordering on
Mongolia. Then a gamekeeper suggested he use a locally made
spoon lure called the Czar Fish, and it worked a small miracle.  The gamekeeper “said he had never seen anything like it,”
Peskov said. “Putin caught a pike that weighed more than 21
kilograms. It took him 30 minutes to pull it out.” As Putin
lifted his catch out of the water with a hoop net, the
gamekeeper cautioned him that the pike could bite. “I’ll bite it
myself,” Putin quipped, according to Peskov.  That may explain the kiss in the video. Peskov said the
pike was made into a delicious meal.  The fish story is clearly aimed at bolstering Putin’s
support in a country with an estimated 25 million fishing
enthusiasts. It could also easily backfire.  Popular blogger Andrei Malgin  published  a mini-investigation of Putin’s fishing vacation. Pointing out that the
trip wasn’t on the president’s official schedule, Malgin dug up
old photographs from previous Putin trips to Tuva that he
claimed looked remarkably similar to the newly released
pictures.  “Doesn’t it look to you as if we are being fed canned food
stored up some years ago?” Malgin asked his readers.  Others agreed, pointing out similar details of his outfit.
“What if Putin has been dead for years and we don’t know?” one
reader wrote in the comments. Other bloggers noted that Putin is
wearing a watch that looks exactly like the one he gave to a
gamekeeper during a previous vacation.  “The clothes are new, and the watch is exactly like the one
he had back then,” Peskov  responded . “He gave away the original
watch and then bought exactly the same kind for himself because
he is attached to it.”  On the clothing and the watch, it was Malgin’s word against
Peskov’s: The press had not been invited for the unscheduled
Tuva trip.  The giant pike was another matter. Experienced fishermen,
even those sympathetic to Putin, simply could not believe it
actually weighed 21 kilos -- about 46 pounds.  “Here’s what I think about the pike,” pro-Kremlin columnist
Maxim Kononenko  wrote  in his blog. “Any fisherman can see that
it simply cannot weigh 21 kilograms. For one thing, fish of that
size are extremely rare. For another, it would be up to two
meters (6’6”) long and you’d be able to fit a bucket in its
mouth.” Kononenko suggested that the scale used to weigh the
fish was marked in pounds rather than kilograms. If it read 21,
that would mean the pike actually weighed about 9.5 kilograms.  Alfred Kokh, a deputy prime minister under President  Boris Yeltsin , took a more scientific approach. “Putin’s height is 175
centimeters maximum,” he  wrote  on Facebook. “Approximating the
pike to a cylinder with a diameter of 10 centimeters and a
length of 120 centimeters -- a complimentary assumption -- we
calculate the volume of the pike to be 9420 cubic centimeters,
or roughly 10 liters.”  Kokh’s post received almost 1,500 likes. Again, Peskov had
to defend the president. “I was especially amazed at blogger
Kokh, who, if I am not mistaken, wrote that the fish could not
have weighed 20 kilograms,” he  told  the Russian News Service. “I
was personally present at the weighing, I saw the scale, and it
really was over 20 kilos.”  By then, the fish’s size and the circumstances of its
capture hardly mattered: The Kremlin was on the defensive. In
2013, Putin is no longer a recent underdog turned national
leader. He is a dictator who has been in power for 13 years, and
at least as many people mock him as admire him. He needs a
change of public relations strategy no less than his country
needs some change at the top.  (Leonid Bershidsky, an editor and novelist, is Moscow
correspondent for World View.)  To contact the writer of this article:  bershidsky@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Mark
Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 