-- RBC Plans Australian Covered Bond Market’s First Sale for 2013
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2013-07-29T08:35:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/rbc-plans-australian-covered-bond-market-s-first-sale-for-2013.html
Royal Bank of Canada  is marketing
Australian dollar-denominated covered bonds, the first such
transaction by any borrower this year.  Canada’s largest lender by assets is planning to sell
three-year notes in its debut covered bond offering in the
Australian market, according to Gerard Perrignon, managing
director of debt capital markets at  RBC Capital Markets  in
Sydney. The securities are being marketed at about 55 basis
points more than the swap rate, according to a person familiar
with the matter who asked not to be identified because the terms
haven’t been set.  “RBC views the Aussie dollar market as an important source
of diversity away from its core funding markets in  North
America ,” said Perrignon. “This opportunity has arisen as a
result of economics in the Australian-dollar market being
comparable to the economics in core North American markets.”  Covered bonds, which are backed by the borrower and
mortgages that stay on its balance sheet, were last sold in
Australia by Suncorp-Metway Ltd. in November, when the Brisbane-based lender priced A$600 million ($555 million) of five-year
securities, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Since then, home-loan providers have opted to raise wholesale funds through
either unsecuritized notes and the revived market for
residential mortgage-backed securities.  Covered notes, a form of issuance that was pioneered in
18th century Prussia, typically carry AAA credit ratings and
tend to be issued at narrower spreads than debt that is not
backed by collateral. The RBC transaction is expected to price
tomorrow and is being managed by the bank itself,  Australia  &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. and National Australia Bank Ltd.,
Perrignon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  