-- RBI Says Restoring India Rupee Stability Is Key Policy Objective
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2013-07-29T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/rbi-says-restoring-indian-rupee-stability-is-priority-for-policy.html
The  Reserve Bank  of  India  said
steadying the rupee to help preserve economic stability has
become the priority for monetary policy and that more steps are
needed to curb the nation’s current-account deficit.  “The priority for monetary policy now is to restore
stability in the  currency market  so that macro-financial
conditions remain supportive of growth,” the Reserve Bank said
in an economic review before today’s rate decision in Mumbai.
Such a strategy will work only if reinforced by “structural
reforms” to reduce the deficit and spur investment, it said.  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao raised two  interest rates  in
July, restricted daily fund injections into the banking system
and tightened lenders’ reserve ratios, curbing rupee supply to
stem the currency’s plunge. All except one of 32 analysts in a
Bloomberg News  survey  predict he will keep the benchmark
repurchase rate at 7.25 percent, in the last scheduled monetary-policy review due before his term ends in September.  “The RBI’s focus has shifted to curbing rupee
volatility,” said Upasna Bhardwaj, an economist at ING Vysya
Bank Ltd. in  Mumbai . The recent steps taken by the central bank
may hurt growth if they stay in place for an extended period,
she said.  The central bank’s measures have contributed to an
appreciation of about 3 percent in the rupee versus the dollar
since the currency touched a record low July 8.  Seeking Stability  It weakened 0.6 percent to 59.42 at the close in Mumbai
yesterday, while the yield on the 7.16 percent government bond
due May 2023 fell to 8.13 percent from 8.16 percent on July 26.
The S&P BSE Sensex index closed down 0.8 percent.  The rupee, which has depreciated about 10 percent in the
past six months, has been hurt by India’s record current-account
shortfall. The prospect of reduced U.S. monetary stimulus, which
has spurred capital outflows in  emerging markets  from  Indonesia 
to  Brazil , has also weighed on the currency.  “Policy initiatives were taken in mid-July to address
exchange rate volatility so that it does not risk macroeconomic
stability and growth sustainability,” the Reserve Bank said.  The recent “liquidity tightening measures” provide “at
best some breathing time,” it said.  The most important global risk is that “at some stage,
exit from accommodative monetary policy in the U.S. may tighten
global liquidity,” with implications for capital flows to
nations including India, the Reserve Bank said.  Growth, Inflation  India’s  economy  will expand 5.7 percent in the fiscal year
through March 2014, based on a survey of forecasts from other
organizations, yesterday’s report showed. The previous survey in
May projected 6 percent.  Wholesale-price  inflation  will average 5.3 percent, the
survey said, compared with an earlier 6.5 percent estimate.  Currency depreciation and rising fuel costs are among
upside price pressures, the monetary authority said.  Subbarao on July 15  increased  the marginal standing
facility rate and the  bank rate  by 200 basis points to 10.25
percent. That contrasts with 25 basis-point repurchase rate cuts
in January, March and May each to spur growth.  Gross domestic product growth slowed to a decade-low 5
percent in 2012-2013. Wholesale-price inflation in  Asia ’s third-largest economy accelerated to 4.86 percent in June. Consumer-price gains quickened to 9.87 percent.  The recovery in economic expansion may take time and is
expected to take “shape slowly as the year progresses,” the
central bank said in the report, adding “sustainable recovery
requires control over consumer price inflation.”  The current-account deficit may have widened in April
through June, it said. The gap is likely to remain above the
sustainable level of 2.5 percent of GDP, the central bank said.  The government since September last year has eased
restrictions on foreign-direct investment in industries such as
aviation and retail, seeking to woo more stable inflows to help
finance the imbalance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  