-- Treasuries Fall on Fed-Tapering Speculation Before GDP, Jobs
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-07-29T21:26:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/treasuries-stay-lower-as-economists-say-unemployment-to-fall.html
Treasuries fell, with 10-year note
yields reaching almost the highest level in more than two weeks,
before the  Federal Reserve  meets this week to discuss whether to
taper its $85 billion a month debt-purchase program.  U.S. debt  declined before reports forecast to show the  U.S.
economy  grew in the second quarter and the  unemployment rate 
dropped in July. Gross domestic product expanded at a 1 percent
annualized rate last quarter, a report July 31 may show. The
difference in yield between Treasuries maturing in two and 30
years reached the widest in almost two years.  “We are moving closer and closer to tapering, and with no
new news, the risk right now is for higher rates, not lower,
unless we get some different news,” said Tom Tucci, managing
director and head of Treasury trading in  New York  at CIBC World
Markets Corp. “Fair value is closer to 2.75 percent, given the
state of the economy and the Fed’s stance.”  The benchmark 10-year yield rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 2.60 percent as of 5 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The price of the 1.75
percent note due May 2023 declined 10/32, or $3.13 per $1,000
face amount, to 92 21/32. The yield reached 2.63 percent on July
25, the most since July 10.  Yield Difference  The difference between two- and 30-year debt yields widened
to 336 basis points, the most on a closing basis since September
2011.  U.S government securities due in 10 years and more dropped
1.5 percent in July, according to the Bloomberg U.S. Treasury
 Bond Index (BUSY10) , amid speculation the central bank is moving toward
reducing debt purchases. Treasuries have lost investors 2.4
percent this year, the index shows.  Ten-year yields will climb to 2.63 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg survey with the most recent projections
given the heaviest weightings.  “The yield rise we’ve seen has been driven by the Fed,
their view on the economy and when and what will drive them to
pull back accommodation,” said Larry Milstein, managing
director in New York of government-debt trading at R.W.
Pressprich & Co. “This week will be critical with the Fed
decision and the employment and GDP reports, all of which may be
market moving. The big question will be how is the economy
recovering and what will it mean for the Fed.”  Corporate Sales  Some bond dealers sold Treasuries in order to reduce the
risk that a rise in bond yields would hurt the value of debt
they are preparing to sell. Firms often take a short position in
 U.S. government debt  as when they underwrite corporate issuance
in order to cancel out the interest-rate risk they take on
during the selling process.  International Business Machines Corp., the largest
computer-services provider, is planning to offer $2.15 billion
of dollar-denominated bonds in a two-part sale as soon as today.  “There’s hedge activity related to corporate issuance,”
said  Christopher Sullivan , who oversees $2.2 billion as chief
investment officer at United Nations Federal Credit Union in New
York. “In the absence of much volume, hedging-related activity
like that can have a larger influence on prices than it normally
would.”  Treasury trading volume at ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer broker of U.S. government debt, decreased to $194.5
billion today, the lowest since July 22 and below the average of
$274 billion this month.  Debt Auctions  The Treasury is scheduled to announce its quarterly  funding 
needs on July 31, and a survey of the 21 primary dealers shows
government sales will be cut by $40 billion to $100 billion
during the next year.  About two-thirds of those responding, including Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co., see reductions this
year, possibly as soon as next month. The U.S. issued $2.153
trillion in 2012.  The U.S. Treasury Department said today it will borrow
about 6.3 percent less in the July-to-September period than it
projected three months ago as a stronger economy and job growth
help narrow the nation’s budget deficit.  Issuance of net marketable debt of $209 billion compared
with $223 billion initially forecast on April 29, after a net
paydown last quarter, the Treasury said today in  Washington .
Borrowing needs for the October-December quarter were estimated
at $235 billion. In a statement accompanying today’s borrowing
needs, Treasury  Fed Buys  The Fed, which has been buying $45 billion of Treasuries
and $40 billion of mortgage bonds each month to put downward
pressure on borrowing costs, will start trimming purchases in
September, according to economists.  The central bank will meet on July 30-31 after keeping its
target for overnight lending in a range of zero to 0.25 percent
since December 2008. Policy makers said in a June 19 statement
that leaving the federal funds rate in that range “will be
appropriate at least as long” as unemployment remains above 6.5
percent and the forecast for inflation in one-to-two years
doesn’t exceed 2.5 percent.  “Moves will be exacerbated as we get closer toward GDP and
the unemployment number,” said  Michael Franzese , senior vice
president of fixed-income trading at ED&F Man Capital Markets in
New York. “It’s a slow, quiet, illiquid market.”  A report Aug. 2 may show the unemployment rate dropped to
7.5 percent, from 7.6 percent, and the U.S. added 185,000 jobs
in July, compared with 195,000 the previous month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  