-- Banks Commodity Business Drawing Sharper U.S. Regulator Scrutiny
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-07-30T22:34:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/regulators-face-scrutiny-on-banks-commodities-at-senate-hearing.html
U.S. financial regulators will boost
scrutiny of banks’ commodities holdings and use their authority
to pursue evidence of fraud and manipulation, the heads of two
agencies told lawmakers.  “We’re a market regulator overseeing the commodity
futures, swaps markets and have clear authority to police
markets for fraud, manipulation and other abuses,” Commodity
Futures Trading Commission Chairman  Gary Gensler  said at a
Senate Banking Committee hearing where he testified yesterday
alongside Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Mary Jo White. “We will use those authorities appropriately where we
see abuses and pursue it.”  Gensler and White, who said she would ask the SEC staff to
weigh changes to disclosure requirements, responded to questions
raised by Senator  Sherrod Brown  about whether markets and
consumers are being harmed under rules that permit lenders
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to own and trade commodities. New
York-based JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank, agreed yesterday to
pay $410 million over claims that it manipulated power markets
in 2010 and 2011.  “It seems like there’s a huge amount of conflict of
interest and a huge amount of market manipulation and it doesn’t
seem like much action,” Senator  Jeff Merkley , an Oregon
Democrat, said in a follow-up to questions from Brown, an Ohio
Democrat. “When these prices go up it’s a huge tax on the
economy whether it’s in the price of a beer can or aluminum
siding.”  Revenue Generator  The 10 largest Wall Street banks generated about $1 billion
from physical commodity units in 2012, and about $5 billion from
commodity derivatives and financing, according to data from
analytics company Coalition Ltd.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  ranked
No. 1 in all commodities revenue, including derivatives,
followed by JPMorgan.  Goldman Sachs and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  were in the commodity
business before converting to bank holding companies during the
2008 credit crisis. The New York-based companies are permitted
under a 1999 law to keep commodities businesses they were in
before 1997.  The  Federal Reserve  said this month that it will review a
decade-old decision letting banks trade commodities seen as
complementary to banking. JPMorgan said on July 26 that it will
sell or spin off commodity holdings including warehouses, stakes
in  power plants  and traders of gas and coal.  Gensler, declining to comment on specific investigations,
said his agency has legal authority to pursue manipulation of
markets for metals and other commodities. His agency has sent
letters to companies asking them not to destroy documents
relating to warehouses registered by exchanges such as the
London Metal Exchange or Chicago Mercantile Exchange, according
to a copy of the letter obtained by Bloomberg.  ‘Clear Authority’  Goldman Sachs in  February 2010 bought Romulus, Michigan-based Metro International Trade Services LLC, which as of July
11 operated 34 out of 39 storage facilities licensed by the LME
in the Detroit area, according to LME data. Since then, aluminum
stockpiles in Detroit-area warehouses surged 66 percent and now
account for 80 percent of U.S. inventory monitored by the LME
and 27 percent of total LME stockpiles, exchange data from July
18 show.  The CFTC should undergo further review of the LME to
preserve market integrity, Senator  Debbie Stabenow , a Michigan
Democrat and chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, said
in a letter to Gensler today. Stabenow asked the agency to
describe its oversight and the status of a 2001 CFTC letter
allowing LME to access U.S. customers.  White said that she recently asked staff at the SEC to
examine questions regarding disclosure of information about the
markets. “I am looking into that and the range of possible
disclosure issues that could be involved as well,” she said.  ‘Undue Risk’  Brown has said the Fed needs to give clear guidance on what
activities should be allowed “and consider placing limitations
on those that expose banks and taxpayers to undue risk.”  Senator  Carl Levin , the Michigan Democrat who leads the
 Permanent Subcommittee  on Investigations, has conducted reviews
that faulted Goldman Sachs for its trading of mortgage-backed
securities before the credit crisis and JPMorgan over
derivatives trading losses. He said his panel, which has
subpoena power, has been looking at the commodities issue for at
least six months.  “The potential here for conflicts of interest and
manipulating prices to benefit their own proprietary holdings is
huge and it’s a very, very serious issue,” Levin said in an
interview on July 23.  Long Queues  The Senate hearing came less than a month after the London
Metal Exchange announced a plan to speed up withdrawals at sites
with long queues, which industrial metals consumers including
 Encore Wire Corp. (WIRE)  and MillerCoors LLC say have squeezed
availability of  copper  and aluminum. Backlogs have grown as more
metal gets tied up in so-called financing deals, which typically
involve the purchase of metal for nearby delivery and a forward
sale to take advantage of a market contango, where prices rise
into the future.  The LME has a network of more than 700 warehouses
worldwide, the exchange’s website shows. Copper stockpiles in
Johor,  Malaysia ;  New Orleans  and the Belgian city of Antwerp
have almost quadrupled this year and hold about 90 percent of
the total, according to LME data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  