-- Republicans May Make Keystone a Budget Issue, Ryan Says
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-07-30T02:08:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/republicans-criticize-obama-for-keystone-jobs-claim-in-interview.html
House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan said the Keystone XL oil pipeline may be part of budget
negotiations as his Republican colleagues criticized President
 Barack Obama  for saying the project wouldn’t create many jobs.  The Wisconsin Republican, who was his party’s 2012 vice-presidential nominee, told Bloomberg BNA yesterday that federal
approval of the  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  project and tax-code changes
may be seen as concessions in looming budget talks with the
White House.  “Given that we have all of this new oil and gas
technology, these new technologies, these new discoveries, and
the need for pipeline infrastructure and regulatory certainty, I
think House Republicans put energy in the category of pro-growth
issues that can help us with our deficit as it leads to job
creation,” Ryan said. “So yes, we consider those issues as
part of these discussions.”  Republicans yesterday faulted Obama for saying that the
pipeline would create relatively few permanent jobs, as the
contentious energy debate veered into a broader discussion on
the budget and the economy.  Obama told the  New York  Times in an interview published
July 28 that there was no evidence that Keystone would be a
“big jobs generator.”  Keystone “might create maybe 2,000 jobs during the
construction of the pipeline -- which might take a year or two -
- and then after that we’re talking about somewhere between 50
and 100 jobs in a economy of 150 million working people,” Obama
said. His comments marked the second time in two months that he
has spoken publicly about the project, which can be blocked by
the State Department because it crosses the border with Canada.  McCain Criticism  Senator John McCain, speaking yesterday at a lunch
sponsored by Bloomberg Government, disputed the president’s
characterization and said that the pipeline would create
thousands of jobs.  “I just think that it is wrong of him to say that it
really wouldn’t mean many jobs when we’ve got 7.6 percent
unemployment across this country,” said McCain, an  Arizona 
Republican. “It seems to me that every new job would be
important when we have unemployment that high.”  Representative Lee Terry, a Nebraska Republican, said Obama
ignored estimates from the U.S. State Department about the jobs
that the $5.3 billion construction project proposed by Calgary-based TransCanada would create, directly and indirectly.  ‘Zero Credibility’  “The president now has zero credibility when he speaks
about infrastructure projects creating jobs,” Terry, whose home
state would be crossed by the pipeline, said in a statement.  The House of Representatives has passed a bill that would
remove the pipeline decision from Obama’s control. A similar
measure is pending in the Democratic-led Senate.  The criticism over Keystone emerged as Obama makes a
renewed push for policies that he says will accelerate the
economic recovery, including more infrastructure spending. Last
week, the president gave the first of several planned speeches
designed to revive a stalled economic agenda, and he’s to speak
today in Chattanooga,  Tennessee , on domestic manufacturing.  Republicans say that Keystone would create thousands of
jobs and help improve U.S. energy security.  Obama’s has said the State Department review should include
the project’s global environmental effects. Speaking on climate
change last month, he said the pipeline shouldn’t be approved if
it would significantly exacerbate carbon-dioxide emissions as
advocacy groups that oppose it, including 350.org, contend.  White House  Josh Earnest , a White House spokesman, said yesterday that
Obama was “draining the politics out of this debate and
evaluating this project on the merits, and that’s exactly the
process that’s under way at the State Department right now.”  The State Department said in its draft  analysis  that
Keystone would potentially support 42,100 jobs in the U.S. over
the one to two years it would take to build. That figure
includes 3,900 people directly employed in construction.  After completion, the project would support about 35
permanent jobs, according to the State Department.  Obama also suggested in his interview with the Times that,
for the project to win approval, Canada may have to reduce
greenhouse-gas emissions caused by production of the oil sands
that the pipeline would carry.  “I’m going to evaluate this based on whether or not this
is going to significantly contribute to carbon in our
atmosphere,” Obama said. “And there is no doubt that  Canada  at
the source in those tar sands could potentially be doing more to
mitigate carbon release.”  Environmentalist Optimism  Critics of the pipeline say they were increasingly
optimistic that Obama would reject it.  “After several years, he’s starting to hear what the
environmental community has been saying,” Daniel Kessler, an
Oakland, California-based spokesman for 350.org, said in an
interview.  In particular, Obama highlighted that the oil produced
would be exported from U.S. refineries, potentially raising
gasoline prices in some parts of the nation, echoing a point
made by pipeline critics.  “It’s clear that the White House is ready to take on the
Republicans over climate change, and these disastrous
infrastructure projects,” Kessler said.  Business groups said that Obama was underestimating the
number of jobs Keystone would create. “Manufacturers are
extremely disappointed by the president’s dismissal of the jobs-creating potential of the construction of this important
project,” Jay Timmons, president of the Washington-based
National Association of Manufacturers, wrote in a blog posting.  ‘Not Logical’  “It is not logical to think a $7.6 billion infrastructure
project stretching across the entire breadth of the continental
U.S. wouldn’t employ thousands of workers both in the
manufacturing sector and in constructing the pipeline,” James Millar, a spokesman for TransCanada, said by e-mail.  Millar was including Keystone’s southern leg, to refineries
along the Gulf of Mexico, that is already being built. It would
connect to the project under State Department review.  “In this economy, any source of private job creation
should be welcomed with open arms,” Representative Fred Upton,
a Michigan Republican, said in a statement. Upton leads the
Energy and Commerce Committee, which has passed a measure that
would let Keystone go forward without State Department approval.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  