-- Rheinmetall Halves Defense Profit Forecast as Sales Slow
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-07-29T17:34:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/rheinmetall-halves-defense-profit-forecast-as-sales-slow.html
Rheinmetall AG (RHM) , a maker of armored
military vehicles, halved its estimate for full-year operating
profit at its defense unit as sales fell short of plans.  Operating profit before interest and taxes and excluding
restructuring costs will be between 60 million euros and 70
million euros this year at the unit, the Dusseldorf, Germany-based company said in a statement. The previous forecast was for
130 million euros. Sales may fall 100 million euros short of a
2.4 billion-euro target, Rheinmetall said.  “The main reason lies in budget cuts in key customer
countries,” the company said. The munitions business was hit
particularly hard with short-term demand failing to meet
expectations, according to Rheinmetall, which makes Fuchs
armored transport vehicles and the Leopard 2 tanks gun.  Rheinmetall shares have advanced 10 percent this year and
declined 1.06 percent to 40.05 euros in Frankfurt trading before
the company revised its outlook after market close.  Group-wide earnings before restructuring costs are expected
to be between 180 million euros and 200 million euros,
Rheinmetall said. That compares with an earlier range of between
240 million euros and 260 million euros. Costs to deliver on
some defense programs also are likely to rise more than
anticipated, Rheinmetall said.  In March, Rheinmetall announced restructuring measures
expected to trim 2013 profit to generate savings as high as 70
million euros from 2015. Company-wide restructuring costs this
year may reach as much as 85 million euros, the company said.  New order bookings in the defense sector reached 1.3
billion euros in the first half, the company said. The total
excludes a 1.1 billion military truck deal with  Australia  that
will be booked in the third quarter.  The automotive sector will meet its forecast after “good
business growth” in the second quarter, according to
Rheinmetall. Sales should reach 2.4 billion euros to 2.5 billion
euros and earnings before interest and taxes before
restructuring costs are estimated at 140 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  