-- Rio Delays $5.1 Billion Mongolia Expansion Pending Funding Pact
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-07-29T07:15:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/rio-delays-5-1-billion-mongolia-expansion-pending-funding-pact.html
Rio (RIO)  Tinto Group, the world’s second-biggest mining company, said it’s delaying work on a $5.1
billion underground expansion of its Oyu Tolgoi copper mine,
pending financing approval by Mongolia’s parliament.  “The parliamentary approval process may take some time to
work through,” London-based Rio said today in a statement. “In
view of the current uncertainty, including continued discussions
with the government on a range of other issues, all funding and
work on the underground development will be delayed until these
matters are concluded and a new timetable has been agreed.”  Rio earlier this month made its first commercial copper
shipment from the mine, which has so far cost $6.6 billion to
build, following months of tension with the government.
Shipments started after the government demanded a bigger stake
in the project and new mining royalty rates, which the company
rebuffed. The company and the government have also clashed over
cost over-runs, tax payments and a lack of local participation
in the management of the copper and gold mine, which is forecast
to account for a third of Mongolia’s economy.  Enough of the disputes were resolved to allow the copper
shipments, after two postponements, as Mongolia sought to ensure
revenue from the mine is passed through domestic banks.  “ Rio Tinto  has been notified by the government of Mongolia
that the terms of the  project financing  provisionally secured
for the underground development of Oyu Tolgoi will need to be
approved by the Mongolian parliament,” Rio said, according to
the statement.  Considering Expansion  Rio declined 0.2 percent to close at A$57.11 in Sydney.
Trading closed before the statement on Oyu Tolgoi was announced.  Rio controls Oyu Tolgoi through its 51 percent stake in
 Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. (TRQ) , which in turn owns owns 66
percent of the operation, located 80 kilometers (50 miles) north
of the Chinese border. The government owns 34 percent.  Rio is considering expanding Oyu Tolgoi, which would
include building an underground mine and enlarging its
concentrator, and could involve constructing a power station.
The work may cost $5.1 billion, Turquoise Hill said in a March
report.  Oyu Tolgoi ’s average annual production over 20 years from
the open pit and planned underground mine is estimated at
430,000 metric tons and 425,000 ounces of gold, Rio said this
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  