-- Romania Raises 2013 Economic-Growth Forecast on Export Demand
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-07-29T17:03:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/romania-raises-2013-economic-growth-forecast-on-export-demand.html
Romania ’s government raised its
economic-growth forecast for this year, citing a pickup in
export demand, and said the pace of the expansion may surpass
that estimate if domestic consumption rebounds.  Gross domestic product  will rise 1.9 percent this year,
instead of the previously predicted of 1.6 percent, Budget
Minister Liviu Voinea told reporters in Bucharest today. The
economy grew 2.2 percent from a year earlier in the first
quarter and the European Commission sees a 1.6 percent increase
for the full year.  “We want to maintain our prudent approach, so we’ll revise
the budget to include the 1.9 percent growth for this year,
which is mainly based on exports,” Voinea said. “Consumption
may boost growth above the 1.9 percent forecast in the second
half.”  Romania is counting mainly on demand from the 28-nation
European Union for its goods, such as  Renault SA (RNO) ’s Dacia cars,
to drive growth. The central bank this month signaled more
monetary easing after it cut the trading bloc’s second-highest
benchmark rate in more than a year.  The leu traded at 4.3908 per euro at 7:44 p.m. in Bucharest
from 4.3901 on July 26. It has gained 1.7 percent in the past
month, the second-best performance among 24 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, after the Polish zloty.  The government completed talks on a new loan agreement with
the International Monetary Fund and the EU, Prime Minister
Victor Ponta told reporters today. The cabinet will release the
details of the accord on July 31, he said.  The country will reach an “upgraded” agreement that will
help lower financing costs and support the currency, Ponta said
in a July 17 interview. Romania will obtain a precautionary loan
of 3 billion euros ($4 billion) to 5 billion euros with fewer
conditions than its previous two accords, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  