-- SAC, Goldman, JPMorgan, GMAC, Daimler, Exxon Mobil: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-07-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/sac-goldman-jpmorgan-gmac-daimler-exxon-mobil-compliance.html
Insider trading  evidence against SAC
Capital Advisors LP includes court-authorized wiretaps, a U.S.
prosecutor said at the $14 billion hedge fund’s arraignment in
federal court in Manhattan.  “The discovery will be voluminous, including a large
number of electronic recordings, including electronic messages,
instant messages, court-authorized wiretaps and consensual
recordings,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Antonia Apps told U.S.
District Judge Laura Taylor Swain Friday about the pretrial
evidence-gathering process.  Prosecutors didn’t specify whether the wiretaps were
directed at SAC founder and owner  Steven A. Cohen  or any other
SAC employee. Cohen wasn’t in court Friday for the hearing that
lasted about 15 minutes.  Inside the crowded courtroom, the defense table was lined
with six criminal lawyers for SAC. Peter Addison Nussbaum, SAC’s
general counsel, entered a not guilty plea on behalf of each of
the four SAC business entities.  The U.S. alleges that the four units are culpable for
allowing insider trading to become institutionalized as a way of
doing business at the  Stamford , Connecticut-based hedge fund.  Nussbaum declined to comment after the hearing, as did
Martin Klotz, another SAC lawyer from Willkie Farr & Gallagher
LLP. Also representing SAC is Theodore “Ted” Wells from Paul
Weiss Rifkind Wharton & Garrison LLP.  Under the criminal case, each of the SAC units charged
faces a maximum of at least $25 million or twice the profits
made or losses avoided on each of the alleged crimes.  SAC last week told investors, employees and counterparties
that it will stay open for business as the U.S. presses its
case.  The case is U.S. v. SAC Capital Advisors LP, 13-00541, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Compliance Action  Tourre Says ‘I Haven’t Done Anything Wrong’ at Testimony’s End  Fabrice Tourre made one final attempt to convince jurors in
Manhattan that he didn’t defraud investors in a 2007 mortgage
bond-backed investment that lost them $1 billion when the U.S.
housing market crashed.  “I haven’t done anything wrong, as I’m here literally to
tell the truth and to clear my name,” Tourre, 34, said Friday
as he wrapped up his testimony in the trial of the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission’s civil fraud case against
him.  The SEC claims Tourre, a former vice president at  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , hid the involvement of the hedge fund Paulson
& Co. in selecting the mortgage bonds underlying the investment,
known as Abacus 2007-AC1, and then made a $1 billion bet it
would fail. The agency plans to rest its case against Tourre
when the trial reconvenes July 29.  Tourre testified he made $1.7 million in salary and bonus
in 2007. If found liable for fraud, he faces money penalties and
a possible ban from the securities industry.  Tourre told jurors Friday that he learned in April 2010 the
SEC was suing him and Goldman Sachs over Abacus from a news
headline scrolling on his Bloomberg terminal.  Tourre, a French citizen, said he voluntarily testified
before a U.S. Senate subcommittee in 2010. After that he “had
to take a step back and think about what to do,” as his career
had been “effectively destroyed” by the allegations. Tourre
was placed on paid leave by Goldman Sachs for one year, at his
base salary of about $750,000. He said he hoped he’d be able to
return to the firm.  “I was hoping I could make the SEC understand this
transaction,” he said.  Tourre told jurors he did volunteer work in East Africa and
is now pursuing a doctorate in economics at the University of
Chicago.  Tourre’s lead lawyer,  Pamela Chepiga , sought to minimize
Tourre’s responsibility for the Abacus transaction by
highlighting his relatively junior status and showing that the
transaction was reviewed by dozens of people at Goldman Sachs.  Tourre was called as a witness by the SEC and was
questioned by both sides. He isn’t expected to testify again
when his defense team presents its case this week.  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-cv-03229, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  GMAC Will Pay Borrowers $230 Million on Faulty Foreclosures  GMAC Mortgage, part of the home lending unit owned by  Ally
Financial Inc. (ALLY) , will pay $230 million to compensate borrowers
for improper handling of foreclosures, the  Federal Reserve  said
July 26 in a statement.  GMAC Mortgage will pay about 232,000 borrowers to settle
claims it improperly seized homes, the Fed said. In a deal
similar to those regulators struck with 13 other mortgage
servicers this year, the money goes to borrowers who faced
foreclosure in 2009 and 2010.  Settlements reached since January with 14 of the largest
U.S. mortgage servicers, total more than $3.8 billion and will
close the books on mishandled foreclosures after the 2008 credit
crisis.  “We’re relieved to be able to distribute these funds
directly to borrowers rather than spend the time and money with
consultants to complete the file review,” Tammy Hamzehpour, a
spokeswoman for Residential Capital -- part of the Ally mortgage
unit placed into bankruptcy last year -- said in an e-mailed
statement. “That process would not have returned anywhere near
as much money, to as many potentially harmed borrowers, as will
this settlement.”  The company settled without admitting or denying
wrongdoing. The payments will come from the Residential Capital
estate, Hamzehpour said.  France Blocks Mercedes Compact Registrations in Coolant Dispute  Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s third-biggest maker of luxury
vehicles, is barred from registering its Mercedes-Benz compact
models in France because regulators have stopped accepting a
coolant fluid used in the vehicles.  The Mercedes A- and B-Class as well as the CLA coupe can’t
be registered in the country as they use a refrigerant that no
longer meets to European Union environmental regulations, the
Ministry of Ecology, Development and Energy said in a statement
July 26. Daimler said Friday that it plans legal action against
the move, which it called a misreading of EU law.  Daimler has been in talks for about a year with European
authorities over a newer refrigerant, R1234yf, that regulators
say meets stricter standards on greenhouse gas emissions. The
Stuttgart, Germany-based manufacturer has held off from
switching to R1234yf, saying the new fluid is susceptible to
catching fire in car crashes.  Daimler sold 15,745 compact vehicles in France in the first
six months of 2013, accounting for about 2 percent of its global
car deliveries in the period, Ulrike Bless, a spokeswoman, said
by phone.  The carmaker was in “discussions with all the relevant
institutions in order to reach rapid clarification of the
situation,” Daimler said in its second-quarter report published
July 24.  Compliance Policy  Banks Should Shed Commodities and Focus on Banking, Chilton Says  Banks that own, trade or warehouse commodities should
consider going back to being banks, U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission member Bart Chilton said July 26 after
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  announced it was considering selling its
physical commodities business.  “This whole area of banks owning the physical, warehousing
and delivery mechanisms of commodities is one that policy makers
need to thoughtfully consider, and soon,” Chilton said in an e-mail. “Banks getting back to being banks and making loans to
businesses and individuals seems like the best course of action.
Perhaps that will happen without any policy changes, although I
have definite doubts.”  JP Morgan said it may sell or spin off its physical
commodities business three days after a congressional hearing
examined whether banks are using their ownership of raw
materials to manipulate markets.  The firm plans to continue running the commodities unit
“as a going concern and fully support ongoing client
activities” while it considers its options, JPMorgan said. One
possibility is a strategic partnership, the bank said.  Regulators including the Federal Reserve are under pressure
to explain why they allow banks to run trading operations while
also owning mines,  oil fields , railroads and warehouses. A
reversal of those regulatory policies could put commodity units
of JPMorgan as well as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  in jeopardy.  U.S. Senator  Sherrod Brown , the Ohio Democrat whose
subcommittee of the Senate Banking Committee held hearings on
the industry this week, has called on the Fed to give clear
guidance on what non-bank activities should be allowed “and
consider placing limitations on those that expose banks and
taxpayers to undue risk.”  In the Courts  Exxon Mobil’s $105 Million MTBE Defeat Upheld by U.S. Court  A U.S. jury’s $104.7 million damage award against  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  for contaminating New York City wells with the
gasoline additive MTBE was upheld by a federal appeals court.  The award for compensatory damages to clean up contaminated
wells was proper, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Manhattan said in
a ruling July 26, denying Exxon Mobil’s challenge to the 2009
verdict. The Irving, Texas-based company said it plans to appeal
the ruling to the U.S. Supreme Court.  “We reject Exxon’s argument that the jury’s verdict
conflicts with and is therefore pre-empted by the  Clean Air Act 
Amendments of 1990,” the appeals panel said, adding that the
jury properly offset the award by amounts attributed to cleanup
of other contaminants.  New York sued Exxon Mobil and other  oil companies  in 2003,
alleging that they knew the gasoline additive methyl tertiary
butyl ether, or MTBE, would pollute groundwater. Exxon Mobil
argued that state laws are pre-empted by the  Clean Air Act ,
which required oil companies to reformulate gasoline to reduce
air pollution from vehicle emissions. Oil companies added MTBE
to make it burn more thoroughly.  “MTBE has not been used for seven years, cleanup
successfully continues and the myriad of data shows MTBE
detections decreasing,” Todd Spitler, a spokesman for Exxon
Mobil, said in an e-mail. The company “will be filing an appeal
to the United States Supreme Court,” he said.  This case is one of scores around the country by
municipalities, states and individuals against oil refiners,
distributors and retailers over MTBE. Many, including New York
City’s, were consolidated in New York federal court for
evidence-gathering.  A state appeals court in Maryland in February reversed two
jury awards totaling $1.65 billion against Exxon Mobil over MTBE
contamination, ruling that the company hadn’t made fraudulent
statements and the property owners who sued hadn’t demonstrated
physical harm.  A jury in New Hampshire state court in April ordered Exxon
Mobil to pay $236 million in damages for contaminating
groundwater with MTBE. The company has appealed that verdict.  The appeal is In re Methyl Tertiary Butyl Ether Products
Liability Litigation, 10-4329, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Texas Loses Bid to Stop EPA Takeover of Greenhouse Gas Rules  Texas’s bid to keep control of its own greenhouse gas
permitting program was rejected by a divided federal appeals
court in a decision that supports a takeover by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency.  In a 2-1 ruling, the U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington
said July 26 that Texas, Wyoming, Peabody Energy Corp. and
industry groups aren’t in a legal position to challenge federal
rules governing the revision of state implementation plans,
known as SIPs. The ruling follows the court’s holding last year
that the EPA’s limits on greenhouse gas emissions are lawful.  The parties cannot show harm because “the permitting
requirements are self-executing” under the Clean Air Act, U.S.
Circuit Judge  Judith Rogers  wrote in a majority opinion joined
by Judge David Tatel.  Texas sued the agency in 2010 to prevent the EPA from
taking control of the state’s regulation of carbon-emissions
from stationary sources. States were required to regulate
 greenhouse gases  as pollutants in their permitting programs by
January 2011.  Bryan Shaw, chairman of the Texas Commission on
Environmental Quality, said in an emailed statement that the
“EPA has effectively rewritten the Clean Air Act to impose its
new standards, imposed severely restrictive timelines on the
states to implement its new requirements, and then twisted the
act to immediately impose its agenda on Texas.”  In a dissent, Circuit Judge  Brett Kavanaugh  argued that
under EPA regulations the states should have three years to
revise their plans before any federal intervention. He said the
regulation also doesn’t impose a construction moratorium during
those three years.  The case is State of Texas v. Environmental Protection
Agency, 10-1425, U.S. Court of Appeals for the  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  MF Global Reaches Settlement With JPMorgan Unit on Recovery  MF Global Holdings Ltd. reached a settlement giving it a
share of JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s recovery on a $60 million claim
against the holding company’s brokerage.  Under a prior settlement with the brokerage, MF Global
Inc., JPMorgan agreed to hand over $100 million in customer
property and in return received the $60 million unsecured claim.
As part of a new settlement, JPMorgan will give a percentage of
its recovery on the claim to the holding company, according to
court papers filed July 24.  Investigations of the bank “concluded that, while there
are potential claims against JPMorgan, it is not at all clear”
that plaintiffs would prevail in litigation seeking to recover
money on the claims, lawyers for MF Global Holdings wrote in the
filing in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan.  JPMorgan’s settlements with the brokerage have so far
resulted in a total of $1 billion being made available to
distribute to former customers, according to the filing.  The holding company’s Chapter 11 case is In re MF Global
Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The broker liquidation is In
re MF Global Inc., 11-bk-02790, same court. The class-action
case is 11-cv-7866, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  