-- Samsung Nears Purchase of Germany OLED Company Novaled
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g ,   J u n g a h   L e e   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-07-30T02:33:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/samsung-is-said-to-be-near-purchase-of-germany-s-novaled.html
Samsung Group (005930)  is nearing an
agreement to acquire Novaled AG, a German maker of materials
used to light up smartphone and television screens, two people
with knowledge of the matter said.  “We are internally reviewing plans to acquire Novaled, but
no details have been set yet,” said Lee Tae Hun, a spokesman
for  Cheil Industries Inc. (001300) , the chemical and electronic materials
unit of  South Korea ’s largest conglomerate, in a telephone
interview.  A deal to buy Novaled for more than $200 million may come
as early as this week, according to a person with knowledge of
the matter, who asked not to be identified because the talks are
private.  Samsung is pushing to gain control of organic light-emitting diode, or OLED, technology as users shift to thinner
screens in smartphones and  televisions . The technology offers
sharper, brighter images while consuming less power. The world’s
biggest television maker started selling 55-inch curved OLED TVs
for about $13,500 in its home market last month.  Novaled, based in Dresden,  Germany , makes organic materials
and technology for OLEDs, used for televisions, mobile phones,
lighting and by the solar-power industry, according to its
website. Samsung, which already owns 10 percent of the company,
accounted for 53 percent of Novaled’s sales in 2011, according
to a May 2012 filing for an initial public offering by the
German company.  IPO Plan  Novaled, which planned to be listed on the Nasdaq stock
exchange in  New York , never completed the IPO.  Doosan Corp. (000150) ,
whose conglomerate parent describes itself as South Korea’s
oldest company, in May dropped a bid for Novaled.  Gerd Guenther, chief marketing officer for Novaled, said
yesterday the company is in talks with Samsung without
commenting further. The Wall Street Journal reported yesterday
that the companies were close to a deal.  Samsung Electronics Co., the flagship electronics unit of
 Samsung Group , on July 26 forecast  24 trillion won  ($21.6
billion) in capital expenditure this year. The company will use
13 trillion won for its memory chips and 6.5 trillion won for
displays, most of which will be spent on OLEDs. Samsung spent
13.8 trillion won for chips and 4.9 trillion won for displays
last year.  Second-quarter operating profit at Samsung Electronics’s
display division, which makes flat panels for TVs and mobile
devices, jumped to 1.12 trillion won from 710 billion won a year
earlier, the company said last week.  Novaled’s main investors include Omnes Capital, Second
TechnoStart Ventures Fonds GmbH & Co. KG, TechFund Europe
Management S.A.S., eCAPITAL entrepreneurial Partners AG and
Samsung Venture Investment Corporation, according to its
website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in  Hong Kong  at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Jungah Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  