-- Senate Confirms Comey as FBI’s First New Chief Since 2001
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-07-30T05:03:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/senate-confirms-comey-as-fbi-s-first-new-head-since-2001.html
The  U.S. Senate  confirmed James B. Comey Jr. to be the next director of the FBI, giving the agency
its first new head since before the September 2001 attacks.  Comey, the former No. 2 official in the  Justice Department 
under President  George W. Bush , was confirmed yesterday 93-1.
Once sworn in, he will take over for  Robert Mueller , who has led
the agency since days before the Sept. 11 attacks on the World
Trade Center and Pentagon. President  Barack Obama  praised the
Senate vote, calling Comey “a natural leader of unquestioned
integrity.”  “In the face of ever-changing threats, he has repeatedly
demonstrated his commitment to defending America’s security and
ideals,” Obama said in a statement issued by the White House.
“The FBI will be in good hands long after I’ve left office.”  Comey, 52, will lead a law enforcement agency that has been
changing to address increased threats posed by computer hackers
and domestic terrorism, amid heightened public concerns over the
reach and scope of classified surveillance programs disclosed by
a former intelligence contractor.  Senator  Rand Paul , a Kentucky Republican, had said he would
hold up the nomination until he received answers from the FBI
about the agency’s domestic use of unmanned aerial vehicles. He
voted against Comey’s confirmation.  The agency, in a response yesterday to Paul, said in a
letter that it didn’t require a warrant to use the drones to
conduct surveillance on specific investigations.  Paul said in a statement that while he disagreed with the
FBI’s interpretation, he would release the hold on Comey.  Drones Unarmed  The  Federal Bureau  of Investigation, in an initial response
to Paul’s questions from its congressional affairs office, said
it has used the vehicles to conduct surveillance in eight
criminal cases and two national-security cases.  The drones aren’t armed and aren’t used to conduct general
surveillance, Stephen D. Kelly, the assistant director for
congressional affairs, said in a July 19  letter  to Paul.  Senator  Charles Grassley  of  Iowa , the top Republican on the
Judiciary panel, said Comey gave him assurances that he’d review
policies that guide the FBI’s use of domestic drones.  Paul is among the lawmakers who have expressed concern
about expanding government surveillance. Two programs, one that
collects domestic telephone records and another that targets the
Internet use of foreigners suspected of having ties to
terrorism, were disclosed by former intelligence contractor
Edward Snowden, who’s holed up in a Moscow airport amid U.S.
efforts to secure his return to face prosecution.  ‘Valuable Tool’  Comey said during his confirmation hearing that while he
wasn’t aware of the details of the current programs, he found
bulk collection of data -- a method used by the National
Security Agency to gather the phone records of millions of
Americans -- a “valuable tool.”  The legality of surveillance programs became a central
tenet of Comey’s legacy in the  Bush administration , with his
refusal in a dramatic hospital-room confrontation to re-authorize one of the data gathering practices utilized at the
time amid pressure from top administration officials.  Comey and Mueller, the man he will replace atop the FBI,
had both considered resigning without changes to the programs.
Those changes, which are still classified, were made.  “We need strong, principled, ethical leaders who
steadfastly adhere to the law,” Senate Judiciary Committee
Chairman  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat, said yesterday on
the Senate floor before the vote. “I’m confident that James
Comey is such a leader.”  Mueller Tenure  Mueller, the longest-serving FBI director since J. Edgar Hoover, will leave the position on September 4. His 10-year term
was extended by Congress for two years at Obama’s request.  Mueller has overseen a shift in the FBI’s responsibilities
and focus during his time as director, mostly driven by the
criticism of the agency’s failures in the months leading up to
the Sept. 11 attacks.  The national-security focus has increased the agency’s
emphasis on counterterrorism and intelligence collection, while
maintaining its traditional criminal investigative functions.  Mueller, during testimony before a Senate panel in May,
said the U.S. remains “in a time of acute and persistent
threats to our national security, economy, and community safety
from terrorists, foreign adversaries, criminals and violent
gangs, and cyber attackers.”  Comey, who left government service in 2005, will join the
FBI after private-sector jobs that included serving as general
counsel to  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and to hedge fund Bridgewater
Associates LP. Most recently he was nonexecutive director on the
board of London-based bank  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  