-- Senior to Expand Thai Plant as Boeing, Airbus Seek Lower Costs
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-07-29T11:12:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/senior-to-expand-thai-plant-as-boeing-airbus-seek-lower-costs.html
Senior Plc (SNR) , a British maker of plane
parts, will expand a production facility in  Thailand  as biggest
customers  Boeing (BA)  Co. and Airbus SAS seek lower supply-chain
costs and a bigger presence in  emerging markets .  “What we are looking to do in Thailand is make it a full
aerospace center,” Chief Executive Officer Mark Rollins said
today in a phone interview. Investing in the facility, acquired
as part of the purchase of fellow British plane-part maker
Weston in 2011, will help to lower manufacturing costs and
strengthen ties in high-growth Asian markets, he said.  Boeing and Airbus are seeking to cut costs as airlines
struggling to make a profit demand better deals for new planes.
Chicago-based Boeing CEO Jim McNerney has said suppliers that
fail to comply with the strategy may be dropped.  “Airlines historically have not made much money,” Rollins
said. “So Boeing and Airbus have had to be more competitive
with their new narrow-body planes and because of that they are
seeking for their supply chain to be more competitive.”  The Thailand facility, which historically made parts for
British engine-maker   Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/) , has won
additional business from Munich, Germany-based MTU Aero Engines
AG and will also provide parts for the much-delayed Boeing 787
Dreamliner, Rollins said. The site will take on new work rather
than business from other Senior locations, he said.  Topline Growth  Senior first-half revenue increased 6 percent to 399
million pounds ($614.7 million), the Rickmansworth, England-based company said today in a statement. Adjusted operating
profit, excluding a write-off related to an acquisition, rose 5
percent to 53.3 million pounds. The company’s  shares  fell 3.1
percent to 264 pence as of 12:02 p.m. in  London , paring this
year’s gains to 32 percent.  Sales growth has been propelled by rising demand from
Boeing and Toulouse, France-based Airbus, part of  European
Aeronautic, Defence and Space Co ., for tubing, de-icing systems
and other engineering products, Rollins said. Dreamliner
production will reach 12 planes a month in 2016, compared with
10 a month by the end of this year, Senior said in the
statement.  The company has increased its exposure to manufacturing of
the A320, Airbus’s most popular plane, by 50 percent in recent
months, Rollins said. Senior has also generated sales from
production of the  Boeing 737  and the Airbus A350 long-range
jets, he said.  The company will continue to seek one or two small
acquisitions a year to augment organic growth, Rollins said. Its
composite aerostructures operations could be expanded in this
way as those parts are increasingly used on new planes to reduce
fuel consumption.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  