-- Slovakia to Sell New Mobile Frequencies This Year
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2013-07-29T11:26:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/slovakia-to-sell-new-mobile-frequencies-this-year.html
Slovakia plans to sell new mobile
phone frequencies this year, a process similar to one that
triggered a price war and cut costs for mobile customers in the
neighboring  Czech Republic .  The telecommunications office plans to publish a stance,
including the names of participants in a discussion on the
auction’s rules, “within days,” Roman Vavro, a spokesman at
the Telecommunications Regulatory Authority of the  Slovak
Republic , said by phone today.  The sale of the 800Mhz, 1,800Mhz and 2,600Mhz bandwidths
may bring a fourth operator to a market dominated by French
 Orange SA (ORA) ’s unit Orange Slovensko AS,  Deutsche Telekom (DTE)  AG’s
Slovak Telekom and the Slovak subsidiary of Spain’s  Telefonica
AS. (TEF)  The regulator has said any entrance of a fourth operator
will depend on investor interest.  PPF Group NV, a financial house that bid against existing
operators in a failed sale of mobile frequencies in the Czech
Republic this year, has submitted comments in the Slovak
process, PPF spokesman Radek Stavel said by phone. PPF wouldn’t
provide more details on its possible participation in the Slovak
auction.  The Czech telecommunications regulator canceled its tender
on March 8. It said bids had totaled an “excessive” 20 billion
koruna ($1 billion), which would push prices higher for
customers.  Telefonica Czech Republic AS, the country’s largest
provider, subsequently cut its prices by, in some cases, more
than half in April and offered the country’s first-ever bundles
of unlimited calls, text messages and some data. That was
followed by similar moves from its competitors, Czech units of
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and T-Mobile.  The Czech regulator plans to begin the failed process again
this month. It said in June it planned to allocate some of the
frequencies to a fourth mobile phone operator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  