-- SocGen Joins Agricole to Boost Profit as Hollande Prods on Loans
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2013-07-29T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/socgen-joins-agricole-to-boost-profit-as-hollande-prods-on-loans.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  Societe Generale  SA
and  Credit Agricole (ACA)  SA, poised this week to report their highest
combined profit since the Greek debt swap, are facing pressure
to do more to grease the wheels of the French economy.  Second-quarter net income at France’s three biggest banks
may be about 2.8 billion euros ($3.7 billion), according to
average analyst estimates. That compares with 2.34 billion euros
in the year-earlier period, marking what would be the highest
quarterly level since  Greece ’s sovereign-debt restructuring in
early 2012.  President  Francois Hollande ’s government is prodding banks
to lend more to help France claw out of a recession, while
cutting them some slack on other fronts. The most exposed to
 Europe ’s troubled economies, French banks were spared a split of
lucrative investment-banking activities as lawmakers passed a
bill this month to segregate proprietary trading, the first such
move in Europe. Also, new French regulations may give the
lenders a liquidity boost of as much as 50 billion euros.  “Their results are stable again,” said Jacques-Pascal Porta, who helps manage 600 million euros at Ofi Gestion Privee
in Paris, including shares of the three banks. “Even if their
financing situation remains somewhat fragile, it’s sufficient
enough to feed the economic system with loans and financings.”  Hollande, who called finance his “biggest adversary”
during his election campaign in 2012, is turning to banks to
help revive an economy that has stagnated for the past two years,
leaving the country with record joblessness.  Meager Loans  French corporate loans had edged up 0.8 percent from the
start to year to about 808.7 billion euros at the end of May,
according to Bank of France data. Lending to small- and medium-sized companies in the first five months, however, fell 0.3
percent to 356.6 billion euros.  “The economic situation remains worrisome,”  Credit
Agricole  Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Chifflet, who’s also
the head of the French Banking Federation, said in an interview
in  Les Echos  this week.  Hollande has promised to transfer to banks up to 50 billion
euros in so-called Livret A accounts -- on which depositors
don’t pay taxes -- from the state-owned lender Caisse des Depots
to help finance the economy, he said.  “This is key to our country’s recovery,” Chifflet said.  At France’s four largest banks, including Groupe BPCE,
loans exceeded deposits by 367 billion euros at the end of 2012,
Moody’s Investors Service said in a May 21 “credit focus.”  While the deposits funding gap has shrunk from 513 billion
euros a year earlier,  France ’s four largest banks had loan-to-deposit ratios “in the upper range” relative to their
international peers and a “substantial” aggregate funding
exposure of about 1.2 trillion euros, Moody’s said.  Helping Hand  The government-designed liquidity boost, which will be
effective tomorrow, will help French banks “to lend more,”
with financings “mostly in favor of small and medium-sized
companies,” the finance ministry said July 19.  The use of the funds will be reviewed in the Fall, the
ministry said, without providing details on the transfer of the
tax-free deposits from Caisse des Depots.  The additional liquidity comes after France’s three largest
banks shrank risk-weighted assets by 128 billion euros and cut
thousands of investment-banking jobs in the wake of the  European
debt crisis .  “They’ve taken their share of pain,” said Julian Chillingworth, who helps manage 20 billion pounds ($30.7 billion)
at  Rathbone Brothers Plc (RAT)  in  London , whose holdings include BNP
Paribas and Societe Generale shares.  BNP Paribas, Societe Generale, Credit Agricole and BPCE,
like their international counterparts, face stricter Basel-III
liquidity rules and reduced short-term funding by a combined 14
percent between mid-2011 and the end of 2012, Moody’s said.  Short-Term Funding  Large French banks “rely more than international peers on
short-term wholesale funding, the most volatile and confidence-sensitive,” Moody’s said.  Government plans for tax-free deposits should help them,
Credit Suisse Group AG analyst Maxence Le Gouvello estimated in
a July 19 note. Rates on tax-free deposits will fall by 50 basis
points to 1.25 percent next month, the  finance ministry 
announced July 18. The rate cut should “bring relief” to
French consumer-banking revenues, the analyst wrote.  The new-found stability in the bank earnings has helped
their shares. BNP Paribas has risen more than 13 percent this
year, while Societe Generale and Credit Agricole have gained 7.8
percent and 18 percent respectively. That compares with a 9
percent increase in the French benchmark CAC 40 Index.  BNP Paribas reports second-quarter earnings tomorrow, and
Societe Generale will publish its quarterly results Aug. 1.
Credit Agricole, France’s third-largest bank by market value,
will publish earnings on Aug. 6.  Quarterly Results  For the quarter ended June 30, BNP Paribas, the biggest
bank by market value in the 17 nations sharing the euro, will
probably report net income of 1.5 billion euros compared with
1.85 billion euros a year earlier, according to the average
estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “For BNP, more than 60 percent of the revenues come from
Europe, and there is little or no economic growth,” said Alex Koagne, an analyst at Natixis Securities in Paris. “To preserve
profitability, French banks need to keep under control expenses
and doubtful loans.”  BNP’s earnings in the second quarter last year benefited
from a 286 million-euro own-debt revaluation and from 75 million
euros of gains from selling corporate loans. Banks book
accounting charges or gains tied to the theoretical cost of
buying back their own debt as market prices fluctuate.  Under Pressure  Societe Generale (GLE) , France’s second-largest bank, is likely
to post a 716 million-euro  quarterly profit  compared with 433
million euros a year earlier, according to the average estimate
of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Societe Generale’s
results in the year-earlier period, while having own-debt
revaluation gains, also included writedowns on its business in
 Russia  and on a U.S. asset management unit.  Credit Agricole, coming out of two consecutive annual
losses as it sold an unprofitable Greek unit early this year,
will probably report a 593 million-euro first-quarter profit,
compared with a restated 56 million euros a year earlier, the
average estimate of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg shows.  While the banks may have put the worst behind them, they
may not be completely out of the woods yet, said Natixis’ Koagne.  “Overall the results shouldn’t be polluted by exceptional
items, but the economic crisis keeps having an impact,” he said.
“The adjustment isn’t over and revenues will keep being under
pressure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  