-- Sohu Profit Beats Estimates as Video Content Lures More Ads
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-07-29T08:28:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/sohu-profit-beats-estimates-as-entertainment-content-lures-ads.html
Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) , the owner of  China ’s
third-largest Web portal, reported second-quarter profit that
beat analyst estimates as an increase in online video viewers
led advertisers to boost spending.  Net income doubled to $22 million from a year earlier, the
Beijing-based company said in a statement today. The result
 surpassed  the $19.7 million average of three analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue rose 33 percent to $339 million,
compared with the $341 million average of six analysts’
estimates.  Sohu has invested in developing mobile apps and online
video content to strengthen its Internet media and entertainment
offerings. The number of people who accessed the Internet via
mobile devices rose 10 percent to 464 million in China by the
end of June from the end of December, according to the  China
Internet Network Information Center .  “Online commercials recovered a lot, as advertisers were
more willing to spend,” Eric Qiu, an analyst at Guosen
Securities Co. in  Hong Kong , said by phone. “Its video business
posted fast growth and attracted more advertisers.”  Sohu American depositary receipts rose 2.5 percent to $70
at the July 26 close on the Nasdaq.  Sohu forecast third-quarter revenue of $358 million to $370
million, in line with the $362 million average of six analysts’
estimates.  The company has been seeking investment in its Sogou search
unit to drive growth, according to Chief Executive Officer
Charles Zhang.  Sogou has been in talks about a possible tie-up with
China’s second-largest search engine  Qihoo 360 Technology Co. (QIHU)  to
compete against  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  Sogou is the third largest search
engine in China, accounting for 5.5 percent of market share
based on search queries by the end of March, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  