-- South Korea Made Final Offer to North Korea for Gaeseong Talks
-- B y   H e e s u   L e e   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2013-07-29T04:02:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/south-korea-made-final-offer-to-north-korea-for-gaeseong-talks.html
South Korea  contacted  North Korea  to
make a “final” offer to resume talks on the resumption of
operations at the suspended Gaeseong joint industrial zone, the
South’s Unification Ministry said.  South Korea made the offer, which didn’t specify a date or
place for the resumption of negotiations, over the Panmunjom
border village phone line today, the ministry said in a text
message to reporters. Unification Minister Ryoo Kihl Jae said
yesterday the offer would be “final” and that a failure by the
North to cooperate would force the South  “to make an important
decision to protect our businesses.”  Officials from the two Koreas have repeatedly failed to
reach an agreement on how to prevent the North from unilaterally
closing the industrial park. A scuffle broke out at the sixth
meeting on July 25 when North Korea’s chief negotiator Pak Chol
Su and about 20 officials entered a room of South Korean
journalists to explain their position.  “North Korea continues to refuse to adhere to
international standards,” Lee Jung-Hoon, a professor of
international relations at Yonsei University in  Seoul , said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television today. “It refused to give
in to any sorts of measures that would prevent any further
accidents or problems arising out of Gaeseong.”  Shares of companies operating in Gaeseong rose in Seoul
trading. Leather goods producer  Emerson Pacific Inc. (025980)  gained 7.2
percent and mobile phone parts maker Jaeyoung Solutec Co. surged
9.8 percent as of 12:42 p.m. local time. Good People Co., an
underwear maker, increased 1.7 percent and battery and computer
network power source maker Ehwa Technologies Information Co.
rose 3.9 percent.  Gaeseong Losses  South Korean companies operating factories with North
Korean workers in Gaeseong reported about 1.6 trillion won ($1.4
billion) in losses as of June 7, according to the results of a
survey by the Unification Ministry released on June 25.  North Korea withdrew its workers from the zone April 8 to
protest  United Nations  sanctions and U.S.-South Korean military
drills, during a period of heightened tensions that included
threats of preemptive nuclear strikes by Kim Jong Un’s regime.  South Korean President Park Geun Hye on July 27 repeated
her call to North Korea to abandon its nuclear ambitions, as Kim Jong Un’s regime displayed its military might in a parade
marking the 60th anniversary of the armistice that ended the
 Korean War . U.S. President  Barack Obama  stressed the country’s
partnership with the South as “a bedrock of stability” in the
Asia-Pacific region.  “I don’t think at this juncture North Korea is going to
give up its nuclear weapons program and therefore we may be in
for some more provocations at some later time this year,”
Yonsei’s Lee said.  South Korea yesterday also announced $7.3 million of aid to
North Korea. The government and five non-government
organizations will spend 1.47 billion won, while the United
Nations will spend $6.04 million through its UNICEF program, the
Unification Ministry said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heesu Lee in Seoul at 
 hlee425@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  