-- Tsvangirai Fights to Oust Mugabe in Zimbabwe Election
-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-07-30T07:29:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/tsvangirai-fights-to-oust-unyielding-mugabe-in-zimbabwe-election.html
Zimbabwean Prime Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai  must overcome a flawed voters’ roll and the hostility
of the military in a presidential vote tomorrow if he’s to end
the 33-year rule of  Africa ’s oldest leader,  Robert Mugabe .  With Zimbabwe Defense Forces commander Constantine Chiwenga
calling him a “psychiatric patient,” Tsvangirai’s campaign has
also faced a virtual boycott by the state media. A million
people who are dead or who have disappeared are on the voters’
roll, while 18 to 30-year-olds missing from the list make up 
29 percent of the voting age population, according to the
independent  Research and Advocacy Unit .  “Conditions for a free and fair vote do not exist,” the
Brussels-based  International Crisis Group  research group said in
a report yesterday. “The voters roll is a shambles, security
forces unreformed and the media grossly imbalanced.”  The election, the fourth time Tsvangirai has tried to
replace Mugabe, 89, in the presidential State House in Harare,
will end their coalition that was formed in 2009 after the last
vote was aborted amid violence and allegations of afraud. The
15-nation  Southern African Development Community  then negotiated
a power-sharing agreement.  SADC’s chief observer, Bernard Membe, expressed concern
yesterday that the electoral roll hadn’t been released.  “It has to be made available for the people to see; for
the people to verify their names; for the people to know where
they’re going to vote,” Membe told the BBC Focus on Africa
program.  Economic Recovery  During the life of the power-sharing government, ministers
from Tsvangirai’s Movement for Democratic Change helped to steer
Zimbabwe out of recession and slow inflation that had soared to
500 billion percent according to the  International Monetary
Fund . The economy has grown every year since 2009, with Finance
Minister  Tendai Biti  predicting 3.4 percent growth this year and
inflation to slow to 3.9 percent from 5 percent.  The MDC had far less success in convincing police and
military leaders to abandon their allegiance to Mugabe’s
Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front, which led the
guerrilla war that brought independence to the country, formerly
known as Rhodesia.  ‘Real Threat’  Should Tsvangirai and the MDC win the presidential and
parliamentary elections, the possibility of a military coup
“would be a real threat,”  John Meyer , a mining analyst at
London-based SP Angel Corporate Finance LLP, said in a July 24
interview.  “It’s so hard imagining someone handing over the keys of
State House to the MDC,” Jolyon Ford, a political analyst with
Oxford Analytica, said in an interview, referring to the
presidential residence in Harare, the capital. “Zanu-PF has
been a part of Zimbabwe for so long, there’s a whole fabric of
the state which has to become disentangled from the party.”  Tsvangirai, a 61-year-old former labor leader, led Mugabe
in the first round of elections in 2008 before abandoning a run-off, saying more than 200 of his supporters were killed before
and after the vote. The MDC won a majority in parliament.  That shows “it’s impossible to contrive a victory out of
what is a massive, massive loss,” Ford said.  Economic Collapse  Their rivalry started in 2000 when the MDC successfully
campaigned against a Mugabe-backed constitutional amendment.
Facing the first serious threat to its rule since the end of
colonial rule in 1980, Zanu-PF initiated a violent invasion of
white-owned commercial farm land. That precipitated an economic
collapse that ended only with the coalition government almost a
decade later.  If tomorrow’s vote is transparent, peaceful and credible,
the European Union has pledged to lift sanctions imposed on
Mugabe and his key allies. It’ll make its decision based on the
judgment from SADC, which has sent 442 election observers to a
country bigger than  Germany .  “SADC is going to be pragmatic about this,” Knox Chitiyo,
an analyst with London-based  Chatham House , said by phone.
“What they want is a reasonably credible process where everyone
who’s eligible votes. A small amount of variations, a few
anomalies is par for the course, it’ll be accepted.”  Registered Voters  While the number of registered voters has increased to 6.2
million from 5.2 million in 2008, thousands more weren’t able to
register because of the limited time given for the process,
Aisha Abdullahi, a member of the African Union observer mission,
told reporters on July 26.  The  electoral commission  has printed 8.7 million ballots,
the body’s chairwoman, Rita Makarau, told reporters yesterday in
Harare.  The MDC complain to SADC that it hasn’t had access to the
voters’ roll yet, party secretary-general Biti said yesterday.
The party’s deputy organizing secretary, Morgan Komichi, was
arrested after reporting that marked ballot papers had been
dumped. He will be detained as long as he refuses to disclose
the identity of the person who gave him the papers, according to
police.  The Zimbabwe Electoral Commission on July 13 said it will
announce results of the presidential vote on Aug. 5. The process
took about a month in 2008. It hasn’t set a date for results
from the parliamentary ballot to be released.  Political Violence  During the last election, Zimbabwe’s military “played a
major role in supporting political violence that resulted in
over 2,000 beatings and cases of torture and the killing of at
least 36 MDC supporters,” New York-based  Human Rights Watch 
said in June 5 report.  “This time around violence is still an issue but not as
much as it was last time,” Chitiyo said. “The real concerns
have been around the logistics of the poll.”  Tsvangirai may be buoyed by a coalition with Zanu-PF
defectors including former Finance Minister Simba Makoni, who
garnered 8 percent of the vote at the 2008 vote. They have
failed to agree on an alliance with another MDC faction and
former Zanu-PF member Dumiso Dabengwa.  “One newspaper says Mugabe will win by a landslide,
another says Tsvangirai will be in State House in a few days,”
Jokonya Pasi, a motor mechanic in Harare’s Ashbrittle suburb
said. “This is  Zimbabwe : the only thing that is certain is that
everything is uncertain.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Latham in Harare at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  