-- Swiss Train Collision Leaves Driver Dead, 26 in Hospital
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m ,   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s   a n d   J a m e s   K r a u s
-- 2013-07-30T07:16:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/swiss-trains-in-frontal-collision-in-canton-of-vaud-sbb-says.html
Two trains collided head-on in
western  Switzerland , killing one of the engine drivers and
hospitalizing 26, local police said.  It’s too early to determine what caused the accident
outside the town of Granges-pres-Marnand, Reto Schaerli, a
spokesman for the national rail company SBB, said by phone.  “We will probably not know for several days,” Schaerli
said today. The Swiss Accident Investigation Board is examining
the matter, he said.  The crash between two trains traveling to and from Lausanne
on the same track occurred at 6:46 p.m. yesterday,  police  in the
Canton of Vaud said in a statement. The injured passengers were
transported to hospitals in the region, police said. None of
them is in a life-threatening condition, Schaerli said.  “The management and employees of the SBB are shocked by
the death of their colleague and regret that passengers were
also injured in the accident,” the SBB said in an e-mailed
statement.  The two trains had a total of 46 passengers, all of whom
were Swiss, the police said.  News photos from the crash showed the fronts of both trains
completely smashed into each other. An unidentified passenger on
the train traveling to Lausanne told 20 Minutes that the train
braked three times before a violent crash sent smashing glass
flying through the cars.  Latest Accident  The accident is the latest of several fatal train
collisions in  Europe . A crash in northern  Spain  after a high-speed train went off the rails on July 24 killed 79 people. On
July 12, six people died when a French train smashed into a
commuter station outside Paris.  Investigators from the rail service and specialists from
the police are also probing the Swiss accident, police said. The
prosecution service has ordered an autopsy on the driver.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Zurich at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net ;
James Kraus in Geneva at 
 jkraus2@bloomberg.net ;
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  