-- Synata Soars on Positive Breast Cancer Drug Trial Results
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-07-29T20:21:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/synata-soars-on-positive-breast-cancer-drug-trial-results.html
Synta Pharmaceuticals Corp. (SNTA)  gained
the most in more than four years after a small trial of its drug
in breast cancer met goals warranting expansion of the study.  Synta increased 41 percent to $7.15 at 4 p.m. New York time
for its biggest advance since March 2009. The shares of the
Lexington, Massachusetts-based company are down 21 percent this
year.  The experimental drug ganetespib helped enough patients
with breast cancer to see a reduction in their tumors to move on
to the second stage of the trial, Synta said today in a
statement. The drug was being tested for 12 weeks in patients
with newly diagnosed HER2-positive or triple-negative breast
cancer.  “The results easily surpassed the expansion criteria of at
least one objective tumor response in the first 15 patients
enrolled,” George Zavoico, an analyst with MLV & Co., wrote
today in a research note. “In our view, the results underscore
ganetespib’s potential of treating multiple types of cancer.”  There will be about 234,580 new cases of breast cancer in
the U.S. this year, and about 40,030 patients will die from the
disease, according to  estimates  from the National Cancer
Institute. Triple-negative breast cancer, which accounts for
about 15 percent of cases, is particularly difficult to treat;
it’s a generally fast-spreading cancer that won’t respond to
hormone therapy or drugs targeting the protein HER2, according
to the American Cancer Society.  Study Results  Of the first 10 patients with triple-negative breast cancer
in the trial, two had an objective tumor response while three
reached stable disease after 12 weeks of treatment, Synta said.
Of five HER2-positive patients, two had objective tumor response
and two reached stable disease.  The most common side effect was mild to moderate diarrhea
that was generally manageable with standard medication, Synta
said.  “These encouraging findings confirm prior signals of
clinical activity seen with ganetespib in breast cancer,” Iman El-Hariry, Synta’s vice president of clinical research, said in
the statement. “The favorable safety profile, clear single-agent clinical activity, and strong rationale for combination
therapy suggest ganetespib may have broad potential utility in
breast cancer.”  The drug also is being tested in lung and other cancers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  