-- Syrian Opposition to Begin Probe Into Khan al-Asal Killings
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-07-29T16:12:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/syrian-opposition-to-begin-investigation-into-killing-of-troops.html
The main Syrian political opposition
has formed a commission to investigate the killing of dozens of
people in a Syrian town, including troops loyal to President
Bashar al-Assad.  Initial reports indicate the involvement of rebels not
affiliated with the Syrian Military Council, the umbrella group
of fighters battling to topple Assad, the opposition Syrian
National Coalition said.  “All those involved in such crimes will be held
accountable,” the coalition said in a statement yesterday on
its Facebook page.  Pro-Assad media have said 123 people, including military
personnel, were killed by an al-Qaeda-linked group on July 27 in
the town of Khan al-Asal in Aleppo province. Some bodies were
mutilated and hurled in a ditch on the outskirts of town while
others were incinerated, the Foreign Ministry said in a letter
to the United Nations.  Syria ’s representative to the United Nations, Bashar
Jaafari, said today the killings were intended to “eliminate”
witnesses in a possible probe into an alleged chemical attack in
Khan al-Asal in March.  In a speech at the UN, Jaafari said the attack in Khan al-Asal came after reports of an agreement between the Syrian
government and the UN to advance the investigation into alleged
chemical weapons use.  Homs Clashes  In another development, Syrian troops took full control of
a key neighborhood in Homs province, state television said, part
of a government campaign to seize rebel-held areas in the
territory. The station aired live reports from the Khaldiyyeh
neighborhood, showing extensive damage and rubble-strewn
streets.  The Syrian National Coalition said Assad’s troops used
“thousands of rockets, explosive barrels and large amounts of
heavy weaponry” to bombard Khaldiyyeh. The group said on its
Facebook page that the “tactical withdrawal” of rebels from
the town is “not indicative of Assad’s ability to maintain
control over the area.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  