-- U.K. Mortgage Approvals, Business Lending, Decline
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-07-29T10:32:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/u-k-june-mortgage-approvals-unexpectedly-decline-boe-says-1-.html
U.K. mortgage approvals  unexpectedly
declined in June and business lending fell, highlighting
continued strains in credit markets that may act as a drag on
the recovery.  Lenders granted 57,667 home loans compared with a revised
58,071 in May, the  Bank of England  said today in London.
Economists had forecast an increase to 59,700 from an initially
reported 58,242, according to the median of 21 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. Business lending fell by 1.3 billion
pounds ($2 billion).  Britain’s economic growth accelerated in the second quarter
and the Bank of England and the U.K. Treasury are trying to spur
lending to cement the recovery. BOE policy makers led by
Governor  Mark Carney  hold their monthly meeting this week as
they prepare to publish a review on Aug. 7 about using forward
guidance to support  the economy .  “Economic growth is returning to the U.K., but today’s
bank lending figures show why Mark Carney seems keen to send a
message to households and businesses that they do not need to
worry about an  interest-rate  rise anytime soon,” said Rob Wood,
an economist at Berenberg Bank in London. “We are optimistic
about the U.K.’s chances of continued recovery, but the data
highlights the risks.”  Net mortgage lending rose 981 million pounds in June from
May, according to the BOE. That number lags the approvals data
by a number of months. Consumer credit increased 489 million
pounds, less than the 781 million-pound jump recorded in May.  The pound rose 0.1 percent against the dollar and traded at
$1.5392 as of 11:10 a.m. London time.  Mortgage Blip  Samuel Tombs, an economist at  Capital Economics  in London,
said the drop in mortgage approvals “seems likely to represent
a blip” as government programs are spurring homebuying.  “Mortgage demand should continue to recover in response to
the fall in  mortgage rates , the Treasury’s Help-to-Buy scheme
and the strengthening recovery in the wider economy,” he said
in an e-mailed note today.  Separately, U.K. property researcher Hometrack said  house
prices  rose 0.3 percent in June from May and were up 1.3 percent
from a year earlier. U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable said
yesterday there’s a risk the government’s housing measures could
lead to a bubble.  Company Lending  The BOE data showed that lending to non-financial
businesses fell 3.7 percent in June from a year earlier.
Outstanding loans stood at 460 billion pounds, the lowest since
data began in April 2011. Loans to small- and medium-sized
businesses increased by 200 million pounds in June from May.  Ernst & Young’s Item Club said corporate lending will fall
for a fifth year in 2013 to 422 billion pounds. This year will
be the “trough,” with lending seen rising 7 percent in 2014.  “As the U.K. economy picks up speed, banks’ balance sheets
will begin to strengthen again,” Item Club said in a report in
 London  today. “However, there will be a lag before the effects
become visible. U.K. banks must continue to trim their balance
sheets this year in response to regulatory pressures.”  Data last week showed U.K.  economic growth  accelerated to
0.6 percent in the second quarter from 0.3 percent in the three
months through March.  BOE policy makers will this week assess the merits of
giving investors more information on the future path of policy
before they publish a report on Aug. 7. They’ll leave their
 bond-purchase program  at 375 billion pounds on Aug. 1, according
to all but one of 42 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The
 key interest rate  will stay at a record low of 0.5 percent, a
separate poll showed.  Money-Supply Data  The BOE also said M4 money supply rose 0.1 percent in June
from the previous month and was up 1.5 percent from a year
earlier. A separate measure of  M4 money-supply growth  the
central bank uses to assess the effectiveness of its asset
purchases accelerated to a quarterly annualized 4.7 percent in
June from 4.4 percent.  Elsewhere this week,  China  will start a nationwide audit of
government debt as the new Communist Party leadership
investigates the threats to growth and the financial system from
a record credit boom.  The State Council, under Premier  Li Keqiang , ordered the
review, the National Audit Office said yesterday. The office
suspended other projects for this “urgent” work requested on
July 26 and will send staff to provinces and cities this week,
People’s Daily reported yesterday on its website, citing sources
it didn’t identify.  Japan ’s  retail sales  unexpectedly fell in June from May, a
report today showed. Italian business confidence rose to 91.7 in
July from 90.5 in June.  In the U.S., the National Association of Realtors will
publish its June  pending sales index  of previously owned homes,
while the Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas  will report on Texas
manufacturing activity this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  