-- U.K. ADHD Guidelines Aim to Improve ‘Patchy’ Treatment
-- B y   T r i s t a   K e l l e y
-- 2013-07-30T12:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/u-k-adhd-guidelines-aim-to-improve-patchy-treatment.html
The U.K.’s health-cost regulator set
standards for the diagnosis and treatment of attention deficit
disorder to improve the “patchy” care offered by the state-run
medical system.  To be diagnosed accurately, Symptoms should be “pervasive”
among different settings and linked to “moderate or severe
psychological, social, educational or occupational impairment,”
the  National Institute for Health and Care Excellence , or NICE,
said today in a statement.  Anyone taking drugs for ADHD should be assessed once a year
by a specialist to check dosing and response, under the
guidelines. NICE also recommended that parents of children with
the disorder attend training to cope with related behavior.
NICE, which advises the  National Health Service  on getting
medical value for money, said the guidelines will help eliminate
treatment inconsistencies.  “Doctors around the whole of  England  can now refer to this
document and say, ‘This is what I need to deliver,’” NICE
spokeswoman Shalu Kanal said by phone in  London .  ADHD, which causes hyperactivity, impulsiveness and
inattention, is the most common behavioral disorder in the U.K.,
affecting as many as 9 percent of school-age children and young
people, according to the agency. While the cause of ADHD is
unknown, a combination of environmental and genetic factors have
been singled out by some researchers as possible contributors.  Sleep Problems  Clinical services are only just being developed in some
parts of the U.K., and long delays in diagnosing are a particular
problem, according to the statement. The disorder is linked to
drug abuse and an increased likelihood of criminal convictions
in adulthood, as well as higher rates of anxiety, depression and
sleep problems, it said.  Medicines for ADHD available in the country include  Johnson
& Johnson (JNJ) ’s Concerta, Eli Lilly & Co.’s Strattera and  Shire
Plc (SHP) ’s Elvanse, which is known in the U.S. as Vyvanse. Treatments
also include parent and child education, behavior management and
counseling.  “Although highly effective treatments exist that can
change lives, ADHD can go unrecognized and untreated, and
provision of specialist services, particularly for adults,
remains very patchy,” Chris Hollis, professor of Child &
Adolescent Psychiatry, at the University of Nottingham, said in
the statement. The document “represents a real advance by
setting a benchmark for improved recognition, diagnosis and
delivery of evidence-based treatments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Trista Kelley in London at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  