-- U.K. Banks Allowing Online-Crime ‘Black Hole,’ Panel Says
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-07-29T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/u-k-banks-allowing-online-crime-black-hole-panel-says.html
U.K. banks and other financial
institutions should be forced to report all online crime, such
as card cloning, to law-enforcement agencies to tackle a “black
hole” of low-level fraud, a panel of lawmakers said.  Parliament’s cross-party Home Affairs Committee said in a
report published in London today that criminals who defraud
victims of a small amount of money are often not reported to or
investigated by police, while banks simply reimburse victims.
That means criminals who commit a high volume of low-level fraud
can still make huge profits, the panel said. Banks should be
required to report all fraud and log details of where attacks
come from, it urged.  “You can steal more on the Internet than you can by
robbing a bank, and online criminals in 25 countries have chosen
the U.K. as their No. 1 target,” the committee chairman,
opposition  Labour Party  lawmaker Keith Vaz, said in an e-mailed
statement today. “Astonishingly, some are operating from
European Union countries. If we don’t have a 21st-century
response to this 21st-century crime, we will be letting those
involved in these gangs off the hook.”  So-called e-fraud cost U.K. business 21 billion pounds ($32
billion) in 2011, the latest year for which figures are
available, the panel reported.  The lawmakers also called for a dedicated “espionage
response team” so that British companies, media and
institutions can immediately contact it to report an attack.
They recommended that Director of Public Prosecutions Keir Starmer should review sentencing guidance to ensure e-criminals
receive the same sentences as if they had stolen the same amount
of money or data offline.  ``Crime is at record low levels and this government is 
taking action to tackle the cyber threat, investing more than 
850 million pounds through the national cyber-security program 
to develop and maintain cutting-edge capabilities,'' the Home     
Office said in an e-mailed statement.                            To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  