-- Saks Credit Swaps Decline on Hudson’s Bay Deal; IBM Sells Bonds
-- B y   S c o t t   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-07-29T20:50:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/u-s-company-credit-default-swaps-rise-before-house-sales-report.html
Credit-swaps tied to  Saks Inc. (SKS) , the
luxury department-store retailer, plunged after  Hudson’s Bay Co. (HBC) 
agreed to acquire the company.  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  issued $2.15 billion in a two-part debt offering.  Five-year credit swaps on Saks tightened 38.2 basis points
to a mid-price of 226.4 basis points as of 4:16 p.m. in New
York, the least since May 20 according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. A benchmark gauge of corporate credit risk in the
U.S. rose.  The Hudson’s Bay acquisition of Saks for $2.4 billion seeks
to combine Canada’s largest-department store chain with one of
the most prestigious U.S. luxury retailers in a deal that may
spur the creation of a real estate investment trust. The
benchmark credit-default swaps measure increased as investors
looked to signs of economic improvement to determine when the
 Federal Reserve  will begin paring $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases that have bolstered credit markets.  IBM, the largest computer-services provider, issued $650
million of two-year floating-rate notes to yield 3 basis points
more than the three-month London interbank offered rate and $1.5
billion of 10-year, 3.375 percent securities at 83 basis points
more than similar-maturity Treasuries, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The debt, the first to be offered by the
company since May 2, may be rated Aa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service, the data show.  Investment Grade  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge against
losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased 1.8 basis
points to a mid-price of 76.1 basis points at 4:25 p.m. in New
York, Bloomberg prices show.  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  is scheduled to meet July
30-31. In September, the central bank will trim its monthly bond
buying to $65 billion, according to a growing number of
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . Half the economists held
that view in a July 18-22 survey, up from 44 percent in last
month’s poll.  ‘Biggest Concern’  “The biggest concern in the corporate  bond market  is still
rising yields,” Scott Carmack, a  money manager  at Leader
Capital Corp. in Portland, Oregon, said by telephone. “People
who didn’t have insurance last time the corporate bond market
blew up are moving in to protect themselves,” before economic
data and the Fed policy meeting, he said.  The average relative yield on investment-grade debt widened
0.8 basis point to 128.1 basis points, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index rose 9.2 basis points to 372.8 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  The U.S. distress ratio, or the number of distressed
securities divided by total speculative-grade issues, increased
to 6.1 percent in July, according to a  Standard & Poor’s  report
today, citing a rise in spreads due to the possibility of a
change in Fed policy.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt widened 3.8 basis points to 553.1 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s and less than BBB- at S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Harrison in  New York  at 
 sharrison52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  