-- Hudson’s Bay to Buy Luxury Retailer Saks for $2.4 Billion
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e   a n d   L a u r e n   S   M u r p h y
-- 2013-07-29T20:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/hudson-s-bay-to-acquire-saks-for-2-9-billion-including-debt.html
Hudson’s Bay Co. (HBC) , a middle-market
Canadian department store chain with a similar assortment to
Macy’s, has agreed to pay $2.4 billion to acquire  Saks Inc. (SKS) , one
of America’s most prestigious luxury retailers.  Hudson’s Bay, founded in the 17th century as a fur trading
company, will pay $16 a share in cash, a 30 percent premium to
New York-based Saks’s closing price on May 20, the day before
media reports emerged that Saks was exploring alternatives,
according to a statement today. The transaction, which brings
together the Hudson’s Bay, Lord & Taylor and Saks Fifth Avenue
brands, creates a company that will operate 320 stores.  The audacious move is a coup for Hudson’s Bay Chief
Executive Officer  Richard Baker , 48, who over the past seven
years has acquired and refreshed retail chains while leveraging
their real estate. Saks will continue to be based in New York
and retain its existing management, Baker said today. While the
newly merged entity will combine back-office operations to save
costs, the three chains will retain separate buying operations
so the merchandise will reflect each brand’s identity.  “We believe that by working together we can continue to
enhance and optimize the Saks business while preserving their
iconic brand,” Baker said on a conference call with analysts.
“While there are numerous opportunities to collaborate and
drive efficiencies, we will respect the  integrity and
uniqueness of the Saks franchise,” he said.  Hudson’s Bay is  Canada ’s largest department store chain,
with 90 stores selling goods ranging from shoes to perfume and
appliances to linen. Last year it generated about C$4 billion
($3.9 billion) in sales.  New Equity  In 2008, NRDC Equity Partners LLC, owner of the Lord &
Taylor and Fortunoff chains, agreed to buy Hudson’s Bay,
investing $500 million in new equity. Baker, who then ran NRDC,
became CEO of Hudson’s Bay.  He hired Bonnie Brooks as president and put her in charge
of The Bay after Brooks engineered the turnaround of Hong Kong-based department store Lane Crawford Joyce Group. Under Brooks,
Hudson’s Bay has upgraded and modernized its stores and
replacing under-performing brands with stronger ones.  Hudson’s Bay will benefit from adding “the luxury
counterpart” to its lower priced Hudson’s Bay and Lord & Taylor
chains, Mortimer Singer, president of  New York  retail consulting
firm Marvin Traub Associates, said in a telephone interview
today. The combined nameplates can leverage their now larger
buying power with vendors of fashion priced below the highest
designer level, he said.  ‘Smart Move’  “It seems like a smart move and a continuation of
everything Richard Baker has already done,” Singer said.  The $16 a share price is “fair,” Singer said.  Saks  rose  4.2 percent to $15.95 at the close in New York
and has advanced 52 percent this year. Hudson’s Bay increased
5.8 percent to C$17.45 in Toronto for a 4.4 percent advance in
2013.  Luxury retailers have fared better than mid-priced chains
and discounters since the industry emerged from the recession.
They wealthiest consumers, who are insulated from concerns about
persistent unemployment, have returned to their stores, snapping
up even the highest-priced goods.  Neiman Marcus  Group Inc., the
Dallas-based luxury chain owned by TPG Capital and Warburg
Pincus LLC, also is seeking the capitalize on the rebound, in
its case by pursuing an initial public offering.  Under-Performing Stores  Saks trails Neiman Marcus and Nordstrom in key metrics
including sales per square foot because Saks over-expanded last
decade and is saddled with a number of under-performing stores.
Saks posted revenue of $3.15 billion last year, short of the
$3.28 billion it recorded in the retail year that ended in early
2008. Chief Executive Officer Stephen Sadove has been closing
the chain’s underperforming branches. It now operates 41
namesake stores, compared with 54 in early 2007.  Including debt, the transaction is valued at $2.9 billion.
Hudson’s Bay, founded in 1670 and based in Toronto, expects the
deal to produce C$100 million ($97 million) in cost savings
within three years. Saks hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in May
to explore strategic alternatives, including a sale.  Hudson’s Bay is paying about 9 times Saks’s earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization on an equity
basis, compared a median multiple of 8 for similar deals
compiled by Bloomberg.  The combined company will have 179 full-line department
stores, 72 outlet stores and 69 home stores throughout the U.S.
and Canada, along with three e-commerce sites, according to the
statement. Saks has locations on Fifth Avenue in  New York City 
and Wilshire Boulevard in  Beverly Hills ,  California , while
Hudson’s Bay has properties in downtown Toronto, Vancouver and
 Montreal .  Canada Expansion  Hudson’s Bay plans to expand  Saks Fifth Avenue  into Canada
and continue to roll out Saks’s outlets across the U.S., it
said. It will evaluate creating a real estate investment trust
with the combined portfolio of the three main retail nameplates
it will now own, it said.  Baker has a lengthy history in real estate investment and
has acted as the non-executive Chairman of Retail Opportunity
Investments Corporation, which focuses on retail properties
located on the east and west coasts of the  United States . ROIC
owns and operates 50 shopping centers, encompassing about
5,600,000 square feet, according to the company’s website.  A retail REIT “makes a lot of sense,” said  Dan Fasulo ,
managing director at Real Capital Analytics Inc. in New York,
which tracks commercial-property sales. “It’s a way to
recognize the underlying value of those assets, which are
significant. Saks is on one of the best corners and in some of
the more premier markets in the country.”  Real Estate  Deborah Weinswig , an analyst at Citigroup in New York, in
May valued Saks’s real estate portfolio at $1.5 billion before
debt, or about $6 a share after net debt. The company’s Fifth
Avenue flagship store represents over $800 million of this
value, she estimated.  Hudson’s Bay Company follows several other Canadian
retailers into creating real estate investment trusts to make
the most of valuable properties. Canada’s largest grocery chain,
Loblaw Co., Canada’s largest grocery chain, Loblaw Co.,
established its real estate trust, Choice Properties REIT
earlier this year to spin off 75 percent of its real estate.
Canadian Tire, Canada’s largest sporting goods retailer,
announced on May 9 it would create a C$3.5 billion REIT in an
initial public offering this fall.  REITs, which receive preferential tax treatment from the
government, are companies that invest in income-producing real
estate and pay out most of their income to investors through
unit distributions.  Saks has 40 days to seek bids from other suitors. Hudson’s
Bay plans to finance the purchase with $1 billion of new equity,
$1.9 billion of senior secured loans and $400 million of senior
unsecured notes and available cash on hand.  “It’s bold and it’s risky,” Walter Loeb, president of
Loeb Associates in New York, said about the deal in a telephone
interview today. “Richard Baker may be buying too many
unprofitable stores at Saks along with those at Lord & Taylor
that he will have to rationalize.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren S Murphy in Toronto at 
 lmurphy48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  