-- Unclear Sale of Bulgaria’s Biggest Pension Fund Hurts Business
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-07-29T13:22:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/unclear-sale-of-bulgaria-s-biggest-pension-fund-hurts-business.html
The chairwoman of Doverie,
 Bulgaria ’s biggest pension fund, said her company is being hurt
by a lack of information on United Capital Plc’s purchase of a
92 percent stake in the Sofia-based company.  Vienna Insurance Group (VIG)  AG said on July 15 it concluded sale
negotiations with U.K.-registered United Capital, without
providing the transaction price or other details. A spokeswoman
for Bulgaria’s Financial Supervision Commission said no
documents have been received to begin the approval process.  “We haven’t met any representatives of the buyer yet,”
Doverie Chairwoman Daniela Petkova said in a phone interview
today. “We don’t know who stands behind it. Our information is
entirely from media reports and there is a great amount of
speculation there which is worrying for our clients.”  Doverie’s management, led by Petkova offered to resign on
July 12 over the lack of public information about the
transaction. They remain in charge until a new management team
takes over. The ruling Socialist party should ask the financial
regulator to block the transaction because of an “unclear
origin of the buyer’s capital,” Yanaki Stoilov, a Socialist
lawmaker said in parliament on July 16.  Information from the fund’s 60 offices in the country shows
an increased number of clients are moving their accounts to
other funds, Petkova said. The value of Doverie’s 92 percent
stake is estimated at as much as 150 million euros ($150
milllion), she said.  Confidence Crisis  The sale is taking place as Bulgarian political leaders are
struggling to maintain public confidence and voters are
increasingly aggressive about their dissatisfaction with what
they see as a corrupt political system in the European Union’s
poorest member.  Prime Minister Plamen Oresharski is besieged by 45 days of
protests demanding his resignation. He came to power May 29
after anti-austerity protests forced out his predecessor, Boyko
Borissov, and triggered snap elections.  Raya Tsvetkova, a public relations official at the
Financial Supervision Commission said her office will analyze
the transaction for at least a month, once documents are filed.
She was unable to comment further on the process.  Doverie fund  manages assets worth 1.86 billion lev ($1.26
billion) and has 1.256 million clients at the end of March,
according to its website.  “Doverie is a big fund and processes are gradual,”
Petkova said. “We’ll see the final figure of changed accounts
in October when registrations are completed. I hope the buyer
appears in Bulgaria as soon as possible to stop all speculations
and calm down the clients.”  Buyer Assets  United Capital manages assets worth more than 2 billion
euros ($2.65 billion), which include participation in insurance
and industrial companies, real-estate funds, banks in the
European Union, the U.S. and Russia, it said in a statement on
July 26 in Vienna.  Sergey Mastyugin, a member of Invest Bank  Russia ’s
supervisory board, is a “significant investor” in United
Capital, according to the statement.  United Capital will hand over documents to Bulgarian
regulatory authorities soon, the company said, while the funding
will be provided “solely” by its shareholders.  “Long-term, responsible investment, open and transparent
relationships with all of Doverie’s stakeholders are
essential,” United Capital said. It’s interested in “various
financial services sectors in the country” including an
investment in Sofia-based Tokuda Bank, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  