-- Unilever Sells First Euro Notes Since 2008 as Yields Decline
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l   a n d   V e r i t y   R a t c l i f f e
-- 2013-07-29T14:48:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/unilever-selling-first-euro-notes-since-2008-as-yields-decline.html
Unilever (UNA) , the world’s second-biggest
consumer-goods maker, sold its first euro-denominated bonds
since 2008 as borrowing costs fell in  Europe .  Unilever NV priced 750 million euros ($997 million) of
seven-year bonds to yield 25 basis points more than the
benchmark mid-swap rate, according to a person familiar with the
matter, who asked not to be identified because the details are
private. The average yield for investment-grade bonds in euros
fell to 2.02 percent, approaching the four-week low of 1.95
percent reached on July 22, Bloomberg  index  data show.  The Anglo-Dutch company’s last sale of notes in euros
matured in May, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 750
million euros of five-year securities were priced to yield 48
basis points more than the swap rate in 2008. German residential
landlord  TAG Immobilien AG (TEG)  and Gruppo Cogemat SpA are also
marketing bonds in the single currency as policy makers at
central banks from Europe to the U.S. meet this week.  “Unilever is taking the opportunity to issue before the
quiet August season and demand is driven by investors looking to
get a bit more yield than they receive from cash in a relatively
safe and quality asset,” said  Suki Mann , a London-based
strategist at Societe Generale SA. “This week is very important
as central bank rhetoric might set the tone for bond markets in
August.”  The 1.75 percent notes due August 2020 will be guaranteed
by Unilever Plc and Unilever United States Inc., the company
said in an e-mailed statement today. The proceeds of the bond
will be used to refinance existing debt, another person familiar
with the matter said.  TAG Immobilien  The average yield premium investors demand for investment-grade euro-denominated bonds over the benchmark mid-swap rate
fell 1 basis point to 97.8 basis points, according to Bloomberg
 index  data.  In the high-yield market today, TAG Immobilien plans to
issue as much as 200 million euros of five-year bonds, according
to a person with knowledge of the sale. The notes are being
offered to investors to yield about 5.25 percent, the person
said.  Cabot Credit Management, a Kent, England-based buyer of
 consumer debt , is selling 100 million pounds ($154 million) of
bonds to repay senior facilities and to help repay shareholder
loans, said another person familiar with the matter. The seven-year notes are being offered to investors to yield about 8.5
percent and will be issued by Cabot Financial ( Luxembourg ) SA,
the person said.  The notes, which the company can buy back after three
years, are expected to be rated B1 by Moody’s Investors Service,
four levels below investment grade, the person said.  Gruppo Cogemat, an Italian gaming machines operator, is
meeting investors from tomorrow for a sale of 165 million euros
of five-year bonds, according to a person familiar with the
plan. The notes, which are expected to be rated B by  Standard &
Poor’s , five levels below investment grade, will be used to
refinance debt, pay a dividend and for general corporate
purposes, the person said. Cogemat SpA and Cogetech SpA are
guaranteeing the bonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net ;
Verity Ratcliffe in London at 
 vratcliffe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  