-- Wacker Gains as China Scraps Polysilicon Import Duty Plan
-- B y   W e i x i n   Z h a
-- 2013-07-29T14:10:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/wacker-gains-as-china-scraps-polysilicon-import-duty-plan.html
Wacker Chemie AG (WCH) , Europe’s biggest
polysilicon maker, rose the most in a week and a half after
China pledged not to introduce import fees on polysilicon in an
accord with the European Union resolving a trade dispute.  Wacker Chemie gained as much as 3.2 percent to 70.18 euros,
the biggest intraday increase since July 18, and was trading up
1.7 percent at 4:07 p.m. in Frankfurt. The stock has risen 39
percent this year, valuing the company at 3.6 billion euros
($4.77 billion). Trading volume exceeded three-month daily
average by 22 percent.  China’s government said on July 18 that it was imposing
tariffs of as much as 57 percent on imports of polysilicon, the
main raw ingredient in solar cells, from the U.S. and South
Korea. Authorities in  China , the world’s biggest maker of solar
panels, were also looking into anti-dumping duties on imports
from the EU until reaching a trade agreement on July 27. The
move was seen as retaliation after the EU introduced preliminary
tariffs June 5 of 11.8 percent on solar panels from China.  “Wacker is one of the biggest beneficiaries of the
amicable solution between China and the EU,” Robert Schramm-Fuchs, an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in  London , said on the
telephone. “A main risk has been removed now.”  Earnings estimates and the Munich-based manufacturer’s
forecast are unlikely to be affected by the news, because most
people anticipated that the tax wouldn’t be imposed, Schramm-Fuchs said.  Wacker Chemie, which is majority-owned by the founding
family’s holding company, generated 22 percent of first-quarter
revenue from polysilicon. Prices of silicon for the solar
industry remain “a major challenge,” Chief Executive Officer
Rudolf Staudigl said in a statement on April 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weixin Zha in  Frankfurt  at 
 wzha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  