-- Weiner’s Fall Accelerates in Latest NYC Mayoral Poll
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-07-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/weiner-drops-to-fourth-among-new-york-mayoral-hopefuls-in-poll.html
Former congressman Anthony Weiner,
who jumped to the lead among  New York  mayoral hopefuls before
new revelations about lewd texts he sent, fell to fourth among
the seven Democrats seeking the office in a new voter survey.  Supported by 16 percent of his party’s likely primary
voters, Weiner, 48, slid behind City Council Speaker Christine Quinn, 46, who was backed by 27 percent to lead the pack,
according to a Quinnipiac University poll released yesterday.  The survey showed Bill de Blasio, the city’s public
advocate, in second with 21 percent and former Comptroller
 William Thompson  at 20 percent. It was the school’s first poll
following revelations that Weiner had online sexual exchanges
with women since similar behavior led to his June 2011 departure
from Congress. A Marist College sampling released last week
showed Quinn ahead with Weiner in a three-way tie for second.  “With six weeks to go, anything can happen, but it looks
like former Congressman Anthony Weiner may have sexted himself
right out of the race for New York City mayor,”  Maurice Carroll , director of the Hamden, Connecticut-based Quinnipiac
Polling Institute, said in a statement. The primary is Sept. 10.  More than half of the Quinnipiac poll’s respondents, 53
percent, said Weiner should drop out, though he is showing no
signs of quitting. He has brushed off calls from party leaders
and major New York media outlets to step aside, while his
campaign manager, Danny Kedem, 31, resigned.  Fallen Leader  In the past few days,  David Axelrod , a former aide to
President  Barack Obama , and Dee Dee Myers, a White House
spokeswoman for then-President  Bill Clinton , joined those who
say Weiner should abandon the race. Weiner was ahead of Quinn
and the rest of the field with 25 percent of registered voters
supporting him in a Quinnipiac survey released July 15.  Decisions about his campaign’s future are best left “up to
voters,” Weiner told reporters during a stop at a Queens senior
center, “not Sunday talk-show pundits.”  In the poll released yesterday, Weiner led Comptroller  John Liu , who got 6 percent, and former City Councilman Sal Albanese,
with 2 percent. About 7 percent remain undecided.  Democrats outnumber Republicans in the city about 6-to-1
among registered voters. If no candidate gets 40 percent in the
primary voting, the top two finishers in each party will compete
in an Oct. 1 runoff.  If Quinn faced a runoff with Thompson -- the Democrats’
2009 nominee, who lost to Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  by 4.3
percentage points -- Thompson would win 50 percent to 40
percent, with 10 percent undecided, yesterday’s poll showed.  Bloomberg, 71, founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP, is barred by law from seeking a fourth
term.  The latest poll surveyed 446 registered Democratic likely
voters by telephone July 24-28. It had a margin of error of plus
or minus 4.6 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  