-- Wipro Soars Most in Four Years After Forecasting Record Sales
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-07-29T05:58:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/wipro-soars-most-in-four-years-after-forecasting-record-sales.html
Wipro Ltd. (WPRO) ,  India ’s third-largest
software exporter, is poised for its biggest rally in more than
four years after forecasting record sales.  The  shares  jumped 7.1 percent to 409.1 rupees at 11:21 a.m.
in Mumbai, the biggest climb since May 2009. The stock was the
best performer on the benchmark  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX) , which fell 0.6
percent. Bangalore-based Wipro predicts revenue will rise to
$1.61 billion to $1.65 billion in the quarter ending Sept. 30,
according to a July 26 statement. The guidance is the strongest
in more than two years, according to Espirito Santo Securities.  Kotak Institutional Equities, Religare  Capital Markets  and
Espirito Santo increased their earnings  estimates  after Wipro
joined rival  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)  in signaling higher
demand for outsourced software work. Billionaire Chairman  Azim Premji  said July 26 the company is seeing higher confidence
among its customers amid “positive macroeconomic
developments,” in the U.S., its largest market.  “Wipro seems to have got its mojo back,” Dipen Sheth,
head of institutional research at HDFC securities Ltd., told
Bloomberg TV India today. The company has given “bullish
guidance after many, many quarters. This signals change in
trajectory for Wipro,” he said.  The August-contract volume in Wipro futures increased 51
percent to 8,503, data complied by Bloomberg show.  Wipro on July 26 said first-quarter  net income  rose 2.5
percent to 16.2 billion rupees ($275 million) in the quarter
ended June. That matched the median of 38 analysts’s estimate
compiled by Bloomberg. The Bangalore-based company posted sales
of 97.3 billion rupees, missing analysts’ estimates.  Volume Business  The forecast for IT revenue in the second quarter is based
on 57.24 rupees to a dollar, the company said in a statement.
Revenue from software services increased to $1.59 billion in the
period, in line with its April forecast of $1.575 billion to
$1.61 billion for the period.  “The volume is going to come from the bread-and-butter
businesses while the profitability impact is going to come
from” advanced technology businesses, T.K. Kurien, chief
executive officer, said in an interview to Bloomberg TV India.
“That gives us the confidence on our margins.”  Revenue from Wipro’s new technology business has risen 9
percent from the preceding quarter, Kurien said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  