-- Won Touches Seven-Week High as Exporters Sell Overseas Proceeds
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-07-29T07:05:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/won-rises-to-seven-week-high-as-exporters-sell-overseas-proceeds.html
South Korea ’s won touched a seven-week high on speculation exporters converted overseas sales
proceeds to meet month-end expenses.  Government bonds  gained.  Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co. won an order
to build two LNG ships, the company said in a July 26 statement.
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress earlier
this month that any reduction in stimulus would depend on the
performance of the world’s largest economy. The U.S. central
bank’s monthly purchases of $85 billion of bonds have fueled
demand for emerging-market assets. The  Federal Open Market
Committee  starts a two-day meeting tomorrow to review policy.  “Exporters must have sold dollars from the overseas deals
and as it’s the end of the month,” said Cho Young Bok, a
currency trader at Daegu Bank in  Seoul . “The currency’s rise
was limited as importers also sought dollars and investors were
betting cautiously in general before the FOMC meeting.”  The won rose 0.1 percent to 1,110.68 per dollar in Seoul,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It earlier touched
1,108.63, the strongest level since June 7. The currency gained
2.8 percent versus the dollar this month and has weakened 4.4
percent in 2013. One-month implied volatility, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
climbed 26 basis points, or 0.26 percentage point, to 7.57
percent.  A gauge of South Korean manufacturers’ confidence fell to
the lowest since February, declining to 73 for August from 78 in
July, according to a Bank of Korea statement today. Companies
cited sluggish domestic demand and uncertain economic outlook as
difficulties for their businesses.  The yield on the 2.75 percent government bonds due June
2016 fell three basis points to 2.91 percent, according to Korea
Exchange Inc. prices. It rose three basis points this month.  ING Groep NV lowered its year-end projection for the three-year bond yield to 3.1 percent from 3.2 percent. South Korea’s
economic fundamentals and monetary policy are “bond-market
friendly,”  Tim Condon , ING’s head of Asia research, wrote in a
research note today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  