-- Worst Over for Puerto Rico as June Yields Too Much: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-07-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/worst-over-for-puerto-rico-as-june-yields-too-much-muni-credit.html
Puerto Rico debt is rallying the
most this year as lawmakers of the self-governing commonwealth
shrink its chronic budget deficits and take steps to bolster one
of the nation’s weakest pension systems.  As investors prepare for next week’s $600 million bond sale
by the island’s electric agency, the first of 2013 from the
commonwealth, the  extra yield  buyers demand on Puerto Rico debt
is close to the smallest since at least January, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  The island’s securities are tax-exempt nationwide, drawing
demand even as Puerto Rico’s fiscal challenges have pushed it to
the brink of speculative grade. The bonds are rebounding from
the worst monthly loss in five years after legislators reduced
the budget gap to the least since 2009 and moved to trim pension
costs, said Joseph Rosenblum, director of municipal credit
research at AllianceBernstein LP in New York.  “They’re in a better position than January,” said
Rosenblum, whose company manages $31 billion of local debt,
including Puerto Rico bonds. “They are certainly addressing
many of the issues that were cited against them” by ratings
companies, he said.  June Tumble  Puerto Rico securities lost about  5 percent  in June, the
worst performance since 2008, Standard & Poor’s data show. The
$3.7 trillion municipal market fell 3 percent, part of broader
fixed-income declines amid bets that the Federal Reserve would
scale back its bond purchases.  “We’re definitely taking a look given where the yields
have backed up to,” said Daniel Solender, who helps manage
$19.5 billion of local debt, including Puerto Rico, at Lord
Abbett & Co. in Jersey City, New Jersey.  The island of 3.7 million people tends to have higher
interest rates than U.S. states because the major credit-rating
companies grade the commonwealth one step above junk with a
negative outlook.  The extra yield buyers demand on 30-year Puerto Rico bonds
was  2.12 percentage points  July 25, near a 2013 low of 2
percentage points set July 18. The gap is still down 28 percent
from the start of the year even as Puerto Rico 10-year yields
are coming off their second-biggest weekly increase this year.  Sideline Squatters  “There are investors on the sidelines who will buy on
cheapness,” said Tom Weyl, director of muni research at
Barclays Capital Inc. in New York. “Puerto Rico has positive
credit news. They should be stable for a while.”  Governor Alejandro Garcia Padilla, 41, who took office in
January, signed a budget last month for the fiscal year that
began July 1 that uses $750 million of deficit financing, the
smallest gap since at least 2009, according to the Government
Development Bank for Puerto Rico. Lawmakers this year boosted
the retirement age and increased public workers’ pension
contributions.  The Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority, operator of the
largest U.S. public power system, plans to sell debt three weeks
after  Detroit  filed a record municipal bankruptcy and as muni
mutual funds have seen nine straight weeks of withdrawals.  Detroit’s bankruptcy shouldn’t affect the bond deal because
investors have already digested the filing, Jose Pagan, interim
president at the Development Bank, said from San Juan.  Contagion Rejection  “There’s been no contagion in terms of Detroit,” he said.
“We’re going to time our entry into the market and make sure
that it’s the most efficient. We don’t foresee any major
issues.”  The Puerto Rico authority is rated one step above junk by
Moody’s Investors Service. It’s the biggest commonwealth sale in
almost 16 months, Bloomberg data show.  Agency bonds maturing in July 2026 traded July 25 with an
average yield spread of 2.6 percentage points, the smallest
since July 17.  The island’s leaders still face the challenge of bringing
down a jobless rate that was 13.2 percent in June, higher than
in any state. Also, Puerto Rico’s pension liability as a
percentage of revenue is about 234 percent, more than 49 states,
according to Moody’s. Only  Connecticut  has a higher ratio.  The performance of Puerto Rico debt in the next few months
will depend on demand across the municipal market as supply of
commonwealth bonds is set to increase, Rosenblum said.  Along with the electric agency sale, Puerto Rico is poised
to refinance about $600 million of general obligations as soon
as September. The Puerto Rico Highways & Transportation
Authority plans to borrow from $750 million to $1 billion about
30 days after the general-obligation sale, Pagan said. Those
deals will repay two $400 million loans from U.S. banks, said
Pagan, who declined to identify the institutions.  Market Week  Localities from  California  to  Massachusetts  are set to
borrow $4.6 billion of debt this week, the  slowest  non-holiday
week since June, as municipal borrowing costs rise.  At  2.93 percent , 10-year benchmark muni yields are near the
highest April 2011. That compares with  2.56 percent  for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The ratio of the yields, a measure of relative value, is
 114 percent , compared with a five-year average of about 100
percent. The higher the ratio, the cheaper municipal securities
are against federal debt.  The municipal market has lost about 1.6 percent this month,
compared with a 0.3 percent decline for Treasuries, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  