-- Wynn Resorts’ Profit Lags Estimates on Weaker Macau Sales
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-07-29T20:36:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/wynn-resorts-profit-trails-estimates-as-macau-revenue-slows.html
Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) , the casino
company run by  Steve Wynn , reported profit that trailed
analysts’ estimates amid a slowing of  Macau  revenue and ongoing
hotel renovations by the company there.  Excluding items, profit totaled $1.51 a share, Las Vegas-based Wynn said today in a statement. Analysts had projected
$1.57 a share, the average of 23 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Wynn, which began a renovation of about 600 guest rooms in
its Wynn Macau tower last quarter, said the number of available
room nights fell 5 percent as a result during the period.
Property Ebitda -- earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization -- in Macau fell 4 percent.  “Overall, the results in Macau were below our fairly low
expectations,” wrote  Joseph Greff , an analyst with JPMorgan
Chase & Co., in an investor note today. “Ebitda margins were
210 basis points below our estimate, reflective of a tough June
on the mass table side and, to some degree, room renovation
disruption,” wrote Greff, who  rates  the shares the equivalent
of buy.  Sales in Macau increased 2.6 percent during the second
quarter, while revenue from  Las Vegas  operations jumped 16
percent, the company said. In the first three months of the
year, revenue in Macau had risen 4.4 percent, compared with a
6.6 percent increase in Las Vegas.  China’s Economy  Shares of casinos with operations in Macau have fallen in
the past two months as investors focused on economic warning
signals from  China . Betting receipts in Macau are expected to
see a “visible” slowdown in the second half of 2013 as high-stakes players contribute a smaller share of casino revenue, the
city’s Monetary Authority said July 17.  Macau’s casino revenue rose 15.8 percent in the second
quarter to $10.8 billion, with the strength coming from both the
mass market and the VIP segments.  Wynn’s second-quarter Ebitda in Macau was $290.1 million,
compared with $302.2 million a year earlier. Ebitda excluding
some items in Las Vegas jumped 66 percent to $135.7 million
during the period.  Net income fell 6 percent to $129.8 million, or $1.28 a
share, from $138.1 million, or $1.37, a year earlier. The
results this year included a $26.6 million loss for the early
retirement of debt, the casino operator said.  New Casino  Total revenue increased 6.3 percent to $1.33 billion.
Analysts had estimated $1.34 billion on average.  Wynn shares gained less than 1 percent to $131.27 at the
close in  New York . The stock has advanced 17 percent this year.  Last week,  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  posted quarterly results
that missed analysts’ estimates after winnings in Singapore and
Macau came in lower than projected.  Wynn has negotiated a final price of $4 billion for the new
casino it is building on the Cotai Strip in Macau, Chief
Executive Officer Steve Wynn said today on a conference call.
The building, called the Wynn Palace, will open in early 2016
and will feature floral sculptures the size of “floats of the
Rose Bowl Parade,” he said. The company has also begun
discussions with the government of Macau about renewing its
casino concession there, Wynn said.  Wynn also said a casino hotel he has proposed building in
Philadelphia would cost $900 million and generate as much as
$175 million in profit. A proposed Boston-area casino would cost
$550 million.  The projects, part of a plan called “Urban Wynn,” will
succeed the era of grand hotels such as the Waldorf-Astoria in
New York, which can’t be built anymore due to construction costs
and the hotel-room pricing pressure from online booking
providers, Wynn said. The addition of a casino makes such
construction economical, he said.  “We can build what I call a grand hotel and then if you
are a person that wants to gamble, you go down the hall,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  