-- Yangon More Expensive Than NYC Sparking Boom: Real Estate
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n   a n d   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-07-30T05:46:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/yangon-more-expensive-than-nyc-sparking-boom-real-estate.html
Sean Danley has spent the past six
months scouting office space in Yangon after being sent to
establish the Myanmar branch of his U.S.-based employer.  He looked in the city’s three sole 1990s-era towers, where
annual rents have climbed to more than $100 a square foot,
compared with less than $75 in  downtown Manhattan , according to
broker CBRE Group Inc. Too expensive, he said.  The villas he considered either didn’t have safety exits,
weren’t clean, required sharing space with other companies or
were in odd locations -- all unsuitable to the image of his $29
billion in revenue engineering and construction company, which
he said he wasn’t authorized to identify. After seeing 10 places
and losing one possibility to someone faster with his “bag of
money,” Danley is still looking.  “We can’t move into a space where someone’s cooking up
nasi goreng on the sidewalk all night,” he said, using the
Indonesian name for fried rice.  Developers are rushing to solve Danley’s problem, one faced
by hundreds of multinational companies setting up operations in
Myanmar following its political opening and easing of
international sanctions. Yangon, the commercial capital, needs
at least 8.7 million square feet (800,000 square meters) of
office space to support the influx, according to  Yoma Strategic
Holdings Ltd. (YOMA)  About 1.9 million square feet will be available by
the end of 2015, compared with 600,000 now, the Myanmar office
of broker Colliers International UK Plc estimated.  Attractive Market  “With rentals going up, and the shortage going to become
more acute in at least the next seven years, it’s an attractive
market for foreign developers,” said Cyrus Pun, executive
director of Yoma, a Singapore-listed company that derives most
of its revenue from developing property in Myanmar and has seen
its share price more than double since the April 2012 elections
and subsequent loosening of sanctions that have allowed less-fettered foreign investment.  “There’s still a big gap to be filled,” he said in a
telephone interview, adding that Yoma is in confidential talks
that may lead to joint projects with Japanese, Singaporean or
Indonesian developers. “Whatever is being built right now will
not satisfy the immediate demand.”  The opportunity has lured other Southeast Asian developers,
including Singapore-listed  Soilbuild Construction Group Ltd. (SOIL)  and
 Vietnam ’s HAGL Joint-Stock Co., along with Hong Kong’s  Shangri-La Asia Ltd. (69)  Each has announced an office, retail, residential
apartment or hotel project that it plans to build or manage. At
least three more office buildings are being built by local
developers, Pun said.  Great Adventure  “There is a feeling that this is the last great adventure
there may be in Southeast Asia in terms of a market opening
up,” said David Simister, chairman of CBRE  Thailand .  Rents have increased  almost fivefold in Yangon’s three
towers, none of which is higher than 27 stories, from $22 a
square foot a year as of the end of 2011, before Myanmar
President Thein Sein began allowing more political freedom and
loosening economic controls, according to CBRE data. Tenants at
the three -- Sakura Tower, FMI Centre and Centrepoint Towers --
include  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP,
Coca-Cola Co., Nestle SA, Sumitomo Corp., Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. and Malayan Banking Bhd.  The energy industry is expected to generate a chunk of the
demand for real estate as companies such as Exxon Mobil Corp.,
Woodside Petroleum Ltd. and Total SA line up for a share of the
country’s oil and gas reserves.  In 2010, energy and mining contributed $8 billion to
Myanmar’s gross domestic product, according to a June report
from McKinsey & Co. By 2030, the sector could contribute $21.7
billion to an economy that is expected to expand to about $200
billion, it said.  Choosing Hotels  While awaiting new office space, some companies have turned
to hotels.  Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. (8411)  picked the Sedona Hotel,
located along Inya Lake near the U.S. Embassy and University of
Yangon. It has seen rent more than double to $6,720 a month for
the 1,000 square feet it occupies from $3,200 in April of last
year, according to its country representative, Tetsuro Nonaka.
Other tenants are Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., Yamaha Motor Co.
and  Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd. (7012) , according to signs outside
the hotel.  Unilever NV, the world’s second-largest consumer-goods
company, is among companies that have rented villas, such as the
ones Danley considered, driving their prices skyward. A four-bedroom residence that rents at $6,500 a month will probably
rise another 46 percent, to $9,500, by the end of the year, said
Brett Miller, the managing director of Scipio Services Co., a
Yangon-based real estate advisory and facilities management
company.  Going Up  Prices are going up by the week, said Cherie Aung-Khin, a
local restaurateur who wants to expand her Green Elephant
eatery, which serves Burmese cuisine and is popular with foreign
visitors. In early June, she viewed a 3,000-square-foot space
for a second outlet for $3,800 a month. When she returned from a
trip to Bangkok two weeks later, the landlord had raised the
rent to $4,500. After negotiations, she settled for $4,200, she
said.  “Next month, we’ll have a higher demand gap than we saw
this month, and rents are bound to go up again,” said Miller.  U.S. sanctions on Myanmar were in place since at least May
1997, when the country banned Americans from investing or
facilitating investments into Myanmar, according to the  U.S.
Department of the Treasury . They were progressively increased
over the next 15 years. Similarly,  European Union  sanctions on
the country were in place from October 1996 until both the U.S.
and EU began lifting them last year.  Closed Economy  Myanmar, also known as  Burma , was hit with these sanctions
as five decades of military rule curtailed political freedom and
landed opponents of the junta in jail. A closed economy till now
means companies setting up new business in the country contend
with telephone networks that experience frequent call drops and
a cash-only payments system in which credit cards are
practically unheard of. Adding to the difficulty of paying for
goods and services in Myanmar, business owners typically won’t
accept worn U.S. dollar bills, the preferred currency.  The U.S. easing allowed companies to invest in the
Southeast Asian nation, including acquiring land for
construction and development except in ventures connected to
Myanmar’s former military leadership.  No Limits  Real estate was not under EU restrictions, said Bernhard N.
Faustenhammer, interim head of the EU delegation to  Singapore ,
in an e-mailed response to questions. There were barriers to
investment in the sector because companies could not choose
local partners such as state-owned companies in Myanmar, he
said. No restrictions exist now.  “During the period of the sanctions, Western developers
did not even enter Myanmar,” said Tony Picon, managing director
of Colliers International Myanmar, explaining they didn’t have
“working knowledge” of the country as some developers from
Singapore or Hong Kong do.  “If you’re a big Western developer, it may be perceived to
be too risky to get into a large project in a frontier market,
and the small developments may be too messy and not worth your
while to pursue,” said Picon.  Seeking Partnerships  International developers will probably seek partnerships
with local counterparts in a country where they’re not yet sure
of rules and regulations, Pun said. For large-scale projects,
some foreign companies bring their own workers from outside,
while also using local resources available, he said.  “Whilst labor is in abundance, lack of well-skilled
construction workers and supervisors is certainly a feature in
Myanmar,” he said.  Ambiguous laws related to construction and ownership of
property are keeping some away. Far East Orchard Ltd., a unit of
Singapore’s largest closely held developer, Far East
Organization, isn’t rushing to invest.  “It’s a very cowboy town,” Lucas Chow, Far East Orchard’s
group chief executive officer, said at a press conference in
Singapore July 2. “The rules are not exactly clear; the laws
are not exactly clear; the concept of mortgages is not clear;
condominium laws are also not clear. So many things aren’t
clear, so I don’t think we have an appetite for that kind of
market.”  Yoma has partnered with its own affiliate, Serge Pun &
Associates Myanmar Ltd., to build two downtown office towers
across the road from Malaysian-born billionaire Robert Kuok’s
Traders Hotel starting in the first quarter of 2014. The two
towers will add 700,000 square feet of commercial real estate to
Yangon’s downtown in three years, said Serge Pun, Cyrus Pun’s
Myanmar-born father and chairman of the company that bears his
name.  New Hilton  Traders , a brand of Hong Kong-listed Shangri-La, will
develop a new site next to its hotel in central Yangon, adding
35,000 square feet of commercial real estate to downtown Yangon
by 2016, according to CBRE.  The development by HAGL, Vietnam’s second-biggest listed
property developer, near where opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi spent 15 years under house arrest, will be completed by
2016, according to a statement on the company’s website. Its
plan is for 2.4 million square feet of office space, plus a
hotel and serviced apartments.  Norway’s  Telenor ASA (TEL)  and Ooredoo QSC of Qatar, which won
licenses in June to expand telecommunications in Myanmar, where
only about one in 10 people has a mobile phone, will each need
at least 30,000 square feet of office space, Cyrus Pun
estimated.  A Hilton Hotel is expected to open in the second of
Centrepoint’s towers next year, according to Richard Mayhew,
director of LP Holding Co., a Yangon-based company that owns the
development. The tallest of the city’s three office properties,
it was started in 1996, halted during the Asian financial
crisis, resumed in 2005, and opened in 2010, he said.  Patience Required  Singapore’s Soilbuild will provide project management and
consulting for a hotel and a serviced-apartment development in
Myanmar, through which it intends to gain an understanding of
the market and possibly step in later for a share of the
construction business, said its executive director, Ho Toon Bah.  “Myanmar is at a very infant stage of their development,”
Ho said. “There are a lot of things they need to build.
However, since they have been shut off for so long, a lot of
their rules and laws are not up to international standards.”  Danley, the business manager at the U.S. multinational,
said he hopes to find a suitable office at a “value price”
soon. Companies need to come to Yangon with realistic
expectations and patience, he said.  “If you want to move into an office with a nice view, then
you probably want to wait a few years before you move to
Yangon,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net ;
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  