-- Dollar Gains on Taper Speculation Before FOMC; Aussie Declines
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   J e f f   M a r s h a l l
-- 2013-07-30T21:29:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/yen-holds-gain-versus-peers-amid-drop-in-equities-china-concern.html
The dollar gained versus the
majority of its most-traded counterparts amid speculation that
the  Federal Reserve  will reiterate plans to slow the pace of
monthly asset purchases this year.  Australia ’s dollar approached the weakest level in three
years versus its U.S. counterpart after the central bank
governor said there’s still room to cut interest rates and the
currency may depreciate further. The yen fell from the strongest
level in two weeks versus the euro after  Japan ’s industrial
production slid by the most in two years. Bloomberg’s U.S.
 Dollar Index  gained before the Fed’s two-day Federal Open Market
Committee policy meeting that concludes tomorrow.  “We’re seeing positioning ahead of the Fed,”  Omer Esiner ,
chief market analyst in  Washington  at the currency brokerage
Commonwealth Foreign Exchange Inc., said in a telephone
interview. “The market came into the week short dollars, and
we’re seeing an unwinding of those trades heading into the FOMC
meeting on the risk that the Fed will continue to signal that
tapering is on the table for later this year.”  The greenback increased 0.1 percent to 98.03 yen at 5 p.m.
New York time, after rising as much as 0.5 percent. The dollar
was little changed at $1.3263 per euro. The shared currency
added 0.1 percent to 130.01 per yen.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against 10 other major currencies, rose 0.3 percent to 1,026.81
after dropping to 1,021.21 yesterday, the lowest since June 19.  Krona, Rupee  Sweden’s krona depreciated against all but one of its 16
major peers after data showed gross domestic product contracted
0.1 percent in the three months through June, after growing 0.6
percent in the prior quarter, according to preliminary data from
Stockholm-based Statistics Sweden. The economy was forecast to
expand 0.1 percent by a Bloomberg survey of 12 economists before
the report.  The krona depreciated 1.3 percent to 8.6972 per euro and
fell 1.2 percent to 6.5576 per dollar.  The  Indian rupee  declined versus all 31 of its most-traded
counterparts after the country’s central bank kept  interest
rates  unchanged and said steps taken this month to tighten the
cash supply will be rolled back as the currency stabilizes. The
currency depreciated 1.8 percent to 60.4850 after falling as
much as 2 percent, the most since June 20.  Switzerland ’s franc rose the most compared with its major
peers, increasing 0.2 percent to 92.97 centimes per dollar after
touching 92.76. It gained 0.1 percent to 1.2331 per euro.  No Shift  “Recent inflation data do not appear to have shifted” the
 Reserve Bank  of Australia’s assessment that the outlook for
prices may “afford some scope to ease policy further if needed
to support demand,” Stevens said during a speech in Sydney.
“The recent decline in the  exchange rate  seems to make sense
from a macroeconomic perspective. It would not be a major
surprise if a further decline occurred over time.”  The RBA, which has left the cash rate unchanged at a
record-low 2.75 percent for the past two meetings, next meets on
Aug. 6. The Australian currency extended declines after
government figures showed building approvals fell 6.9 percent on
a month-over-month basis, the largest fall in a year. The median
forecast of 21 economists was for a 2 percent decline.  The Aussie declined 1.6 percent to 90.62 U.S. cents after
reaching 89.99 cents on July 15, the lowest level since
September 2010.  The Aussie has depreciated 10 percent this year, the worst
performance among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro is the best
performer, gaining 5.4 percent, while the dollar appreciated 4.8
percent and the yen declined 8.5 percent.  Economic Data  The yen earlier fell against the dollar after the Trade
Ministry in  Tokyo  said Japanese  industrial production  slid 3.3
percent in June, the sharpest decline since March 2011. Time
will be needed before the central bank’s inflation target is
reached,  Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said this week.  “We had very disappointing data for Japan’s industrial
production in June and that’s weakened the yen,” said  Lutz Karpowitz , a senior currency strategist at Commerzbank AG in
 Frankfurt . “For now the Bank of Japan will wait and see how
what they’ve done so far works, but if inflation doesn’t pick up
then they might implement some more measures. The yen will
weaken further.”  Japan’s currency will depreciate to 115 per dollar by year-end, Commerzbank’s Karpowitz predicted.  The U.S. Conference Board’s  index  of consumer sentiment
decreased to a reading of 80.3 from a revised 82.1 the prior
month that was stronger than initially estimated, figures from
the New York-based private research group showed today. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg  survey  of economists was for a
reading of 81.3.  Dollar Rises  Investors have trimmed bets of an early end to the Fed’s
program of quantitative easing, which had increased after
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on June 19 that policy makers
would taper their $85 billion in monthly bond purchases this
year and end it around mid-2014 if the economy performed in line
with their expectations.  Bernanke told lawmakers on July 17 that the central bank’s
asset purchases “are by no means on a preset course,” and
could be reduced or expanded as economic conditions warrant.  “It’s hard to imagine the FOMC having any substantial
discussion on tapering this time around,” said Kazuo Shirai, a
trader at Union Bank NA in  Los Angeles . “Policy makers will
probably emphasize that the labor market is still weak.”  Options Trading  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $29.4 billion, compared with $19 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen exchange rate amounted to $7.2 billion, the
largest share of trades at 25 percent. Options on the Aussie
dollar-greenback rate totaled $4.3 billion, or 15 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 10 percent more than the
average for the past five Tuesdays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Aussie-greenback options
trading was 62 percent more than average.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Marshall in New York at 
 jmarshall75@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  