-- Hyundai Motor Gets Biggest Fine in South Korea Price-Fixing Case
-- B y   J u n g a h   L e e
-- 2013-07-29T09:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/hyundai-motor-gets-biggest-fine-in-south-korea-price-fixing-case.html
Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and five imported-vehicle distributors were fined a combined 116 billion won ($104
million) by the  South Korea ’s antitrust watchdog for fixing
prices on trucks and tractors sold in the country.  The companies colluded on prices in 55 meetings held from
December 2002 to April 2011, the Fair Trade Commission said
today. Seoul-based Hyundai, South Korea’s largest automaker, was
ordered to pay 71.7 billion won, the largest fine.  Scania Korea Ltd., Volvo Group Korea Co., Daimler Trucks
Korea Ltd., MAN Truck & Bus Korea Ltd. and Tata Daewoo
Commercial Vehicle Co. worked with Hyundai in sharing plans for
raising prices, inventory levels and promotion programs, the
regulator said. The vehicles involved in the case included  dump
trucks , tractors and cargo trucks, it said.  “The companies acted to avoid fair competition and
maintained similar  price levels , resulting in a continued
increase in selling prices of large vehicles during the cited
period, regardless of market conditions,” the commission said
on its website.  Hyundai rose 2 percent to 230,000 won at the close in Seoul
trading, before the regulator’s announcement. The stock has
advanced 5.3 percent this year, compared with a 4.9 percent
decline for the Kospi Index.  “In order to understand the current truck market
situation, Hyundai Motor shared information including sales
figures through industry meetings, but we’ve never used it for
deciding on prices,” Hyundai said in an e-mailed statement.
“We will humbly accept the outcome of the FTC’s
investigation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jungah Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  