-- Ziggo Gains After Liberty Global Raises Stake: Amsterdam Mover
-- B y   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2013-07-29T11:39:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/ziggo-gains-after-liberty-global-raises-stake-amsterdam-mover.html
Ziggo NV (ZIGGO)  rose the most in more than
four months in Amsterdam after  John Malone ’s  Liberty Global Plc (LBTYA) 
raised its stake in the Dutch cable television operator.  Ziggo advanced as much as 5.9 percent, the biggest gain
since March 28. The shares traded up 3.4 percent at 28.89 euros
as of 1:14 p.m., giving the company a market value of 5.78
billion euros ($7.67 billion).  Liberty Global bought 17.5 million additional shares in the
Utrecht, Netherlands-based company in connection with a hedging
transaction related to existing Ziggo shares, according to an
SEC filing published July 26. The purchase was financed through
a loan linked to the transaction that is secured by Ziggo
shares. Liberty’s stake in Ziggo increased to 28.5 percent from
18.2 percent.  “We are however not surprised to see that  Liberty Global 
is further increasing its stake in Ziggo as the synergy
potential is substantial,” Emmanuel Carlier, a Brussels-based
analyst at ING Groep NV, said in a note to investors today.
Carlier has a hold recommendation on the stock.  Malone’s cable giant has been acquiring European assets to
expand in the continent’s pay-TV market. The Englewood,
Colorado-based company agreed this year to buy the U.K.’s Virgin
Media Inc. for $16 billion. This month, Malone said he’s out of
the race for  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8)  and will look to
southern Europe for opportunities when the economy there starts
improving.  Liberty raised its holding in Ziggo for strategic reasons,
Amsterdam-based spokesman Bert Holtkamp said by telephone July
27. He declined to comment on whether Liberty Global plans to
increase its holding further.  Liberty’s UPC Netherlands also provides cable-TV services
in the country, operating in regions where Ziggo isn’t present.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  