-- Zynga Is Said to Lose Three Top Executives This Month
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-07-30T20:05:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-29/zynga-is-said-to-lose-three-top-executives-this-month.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  has lost three top
executives this month, people familiar with the matter said,
increasing the number of managers who have exited the struggling
social-games developer.  John Osvald, a senior vice president of games, Jesse
Janosov, a vice president who ran Zynga’s casino division, and
Nathan Etter, a vice president of games, all resigned this
month, said the people, who asked not to be named because the
departures aren’t public. Etter left to take a job in the
interactive division of The Walt Disney Co., according to his
 profile  on  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) ’s website.  The exits follow the appointment this month of Microsoft
Corp. executive Don Mattrick as Zynga’s chief executive officer,
replacing founder  Mark Pincus . The departures are the latest of
more than a dozen top managers who have left since the company’s
December 2011 initial public offering, as waning demand for
Zynga’s games on  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s network has sent the shares
down more than 70 percent, eroding the value of equity-based
compensation.  Stephanie Hess, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based
Zynga, declined to comment on the personnel changes.  Zynga fell 1.7 percent to $2.97 at the close in  New York .  At the time of its IPO, Zynga was the largest maker of
games played on Facebook, with popular titles such as
“CityVille,” “FarmVille,” and “Mafia Wars.” The IPO raised
$1 billion, the biggest debut by a U.S. Internet company since
Google Inc. raised $1.9 billion in its 2004 IPO, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Waning Popularity  Since then, Zynga has lost traction on Facebook amid
competition from startups such as King.com, developer of “Candy
Crush Saga.” Earlier this month, King displaced Zynga as the
top maker of games for Facebook users. At the end of the second
quarter, Zynga had three top-10 titles on Facebook, down from
seven a year earlier, the company said last week.  Zynga, founded by Pincus in 2007, makes money from selling
players virtual goods for its games, such as a tractor in
“FarmVille.”  Mattrick is working to revive growth and reinvigorate
Zynga’s efforts in mobile games, where it has failed to produce
a lasting hit. The company expects two to four quarters of
“volatility” as he evaluates the business and product line and
develops a new strategy, he said on a conference call last week.  “We are missing out on the platform growth that Apple,
Google and Facebook are seeing,” Mattrick said on the call.
“We have the ability to break some bad habits and get back to
some good fundamentals.”  ‘FarmVille’ Group  Osvald and Etter joined Zynga in 2009, when the company was
growing rapidly and the popularity of games such as
“FarmVille” was rising. They both helped lead the group that
produced “FarmVille.”  Janosov led casino games, such as “Zynga Poker” and
“Zynga Elite Slots,” in which users gamble virtual money. The
company last week withdrew its application for a license to
enter real-money gambling in the U.S.  Zynga is increasingly competing with its own former
executives, many of whom have left to found mobile-gaming
startups. At least six companies have been created by former
Zynga employees, including Bee Cave Games Inc., JuiceBox Games
Inc., and TapZen Inc.  Top managers who have departed since the IPO include Mike Verdu, the former chief creative officer; Brian Reynolds, the
former chief game designer; marketing head Jeff Karp, and former
chief financial officer David Wehner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  