-- Adidas’ TaylorMade Chief Sees Big Golf Suppliers Getting Bigger
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-08-07T10:07:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/adidas-taylormade-chief-sees-big-golf-suppliers-getting-bigger.html
Golf-industry consolidation is set to
continue, according to the head of  Adidas AG (ADS) ’s TaylorMade brand,
as weaker equipment sales and a slowdown in course openings lead
smaller businesses into the arms of larger competitors.  “It’s a very challenging industry to find success,” Mark King, chief executive officer of TaylorMade, said in an Aug. 2
phone interview. “In some parts of the industry, like retail,
we’ve seen not only consolidation, but shrinking. We’ve seen the
reduction of some of the golf courses. We’ve seen plants
disappear. So there’ll still probably be some consolidation.”  Sales of golf equipment in U.S. on- and off-course shops
shrank by 17 percent to $2.41 billion from 2007 to 2011,
according to figures provided by  Golf Datatech , while the number
of courses opening in the country declined by more than 80
percent in the same period, the National Golf Foundation said.
That hasn’t stopped the biggest suppliers from getting bigger.
TaylorMade increased  sales  by 27 percent in those five years and
Adidas this year agreed to buy Adams Golf Inc. for $70 million.  The German company isn’t alone in wanting a larger slice of
an industry that research institute SRI International estimates
is worth $76 billion in the U.S. alone. Dick’s Sporting Goods
Inc. bought the Top-Flite brand this year, while Canadian golf
retailer Golf Town Canada Inc. acquired Austin, Texas-based
Golfsmith International Holdings Inc. for about $97 million.  Buyers may be encouraged by signs of a rebound in the
industry this year. Sales of golf equipment rose 9.9 percent in
the first six months of 2012, according to Golf Datatech, while
the  National Golf Foundation  estimates that the number of course
openings in the U.S. this year will stabilize at 20.  Chinese Opportunity  For TaylorMade, whose sales exceeded 1 billion euros ($1.24
billion) for the first time last year, one of the biggest
opportunities for growth may be in  China , according to King.  In as few as five years, China “probably has big
opportunities,” King said, cautioning that it could be as many
as 20. As Chinese migrate from rural areas to cities and the
middle class increases, “golf will boom in China,” he said.  The number of “golf enthusiasts” in China rose 22 percent
to 51.8 million from 2006 to 2011, according to Barry Johnston,
a spokesman for Cologne, Germany-based market researcher
 Sport+Markt AG . In  Europe  and  North America , interest during the
same period “remained pretty stable,” he said.  Golf’s importance to Adidas was highlighted when divisional
sales overtook the Reebok brand in the first half of this year.
While golf revenue rose 29 percent to 788 million euros on a
currency-adjusted basis, Reebok sales fell 16 percent to 787
million euros. Adidas posted total sales of 7.3 billion euros.  Olympic Golf  The increase in TaylorMade’s revenue was driven by “fast-
growing” sales of RocketBallz fairway woods and gains in the
U.S., King said. The CEO said he plans to boost the brand’s
share of the global market for iron clubs to 30 percent from 25
percent in the next few years, while aspiring to increase its
share in balls to 15 percent from about 8 percent.  To help achieve the former goal, TaylorMade has built
performance labs that allow players to purchase customized clubs
after having their swing analyzed with highspeed cameras. There
are about 20 centers in the U.S. and the brand plans to double
that number in the next three years, King said.  TaylorMade, based in Carlsbad,  California , will be seeking
to capitalize on opportunities presented by the return of golf
as an Olympic sport at the 2016 games in  Rio de Janeiro .  “It’s obviously going be a wonderful celebration of golf
to be back in the Olympics,” King said. “We plan to really be
a part of that. We’re going to take the opportunity over the
next four years to talk about it a lot, to support it a lot.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  