-- Agennix Plunges as Cancer Drug Fails in Trial: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2012-08-07T13:52:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/agennix-plunges-as-cancer-drug-fails-in-trial-frankfurt-mover.html
Agennix AG (AGX)  shares declined as much as
79 percent in  Frankfurt  trading after an experimental treatment
for lung cancer failed to meet targets in a late-stage trial,
threatening the company’s survival.  Talactoferrin, a replica of the human protein lactoferrin,
didn’t meet its primary endpoint of improving overall survival,
Agennix said in a statement yesterday. The drug also didn’t meet
a secondary goal of delaying or stopping the disease from
progressing and the company is stopping another trial of the
drug in the U.S. as a result, Rajesh Malik, chief medical
officer, said during a conference call today.  The biotech company is considering all options, including
winding down operations, Chief Financial Officer Torsten Hombeck
said during the call. He said it’s premature to talk about the
company’s other products, which are in the early stages of
development.  “The talactoferrin story is over,” Igor Kim, an analyst
with Close Brothers Seydler Research AG in Frankfurt, said in an
interview. He said Agennix’s best option is to merge with
another company, similar to  Sygnis Pharma AG (LIOK) ’s tie-up with
Genetrix’s X-Pol subsidiary following the failure of its main
program, an experimental stroke treatment. He cut his
recommendation on Agennix to sell from hold today.  Share Decline  Agennix dropped 73 percent to 49 cents at 3:46 p.m., giving
the company a market value of 25 million euros ($31 million).
The stock’s intraday decline was the biggest since 2009, when
the company was created through a merger of GPC Biotech AG and
Agennix.  The main trial, called Fortis-M, involved 720 patients
worldwide whose non-small cell cancer hadn’t responded to two
previous therapies. Another trial, called Fortis-C, enrolled 100
patients in the U.S. and was testing the drug as an early
treatment in  lung cancer  patients.  The company, which is based in the Munich suburb of
Martinsried, is taking “immediate steps” to conserve cash as
it studies its options, Hombeck said. More data from the trials
will be coming in over the next few weeks and must be analyzed,
he added.  Positive data would have been “transformative” for the
company, Malik said in an interview in July. Agennix’s only
other products are RGB-286638, in early-stage testing for
cancer, and a topical gel form of talactoferrin for diabetic
foot ulcers, also still in an experimental phase.  Lung Cancer  Lung cancer is the most prevalent type of tumor, with 1.6
million people diagnosed in 2008 and more than half of new cases
in  developing countries , according to Cancer Research U.K. In
the U.S. there will be an estimated 226,160 new cases diagnosed
this year and 160,340 deaths, the leading cause of cancer
fatalities there, according to the  American Cancer Society .  Drugs approved for treatment include  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s
Avastin and Tarceva and Eli Lilly & Co.’s Alimta.  Talactoferrin is an immunotherapy, which stimulates a
person’s immune system to fight off disease. The Agennix
treatment, administered as a drinkable liquid, targets dendritic
cells, a type of white blood cell, in the gut. The drug is
designed to prompt the dendritic cells to identify tumor cells
as invaders and signal the immune system to destroy them.  Median overall survival for patients in the study who got
talactoferrin was 7.5 months compared to 7.7 months for placebo,
Agennix said in reporting the trial results.  Patent  The company said on July 30 that it won a U.S. patent for
talactoferrin’s use in non-small cell lung cancer and renal
cancer in combination with other care, including chemotherapy,
radiotherapy and surgery.  “Harnessing the body’s immune system is very promising,”
Malik said in the July 17 interview. “There’s nothing like
using your own immune system to attack your own tumor.”  The company stopped a study in February of talactoferrin
for severe sepsis because more patients receiving the treatment
died than those who got a placebo.  Agennix’s biggest shareholder is Dievini Hopp BioTech
Holding GmbH, owned by  SAP AG (SAP)  co-founder Dietmar Hopp. Chief
Financial Officer Hombeck said in July that the company had
enough cash to continue operating through the middle of the
fourth quarter and is looking at selling either more shares or
debt to fund increased spending into 2013.  Hopp was “very disappointed and surprised” by the
results, Hombeck said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  