-- Thai Lawsuit Threatens to Derail Laos Plans for Mekong River Dam
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-08-07T04:33:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/thai-lawsuit-threatens-to-derail-laos-plans-for-mekong-river-dam.html
A group of Thai villagers moved to
block a state-run company from buying electricity generated by a
hydropower dam in Laos in a bid to halt the $3.6 billion project
on the Mekong River that is opposed by downstream nations.  The 37 villagers filed a lawsuit in the  Administrative
Court  today to cancel an agreement for the  Electricity
Generating Authority of Thailand  to buy almost all the power
from the 1,285-megawatt dam.  Ch. Karnchang Pcl (CK) , PTT Pcl and
 Electricity Generating Pcl (EGCO)  are among major shareholders of
Xayaburi Power Co., the dam’s operator.  “EGAT signed a contract without the process of consulting
or giving information to stakeholders,” said Teerapong Pomun, a
member of Living River Siam, one of the groups that assisted the
villagers. “The dam construction in Laos will cause an impact
in  Thailand , and Thai authorities have not done any activity
according to the constitution to study the impact.”  The case threatens to derail a project that Laos is
depending on to bolster the smallest economy in the 10-member
 Association of Southeast Asian Nations . Since 2006, Thailand’s
Administrative Court has blocked EGAT’s plans for an initial
public offering, halted 76 government-approved industrial
projects and delayed a sale of high-speed mobile-phone licenses.  Thailand’s  constitution  prohibits projects or activities
that may harm the environment without public consultation,
impact studies and opinions from independent organizations. It
also gives people the right to sue state enterprises.  EGAT Targeted  The villagers filed the lawsuit against five Thai
government entities including EGAT, according to documents
distributed to reporters at the court by the Thai People’s
Network of Eight Mekong Provinces, an activist group.  “We haven’t been informed that the NGO will file a lawsuit
against EGAT,” EGAT’s legal affairs bureau said in an e-mailed
statement today. “However, in the event that we are sued by the
NGO with respect to this matter, we are ready to make any
clarification to the court.”  Laos , a landlocked nation of 6 million people bordering
 China , plans to expand its generating capacity and sell
electricity to its neighbors. Xayaburi’s approval may clear the
way for seven other dams that Laos plans to build on the Mekong.  “I don’t think  Vietnam  or China want to buy power from
Xayaburi dam because it’s too far and it would cost a lot to
build a power line,” Teerapong said. “Thailand is the only
country that would be a buyer.”  Rice, Fish  Hydropower’s contribution to the Laos government’s revenue
will more than double to 1 percent of gross domestic product
compared with two years ago, according to the  World Bank . The
pipeline of hydropower and mining projects combined with
increased electricity demand in neighboring countries will
probably keep economic growth at 8 percent a year through 2015,
the  International Monetary Fund  said in a  report  last year.  Vietnam has recommended a 10-year delay for all hydropower
projects on the Mekong, which winds through Myanmar, Thailand
and  Cambodia  from its source in China’s Tibetan plateau. About
60 million people depend on the river and its tributaries for
food, water and transportation, according to the  Mekong River
Commission . Neighboring countries are concerned the dam will
disrupt fisheries and rice production.  Laos has aimed to convince its neighbors by showing them
studies it commissioned from  Compagnie Nationale du Rhône  and
Switzerland-based Poyry Energy AG. CNR recommended additional
studies to improve the project, the company said on Aug. 2.  The issue of sediment transport “is one of the most
important for the Xayaburi dam,” the company said. Solutions
“need to be developed and their costs evaluated,” it said.  Hillary Clinton  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  pushed for more studies
on the dam during a visit to Laos last month, the first by the
top U.S. diplomat in 57 years. Laotian Prime Minister Thongsing
Thammavong assured Clinton that the Xayaburi project wouldn’t
proceed without approval from neighboring countries, according
to a State Department official who wasn’t authorized to speak on
the record.  Ch. Karnchang, Thailand’s third-biggest construction
company by market value, owns a 50 percent stake in Xayaburi,
according to a  presentation  on its website.  PTT (PTT) , Thailand’s
biggest company, has a 25 percent stake and Electricity
Generating owns 12.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  