-- Halkbank CEO Aslan Says Turkey May Need to Act on Bad Loans
-- B y   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c   a n d   S i b e l   A k b a y
-- 2012-08-07T11:38:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/halkbank-ceo-aslan-says-turkey-may-need-to-act-on-bad-loans-1-.html
Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB)  Chief
Executive Officer Suleyman Aslan said  Turkey ’s central bank and
regulators may need to act should bad loans in the nation’s
financial system worsen.  Halkbank, as the lender is known, is Turkey’s biggest
listed state-run bank. Aslan, speaking in a televised interview
with the CNBC-e news channel today, didn’t specify what measures
he wanted policymakers to take, though he said the central
bank’s average lending rate to banks was “rather high.” He also
said lenders’ “asset structures are not breaking down” as a
result of bad loans.  Halkbank shares  fell 3.4 percent to 15.60 liras at 2:18
p.m. in Istanbul trading. JPMorgan Chase & Co. removed Halkbank
from its top 10 stock list for central and eastern  Europe , the
Middle East and  Africa  today.  Turkey’s economic growth is forecast to slow to 2.3 percent
this year from 8.5 percent in 2011, the International Money Fund
said in April, while central bank data shows non-performing
consumer loans rose 4.4 percent in the first six months of 2012
compared with a year earlier, led by unpaid credit-card bills.  Aslan today forecast that the Turkish central bank will
ease monetary policy, reducing the upper end of its interest-
rate corridor of between 5.75 percent and 11.5 percent. Current
levels of market interest rates are responsible for a slowdown
in lending by banks, he said.  Turkish banks’ provisions may increase this year because of
non-performing loans caused by a slowdown in the economy, Duygun Kutucu, an analyst at EFG Istanbul Securities, said in a
telephone interview on July 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sibel Akbay in Ankara at 
 sakbay@bloomberg.net  