-- Amazon Debuts ‘Living Classics’ Social Game on Facebook Site
-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t
-- 2012-08-07T18:22:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/amazon-debuts-living-classics-social-game-on-facebook-website.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s biggest
online retailer, said it debuted a social game called “Living
Classics” on  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s website in “its first major foray
into video game development.”  The game is free to play and features a family of foxes
wandering through scenes from books including “Alice in
Wonderland” and “The Wizard of Oz,” Seattle-based Amazon said
on its  website . Amazon said it’s hiring game developers and
plans to introduce more titles through Amazon Game Studios.  Amazon’s push into social games challenges  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , the
game developer that generates most of its revenue from goods
sold through popular titles on  Facebook , such as a gun in
“Mafia Wars” or a tractor in “Farmville.”  “We know that many Amazon customers enjoy playing games --
including free-to-play social games -- and thanks to Amazon’s
know-how, we believe we can deliver a great, accessible gaming
experience that gamers and our customers can play any time,”
Amazon said on its website.  In another potential challenge to Zynga,  MGM Resorts
International (MGM) , the largest casino operator on the  Las Vegas
Strip , introduced a social gambling application on Facebook
yesterday through a partnership with game developer Playstudios
Inc. The app, called  myVegas , lets users gamble and explore
iconic properties including the Monte Carlo and Circus Circus.  Players can win loyalty points within the games for real-
world rewards such as choosing a song for the Bellagio hotel
fountain or diving with the sharks at Mandalay Bay’s acquarium.  Zynga plans to introduce real-money gambling by the middle
of next year, pending regulatory approval, said John Schappert,
chief operating officer, in an interview last month.  The company makes the five most popular games played on
Facebook, according to AppData. “Texas HoldEm Poker,” with
35.2 million monthly active users, and “Bubble Safari,” with
28.2 million users, top the social gaming charts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in  New York  at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  