-- Manu Said to Get Enough Orders for All Shares of U.S. IPO
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 2012-08-07T12:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/manchester-united-said-to-get-enough-orders-for-all-ipo-shares.html
Manchester United Ltd. (MANU) , the English
soccer team with a record 19 national championships, received
enough orders for all shares being sold in its U.S. initial
public offering, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  The company and its owner, the Glazer family, are seeking
to raise as much as $333 million by selling 16.7 million shares
at $16 to $20 each, according to a regulatory filing last month.
Banks managing the IPO are scheduled to stop taking orders for
the shares on Aug. 9 at noon in New York, according to one of
the people, who declined to be identified because the talks are
private.  United, whose players include England’s striker  Wayne Rooney  and Welshman Ryan Giggs, picked the U.S. as its listing
venue after ditching plans for a share sale of as much as $1
billion in Singapore. It’s pressing ahead with the IPO as the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rebounds, rising more than 9 percent
from its six-month low in June.  Manchester United spokesman Philip Townsend declined to
comment.  General Motors Co. (GM) , the world’s largest carmaker, signed a
seven-year deal to have its Chevrolet brand on United’s jerseys
starting in 2014, according to a press release last month. GM
sponsorship agreement will generate $559 million through 2021,
the club said in a filing on Aug. 3.  $4.50 per Fan  United’s sponsorships and product licensing helped generate
89.5 million pounds ($140 million) of revenue in the nine months
through March 31, more than one-third of total revenue, filings
show. That’s 17 percent more than the year-earlier period.  The club has 659 million followers, United said in its
filing, citing a study by Kantar Media. The number of followers
is estimated based on the number of respondents in the study who
answered, unprompted, that United was either their favorite team
or a team they enjoyed following, the filing shows. The IPO
values the club at about $4.50 per follower, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The midpoint of the offering range would value the club at
$2.95 billion, or about 50 times profit of 38 million pounds in
the 12 months through March 31, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It’s also about 5 times sales of 345.6 million pounds
during the same period.  Twice as Pricey  The range makes United more than twice as pricey as  Parken
Sport & Entertainment A/S (PARKEN) , the operator of F.C. Kobenhaven and
its stadium in Copenhagen, which trades at 18 times profit and
0.6 times sales in the 12 months through March, Bloomberg data
show.  Juventus Football Club SpA (JUVE)  , the Turin, Italy-based team,
trades at about 0.5 times sales in the 12 months through March
31, the data show.  The Glazer family acquired United for 790 million pounds
($980 million) in 2005, and also own the National Football
League’s Tampa Bay Buccaneers.  The Glazers, who fully own United, hold Class B shares,
which are entitled to 10 votes apiece. The Class A shares being
sold in the IPO get one vote each, according to filings. The
Glazers will maintain almost 99 percent of voting power over the
club after the offering, in which a 10 percent stake of the
company is being sold.  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  are leading the U.S. offering for the soccer club,
along with  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   Morgan
Stanley (MS) , which had been hired to lead the sale in Singapore, is
no longer working on the sale. The club plans to list on the New
York Stock Exchange under the symbol MANU.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  