-- Ann Romney Stays Loyal to Dressage, Plans to Breed Rafalca
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-08-07T17:26:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/ann-romney-stays-loyal-to-dressage-plans-to-breed-rafalca-1-.html
Ann Romney , the wife of Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , signaled she has no plan to
exit the sport of dressage, which has led to charges that her
husband is out of touch with ordinary Americans.  Romney said she will try breeding from Rafalca, the 15-
year-old mare she co-owns, which was competing at the  Olympic
Games  in  London  today. The earliest the horse could foal would
be 2014 if it stopped competing this year, or later if she
continues competing, as her owners intend.  “We’ll try that,” Romney said in an interview when asked
if she planned to breed from the mare. “We just love her.”  Rafalca has at least another year of competition in her,
rider Jan Ebeling told reporters after his performance today,
and said he has discussed with the mare’s owners the possibility
of breeding from her when she retires.  “Since she’s very sound, we’re probably going to see her
for a year or two,” he told reporters. “There are thoughts
about breeding from her, I think she’d make a great brood
mare.”  Britain won the team dressage today for the first time,
ending a run of five straight gold medals for  Germany , which got
silver. The Netherlands got the bronze. The U.S. was sixth.  Ebeling and Rafalca finished 28th place after two tests,
which left the pair out of the individual freestyle final in two
days. The top 18 riders advanced.  Punch Line  Mitt Romney is the presumptive Republican presidential
candidate. As Rafalca pursued Olympic glory, she became a
political punch line. Former Democratic presidential candidate
 Al Gore ’s Current TV put together a comparison of the costs of
raising a family and raising a dressage horse. (Family shelter,
$16,352; horse, $28,800.)  In June,  Stephen Colbert  opened his show on the Comedy
Central network with a long Rafalca bit.  “The image of Romney as a privileged princeling ends
today,” Colbert said, “because now Mitt is just your average
blue-collar fan of dressage.” Colbert then donned a foam finger
and trucker hat, chugged from a bottle of beer, and chanted,
“Rafalca, No. 1!”  Breeding Season  The equestrian breeding season in the northern hemisphere
typically runs from March until the end of July and mares carry
for 11 months.  Rafalca was more settled today than during her first test
last week. The Oldenburger bay mare scored the highest points on
accurate transitions and half-passes, while her pirouettes at
the end were slightly too big.  After Rafalca came to a halt, Romney, who was sitting with
co-owners Beth Meyer and Amy Ebeling, stood and applauded from
the fifth row of the grandstand as the horse and rider scored
69.302 percent.  Ebeling blew a kiss to the women, who he described as “the
three amigos,” and later joined them in the stand, where U.K.
Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  had also gone to sit next to them.  “Fabulous, it was wonderful, she is elegant and consistent
again,” Romney said as she left the grandstand, wearing a red
raincoat.  “He was great,” she said, as she put her arm on the
German-born Ebeling’s shoulder.  Ebeling sparked Romney’s interest in dressage and it helped
her deal with multiple sclerosis, she said.  “With this guy right here, helping me with my MS,” Romney
said when asked how she got involved in the sport.  Romney added she was “very impressed” with Ebeling’s
teammate Steffen Peters and Ravel, who are lying in seventh
place ahead of the freestyle final with 76.254 percent.  Visibility  “I’m really happy with the horse, she did great,” Ebeling
said. “She’s been really good this week, she’s given it her all
and that’s all I could ask.”  The U.S. Equestrian Federation, which wants to use the
publicity around dressage from Romney’s involvement to boost the
sport in the U.S., had handed out foam fingers and trucker caps
to supporters in the first round on Aug. 2 in an attempt to
redress its elitist image.  “I think having Mrs. Romney and having the visibility and
having the mainstream media report on our sport so much has
really been a great thing,” Ebeling said. “If just one kid
takes up riding and makes their way to the Olympics, my job is
done.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in at Greenwich Park at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ; Danielle Rossingh at Greenwich Park at
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net ; James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  