-- Apple Seeks Swift Appeal of Kodak Imaging Patent Ruling
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-08-07T16:27:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/apple-seeks-swift-appeal-of-kodak-imaging-patent-ruling.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , which lost part of a
court fight with  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ)  this month when a federal
judge denied its ownership claim of two digital image patents,
is seeking a swift appeal of his decision.  Bankrupt Kodak sued Apple in June, accusing the iPhone
maker of trying to disrupt an auction of more than 1,000 patents
that officially starts tomorrow. A judge in  Manhattan  ruled in
favor of Kodak on two of 10 patents claimed by Apple, which
Kodak plans to sell as part of its bankruptcy restructuring.
Apple can’t appeal his decision until he makes his ruling final.  “There is no just reason to delay an appeal,” a lawyer
for Apple told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Allan Gropper yesterday in
a letter, asking him to enter a final order in court records.
“Apple believes it is in all of the parties’ interests to
resolve all potential appeals on these issues as soon as
possible.”  Apple has been trying to move the Kodak lawsuit from
 bankruptcy court  to U.S. District Court so another judge can
review the merits of its “inventorship and ownership claims,”
it has said.  It renewed its effort to move the case on Aug. 2, a day
after Gropper’s ruling, it said. It might be “appropriate” if
the judge’s order included a qualification that his decision can
be reviewed by a district judge, Apple said.  Eight Patents  In an Aug. 2 letter to U.S. District Judge George Daniels,
Apple noted that Gropper ruled against Kodak on eight of the
10 patents. Daniels invited Apple to come back to him after
Gropper had ruled on the case, according to the letter.  Apple asked Gropper to remove from his pending order some
of the language proposed by Kodak, saying the iPhone maker “has
no interest in” or is “enjoined from attempting to prevent,
hinder or delay” the patent sale.  The phrases might be interpreted as “an improper attempt
to strip Apple” of its right to appeal, the company said in the
letter, filed in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan.  The Apple lawsuit is Eastman Kodak Co. v. Apple Inc., 12-
01720, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 