-- Apple Ties to Samsung in Sharp Contrast to Courtoom Clash
-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-08-07T17:14:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/apple-ties-to-samsung-in-sharp-contrast-to-courtoom-clash.html
Whatever the jury decides at the end
of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s trial against Samsung Electronics Co., Apple’s
deep ties to Samsung are becoming more apparent even as the two
companies clash in court.  As the trial enters its second week, Apple is producing
testimony intended to prove that the South Korean company copied
patented technology for smartphones and tablet computers.  “There are a number of Samsung phones and two Samsung
tablets that are substantially the same as those” described by
Apple patents,  Peter Bressler , an inventor of 70 design and
utility patents, said yesterday before a jury in federal court
in  San Jose ,  California .  Bressler, who teaches product design at the  University of
Pennsylvania , was the latest expert to testify for Apple, laying
the groundwork for infringement claims. The Cupertino,
California-based company seeks $2.5 billion in damages.  The allegations over intellectual property contrast with
the lucrative commercial ties that bind the two companies.
Apple’s reliance on  Samsung (005930)  chips for its best-selling phones
and tablets will be worth as much as $7.5 billion to Samsung
this year, a 60 percent jump from 2011, Gartner Inc. estimates.
Because Apple would struggle to find an alternate supplier for
the main processor in its mobile devices, the computer maker
can’t quit buying from its competitor anytime soon, whatever the
trial’s outcome.  ‘Ugly Divorce’  “As much as these companies go head to head, there’s a
definite intertwining there that makes it a real ugly divorce if
it were to take place,” said Len Jelinek, an analyst at market
researcher IHS Inc. “Apple cannot, under any circumstances, be
caught in a capacity-crunch situation.”  Apple’s spending has helped arm Samsung with resources to
fuel a surging mobile-phone business that’s now the global
leader. At a time when there are few other manufacturers able to
reliably produce the millions of key chips Apple needs each
quarter, switching to an unproven partner could result in parts
shortages that might help Samsung grab even more market share.
Samsung, meanwhile, would risk losing the business of its
biggest customer if Apple were to move elsewhere.  The two companies on July 30 began a  jury trial  in federal
court in San Jose to try Apple’s claims that Samsung copied its
iPad and iPhone designs and Samsung’s counterclaims that it is
the victim of patent infringement by Apple. The companies also
have sued each other in the U.K.,  Australia  and  South Korea ,
among other countries, in a bid for dominance of a mobile-phone
market that Bloomberg Industries estimated at $320.4 billion
last year.  Samsung Ties  Apple accounts for  8.8 percent  of Samsung’s revenue, making
it the company’s largest customer, according to a Bloomberg
supply-chain analysis. The next biggest is Hewlett-Packard Co.,
providing 3.2 percent.  Samsung and Apple’s interdependence traces its roots to the
beginning of the iPhone. Ahead of the 2007 debut, Apple realized
it needed a processor better tailored to the device. A
microprocessor acts as the brains of a device, determining how
fast it runs and letting it perform critical tasks. Apple turned
to Samsung, then ramping up a division that makes so-called
logic chips, which handle the devices’ other functions.  The two companies, which had already worked together in
screens and memory chips, cut a deal that resulted in Samsung
becoming the sole manufacturer of the so-called A-series of
chips, which are at the heart of the iPhone and iPad.  Together, those products  generated  $67.4 billion in sales
for Apple in the latest fiscal year. The company may spend about
$2.1 billion on A-series chips this year alone, according to
Gartner. About 20 percent of Apple’s iPhone is comprised of
Samsung technology, the Suwon, South Korea-based company said at
the trial last week.  Scant Alternatives  Other chipmakers would probably welcome Apple’s business.
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., the largest maker of
chips to order, said last month that it was open to devoting one
or more factories to a single customer. The statement was aimed
at Apple or Qualcomm Inc., another maker of mobile chips,
according to  Sam Wang , an analyst at Gartner.  Still, switching to another foundry such as TSMC would
bring challenges. TSMC would have to limit orders from other
customers to accommodate Apple’s needs, and it uses a different
production technology than Samsung, requiring a redesign of the
processors from the ground up, Wang said. TSMC rival  United
Microelectronics Corp. (2303)  is too small, and Globalfoundries Inc. is
too far behind on production technology, he said.  “There’s an incredible cost to doing that, and it would be
very difficult,” said Michael Hasler, a former supply-chain
management executive at chipmaker Applied Materials Inc., who
now lectures at the  University of Texas at Austin . “On the
surface it seems like an obvious thing to do, but actually
executing it would be very expensive.”  SK Hynix  Samsung’s dominance of the market for key parts doesn’t end
with processors. All modern mobile devices use so-called flash-
memory chips to store music, video and program files -- features
essential to their allure for consumers. Samsung has a third of
that market. The company is also the largest maker of liquid
crystal displays, with Apple’s Retina displays being made in
Samsung plants, the South Korean company said in court.  There are signs Apple is taking steps away from Samsung.
Some of the memory components in the iPhone 4S, which was
released last year, come from SK Hynix Inc., said Stuart Robinson, an analyst who studies the smartphone-component
industry for  Strategy Analytics . New screen technology that will
be part of the next version of the iPhone, to be released this
year, is being made by LG Display Co., Sharp Corp. and Japan
Display KK, according to Sanford Bernstein & Co. research.  “They are trying to reduce their dependency on Samsung as
much as possible,” Robinson said.  Buckle Down  What complicates those efforts is that Samsung has
contributed technology to Apple’s chip designs, according to  Jim
McGregor , founder of Arizona-based  Tirias Research . Shifting to
another manufacturer would make Apple vulnerable to more
litigation or force it to pay license fees, he said.  Making processors is only becoming more complex, and the
designs of the products more intricate, McGregor said. In the
past, foundries would gradually introduce new machinery via
limited runs on products that only required small volumes. With
phone manufacturers’ current need for hundreds of millions of
chips built on the latest technology, the risk is increasing of
a hiccup that might limit output.  Apple can’t take that chance. As Samsung, Google,  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  and Nokia Oyj vie for a piece of the smartphone business,
“now is not the time to be jumping ship,” McGregor said.  “Now is time to be buckling down and making sure you’ve
got a partner that you can work with,” he said. “It’s only
going to get worse going forward.”  Line ‘Crossed’  The relationship began to fray when Samsung started to
release smartphones and tablets that compete with the iPhone and
iPad. Samsung, relying on Google’s Android software, has become
the world’s largest smartphone manufacturer, accounting for 33
percent of global  shipments  in the second quarter, compared with
17 percent for Apple, according to IDC.  That doesn’t mean that Samsung holds all the cards. Apple
has more than $117 billion in  cash and investments , and will use
part of that hoard to extend its lead as the biggest purchaser
of semiconductors. Apple will increase its orders by 15 percent
to almost $28 billion, according to an estimate from IHS. Apple
also buys chips from suppliers such as Qualcomm and Broadcom
Corp.  The tension between being Samsung’s chief buyer and
toughest rival isn’t lost on Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook .  “We are Samsung’s largest customer. And Samsung is a very
valued component supplier to us, and I expect the strong
relationship will continue,” Cook said on a conference call
last year. “Separately from this, we felt the mobile-
communication division of Samsung had crossed the line. And
after trying for some time to work the issue, we decided we
needed to rely on the courts.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  