-- Apple Expert Says Buyers Mistook Samsung Tablets for iPad
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-08-07T18:11:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/apple-expert-cites-returns-of-samsung-tablets-mistaken-for-ipad.html
(Corrects story first published yesterday to remove
reference to Kare doing iPhone graphics in 23rd paragraph.)  A paid  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  witness testified
in the company’s patent case against  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) 
that he studied a report finding that  Best Buy Co. (BBY)  customers
mistakenly bought Samsung products thinking they were Apple’s.  Peter Bressler, an industrial designer who said Apple has
paid him a total of $75,000 so far in the trial, yesterday told
jurors in federal court in  San Jose ,  California , about data in a
report showing that the most common reason Best Buy customers
return Samsung’s Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet computer is because they
thought they had bought the iPad 2.  During cross-examination, Samsung’s attorney, Charles K. Verhoeven, confronted Bressler with video-taped deposition
testimony from April 2012, in which the designer was asked if he
believed that consumers purchasing products get confused between
Apple and Samsung products.  “I do not know if they get confused,” Bressler said,
testifying as an expert witness in the second week of the trial.  Apple and Samsung are the world’s largest makers of the
high-end handheld devices that blend the functionality of a
phone and a computer. The trial is the first before a U.S. jury
in a battle being waged on four continents for dominance in a
smartphone market valued by Bloomberg Industries at $219.1
billion. Each company is trying to convince jurors at the  trial
that its rival infringed patents covering designs and
technology.  ‘User Research’  Bressler is an expert in “user research, human factors
application, manufacturing processes and innovative criteria
conflict resolution,” according to the website for his company,
Philadelphia-based BresslerGroup. His testimony may continue to
lay the groundwork for Apple’s infringement claims, which Apple
started last week with  Scott Forstall , the company’s senior vice
president in charge of iPhone and iPad software. He gave jurors
the first detailed testimony about one of the patents at issue.  Apple seeks $2.5 billion for its claims that Samsung
infringed patents. Samsung, based in Suwon,  South Korea ,
countersued and will present claims that Apple is infringing two
patents covering mobile-technology standards and three utility
patents. Apple, based in Cupertino, California, also wants to
make permanent a preliminary ban it won on U.S. sales of a
Samsung tablet, and extend the ban to Samsung smartphones.  70 Patents  Bressler, who is an inventor on 70 design and utility
patents and teaches product design at the  University of
Pennsylvania , said he had studied different versions of the
iPhone in preparation for his testimony. Shown diagrams from
Apple’s patents and actual phones based on them, he described
the “rectangular proportion” of the diagrams as providing “a
specific impression or design.”  The phones “embody the design of the patent,” he said in
response to questions from Apple’s lawyer, Rachel Krevans.  Bressler said he performed an infringement analysis of the
Galaxy S 4G phone and found that its “flat, uninterrupted
surface” and “rectangular proportions” infringe Apple’s
patents. He said he arrived at the same conclusion after doing a
similar analysis for more than 10 other Samsung phones and a
Samsung tablet.  Court Order  Before trial, Apple won a court order from U.S. District
Judge Lucy Koh temporarily blocking U.S. sales of Samsung’s
Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet, a ruling that was upheld by the  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in  Washington .  Bressler said the “prior art,” or earlier inventions,
that Samsung argues are in patents preceding Apple’s describe a
different product. Those patents Samsung is relying on to defend
against the infringement claims describe front screens that are
convex, not flat, he said.  During cross-examination, Samsung’s attorney showed
Bressler images of smartphones, including  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) ’s
Prada, comparing the images to an image from the patent Apple
accuses Samsung of infringing.  “Each of the images we’ve looked at are rectangular in
shape with rounded corners,” Verhoeven said.  Verhoeven asked Bressler if all the images have a large,
centered screen, narrower lateral borders and larger borders
above and below the screen, and a lozenge-shaped slot for the
speaker.  Bressler acknowledged the similarities, while noting that
not all the images depict a bezel, a band of metal wrapping
around the phones.  ‘That’s Important’  “The absence of a bezel, that’s important, right?”
Verhoeven asked. “It takes you out of ‘substantial
similarity,’” Verhoeven asked. He asked whether an “ordinary
observer” evaluating patents is supposed to take into account
prior inventions and “focus on differences, right.”  Such an analysis requires one to look at “all views of the
patent,” Bressler said. “You can’t get that understanding from
a single view,” he said.  Susan Busch, a Best Buy spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return phone and e-mail messages after regular business hours
seeking comment on the trial testimony.  Earlier yesterday the jury heard from Samsung Vice
President Justin Denison, the company’s chief strategy officer
for Samsung Telecommunications America, who said he finds
“offensive” claims his company is copying Apple.  Samsung is proud of the “products it produces, and all the
hard work that goes into bringing those products to market,”
Denison said. Samsung “does an excellent job of remaining very
humble,” with its employees possessing a “self-critical”
attitude that drives “change, innovation,” Denison said,
responding to questions from Samsung’s lawyer,  John Quinn .  Today’s Witness  Today, Apple is scheduled to call as a witness a former
graphics and digital font designer for the company, Susan Kare.  Kare began her career at Apple as the screen graphics and
digital font designer for the original  Macintosh computer ,
according to her website. Now at Susan Kare User Interface
Graphics in San Francisco, she has done images for  Facebook Inc. (FB) 
and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , according to the site.  “Good icons should be more like road signs than
illustrations, easily comprehensible, and not cluttered with
extraneous detail,” according to her website. “Just because
millions of colors are available, every one need not be used in
every icon.”  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd.,
11-cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  