-- Apple, Zimmer, Media Televisi: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-08-07T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/apple-zimmer-scripps-media-televisi-intellectual-property.html
An industrial designer testifying for
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in its multibillion-dollar trial against  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  said the South Korean company copied patented
technology for smartphones and tablet computers.  Apple yesterday called as a witness Peter Bressler, the
founder and chairman of Philadelphia-based BresslerGroup and an
inventor on 70 design and utility patents who teaches product
design at the  University of Pennsylvania .  Bressler said he had studied different versions of the
iPhone in preparation for his testimony. Shown diagrams from
Apple’s patents and actual phones based on them, he described
the “rectangular proportion” of the diagrams as providing “a
specific impression or design.”  The phones “embody the design of the patent,” he said in
response to questions from Apple’s lawyer, Rachel Krevans.  Bressler said he performed an infringement analysis of the
Galaxy S 4G phone and found that its “flat, uninterrupted
surface” and “rectangular proportions” infringe Apple’s
patents. He said he arrived at the same conclusion after doing a
similar analysis for more than 10 other Samsung phones and a
Samsung tablet.  He is an expert in “user research, human factors
application, manufacturing processes and innovative criteria
conflict resolution,” according to his website. His testimony
may continue to lay the groundwork for Apple’s infringement
claims, which Apple started last week with  Scott Forstall , the
company’s senior vice president in charge of iPhone and iPad
software. He gave jurors the first detailed testimony about one
of the patents at issue.  Earlier yesterday the jury heard from Samsung Vice
President Justin Denison, the company’s chief strategy officer
for Samsung Telecommunications America, who said he finds
“offensive” claims his company is copying Apple.  Samsung is proud of the “products it produces, and all the
hard work that goes into bringing those products to market,”
Denison said. Samsung “does an excellent job of remaining very
humble,” with its employees possessing a “self-critical”
attitude that drives “change, innovation,” Denison said under
questioning from Samsung’s lawyer,  John Quinn .  Apple and Samsung are battling for leadership in the global
smartphone market. As companies including  Research In Motion
Ltd. (RIM)  and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  face mounting losses, the two rivals are
garnering a larger piece of the market’s profits.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  Zimmer Wins Genzyme Trial Over Knee-Arthritis Treatment  Zimmer Holdings Inc. (ZMH)  and  Seikagaku Corp. (4548)  won a U.S. patent-
infringement trial brought by  Sanofi’s (SAN)  Genzyme over a treatment
for arthritis in the knee.  A federal jury in Boston said Aug. 3 the Gel-One product
made by Tokyo-based Seikagaku and distributed by Zimmer doesn’t
infringe Genzyme’s patent 7,931,030, which covers a method to
treat arthritic pain in the knee. The jury also said that the
patent is invalid because it covered obvious variations of
earlier work.  Genzyme’s Synvisc-One product was the only single-injection
treatment approved by U.S. regulators until Gel-One was given
clearance in March 2011, according to the complaint filed in
federal court one month after the approval was granted. The
injection of a hyaluronic acid gel provides pain relief for as
long as six months, Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Genzyme said.  U.S. District Judge Douglas Woodlock issued an order Dec.
30 preventing Warsaw, Indiana-based Zimmer from selling Gel-One
at a price less than $547.60 per injection or giving out free
samples, so it didn’t undercut the price of Synvisc-One. The
judge vacated that order following the jury verdict.  Synvisc and Gel-One use different compositions of the
hyaluronic acid, and the patent covers a way of providing the
treatment through a single injection rather than multiple
injections over a period of time, said Sarah Columbia of
Chicago’s McDermott Will & Emery LLP, who represented Zimmer and
Seikagaku.  Synvisc and Synvisc-One generated 184 million euros ($228
million) in the first half of the year for Sanofi. Sales were up
8.9 percent over the year-earlier period, the Paris-based
company said July 26. Zimmer doesn’t break out sales of Gel-One.  The case is Genzyme Corp. v. Seikagaku Corp, 1:11-cv-10636-
DPW, U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts
(Boston).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  China Police Arrest More Than 1,900 People in Fake-Drug Hunt  Police in China arrested more than 1,900 people and seized
about 1.16 billion  yuan  ($182 million) worth of counterfeit
drugs and related goods amid a government crackdown in the
world’s fastest-growing pharmaceuticals market.  The fake drugs seized were illegally advertised to treat
illnesses including hypertension, diabetes, skin diseases and
cancer, the Ministry of Public Security said in an Aug. 5
statement. More than 18,000 members of the police contributed to
breaking up drug-counterfeit rings across the country, it said.  “The criminals have come up with new ways to conceal,”
the ministry said in the statement. “Counterfeit drug crimes
have still not been eradicated.”  Less than 1 percent of medicines in developed markets and
as much as 30 percent or more in  developing countries  are fake,
World Health Organization estimates show. China and India are
the biggest suppliers of the counterfeits, which cause 700,000
deaths a year among malaria and tuberculosis sufferers alone,
according to the Washington-based International Policy Network.  The statement didn’t specify whether the fake drugs were
meant for the domestic or international market.  The Ministry of Public Security will offer as much as
50,000 yuan to anyone who contributes to uncovering fake
medicine rings and operations, it said in the statement.  China criminalized the manufacture of counterfeit medicines
last year and raised maximum penalties to the death sentence to
try to contain illegal production.  Drug spending in China is forecast to rise at a compound
annual rate of 19 percent to 22 percent in the five years to
2015, reaching as much as $125 billion, IMS Health Inc. said in
a May 2011 report. That’s the fastest growth rate globally,
according to the Parsippany, New Jersey-based researcher.  Gabby Douglas Needs Jalen Rose Assist for Fab Five Windfall  The key to a potential pay day for Gabby Douglas and her
four U.S. gymnastics gold-medal teammates belongs to a member of
another “Fab Five.”  Jalen Rose, a member of the  University of Michigan ’s “Fab
Five” basketball team of 1991, was granted the trademark for
the term last year, according to the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office website.  For the last week the phrase has been associated with the
gymnasts who won the team gold medal at the London Olympics and
are preparing for an endorsement windfall.  “If you’re Jalen Rose, you’ve got a real opportunity
here,” said attorney Pamela M. Deese, a partner at the
Washington law firm Arent Fox who assisted National Basketball
Association player Jeremy Lin with his “Linsanity” trademark.
“It makes sense for him to approach the women’s gymnastics
people.”  Rose was a member of the highly touted freshman class that
included fellow NBA players Chris Webber and Juwan Howard, as
well as Jimmy King and Ray Jackson. The group reached the men’s
college basketball championship game as freshmen and sophomores,
losing both times. ESPN made a documentary about the basketball
team called “Fab Five.”  A Google search of the term “Fab Five gymnastics” yields
almost 1.6 million results.  The 39-year-old Rose, a basketball analyst with Walt Disney
Co.’s ESPN, wasn’t available for comment, according to network
spokesman Ben Cafardo.  USA Gymnastics spokeswoman Luan Peszek said in an e-mail
the organization will use the “Fierce Five” catchphrase for a
reason unrelated to trademark restriction.  “The girls liked Fierce Five,” she said.  Fierce Five is available, according to the patent and
trademark office. The term was trademarked by DreamWorks
Animation and abandoned in 2009.  Paul J. Reilly of the  New York  law firm  Baker Botts , the
attorney listed on Rose’s trademark filing, said in a telephone
interview that he hadn’t “talked to Mr. Rose about any of
this.”  Douglas, 16, the first black gymnast to win the Olympic
all-around title and a member of the gold-medal U.S. team,
stands to make $1 million to $3 million a year in endorsements,
according to Bob Dorfman, executive creative director at San
Francisco-based Baker Street Advertising. She already has an
endorsement agreement with  Kellogg Co. (K) , which put the gymnast on
the cover of its corn flakes box.  A message left at Kellogg’s media relations department
seeking comment on whether the company would be interested in a
“Fab Five” trademark license wasn’t immediately returned.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Scripps’ DMCA Takedown Demand Crashes NASA Mars Landing Video  E.W. Scripps Co. (SSP) , the Cincinnati-based media company, filed
a request with  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube video-sharing site that
caused footage of the Aug. 5 Mars landing to be removed, the
Mother Board technology website  reported .  The footage, which was posted on the National Aeronautics
and Space Administration’s YouTube channel and showed the
landing of NASA’s $2.6 billion rover vehicle Curiosity, was
removed under a takedown order authorized by the Digital
Millennium Copyright Act, according to Mother Board.  Scripps later acknowledged that the removal was a mistake,
Mother Board Reported.  In an e-mail sent to Mother Board, the publisher said that
“we’ve adjusted our workflow processes to remedy the situation
in future,” and that the video -- which was a public-domain
video posted on NASA’s own channel and documenting an event paid
for with U.S. taxpayer dollars -- had been put back online
again.  CBS Expands Copyright Claims Against ABC in ‘Glass House’ Suit  Even though a federal judge in  Los Angeles  told  CBS Corp. (CBS) 
in June that it was unlikely to win its copyright case related
to ABC’s “The Glass House” reality TV show, the network has
filed court papers expanding its copyright infringement claim.  In a July 30 court filing, CBS said that the ABC show is
based on a “blatant theft” of its copyrightable expression in
the CBS “Big Brother” program, duplicating “every key
aspect” of plot, themes, setting, pace, characters, sequence of
events and “other concrete elements.”  Among those elements CBS claims the Walt Disney Co.’s ABC
has copied are “an obligatory older player,” “an openly gay
player” and a “‘core of mixed-ethnicity, geographically
diverse twentysomethings.” Both shows blend “equal parts
attractive young men and women, and aggressive and passive-
aggressive contestants in the same way,” and both shows make
use of a “villain” who “purposely creates havoc and conflict
among other contestants,” according to the filing.  ABC had argued in its filings that there is “no secret
sauce” involved in the production of “Big Brother” and that
both programs are “generic staples of the reality show genre.”  The case is CBS v. ABC, 2:12-cv-40073-GAF-JEM, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  Indonesian Copyright Claim Targets TV Station That Aired Concert  Two Indonesian musicians filed a copyright infringement
report to police in Jakarta, saying their songs were used
without authorization in a concert in that country in April, the
Jakarta Post  reported .  Jockie Suryoprayogo, one of the two musicians filing suit,
told the Jakarta Post that to no avail he sent warning letters
to the alleged infringers -- including the television station
that aired the program -- and demanded an admission of
responsibility.  The concert was broadcast on Indonesia’s Metro TV, owned by
PT Media Televisi Indonesia, according to the Jakarta Post.  The alleged infringers may face as much 5 billion
Indonesian rupiah ($528,000) in fines and seven-year jail terms,
Jakarta Post reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 