-- Harder-Luck Foreclosures Grow as Funding for Help Wanes
-- B y   E m m a   F i d e l
-- 2012-08-07T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/harder-luck-foreclosures-grow-as-funding-for-help-wanes.html
Larrone Brown has been dodging
foreclosure since losing his job in December 2010. He has twice
been denied a mortgage modification and says he expects a
 foreclosure  notice any day.  Still, thanks to a counselor he calls “a godsend,” Brown
says “things are looking up.”  Brown, a 41-year-old mental health professional in
 Washington , D.C., is receiving free mortgage advice from a
nonprofit housing counseling agency where complicated, on-going
cases like his have become more and more common.  “At first it was new situations where people were just
getting into the foreclosure situation,” said Darren Snell,
Brown’s counselor at  Housing Counseling Services, Inc.  “Now,
most of the clients that we see have already been through the
wringer.”  With millions of homes still in the foreclosure pipeline,
mortgage counselors across the country say they are handling
increasingly complex cases for homeowners who are unemployed,
underwater, or redefaulting -- and sometimes, all three. Even as
borrowers’ problems become more intractable, federal support is
waning.  Counseling programs are funded largely through the  U.S.
Congress , which has allocated about $620 million to advise 
approximately 1.36 million homeowners through NeighborWorks
America since December 2007, according to a June 11  report .  Last November, Congress also appropriated $45 million for
housing counseling in fiscal year 2012 through the Department 
of Housing and Urban Development after slashing all counseling 
funding during April budget negotiations. HUD had  requested  
$88 million.  Veto Threat  The House passed a 2013 HUD appropriations bill in June
allocating $45 million to housing counseling, $10 million less
than HUD  requested . The bill is now stalled in the Senate, and
the White House has said President  Barack Obama  plans to  veto
the bill  if passed in its current form. Administration officials
are urging states to compensate for declining funds with money
from a recent court settlement with mortgage servicers.  Counselors, who act as neutral third parties between
homeowners and lenders, say their services will be needed as
long as unemployment remains high, scammers target struggling
homeowners and states frequently change their foreclosure
policies.  “The housing counseling community needs to work to restore
federal funding,” said David Berenbaum, chief program officer
for the National Community Reinvestment Coalition. “Housing
counseling organizations have had to downsize across the country
at a time when the demands on service are at an all-time high.”  Repeat Defaults  Counselors say they have noticed three trends in homeowners
seeking counseling in the past year: First, clients like Brown
have been stuck in the process longer through multiple defaults
and modifications. Second, first-time counselees are usually
facing foreclosure as a result of unemployment or, third, are
still current on their mortgages but are concerned about
defaulting.  Cy Richardson, vice president of housing and community
development for the  National Urban League , said “chronic”
unemployment is now driving foreclosures, and agencies are
helping homeowners “who have much harder-to-rectify cases.”  Seventy percent of the  Homeownership Preservation
Foundation ’s clients have been affected by unemployment or
underemployment, according to Josh Fuhrman, senior vice
president of government and community relations for HPF, a
Minneapolis-based agency that operates a national foreclosure
counseling hotline.  Unemployment or Crisis  “It’s not just a low-income problem,” Richardson said.
“We’re seeing folks who are middle- and upper-income as well,
where loss of employment has been the catalyst, or a family
crisis or some other emergency has triggered the problem.”  Due to community outreach and word of mouth, homeowners are
increasingly aware of counseling services and are beginning to
seek help earlier, according to Rita Godfrey, a counselor for
 NeighborWorks  of Pueblo in  Colorado .  “The fact that they’re current does not mean they’re not
struggling,” Fuhrman said. He estimated that 50 percent of the
foundation’s clients are current on their mortgages, compared
with 30 percent last year.  Counselors say desperate homeowners remain vulnerable to
scams and frauds. Credit and debit complaints, including
complaints about mortgage-related fraud, were the second most-
reported consumer complaint in 2011, according to a July 31
 study  by the  Consumer Federation of America  and the North
American Consumer Protection Investigators.  Services Free  Counselors repeatedly stress to clients that they shouldn’t
pay for counseling, since HUD-approved services are free.  “We have seen a lot of people come in and they’ve paid
other people $3,000, $4,000, $7,000,” said Raquel Avila, a
foreclosure counselor at  Home Preservation & Prevention CARES  in
 Long Beach ,  California .  HUD-approved counseling agencies offer one-on-one sessions
in person or over the phone, as well as foreclosure clinics and
workshops. While the number of counseling sessions a client
receives depends on his or her financial situation and lender,
counselors estimate that at least three hour-long sessions are
needed to resolve an average homeowner’s case.  “I can meet with them dozens of times, or there can be
others where I meet with them only once or twice and we’re able
to resolve the situation,” said Godfrey, who estimated that her
two-counselor agency assisted 380 homeowners last year.  Outcomes Improved  Counselors point to a number of studies that indicate
counseling’s effectiveness. A December 2011 Urban Institute
 report  conducted for NeighborWorks America found that while 9
percent of homeowners cure their serious delinquencies or
foreclosures after 12 months without counseling, that number
nearly doubles to 17 percent with counseling. Counseling lowers
redefault rates within the first nine months of a modification
by 70 percent, according to the report.  A May study commissioned by HUD and conducted by Abt
Associates, a consulting firm in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , found
that 84 percent of 539  homeowners  who received counseling
remained in their homes 18 months after beginning counseling.
About 56 percent were current on their mortgage payments and 28
percent were behind.  “It could be anything from self-curing to finding a loan
modification to treading water, but the reality is they’re still
in their home,” Fuhrman said.  Counseling sessions typically begin with counselors taking
a full inventory of a client’s mortgage documents, bank
statements and other relevant materials. After diagnosing the
cause of default, counselors create action plans and budgets
with clients, especially those who defaulted because they didn’t
maintain their personal finances.  Budgeting Help  Counselors might suggest that clients stop paying for  cable
television  or keep better track of how much they spend on
groceries, Godfrey said. They usually guide a client through
paperwork and may contact the servicer about a modification on
the client’s behalf.  The Urban Institute report, which sampled almost 335,000
loans, found that counseling lowered a monthly payment for a
modified loan by an average of $176, 7.8 percent lower than loan
modifications obtained without counseling.  When a client cannot stay in his or her house, a
counselor’s guidance and support can help borrowers make a
smooth transition to a smaller house or out of homeownership,
counselors said.  “Just by simply engaging us in the process, they will see
a lot more successes,” said Katherine Peoples-McGill, founder
and executive director of HPP CARES. “Sometimes it’s just
having a person in front of you to say, ‘Hey, this is not going
to work’.”  Return Client  Brown, who will soon start working in a group home for
disadvantaged teens, said his mortgage counselor’s support
“made me feel like I could breathe.” Brown is a returning
client at HCS, where he initially sought counseling in 2011 to
receive federal assistance through a  District of Columbia 
mortgage  program . After his mortgage funding and unemployment
both ran out, he talked to a real estate agent about a short
sale of his house.  It was a follow-up e-mail from Snell that encouraged him to
go back to HCS and apply for another modification.  “It’s not a guarantee,” Brown said about counseling,
“but I feel like I have a better chance.”  Because HUD-approved agencies don’t charge for their
services, they rely on HUD and private donors for funding. The
$55 million HUD requested from Congress for FY 2013 would
directly fund housing counseling for 185,000 families and
training for 4,800 counselors, according to HUD’s  proposal .  When Congress zeroed out housing counseling funds in 2011,
banking groups including the  Mortgage Bankers Association  pushed
for restored funding. William Killmer, the association’s senior
vice president of legislative and political affairs, wrote to
the Senate Committee on Appropriations supporting “the great
work facilitated by this program.”  Value Unquestioned  “I do feel we’re at a point now where it is no longer a
question, the value of the nonprofit space in providing these
services,” Richardson said.  Even so, counselors predict a bleak outlook for homeowners
in the coming years and say client numbers will remain
relatively static until at least 2014.  As many as 3.6 million mortgages are expected to enter
foreclosure, short sale or distress through 2013, according to a
Bloomberg Government study published July 13.  HPF, whose HOPE Hotline has received an average of 1.3
million calls a year since 2007, estimates it will continue
receiving at least 1 million calls per year, according to
Fuhrman.  “The role of housing counselors is only going to grow,”
Berenbaum said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Fidel in Washington at 
 efidel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  