-- Argentina’s Edenor Said to Negotiate Asset Sales
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2012-08-07T19:44:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/argentina-s-edenor-said-to-negotiate-asset-sales.html
Empresa Distribuidora y
Comercializadora Norte (EDN)  SA,  Argentina ’s biggest power distributor
known as Edenor, is negotiating the sale of assets to a group
led by a former company executive as it seeks funds for debt
payments, said a person with direct knowledge of the sale.  Salta Inversiones Electricas SA, created by Edenor’s former
chief financial officer Rogelio Pagano and Venezuelan
businessman Miguel Mendoza, is a prospective buyer of Empresa
Distribuidora de Energia Norte SA and Empresa Distribuidora de
Electricidad de La Rioja SA, or Edelar, said the person, who
asked not to be named because talks are private.  Edenor, owned by  Pampa Energia SA (PAMP) , is attempting to sell
assets for  capital spending  and to avoid a debt default after a
decade-old freeze on utility rates and inflation that economists
estimate at 24 percent caused  Standard & Poor’s  to cut its
rating to CCC in June. The company, which must make interest
payments in October, may make a decision on the sale in the
coming days, the person said.  The company had a net  loss  of 89.4 million pesos ($20.6
million) in the first quarter compared with a profit of 252
million pesos a year ago. Edenor bonds that mature in 2022 have
dropped 43.1 cents on the dollar, to 37.15 cents this year,
sending the yield to a 29.4 percent. Borrowing costs for Latin
American utilities fell 20 basis points to 5.88 percent over the
same period, according to Credit Suisse AG’s LABI index.  Extension Sought  Edenor sold Empresa Distribuidora San Luis SA for $27
million to Rovella Carranza in September and Empresa
Distribuidora de Electricidad de Salta SA to Salta Inversiones
Electricas, known as Siesa, in April.  Andes Energia, which has an option to buy 78 percent of
Edelar for $20.2 million, last month sought a second extension
of the option period. Edenor’s board is scheduled to discuss the
extension request in a meeting next week. Siesa may buy Edelar
if the Andes arrangement fails, the person said.  Pagano left Edenor in April for “personal reasons,” the
company said in statement to the stock exchange. Mendoza is a
former  Ashmore Group Plc (ASHM)  executive. Nobody at Siesa was
available to comment, an assistant said by phone. Edenor
spokesman Alberto Lippi declined to comment.  Price Caps  President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, who was re-
elected to a second four-year term last year, has maintained
electricity price caps first introduced during the country’s
2002 financial crisis and continued by her late husband and
predecessor,  Nestor Kirchner . The rates freeze prompted Paris-
based Electricite de France SA to agree in 2005 to sell Edenor
to a Buenos Aires-based fund controlled by Argentine businessman
Marcelo Mindlin, which later acquired electricity transmitter
Transener and it was renamed as Pampa Energia SA.  On July 12, the government appointed an administrator at
Empresa Distribuidora de Energia Sur SA, or Edesur, after the
company missed a 150 million-peso payment to power wholesaler
Cammesa. The price caps drove gas pipeline company
 Transportadora de Gas del Norte SA  to halt payments on $22.1
million of debt in 2008 and natural gas distributor  Metrogas SA (METR) 
to file for  bankruptcy protection  in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in  Buenos Aires  at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  