-- Marvin Hamlisch, Decorated Film, Theater Composer, Dies at 68
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-08-07T14:14:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/marvin-hamlisch-decorated-film-theater-composer-dies-at-68.html
Marvin Hamlisch, the classically
trained pianist who composed the music for shows including “A
Chorus Line” and movies including “The Way We Were,” winning
show business’s most sought-after awards by the armloads, has
died. He was 68.  Hamlisch died yesterday in  Los Angeles  after a brief
illness, the  Associated Press  reported, citing a family
spokesman, Jason Lee.  The recipient of three Academy Awards, four Grammys, four
Emmys, two Golden Globes and one Tony, Hamlisch provided the
music for Barbra Streisand’s 1994 concert tour, the Neil Simon
show “The Goodbye Girl” and more than 40 movies that also
included “Sophie’s Choice,” “Ordinary People,” and  Woody
Allen ’s “Bananas.”  Only Hamlisch and  Richard Rodgers , the American composer
who died in 1979, won at least one Oscar, Emmy, Grammy, Tony and
a Pulitzer Prize. Hamlisch shared in the 1976 Pulitzer Prize for
Drama for “A Chorus Line”; Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein II
shared a piece of the 1950 award for “South Pacific.”  “From the time I could play the piano, I remember trying
to write tunes,” Hamlisch wrote in “The Way I Was,” his  1992
memoir , written with Gerald Gardner. “They were in my head, and
I would just sit down and start noodling. Next thing I knew, I
had written a melody.”  Conducting Career  Known for his tireless drive, Hamlisch was principal pops
conductor for symphony orchestras in Pittsburgh,  Milwaukee ,
 Dallas ,  Seattle , San Diego and  Pasadena ,  California , and
previously spent 11 years as pops conductor of the National
Symphony Orchestra in  Washington . According to his  website , he
was working on a new musical, “Gotta Dance” and planning to
write the music for a Steven Soderbergh film about Liberace,
starring  Michael Douglas  and  Matt Damon .  In 2007, he joined  Rod Stewart  and Patti LaBelle among the
performers in New York City at the 60th birthday party of
 Stephen Schwarzman , the founder of Blackstone Group LP, an event
that fueled the movement in Congress to raise taxes on
executives at private-equity and venture-capital firms.  In an interview with the New York Times in 1975, a year
after winning three Academy Awards for his contributions to
“The Sting” (1973) and “The Way We Were” (1973), Hamlisch
discussed the challenges of writing music for film.  “Let’s say music is needed for only 43 seconds of film,”
he said. “You have to score it so it is an entity, so it won’t
bother anyone when it ends so quickly. Or if a song runs 2
minutes and 45 seconds, but the titles run a minute longer, you
have to arrange that song so it doesn’t get repetitious. It
means being like a tailor with a piece of cloth, lengthening it
a bit here, taking a tuck there, and adding a button when
needed.”  Austrian Parents  Marvin Frederick Hamlisch was born on June 2, 1944, in  New
York  City, the second of two children born to musically inclined
immigrants from Vienna, Max Hamlisch and the former Lilly
Schachter. As Hamlisch told it in his memoir, his father sensed
in the mid-1930s that it was time for Jews to leave  Europe  and
arranged for him and his wife to escape  Austria  by way of
Liechtenstein and Switzerland, arriving in the U.S. in 1937.  A professional accordionist, Hamlisch’s father saw musical
promise in his only son and sent him to the Juilliard School in
Manhattan shortly before he turned 7 for piano training.  Hamlisch said he realized early on, after one year at
Juilliard, that he wasn’t cut out to be a concert pianist, not
least because he felt sick to his stomach before every
performance.  ‘Sunshine, Lollipops’  For junior high school, Hamlisch attended Professional
Children’s School, where his classmates included  Christopher
Walken  and Leslie Uggams and the boyfriend of a young Liza
Minnelli, for whom Hamlisch wrote some songs.  With Marvin Liebling, who would become his brother-in-law,
he wrote his first hit, “Sunshine, Lollipops and Rainbows,”
for Lesley Gore. Hamlisch and Liebling followed with a second
hit for Gore, “California Nights.”  Hamlisch was hired by Buster Davis to be assistant vocal
arranger and rehearsal pianist for “Funny Girl,” which
introduced Hamlisch to Streisand. Playing piano at a private
party held by producer Sam Spiegel, Hamlisch landed the job of
scoring “ The Swimmer ” (1968), starring Burt Lancaster. He then
scored Allen’s “Take the Money and Run” (1969).  With lyricist Johnny Mercer, he won his first Golden Globe
and was nominated for an Oscar for the original song “Life Is
What You Make It,” from “Kotch” (1971).  Along the way, he found time to earn a bachelor of arts
degree from Queens College in New York.  Oscars Feat  Sweeping  the music categories at the 46th Academy Awards in
1974 made Hamlisch, at 29, the first person to walk away with
three Oscars in one night. He won for best original dramatic
score for “The Way We Were,” best scoring for the ragtime
accompaniment of “The Sting” and best song for the title
number of “The Way We Were,” with lyrics by Alan and Marilyn
Bergman and performed by Streisand, the movie’s co-star.  Arriving at the microphone for his third acceptance speech
of the night, Hamlisch began: “I think we can talk to each
other as friends.”  Hamlisch’s roll continued with “ A Chorus Line ,” the
Broadway smash that ran for 6,137 performances from 1975 to
1990. Hired by director Michael Bennett, scoring the lyrics of
Edward Kleban, he composed songs including “What I Did for
Love” and “One (Singular Sensation).” In addition to the 1976
Pulitzer, the show won nine Tony Awards, including one for the
Hamlisch and Kleban score.  Collaborative Partner  Back in Hollywood, Hamlisch took on the music for the James
Bond film “The Spy Who Loved Me” and, with lyricist Carole
Bayer Sager, came up with “Nobody Does It Better,” the Carly
Simon hit that was nominated for the Academy Award for best
song.  Hamlisch and Sager became a couple while continuing as
collaborators, their relationship inspiring  Neil Simon  to write
“They’re Playing Our Song,” which ran on Broadway from 1979 to
1981.  Two professional flops followed. Poor reviews and weak
attendance spelled an early end to the 1983-1984 London bow of
“Jean Seberg,” a musical based on the American actress and
political lightning rod who took her own life at 40. “Smile,”
a Broadway musical spoofing beauty pageants, lasted just 41
performances in 1986-1987.  In 1989, Hamlisch married Terre Blair, a television
interviewer. In a  1992 interview  with People magazine, he
credited her with “bringing out all the good things in me. I
found myself quieting down, becoming more understanding of what
life means.”  To the Tony, Grammys and Oscars he won in the 1970s,
Hamlisch added his two Emmys in 1995 for “ Barbra Streisand : The
Concert,” another in 1999 for “AFI’s 100 Years, 100 Movies”
and a fourth in 2001 for his musical direction of Streisand’s
“Timeless: Live in Concert.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  