-- Ascent Solar Sales Shift to Consumers, IPhones, CEO Says
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-08-07T21:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/ascent-solar-sales-shift-to-consumer-products-ceo-says.html
Ascent Solar Technologies Inc. (ASTI) 
expects consumer electronics to drive sales of its thin-film
solar products, Chief Executive Officer Victor Lee said.  About 70 to 80 percent of sales will come from consumer
electronics “going forward,” he said today, such as the solar-
powered charging case for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone the Thornton,
Colorado-based company announced in June.  The company is shifting its focus away from the rooftop
solar market, where prices for standard photovoltaic panels
plunged 37 percent in the past year, making its products less
competitive.  Rooftop solar panels have “dirt cheap average sale
prices,” Lee said in a telephone interview.  “We don’t want to be in that,” Lee said. “Our strategy
is to focus on high margin, high premium” applications.  Ascent’s solar panels are thinner and lighter than panels
made from polysilicon, and they are flexible, which makes them
well-suited for military uses, as well as backpacks, tents and
other consumer products. They are also more expensive than
silicon panels, Lee said, without providing a price.  “At the moment, given our capacity, our costs are still
higher than the industry average,” Lee said. “That’s precisely
the reason we don’t want to compete in that area.”  ‘Too Early’  The company is developing a line of consumer devices,
focused initially on solar-charging cases for Apple and  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  mobile phones. Ascent’s market value has more
than doubled since it announced its iPhone case, to about $52
million. Lee wouldn’t discuss future products.  The shift to consumer products “doesn’t seem to be big
enough to move the needle on earnings,” Robert Stone, an
analyst for Cowen & Co LLC in  Boston , said in an interview
today. “It’s too early to tell.”  Ascent isn’t exiting the rooftop market completely. It said
yesterday it would provide panels for a power system that
Foxconn Technology Group is building at its plant in  Zhengzhou ,
 China . Foxconn manufactures Apple’s iPhones and iPads. Lee
wouldn’t say whether the relationship may extend to including
Ascent’s solar products in electronic devices produced by
Foxconn.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  