-- Asian Buyers' Soybean Imports Seen Surging by Oil World
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-08-07T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/asian-buyers-soybean-imports-seen-surging-by-oil-world.html
Imports of soybeans and soybean meal
have surged from some of Asia’s largest buyers, signaling demand
hasn’t slowed as prices rallied, Oil World said.  China ,  Japan ,  South Korea  and  Thailand  imported 17.401
million metric tons of soybeans from April to June, 21 percent
more than in the same period a year earlier, the Hamburg-based
researcher said today in an e-mailed report. Imports of soybean
meal, used in livestock feed, jumped 7.7 percent in the three-
month period, to 1.604 million tons.  “The latest import statistics for June do not yet reveal
any signs of rationing,” Oil World said. “It is interesting to
see that the four Asian countries sharply raised imports of
soybeans and soya meal from Brazil in April/June. But this
cannot be sustained. In fact, we expect this trend to be
reversed, due to a lack of South American supplies.”  Global benchmark soybean prices have surged 20 percent in
the past year on the Chicago Board of Trade after drought cut
production in  South America  last year while dry weather in the
U.S. is threatening currently developing crops. The U.S. is the
world’s largest soybean exporter, followed by Brazil, and China
is the world’s biggest consumer.  China, Japan, South Korea and Thailand purchased 11.533
million tons of soybeans from Brazil from April to June,
representing two-thirds of their total imports, while most of
the remainder came from the U.S. and Argentina, Oil World said.
During the same time period a year earlier, Brazil’s soybean
shipments to the four countries were 8.014 million tons,
according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  