-- AT&T Says 20,000 Employees Begin Strike in U.S. East, West
-- B y   J a m e s   C a l l a n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i
-- 2012-08-07T20:21:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/at-t-says-20-000-employees-begin-strike-in-u-s-east-west.html
AT&T Inc. (T) , the largest U.S phone
company, said more than 20,000 land-line employees represented
by the  Communications Workers of America  have begun a strike on
the East and West coasts.  The West contract covers more than 17,000 employees in
California and Nevada, while the East contract covers more than
3,000 in Connecticut, AT&T said today in a statement.  AT&T and its unions have clashed over everything from
guaranteed weekend days off to wellness and health-care costs,
though other factions represented by the CWA and the
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers have agreed to
new contracts with the Dallas-based phone company.  “A strike is not in anyone’s best interest, and it’s
unfortunate local union leaders in the West and East regions
chose to take this action,” the company said in the statement.  Separately, AT&T reached a tentative agreement with the CWA
in contract negotiations for more than 22,000 land-line
employees in the southeastern U.S. In total, AT&T has completed
agreements covering almost 48,000 land-line employees.  The company forged a deal with workers in  Alabama , Florida,
Georgia,  Kentucky , Louisiana,  Mississippi ,  North Carolina ,  South
Carolina  and  Tennessee , according to the carrier. The contracts
will be submitted to the CWA’s membership for a ratification
vote, AT&T said.  That new three-year agreement, which replaces a contract
that was set to expire on Aug. 9, includes pay increases in each
year and “modest” pension increases, AT&T said. The company
reached an accord with Midwest employees last month.  ‘Unfair’ Practices  Current strikes on the East and West coasts are intended to
dispute labor practices and aren’t attempts to negotiate wages
or pensions, said  Candice Johnson , a CWA spokeswoman.  “These strikes are centered around unfair labor practices,
denying workers the right to engage in protected activity, such
as union activity,” Johnson said in a telephone interview
today.  East and West coast CWA units are looking for different
things, Libby Sayre, a union representative, said.  On the West coast, the union took issue after AT&T altered
work schedules for more than 3,000 technicians without
bargaining, Sayre said. AT&T has also banned employees from
wearing stickers and buttons related to contract requests or any
other issue, she said.  ‘Unilateral Changes’  On the East coast, the carrier has made “unilateral
changes” to areas such as health care, Bill Henderson,
president of CWA’s Local 1298 Connecticut unit, said.  “AT&T is trying to leverage that we’re in a bad economy
and people need their jobs,” he said in a telephone interview.  AT&T “remains ready to negotiate,” and isn’t proposing
any wage or benefit reductions,  Marty Richter , an AT&T
spokesman, said.  The average AT&T network technician in the current contract
negotiations earns $133,000, comprising $90,000 in wages and
$43,000 in benefits, he said. The average compensation for a
call-center representative is $107,000, comprising $67,000 in
pay and $40,000 in benefits, Richter said.  “Our goal throughout these negotiations has been to
preserve high-quality middle class careers with wages and
health-care benefits that are among the best in the country,”
Richter said via e-mail today.  Sayre described the salary examples Richter provided as
“extravagant” and an attempt to present AT&T employees as
“overpaid.” She didn’t offer alternative figures.  AT&T and competitors such as  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) 
regularly bargain with unions over new contracts as rising
network investment costs weigh on profit margins. More than half
of AT&T’s employees are represented by the CWA, the IBEW or
other unions, according to the company’s  annual report .  AT&T shares fell less than 1 percent to $37.44 at the close
in  New York . The stock has climbed 24 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Callan in New York at 
 jcallan2@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Chaykowski in New York at 
 kchaykowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  