-- Aussie Weakens From 4-Month High Versus U.S. Dollar After RBA
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2012-08-07T21:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/aussie-weakens-from-4-month-high-versus-u-s-dollar-after-rba.html
The Australian dollar declined
against its U.S. peer after reaching the strongest in more than
four months as the  Reserve Bank  of Australia held its key
interest rate at the highest level among developed nations.  The Aussie dropped after policy makers suggested the
currency may be too strong even as economic growth was on
target. New Zealand’s dollar led decliners against the
greenback, falling for the first time in four days, after Prime
Minister John Key signaled the onus is on the nation’s central
bank and private investors to aid economic growth as he seeks to
eliminate a  budget deficit  while funding post-earthquake
reconstruction.  “The RBA did take some exception to the strong value of
the Aussie, so that has injected a little bit of uncertainty
into the Aussie going forward,”  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst
in Washington at Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of
 Western Union Co. (WU) , said in a telephone interview. “That’s
caused investors to trade a little bit more carefully and take
the opportunity of its rise to these multimonth highs as an
excuse to book some profit.”  Australia’s dollar fell 0.1 percent to $1.0554 yesterday in
New York after touching $1.0604, the highest since March 20. The
Aussie gained 0.3 percent to 82.96 yen.  New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, slipped 0.5
percent against its U.S. peer to 81.60 cents. The kiwi was
little changed at 64.14 yen.  ‘Sustainable Pace’  Australia’s central bank kept its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at 3.5 percent yesterday, saying current policy
settings were “appropriate.” It lowered the rate by 1.25
percentage points from November to June. Policy makers suggested
that the economic slowdown in its biggest trading partner,
China, would not be worse than forecast, while indicating the
Aussie was too strong.  “China’s growth has moderated to a more sustainable pace,
but does not appear to be slowing further,” RBA Governor  Glenn
Stevens  said. “The  exchange rate , however, has remained high,
despite the observed decline in the terms of trade and the
weaker global outlook.”  A corrective pullback in the Aussie is likely at these
levels, as the area from $1.0639 to $1.0695 includes its mid-
March peak versus the greenback,  Niall O’Connor , a New York-
based technical analyst at JPMorgan, wrote in a note to clients
yesterday.  If the Aussie depreciates to the $1.0400 to $1.4035 area,
then down to $1.0345, its short-term “bullish spin” would
diminish, O’Connor wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  