-- Aussie Near Four-Month High on Domestic Economy Optimism
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-08-08T06:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/aussie-near-4-month-high-before-home-loans-jobs-reports.html
Australia’s dollar was 0.6 percent
from its highest level in more than four months after data
showed home-loan approvals rose in June by the most this year,
adding to signs of improvement in the economy.  New Zealand’s so-called kiwi dollar declined against all of
its major peers for a second day after Prime Minister John Key
said there may be scope for the central bank to lower borrowing
costs. Demand for both South Pacific nations’ currencies was
tempered before data that may show weakness in German industrial
production and Chinese retail sales, adding to concern the
global economy is slowing.  “The domestic story is positive” in Australia, said  Sean Callow , a senior currency strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in
Sydney. “There are certainly reasons to be concerned about the
global situation. But in general right now, it doesn’t seem to
be a very clever time to be trying to short the Aussie dollar.”
A short position is a bet an asset may decline.  The Australian dollar was at $1.0545 as of 4:10 p.m. in
Sydney from $1.0554 yesterday, when it reached $1.0604, the
strongest since March 20. It slid 0.4 percent to 82.68 yen. The
kiwi lost 0.4 percent to 81.25 U.S. cents. It declined 0.7
percent to 63.72 yen.  Australian Economy  The number of  loans  granted to build or buy houses and
apartments in  Australia  climbed 1.3 percent in June after a
revised 0.9 percent drop in the the previous month, the Bureau
of Statistics said today. That’s the biggest gain since December
and compares with economist forecasts for a 2 percent advance.  Figures tomorrow may show the number of  people employed 
increased by 10,000 last month after dropping 27,000 in June,
according to forecasts in a separate poll. The jobless rate
probably climbed to 5.3 percent from 5.2 percent.  The Aussie has advanced 5.7 percent in the past three
months, the best performance among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The kiwi was the second-biggest gainer, rising 4.5 percent.  Ten-year government note yields in Australia rose seven
basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 3.33 percent.  New
Zealand ’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to receive
floating rates, lost five basis points to 2.84 percent.  The  New Zealand dollar  weakened after Prime Minister Key
signaled yesterday that the onus is on the nation’s central bank
and private investors to aid economic growth as he seeks to
eliminate a  budget deficit .  “The government’s preferred position is not to be
stimulatory,” he said in an interview in Christchurch. “We
want to get back to surplus.”  German  industrial production  may have fallen 0.8 percent in
June after rising 1.6 percent in the previous month, according
to another survey before figures due today. A report tomorrow
may show  retail sales  growth in  China  decelerated to 13.5
percent in July from a year earlier from 13.7 percent in June.
That would be the slowest pace since February last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  