-- Australia’s Pearson Wins 100 Meter Hurdles in Photo Finish
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-08-07T22:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/australia-s-pearson-wins-100-meter-hurdles-in-photo-finish.html
Australia ’s Sally Pearson won the
women’s 100-meter hurdles in an Olympic-record time of 12.35
seconds, beating defending champion Dawn Harper of the U.S. in a
photo finish.  Pearson, 25, and Harper, 28, waited several seconds before
a screen in London’s rain-swept Olympic Stadium showed the
Australian was first by 0.02 seconds. Kellie Wells, another
American, took the bronze medal.  “I didn’t realize how close Dawn was until the end,”
Pearson said. “Relief was the first thing I felt, then shock. I
really wanted this.”  It’s the first track and field gold medal for Australia at
the London Games.  Pearson, who won the silver medal behind Harper at the 2008
Beijing Games, started slowly before pulling ahead near the end.
The two athletes embraced after the result was confirmed.  “I’m happy to win silver,” Harper said. “There was so
much pressure on me.”  Also today,  Algeria ’s Taoufik Makhloufi won the men’s
1,500-meter final by pulling away from the rest of the field
with about 200 meters left.  He won in a time of 3 minutes, 34.08 seconds. Leonel
Manzano of the U.S. took silver and  Morocco ’s Abdalaati Iguider
claimed bronze.  High Jump  Russian Ivan Ukhov improved his personal best to win the
men’s high jump by clearing 2.38 meters. Erik Kynard of the U.S.
got the silver medal. Britain’s Robbie Grabarz, Mutaz Essa
Barshim of Qatar and Derek Drouin of  Canada  shared the bronze
medal.  Ukhov, 26, said he prevailed even after losing focus when
he changed into a tracksuit between jumps and lost the vest he
was competing in. He said he had to borrow one from another
jumper.  The world champion, Jesse Williams of the U.S., lay face
down on the track after tying for ninth.  “I couldn’t believe it and I still can’t,” Williams said.
“I just wasn’t using my body’s power.”  Germany ’s Robert Harting won the discus with a throw of
68.27 meters to extend his two-year unbeaten run.  Harting, 27, came from behind to beat Ehsan Hadadi of  Iran .
Estonia’s Gerd Kanter, the 2008 Olympic champion, took bronze.  To celebrate his victory, the 6-foot-7 (2.01-meter) Harting
took off his vest, draped himself in a German flag and jumped
over a couple of hurdles.  200-Meter Semis  The U.S.’s Sanya Richards-Ross, who won the 400-meter gold
medal two days ago, was fastest in qualifying for the 200-meter
final with a time of 22.30 seconds.  Next quickest was the U.S.’s Allyson Felix, a three-time
world champion, followed by two Jamaicans -- defending champion
Veronica Campbell-Brown and  London  100-meter champion Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce.  Earlier today,  China ’s Liu Xiang stumbled and fell at the
first hurdle in his 110-meter heat. Aries Merritt of the U.S.
ran 13.07, the fastest opening-heat time in history, to cruise
into the semifinals.  Liu’s second straight Olympic disappointment appeared to be
because of a recurring Achilles tendon injury, China track team
leader Feng Shuyong told reporters.  The 100-meter champion, Usain Bolt of  Jamaica , eased into
tomorrow’s 200-meter semifinals. Bolt is the defending champion
at 200 meters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  