-- RBA Holds Rate as Household Spending, Currency Surge
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-08-07T06:03:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/australia-holds-key-rate-as-household-spending-currency-surge.html
Australia ’s central bank kept
 interest rates  unchanged at a developed-world high, citing a
domestic expansion that’s weathering a global slowdown. The
local currency touched the strongest in 4 1/2 months.  Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board left the overnight
cash-rate target at a 2 1/2-year low of 3.5 percent for a second
month, the  Reserve Bank  of Australia said in a statement today
in Sydney. Policy makers lowered rates by 1.25 percentage points
from November to June, leaving borrowing costs “a little below
their medium-term averages,” Stevens said today.  “While it is too soon to see the full impact of those
changes, dwelling prices have firmed a little over the past
couple of months, and business credit has over the past six
months recorded its strongest growth for several years,” he
said. “The exchange rate, however, has remained high, despite
the observed decline in the terms of trade and the weaker global
outlook.”  The Australian dollar has risen 8.6 percent since the RBA’s
last rate reduction on June 5, extending gains that have helped
keep  core inflation  at the lower end of the central bank’s 2
percent to 3 percent target. While  Europe ’s fiscal crisis is
weighing on global growth and Chinese demand for Australian
commodities, Stevens’s 75 basis points of cuts in May and June
helped boost retail sales and housing in an economy driven by
resource investment.  ‘Prudent Strategy’  “Unless the volatile situation in Europe deteriorates
further, the most prudent strategy for coming months is to hold
tight and gauge the impact of earlier monetary stimulus on the
domestic economy,” said Katrina Ell, an economist at Moody’s
Analytics in Sydney.  The Australian dollar touched $1.0603 after the statement,
the highest level since March 20. It traded at $1.0578 as of
3:39 p.m. in Sydney.  Policy makers in Australia’s biggest trading partner,
 China , lowered rates in June and July, to help protect their
economy from Europe’s turmoil.  “China’s growth has moderated to a more sustainable pace,
but does not appear to be slowing further,” Stevens said today.
“Conditions in other parts of  Asia  have recovered from the
effects of last year’s natural disasters, though the ongoing
trend is unclear and could be dampened by the effects of slower
growth outside the region. Growth in the  United States 
continues, but at only a modest pace.”  Inflation Pressure  In Australia, a gauge of annual  inflation  by TD Securities
Inc. and the Melbourne Institute released this week showed
consumer prices rose at the slowest pace in three years.  “The outlook for inflation is unchanged: it is expected to
be consistent with the target over the next one to two years,”
Stevens said. “Maintaining low inflation over the longer term
will, however, require growth in domestic costs to continue
their recent moderation as the effects of the earlier  exchange
rate  appreciation wane.”  Recent reports have shown stronger  consumer spending  in
Australia, fueled by A$2 billion ($2.1 billion) in government
carbon rebates and benefit checks paid out since May, as well as
four rate cuts since November.  Retail sales  in June matched the
biggest advance since April 2011.  “In Australia, most indicators suggest growth close to
trend overall,” Stevens said today. “Labor market data show
moderate employment growth, even with job shedding in some
industries, and the rate of unemployment has thus far remained
low.”  Sri Lankan Rates  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region today,  Sri Lanka  left
rates unchanged for a fourth straight month, seeking to damp a
surge in prices while supporting economic growth as exports
tumble.  Asian stocks rose to a three-month high today, with the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index adding 0.6 percent to 119.79 as of 2:38
p.m. in  Tokyo .  Later today in the U.S., the U.S. Treasury Department is
scheduled to sell $72 billion of three-,  10- and 30-year bonds
in auctions over three days, the first sales since the  Federal
Reserve  said Aug. 1 it will ease policy further if necessary to
boost a weakening expansion.  In Europe, a report may show  Italy ’s economy contracted for
a third quarter from a year earlier in the three months ended
June 30, according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists.
Italian industrial output may also have declined, another survey
showed.  German factory orders fell in June from the previous month,
a survey of economists showed. U.K. manufacturing production
probably fell 4.3 percent in June from the previous month and
industrial output probably declined 3.5 percent, other surveys
showed.  Mining Boom  Australia, even after the May and June rate cuts, has the
highest borrowing costs among major developed nations as Stevens
seeks to manage a boom in  iron ore , coal and natural gas that is
bringing investment projects the government estimates to be
worth A$500 billion. Reflecting the resource boom, Australia’s
dollar has almost doubled in the past decade against the U.S.
currency, the biggest advance among more than 150 currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  The so-called Aussie’s strength is hurting non-resource
industries. Private reports last week showed a  manufacturing 
gauge declined in July to the lowest level in three years, and
the services industry shrank for a sixth straight month.  A key risk to the global economy remains Europe, and
Italy’s Prime Minister  Mario Monti  warned in an interview
published this week of a potential breakup without greater
urgency in efforts to lower government borrowing costs.  Monti, in an interview with  Germany ’s Der Spiegel magazine
published Aug. 5, said that disagreements within the 17-nation
euro area are detracting from the policy response to the debt
crisis and undermining the future of the European Union.  “The most significant area of weakness continues to be
Europe, where economic activity has been contracting and policy
makers confront the very difficult task of seeking to put both
bank and sovereign balance sheets onto a sound footing, while
promoting conditions for improved long-term growth,” Stevens
said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  