-- Barrick Gold Studies Acquiring Assets as It Reviews Costly Mines
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-08-07T10:24:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/barrick-gold-studies-acquiring-assets-as-it-reviews-costly-mines.html
Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s
biggest gold producer, is studying buying new mines as it
completes a review to reduce costs at existing assets.  “Perhaps there’s more M&A opportunities today than there
were a year ago and as a company we’re looking at those assets
on a daily basis,”  Mike Feehan, regional president of the
Toronto-based company’s  Australia  and Pacific operations said
today at the Diggers & Dealers mining conference in Kalgoorlie,
Australia. “If we could find a few million ounces of gold
deposit that’s probably pretty good.”  Barrick Chief Executive Officer Jamie Sokalsky is revising
costs and reviewing the company’s other development projects
after taking over last month from Aaron Regent, who was fired.
After 11 straight years of gains which have seen gold rise more
than fivefold, the price of the precious metal is up just 3.1
percent this year, giving producers less room for maneuver and
pushing them to focus on returns instead of output.  Demand for gold will be driven by central bank purchases
for the metal as a store of value, as well as rising jewelry
demand in China and  India , Feehan said, declining to offer his
outlook on price. Gold for immediate delivery gained 0.3 percent
to $1,614.50 an ounce at 5:18 p.m. Perth time. It may gain to
$1,800 by the first quarter of next year, according to the
median of 18 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Barrick plans to spend 20 percent of this year’s $450
million to $490 million exploration budget for projects in
Australia and  Papua New Guinea , he said. It spent $90 million in
the Australia Pacific region last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Barrick reaffirmed its gold production forecast for this
year of 7.3 million to 7.8 million ounces in a statement today.
Copper production will be 460 million to 500 million pounds. The
Lumwana copper mine in  Zambia , which it acquired in July last
year, will improve production in 2013, with an expected output
of around 250 million ounces, it said today.  The company reiterated its forecast for 2012 gold cash
costs of $550 to $575 per ounce, having increased it earlier
this year from $520 to $560.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  