-- Bernanke Says Financial Education Boosts Economy
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-08-07T20:25:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/bernanke-says-financial-education-boosts-eonomy.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said financial education and planning boost the
economy, and students who learn those skills are likely to save
more later in life and better weather market turbulence.  “Financial education supports not only individual well-
being, but also the economic health of our nation,” Bernanke
said today in remarks prepared for a town hall meeting with
teachers at the Fed in  Washington . “Consumers who can make
informed decisions about financial products and services not
only serve their own best interests, but, collectively, they
also help promote broader economic stability.”  Financial education “can play a key role” in promoting
financial planning such as budgeting and saving for emergencies
and retirement, which help households live better and be better
positioned to handle financial shocks, said Bernanke, a former
Princeton University professor whose wife, Anna, is a teacher.  Responding to questions from teachers, Bernanke said the
Fed has been keeping  interest rates  near zero to support the
U.S. economic recovery.  “They are low for a good reason, which is that our economy
is still in a fragile recovery,” he said. The Fed is trying
“to restore more normal levels of employment and growth.”  In his written remarks, Bernanke didn’t expand on the Fed’s
Aug. 1 statement that it will increase stimulus if necessary to
boost growth and cut a  jobless rate  stuck above 8 percent since
February 2009, nor did he address the outlook for monetary
policy or the economy. The 58-year-old Fed chief spoke to
teachers at the Fed and by video link to those gathered at
regional reserve banks.  Economic Recovery  Students today face a brighter future than their parents,
Bernanke said in the question period. The U.S. has been a leader
in technology, and rising productivity has been the key to
boosting  living standards  over time, he said.  In addition, a “very healthy immigration rate” and a
“healthy fertility rate” are giving the U.S. more favorable
“demographics” than other industrialized countries, Bernanke
said.  “There are certainly some very important challenges”
including “fiscal challenges” and education, the Fed chairman
said.  “In the near term, of course, kids coming out of high
school or college right now are not facing a particularly good
job market,” he said.  European Crisis  Bernanke also said the  European debt crisis  was resulting
in the region having a “much weaker economy” that is hurting
global growth. “This is one of the factors that’s slowing the
economic recovery,” he said.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said Aug. 1 that it
“will provide additional accommodation as needed to promote a
stronger economic recovery and sustained improvement in labor
market conditions” after the world’s largest economy has
“decelerated somewhat,” according to the statement. The Fed
also will continue swapping $667 billion of short-term debt with
longer-term securities, an action dubbed Operation Twist.  Growth cooled to a 1.5 percent annual pace in the second
quarter. Policy makers next meet Sept. 12-13 in Washington.  The  U.S. economy  generated more jobs than forecast in July,
easing concern the three-year expansion is faltering, even as
the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly rose to a five-month high of
8.3 percent. The payrolls increase of 163,000 followed a revised
64,000 gain in June, the Labor Department said Aug. 3.  U.S. Banks  U.S. banks are relaxing their terms on credit cards and
lending for autos and commercial real estate, according to the
Fed. Banks report “having eased their lending standards across
most loan types over the past three months,” the Fed said
yesterday in its quarterly survey of senior loan officers.  Banks in the U.S. are lending the most since the recession
ended in June 2009, supporting growth dragged down by
unemployment. Borrowing by consumers and businesses rose in the
week ended July 25 to  $7.1 trillion , within 2.9 percent of its
October 2008 peak, according to Fed data.  Bernanke said July 24 that early childhood education is
“crucial” and that effective schooling supports the economy by
reducing poverty and boosting wages. Educational attainment is
“a key source of economic growth and rising incomes” in many
countries, Bernanke said by video to the Children’s Defense Fund
national conference in Cincinnati.  Bernanke said yesterday that economic indicators may fail
to measure the suffering of individuals. While  consumer
spending , disposable income and household net worth have
rebounded, “individuals and households continue to struggle
with difficult economic and financial conditions,” Bernanke
said at a conference in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at ‘310 or
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  