-- Best Buy Best Option Seen in Founder’s Premium: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-08-07T21:02:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/best-buy-best-option-seen-in-founder-s-premium-real-m-a.html
Best Buy Co. (BBY)  founder Richard Schulze
may be offering the best option for shareholders, even as
traders question his ability to finance the fourth-largest U.S.
retail takeover in history.  Schulze, who remains the electronics chain’s largest
investor after stepping down as chairman in June, sent a letter
to the board yesterday with an acquisition proposal of $24 to
$26 a share, valuing Best Buy at as much as $9.5 billion
including net debt. Even at an earnings multiple that’s the
cheapest on record in the U.S. industry, the bid is as much as
40 percent higher than the stock’s 20-day price, topping the
group average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While Best Buy is  trading  17 percent below the low end of
the offer because Schulze didn’t name private-equity partners
and doesn’t yet have committed financing, the 71-year-old says
Minnesota law requires he get the board’s permission to form a
bidding group with buyout firms and executives. If Credit Suisse
Group AG’s confidence in raising debt leads to full financing,
the deal could provide a 14 percent bigger gain for shareholders
than analysts  project  Best Buy will generate on its own in the
next year as it struggles to compete with online retailers.  “It’s obviously a pretty good premium,”  Joe Feldman , a
New York-based analyst at Telsey Advisory Group, said in a
telephone interview. “A lot of investors may say this isn’t
such a bad deal given where things are at right now and the
stock otherwise might not get there on its own, so we’ll take
it. The issue is just whether they can get a deal done.”  ‘Due Course’  Best Buy confirmed in a statement that it had received the
letter from Schulze and said the board would consider it “in
due course.” A spokesman for Richfield, Minnesota-based Best
Buy wouldn’t comment further.  A spokesman for Schulze declined to comment beyond the
letter and statement.  Best Buy,  founded  by Schulze in 1966, sells everything from
computers and televisions to DVDs and mobile phones. Schulze
said he would explore all available options for his 20.1 percent
stake when he resigned as chairman in June after failing to
inform the board of allegations that  Brian Dunn , the company’s
former chief executive officer, had an inappropriate
relationship with an employee.  Schulze sent a letter yesterday to Best Buy’s  directors 
offering to acquire the rest of the company’s equity and net
debt, valuing the purchase at as much as $7.6 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That would be the biggest takeover
of a U.S. retailer since 2005 when Federated Department Stores
Inc., now Macy’s Inc., bought May Department Stores Co., and it
would also be the industry’s largest leveraged buyout on record,
the data show.  Board Negotiations  Schulze has negotiated unsuccessfully with the board for
the past several weeks, seeking permission to conduct due
diligence and form a bidding group, said a person familiar with
the matter. Best Buy’s board told Schulze it wasn’t a good time
to go private because it was looking for a new CEO, and asked
for three more weeks to consider the matter, said this person.  Best Buy  shares  yesterday traded only as high as $21.60,
less than the low end of Schulze’s proposed offer, before
closing at $19.99. While the stock was 13 percent higher than
its closing price Aug. 3, the shares were still 17 percent below
Schulze’s minimum offer because investors are skeptical he will
be able to secure enough money to fund the transaction, said
 Michael Pachter , an analyst for Wedbush Inc. in  Los Angeles .  “I think it’s worth less than where it’s trading at now,
so if investors can get more than that, then it’s a great
deal,” Pachter said in a phone interview. “The question is,
how much will financial institutions be comfortable lending? Can
he pull it off?”  ‘Highly Confident’  Today, shares of Best Buy fell 9 cents to $19.90.  Schulze’s letter to the board said he will pay with $1
billion of his own equity, investments from private-equity firms
and debt. The letter also said he retained Zurich-based Credit
Suisse as his financial adviser and that  Switzerland ’s second-
biggest bank is “highly confident that it can arrange the
necessary debt financing.” Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings
both cut Best Buy’s credit ratings to  junk  yesterday.  Schulze is still seeking the board’s permission to conduct
due diligence on the electronics retailer and form a group
including private-equity funds and other executives to formalize
the offer. Under Minnesota corporate law, Schulze needs
permission from directors to form the group.  “While I have not yet reached any such agreements, I am
confident, based on my discussions to date, that I could in
short order if the board allows me to do so,” Schulze said in
the letter.  Financing Obstacles  No private-equity firms are named in the letter. Still,
Schulze has sought and received interest from funds that want to
be part of his effort, and he likely would have two buyout firms
backing his offer, said a person familiar with the matter.  “There are a number of obstacles,” said R.J. Hottovy, a
Chicago-based analyst for Morningstar Inc. “I’m not convinced
he’s going to get approval from all of the board members. The
board and shareholders need more information before they will
sign off on this deal.”  Once a $29 billion company, Best Buy has wiped out more
than three-quarters of its market value as it lost sales to
Internet-based retailers such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  discount
stores  like Wal-Mart Stores Inc. Best Buy’s  same-store sales 
fell in seven of the last eight quarters, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  ‘Runaway Train’  After Best Buy shares declined  32 percent  in 2011, the
fourth-worst performance among  retail stocks  in the  S&P 500
Index , the stock extended its drop  this year  by another 25
percent through Aug. 3. The company reported its first annual
 net loss  in two decades in March, and the CEO resigned the next
month as the board investigated an inappropriate relationship
with a 29-year-old female employee.  Even the bottom of Schulze’s range is more than the $22.89
that analysts expected Best Buy’s stock to reach within 12
months as a standalone company, according to  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg as of July 29.  “If consumer sentiment is weak and unless there’s some hot
new product that nobody knows about, the stock isn’t getting
there in the next year,”  Louis Meyer , a New York-based special
situations analyst at Oscar Gruss & Son Inc., said in a phone
interview. “Schulze is saying, ‘Before this thing becomes a
runaway train, we need to interject ourselves.’ He sees the
urgency.”  ‘Penalty Box’  The takeover proposal values the entire company, including
net debt, at about 2.9 times its $3.26 billion in  earnings 
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in the
last 12 months, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That means
Schulze would be getting Best Buy for the cheapest Ebitda
multiple on record for a U.S. retail takeover of more than $500
million, the data show.  “When you are in a penalty-box situation, it’s very hard
to say what’s a reasonable price,”  David Schick , a Baltimore-
based analyst for Stifel Financial Corp., said in a phone
interview. “It’s obviously a bargain if management thinks it
can grow that Ebitda number. It’s not if the pressures are too
great.”  Schulze’s bid ranges between a 29 percent and 40 percent
premium versus Best Buy’s 20-day stock average before the
announcement. Takeovers of American retailers have historically
been valued at an average premium of 31 percent, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  “He’s pretty much right on target” in terms of price,
said Meyer of Oscar Gruss. The board knows that “nobody’s going
to come up with $30, especially if the company is not run any
better. There is no $30 bid coming. Another year of pretending
nothing bad is happening isn’t going to work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at   srabil@bloomberg.net . 