-- Best of British Pop Stars Vie for Olympic Spotlight
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-08-07T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/best-of-british-pop-stars-vie-for-olympic-spotight.html
As the  Olympic Games  put the
spotlight on the U.K., a swathe of new CDs patriotically flies
the Union Flag for Britons ruling the airwaves.  “NOW That’s What I Call British” is a relentlessly upbeat
collaborative effort, in keeping with the delighted spirit of
Team G.B. and its surprisingly large haul of medals.  The album, released for the Games, puts “Pocketful of
Sunshine” next to “Feel Good Inc.” and “Smile,” thanks to
the unlikely bedfellows of Natasha Bedingfield, Gorillaz and
 Lily Allen  (who just announced a stage-name change to Lily Rose
Cooper.)  “NOW” kicks off in fine style with Blur, which is playing
what may be the band’s last-ever show in Hyde Park on Aug. 12.
“Song 2,” just two minutes long and replete with catchy “woo-
hoos,” is as good as it gets.  Yet the tracks feel like they were chosen by corporate
committee -- the “NOW” series is a joint venture of EMI, Sony
and Universal. We don’t really need James Blunt or Sade’s
“Soldier of Love” with its military drumbeat. The vintage song
“Creep” isn’t Radiohead’s best, especially in a censored
version where Thom Yorke croons “you’re so VERY special.”  Rating: ***.  Baffling, Brilliant  “Isles of Wonder” is a souvenir of opening-ceremony
music. Released digitally minutes after the baffling and
brilliant event ended, it’s now also in physical form.  “ Jerusalem ” is followed by Mike Oldfield’s guitar
noodling, Dizzee Rascal going bonkers and Emeli Sande’s mournful
“Abide With Me.” I loved the Arctic Monkeys’ performance.  Fortunately, the two-CD set skips Mud’s “Tiger Feet” and
the tame “Hey Jude” sing-along by  Paul McCartney . Just because
he’s a great singer-songwriter doesn’t make him the only
possible show closer for Jubilee concerts or other jamboree.  The CDs offer a heavy dose of  Underworld , a group
overexposed at the ceremony which also had a lot of  James Bond ,
Mr. Bean and the Queen. There was only a smattering of high art
and Shakespeare in Danny Boyle’s spectacular staging that surely
had many non-Britons scratching their heads with its lengthy
segment on the free  National Health Service .  The closing ceremony will also come with an instant
download, doubtless equally drenched in Cool Britannia, Swinging
London and above all else Britpop, in every fashionable flavor.  Rating: ***.  Waterloo Sunset  Several CDs are out with the title “Best of British.” My
favorite is from UMTV, with hits such as “Waterloo Sunset” and
“Ghost Town.” U.K. stars are vying for worldwide domination
with as much drive as their sporting counterparts. Rating: ***.  As the U.K. casts off traditional stiff-upper-lip reserve
and showcases its culture, it’s time to discover P.J. Harvey’s
“Let  England  Shake,” the Clash’s “ London  Calling” or
Fairport Convention’s “Liege & Lief.”  These records suggest that the things that made Britain
great are cool drizzle, warm beer, bountiful breakfasts, urban
angst, wartime grit and constant apologizing. Rating: *****.  Village Green  Even more quintessentially English recordings are “Village
Green Preservation Society” by the Kinks, “All Mod Cons” by
the Jam and “Parklife” by Blur. Rating: ****.  “Arthur (Or the Decline and Fall of the British Empire)”
by the Kinks is a story with an agenda. In 1922 Britain ruled a
fifth of the world’s population and its greatest contribution to
global culture is the English language, its composer Ray Davies
said. Rating: ***.  When the Olympics have come and gone, forget about pop.
There will always be an England with its high teas, high culture
and the arcane rituals of summer evening cricket.  “NOW That’s What I Call British” is on EMI  North America /
 Sony Music  and Universal at about $12. Information:
 http://www.nowthatsmusic.com .  “Isles of Wonder: Music for the Opening Ceremony of the
London 2012 Olympic Games” is on Decca at about $18,
 http://www.deccarecords.com .  The other CDs are priced from $10. Download prices vary
across services.  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on  New York  dining and
 James Pressley  on books.  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in London at   mbeech@bloomberg.net 
or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 