-- Best of Decade Energy Stocks Cheap in Asia: Riskless Return
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-08-08T10:40:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/best-of-decade-energy-stocks-cheap-in-asia-riskless-return.html
Energy stocks , which have returned 54
percent more on a risk-adjusted basis than any other industry in
the  Asia  Pacific in the past decade, are trading at valuations
22 percent below their historic average, luring IG Investment
Management Ltd. and Lion Global Investors Ltd.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Energy Index rose 18.6 percent in the
past 10 years after adjusting for price swings, beating every
group on the regional equity gauge, according to the BLOOMBERG
RISKLESS RETURN RANKING. That’s more than double the risk-
adjusted gains of the more volatile S&P 500 Energy Index during
the decade through Aug. 3. The Asian energy measure added 0.7
percent at 6:39 p.m. today in Hong Kong, compared with a 0.4
percent gain by the broader index.  Investors in the industry, which includes  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ,
 China ’s largest offshore oil producer, and  Reliance Industries
Ltd. (RIL) , India’s biggest natural gas maker, more than quintupled
their money over the decade, rewarding them for enduring the
second-highest volatility of the 10 industry groups. Lion
Global, IG Investment and BNP Paribas SA are buying after a
sputtering global economy has driven valuations on the gauge to
an average 10.7 times estimated earnings, 22 percent below the
five-year average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “You’d want a strong, relatively overweight position for
the longer term,” said IG’s Tim Leung, whose Investors Pacific
International Fund beat 88 percent of its peers in the past
three years. “There’s structural growth for energy in Asia and
 emerging markets  because of the consumption story in China. The
near term is harder to forecast and there will be volatility.”  Leung helps manage about $1.5 billion at IG Investment
Management in  Hong Kong . Cnooc shares account for 2.8 percent of
the Investors Pacific fund, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Household Demand  Growth from China to India and Malaysia is propelling
higher consumption of electricity at factories and households
among the world’s fastest growing economies. Power demand will
almost double in the Asia Pacific region by 2030, according to
the  Asian Development Bank . The  International Energy Agency 
estimates global oil consumption will reach a record 89.9
million barrels a day this year, a 16 percent increase since
2001. China surpassed the U.S. as the world’s biggest energy
user in 2010.  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price-swing variation, giving a measure of income per
unit of risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset
can swing dramatically in a short period of time, increasing the
potential for unexpected losses compared with a security whose
price moves at a steady rate.  483 Percent  Investors that captured the  MSCI Asia Pacific Energy (MXAP0EN) 
index’s 483 percent gain in the past ten years endured a
volatility of 25.9, which is 20 percent higher than the average
for the 10 sectors on the benchmark during the period, the data
show. Only the  MSCI Asia Pacific Materials Index (MXAP0MT)  had bigger
swings in the region.  “The volatility of stocks within the energy sector can
vary widely, and not all the energy names are therefore highly
volatile,” said Jan de Bruijn, Singapore-based head of Asian
equities at Lion Global Investors, where he helps oversee $22.4
billion. “Our energy portfolios reflect this. We still see
value in energy stocks, in particular the upstream exploration
and production players. Demand for energy should continue to
grow in the longer term, with demand coming from emerging
markets.”  U.S. Returns  Volatility among Asian energy company stock prices is 13
percent lower than price swings on the  S&P 500 Energy Index (S5ENRS)  in
the U.S., the data show. The American gauge returned 9 percent
during the ten year period on a risk-adjusted basis, less than
half the returns of the Asian measure.  Shanghai-listed  Inner Mongolia Yitai Coal Co. (900948)  posted the
largest risk-adjusted return on the 43-member Asian energy gauge
over the 10-year period, the data show.  Inner Mongolia  has the
biggest coal reserves among all Chinese provinces, with about
700 billion tons at the end of 2008, according to the regional
government’s website. The company has a market value of $9
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Petronas Dagangan Bhd. (PETD)  posted the third-biggest risk-
adjusted return, with the lowest volatility over the 10 years,
the data show. The retailing arm of Malaysia’s state-run oil
company Petroliam Nasional Bhd. has expanded outside of the
southeast Asian country where it already supplies 51 percent of
liquefied petroleum gas, according to its 2011 annual report.
Its shares surged to a record high Aug. 3.  Index Heavyweight  Price swings for Petronas Dagangan Berhad were half those
of Inner Mongolia Yitai Coal, the data show. The analysis is
based on the gauge’s constituents as of Aug. 3.  Cnooc accounts  for 13 percent of the Asian energy gauge,
its biggest constituent, and trades for 8.5 times estimated
earnings, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  PetroChina Co. (857) ,
Asia’s largest company by market value and No. 2 by weight on
the energy gauge, trades for a multiple of 9.9. PetroChina’s
crude production is the highest among the world’s integrated oil
companies, according to Bloomberg Industries production data
through the end of 2011.  “The reality of this business is that costs are going up
and  oil prices  in the longer term still seem in a secular
uptrend,” said  Neil Beveridge , Hong Kong-based analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Cnooc shares are “fairly cheap and
with good growth ahead of it.”  Cnooc agreed July 23 to pay $27.50 a share for Calgary-
based  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  in a takeover deal valued at $15.1 billion. If
successful, it will be the biggest overseas takeover by a
Chinese company.  Bears Multiplying  Some investors looking to emulate the market-beating
returns of energy stocks of the past 10 years are wary that a
slowdown in economic growth in China may weaken energy demand
and curb profit growth. Investors are more bearish on the
industry than at any time since February 2007, according to a
July 17 Bank of America Corp. survey of money managers that have
$708 billion in client assets.  Earnings-per-share will rise 4.8 percent in 2012 for Asian
energy shares and gain 9.4 percent next year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That’s less than the 20 percent per-share profit
growth forecast on the broader Asian benchmark this year and 14
percent in 2013.  Whether or not the returns can be repeated in the next 10
years shouldn’t stop investors buying energy shares while they
are out of favor, said  Erwin Sanft , chief strategist for Asia
equities at BNP Paribas in Hong Kong, who has an overweight
position on energy shares in Asia.  Relative Gain  The Asia-Pacific energy gauge soared 617 percent in the
global-equity bull market between October 2002 and October 2007,
compared with a 157 percent gain on the  MSCI All-Country World
Index (MXWD)  of global developed and emerging market stocks. The energy
gauge fell 17 percent since then. That’s left the shares trading
with a price-earnings ratio 17 percent below the MSCI All-
Country World.  Emerging economies such as China, India and Indonesia will
provide all of next year’s oil-demand growth, with China alone
accounting for more than 30 percent of the global expansion,
according to International Energy Agency estimates July 12.  “People have sort of given up on energy stocks,” said
Sanft. “It’s the cheapest sector now. Energy companies have
very stable cashflow and high margins. We’re looking in
Thailand, India, the Korean refining sector and the Chinese oil
and gas sector.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  