-- Billionaire’s Granddaughter, Donkey Rider Clinch Dressage Gold
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-08-07T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/billionaire-s-granddaughter-donkey-rider-clinch-dressage-gold.html
A man who learned to ride on a
donkey and a billionaire’s granddaughter yesterday helped
Britain break  Germany ’s decades-long domination of Olympic
dressage in London.  It was the host’s first gold in the equestrian event, and
20,000 people cheered as  Charlotte  Dujardin and her horse
Valegro completed the victory at Greenwich Park in south London.
Germany won silver, while the Netherlands took bronze.  Dujardin broke a record set by teammate Carl Hester, 45, on
Uthopia, to overcome Germany, which had won every Olympic team
gold in dressage since 1976, apart from the boycott year in 1980.
Laura Bechtolsheimer, 27, with Mistral Hojris was the third
member of the squad.  “Outrageous,” Hester said in an interview after the medal
ceremony. “Just amazing that I learnt to ride on a bare-back
donkey.”  Hester grew up on the Channel island of Sark, off the
Normandy coast between Guernsey and  Jersey , where the only
transport available were horses and donkeys. When he was 19, he
applied for a job at a riding center in Hampshire,  England , and
was given his first opportunity to compete.  Bechtolsheimer is the granddaughter of German retail
billionaire Karl-Heinz Kipp. She moved from Germany to the
village of Ampney St. Peter in Gloucestershire, England, when
she was a year old with her father, former German dressage rider
Wilfried, and mother Ursula. Coached by her father, she started
riding on a pony called Peacock when she was three years old.  Billionaire’s Granddaughter  Kipp, the founder and former owner of the Massa retail
chain, is worth $5 billion, according to an estimate by Forbes
in March of this year.  Bechtolsheimer yesterday said she’d been inspired by
Britain’s first show jumping gold in 60 years the day before.  “I watched that from start to finish, I was jumping up and
down on the spot as they were going all clear,” Bechtolsheimer
said. “Seeing how awesome the crowd were when the British show
jumpers won their medal in such style, it definitely made me
think ‘right, I want that, too.”’  In dressage, the horse and rider perform a series of
controlled movements and are awarded scores for individual and
overall performance.  Britain had only been 0.5 percent ahead at the half-way
stage. Fluid and near-flawless rides by Hester and
Bechtolsheimer extended the lead to 1.16 percent, giving
Dujardin the chance the clinch the gold.  ‘Legs Like Jelly’  Despite “legs like jelly,” Dujardin scored an Olympic
record of 83.286 percent.  “I didn’t ride like I knew I could but he still felt
really good,” she said. “It’s so surreal. Valegro is the horse
of a lifetime.”  Britain has 22 gold medals overall at the  London  Olympics,
putting it in the record books as the most successful Olympic
campaign in 104 years.  “What this says about dressage is that it is accessible to
anyone,” Hester said. “The three of us come from three totally
different backgrounds.”  Hester hired Dujardin, 27, as a stable hand five years ago.
He’s also her coach as well as the co-owner of her horse,
Valegro.  Hester said the long partnerships between the three riders
and their horses had been key.  “We’ve all been with our horses for over five years, and
that shows that you can handle them in atmospheres like this and
with problems that arise from the tension that can be produced
in an Olympic stadium,” Hester said.  Training  It can take up to eight years to train a dressage horse to
an Olympic level. The Dutch team, which included triple Olympic
individual champion Anky van Grunsven, and the German squad
struggled because some of the horses and riders hadn’t worked
together for long.  In 2010, dressage fans in the Netherlands mounted an online
protest after former German Olympic show jumper  Paul
Schockemoehle  bought record-breaking black dressage stallion
Totilas from its owner, Kees Visser. Schockemoehle paid a record
15 million euros ($18.7 million), Dutch broadcaster NOS reported
at the time.  Totilas  was the first horse to score above 90 percent in
competition and win both team and individual gold at the 2009
European Championships and the 2010 World Equestrian Games with
his Dutch rider Edward Gal, who won bronze yesterday with his
new ride Undercover.  Shortly before the London Olympics, Totilas’s new German
rider, Matthias Rath, pulled out of the games, citing glandular
fever. None of the three German riders that took silver
yesterday had ever competed at an Olympic level before.  ‘Worked Hard’  “It’s important for the sport that many nations can reach
this goal,” German rider Helen Langehanenberg said in an
interview. “It’s not that the Germans are getting weaker. The
other countries did their homework and really worked hard on
it.”  Van Grunsven, whose medal performance has made dressage one
of the most popular sports in the Netherlands, said Britain’s
success was “great for the sport.”  The seven-time Olympian singled out Hester.  “He has really played a very important part in their gold
medal by picking those two horses, I really admire what he’s
done,” Van Grunsven said in an interview. “Besides from the
fact he trained those two horses, he’s also been able to show
his best under pressure, in front of a home crowd. That’s pretty
astonishing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Greenwich Park through the London sports
desk on   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  