-- Billionaire Wee to Retire as Chairman of Family Bank
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2012-08-08T02:48:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/billionaire-wee-to-retire-as-chairman-of-family-bank.html
Wee Cho Yaw, the 83-year-old
billionaire who turned a local Singapore bank into Southeast
Asia’s third-biggest lender, plans to step down as chairman of
the family-controlled  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB)   Wee, whose son Wee Ee Cheong took over as chief executive
officer in 2007, will give up his role to Hsieh Fu Hua, a former
president at Temasek Holdings Pte in April, according to an
exchange filing yesterday. The lender also reported a 12 percent
increase in  second-quarter profit , surpassing analysts’
estimates, following gains on investments.  “This is a passing of the baton, quite wisely you can’t
hold on forever,” said  Hugh Young , Singapore-based managing
director at Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Ltd., which owns
slightly less than 5 percent of UOB. “Hsieh has a wealth of
experience, knowledge of the financial industry, is well plugged
in and respected. It’s a sensible transitional change.”  The elder Wee, whose father founded the bank in 1935, has
charted  acquisitions  in Indonesia and  Thailand  that boosted
earnings and expanded operations beyond Singapore’s 5.2 million
people. He had led UOB as its CEO for more than three decades,
beating bigger rival DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in an acquisition
to extend his reach in Singapore, and propelled the bank into
new markets such as  Greater China , which made up 6.5 percent of
pretax profit in the first half.  Profit Gain  UOB’s net income gained to S$713 million ($574 million) in
the three months ended June 30, from S$636 million a year
earlier, the bank said yesterday. That beat the S$627 million
 average  of nine analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Fees
and commissions rose 14 percent while investment income and
gains from the sale of securities jumped 30 percent, compared
with 7.4 percent growth in income from  lending .  UOB joins DBS and Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. in
reporting higher earnings  as high-quality borrowers buffered an
economic slowdown, narrowing loan profitability and effects from
 Europe ’s debt crisis. The Monetary Authority of Singapore’s
forecast for 1 percent to 3 percent growth this year will make
further earnings improvement difficult, Barclays Plc said.  “In a slowing environment, it’s hard to see strong revenue
growth for the rest of the year for Singapore banks,” Lyris Koh, a Singapore-based analyst at Barclays, said before the
results. “I would still be cautious on the outlook for asset
quality just because as growth slows, we think that non-
performing loans might naturally start seeing an uptick,” she
said.  Shares Advance  The stock rose 0.8 percent to S$20.10 as of 10:40 a.m. in
Singapore trading, extending the gain this year to 32 percent.
That’s the best performance among the three Singapore banks,
with  DBS (DBS)  advancing 28 percent and OCBC adding 20 percent.  In 2001, the elder Wee also defeated DBS, the region’s
biggest bank by assets, in the S$10 billion takeover of Overseas
Union Bank Ltd. as the controlling family blocked a hostile bid
by DBS and opted for the sale to Wee.  The tussle for Overseas Union also led to statements by DBS
and its adviser Goldman Sachs Group Inc. distributed to
investors in Europe questioning the integrity of directors at
Overseas Union and UOB. The Singapore regulator said DBS and
Goldman acted “inappropriately” during the failed bid, which
resulted in a public apology.  The younger Wee, 59, joined the bank in 1979 and was named
deputy chairman and president in 2000.  Strategy Intact  The billionaire chairman owns shares in property investor
UOL Group Ltd., Tiger Balm maker Haw Par Corp., developer United
Industrial Corp. Ltd., United Overseas Insurance Ltd. and United
International Securities Ltd. He holds 263.8 million shares in
UOB worth $4.2 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The Wee family owns between 17 percent and 18 percent of the
bank, UOB said in a statement today.  “For the last over 50 years, his reputation and
contribution to the industry goes without saying,” CEO Wee said
of his father at a briefing in Singapore yesterday. “At some
point, we need to have transitions. As far as management is
concerned, as far as strategy is concerned, it all remains
intact.”  Hsieh stepped down as a president at Temasek, Singapore’s
state-owned investment company, in October 2011 after 13 months
to “make room for personal priorities.” He was also a former
CEO of  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)   The bank’s net interest income for the quarter was S$981
million, compared with fee and commission income of S$386
million and other non-interest income of S$243 million.  Wee’s Compensation  During the tenure of the elder Wee, who was born in Quemoy,
 China , UOB became the first Singapore lender to get a license to
conduct operations in  yuan  in 2002.  The chairman was paid S$2.75 million to S$3 million in the
year ended Dec. 31, according to UOB’s annual report. His
compensation included a S$2.25 million fee for “providing
valuable advice and guidance” to the management, it said.  “This could cede more power to the CEO and the executive
management, given that the old man has been a very strong
hand,” Aberdeen’s Young said. “Maybe the son will feel a
little freer, which would be understandable. Working with a
chairman who has lived and breathed the bank can be a little
intimidating, especially or even if he’s your father.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in  Singapore  at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  