-- Black Holes Once Stirred a Seething Cosmic Cauldron
-- B y   C a l e b   S c h a r f
-- 2012-08-07T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/black-holes-once-stirred-a-seething-cosmic-cauldron.html
The real work of modern science often
starts with pixels on a screen. In one case, in the spring of
2003, a display of pixels on my desk in  New York  conveyed the
message that Chandra, the X-ray telescope orbiting high above
the Earth’s surface, had obtained a precious cargo of data.  For the previous couple of days, the finest mirrors and
instruments that humans could produce had pointed toward a small
patch of the cosmos, close to the constellation of Auriga -- the
Charioteer. In this direction we could see all the way to
4C41.17, a mysterious structure deep in the cosmic past.  As I squinted at the noisy spread of pixels, I noticed
within it a shape: a pinpoint of X-ray light, along with
something else. I sent the image to a printer. Subdued by the
heat-fused ink, the noisy features dissipated, and there in
stark relief was the extraordinary light of something unknown.
It looked like a dragonfly’s wings.  At the center of the image was the bright pinpoint of
light, easy enough to identify as the intense X-ray emission
from a super-massive black hole. But what was this other
mysterious stuff, the wings of light, spanning more than 300,000
light-years?  I pored over articles in astrophysical journals and
cautiously brought up the data with other colleagues. A few
ideas bounced around. Then I noticed two papers that helped shed
light on the problem. To explain them requires first giving a
little background in the relevant physics.  Mass, Energy  Out in the cosmos, the jets of matter squirting from black
holes can accelerate particles such as electrons to huge
velocities. These particles carry an exceptional amount of
kinetic energy, and as their speed increases, they become more
massive and more energetic -- like a sponge getting larger as it
soaks up water. When a photon happens to bounce or scatter off
one of these speedy electrons, it takes up some of the energy.
Incredibly, electrons moving fast enough can boost a photon from
the microwave domain all the way up to the X-ray and even gamma-
ray domain. That’s like taking a cup of coffee and boosting its
temperature high enough to drive the steam turbines of a power
plant.  This could explain the X-ray photons I was seeing. A super-
massive black hole was already thought to live in the system.
But what about the low-energy photons? In the present-day
universe there are about 410 cosmic-microwave-background photons
in every cubic centimeter of space. This was nowhere near enough
to account for the huge output in energy I was seeing. I
twiddled my thumbs and stared out the window, trying to imagine
myself in that distant place, and suddenly the pieces started
fitting together.  The explanation hinged on time. The universe was very
different 12 billion years ago than it is today. Back then, not
yet 2 billion years after the Big Bang, the cosmos was much
smaller. Space time was quite literally more compact; the
distance between galaxies was less than a quarter of what it is
now. This also meant that the cosmic-background photons had not
yet been stretched as much as they would be over the next 10
billion years, so they were almost five times more energetic.
Here could be the answer! The thick sea of photons would bounce
and scatter off the electrons pouring from around a black hole,
and would light up the region with X-rays.  Glowing Bubbles  This meant something else, too -- something wonderful. What
I seemed to be witnessing was a black hole in the center of a
young galaxy cluster blowing bubbles just as its descendants do
in the present-day universe. Except the bubbles were lit up as
they boosted photons into the X-ray band -- a beautiful and
elegant manifestation of fundamental physics. Bursting with
excitement, I called Ian Smail, at Durham University in northern
 England , the colleague I was working with. We might not have
seen the hot gas of a baby galaxy cluster directly, but we had
found the stuff inside that gas. We had found the glowing
bubbles driven by the massive heart of a black hole.  Now we wanted to know exactly what was happening in this
extraordinary environment. The black hole was squirting out
relativistic particles and inflating bubbles within an unseen
medium of gas, and this gas was being gathered up in the growing
gravity well of the system. But it also had to be getting dense
and cool enough to produce all the big and short-lived stars,
and it had to be feeding the black hole. We were missing a
crucial piece that would show us exactly where the rest of the
matter was in this system.  A few weeks went by and serendipity raised its head again.
This time it was in the form of a chance meeting with the Dutch-
born astronomer Wil van Breugel, from the Lawrence Livermore
National Laboratory and the  University of California . Van
Breugel had access to the two great Keck telescopes that are
perched on Mauna Kea in  Hawaii . At an altitude of 13,000 feet,
these instruments were the perfect tools for capturing visible
light from ancient structures.  Van Breugel told us he and his colleagues had captured our
object, 4C41.17. It had taken one of the Keck telescopes, with
its more than 30-foot-diameter mirror, more than seven hours of
exposure time to produce the image, and the view stunned us.
There was the hydrogen gas, recovering from some as-yet-unknown
buffeting, cooling off by emitting photons of ultraviolet light.
In the center were bright clumps and specks, each thousands of
light-years across. There was an hourglass shape to the whole
thing. It gave the impression of matter both coming and going,
flowing inward, but also being propelled outward, a 12 billion-
year-old tempest.  Cosmic Structure  Especially intriguing to me was the transfer of energy from
the jet-driven particles of the black hole to the cosmic photons
in order to produce the glowing X-ray forms. Here was a new
mechanism for a black hole to reach out and tweak the cosmic
structure. It would happen only in the youthful universe, where
space time was still compact enough for the photons to
efficiently seed this transfer. It seemed we had found a new way
for black holes to sculpt and mold the world around them, to
disrupt the formation of new stars and structures.  This evidence indicates that black holes regulate the
production of new stars in the giant galaxies of today’s
universe, and have likely done so throughout cosmic time. And in
the very distant past, they could limit how big those galaxies
could ever hope to grow, acting like farmers keeping weeds under
control.  While our interpretation seems reasonable, there is always
room for future investigation. Regardless, the most remarkable
aspect for me was my own shifting sense of what a massive galaxy
in the young universe might be like. I had thought that a galaxy
would form serenely and majestically from the gentle
condensation of material out of the pristine sea of hydrogen,
helium and dark matter.  In contrast, 4C41.17 was revealed to be a maelstrom. In a
billion or 2 billion years this would indeed be another giant
galaxy, almost certainly an elliptical fuzzball of hundreds of
billions of stars. But we were witnessing an early stage when it
was a pit of seething radiation and particles, driven by the
thrashing forces of a growing super-massive black hole.  There is now little doubt that super-massive black holes
have played a major, likely dominant, role in sculpting the
cosmic forms that we see. Twelve billion years ago, and even
earlier, they stemmed the flood of new stars as matter cooled
and condensed. And they have continued to hold matter at bay.  Elsewhere, in other galaxies, super-massive black holes
also make their presence felt. But in these other places, the
interplay between construction and destruction is more complex.
We happen to find ourselves living in a very large spiral
galaxy, the Milky Way. It’s natural to wonder what influence
black holes have had on this place, and what role they might
continue to play.  (Caleb Scharf, an astrophysicist, is the director of
Columbia University’s Astrobiology Center and author of the blog
Life, Unbounded. This is the third of five excerpts from his new
book, “ Gravity’s Engines: How Bubble-Blowing Black Holes Rule
Galaxies, Stars and Life in the Cosmos ,” which will be published
on Aug. 14 by Farrar, Straus and Giroux. The opinions expressed
are his own. Read p art 1 , p art 2 ,  part  4 and  part 5 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how to fight the  Haqqani
terrorist network  and on why  German bailout fears  are overblown;
 Margaret Carlson  on the  Tea Party’s Senate takeover ; Clive Crook
on why  debt forgiveness still makes sense ;  Edward Glaeser  on why
 parking lots for public housing  make everyone poorer;  Peter
Orszag  on the beauty of  Build America Bonds ; Meir Javedanfar on
the price of chicken and  economic hardship in Iran .  To contact the writer of this article:
Caleb Scharf at  caleb@astro.columbia.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  