-- Brazilian Sugar-Export Profits Tumble as Futures Retreat
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-08-07T09:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/brazilian-sugar-export-profits-tumble-as-futures-retreat.html
Exports of sugar from  Brazil , the
world’s largest producer, were less profitable in the week ended
Aug. 3 after the futures traded in  New York  retreated, according
to Cepea, a University of Sao Paulo research group.  Shipping the sweetener was 0.4 percent more advantageous
than selling it in the domestic market, Cepea said in a report
e-mailed yesterday. That compares with 5.3 percent a week
earlier. Raw sugar futures declined 2.3 percent on ICE Futures
U.S. in the same period as dry weather helped the harvest
advance in Brazil and concerns about a below-average monsoon in
 India , the second-biggest grower, subsided.  Brazil’s sugar-cane output climbed 3.9 percent in the first
half of July after dry weather helped accelerate the harvest,
data from industry group Unica showed. The amount of cane
processed in the last 15 days of July may reach a record,
according to broker Newedge Group in New York. A revival in
India’s monsoon, which accounts for more than 70 percent of the
country’s annual rainfall, will benefit crops including sugar
cane, according to L.S. Rathore, director general of the  India
Meteorological Department .  “In Brazil, the steady weather, without rains, continued
to facilitate the harvesting of the sugarcane and exports,”
Heloisa Lee Burnquist, an analyst at Cepea, said in a report e-
mailed yesterday. “Weather conditions have improved in
Maharashtra state, the main producing state in India.”  Local prices for crystal sugar slid 0.7 percent to 59.02
reais ($29.05) a 50 kilogram (110 pound) bag last week, Cepea
data showed. Sugar sales in the domestic market were 41 percent
more profitable than anhydrous ethanol, the kind used to blend
into gasoline, and 61 percent more advantageous than hydrous
ethanol, used in flex-fuel cars, it said. Both the sweetener and
the biofuel are made from raw material sugar cane.  Crystal sugar, used in Brazil’s domestic market, has an
International Commission for Uniform Methods of Sugar Analysis
level of between 130 and 180, according to the Cepea website. A
lower level corresponds to a higher degree of whiteness. The
refined variety traded on NYSE Liffe calls for an ICUMSA level
of 45.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 