-- Bring Back Build America Bonds
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-08-07T22:30:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/bring-back-build-america-bonds.html
The  unemployment rate  remains stuck
at more than 8 percent. More investment in roads, water systems,
airports and other public infrastructure would bring both short-
and long-term benefits. And state and local governments face
ongoing deficits. So wouldn’t it be great if we could design an
efficient way to channel tax subsidies to state and local
governments to invest in infrastructure?  Turns out we already have: the Build America Bonds program,
which was a huge success in 2009 and 2010, but then expired. If
you want an example of how political polarization is impeding
sound economic policy, BABs would be hard to beat. Despite no
credible argument against it, a divided Congress refuses to
reinstate the program.  The traditional approach to subsidizing state and local
bonds is to allow the interest to be excluded from federal
taxation. The problem with that strategy for both efficiency and
fairness is that the tax break varies with the bond purchaser’s
marginal tax rate.  Assume, for example, that the interest rate on a tax-
subsidized bond is determined by equating the after-tax return
of that bond with a taxable Treasury bond for someone in the 25
percent tax bracket. If the Treasury bond yield is 2 percent,
the tax-subsidized bond would yield 1.5 percent. As a result,
someone in the 35 percent tax bracket effectively would enjoy a
windfall of 20 basis points (two-tenths of a percent) -- since
that person would have been willing to buy the bond at a 1.3
percent yield.  Windfall Cost  The  Congressional Budget Office  and the Joint Committee on
Taxation have  concluded  that this type of windfall means that
only about 80 percent of the tax expenditure is reflected in
lower borrowing costs for state and local governments, and the
remaining 20 percent is simply “a federal transfer to
bondholders in higher tax brackets.”  Enter Build America Bonds, which provide a direct subsidy
that is not dependent on marginal tax rates, and thereby
delivers the full federal subsidy to state and local
governments. (This reflects a broader point, made by Lily
Batchelder, Fred Goldberg and me in a Stanford Law Review
 article , that linking tax breaks to marginal tax rates is almost
never efficient.) BABs have two other subtle benefits: They draw
new participants to the market -- investors with low or zero tax
rates, such as pension funds. And they help drive down the
 interest rate  on traditional state and local bonds.  The original BABs program set the subsidy rate at 35
percent. The response was extremely strong: State and local
governments issued more than 2,000 of the bonds, which financed
more than $180 billion in capital infrastructure investments.
State and local governments saved $20 billion in present value
by issuing BABs rather than traditional tax-exempt bonds, the
Treasury Department  estimates . Lowering the cost of these state
and local investments seems more desirable than using the same
federal dollars to provide an excess windfall to high-income
bondholders.  Although there’s no doubt that we can make better use of
the infrastructure we already have (including through more
congestion pricing of our transportation systems and more
variable pricing of water use), additional investment can bring
significant benefits -- especially in today’s slow economy.
After all, it would create jobs, notably in construction. And
 evidence  suggests that infrastructure investments often help
bolster housing values.  Rate Matters  So why not revive Build America Bonds? One concern is that
the 35 percent subsidy rate in the original program was not
deficit-neutral for the federal government. That problem is not
caused by the structure of the bonds, however; it just depends
on what subsidy rate is chosen. In proposing a new BABs program,
the Obama administration has suggested a permanent 28 percent
rate, which according to the Congressional Budget Office and the
Joint Committee on Taxation, would cost the federal government
$7 billion over the next decade.  That $7 billion would be about 10 percent of the estimated
size of the proposed program -- suggesting that a subsidy rate
of about 25 percent would allow the federal government to break
even.  Would state and local governments be interested in issuing
BABs that carried a 25 percent subsidy rate? I bet they would,
and it’s certainly worth finding out.  I can’t think of a reasonable objection to reinstating BABs
with a deficit-neutral subsidy rate. That this is not even being
tried is as close as you can get to definitive proof that, in a
polarized Congress, inertia is a force much stronger than
evidence or reason.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking at Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how to fight the  Haqqani
terrorist network  and on why  German bailout fears  are overblown;
 Margaret Carlson  on the  Tea Party’s Senate takeover ; Clive Crook
on why  debt forgiveness still makes sense ;  Edward Glaeser  on why
 parking lots for public housing  make everyone poorer; Meir
Javedanfar on the price of chicken and  economic hardship in
Iran ; Caleb Scharf on clues to the  behavior of black holes .  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  