-- Brisa Investor Bid for Full Control Awaits Abertis Move
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-08-07T14:49:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/brisa-investor-bid-for-full-control-awaits-abertis-move.html
Brisa-Auto Estradas de Portugal SA ’s
third-largest investor is holding off on tendering stock,
potentially undercutting an effort by the two bigger
shareholders to buy full control of the toll-road operator.  The 2.76 euro-a-share offer from the Tagus Holdings Sarl
venture of family-owned holding company Jose de Mello SGPS SA
and London-based Arcus Infrastructure Partners LLP’s Aeif Apollo
unit expires tomorrow. Analysts including Elodie Rall at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. predict most minority investors will
accept, and eight funds with about 140 million euros ($174
million) in Portuguese assets disposed of a combined 7 percent
stake in July, according to the country’s  securities regulator .  “I plan to sell all of my shares in Brisa,” Pedro Pintassilgo, a  fund manager  at F&C Management Ltd. in Lisbon
said in a telephone interview yesterday. “I believe that the
Tagus bid will have a very high level of success.”  The Tagus partners already own a 49.6 percent equity stake
and 53.8 percent of the  voting rights  in Brisa. The Portuguese
highway operator’s Spanish counterpart,  Abertis Infraestructuras
SA (ABE) , is the third-ranked investor with 16 percent of votes. The
Tagus bid values Brisa, which is based in the Lisbon suburb of
Sao Domingos de Rana, at 1.66 billion euros.  Abertis Decision  Abertis, which criticized Tagus’s initial offer in March of
2.66 euros a share as inadequate, has declined to comment since
the bid was raised 3.8 percent in mid-July. A spokeswoman at the
Barcelona-based toll-road operator said today that Abertis
hadn’t yet decided on whether to accept the bid and would
announce any move on the last day of the offer.  As a deepening recession in  Portugal  continues to weigh on
Brisa’s toll-road revenue, Credit Suisse AG said on July 31 that
the revised Tagus offer is an opportunity for investors to exit
the stock.  “Investors should accept the offer as it is approximately
in line with our target price,” Robert Crimes, a London-based
analyst, said in the Credit Suisse research report. Crimes cut
his share-price estimate for Brisa to 2.50 euros from 2.60 euros
after the company said first-half income dropped 44 percent from
a year earlier to 31.9 million euros.  Abertis’s acceptance will be crucial for Tagus to obtain
the 90 percent voting control of Brisa that would enable the
owners to de-list the toll-road company under Portuguese market
rules. Tagus  said  on July 16 that once the results of its offer
are determined, it may request removal of Brisa shares from
trading. The venture doesn’t have a target holding because the
partners already hold majority control of Brisa, Jose de Mello
SGPS Chairman Vasco de Mello told journalists on March 29.  Acceptance Announcement  Results of the tender are scheduled to be announced at 5
p.m. Aug. 9, said Paula Cordeiro, a spokeswoman for the NYSE
Euronext Lisbon exchange.  “Abertis is an industrial group with strong shareholders,
a good balance sheet and a beautiful mergers and acquisitions
record,” said Myriam Cohen, an analyst at Alphavalue in Paris.
“They have the capacity to resist the offer at this price.” At
the same time, Abertis is “also in a reshuffling phase of
assets, and they may not want to manage a minority stake.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  