-- Hoy Ends Cycling by Winning British-Record Sixth Olympic Gold
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-08-07T23:47:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/britain-captures-two-more-golds-on-final-night-of-track-cycling.html
Chris Hoy won a sixth gold medal on
the final day of track cycling to surpass rower Steve Redgrave
as Britain’s most successful Olympic athlete.  Hoy, 36, won the men’s keirin yesterday for his second gold
of the London games. The victory took his tally of total Olympic
medals to seven, matching the mark set by  Tour de France 
champion Bradley Wiggins six days earlier.  “It’s what I always wanted -- to win gold in front of my
home crowd,” Hoy told reporters. “This is the perfect end to
my Olympic career.”  Hoy, a Scot, was knighted by Prince Charles in 2009, giving
him the right to call himself Sir. Redgrave, another recipient
of the honor, in 2000 became the first endurance athlete to win
a gold medal in five straight games. Hoy’s Olympic career began
at the same Sydney games where Redgrave’s ended.  “At Sydney, I was just over the moon with a silver
medal,” Hoy said. “If I’d have stopped then I would have been
a happy boy, but to go on to  Athens , Beijing and here, I can’t
put it into words.”  Hoy took silver in the team sprint in 2000 and won the 1-
kilometer time trial four years later in Athens. In 2008 in
Beijing, he added golds in the team sprint, keirin and sprint.  Also yesterday, Britain’s Laura Trott won the women’s
omnium and Victoria Pendleton won silver in the women’s sprint.  In all, Britain won seven of the 10 gold medals at the
Velodrome, which Hoy helped design.  Medal Tally  Britain’s tally at the London games now stands at 22 golds
and 48 total medals, its best performance since 1908, when the
U.K. capital first hosted the games.  China  leads with 34 gold
and 73 medals. The U.S. is second, with 30 gold among its 70
medals, and the British are third.  The host nation’s track cycling success came less than a
month after Wiggins became the first British rider to win the
Tour de  France .  Wiggins went on to win the time trial in road cycling at
the London Olympics, with countryman Chris Froome, who was
second in the tour, claiming the bronze.  Last night, Hoy came from behind to beat German Maximilian
Levy, 25, who won silver. Simon van Velthooven of  New Zealand 
and Teun Mulder of the Netherlands shared the bronze.  Trott, who already had won the flying lap and elimination
race in the  six-event omnium , went into the time trial with 17
points to Sarah Hammer’s 15 and had to beat the 28-year-old
American by three places in the final event to win the gold.
Competitors’ placings in each race are added together and the
person with the lowest score is the winner.  ‘Losing My Head’  Trott, 20, won the 500-meter time trial in 35.11 seconds,
with Hammer coming in fourth at 35.90. Trott finished with 18
points ahead of Hammer with 19, and Annette Edmondson of
 Australia  won the bronze with 24 points.  “I cannot believe this is happening to me,” Trott said.
“I was losing my head a little bit between the events because
they weren’t going the way I wanted them to. I’m so happy.”  Pendleton, who was disqualified from the women’s team
sprint on Aug. 2, was relegated from first to second following
the opening race of the best-of-three sprint final against Anna
Meares after officials said she hadn’t held her line in the last
200 meters.  The 31-year-old Briton went into the second race needing
victory to stand a chance of winning the gold medal. A burst on
the back straight saw Meares, 28, take a lead that Pendleton was
unable to overhaul and the Australian tore off her visor in
celebration after avenging Pendleton’s victory in the keirin.  “I would have loved to have won in my final race,”
Pendleton, who is retiring from competition, told reporters. “I
am just so glad I am done and I can move on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny at the Olympic Park Velodrome at   tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  