-- Australia Doubles Olympic Gold Total as China Keeps Medals Lead
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-08-08T02:09:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/brownlee-wins-triathlon-as-britain-ties-beijing-gold-total.html
Hurdler Sally Pearson and cyclist
Anna Meares doubled Australia’s gold-medal tally at the London
Games, soothing angst over an Olympic performance that is
falling short of expectations.  Australian sports officials have struggled to explain how
the nation -- which has finished seventh or better on the medals
table at the past four Olympics and was targeting a similar
performance in London -- is tied with countries such as  Iran  and
 North Korea  with four golds so far and is 11th in the standings.  Pearson, 25, won the women’s 100-meter hurdles in an
Olympic-record time of 12.35 seconds yesterday, holding off
defending champion Dawn Harper of the U.S. by 0.02 seconds.  “Relief was the first thing I felt, and then shock,” said
Pearson, who was runner-up to Harper four years ago. “The whole
of Australia wanted me to win.”  With five days left at the 2012 games,  China  leads the
standings with 34 golds among its 73 medals. The U.S. is second
with 30 golds and 70 medals, and Britain ranks third with 22
golds and 48 total medals, its best performance in 104 years.  The final of the women’s 200 meters is among 16 medal
events today. Sanya Richards-Ross, 27, of the U.S., who won the
400-meter gold medal three days ago, was fastest in qualifying
for the 200 final in 22.30 seconds. Fellow American Allyson Felix, a three-time world champion, was next fastest in 22.31,
followed by two Jamaicans -- two-time defending champion
Veronica Campbell-Brown, 30, and Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce, 25,
who has won two straight 100-meter titles.  Men’s 200  The semifinals of the men’s 200 are tonight. Jamaica’s
Usain Bolt, 25, who is seeking his second straight 100-200
Olympic sprint sweep, eased to victory yesterday in the opening
heat of the 200 in 20.39.  Also yesterday, cyclist Chris Hoy helped Britain surpass
its gold and overall medal total from 2008 by winning the men’s
keirin. It was Hoy’s sixth Olympic gold, a British record.  Hoy, 36, moved one gold medal ahead of retired rower Steve Redgrave for most by a British athlete. It was also his seventh
Olympic medal in total, matching the British record set by Tour
de France winner Bradley Wiggins last week.  American Aly Raisman, 18, won the women’s floor exercise as
the gymnastics program ended at the 2012 games.  “It’s the best routine I’ve ever done,” said Raisman, who
also won a team gold medal. “To have won a gold medal, two gold
medals, is really special.”  Brazil  and  Mexico  advanced to their first men’s soccer
gold-medal game. Brazil beat  South Korea  3-0 and Mexico defeated
Japan 3-1.  Beach Volleyball  Women’s beach volleyball two-time defending champions Misty May-Treanor and Kerri Walsh Jennings advanced to an all-American
final with their 20th straight victory at the games. Today, in
the final, they will face compatriots April Ross and Jen Kessy,
who rallied to defeat top-seeded Brazilians Juliana Felisberta
Silva and Larissa Franca.  Meares, 28, beat defending champion Victoria Pendleton of
Britain in the final of the women’s sprint at the velodrome to
give Australia its third gold of the games. Then Pearson made it
four with her photo-finish win in the hurdles.  The two victories provided respite to the disappointment
Australia has experienced at the games, especially in swimming -
- in which it usually vies with the U.S. for top honors.
Australians got one gold medal in the  London  pool in the women’s
400-meter freestyle relay. It was the first time the nation’s
swimmers failed to secure an individual Olympic title since the
1976 Montreal Games.  Lost Bet  Australian Sports Minister Kate Lundy lost a bet over
Olympic medals to British Sports Minister Hugh Robertson. As a
result, she will wear a British uniform while rowing at the
Olympic venue south of London.  “There’s a lot of people back home wishing we have more
gold medals on our ledger,” Lundy told BBC radio.  Australian Olympic team chief Nick Green said in an Aug. 5
news conference that national sports officials will evaluate the
performance after the London games. Swimming  Australia  said two
days ago that former Olympic champion Susie O’Neill will help
lead its review.  “We will have a post-mortem on every single sport, look at
what they did right, what they did wrong and how they can
improve,” Green said.  Blame has been placed on everything from sports programs at
Australian state schools to low salaries allowing other nations
to poach Australia’s best coaches. The athletes say they are
trying their best.  “It’s a bit hurtful when people say we’ve been
underperforming,” swimmer Cate Campbell, 20, who was on the
winning Australian relay squad, said in a Aug. 5 news conference.
“We go out there and we pour our heart and soul into every
single performance. It’s not that we haven’t been performing,
it’s just that the world has stepped up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  