-- Builders Face Fury as Square Torn Apart Amid Georgia Demo
-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l
-- 2012-08-07T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/builders-face-fury-as-square-torn-apart-amid-tbilisi-demo.html
The builders have arrived in one of
the oldest parts of town and people are nervous. Workers dressed
in yellow vests and helmets are busy hammering the walls inside
a blue building in  Georgia ’s capital Tbilisi.  A crowd gathers in the square, named for one of the
country’s best-known artists, Lado Gudiashvili. There have been
protests here demanding the preservation of the 1830s mansion,
where Russian poet Mikhail Lermontov once stayed. A  Facebook 
page protesting its demolition has been liked by more than 1,300
people. Was it all in vain?  The developers insist that the plan is to restore the area
rather than demolish anything. Still, the conflict shows the
sensitivity of conservation versus construction in the Black Sea
nation that wants to modernize as well as attract tourists.  “It’s a disaster,” says conservationist Nato
Tsintsabadze. “This beautiful building and its neighborhood is
on the verge of destruction. The public protests are absolutely
necessary as cultural tourism is destroyed by poor planning.”  As the builders hammer away, an old poster dangles across
the street, saying “Save and Secure Gudiashvili!” During the
protest, more than 1,000 people gathered, sometimes in freezing
winter days. Some danced and read poetry in events organized by
Tiflis Hamkari, a non-profit, non-governmental group.  Before the builders start work, Tsintsabadze takes me to a
wooden balcony area. Here, archaeologists found the remains of
Roman Baths. In her opinion, they have been badly renovated. The
stone-columned house is one of the earliest attempts to merge
Tbilisi architecture with Russian Classicism. Until recently it
housed offices of the Literaturuli Sakartvelo newspaper.  Underground Parking  “We are taking down the valuable ornaments,” says Natia
Qarqashadze, a project coordinator at Paul Shuler and Irao
Group. “We are saving what we can and will reuse them. We will
restore other elements and plan underground parking not under
the actual building, rather in its yard.”  Tbilisi Development Fund, founded in 2010, also dismisses
the accusations.  “We spend as much as $3 million annually,” the fund’s
chief Giorgi Sabanadze says in an interview. “Some buildings
haven’t been touched in 80 years and their crumbling condition
is alarming. No major changes are planned around the square, and
the balcony building will be restored to its original look.”  Tourism is an important part of Georgia’s revitalization,
which began in 2003, when President Mikheil Saakashvili came to
power in the Rose Revolution.  Silk Road  The nation of 4.5 million people on the Silk Road has also
been trying to restore its economy after a five-day war in 2008
over the region of  South Ossetia . Georgia’s $14.4 billion
economy grew 7 percent in 2011, according to March preliminary
estimates.  Georgia was ranked the world’s third-fastest growing
tourist destination last year, with a 39 percent increase in
arrivals, the World Tourism Barometer said in March. There was a
threefold increase in Russian arrivals in the first quarter and
more than 3 million visitors are forecast to arrive this year.  The National Tourist Agency says that about half visit
Tbilisi. Tourism may contribute 11 percent to economic output
over the next few years, up from 7 percent, according to Vera
Koala, economy and sustainable development minister.  While the municipality has power to stop the aggressive
reconstruction that started about 2007, it lacks the expertise,
says Tsintsabadze, who is Secretary General of ICOMOS Georgia,
International Council of Monuments and Sites.  Entertainment Tourism  Some archeological findings are now completely lost after
the municipality reworked the area of old district of
Abanotubani, she says. Soon there will be only “entertainment
tourism” like  Las Vegas  and no history to see.  “Builders came with bulldozers and simply wiped out that
old heritage, just like that,” she says. “They recklessly
demolish or construct fake buildings that may look old, but have
nothing to do with that.”  “I don’t believe that they won’t change the image,” says
Tiflis Hamkari’s head Aleko Elisashvili. “They’ve already
violated the rules of how real reconstruction should be done.”
After the first protest, a plan for a glass construction and
modern shopping mall was dropped, he says.  Since 1999, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization hasn’t added to Georgia’s list of three
cultural heritage sites. One of those, Bagrati-Gelati’s
restoration, was temporarily on hold as demanded by UNESCO, but
now is being reconstructed in full under UNESCO supervision and
advice, says Nika Rurua, Georgia’s Minister of Culture and
Monument Protection of Georgia.  “I don’t agree that the renovations of old areas of
Tbilisi is damaging, he says, pointing to buildings on one of
the oldest streets, Aghmashenebeli Avenue. “They were not just
in terrible condition but also dangerous.”  Not everyone is so sure.  “We do have valuable cultural heritage monuments but no
knowledge of their management,” Tsintsabadze says. “I worry
that our children will be left with nothing to be proud of.”  Muse highlights include: Mark Beech on rock music and  Ryan
Sutton  on  New York  dining.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 