-- Cablevision Profit Tops Estimates as Internet Customers Rise
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-08-07T20:20:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/cablevision-profit-beats-estimates-as-internet-subscribers-rise.html
Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , the New
York-area cable TV operator, reported second-quarter profit that
topped analysts’ estimates as it added more phone and broadband
subscribers.  Net income fell to $63.5 million, or 24 cents a share, from
$87.8 million, or 32 cents, a year earlier, when spun-off  AMC
Networks Inc. (AMCX)  contributed to earnings, the company said today in
a statement. Analysts had estimated 19 cents on average,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cablevision is spending more money on its infrastructure
and New York-area plants to increase customer’s broadband speeds
and expand Wi-Fi access.  Capital expenditures  rose 38 percent to
$296.4 million last quarter. The increases in spending could
continue throughout the second half of this year and in the
first half of 2013, Chief Executive Officer  James Dolan  said
during a conference call.  “The company is very much in investment mode,”  Marci Ryvicker , an analyst at  Wells Fargo & Co . in  New York , said in a
note to clients. “Management’s focus on operational improvement
is becoming much clearer to the investment community.”  Cablevision shares were unchanged today in New York
trading, closing at $15.83. The stock has risen 11 percent this
year.  18 Initiatives  Cablevision has been working on about 18 different
initiatives, Dolan said, without providing specifics on what all
of them are. Some include building out Wi-Fi access, including
for use on trains, rolling out a new video interface to all
customers later this year, and upgrading broadband speeds.  The Federal Communications Commission reported last month
that Cablevision is delivering higher Internet speeds than its
own advertisements, a reversal from a year ago when
Cablevision’s actual speeds were just 55 percent of advertised
speeds, according to Jason Bazinet, a New York-based analyst at
Citigroup Inc.  Dolan said he aims to complete most of the projects this
year, though the timing isn’t certain.  “We’re committed to finishing the initiatives because we
think that overall they’re very good for the health of the
company and customer satisfaction,” he said.  Market Valuations  Sales were $1.7 billion last quarter, in line with
analysts’ estimates. Average revenue per user rose 1.7 percent
to $155.12.  AMC contributed $18.6 million, or 6 cents per share, to
earnings last year. Excluding AMC, Cablevision’s profit fell 8.3
percent in the second quarter.  Recent cable acquisitions, including  Cogeco Cable Inc. (CCA) ’s
$1.36 billion deal for Atlantic Broadband Inc. and Suddenlink
Communications’ $6.6 buyout by  BC Partners , CPP Investment Board
and CEO Jerry Kent, have suggested that market valuations for
public cable companies such as Cablevision are too low,
according to  Jason Armstrong , an analyst at Goldman Sachs & Co.
in New York.  Cablevision, which has about 3.3 million video subscribers,
added 25,000 Internet customers and 23,000 voice subscribers in
the quarter. The cable provider’s TV customers were unchanged, a
better performance than the 10,000 loss estimated by 12 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Verizon, meanwhile, announced on July 19 it was lowering
its forecast for FiOS net additions and said it would raise
prices in the second half of the year. Verizon FiOS overlaps
with Cablevision in about 40 percent of its footprint.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  