-- Caesars Loss Is Double Analyst Estimates as Casinos Slow
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-08-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/caesars-loss-is-double-analyst-estimates-as-casinos-slow.html
Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR) , the
largest owner of U.S. casinos, reported a net loss for the
second quarter that was double what analysts estimated after a
writedown in Macau and shrinking results at home.  Caesars’ loss widened to $241.7 million, or $1.93 a share,
from a loss of $155.5 million, or $1.24, a year ago, the Las
Vegas-based company said yesterday in a  statement . Analysts had
 projected  a 96-cent loss, the average of four estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Revenue was little changed at $2.17 billion, also
missing projections of $2.29 billion.  “Results were below our expectations, particularly in Las
Vegas,” said John Kempf, an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in
 New York  who has an underperform rating on the stock. “It’s
clear to us that  Las Vegas  is not immune to economic weakness
being seen in other regional markets.”  Expectations were low given recent monthly reports of
shrinking gambling revenue in Nevada and Atlantic City, New
Jersey, along with individual results from  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  and
 Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  according to Susan Berliner, a JPMorgan
Chase & Co. debt analyst.  “I think the world since April or May has gotten more
difficult,” Gary Loveman, Caesars’ chairman and chief executive
officer, said yesterday on a conference call. “There’s a
trepidation on the part of consumers to spend at the rate they
have historically.”  Revenue declined almost 1 percent at Caesars resorts in Las
Vegas and 8.6 percent in  Atlantic City , the company said.  Caesars fell as much as 4 percent to $8.13 in extended
trading. The stock rose 1.8 percent to $8.47 yesterday at the
close in New York and had fallen 5.9 percent since the company’s
initial public offering in February.  Cash Flow  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization fell to $512.4 million, less than the $565 million
analysts had been expecting. Income from operations decreased 65
percent to $81.8 million, due mainly to a $101 million
impairment charge on a land concession in Macau.  Caesars has $19.9 billion in long-term debt as of June 30,
the result of a 2008 leveraged buyout led by Apollo Global
Management LLC and TPG Capital. They continue to  own  about 70
percent of the company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Loveman announced this year the company would sell some
properties to invest in new jurisdictions and online gambling.  The company announced the sale of Harrah’s St. Louis to
 Penn National Gaming Inc. (PENN)  in May for $610 million. In July,
Caesars was awarded a license with Rock Gaming to operate a
casino in Baltimore under the Harrah’s brand. Opening is
targeted for the second quarter of 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  