-- California Gasoline Surges After Chevron Refinery Fire
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-08-07T22:00:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/california-gasoline-surges-after-chevron-refinery-fire.html
Spot gasoline in California jumped to
the highest level against futures in almost three months after
 Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s Richmond oil refinery, Northern California’s
largest, shut its only crude unit following a fire yesterday.  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in San Francisco
gained 29.5 cents to a premium of 35 cents a gallon against
futures traded on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange at 4:46 p.m.
East Coast time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
the highest level for Carbob in the Bay Area since May 14 and
the largest single-day increase since at least November 2007,
when Bloomberg began compiling spot prices.  “There’s no availability” for the fuel, Bob van der Valk,
a petroleum industry analyst in Terry,  Montana , said in an e-
mailed statement.  Chevron’s 240,000-barrel-a-day refinery shut its No. 4
crude unit after a blaze erupted at about 6:30 p.m. local time
yesterday, Heather Kulp, a Richmond-based spokeswoman for
Chevron, said earlier today. The fire is out and other units are
operating at unknown levels, she said.  “We don’t know how long the crude unit will be down, and
they may have had to shut other refining units as well,”  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston, said in
an electronic message.  Carbob in  Los Angeles  jumped 25.5 cents to a premium of 28
cents a gallon versus futures, also the most since May 14.  California-blend, or CARB, diesel in Los Angeles
strengthened 5.25 cents to 11.5 cents a gallon above Nymex
heating oil futures, the highest level in three months. The same
fuel in San Francisco slipped 0.5 cent to a 10.5-cent-a-gallon
premium versus futures.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland ,  Oregon ,
jumped 14 cents to 15 cents a gallon over Nymex gasoline
futures. Low-sulfur diesel  there  was up 4 cents to 24 cents a
gallon above heating oil futures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  