-- Canada Natural Gas Climbs on Outlook for Warmer U.S. Weather
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2012-08-07T20:20:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/canada-natural-gas-climbs-on-outlook-for-warmer-u-s-weather.html
Canadian natural gas climbed on
forecasts of above-normal temperatures in the U.S. that may
increase power-plant demand and limit inventory gains.  September gas in Alberta  advanced 3.4 percent as MDA
EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg,  Maryland , predicted hotter-
than-normal weather in the central and eastern U.S. from Aug. 17
to Aug. 21. The high in  New York  on Aug. 18 may be 85 degrees
Fahrenheit (29 Celsius), 2 higher than the usual reading,
according to  AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College , Pennsylvania.  “We still see enough demand to limit storage injections to
somewhat below the five-year average rate, maintaining some
underlying fundamental support for prices,”  Tim Evans , an
energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New York, said in
a note to clients today.  Alberta gas for September delivery rose 7.25 cents to
C$2.2375 per gigajoule ($2.13 per million British thermal units)
as of 4:05 p.m. New York time on NGX, a Canadian Internet
market. Gas traded on the exchange is shipped to users in Canada
and the U.S. and priced on  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Alberta system.  Natural gas for September delivery on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  gained 5.6 cents, or 1.9 percent, to settle
at $2.964 per million Btu. The futures have declined 0.8 percent
this year.  Electricity producers account for about 36 percent of U.S.
gas consumption, Energy Department data show.  Gas Volumes  Volume on TransCanada’s  Alberta system , which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 15.8 billion cubic
feet at 3 p.m. New York time.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 1.95 billion cubic feet
at Empress,  Alberta , where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main Line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 2.08 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia system
at Kingsgate was 10 million cubic feet. The system was forecast
to carry 2.008 billion cubic feet today, compared with the
estimated capacity of 2.018 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  