-- Canada June Building Permits Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-08-07T12:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/canada-june-building-permits-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the
June building permits report from  Statistics Canada .  The total value of building permits fell 2.5% to $6.8
billion in June, following a 7.1% increase in May. The decline
was largely the result of a decrease in the non-residential and
residential sectors in Alberta and British Columbia.  Contractors took out $2.5 billion worth of permits in the
non-residential sector, down 12.3%. This decrease followed a
3.6% gain in May. Non-residential construction intentions
declined in six provinces, with Alberta and British Columbia
accounting for most of the decrease.  In the residential sector, the value of permits rose 4.2%
to $4.4 billion in June, a second consecutive monthly increase.
The June advance was mostly attributable to an increase in
Ontario.  Non-residential sector: Institutional component down sharply  The value of institutional building permits dropped 45.9%
to $519 million in June, following a 72.0% gain the previous
month. British Columbia and  Alberta  led the eight provinces that
posted declines. The decrease in British Columbia reflected
lower construction intentions for government buildings, while
Alberta’s decline was mainly the result of lower construction
intentions for medical facilities.  In the industrial component, the value of permits edged
down 0.2% to $476 million in June, following a 17.0% decrease in
May. This decline was attributable to a decrease in industrial
construction intentions in most provinces. Gains in Ontario,
British Columbia, Manitoba and  New Brunswick  were not enough to
offset the declines in the six other provinces.  The value of commercial building permits was $1.5 billion
in June, up 6.8%, following a 12.9% decrease in May. The advance
was largely attributable to construction intentions for
recreational facilities in Ontario. Higher construction
intentions for various types of commercial buildings in  Nova
Scotia , Prince  Edward Island  and Quebec also contributed to the
advance.  Residential sector: Higher intentions for single-family and
multi-family dwellings  Construction intentions for single-family dwellings rose
4.2% to $2.4 billion, a second consecutive monthly increase. The
advance was attributable to higher construction intentions in
five provinces, led by Ontario.  Municipalities issued $1.9 billion worth of building
permits for multi-family dwellings in June, 4.2% more than in
May. The increase was largely the result of higher construction
intentions in five provinces. Ontario posted the largest gain,
well ahead of Quebec and Manitoba.  Nationally, municipalities approved the construction of
19,605 new dwellings, up 4.1% from May. The increase came from
both single-family dwellings, which rose 5.1% to 7,316 units,
and multi-family dwellings, which increased 3.6% to 12,289 units.  Declines in most provinces  The total value of building permits was down in seven
provinces in June, with Alberta and British Columbia posting the
largest declines.  Alberta’s decreases stemmed from lower construction
intentions in both the residential and non-residential sectors.
In British Columbia, the decline resulted from lower
construction intentions for institutional and commercial
buildings and for multi-family dwellings.  Ontario had the largest monthly increase, a result of
growth in the value of building permits for residential and non-
residential construction.  Permits value down in most census metropolitan areas  The total value of permits declined in 22 of the 34 census
metropolitan areas.  Vancouver , Calgary and  Edmonton  experienced the largest
declines. In Vancouver, the decrease was primarily attributable
to construction intentions for institutional buildings and, to a
lesser extent, multi-family dwellings, which had recorded large
increases in May. In Calgary, the decrease resulted from lower
construction intentions for multi-family dwellings and
institutional and commercial buildings. The decline observed in
Edmonton was mainly attributable to lower construction
intentions for institutional buildings and single-family
dwellings.  Toronto posted the largest advance, a result of increases
in construction permits for residential buildings, mainly semi-
detached houses, row houses and single homes, and, to a lesser
extent, for non-residential buildings.  Note to readers  Unless otherwise stated, this release presents seasonally
adjusted data, which facilitates comparisons by removing the
effects of seasonal variations. For more information on seasonal
adjustment, see Seasonal adjustment and identifying economic
trends. ( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/pub/11-010-x/2010003/part -
partie3-eng.htm)  The Building Permits Survey covers 2,400 municipalities
representing 95% of the population. It provides an early
indication of building activity.  The communities representing the other 5% of the population
are very small, and their levels of building activity have
little impact on the total.  The value of planned construction activities shown in this
release excludes engineering projects (for example, waterworks,
sewers or culverts) and land.  For the purpose of this release, the census metropolitan
area of Ottawa-Gatineau (Ontario/ Quebec ) is divided into two
areas: Gatineau part and Ottawa part.  Revision  Data for the current reference month are subject to
revision based on late responses. Data have been revised for the
previous month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  