-- Canada’s Dollar Rises to Strongest in 3 Months on Risk Appetite
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2012-08-07T21:22:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/canadian-dollar-gains-as-australian-growth-outlook-adds-demand.html
Canada’s dollar advanced to the
strongest level in three months against its U.S. counterpart as
risk appetite swelled and stocks and crude oil, the nation’s
biggest export, climbed.  The currency gained versus all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts except the Norwegian krone after a gauge of
Canadian  business spending  increased more than forecast. Federal
 Reserve Bank  of Boston President  Eric Rosengren  called today for
“open-ended” monetary easing, and Germany’s government backed
a European Central Bank bond-buying plan, a spokesman said
yesterday. U.S. employment rose in July, data showed last week.  “Investor sentiment has been boosted by signs of
resilience in the  U.S. economy  and expectations that we could
see a move by the ECB before too long to help take some pressure
off the sovereign bond markets in the  euro zone ,”  Joe Manimbo ,
a market analyst in Washington at Western Union Business
Solutions, a unit of Western Union Co., said in a telephone
interview.  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, appreciated 0.3 percent to
99.70 cents at 5 p.m. in Toronto, and reached 99.63 cents, the
strongest since May 11. One Canadian dollar buys $1.003.  Canadian  government bonds  dropped for a second day, pushing
the benchmark  10-year yield  up nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 1.84 percent. It touched 1.85 percent, the
highest level since June 7. The price of the 2.75 percent
security due in June 2022 fell 87 cents to C$108.13.  Volatility Falls  Implied volatility for one-month options on the U.S. dollar
versus the Canadian currency touched 6.36 percent, after
reaching 6.22 percent on July 20, the lowest level since 2007.
The five-year average is 12 percent. Implied volatility, which
traders quote and use to set option prices, signals the expected
pace of currency swings.  Decreased volatility makes investments of currencies of
nations with higher benchmark  interest rates  more attractive
because there is less risk of market moves erasing profits.  ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s announcement last week that
bank officials are working on the details of a bond-buying plan
helped move volatility lower,  Camilla Sutton , head of currency
strategy at Bank of Nova Scotia in Toronto, said in a telephone
interview.  “It’s just the belief that with tail risk being removed by
central banks, it opens up the door to a risk rally,” Sutton
said. “The key is really volatility, and when volatility is
this low typically we see risk rallies.”  Easing Program  North American stocks rose amid speculation global central
banks will take steps to spur economic expansion. Rosengren said
in a CNBC interview the Fed should pursue an “open-ended”
easing program of “substantial magnitude” to boost growth and
hiring. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  backed a bond-buying
plan announced last week by the ECB to curb the euro bloc’s debt
crisis, a government spokesman said yesterday.  The  S&P 500 Index  advanced 0.5 percent, and the  S&P/TSX
Composite Index (SPTSX) , the benchmark Canadian equities gauge, climbed
1.7 percent.  “There will come a time when investors will want to see a
lot of this hope replaced with actual policy prescriptions from
officials,” Western Union’s Manimbo said. “If we don’t get
that before too long, we could see an unraveling of the latest
risk rally.”  Crude Climbs  Crude oil for September delivery rose for a third day,
gaining as much as 2.4 percent to $94.42, the highest level
since May 15. Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of  raw materials 
advanced 1.1 percent. Raw materials including oil account for
about half of Canada’s export revenue.  “The pickup in crude  oil prices  is also a contributing
factor, so we’re seeing a bid to the commodity markets as well,
that’s also another factor, and we don’t look at any of them in
isolation,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange
at National Bank of Canada in Toronto, said in a phone
interview.  The loonie extended gains as Canada’s Ivey purchasing
managers’ index for July rose to 62.8, the highest since March,
compared with 49 in June, according to the Purchasing Management
Association of Canada. Readings higher than 50 suggest
government and company purchases increased. Economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News forecast a reading of 52.  Canadian building permits fell 2.5 percent in June, less
than forecast, Statistics Canada data showed in Ottawa.
Economists in a Bloomberg survey estimated a 3.9 percent drop.  Payrolls in the U.S., Canada’s biggest trade partner, added
163,000 jobs in July after a revised 64,000 gain in June that
was less than first reported, government data showed on Aug.3.  “We see the Canadian dollar outperform as we see the
markets finding themselves less driven by the headline news and
more by fundamentals,” National Bank’s Spitz said. The currency
may reach 99.50 cents per  U.S. dollar  this week, he said.  The loonie gained 0.4 percent over the past month against
nine developed-nation counterparts monitored by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The U.S. dollar fell 2.1 percent,
while the Australian dollar gained 1.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  