-- Care.com Raises $50 Million in Fifth Round of VC Funding
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-08-07T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/care-com-raises-50-million-in-fifth-round-of-vc-funding.html
Care.com Inc. , a website that helps
consumers find local care providers for children, seniors and
pets, raised $50 million in a new funding round led by
Institutional Venture Partners.  The investment brings the total funding for Care.com to
$111 million, said Sheila Lirio Marcelo, chief executive
officer. Funds will mainly be used for international expansion
and potential acquisitions, she said. The website has been
expanding as more people look online to find caregivers along
with tutoring and housekeeping services.  “We’ve actually got an opportunity to pursue some
fantastic growth areas, leveraging what we’ve done so far and
adding other services,” she said.  Care.com, based in Waltham, Massachusetts, bought Berlin-
based  Besser Betreut GmbH  last month, boosting its presence in
 Europe  and expanding the company’s membership to 7 million
users.  This is the company’s fifth round of funding and included
existing investors Matrix Partners, New Enterprise Associates
Inc. and Trinity Ventures.  “People finding access to good care is a major issue,”
said Sandy Miller, general partner at Institutional Venture
Partners. “Once you move to the level of care, it’s such a
sensitive, personal purchase that you want a way of doing it
that’s more controlled, more trusted, more vetted than you would
if you were buying a toaster.”  The company offers services in more than 15 countries,
including the U.S., Canada and France. Marcelo said the company
could expand to parts of Asia and  Latin America  with the new
funding round.  Care.com makes money from online subscriptions, along with
the fees that service providers pay to be on the website. In
addition, companies that provide off-site services, such as day
care centers, may pay referral fees. The company also has
corporate customers, including  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Facebook Inc. (FB) ,
which offer Care.com as an added benefit for employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  