-- Chevron Refinery Fire Pushes California Gasoline Prices Higher
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n   a n d   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2012-08-07T18:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/chevron-refinery-fire-may-push-california-gasoline-higher-1-.html
A fire at  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s Richmond
oil refinery in California pushed gasoline prices higher today
as it disrupted fuel output at the state’s third-largest crude-
processing plant.  Chevron’s 240,000-barrel-a-day  refinery  shut its only crude
unit after the fire yesterday, Heather Kulp, a Richmond-based
spokeswoman for Chevron, said today. The fire is out, she said,
and the plant is maintaining a small controlled burn at the
crude unit to relieve pressure. Other units are operating at
unknown levels, Kulp said.  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in San Francisco
gained 23 cents to a premium of 28.5 cents a gallon against
futures traded on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange at 12:42 p.m.
East Coast time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
the highest level for Carbob in the  Bay Area  since May 29 and
the largest single-day increase since Bloomberg began compiling
spot prices in November 2007.  “These increases will be passed along to retail pumps at
California and gas stations as far north as  Seattle ,” Bob van der Valk, a petroleum industry analyst in Terry,  Montana , said
in an e-mail. He said  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Cherry Point refinery in
 Washington  took four months to reach full operation after a fire
in February.  No Estimate  Kulp said the refinery doesn’t have a restart estimate for
the No. 4 crude unit, which has a daily throughput capacity of
257,200 barrels a day, according to an Aug. 11, 2011, document
on file with the Bay Area Air Quality Management District.  Other process units at the refinery include a 64,800-
barrel-a-day diesel hydrotreater, a 96,000-barrel-a-day jet
hydrotreater, a 57,600-barrel-a-day naphtha hydrotreater, a
90,000-barrel-a-day fluid catalytic cracker plant and a 60,900-
barrel-a-day isocracker, according to the document.  A vapor leak of hydrocarbons that began in the crude unit
at about 4:15 p.m. local time yesterday increased and ignited at
6:30 p.m., Kulp said in an interview on KQED radio.  Hundreds of people have sought medical treatment for
“minor complaints” since the blaze broke out, Randy Sawyer,
the director of Contra Costa County’s hazardous materials
division, said by telephone from Martinez,  California .  All employees at the refinery have been accounted for, and
three employees were treated on site for minor injuries, Brent Tippen, a  San Ramon , California-based Chevron spokesman, said in
a phone interview today.  Evacuation Report  The plant reported an evacuation after the fire broke out,
a filing with the California Emergency Management Agency shows.  The Contra Costa County health-services department issued a
shelter-in-place advisory for Richmond, North Richmond and San
Pablo because of the fire. The advisory was lifted late
yesterday.  The Richmond plant is about 110 years old, according to
Chevron’s website. Built on a peninsula of low hills rising from
 San Francisco Bay , the refinery became the West Coast’s largest
and most advanced upon its completion in 1902. The refinery
produces gasoline,  jet fuel , diesel, lubricants and other oil
products, according to the company’s website.  Chevron shut a crude unit at Richmond on Nov. 14 after
vacuum residuum, made up of heavy hydrocarbons, leaked from a
bleeder on a filter and “auto ignited,” Chevron said in a
filing to county regulators following that incident. The unit
was returned to service later that same month, two people with
direct knowledge of the plant’s operations said Nov. 29. A crude
unit at the refinery also caught fire in January 2007.  The county’s hazardous materials division was at the
refinery testing air quality after yesterday’s fire, according
to a notice from the county health department. The plant
released sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, hydrogen oxide,
sulfuric acid and nitrogen dioxide because of the fire, the
state filing shows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  