-- Chevron Contains Fire at Crude Unit in California Refinery
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-08-07T06:02:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/chevron-richmond-said-to-shut-equipment-after-fire-in-crude-unit.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX)  said it contained a
fire that broke out in the crude unit at its Richmond refinery,
the largest in Northern California.  The company was bringing down units after a blaze at the
No. 4 crude unit started yesterday around 6:15 p.m. local time,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the operation who
asked not to be identified because the information isn’t public.  Flames were brought under control as of 10:30 p.m. local
time, and all employees at the refinery have been accounted for,
said Melissa Ritchie, a Chevron spokeswoman at the plant. One
person was being treated for minor burns on the wrist, she said.
The plant reported an evacuation after the fire broke out, a
filing with the California Emergency Management Agency shows.  Crews determined there was a diesel leak from a line in
the crude unit that may have started the fire, Ritchie said. She
declined to confirm the definite cause of the incident.  The Contra Costa County health-services department issued a
shelter-in-place advisory for Richmond, North Richmond and San
Pablo because of the fire. The agency recommended that residents
stay inside their homes or the nearest buildings, bring pets
indoors, close doors and windows, and make sure vents and
fireplaces are closed.  The Richmond plant can process 240,000 barrels a day of
feedstock, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The plant is about
110 years old, according to the company’s website. Built on a
peninsula of low hills rising from  San Francisco  Bay, the
refinery became the West Coast’s largest and most-advanced plant
upon its completion in July 1902, according to the website.  Hazardous Materials  The county’s hazardous materials division was at the
refinery to test  air quality , according to a notice from the
health department. The plant released sulfur dioxide, nitrogen
oxide, hydrogen oxide, sulfuric acid and nitrogen dioxide
because of the fire, the state filing shows.  BART, the regional transit system, halted service between
the Richmond station and El Cerrito Plaza, a notice on the
agency’s website shows.  The refinery produces gasoline,  jet fuel , diesel,
lubricants and other oil products, according to the company’s
website. The plant is one of six refineries that make up more
than 75 percent of Chevron’s total refining capacity, the
website shows.  Nov. 14 Incident  The refinery shut a crude unit on Nov. 14 after vacuum
residuum, made up of heavy hydrocarbons, leaked from a bleeder
on a filter and “auto ignited,” Chevron said in a filing to
county regulators following that fire. The unit was returned to
service later that same month, two people with direct knowledge
of the plant’s operations said Nov. 29.  Chevron’s oil refineries and filling stations earned $1.88
billion as U.S. processing margins climbed to a second-quarter
record average of $28.98 a barrel when crude costs fell faster
than gasoline prices.  Chevron’s net income fell to $7.21 billion, or $3.66 a
share, from $7.73 billion, or $3.85, a year earlier, the  San
Ramon , California-based company said in a statement July 27. The
result was 35 cents more than the average of four analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg, which ranged from $3.10 to
$3.47.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  