-- Mortgage REIT Chimera Climbs After Details on Restatement
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-08-07T22:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/chimera-jumps-most-in-more-than-three-years-after-restatement.html
Chimera Investment Corp. (CIM)  rose the
most in almost nine months as the mortgage investor gave details
of a restatement of its results since 2008, saying it plans to
maintain a reduced dividend in the second half this year.  The real estate investment trust run by  Annaly Capital
Management Inc. (NLY)  gained 8.3 percent to $2.36 in New York trading,
the most since Nov. 15. It earlier soared as much as 14 percent,
the largest intraday gain since March 2009. The stock has  lost  8
percent in the past year, assuming reinvested dividends.  The REIT, which invests in U.S. home-loan securities
without government backing, has failed to  report  results since
the third quarter of last year, citing errors in its accounting
for earnings from bonds purchased at discounts. The New York-
based company said in a statement today that revisions to its
net income under generally accepted accounting principles will
lower the figure by $695 million during the affected years, with
interest income falling by $411 million.  “While we are unable to revise our earnings model with
this limited data, we believe our concerns about the ongoing
nature of the enterprise have been addressed,” Merrill Ross, an
analyst at Wunderlich Securities Inc. in Baltimore, wrote today
in a report, upgrading the company to a “hold” from a “sell”
rating.  Annaly, which manages Chimera, is the largest  REIT (BBREMTG)  that
invests in mortgage debt, with about $130 billion of assets and
a concentration on government-backed bonds. The assets of
Chimera, which went public in 2007 and  reached  a high of $19.59
in January 2008, total about $10 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Separately,  American Capital Agency Corp. (AGNC) , the second-
largest mortgage REIT, fell the most since October before
retracing most of the losses.  Dividend Payments  Chimera’s restatement, whose timing the firm said it
couldn’t estimate, won’t change “the company’s previously
reported GAAP or economic book values, actual cash flows,
dividends and taxable income for any previous period,” it said.  Chimera said in a separate statement that it plans to pay a
dividend of 9 cents in the third and fourth quarters, after
lowering the  payout  last quarter from 11 cents. The REITs’
dividends are exceeding its cash earnings, requiring it to
borrow or shrink its holdings for the payouts, and “neither
alternative supports value creation, in our opinion,” Ross
said.  American Capital Agency, which invests in government-backed
mortgage bonds, fell as much as 11 percent, before closing down
3.3 percent at $32.96. The Bethesda, Maryland-based firm has
returned 38.9 percent over the past year, including dividends.  Prepayments Jump  The REIT slumped as data released yesterday showed a jump
in prepayments on low-coupon 30-year mortgage securities that
represent its largest holdings without refinancing protection,
and as those bonds declined today with Treasuries amid better-
than-estimated corporate earnings.  “It’s not that big of a position and those securities are
expected to speed up over time in a low-rate environment,” Gary Kain, the firm’s president, said today in a telephone interview.
The REIT is about 70 percent invested in debt with refinancing
protection that is “performing great” and it’s hedging more
than ever in the past against falling bond prices, he said.  About 6.5 million of the company’s shares changed hands in
the first three minutes after the open of exchanges at 9:30
a.m., more than the stock has traded on average in a full day
this year, according to Bloomberg data. Rapid declines at the
open have sometimes been caused by a block of orders that
triggered a series of stop losses, according to Michael Widner,
an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. Stop losses are orders to
sell when a stock’s value falls to a specified price.  Shares of New York-based Annaly fell about 1 percent to
$16.64. The stock has returned 8.8 percent over the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  