-- China Copper Backwardation May Persist as Imports Fall
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-08T05:43:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/china-copper-market-backwardation-may-persist-as-imports-decline.html
(Corrects name of exchange in second paragraph in story
published yesterday.)  Copper for immediate delivery in
 China  has been more expensive than the metal for future delivery
since May 9, and this price structure may persist as imports
into the world’s largest user slumped.  The so-called backwardation, signaling limited supplies in
the near future, has developed on the  Shanghai  Futures Exchange,
the country’s biggest metals bourse, said Kennedy Zhou, manager
at Shanghai Hedge International Trading Co. China’s  refined
copper imports  in June dropped to the lowest level in 10 months
as demand for the metal shrank.  “Supply has become tight as importers are sitting on the
sidelines now,” Zhou said by phone from Shanghai today. “Given
the fact that Chinese copper prices are cheaper than those in
the overseas market, importers lose 2-3 percent of the value of
every ton of copper they bring in.”  Backwardation occurs when investors who hold short
positions, or bets on lower prices, are forced to pay higher
prices for metal to cover delivery obligations or renew their
bearish bets if less metal is available.  China has cut  interest rates  twice since early June and
lowered the reserve requirement ratio three times since November
to bolster growth, which has slowed to a three-year low of 7.6
percent in the second quarter. Copper for August-delivery in
Shanghai closed at 55,080  yuan  ($8,650) a metric ton today,
while the most-actively traded copper for November delivery
closed at 54,680 yuan a ton.  Inbound shipments were 250,097 tons in June, compared with
301,990 in May, according to the General Administration of
Customs. Exports tumbled to 35,477 tons from 102,375 tons in
May, the highest since at least 2008, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “The backwardation might persist for a while, until the
short-term supply is no longer tight,” said Wu Feng, Shanghai
Rising Industry Co.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  