-- Chrysler Sees ‘Targeted’ Electrification, Executive Says
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-08-07T18:36:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/chrysler-sees-targeted-electrification-executive-says.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the automaker
controlled by  Fiat SpA (F) , plans to make some electric versions of
its vehicles, said Bob Lee, vice president and head of engine
and electrified propulsion engineering.  “We do believe in electrification, sparingly and for the
right kinds of targeted applications,” Lee said today at a
Center for Automotive Research conference in Acme, Michigan.
“We’re developing technology for commercialization, preparing
for the shift when consumers start pulling them into the
marketplace.”  Chrysler has trailed competitors such as  General Motors
Co. (GM) ,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Nissan Motor Co. in introducing
hybrid and electric vehicles.  Sergio Marchionne , chief executive
officer of Chrysler and Fiat, has emphasized opportunities for
boosting the efficiency of traditional gasoline engines as well
as vehicles powered by compressed natural gas.  Chrysler has said it intends to begin production of an
electric Fiat 500 small car later this year and start selling
that model in 2013. The company also has delivered plug-in
hybrid-electric Chrysler Town & Country minivans to
municipalities in  California ,  Arizona ,  North Carolina  and
Michigan, and is evaluating a fleet of plug-in hybrid Ram
pickups.  Separately, LMC Automotive lowered its 2012 estimate for
U.S. light vehicle sales to 14.3 million from 14.5 million,
according to a statement that the researcher released at the
conference. LMC cited “higher economic-driven risk” for its
revisions, which also included cutting its 2013 sales estimate
to 15 million from 15.2 million.  “The growth rate for the remainder of the year is no
longer expected to be as strong, as the economy cools,” Jeff Schuster, Troy, Michigan-based senior vice president of
forecasting for LMC, said in the statement. “We do expect the
North American market to be able to ride out the potential
storm, albeit at a lower level.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Clothier in Acme,  Michigan , at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  