-- Church Attack in Central Nigerian State Kills at Least 17
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o   a n d   G b e n g a   A k i n g b u l e
-- 2012-08-07T17:41:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/church-attack-in-central-nigerian-state-kills-at-least-17.html
Gunmen in  Nigeria  killed 17 people
and wounded at least eight others when they fired on worshipers
at a church in central Kogi state late yesterday, said Alice
Ogedengbe, head of the state’s emergency agency.  No one has claimed responsibility for the attack on the
Deeper Life Bible Church near the town of Okene, Jacob Edi, the
spokesman for Kogi state Governor Idris Wada, said by phone
today from the state capital, Lokoja.  “The situation is very tense” after a bomb was discovered
today in a residential area of Lokoja, 62 kilometers (39 miles)
north of Okene, Ogedengbe said. The police were called in and
the device has been detonated, she said.  The incident is the latest in a spate of gun and bomb
attacks in the mainly Muslim north and central parts of  Africa ’s
top oil producer that have killed hundreds of people since 2009.
Most of the attacks have been claimed by the Boko Haram militant
Islamists, who haven’t before attacked as far south as Okene.  In another incident, gunmen suspected to be Boko Haram
members shot dead a pastor of a Christian church in the
northeastern city of Maiduguri yesterday, Gideon Jibrin, the
Borno state police spokesman, said today by phone from
Maiduguri, the state capital.  Ali Samari, a pastor at the Good News Church in the city,
was followed to his home and killed “by two gunmen suspected to
be Boko Haram,” Jibrin said.  Boko Haram, which means “Western education is a sin,”
wants to impose Islamic rule in Africa’s most populous country
of more than 160 million people. Nigeria is almost evenly split
between a mainly Muslim north and a predominantly Christian
south.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net ;
Gbenga Akingbule in Maiduguri at 
 gakingbule@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  