-- Coal to Drop as Steel Output Slows in BHP Setback: Commodities
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h   a n d   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2012-08-08T12:46:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/coal-to-drop-as-steel-output-slows-in-bhp-setback-commodities.html
Coal used to make steel is set to
drop to the lowest price in two years, eroding earnings at  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , as European demand  wanes  and
 China  shifts supply contracts to  Mongolia  from  Australia .  The contract price may drop 11 percent to $200 a metric ton
in the three months to Dec. 31 from $225 a ton this quarter,
according to seven analysts and industry officials in a
Bloomberg survey. The spot price in China fell 25 percent from
the end of June to $177 yesterday, the lowest this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A deepening debt crisis in the eurozone has dragged down
demand and prices of commodities, forcing the world’s largest
steelmaker  ArcelorMittal (MT)  to shutter or idle plants in the
region. Slowing economic growth in China, the second-biggest
importer of metallurgical coal, has increased chances of output
cuts at mills and further shrinkage in demand for the fuel.  “Steel demand in Europe is very weak and consumption has
slowed dramatically in recent months,” said  Tim Cahill , an
analyst at J&E Davy Holdings Ltd. in Dublin. “It’ll get worse
in the second half as  government spending  slows and banks stop
lending to home buyers. Unless the U.S., Europe, China pump in
serious stimulus, global steel demand will remain subdued.”  Rating Cut  The EU produced 14.73 million tons of steel in June, the
lowest for that month since 2009. Moody’s Investors Service cut
the corporate family rating of  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA) ’s European unit,
which contributes two-thirds of the steelmaker’s output, saying
further signs of weakness in the region’s steel industry will
lead to slower recovery in Tata’s operating and financial
profile. The outlook remains negative,  Alan Greene , senior
credit officer at Moody’s, said today in a report.  Possible higher supplies will also put pressure on prices
after the  BHP Billiton  Mitsubishi Alliance, the world’s biggest
exporter of steelmaking coal, resumed operations last month at
its Queensland mines, pruning the risk of shortages. The venture
supplies about 18 percent of global coking coal, according to a
March 22 Goldman Sachs Australia Pty report.  “If BHP Mitsubishi mines are successful in bringing on
significant output quickly, prices will possibly decline below
$200 a ton,” said Jim Truman, a coal market analyst at Hill &
Associates in Morgantown,  West Virginia . “All steel companies
will benefit and almost all coal miners will lose revenue.”  Lower Earnings  Full-year  profit at BHP , slated to report earnings this
month, may drop 24 percent to $17.9 billion, according to the
average of 20 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Credit
Suisse AG analysts, revising down commodity price forecasts, cut
their full-year profit estimate for BHP by 7 percent, according
to a July 12 note.  Analysts trimmed 2012 profit estimates for Rio on lower
commodity prices and slowing growth. Rio today posted first-half
net income of $5.9 billion, beating the $5.04 billion average of
11 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Kelly Quirke, a Melbourne-based spokeswoman for BHP
Billiton, declined to comment on falling coking coal prices, its
impact on the company or plans to cut output, as did Karen Halbert, a spokeswoman for  Rio Tinto .  About 44 percent of Alpha Natural Resources Inc.’s revenue
last year and more than 10 percent of BHP’s sales in the year
ended June 30, 2011, came from coking coal. The fuel made up
about 10 percent of Anglo American Plc’s revenue last year.  Below $200  Should benchmark prices fall below $200 a ton because of
receding demand in China, the world’s biggest steel producer and
consumer, coking coal suppliers including BHP, Rio Tinto,  Teck
Resources Ltd. (TCK)  and Alpha Natural will start cutting output to
support prices, said Kuni Chen, an analyst with CRT Capital
Group LLC in Stamford, Connecticut.  While spot prices have fallen below $200 a ton for the
first time since August 2010, the drop may not lead to
settlements at these levels in the next quarter, according to
 Doyle Trading Consultants LLC , an energy research firm
specializing in coal.  “When there are major volume commitments at stake,
negotiations are much different than spot market transactions
during periods of very weak demand,” Doyle Trading said in a
July 26 report.  Global steel demand growth is forecast to slow to 3.6
percent this year from 5.6 percent in 2011, according to the
World Steel Association. China may consume 648 million tons of
steel this year, compared with 657 million tons forecast in
March, because of the slowing economy,  Australia’s Bureau of
Resources and Energy Economics  said in a June 27 report.  Wait-and-Watch  “To buy or not buy coking coal now is a million dollar
question, which doesn’t have an easy answer,” said Jayant Acharya, director at  JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL) , India’s third-largest
producer. “The industry is in a wait-and-watch mode. Prices
look weak and may fall further.”  Chinese steelmakers may lower production this month and
next to remain profitable as the slowest economic growth in
three years drags down sales. Immediate-delivery prices of
benchmark hot-rolled steel sheets in China fell to 3,652  yuan  a
ton on Aug. 7, the lowest level since November 2009.  “Steel prices in China are falling faster than raw
material prices, which can lead to closures of some of the high-
cost capacities,” said  Mark Pervan , the head of commodity
research at ANZ Banking Group in Melbourne.  Japan Demand  The slow pick-up in demand in Japan, the biggest coking
coal importer, has further dashed the hopes of miners. Japan’s
crude steel production in the first six months of this year was
little changed from a year earlier at 54 million tons, belying
expectations demand will spurt as Asia’s second-biggest economy
rebuilds itself after the Fukushima nuclear disaster last year.  Contract coking coal prices surged to a record $330 a ton
in the June quarter last year, after heavy rains in Queensland
disrupted output at mines and choked shipments. Prices declined
for four straight quarters after that before climbing back in
the three months started July 1.  As much as 87 percent of the 275 million tons of global
seaborne coking coal trade is distributed among Australia, the
U.S. and Canada, according to  David Radclyffe , managing director
for equity research at Nomura Holdings Inc. in London, giving
suppliers a hold on prices. Australia supplies 57 percent of the
market, he said.  Mongolia is likely to provide the strongest new competition
being next to China and because of the size and quality of its
reserves, Australia’s Bureau of Resources and Energy Economics
said in a July 2 report.  “China benefits from its proximity and availability of
cheaper coal from Mongolia,” said  Helen Lau , a Hong Kong-based
analyst with UOB-Kay Hian Ltd. “Mongolia will continue to
replace Australian coking coal in China.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net ;
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at   jrogers73@bloomberg.net  