-- Cognizant Seeks French, German Takeovers to Profit From Slump
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-08-07T18:58:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/cognizant-seeks-french-german-takeovers-to-profit-from-slump.html
Cognizant Technology Solutions Corp. (CTSH) ,
the U.S.-based provider of consulting and outsourcing, is
weighing acquisitions in France and  Germany  as  Europe ’s debt
crisis creates more demand for services that lower costs.  “We’re doubling down on our investment in Europe,”
President Gordon Coburn said in an interview, without disclosing
a specific spending plan. “We’re seeing the weak economy in
Europe serve as a catalyst for our services.”  Technology companies including billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s
America Movil SAB are seeking assets in Europe, where the
economic slump has lowered valuations and spurred mergers and
acquisitions. Teaneck, New Jersey-based Cognizant, which is
already established in the U.K. and  Switzerland , is expanding in
other countries to have a head start over rivals when the region
returns to economic stability.  “Europe is very attractive to us if we can find the right
valuations,” Chief Financial Officer Karen McLoughlin said in
an interview. “In Germany and France, we’re not as strong as
we’d like to be.”  Cognizant, which had $2.3 billion in cash and short-term
investments and little debt as of June 30, is gaining revenue as
its clients look for savings by outsourcing tasks to  India  and
other lower-cost nations, McLoughlin said. The company raised
its full-year forecast on Aug. 6 after second-quarter profit
beat analyst estimates.  Cognizant rose the most in almost four years in New York on
Aug. 6, gaining 11 percent to $64.21. The shares, down less than
1 percent this year, have 25 buy recommendations, three holds
and one sell in a Bloomberg  survey  of 29 analysts.  Ideal Target  While the ideal target would be a company with $80 million
to $100 million in annual revenue, Cognizant would be prepared
to acquire one with as much as $200 million in sales, McLoughlin
said. Cognizant, which pursues acquisitions that help add
technology, diversify or expand in a new region, will also look
to grow in  Japan  and  South America  in the next five years,
Coburn said.  The company forecast profit of at least $3.38 a share this
year, up from an earlier forecast of at least $3.36. It
maintained its full-year sales projection of at least $7.34
billion.  Cognizant has also been building an emerging-technologies
business focused on data analysis and mobile solutions. The
company’s addressable market doubled in the last three years as
clients sought help outsourcing and managing infrastructure,
Coburn said.  “With many customers where we thought the relationship had
matured, we’re seeing they need to tackle new kinds of
problems,” Coburn said. “They are looking to us to outsource a
larger list of services.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner in New York at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  