-- Columbia University Fraud Suspects Found Guilty by Jury
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-08-08T13:56:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/columbia-university-fraud-suspects-found-guilty-by-jury-1-.html
Four men accused of the theft of more
than $5 million from  New York ’s  Columbia University  were
convicted of all counts against them after a  jury trial ,
Manhattan District Attorney’s Cyrus Vance Jr.’s  office  said.  George Castro, 50, of the Bronx, Walter Stephens Jr., 66,
of  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , Jeremy Dieudonne, 47, of Lawrence,
Massachusetts, and Joseph Pineras, 35, of the Bronx, were
convicted yesterday of grand larceny and other charges after a
two-week trial before New York State Supreme Court Justice
Robert Stolz in Manhattan.  The four men were accused of stealing $5.7 million from the
Ivy League school in October and November 2010 by redirecting
payments from Columbia that were intended for New York
Presbyterian Hospital. Pineras, an accounts payable clerk at
Columbia, was the only defendant who worked for the university.  “Fraud by insiders against an institution dedicated to the
public good is egregious and will be prosecuted vigorously by
this office,” Vance said in a statement. “Like so many cyber
fraud cases my office prosecutes, this scheme was set in motion
by an ’insider,’ who made the larger theft of $5.7 million
possible.”  Redirected Payments  Castro, Dieudonne and Stephens, with the help of Pineras’
access to the school’s vendor payment system, redirected
payments for the hospital into a TD Bank account registered to
IT & Securities Solutions LLC, a company formed by Castro,
Vance’s office said. Stephens was the chief financial officer
and Dieudonne was an executive at IT, prosecutors said.  Castro withdrew more than $800,000 in cash from the account
and spent at least $80,000 on an Audi Q7 and more than $18,000
on products from Apple Inc., prosecutors said.  He sent money to other accounts in Stephens’ name and to
brokerage accounts controlled by himself and Stephens, and sent
payments to a bank account in the name of Dieudonne Partners &
Co., according to the statement.  Castro lost about $400,000 trading on the two accounts,
Vance’s office said.  Castro was arrested in November 2010 outside his home with
$200,000 cash while entering his Audi, prosecutors said.
Stephens was arrested in June 2011, Dieudonne was apprehended in
 Massachusetts  the following month and Pineras was taken into
custody in January.  Sentencing Set  The four men face a maximum of 25 years in prison at
sentencing, which is scheduled for Sept. 24.  The judge asked prosecutors to identify how much of the
$5.7 million has been recovered before the sentencing. Vance’s
office said at the time of Castro’s arrest that at least $4.1
million of the $5.7 million had been identified, frozen or
seized.  Pineras was freed on $5,000 bail after the verdict while
the other three men were remanded to jail pending sentencing,
Vance’s office said.  Attorneys for Castro and Stephens didn’t return telephone
messages seeking comment on the verdict. Dieudonne represented
himself.  Robert Hornsby , a spokesman for Columbia University,
declined to comment in an e-mail.  “I was very disappointed, because, in my opinion, my
client is innocent,” Pineras’ attorney, Robert Anesi, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “There was no corroboration of
the testimony of his former coworker.”  Former Co-Worker  The former coworker at Columbia, Moise Jean-Paul, who
testified against the four men, pleaded guilty to grand larceny
and agreed to cooperate with prosecutors in exchange for a
recommendation of no jail time, Anesi said.  “The question is, whose version of the truth do you
believe?” Anesi said.  Jean-Paul’s attorney, Anthony Martone, didn’t return a
telephone message left at his office seeking comment on his
client. Vance’s office declined to comment on Jean-Paul’s case,
saying information about cooperators isn’t public.  The case is People v. Castro, 11-02922, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 