-- Competition Bureau Cites Concerns About BCE’s Astral Bid
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-08-07T20:57:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/competition-bureau-cites-concerns-about-bce-s-astral-bid.html
Canada’s Competition Bureau said it
is reviewing concerns  BCE Inc. (BCE) ’s bid for  Astral Media Inc. (ACM/A)  will
increase concentration in the broadcasting industry, creating a
potential obstacle to completing the acquisition.  The agency is “aware that a number of serious concerns
have been expressed by market participants related to the effect
that increased concentration and vertical integration in the
broadcasting industry are said to be having on consumers and
other television programming providers,” Competition Bureau
Commissioner  Melanie Aitken  said in a statement posted on its
website.  BCE, which reports second-quarter results tomorrow, agreed
to buy Astral for C$3 billion ($3 billion) in March to acquire
French-language programming in Quebec including music and pay-TV
channels MusiquePlus and Super Ecran. That deal came just three
months after BCE agreed to buy a stake in the Toronto Maple
Leafs hockey team and Toronto Raptors basketball franchise. It
also paid C$3 billion in cash and debt for broadcaster CTV in
2011, which gave it 30 specialty channels.  A website Saynotobell.ca, has been put together by a
coalition of cable competitors,  Cogeco Cable (CCA)  Inc., Eastlink and
 Quebecor Inc. (QBR/B)  to spur opposition to the deal.  “Should the Bureau determine that the proposed transaction
is likely to substantially lessen or prevent competition, we
would not hesitate to take appropriate action,” Aitken said.  Astral fell 1.6 percent today to close at C$48.44 in
Toronto. BCE, based in  Montreal , climbed 1.4 percent to C$43.25,
its highest level since January, 2001.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Theophilos Argitis at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net  