-- Consumer Credit in U.S. Increased Less Than Forecast in June
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-08-07T19:39:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/consumer-credit-in-u-s-increased-less-than-forecast-in-june.html
Consumer borrowing in the U.S. rose
less than forecast in June, restrained by the second decline in
credit-card debt in the last three months.  The $6.5 billion  increase  was the smallest since October
and followed a revised $16.7 billion gain in May that was less
than initially estimated, Federal Reserve figures showed today
in Washington. Economists projected a $10.3 billion rise,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.
Revolving credit, which includes credit card spending, dropped
by $3.7 billion. Non-revolving loans, such as those for college
tuition or auto purchases, climbed $10.2 billion.  Americans may have been trying to obtain school loans
before a possible interest rate increase took place on July 1.
President  Barack Obama  has since signed into law a one-year
extension that maintains the lower rate. The strongest  auto
sales  in four months in June showed some households took
advantage of cheaper borrowing costs.  “If the consumer is willing to borrow, they feel good
about future income prospects,” said  Jonathan Basile , an
economist at Credit Suisse in  New York . “In the last few
months, we’ve seen some unevenness in revolving credit, which
fits with the weakness we saw in retail sales and the downtick
in  consumer spending .”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 30 economists ranged
from gains of $5.5 billion to $15 billion after a previously
reported May increase of $17.1 billion.  Non-Revolving Loans  Non-revolving debt , including educational loans and loans
for motor vehicles and mobile homes, rose in June after a $9.2
billion increase in May, today’s report showed. Cars and light
trucks sold in June at a 14.3 million annual rate, the strongest
in four months, according to Ward’s Automotive Group.  Lending by the federal government, which is mainly for
educational loans, rose by $5.8 billion in June before adjusting
for seasonal variations. Obama last month signed into law a bill
to keep student-loan  interest rates , now at 3.4 percent, from
doubling. The one-year extension on existing rates affects about
7.4 million students, according to the White House.  Revolving debt , which includes credit cards, decreased in
June after rising $7.5 billion a month earlier. The report
doesn’t track debt secured by real estate, such as home equity
lines of credit and home mortgages.  More domestic banks eased lending standards on credit cards
and loans for automobiles, according to a July survey of loan
officers by the Fed.  Lending Standards  “Domestic banks, on balance, continued to report having
eased their lending standards across most loan types over the
past three months,” the Fed said yesterday.  Consumer lending standards for car financing and credit
card loans eased, while standards for other consumer borrowing
were about unchanged, according to the Fed. Banks “reported
stronger demand for auto loans,” and an increase in demand for
credit card loans, the survey showed.  At the same time, the recovery is still being held back by
limited progress in the job market. The  unemployment rate  rose
to 8.3 percent in July, marking the 42nd straight month above 8
percent, Labor Department figures showed Aug. 3. The stretch is
the longest of such elevated levels in the post-World War II
era.  “Economic fundamentals have remained soft,” Jenny Lin,
senior U.S. economist at Ford Motor Co., said on an Aug. 1
conference call with analysts. “Job growth as measured by non-
farm payrolls is modest.”  Consumer spending  in the second quarter rose at a 1.5
percent annual rate, the slowest pace in a year, according to
Commerce Department figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  