-- Cotton Crop in India to Tumble as Dry Weather Hurts Crops
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2012-08-07T12:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/cotton-harvest-in-india-set-to-tumble-as-dry-weather-hurts-crops.html
The cotton harvest in  India , the
world’s second-biggest grower, is poised to decline as the worst
monsoon since 2009 parches fields and curbs planting,
potentially cutting exports for the first time in three years.  The crop in Gujarat, the largest producer, may plunge as
much as 30 percent in the harvest starting Oct. 1 from 12
million bales of 170 kilograms each a year earlier, said
Hasmukhbhai Raval, chairman of the Gujarat State Cooperative
Cotton Federation. The planted area in the state will probably
slump by as much as 25 percent from 3 million hectares (7.4
million acres) in 2011-2012, he said.  Rainfall in some parts of Gujarat is as much as 81 percent
below a 50-year average as more than 50 percent of India is
threatened by drought, shriveling crops from rice to cotton and
oilseeds. A smaller harvest would reduce exports, helping halt a
decline in New York prices, which slumped 23 percent in the past
year as demand slowed in China, the biggest consumer.  “The outlook for the 2013 crop suggests global supply
might be squeezed due to competition for acreage from crops like
soybeans, and the weak monsoon in India,”  Abah Ofon , an analyst
at Standard Chartered Plc, said by e-mail. “Output is being
disincentivised at current  price levels  and we believe global
supply will be lower next year.”  Delayed Planting  Global cotton production in the year that started Aug. 1
will drop to 24.878 million metric tons from a record 26.66
million tons in the year ended July 31, Birkenhead, U.K.-based
industry researcher Cotlook Inc. said July 19.  The August-delivery contract on the Multi Commodity
Exchange of India Ltd. climbed as much as 1 percent to 18,490
rupees ($334) a bale in Mumbai, the highest price since Feb. 6,
before closing 0.3 percent lower at 18,260 rupees. The December-
delivery contract fell 0.7 percent to 75.23 cents a pound on ICE
Futures U.S. in  New York .  The area under cotton nationwide may decline as much as 10
percent as rains were either below-average or delayed in
Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh states, the second and third-
largest producers, said D.K. Nair, secretary general of the
Confederation of Indian Textile Industry.  Planting covered 10.01 million hectares by Aug. 3, from a
record 12.2 million hectares in the 2011-2012 season, according
to the farm ministry. The  harvest  was an all-time high of 34.7
million bales, according to the Cotton Advisory Board.  “Some areas in Gujarat have not received even a drop of
rain,” said Bharat Wala, president of the Saurashtra Ginners
Association. “The window for planting is narrowing day by day
and more planting may not take place.”  Record Exports  The  monsoon , which brings more than 70 percent of India’s
rain, was 17 percent below average since June 1, according to
the  India Meteorological Department . Rainfall is forecast by the
department this year at 85 percent of the average between 1951
and 2000. That would be the least since the 2009 monsoon season
when rainfall was 21.8 percent below average.  A revival in rains in the central and eastern parts of the
country will benefit rice, soybean, cotton and sugar cane crops,
L.S. Rathore, director general of the meteorological department,
said today. Rains may be 96 percent of the average this month, a
level deemed normal, he said.  El Nino weather conditions, which can parch  Asia  and bring
cooler weather to the U.S., may not impact August rain, he said.  Chinese Stockpiles  India’s cotton exports are set to decline next year because
of the slump in global prices and as dry weather cuts yields,
said Kishore Narne, head of research at Mumbai-based AnandRathi
Commodities Ltd.  Exports are estimated at a record 11.5 million bales in the
year ending Sept. 30 from 7.8 million bales the previous year,
according to the state-run Cotton Advisory Board. The nation
briefly banned exports to secure domestic supplies after
shipments surged more than the 8.4 million-bale surplus the
government estimated. The curbs were lifted after protests from
growers, traders and  China .  “Indian exports are likely to be significantly lower in
the new season as the nation struggles with production due to
the reduced monsoon,” said Keith Flury, an analyst at Rabobank
International in  London . “The international demand for cotton
is expected to slip in the new season as the globe’s number one
importer China is forecast to lower shipments as it currently is
sitting on massive stocks.”  Global cotton consumption will be 23.17 million tons in the
year starting Aug. 1, down from 23.53 million projected last
month, the Washington-based International Cotton Advisory
Committee said last week.  India may import 1.5 million bales of cotton this year,
more than double the amount a year earlier, as a shortage in the
local market and a decline in global prices spur purchases, the
textile industry’s Nair said.  “Domestic prices are trading 5 percent to 10 percent
higher than international prices making imports of the fiber
cheaper for mills,” Nair said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  