-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Rise as Euro Stimulus Speculation Builds
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-08-07T21:19:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/credit-swaps-in-u-s-decline-on-euro-area-stimulus-speculation.html
A gauge of U.S. company credit risk
rose for the first time in three days, paring an earlier drop,
as data showed euro-area economies are weakening further,
increasing pressure on policy makers to curb the fiscal turmoil.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
0.6 basis point to a mid-price of 103.4 basis points at 4:41
p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
Contracts tied to  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  and  MGM Resorts
International (MGM)  dropped.  Investors are speculating that European leaders will act to
ease soaring borrowing costs for Spain and  Italy  and preserve
the currency bloc, protecting global balance sheets from
contagion. Data today showed German factory orders declined more
than twice as much as economists forecast in June, while Italy’s
economy contracted for a fourth straight quarter.  “There is definite internal pressure on elected officials,
in  Germany  in particular, over what they may or may not do” to
stem the region’s debt crisis,  John Donaldson , director of
fixed-income at Radnor, Pennsylvania-based Haverford Trust Co.,
said in a telephone interview.  Bond Buying  The index, which typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves, declined to the lowest
since May 8 yesterday after the German government said for the
first time it supports European Central Bank President  Mario
Draghi ’s debt purchasing plan.  The rise today on the benchmark, which reached a 13-week
low yesterday, doesn’t indicate “any material shift in the
corporate market’s positive sentiment,”  Adrian Miller , director
of global markets strategy at GMP Securities LLC in New York,
wrote in an e-mail. “Swap spreads have been trending lower
since late July as euro  risk aversion  has cooled following
expectations of a more aggressive ECB.”  Germany’s Economy Ministry in Berlin said today factory
orders dropped 1.7 percent in June, surpassing the 0.8 percent
decline called for by the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey. Italy’s gross domestic product slipped 0.7 percent in
the second quarter, according to a preliminary report from the
Rome-based national statistics institute Istat today.  The  yield  on Spanish 10-year notes rose 12 basis points to
6.86 percent at 12:04 p.m. in  New York .  Default Rate  The default premium on the Markit CDX North America High
Yield Index, a measure of U.S. speculative-grade corporate debt
risk, slipped 0.9 basis point to a mid-price of 553.8 basis
points at 4:51 p.m. in New York, Bloomberg prices show.  The global default rate for speculative-grade debt will
hold at least 1.7 percentage points below its historical average
this year as high-yield companies withstand economic weakness in
the U.S. and  Europe , according to Moody’s Investors Service.  The ratings company’s trailing 12-month global speculative-
grade default rate was 2.8 percent in July, down from a revised
pace of 2.9 percent in June, New York-based Moody’s said in a
report today. High-yield corporate defaults will end 2012 at a
3.1 percent pace, before slipping to 2.9 percent by July 2013,
according to the report. That compares with a historical average
as of July 10 of 4.8 percent since 1983.  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings increased 0.2 to 147.9.  Chesapeake CDS  The cost to guard against losses on the debt of Chesapeake
declined 2.5 percentage points to 6 percent upfront, down from
8.5 percent yesterday, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market. That’s in addition to 5
percent a year, meaning it would cost $600,000 initially and
$500,000 annually to protect $10 million of Chesapeake’s debt
for five years.  Second-quarter net income at the second largest U.S.
natural gas producer rose 91 percent to $972 million, the
highest quarterly profit in the company’s history, Oklahoma
City-based Chesapeake said in a statement after the close of
equity trading yesterday.  Contracts tied to MGM Resorts declined 2.2 percentage
points to 9 percent upfront, according to CMA, after the largest
casino operator on the  Las Vegas Strip  reported a second-quarter
loss that was smaller than analysts had forecast.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  