-- Croatia Leads Greece, Spain, Turkey in First-Half Tourism Growth
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-08-07T12:48:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/croatia-leads-greece-spain-turkey-in-first-half-tourism-growth.html
Croatia  attracted tourists in the
first six months of the year at a faster rate than  Greece ,
 Spain ,  Turkey  and Malta because its political system is seen as
more stable to visitors, Tourism Minister Veljko Ostojic said.  Tourism arrivals in Croatia grew 5.2 percent from the said
period a year ago, according to the minister. That compares with
2.9 percent in Spain, and declines of 4.6 percent in Greece, 2.3
percent in Turkey and 2 percent in Malta, Ostojic told reporters
in Zagreb today. He cited  United Nations World Tourist
Organization ’s World Tourism Barometer and data from Turkey,
Malta and Spain.  “We can’t avoid the fact that certain events in our rival
countries had a positive influence on Croatian tourism this
year,” Ostojic said. “This year our strategy was also to play
it safe and concentrate on markets more resilient to economic
crisis, such as Germany and  Austria .”  Tourism accounts for one-fifth of the Adriatic Sea nation’s
economy. Croatia, which is set to become the 28th member of the
European Union in July next year, needs to revive the economy
and investment in tourism and the  energy industry  after three
years of recession or stagnation.  About 3.5 million tourists arrived in Croatia in the first
six months, while preliminary figures for July show a 1.6
percent increase on the year to 3 million arrivals, according to
a ministry report. Tourism in Croatia peaks in July and August.  “It also helped that Croatia is a destination reachable by
car, which is convenient to European visitors, and that so far
we’ve had great weather,” Ostojic said.  Revenue from tourism could reach 7 billion euros ($8.7
billion) this year, topping a 6.05 billion euros in 2011,
Ostojic said.  Finance Minister Slavko Linic on Aug. 2 reduced the
country’s 2012 growth forecast to stagnation because of  Europe ’s
crisis. The  World Bank  predicts the Croatian economy will shrink
1 percent in 2012, while the  central bank  on July 9 revised its
forecast to a 1.6 percent contraction from a 1 percent decline
forecast in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  