-- CVS Profit Tops Estimates After Gaining Walgreen Customers
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-08-07T20:21:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/cvs-earnings-top-estimates-after-gaining-walgreen-customers.html
CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS) , the largest
provider of  prescription drugs  in the U.S., reported second-
quarter profit that exceeded analysts’ estimates, helped by
customers it gained from  Walgreen Co. (WAG)   Net income rose 18 percent to $966 million, or 75 cents a
share, from $816 million, or 60 cents, a year earlier, the
Woonsocket, Rhode Island-based company said today in a
statement. Excluding certain items, profit was 81 cents a share,
compared with the 80-cent  average   estimate  of analysts,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  CVS boosted revenue 16 percent after winning customers from
Walgreen, which last year ended a contract to sell prescriptions
through employee benefits manager  Express Scripts Holding Co. (ESRX) 
CVS repeated today it expects to retain at least half of those
customers in the fourth quarter as Walgreen and  Express Scripts 
prepare to renew their agreement, effective Sept. 15.  “We are not that concerned about Walgreen becoming an
overly disruptive force,”  John Heinbockel , an analyst at
Guggenheim Securities LLC in New York, said today in a note to
clients. He rates the shares buy.  CVS estimates it received 6.5 million to 7 million
prescriptions in the second quarter from former Walgreen
customers who had been affiliated with Express Scripts, Chief
Financial Officer Dave Denton said today in an interview. That
amounted to more than 3.5 percent of the total of 176 million
prescriptions filled by the retailer.  Retaining Customers  CVS has retained former Walgreen customers by assigning
pharmacists to contact them and signing them up for Extra Care
discounts, Denton said.  Keeping former Walgreen customers will add about 5 cents to
profit in the third and fourth quarters, CVS said. The company
raised its per-share profit forecast for 2012 to $3.32 to $3.38
from a previous projection of as much as $3.33. The average of
20 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg was $3.34.  CVS  fell  1.7 percent to $44.12 at the close in New York.
The shares have advanced 8.2 percent this year.  Express Scripts manages pharmacy benefit programs for
private employers, unions and government health plans.
Walgreen’s dispute had revolved around reimbursement rates for
88 million prescriptions, or 10 percent of Walgreen’s pharmacy
business.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , CVS and  Rite Aid Corp. (RAD)  had
stepped up marketing to grab Walgreen’s prescription customers
amid the impasse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  