-- Danske Bank Hints at First Post-Crisis Dividend on 2012 Earnings
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-08-07T11:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/danske-bank-hints-at-first-post-crisis-dividend-on-2012-earnings.html
     Aug. 7 (Bloomberg) -- Danske Bank A/S may be able to pay
its first post-crisis dividend on 2012 earnings, Chief Executive
Officer Eivind Kolding said, after Denmark’s biggest lender
delivered profit that beat analyst estimates.  “Dividends, if any, will probably be in the lower end,”
Kolding, who took over as CEO from  Peter Straarup  in February,
said in an interview in Copenhagen today. “Obviously we would
like to pay dividends, but on the other hand we also have some
 capital requirements  that have increased quite a lot, so we have
to balance that; but I’m sure we’ll have a more balanced view on
that after the third quarter.”  Danske is in the middle of a cost-reduction plan that will
result in the loss of 2,000 jobs by the end of next year. The
bank, which is struggling to compete with Scandinavian rivals
such as the region’s biggest,  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , has yet to recover
fully from burst property bubbles in Denmark and Ireland.
While Danske’s return on  shareholders’ equity  improved to 4.7
percent last quarter from 3.8 percent a year earlier, it still
lags behind the 12.5 percent Nordea said last month it achieved
in the three months through June.  Delivering a return on equity that matches competitor
levels “must be our target,” Kolding said. “I don’t think we
can get there in one or two years, but obviously that’s where we
need to be.”  Danske Chairman Ole Andersen said in a March interview the
bank targets paying a dividend some time before 2014.  ‘A Relief’  The bank, which last paid a dividend on its 2007 earnings,
today reported a 27 percent surge in net income that  beat
analyst estimates  by the most since the first quarter of 2010 to
reach 1.5 billion kroner ($250 million). That compares with the
average estimate of 824 million kroner in a Bloomberg survey of
15 analysts. Expenses fell 1 percent to 6.6 billion kroner and
net interest income gained 7.5 percent to 6.2 billion kroner.  “It’s a bit of a relief and a bit of a credibility test”
for Kolding, Mads Thinggaard, an analyst at Nykredit A/S, said
by phone. “It’s the second report for Kolding and confirms that
Danske Bank is on the right path to a rebound.”  Danske Bank’s shares gained as much as 7.1 percent before
trading at 95.10 kroner at 1:17 p.m. local time. The stock has
advanced 30 percent this year, trouncing a 0.6 percent gain in
the Bloomberg index of European banks and insurers.  Danske will shut down as many as 70 branches in  Denmark 
this year, Kolding said at a press conference today. Danske Bank
plans to unveil an overhaul of its strategy including its
dividend and branch policies when it reports third-quarter
results.  Danske also plans to raise customer rates “soon,”
Kolding said.  Struggling Banks  Danish banks are struggling to maintain their interest
margins to counter the effect of central bank rates below zero.
Nationalbanken Governor Nils Bernstein on July 5 lowered the
official deposit rate by a quarter of a percentage point to
minus 0.2 percent to fight a capital influx and defend the
krone’s peg to the euro.  A 25 basis point rate cut translates into an annual net
loss of about 800 million kroner for Danske Bank, Kolding said.  Danske’s core Tier 1 equity ratio -- a measure of capital
strength -- was 12.1 percent of the bank’s risk-weighted assets
at the end of the second quarter, compared with 12.3 percent a
year earlier, the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  