-- Defaulting Sovereigns Risk Second Restructuring, Moody’s Says
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2012-08-07T09:36:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/defaulting-sovereigns-risk-second-restructuring-moody-s-says.html
Nations that undergo distressed debt
exchanges risk defaulting a second time, Moody’s Investors
Service said in a report that may presage challenges facing
 Greece .  Of 30 sovereign distressed exchanges since 1997, more than
a third were followed by another default event, according to
Moody’s. Losses to investors ranged from 5 percent to 95 percent
with a mean of 47 percent, New York-based Moody’s said.  “When the initial debt exchanges were small in relation
total debt, they were followed by further exchanges of private
or official debt, even when the haircuts in the initial exchange
were large,” said Elena Duggar, group credit officer at Moody’s
in  London . That’s “why ratings often remain low, in the Caa to
C rating range, following distressed exchanges,” she said.  Greece, the country at the nexus of Europe’s debt crisis,
this week met with international lenders to release the next
batch of bailout funds after implementing the largest debt
exchange in history, according to Moody’s. While politicians
including  Norbert Barthle , Germany’s parliamentary budget
spokesman, have said Greece may need further writedowns, the
idea isn’t currently under discussion.  Moody’s rates Greece C, its lowest grade.  Debt Exchange  Greece’s debt exchange in March affected $273 billion of
borrowings, according to Moody’s. By April, about 194 billion
euros, or 73 percent, of Greece’s residual 266 billion euros of
debt was held by the  European Central Bank , euro-area
governments and the  International Monetary Fund , according to
the Greek Debt Management Office in  Athens .  The rate of sovereign re-default after a distressed
exchange is similar to the rate among corporate borrowers,
according to Moody’s.  The majority, 67 percent, of sovereign defaults since 1997
started as missed payments, and another 29 percent began as
distressed exchanges, involving the offer of a new package of
lower value than the original, according to Moody’s.  Maturity extensions were more common in sovereign defaults
than were principal haircuts, according to Moody’s. Greece
adopted both tactics in its restructuring. The largest nominal
writedowns were 66 percent in the Argentinean debt exchange in
February 2005, 65 percent in Ecuador’s buyback in May 2009, and
Greece’s 53.5 percent.  “It was rare that defaults were resolved quickly and in
one round,” Duggar wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  