-- Deutsche Telekom Gets U.S. Relief as Rivals Cut Subsidies
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i
-- 2012-08-08T14:38:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/deutsche-telekom-gets-u-s-relief-as-rivals-curb-phone-subsidies.html
T-Mobile USA  has suffered a
continuing exodus of subscribers in the past year as it slashed
handset subsidies to boost profitability. Now, moves by Verizon
Wireless and AT&T Ltd. to do the same are giving the  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE)  unit reprieve.  The two market leaders, under pressure to increase  profit
margins , have started to scale back offers of cheap upgrades to
devices such as Apple Inc.’s iPhone, bringing their approach in
line with T-Mobile’s. That, along with cost reductions following
a failed deal with AT&T, helped the fourth-largest U.S. carrier
improve earnings in the second quarter, said a person familiar
with the matter, asking not to be identified because the details
are confidential.  “We seem to be entering a new phase in the U.S. market,”
said Leon Cappaert, who manages 400 million euros ($497 million)
at KBC Asset Management in Brussels including shares of Bonn-
based Deutsche Telekom. “Margin pressure in the sector is
diminishing significantly, and that may mean a positive surprise
on the margins for T-Mobile.”  T-Mobile USA probably lost 346,200 contract customers last
quarter, after ceding 510,000 users in the preceding three
months, a Bloomberg survey of analysts shows. As Deutsche
Telekom Chief Executive Officer  Rene Obermann  prepares to
announce second-quarter earnings tomorrow, the U.S. business
needs more than a respite after its $39 billion sale to AT&T
failed last year because of regulatory opposition.  Starbucks Veteran  The division faces the challenges of finding a permanent
chief, increasing its clout with local partnerships and building
a faster wireless network to catch up with competitors.  T-Mobile USA has been run by former  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) 
executive Jim Alling on an interim basis since Philipp Humm left
as CEO in June to join  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)   Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization
and some items probably rose 7.5 percent to 959 million euros at
the U.S. unit last quarter from a year earlier, according to the
average of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. T-Mobile
USA probably also benefited from the slowing customer losses and
a stronger dollar.  Shares of Deutsche Telekom climbed 6 percent this year
through yesterday, while the Bloomberg Europe Telecommunication
Services Index, which has 23 members, was down 0.8 percent. The
stock slipped 0.5 percent to 9.35 euros as of 4:33 p.m. in
 Frankfurt .  $30 Upgrade  AT&T fell 0.9 percent to $37.12 in  New York .  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) , which owns 55 percent of  Verizon Wireless ,
dropped 0.8 percent to $44.12.  Deutsche Telekom may say its adjusted second-quarter Ebitda
slid 2.4 percent to 4.58 billion euros,  analysts  predict. That
would bring it more than half way to meeting its full-year
target of 18 billion euros in Ebitda.  Philipp Kornstaedt, a Deutsche Telekom spokesman, declined
to comment on earnings before tomorrow’s release.  Seeking to lessen handset costs, AT&T this year doubled the
upgrade fee for existing customers who want a new phone to $36
and lengthened the time users need to wait before they can
receive subsidies. Verizon in April imposed a $30 levy on all
customers buying new smartphones, while  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) 
charges $18 fee plus an additional $10 monthly smartphone
charge.  T-Mobile USA’s costs from handset subsidies fell 42 percent
in the first quarter to $310 million after the company rolled
out a lower-subsidy tariff structure.  U.S. Options  Offering smartphones takes a toll on  profit margins  because
carriers typically sell them at a loss to get customers to sign
two-year contracts. Users of devices such as the  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
iPhone are lucrative in the long run because they spend money
more each month to surf the Web, send e-mail and watch videos.  Deutsche Telekom has explored options to combine the U.S.
unit with local rivals, including  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS) ,
people familiar with the situation have said. It’s seeking to
bolster its wireless coverage by adding frequencies from
Verizon. It’s also closing in on a sale of its tower assets to
help finance network expansion, people familiar with the matter
have said.  To compete with the iPhone offered by all larger rivals, T-
Mobile USA has embraced manufacturers that offer handsets
running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system. It has
championed  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , describing itself as the
largest U.S. provider of Samsung Galaxy S class devices.  Call Centers  The subsidy curbs and a lull in iPhone sales for rivals
probably also helped slow an outflow of contract customers, who
tend to spend more on call and data services than prepaid users.
Even as customer defections slowed, the projected second-quarter
user losses would mean T-Mobile USA has lost 9.5 percent of its
contract customer base over the last two years.  To offset the resulting lower sales, the company shuttered
seven out of 24 call centers and announced cutting a total 2,800
jobs. The erosion of its client base may put pressure on T-
Mobile USA not only to seek additional ways to reduce expenses,
but also to compromise on its low-cost strategy.  Benjamin Black, co-founder of software maker Boundary Inc.
and a T-Mobile USA customer for ten years, said the monthly cost
for his 5-gigabyte data plan increased to $35 from $30 over the
recent months. Still, he said he keeps T-Mobile USA in addition
to his AT&T contract because its “reasonably cheap phones” are
convenient for his international travels.  While T-Mobile USA is now benefiting from rivals mimicking
its lower-subsidy strategy, its success going forward also is at
its competitors’ mercy. Apple is preparing to introduce the next
version of its top-selling iPhone on Sept. 12, two people with
knowledge of the company’s plans said last month. Operators
deciding to go back to higher subsidies in a bid to win market
share would again increase pressure on the carrier, KBC’s
Cappaert said.  “T-Mobile is probably in the worst position among all U.S.
players even if the overall market is getting better,” he said.
“Are subsidy cuts sustainable? It only works if everybody
agrees to it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Chaykowski in New York at 
 kchaykowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  