-- Drought Curbs Tourism as Boat Docks Stand on Dry Ground in Texas
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 2012-08-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/drought-curbs-tourism-as-boat-docks-stand-on-dry-ground-in-texas.html
Matt Nicotra held his metal measuring
stick aloft as he waded into  Colorado ’s  Bear Creek , high in the
Rockies. He charted how a rainstorm affected this South Platte
River tributary, which for most of the spring and summer ran six
times below its historical median.  “This is actually, with the rain we had, normal flow,”
said Nicotra, a hydrologic technician with the  U.S. Geological
Survey . “We were running between five and eight cubic feet per
second. Now we’re running at 50 cubic feet per second.”  A week later, water flow fell to 25 cubic feet per second,
half of the median daily volume, according to the USGS. More
major rivers start in Colorado’s  Rocky Mountains  than in any
other U.S. state, feeding a  $155 million  commercial rafting
business. Yet many tributaries that rely on meltwater from
snowpack -- measured in June at 2 percent of average -- are
running dry, reducing some rafting companies to half their
typical tourist offerings.  Beyond Colorado, the economic impact of the country’s most
widespread drought in 56 years is trickling down to businesses
that rely on fishermen in  Montana , boaters in  Texas  and
paddlewheel riverboat enthusiasts on the  Mississippi , and
threatening the lucrative hunting season in South Dakota and
 Kansas  that starts as early as next month for certain species.  Record temperatures in Colorado fueled last month’s  Waldo
Canyon  blaze -- the most destructive wildfire in state history -
- shutting down  Manitou Springs , a 142-year-old resort town at
the base of Pikes Peak, for a day and causing restaurants and
businesses to lose $2.3 million because of the perception the
town was closed longer.  Occupancy Rates  Hotel occupancy rates plunged to 30 percent in July and
tourists canceled reservations into September. Eleven companies
may not survive the winter, said Roger Miller, chief operating
officer of  iManitou , a collaboration of the Manitou Chamber of
Commerce, Visitors Bureau and Office of  Economic Development   “We lost the top two weeks of the year as far as revenue
generation,” Miller said.  “People now are coming in on day
trips and not making the high-level retail purchases long-term
vacationers do. A number of our larger businesses had to lay
people off.”  In Texas, restaurants and outfitters on the northwest side
of Lake Travis watched profits dry up as the water receded,
leaving docks standing on dry ground. For businesses that reap
$112 million a year from the 65-mile-long (105-kilometer) lake,
revenue drops when the water level falls below 660 feet, a 2011
 report  found. The  lake level  yesterday was 639 feet.  Pheasant Hunters  Pheasant hunters in Kansas are wary that increasing demand
for hay will deprive birds of a place to weather the winter, and
reduce cover for hunters, putting at risk the $300 million  South
Dakota  collects each year through hunting licenses, hotel
reservations and sales receipts from sporting goods stores.  Wetlands in the state’s southeast that are frequented by
dozens of species of waterfowl are “bone dry,” according to
the Nature Conservancy. Enthusiasts warn that thousands of
birders and hunters who flock to the  Cheyenne Bottoms Wildlife
Area  may stay away because there won’t be anything to see or
shoot.  Meteorologists say the drought, categorized as “extreme”
and “exceptional” in parts of the Midwest and the Great Plains
by the latest U.S. Drought Monitor  map , isn’t expected to ease
anytime soon, even as monsoon rains bring temporary relief to
some areas.  “Things were looking good in February and then in the
summer, with the heat, the drought expanded and exploded,” said
David Miskus, a meteorologist with the  National Weather
Service ’s  Climate Prediction Center . “Right now, no models are
showing a prolonged wet spell through October, making it likely
it will stay the same, or expand somewhat.”  Bad News  The forecast is bad news for recreational outfitters in
Steamboat Springs, Colorado, who watched their summer tubing
business -- floating down a river on an inner tube -- dry up
just as they were coming off a slow winter ski season. Many
companies that depend on the water in the state were already
reeling from the summer 2011 season, when water in rivers ran at
record highs, causing many tourists to shy away.  “On June 20, 2011, our flow was 4,000 cubic feet per
second, this year on June 20, it was 40 cubic feet per second,”
said Pete Van De Carr, who owns  Backdoor Sports . “We missed
three weeks in late June and early July this year, including the
two biggest weekends of our season.”  Van De Carr, who said he’s been in business since 1986 on
the banks of the Yampa River, estimated his revenue is down 70
percent this year from 2010, when water was at more normal
levels.  Stream Flow  Stream flow  in Colorado in early July was below normal at
more than 80 percent of USGS long-term monitoring stations, with
record low flows recorded at 23 stations, according to a report
compiled by the agency. No one knows the effects of low rivers
better than Bill Dvorak, who started running rafts down the
Arkansas River in 1969.  “I operate on nine different rivers; this year, I can only
operate on four,” said Dvorak, whose  Dvorak Expeditions  is
based in Nathrop, Colorado, about 120 miles southwest of Denver.
“I hired fewer staff this year knowing we would be more
limited.”  Those who make their living on the water in Texas say that
their business is also suffering. In Jonestown, about 25 miles
northwest of Austin, Ron Sherrill said he typically fixes about
200 boats in a season at  Sandy Creek Boat Repair  on Lake Travis.
This year, he expects 100.  “This is as bad as I’ve seen it in the 26 years I’ve been
here,” said Sherrill. Wealthy residents who own second homes on
the lake are keeping his company afloat, he said. “Our boat
ramp hasn’t been in the water now for over a year.”  Rising Temperatures  Across the Midwest, parks and wildlife managers are keeping
an eye on river temperatures. As water warms, it holds less
oxygen, putting stress on coldwater fish such as trout. Rivers
and streams in Western Colorado approached the low 70s many days
this summer -- almost 20 degrees above normal -- prompting
rangers to ask that anglers voluntarily suspended fishing in
some areas.  Parks officials in Montana instituted “hoot-owl closures”
on three rivers, prohibiting fishing from 2 p.m. to midnight as
drought reduced flow and warmed the water, said Ron Aasheim, a
spokesman for  Montana Fish, Wildlife & Parks .  On the lower  Mississippi River , the  American Queen
Steamboat Co.  is monitoring water levels at the port of
Vicksburg, about 200 miles north of  New Orleans , where the water
level yesterday was about  four feet , according to the National
Weather Service. The company’s paddlewheelers need about 10 feet
of water to operate, said Tim Rubacky, a senior vice president.  Dredge Channel  “Vicksburg is a concern, they’re trying to move heaven and
earth to dredge the channel to nine feet,” Rubacky said. “This
is the lowest the Mississippi has been in 20 to 30 years.”  In Kansas, wildlands managers are predicting up to 30
species of shore birds migrating from  Canada  to  South America 
will bypass wetlands in the center of the state that are defying
their name.  “We have absolutely no surface water -- it’s bone dry out
here -- so unless something changes drastically, you’re not
going to see much as far as bird species,” said Robert Penner,
avian programs manager for the Nature Conservancy at  Cheyenne
Bottoms , a wildlife area which is about 100 miles northwest of
Wichita.  “We have people from all over the country come to Cheyenne
Bottoms in the fall to hunt,” he added. “That’s going to have
an impact on the local community.”  Summer Heat  Pheasant watchers in South Dakota are hopeful a mild winter
and early spring gave the birds an early start on hatching and
rearing chicks before the summer heat. The drought could still
affect birds and hunters, however, by depriving them of cover,
said Dave Nomsen, vice president of government affairs at  St.
Paul , Minnesota-based  Pheasants Forever , a habitat conservation
organization.  “A lot of forage is drying up, or burning up, or being
baled,” he added. “We’re very concerned.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Jennifer Oldham in Denver
at 
 Joldham1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 Jtaylor48@bloomberg.net ; 