-- DSM to Cut 1,000 Jobs as Chief Strives to Meet Profit Goals
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-08-07T10:12:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/dsm-to-cut-1-000-jobs-as-chief-strives-to-meet-profit-goals-1-.html
Royal DSM NV (DSM) , the world’s largest
maker of vitamins, will cut 1,000 jobs across  Europe  as Chief
Executive Officer Feike Sijbesma strives to meet profit goals.  Cutting more than 4 percent of the workforce will help
boost profit by 150 million euros ($185 million), Sijbesma and
Chief Financial Officer Rolf-Dieter Schwalb said on a call. DSM,
based in Heerlen, the Netherlands, fell as much as 5 percent to
39.14 euros after highlighting increased doubt over the strength
of Europe’s economies.  “The program comes a bit too late,” said Fabian Smeets,
an analyst at ING, adding coatings company Akzo Nobel is halfway
through with its restructuring program by now.  DSM is suffering from competition in  China  and lower prices
in caprolactam, one of its last commodity businesses that
remains an integral part of its polymers operation. Sijbesma has
steered DSM away from commodities into enzymes and nutritional
ingredients. Aggressive pricing by new entrants to the
caprolactam market and higher benzene costs are weighing on
margins, yet the business remains strategic for DSM and won’t be
sold, Schwalb said in an interview.  Shares of DSM traded 39.44 euros as of 11:06 a.m. in
Amsterdam.  Outlook Dims  The global outlook for the second half has become more
clouded, in part because of Europe’s failure to find a cure for
the lingering debt crisis, Sijbesma said. The region will bear
the brunt of the job cuts, with 400 positions to be slashed in
the Netherlands, he said.  “We cannot ignore the fact that the economy is not
improving, it is rather the opposite,” Schwalb said. “The
cost-reduction program is designed to support the targets.”  The program was essential for DSM as it seeks to make a
2013  earnings target  of 1.4 billion euros to 1.6 billion euros.
DSM will spend about 125 million euros as it carries out the
overhaul over the next 18 months. Schwalb said there’s scope for
added improvements beyond the initial target.  “From prior programs, we’re well known for over-
delivering,” the CFO said in an interview. Any additional
potential for boosting profit would be detailed at a later date,
he said.  The vitamin maker, which expanded in baby-food ingredients
with the purchase of Martek, reported a 14 percent decline in
second-quarter earnings before interest, taxes, amortization and
depreciation from continuing operations to 290 million euros.
Analysts predicted 292 million euros, according to the average
of 10 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales were little changed
at 2.27 billion euros.  Nutrition Disappointment  “Underlying, results were very disappointing. We knew
Performance Materials and Polymer Intermediates were facing
headwinds, but the 2 percent organic growth at Nutrition,
despite having Martek now over a year, clearly is a negative
surprise,” said Smeets, who has a hold-rating on DSM.  Polymer intermediates, which make raw materials for
synthetic fibers and plastics, weighed on results. Caprolactam,
used in carpets and clothing, cut profit by 70 million euros.  DSM’s expansion into Omega 3-oil supplements, through the
acquisition of Ocean Nutrition for $529 million, and into
synthetic protein-based materials used in medical implants with
the purchase earlier this year of Kensey Nash helped bolster
profit. The company retains 1.9 billion euros in cash and
continues to look for additional purchases, Sijbesma said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  