-- Duke Board Member Called Johnson ‘Threat’ Before Merger
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-08-07T18:36:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/duke-board-member-called-johnson-threat-before-merger.html
A  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  board member
raised concerns about  Bill Johnson ’s “arrogance” and said he
was a “threat” to the company’s $17.8 billion takeover of
Progress Energy Inc. before the deal was announced.  “There is a certain arrogance in his take it or leave it
view of the deal with him as CEO or the deal is bad and they
don’t do it!” Dan DiMicco, Duke board member and Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer of steelmaker  Nucor Corp. (NUE) , wrote in a
Nov. 21, 2010 e-mail. “I know I was the only one that really
does see Bill as a threat” to the deal’s success.  DiMicco and the other board members voted 10-5 on July 2 to
remove Progress CEO Johnson, who was supposed to lead the
combined company under the Jan. 10, 2011 merger agreement. As
the 18-month merger review dragged on, friction emerged between
the companies, with  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Duke blaming
Progress for the departure of two female executives and Johnson
suggesting he wasn’t getting messages from the board.  The North Carolina Utilities Commission and state attorney
general are investigating the surprise decision to replace Johnson
with Duke Chairman and CEO Jim Rogers hours after the deal
closed on July 2. Duke supplied the e-mails today as part of
hundreds of pages of documents responding to a July 12 order
from state regulators and a request from the attorney general.  Rogers and Lead Director Ann Maynard Gray last month
testified to the commission that the board lost confidence in
Johnson as CEO in part because of his leadership style. Johnson
told the commission he was fired after Duke had “buyer’s
remorse” about the deal and sought to abandon it.  ‘Disheartening Conversations’  Joyce Fitzpatrick, a spokeswoman for Johnson, didn’t
immediately return a phone call seeking comment on the Duke
documents.  Rogers told Gray in a May 15 e-mail that two female
executives, Gianna Manes and Catherine E. Heigel, left Duke
“after disheartening conversations with their new bosses from
Progress.”  Both women “expressed deep concern about whether they
would be valued in the new organization,” Rogers wrote.  The departure of Manes “suggests some concerns we talked
about at meeting,” William Barnet III, another board member,
said in a March 1 e-mail to Rogers and Gray.  In an April 29 e-mail to Gray, Rogers asked the board to
meet with Johnson the following week. “He apparently didn’t
think I was truly carrying messages from the board,” Rogers
wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  