-- Durbin Calls $6.6 Billion Visa Swipe-Fee Accord Bad Deal
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-08-07T20:15:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/durbin-calls-6-6-billion-visa-swipe-fee-accord-bad-deal.html
U.S. Senator  Richard Durbin , who won
federal limits on debit-card swipe fees, said merchants should
“think hard” before signing a $6.6 billion settlement with
 Visa Inc. (V) ,  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  and banks over credit-card fees.  “This is a stunning giveaway to Visa and MasterCard,”
Durbin, the Senate’s second-ranking Democrat, said in remarks
last week, according to the  Congressional Record . “This is a
bad deal, but it is not a done deal. The merchant plaintiffs
still have to decide if they will support it.”  Visa and MasterCard, the world’s biggest payment networks,
and some of the largest banks agreed to the settlement last
month after a seven-year legal battle. The accord, which
requires a judge’s consent, also includes a temporary reduction
in so-called credit-card swipe fees, or  interchange , and allows
retailers to impose surcharges on such transactions. The fees
average about 2 percent of the purchase price and generate more
than $40 billion a year for U.S. banks.  “It gives Visa and MasterCard free rein to carry on their
anti-competitive swipe-fee system with no real constraints and
no legal accountability,” said Durbin, of  Illinois . “This is
not a settlement I would agree to. I hope that the remaining
merchant plaintiffs will review the proposed settlement
carefully and think hard about whether it will be good for the
future of our credit- and debit-card systems.”  Antitrust Law  The settlement may be nullified if enough merchants refuse
to join. Visa, MasterCard and the banks can terminate the accord
if the retailers who opt out account for more than 25 percent of
the U.S. credit-card spending processed by the two networks from
Jan. 1, 2004, through the month the accord is approved by the
court, according to a memorandum of understanding.  MasterCard fell 0.8 percent to $416.40 in  New York  trading,
the worst performance today in the 71-company Standard & Poor’s
500 Information Technology Index. Visa was third-worst, sliding
0.5 percent.  Durbin pushed to include debit-card limits in the 2010
Dodd-Frank Act, and the  Federal Reserve  last year capped those
fees at about half the average that retailers had paid
previously, costing banks about $8 billion in annual revenue.  U.S. Representative  Barney Frank , the Massachusetts
Democrat and co-author of the legislation who sought to undo the
debit limits, said he supported the settlement.  “A free-market approach in this area will be better for
the economy and all concerned parties,” he said in a July 19
 statement .  ‘Very Challenging’  Supporters of additional interchange legislation may
struggle to win enough backing in Congress, which approved Dodd-
Frank when Democrats controlled both chambers. Republicans, most
of whom opposed the price caps, seized control of the House
after the 2010 election and 54 senators led by Jon Tester, a
Montana Democrat, voted last year to delay the implementation of
Durbin’s debit rules. The measure required 60 votes for passage.  “It’s highly possible Senator Durbin will introduce credit
interchange legislation in next year’s Congress, though it will
be very challenging to gain broad-based support,”  Jason Kupferberg , a Jefferies & Co. analyst who covers Visa and
MasterCard, said in a July 20 research note. “Some of the class
plaintiffs could opt out of the settlement and initiate new
lawsuits.”  Peter Larkin, chief executive officer of the National
Grocers Association, which opposes the settlement, said his
group plans to push for more legislation.  ‘Complex Dispute’  “It’s hard to predict what Congress will do and won’t
do,” Larkin said in a July 27 interview. “It would be our
intention to continue to talk to Congress because we think we
need to achieve further reforms.”  Erica Harvill, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Visa,
declined to comment, as did James Issokson at Purchase, New
York-based MasterCard.  “The long business-to-business conflict over these fees is
finally over and settled by the legal process,” said Trish Wexler, a spokeswoman for the Electronic Payments Coalition, a
trade group that represents payment networks and banks. “The
legal system was and is the appropriate system to resolve a
large and complex dispute between companies, not  Washington .”  Visa’s share of the settlement filed in federal court in
 Brooklyn , New York, is about $4.4 billion and MasterCard is
responsible for $790 million, the firms have said.  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , the second-biggest U.S. credit-card lender, said
last week that it will contribute $738 million, most of which
already had been deposited into Visa’s litigation escrow fund.  ‘Very Confident’  The dispute began in 2005, a year before MasterCard’s
 initial public offering  and three years ahead of Visa’s.
Merchants alleged the companies violated antitrust law by fixing
the swipe fees. The case had been set for trial in September
before U.S. District Judge John Gleeson in Brooklyn. The parties
have until Sept. 21 to agree on the details of the settlement
and merchants will have 180 days after the accord is approved to
decide whether to opt out.  “We are very confident that the court is going to approve
this settlement,” Josh Floum, Visa’s legal chief, said in a
July 25 conference call after the company reported fiscal third-
quarter results. “This case has been pending for seven years,
and during a great deal of that time, there has been a court-
ordered mediation process with two mediators and the involvement
of the court.”  The settlement includes cash payments of $6.05 billion and
$525 million. The larger amount would be reduced if some
plaintiffs don’t agree to participate. The accord also provides
for a 10-basis-point reduction in interchange fees for eight
months, valued at about $1.2 billion if all merchants in the
proposed class approve, according to plaintiffs’ law firms
including Robins Kaplan Miller & Ciresi LLP.  ‘Detrimental Conduct’  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer, and
Minneapolis-based  Target Corp. (TGT) , the second-biggest U.S. discount
chain, criticized the settlement last month. Wal-Mart urged all
merchants to reject it.  “The proposed settlement would require merchants to
broadly waive their rights to take action against the credit-
card networks for detrimental conduct or acts,” Bentonville,
Arkansas-based Wal-Mart said in a July 24 statement.  Target said the accord would “perpetuate a broken
system,” according to a July 20 statement on its  website .  Merchant groups including the National Association of
Convenience Stores have said they won’t participate in the
settlement, saying the agreement offers too much to Visa and
MasterCard and is unfair to retailers. The National Community
Pharmacists Association also said it will reject the accord.  The case is In re Payment Card Interchange Fee and Merchant
Discount Antitrust Litigation, 05-md-01720, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  