-- The Tea Party’s Plan to Cripple Congress
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-08-07T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/the-tea-party-s-plan-to-cripple-congress.html
Wave goodbye to members of the U.S.
House of Representatives.  Doing nothing  has taken a lot out of
them, so they have left Washington for five weeks of rest,
relaxation and campaigning in the hope that voters will return
them to office to do more of the same.  This is especially the case for the large Tea Party
contingent among the several score first-term Republicans. They
set out to change Washington but settled for simply paralyzing
it.  They repealed Obama’s health-care law  33 times  but didn’t
change one word of its 2,700 or so pages. They stopped the Grand
Bargain over the debt and deficit even at the cost of exposing
Speaker  John Boehner  as a scaredy cat. They haven’t been able to
curb the excesses of Wall Street, keep the debt ceiling from
rising, or end government subsidies to NPR or Amtrak -- but by
God, they can bring the capital to its knees. Nearly everyone
hates Congress (well,  about 80 percent  of Americans do) yet the
Tea Party -- fortified by Sarah Palin, Senator  Jim DeMint  and
the Club for Growth -- is  about to do  for the Senate what it did
to the House.  Look at what has happened so far in the Republican
primaries: Only the purest, most virginal conservatives are
being chosen as the party’s standard bearers in November.  No Bipartisanship  Last week, former Texas Solicitor General  Ted Cruz , who
alerted reporters that he was visiting a Chick-fil-A the day
before the election,  overwhelmed  Lieutenant Governor David Dewhurst, the veteran establishment candidate, to win the
nomination to replace retiring Senator  Kay Bailey Hutchison .
Dewhurst’s sins? He was Governor  Rick Perry ’s right-hand man and
an occasional sponsor of bipartisan legislation. The most
effective ad against Dewhurst accused him of being a moderate.  Three months ago conservative Indiana State Treasurer
 Richard Mourdock  beat six-term incumbent Senator  Richard Lugar ,
 the compromiser  who’d forgotten his roots. Nebraska State
Senator (and rancher) Deb Fischer beat Attorney General Jon Bruning in Nebraska in an upset to go up against  Bob Kerrey , the
former governor and senator, on Election Day.  Each victor campaigned against Washington insiders who had
impermissible contact with the enemy. Nominating your most
conservative candidate in the primary is more satisfying than
letting another weak one get in. And if these candidates do get
elected, inactivity is preferable to approving legislation that
even contemplates the possibility that any American could get so
much as a food stamp he is not entitled to.  Take Connecticut, the Yankee bastion of village squares and
town-hall meetings. In the race to replace retiring Senator  Joe Lieberman , the purist wing of the Republican Party prefers
entrepreneur  Linda McMahon , who has never run anything but a
soft-porn wrestling empire, over former Representative Chris Shays, who was close to former Speaker  Newt Gingrich . Reaching
across the aisle from time to time -- he voted for campaign-
finance reform, for instance -- helped lead to Shays’s defeat in
2008.  At the time, the loss left the House without a single
Republican from New England. McMahon first ran for Senate in
2010, when her primary victory over former Representative Rob Simmons, a respected moderate with two Bronze Stars, essentially
ceded the race to the Democrats. Now, despite losing to  Richard Blumenthal  two years ago, McMahon is getting a second chance.  She won the party endorsement in May, but Shays managed to
scrape together enough votes to challenge her for the
nomination. The primary election is next Tuesday. It will take a
miracle for Shays to defeat a self-funded candidate blanketing
the state with softly lit ads that present McMahon as a job
creator. Airbrushed out is the fact that she got wealthy in part
by making professional wrestling even more vulgar. To the play-
acting in the ring, she added storylines involving  necrophilia 
and intrafamily violence starring her husband, Vince, and
daughter, Stephanie.  Too Hot  All in all, it’s the type of program that used to get you
investigated by Congress -- not welcomed to it. The House looked
into World Wrestling Entertainment after one wrestler killed his
family and hanged himself in 2007, leaving a stash of steroids
behind, because of  concern that  WWE had not taken adequate steps
to address the use of drugs.  This is what the Grand Old Party has come to, as other
primaries in Wisconsin and Missouri threaten to reward
insurgents. In Connecticut,  a poll  in June shows McMahon leading
Shays, 59 percent to 30 percent. If McMahon and a few other
candidates win in November, Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  could become majority leader but actually lose power:
Boehner, his weakened counterpart in the lower chamber, doesn’t
lead his troops so much as try to keep from being run over by
them.  The Senate, as George Washington is  supposed to have told 
 Thomas Jefferson , was designed in part to calm the tempers and
passions of the House, just as a saucer is used to cool off hot
tea. If the saucer itself is scalding, then the whole brew will
be too hot to sip.  (Margaret Carlson is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how to fight the  Haqqani
terrorist network  and on why  German bailout fears  are overblown;
Clive Crook on why  debt forgiveness still makes sense ;  Edward
Glaeser  on why  parking lots for public housing  make everyone
poorer;  Peter Orszag  on the beauty of  Build America Bonds ; Meir
Javedanfar on the price of chicken and  economic hardship in
Iran ; Caleb Scharf on clues to the  behavior of black holes .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Margaret Carlson  at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 