-- Health Risks From Cell Phones Needs Review, U.S. GAO Says
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-08-07T18:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/health-risks-from-cell-phones-needs-review-u-s-gao-says.html
The U.S. should reassess standards
for  radiation exposure  from mobile phones, the Government
Accountability Office said in a report that found federal
guidelines lagging behind international standards.  Limits set in 1996 by the Federal Communications Commission
may not reflect recent research on radio-frequency energy from
phones, and testing requirements may not identify maximum
exposure in all usage conditions, the agency said in  a July 24
study  released today. The FCC doesn’t test for devices carried
against the body, a practice that may lead to exposure that
exceeds the FCC’s limit, the GAO said.  “With mobile phones in the pockets and purses of millions
of Americans, we need a full understanding of the long-term
impact of mobile phone use on the human body,” Representative
 Edward Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat, said today in an e-
mailed statement.  The FCC under Chairman  Julius Genachowski , a Democrat, said
June 15 it’s planning to review the standards. The FCC’s planned
study “has the potential to address and even expand on the
recommendations in the GAO report to thoroughly review” rules,
Julius Knapp, chief of the agency’s Office of Engineering and
Technology, said in a July 6 comment to the GAO that was
published as part of the report.  ‘Conservative Standards’  Research hasn’t demonstrated adverse human-health effects
of exposure to radio-frequency energy from using mobile phones,
the GAO, the investigative arm of Congress, said in the study
posted on its website.  “The U.S. has among the most conservative standards in the
world,” Neil Grace, an FCC spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement. The FCC will seek comments from experts including
federal health agencies, Grace said.  The GAO report was requested by congressional Democrats,
who said the FCC should change its requirements to reflect
current research. The FCC relies on guidance from federal health
and safety agencies that haven’t called for revised exposure
limits, and the FCC hasn’t formally asked the agencies for a
reassessment, according to the GAO report.  A mobile phone, like any transmission device, emits radio-
frequency, or RF, energy, Markey and fellow Democratic
Representatives  Henry Waxman  and  Anna Eshoo , both of  California ,
said in a news release.  At high levels, such as those used in X-rays, RF energy can
heat biological tissues and cause damage, the Democrats said.  286 Million  Mobile phones don’t operate at a level high enough to cause
heating, the Democrats said. Questions remain about whether RF
energy emitted by mobile phones could cause other health issues,
such as cancer, the lawmakers said.  The U.S. has about 286 million mobile phone subscribers,
including an increasing number of children, and it’s “vitally
important” that the FCC update its testing requirements, the
lawmakers said in the statement.  CTIA-The Wireless Association, a Washington-based trade
group, welcomed further review of the standards,  John Walls , a
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  “The FCC has been vigilant in its oversight in this area
and has set safety standards to make sure that radio-frequency
fields from wireless phones remain at what it has determined are
safe levels,” Walls said.  CTIA members include  Verizon Wireless ,  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Sprint
Nextel Corp. (S)  and T-Mobile USA Inc., the U.S. unit of Bonn-based
 Deutsche Telekom AG. (DTE)  Spokesmen for all four companies referred
queries to the wireless association.  Behind Science  “The  United States  is behind on the science,” Devra Lee
Davis, founder of the Teton County, Wyoming-based Environmental
Health Trust, said in an interview. “There’s been this dogmatic
belief that there cannot be an effect.”  FCC standards assess compliance with energy exposure limits
when devices are held against the ear or carried in holsters,
the GAO said. Using a mobile phone in a pocket while using an
ear piece could lead to exposure that exceeds the FCC limits,
the GAO said.  “These devices are not going to go away but we’ve got to
be smarter about using them,” said Davis, a former professor of
epidemiology at the  University of Pittsburgh . “Do not keep your
phone in the front pocket when it’s on.”  Children receive more exposure than adults, Davis said.  “We need to do a better job of vetting things before we
conduct wholesale experiments on our children and
grandchildren,” Davis said.  Brain Tumors  There are concerns that radio-frequency energy from phones
held close to the head may affect the brain and other tissues,
 according to  the  National Cancer Institute  of the U.S. National
Institutes of Health. Studies of cells, animals and humans
haven’t produced evidence that radio-frequency energy can cause
cancer, the cancer institute said on its website.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  found  no evidence 
linking wireless phone use to heightened risk of brain tumors,
according to its website. The agency examined a 2010 World
Health Organization study and a separate program by the NIH
cancer unit that found no increase in  brain cancer  as phone use
increased.  Wireless devices emit energy when used, and the closer the
device is to the body the more energy a person absorbs, the FCC
said. People can reduce exposure by using a speaker phone or
earpiece and increasing the distance between the device and the
body, the FCC said, without endorsing the need for such
measures.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   recommends  that iPhone users carry the device at
least 5/8 inch (1.5 centimeters) from their bodies to keep
exposure below the maximum levels. The iPhone meets FCC and
European Union exposure guidelines, the Cupertino, California-
based company said in a manual for the iPhone4s.  San Francisco city officials in 2010 required that stores
post the level of radio waves emitted by each mobile phone they
sell.  CTIA-The Wireless Association challenged the requirement in
court, saying it would  mislead  consumers about a safe product.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  