-- Hedge Funds Trailed Stocks Last Month With 0.2% Advance
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-08-07T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/hedge-funds-trailed-stocks-last-month-with-0-2-advance.html
Hedge funds including MKP Capital
Management LLC posted gains last month as global stocks rallied
after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged to
defend the euro.  Funds climbed 0.2 percent in July, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Global  macro (BBHFMCRO)  funds advanced while long-
short equity and  multistrategy (BBHFMLTI)  managers declined.  John Paulson ,
the billionaire coming off record losses in 2011, posted
declines in his Advantage funds.  Hedge funds trailed stocks as the  MSCI All-Country World
Index (MXWD)  returned 1.4 percent last month on speculation the ECB
would buy bonds to help cut borrowing costs and save the euro.
Macro funds, which bet on economic trends, rose 0.2 percent in
July and are down 2.4 percent this year, as government
intervention and declining trading volumes limit managers’
ability to make large bets.  Louis Bacon  told clients he’s giving
back about 25 percent of the money in his main fund.  “People are in that cautious watch-and-don’t-do-anything
mode,” Emma Sugarman, global head of capital introduction at
BNP Paribas SA in  New York , said of hedge-fund managers. “We
had some pretty intense intra-month volatility.”  Hedge funds advanced 1.9 percent in the first seven months
of the year, compared with a 7.5 percent gain for equities
worldwide, including dividends.  MKP Opportunity  MKP, the $4.9 billion New York-based firm, climbed 1.4
percent in July in its MKP Opportunity fund, bringing this
year’s gain to 4.7 percent, according to a person with knowledge
of the matter, who asked not to be identified because the
information isn’t public. The fund has $2.5 billion in assets
and is run by Patrick McMahon. Konstantin Shishkin, a spokesman
for MKP Capital, declined to comment on the returns.  Long-short equity funds, whose managers can bet on rising
and falling stocks, decreased 0.2 percent last month and 3.5
percent in 2012.  “During the month of July, what hurt long-short equity
managers was low net exposure,” said Don Steinbrugge, managing
partner of Agecroft Partners LLC, a Richmond, Virginia-based
firm that advises hedge funds and investors. Net exposure is
calculated by subtracting the percentage of a hedge fund’s short
positions, or bets on falling securities, from its long
holdings, or wagers on rising stocks.  Kingdon Capital Management LLC, the $2.5 billion hedge fund
run by  Mark Kingdon  in New York, posted a 0.6 percent decline
last month in Class A Series 1 shares of M. Kingdon Offshore
Ltd., a global long-short equity fund, reducing its year-to-date
gain to 5.5 percent, according to a client letter, a copy which
was obtained by Bloomberg News.  Patrick Clifford , a spokesman
for Kingdon Capital, declined to comment on the returns.  Paulson’s Declines  Multistrategy hedge funds fell 0.2 percent last month and
4.1 percent this year.  Paulson posted declines in his Recovery funds last month,
while his merger-arbitrage, credit and gold funds rose.  The Advantage Plus Fund, which seeks to profit from
corporate events such as takeovers and bankruptcies and uses
leverage to amplify returns, fell 2 percent in July and 18
percent this year, New York-based Paulson & Co. said yesterday
in a letter to clients. Event-driven managers bet on companies
facing mergers, spinoffs and bankruptcies. Paulson’s Gold Fund,
which can buy derivatives and other gold-related investments,
rose 0.2 percent in July and has decreased 23 percent this year.
Slumping gold-mining stocks have contributed to the strategies’
drops this year.  Merger Fund  The firm’s merger arbitrage, credit and recovery funds,
which comprise more than 60 percent of the firm’s $21 billion in
assets, rose this year on the firm’s “long event positions,”
Paulson wrote.  The Paulson Partners Enhanced fund, which invests in the
shares of companies involved in mergers, rose 1.3 percent last
month and 5.4 percent this year.  Paulson’s Credit Opportunities Fund increased 0.9 in July
and 3.8 percent this year. The fund jumped 590 percent in 2007,
largely because of Paulson’s bets against the U.S. subprime
mortgage market.  Paulson’s Recovery Fund, which invests in assets Paulson
believes will benefit from a long-term economic rebound, such as
financial services, insurance, hotels and real estate companies,
fell 0.8 percent in July and gained 3.9 percent in the first
seven months of 2012.  The main Bloomberg hedge fund index is weighted by market
capitalization and tracks 2,786 funds, 1,214 of which have
reported returns for July. The index is down 12 percent from its
July 2007 peak.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  