-- Legal & General Sees Growth by Smaller Acquisitions, CEO Says
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-08-07T08:58:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/legal-general-sees-growth-by-smaller-acquisitions-ceo-says.html
Legal & General Group Plc (LGEN) , the
fourth-biggest British insurer, will consider making smaller
acquisitions to expand its investment management and savings
business.  “The balance sheet is incredibly strong, there’s lots of
assets for sale,” Chief Executive Officer Nigel Wilson said on
a call with reporters. “We’ll still retain our financial and
strategic discipline and do lots of build-buy analysis, but
there will be lots of opportunities to accelerate our growth
through bolt-on acquisitions.”  Legal & General is the best performer in the nine-member
 FTSE ASX Life Insurance Index (FALIFE)  this year, rising 28 percent after
avoiding investments in European sovereign debt and profiting
from an increase in sales of U.K. fee-based savings products.
The company has earmarked Legal & General Investment Management
for growth because of its U.S. presence and technical expertise
in matching assets and liabilities for pension funds.  “We’d like to make LGIM a bigger part of what we do, and
that may involve adding to its portfolio” through purchases,
Wilson said. The firm may also add to its non-life insurance
unit and its digital savings technology, he said.  Legal & General spent about 250 million pounds ($390
million) to 300 million pounds on acquiring Suffolk Life, which
specializes in self-invested personal pensions, and Nationwide
Unit Trust Managers during the tenure of previous CEO Tim Breedon. Wilson, 55, took over from Breedon in June.  ‘Huge’ Cash  The insurer, which is the biggest investor in the U.K.
stock market with 381 billion pounds of assets, would also like
to allocate more cash in Britain should the government provide a
more certain fiscal and regulatory environment, Wilson said.  “L&G as a group would be willing to invest much more in
the U.K. if there was greater certainty and economic confidence
in the performance of the U.K.,” he said. “Corporates in
particular have a huge amount of cash to invest, and we’d really
like to see more encouragement.”  Legal & General’s first-half profit rose 5 percent on sales
of income protection and annuity products, the company reported
today. Operating profit climbed to 518 million pounds in the six
months to June 30, beating the 500 million-pound median
 prediction  of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The firm increased its first-half dividend 18 percent to
1.96 pence a share. That beat the analysts’ median estimate of
1.88 pence. Net income rose 14 percent to 406 million pounds in
the period.  Since 2007, the company has tripled the cash it generates
by cutting costs, reducing commissions paid to sales advisers
and withdrawing money-losing products.  The stock  dropped 2.2 percent to 128.6 pence at 9:23 a.m.
in London trading, valuing the firm at about 7.6 billion pounds.
It closed at a four-month high yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 