-- Megaupload Home Raid Queried as ‘Over the Top’ By Police
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-08-07T08:33:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/megaupload-com-founder-dotcom-wins-n-z-warrant-dispute.html
A  New Zealand  police officer
overseeing plans for a raid on the home of Kim Dotcom, the
Megaupload.com website founder, questioned whether the use of
helicopters was “over the top,” according to court testimony.  Dotcom, accused of orchestrating the biggest copyright
infringement conspiracy in U.S. history, is attempting to prove
the Jan. 20 search and seizure of his property were
unreasonable. He is seeking recovery of computers and hard
drives that were taken by police.  The officer’s comments are in notes for a review of the
plan to use two helicopters, two SWAT-like special tactical
group squads and five other teams of body-armored police with
assault rifles to execute the warrant on a fraud charge,
according to Paul Davison, one of Dotcom’s lawyers arguing the
case in Auckland  High Court .  The New Zealand officer wrote: “over the top -- Fraud?”
according to Davison. The officer approved the raid and his
bosses signed off on the decision, as did the commissioner of
police, according to court testimony.  Helen Winkelmann , the chief justice of the High Court of
New Zealand, overseeing the case, banned the publication of the
names of the officers involved.  The police officer, who led the raid and was responsible
for finding Dotcom in the house, testified it was the first time
to his knowledge that the tactical team was deployed to exercise
a search warrant on a fraud charge.  ‘Mega Conspiracy’  Dotcom, 38, was indicted in what U.S. prosecutors dubbed a
“Mega Conspiracy,” accusing his file-sharing website of
generating more than $175 million in criminal proceeds from the
exchange of pirated film, music, book and software files. He
faces as long as 20 years in prison for each of the racketeering
and money-laundering charges in the indictment, with the U.S.
seeking his extradition for a trial in  Virginia .  New Zealand police acted on information from the FBI in the
U.S., whose agents were also involved in the raid, that Dotcom
had the capability to delete information from servers around the
world and may have had a safe room in the home and access to
firearms, the officer leading the raid testified.  Earlier today, Dotcom testified there was no such thing as
a “doomsday switch.”  “I’m a marketing guy,” Dotcom said. He didn’t even have
passwords to access data on the servers, which were located in
the U.S.,  Canada  and  Netherlands , he said.  German-born Dotcom, who legally changed his name from Kim
Schmitz, was arrested at his residence and spent four weeks in
jail before being released to await the extradition hearing.  $25 Million Mansion  Dotcom testified today he was beaten by police, although he
didn’t resist arrest and waited with his hands raised.  The Dotcom mansion is valued at NZ$30 million ($25
million), according to an article on the stuff.co.nz website.
The property is also known as the “Chrisco mansion,” because
it was built by the founders of a Christmas hamper company of
the same name.  Winkelmann had ruled June 28 that police had relied on
illegal warrants that were overly broad.  An extradition hearing is scheduled for March.  “We don’t have access to data that would allow us to
prepare for the extradition hearing,” Dotcom testified.  Davison said police reports justifying the use of the
tactical team to carry out the raid had a “raft of misleading
information” including that Dotcom had threatened to kill or
injure people and that using regular police would put officers
in harm’s way.  “Do you know of anything that would justify an affirmative
answer” to those questions, Davison asked the officer in charge
of the raid.  “No sir,” the officer replied.  Unknown Response  The decision to approve the tactical raid was based on the
unknown response officers would get at the home, Dotcom’s use of
former police officers and military for security, concern that
Dotcom would barricade himself in the home and that he would
destroy evidence needed to prosecute him in the U.S., the
officer said.  The raid on his home was unnecessary, Dotcom said. Police
would have been allowed access had they knocked on the door, or
they could have arrested him 90 minutes earlier as he was
leaving a recording studio, Dotcom testified.  Instead, the luxury home was damaged during the raid, with
glass doors smashed and Dotcom beaten and kicked during the
arrest, he said.  “Our beautiful home was turned into a haunted house,”
Dotcom told the judge. “Life is not the same after what
happened.”  The case is between Kim Dotcom and Attorney-General. Civ
2012-404-1928. High Court of New Zealand (Auckland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  