-- Heineken May Need to Raise APB Bid Amid Thai Pressure
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-08-08T07:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/heineken-may-need-to-raise-apb-offer-as-thais-increase-pressure.html
Heineken NV (HEIA)  may need to raise its bid
for the rest of  Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd. (APB)  or risk having an
agitator as a minority investor in the Tiger beer maker after a
company linked to a Thai billionaire offered a higher price.  Kindest Place Groups, owned by  Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi ’s
son-in-law, yesterday offered to buy a 7.3 percent stake in the
Singapore-based company from Fraser & Neave Ltd. for S$55 a
share. That topped the S$50 a share that Heineken, which already
owns 42 percent of APB, offered F&N for a 40 percent holding, a
proposal that was recommended by F&N’s board.  Heineken  fell 2.4 percent  in Amsterdam trading yesterday on
concern it may have to pay more to gain full control of what it
deems to be a key emerging-market asset. The Dutch company, the
world’s third-largest brewer, is seeking to expand in faster-
growing regions such as south-east  Asia  amid weak  consumer
spending  in the developed markets of  Europe  and the U.S.  “It’s likely Heineken will have to increase its bid,”
said Olivier Nicolai, an analyst at UBS AG in London.  F&N (FNN) ’s
shareholders may reject Heineken’s offer at an extraordinary
meeting due to be held in six to eight weeks’ time, and “might
realize someone else is prepared to pay them a bit more.”  Spurred Into Action  Asia Pacific Breweries  surged  as much as 6.9 percent to
S$52.20 today before trading at S$51.85 as of 2:52 p.m. local
time. F&N rose 2.7 percent to S$8.50. Heineken shares gained 0.4
percent to 44.55 euros at 9:01 a.m. in Amsterdam.  Kindest Place is offering to buy the 7.3 percent stake in
APB that is held by Singapore-based F&N outside of a joint
venture through which F&N and Heineken own about 65 percent of
the Tiger beer maker. Heineken, whose links to APB date back to
1931, owns about 9.5 percent of the company directly.  F&N shares are rising because “the market, whether rightly
or wrongly, may anticipate a higher offer for the APB stake,”
said Goh Han Peng, an analyst at DMG & Partners Securities.  Heineken was spurred to make an offer for APB last month
after Charoen’s Thai Beverage Pcl bid for a 22 percent stake in
F&N, which would give it a seat on F&N’s board. Kindest Place
also offered to buy about a 9 percent stake in APB. The moves
would potentially have infringed on the Dutch company’s
influence over its brewing operations with APB, which has rights
to brew Bintang beer in  Indonesia , Anchor in  China ,  Southeast
Asia  and  Sri Lanka , and Heineken from China to  New Zealand .  Thai Bev (THBEV)  shares were unchanged at 33 Singapore cents today.  ‘Compelling Value’  Heineken said Kindest Place’s bid for the smaller stake is
“not comparable” to its offer. Heineken’s bid for the APB
shares it doesn’t own, including a mandatory tender offer to
shareholders excluding F&N, would total as much as S$7.7
billion, whereas Kindest Place would pay about S$1 billion.  “Heineken continues to believe that the Heineken offer
represents compelling value for F&N’s and APB’s shareholders,”
it said. “Heineken continues its discussions with F&N.”  Vichate Tantiwanich, a senior vice president at Thai Bev,
said by phone that he couldn’t comment on Kindest Place’s bid.  Heineken, which accounts for about 8.8 percent of the
global beer market, has the smallest emerging-markets presence
of the world’s big three brewers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. About 37 percent of its  operating income  came from
western Europe last year, the data show.  Total beer volume in Asia and  Latin America  is set to
increase at a compound annual rate of 6 percent from 2012 to
2016, investment bank Nomura estimates, compared with a 1
percent decline in Europe and no growth in  North America .  ‘Very Lucrative Business’  “Heineken must now raise its bid, or else risk its Asian
strategy being in tatters,” Eddy Hargreaves, an analyst at
Canaccord Genuity Ltd., said in an e-mail.  The Dutch brewer also could work alongside Thai Bev and
Kindest Place, or the Thai companies may bid for full control of
F&N to gain control of its APB stake, Nicolai at UBS said.  “The Heineken brand is 30 percent of APB’s volume and is a
key growth and profit driver, so Thai Bev/Kindest probably want
to work with Heineken” in Asia, he wrote in a note.  Sirivadhanabhakdi is set to benefit whatever happens. Born
and raised in Bangkok’s Chinatown district, he started a trading
business that supplied distilleries and became a distiller after
being awarded concessions to produce liquor in  Thailand . He bid
for the rights to operate distilleries under the Sang Som Group
during a liberalization of the nation’s liquor industry, before
expanding into beer, alcohol, sugar, and packaging businesses.  “Thai Bev is a winner both ways,” Jenai Chua, a
Singapore-based analyst at Bank Julius Baer, which manages $281
billion in assets, said ahead of yesterday’s announcement. “If
the APB sale goes through, they can still make a pretty big
disposal gain should F&N decide to distribute proceeds of the
sale to shareholders as a dividend. If it doesn’t go through,
they get a chunk of a very lucrative beer business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  