-- Elan Shares Drop After Alzheimer’s Drug Development Halted
-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 2012-08-07T16:25:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/elan-shares-drop-after-alzheimer-s-drug-development-halted-1-.html
Elan Corp. (ELN)  fell to the lowest price
since December in Dublin trading after the company’s partners
ended most plans to develop an Alzheimer’s drug following a
second failure in a clinical trial.  Elan will take a charge of $117.3 million this quarter,
writing down to zero the value of its venture with  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ)  to develop the drug, bapineuzumab, the Dublin-based
company said in a statement yesterday. Now that J&J and Pfizer
Inc. are ending most work on the treatment, Elan will have “a
significant reduction in spending” through the end of 2013, the
company said.  The apparent end of bapineuzumab may mean Elan considers
selling itself, said  Michael Yee , an analyst at  RBC Capital
Markets . Bapineuzumab, designed to attack the brain plaques that
serve as a hallmark of Alzheimer’s, failed to improve symptoms
of dementia in the second of four final-stage trials of the
drug, Pfizer and J&J said yesterday in statements.  “This is clearly disappointing for both investors and the
research field,”  Corey Davis , an analyst at Jefferies & Co. in
 New York , wrote in a report.  Elan fell 8.7 percent 8.43 euros at the close of trading in
Dublin, the lowest price since Dec. 2, giving the company a
market value of 4.99 billion euros ($6.2 billion). The stock has
declined 21 percent this year, compared with a 12 percent
increase for the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  Tysabri Focus  “We are tremendously disappointed for patients and their
caregivers who are suffering from Alzheimer’s and our employees
who have dedicated many years to advancing this technology with
the goal of creating a meaningful therapy to combat this
challenging disease,” Elan Chief Executive Officer Kelly Martin
said in the statement.  Elan will focus on Tysabri, the multiple-sclerosis drug it
markets with Biogen Idec Inc., keeping costs down and
strengthening the company financially, he said.  Elan may consider selling itself, possibly to Biogen,
because the company doesn’t have a permanent CEO, and because
it’s shown in the past it’s willing to consider a deal, Yee
wrote in a report to clients. Martin had planned to step down by
May 1 this year, but the board asked him to stay until the trial
results were published. The company in 2009 hired Citigroup Inc.
to help it review strategic options.  Buying Elan would give Biogen full ownership of Tysabri and
would add to the Weston, Massachusetts-based company’s earnings,
Yee wrote.  Eli Lilly  In addition to focusing on revenue growth through Tysabri,
Elan will work to strengthen its balance sheet and capital
structure while reducing overall financial risk, said Jonathan Birt, a spokesman for the company at FTI Consulting. He declined
to comment on the possibility of a sale.  “At the present time, there is no discussion about
changing the CEO of Elan,” Birt said.  In the Pfizer-J&J trial, bapineuzumab didn’t help patients
who don’t have a gene called ApoE4 that boosts the risk of
getting the disease. New York-based  Pfizer (PFE)  announced on July 23
that a final-stage study of the product failed in patients with
the ApoE4 gene.  Until the bapineuzumab trials were stopped, Pfizer, Elan
and J&J were competing with Indianapolis-based  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) 
to create the first therapy to target a cause for Alzheimer’s,
rather than just its symptoms. Trial results for the Lilly
therapy, solanezumab, are due soon.  “It would be very surprising at this point if Lilly’s
solanezumab is successful,” Jefferies’ Davis wrote. “And if
we’re right, we are still many, many years away from any new
approved drug for Alzheimer’s patients, unfortunately.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  