-- Electricity Use Seen Overstating China Economic Slowdown
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-08T05:42:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/electricity-use-seen-overstating-china-economic-slowdown.html
A stagnation in electricity output
that fanned speculation China’s  slowdown  is intensifying may
instead be evidence of an accelerated transition to a more
services-based economy.  The government will release information on July electricity
production tomorrow as part of its report on  industrial output .
Power generation in June was unchanged from a year earlier even
as industrial production rose 9.5 percent. Heavy industries
including metals and cement consume about 60 percent of
electricity and account for 20 percent of gross domestic product,
according to GK Dragonomics, a Beijing-based consultant.  The shifts signal that  electricity’s  relevance as an
economic indicator is receding five years after  Li Keqiang , now
the vice premier, was quoted as saying he watched data on power,
rail cargo and loans because GDP numbers were “man-made.” An
evolution within manufacturing to more efficient production is
also damping electricity use as China upgrades its factories.  “Steel plants, cement plants and refinery facilities --
these big electricity consumers -- have suffered a lot more than
service-industry players in the first half,” said Dong Tao,
Credit Suisse Group AG’s Hong Kong-based head of Asia economics
excluding  Japan . “So electricity consumption is not a benchmark
but a reference.”  Figures released today by the State Electricity Regulatory
Commission suggest power-output growth may have rebounded in
July. Production was 453.7 billion kilowatt-hours last month,
which if confirmed in tomorrow’s official data from the
statistics bureau, would be 6.7 percent above a year earlier.  Inflation Slowing  Industrial production probably rose 9.7 percent in July
from a year earlier, based on the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey. Data tomorrow may also show consumer  inflation 
decelerated to 1.7 percent in July, the weakest pace since
January 2010.  Trade data to be released Aug. 10 will probably indicate
 export  growth slowed last month to a three-month low. New  yuan 
loans fell in July, analysts predicted ahead of data due by Aug.
15.  Profits at Chinese steelmakers fell 96 percent in the first
half as demand and prices dropped, a China Iron and Steel
Association official said last week.  Anhui Conch Cement Co. (914) ,
China’s biggest maker of the material, said in June that first-
half earnings may have dropped by more than 50 percent.  Services Growth  Some companies in  service industries , by contrast, are
seeing faster growth. The U.S.’s  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) , operator of
KFC and Pizza Hut restaurants, said second-quarter “system
sales” in China rose 27 percent and boosted the number of
planned store openings in the country this year.  Starwood Hotels
& Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT)  said first-half China sales rose more
than 25 percent.  A survey of  purchasing managers  indicated that
manufacturing teetered on the edge of contraction last month,
with a government  gauge  at 50.1. The official services index was
at 55.6; readings above 50 signal expansion.  Service industries now account for about 43 percent of the
economy, and China’s government is trying to boost that to 47
percent by 2015.  More broadly, electricity is a “powerful indicator, but
it’s just volatile on a month-to-month basis,” said  Michael Parker , senior analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in Hong
Kong. Reviewing two years of figures gets a power-consumption
growth rate of about 7 percent, “which is about consistent”
with GDP expansion, he said.  China’s statistics bureau publishes power output data while
the National Energy Administration releases consumption figures.  Three Segments  The country divides its economic data into three segments:
primary industries, which include agriculture and livestock;
secondary, comprised of manufacturing and construction; and
tertiary, which includes services and logistics. Electricity
consumption in secondary industries grew less than 5 percent in
each of the four months through June compared with 10 percent to
14 percent during the same period in 2011, government data show.
The primary group’s consumption fell from a year earlier in
March, April and May.  The tertiary group’s power consumption, by comparison, grew
more than 10 percent from a year earlier for most of the first
half.  “The popular idea that electricity growth is a simple
proxy for economic growth is clearly not true,” said Nate
Taplin, an energy analyst with GK Dragonomics in Beijing. Li’s
remark was published in a WikiLeaks cable in late 2010.  Stocks Fall  Investor concern over China’s growth has helped send the
benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  down 15 percent in the past
year. The yuan has weakened about 1 percent against the dollar
in 2012.  The stall in electricity output is among conflicts in
China’s economic data that show the nation’s growth may be
overstated, Shen Jianguang, chief Asia economist at Mizuho
Securities Asia Ltd. in  Hong Kong , said in a July 17 report.  The government cut interest  rates  in June and July, the
first reductions since 2008, and signaled it’s focusing on
investment to support expansion that slowed to a three-year low
of 7.6 percent last quarter. Premier  Wen Jiabao  set a 2012
target of 7.5 percent in March.  “Activity growth has probably stabilized on the back of
the policy loosening which started in May,” Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. economists including Song Yu wrote in an Aug. 3 note.
Slowing inflation will allow room for more easing, Song said.  The electricity-output slump results from the economic
slowdown as well as a longer-term shift away from energy-
intensive growth in  China , Parker said. Even so, the nation may
still have a ways to go.  “There are some energy-efficiency benefits coming through
the economy that will continue,” Parker said. “But it’s a
little bit of a reach to suggest that China has effectively gone
from being Indonesia or  Egypt  in June of last year to becoming
Switzerland or  Sweden  this year.”  --Baizhen Chua, Zhou Xin. With assistance from Ailing Tan in
 Singapore , Yang Jing in  Shanghai , Brendan Murray in Wellington
and James Mayger in  Tokyo . Editors: Scott Lanman, Stephanie Phang  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhou Xin in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net ;
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  