-- Tepco Weighed Using Firearms to Avoid Fukushima Explosion
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-08-07T05:24:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/tepco-weighed-using-firearms-to-avoid-fukushima-explosion.html
As the first hydrogen explosion
rocked the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant,  Tokyo Electric
Power Co. (9501)  officials scrambled to prevent a second blast, at one
point weighing the use of firearms to shoot a hole in the
reactor building to release the pressure.  “It was probably the last resort,” Hironobu Unesaki, a
nuclear engineering professor at  Kyoto University , said by phone
yesterday.  Footage of videoconferences between the nuclear plant and
Tepco’s headquarters in Tokyo in the days after the March 11,
2011 earthquake and tsunami were released yesterday, showing
confusion and tension among engineers and executives about how
to contain the crisis, the worst nuclear disaster since
Chernobyl. More than 160,000 people were evacuated from the area
after the damaged Fukushima reactors caused meltdowns and
released radiation.  Officials were discussing methods to release hydrogen gas
building up inside the facility housing the No. 3 reactor after
the first explosion rocked the No. 1 unit on March 12, 2011.
Videos show officials considering the use of firearms and a
helicopter to drop an object into the reactor housing to make a
hole, with those who proposed the actions at one point
suggesting they may sound “wild” or “absurd.”  The plan was never carried out. Two days after the first
hydrogen explosion, the building containing reactor No. 3 also
blew up. The proposed solutions were likely rejected because
those who would have carried out the plans would have been
endangered had another explosion occurred, Unesaki said.  ‘This is Serious’  “Headquarters, headquarters. Serious, this is serious,”
plant manager Masao Yoshida called out to Tepco executives in a
videoconference with headquarters in  Tokyo  soon after the second
explosion occurred, videos of the crisis showed.  The exchanges are included in more than 150 hours of video
recorded from March 11 to March 16 last year after the
magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami crippled cooling and power
systems at the Dai-Ichi plant, causing the meltdowns and
radiation leaks. Tepco altered parts of the videos to conceal
the faces and names of employees though some executives can be
seen and identified.  Tepco made about 90 minutes of selected footage available
to the public while allowing reporters to access all 150 hours
at the utility’s head office until Sept. 7. The utility isn’t
planning to release its in-house videoconference footage
recorded after March 16, Shinji Obata, spokesman for the
company, said by phone today.  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  