-- Esprit Gets Instant Value With Zara Fast-Fashion Leader:
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z   a n d   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-08-08T09:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/esprit-gets-instant-value-with-zara-fast-fashion-leader-.html
Inditex SA (ITX)  has become the global
leader of fast fashion by getting clothing inspired by the
runway to its racks in a matter of weeks.  Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) ,
apparently deciding the best way out of a slump was to emulate
that strategy, yesterday snagged a key Inditex executive.  Esprit  shares  surged 28 percent yesterday, the most since
1998, on news that the company had hired Jose Manuel Martinez
Gutierrez as its new chief executive officer. Investors were
wagering that Martinez, who ran distribution and operations for
the owner of Zara stores, will be able to replicate some of
Inditex’s success and help Esprit recover from a three-year
profit decline.  The speed with which Inditex introduces new merchandise in
response to fashion trends drove profit up  12 percent  last year
as it expanded faster than Esprit,  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  and  Gap
Inc. (GPS)  Esprit, by contrast, reported a 74 percent drop in first-
half profit and in June announced the departures of CEO Ronald Van der Vis and Chairman Hans-Joachim Koerber within 24 hours of
each other.  “People working at Inditex are associated with a success
story,” said Alberto Roldan, an analyst who covers Inditex at
Inverseguros Sociedad Valores y Bolsa SA in  Madrid . Martinez
“is bringing ideas and development plans that he can implement
at the company.”  It may still take “a long time” for Esprit to turn around
its business, according to  Steven Leung , a Hong Kong-based
director at UoB Kay Hian Ltd. Esprit shares dropped 12 percent
to HK$11.20 at the 4 p.m. close in today in Hong Kong, giving up
some of the previous day’s gains.  Moving Quicker  Martinez, 42, has worked in  investment banking  and spent
eight years at consultant McKinsey & Co. At Inditex, he led
efforts to streamline the supply chain and headed Zara in
Scandinavia.  “Martinez will use his experience in supply-chain
management to improve the delivery time-lag at Esprit,” said
 Paul Cheng , vice chairman of Esprit. “We used to launch new
products every season, but now we may need to move quicker.”  In June, Inditex reported a 30 percent gain in first-
quarter profit, beating analyst estimates. The retailer’s
success is reflected in the rising fortune of  Amancio Ortega ,
its septuagenarian founder who this week bumped  Warren Buffett 
from his perch as the world’s third-richest person. The 76-year-
old Spanish tycoon’s fortune climbed by $1.6 billion to $46.6
billion on Aug. 6, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index , as Inditex stock rose to a record.  Fashion Pioneer  Esprit’s revenue growth slowed to 0.1 percent in the year
ended June, from 26 percent in 2008, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Inditex’s sales increased 10 percent in the year
ended January, topping H&M’s 1.4 percent gain for the year to
November and Gap’s 0.8 percent drop in the year ended January.  Zara, the main Inditex brand, was a pioneer of fast-fashion
and has sought to reproduce designer looks at affordable price.  “It is certainly a blow to Inditex to lose one of its top
execs to a large competitor, but they have enough experience and
expertise to continue growing,” said Magdalena Kondej, head of
apparel research at Euromonitor International.  Inditex  shares  jumped 1.8 percent to a record high of 90.60
euros in Madrid yesterday. The company declined to comment on
Martinez’s departure.  Management Succession  Esprit’s succession plan had been unclear after Van der Vis
quit June 12 and the company reported the departure of Koerber a
day later. The apparel maker’s stock plunged 22 percent in Hong
Kong on June 13. Those departures came after the resignation in
December of Chief Financial Officer Chew Fook Aun. Van der Vis
pledged to stay in the post for as long as a year after
resigning.  The Hong Kong-traded company was born in 1968 in  San
Francisco , when Susie and  Doug Tompkins  started selling clothes
out of the back of their station wagon. As the brand took off,
sales topped $100 million in 1978 and the company formed
international partnerships in Hong Kong and  Germany  were formed.  Esprit in early 2009 said first-half profit fell for the
first time in more than a decade because of the recession in
 Europe , where it made four-fifths of its sales.  Van der Vis, hired in 2009 to revive Esprit, last year laid
out a turnaround plan that included makeovers of existing stores
and new ones in  China . In an investor presentation last year,
the company said it planned to spend more than HK$18 billion
($2.3 billion) over four years to revive its brand through more
marketing and a bigger Chinese presence.  Same-store sales have recently shown some improvement.
Revenue at outlets open at least a year increased 0.5 percent in
the three months ended in March after dropping 4.6 percent in
the six months to December 31.  The appointment of Martinez reduces the uncertainty for
investors, said Mohan Singh, an analyst at Citic Securities, who
raised his recommendation on Esprit shares to buy from sell in a
note to clients.  “Investor concerns,” Singh said, “about the strategic
leadership of the company will now be lifted.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net ;
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  