-- Esprit Hires Former Inditex Manager Martinez as New CEO
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-08-07T06:17:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/esprit-hires-former-inditex-manager-martinez-as-chief-executive.html
Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330)  surged in Hong
Kong after hiring former  Inditex (ITX)  SA manager Jose Manuel Martinez
Gutierrez as chief executive officer, tapping a competitor to
revive the retailer from a profit drop and management exodus.  Esprit jumped as much as 38 percent and headed for its
biggest gain in 14 years after its filing with Hong Kong’s stock
exchange on the appointment. Martinez, most recently group
director of distribution and operations at Inditex, assumes the
role on or before the end of September, Esprit said.  He will take the helm after the apparel company in
September posted a 98 percent drop in fiscal year profit and
said its brand had “lost its soul” as it lost customers to
 Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  and Inditex. CEO Ronald Van der Vis quit
June 12 and Esprit reported the departure of its chairman a day
later.  “It’s definitely positive,” said  Andrew Sullivan ,
principal trader at Piper Jaffray Asia Securities Ltd. “This
new guy knows how a fashion retailer works.”  Esprit, which gained 8.1 percent in morning trading ahead
of the announcement,  rose  33 percent to HK$13.28 at 1:48 p.m.
local time, bound for its biggest advance since January 1998.  Martinez will be paid 1.5 million euros ($1.9 million) a
year with an annual bonus of as much as 1.5 million euros, which
is guaranteed in the first two years, Esprit said. He will be
given a sign on bonus of 1.25 million euros as well as 5 million
share options.  Retail Career  His professional career has covered  investment banking ,
strategy consulting and management positions in the retail
industry, according to the company’s statement. He has led
transformation projects to improve Inditex’s supply chain
management and has also held the position of country manager for
the Zara brand across Scandinavia, according to the statement.  The management departures in June came six months after the
company’s chief financial officer resigned and left Esprit with
a gap in senior management as it struggles to recover from a
three-year profit decline. Esprit’s stock plunged 22 percent in
 Hong Kong  on June 13, the most in 15 years, on news of the CEO’s
departure, before trading was suspended.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  