-- MetLife Fined by Fed Ahead of Exit From Banking
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-08-07T20:47:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/metlife-fined-by-fed-for-mortgage-lapses-ahead-of-banking-exit.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the insurer seeking an
exit from banking to limit U.S. regulation, was penalized $3.2
million by the Federal Reserve for lapses tied to the servicing
of loans and handling of foreclosures.  MetLife is among companies scrutinized by U.S. authorities
including the Fed and  Justice Department  for abusive foreclosure
practices stemming from the collapse of the housing bubble. Five
larger home lenders, including Bank of America Corp., reached a
$25 billion deal this year with states and the U.S. to end a
probe, while reviews continued for smaller lenders.  Steven Kandarian , the chief executive officer of  New York- 
based MetLife, has stopped initiating residential mortgages and
struck a deal to sell deposits to  General Electric Co. (GE)  as part
of a plan to depart banking. The Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency, another regulator, said in a June 20 letter that
the company would retain bank status until it addressed mortgage
deficiencies.  “The Board is taking action against MetLife at this time
in light of MetLife’s publicly announced decision to sell its
subsidiary bank’s deposit-taking operations,” the Fed said in
an e-mailed statement today. “The Board continues to believe
that monetary sanctions in the remaining cases are appropriate
and plans to announce monetary penalties against those
organizations.”  MetLife advanced 2.6 percent to $34.31 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York. Kandarian’s firm has climbed 10 percent this year, beating
the 4.7 percent gain of the 24-company KBW Insurance Index.
Chris Breslin, a company spokesman, said MetLife is “pleased to
put this matter with the  Federal Reserve  behind us.”  Dividends, Buybacks  MetLife generates most of its U.S. profit from insurance
operations, which are overseen by state regulators. The
company’s size and its banking status subjected the insurer to
Fed oversight of its capital plans along with the country’s
biggest lenders, like Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The Fed has rejected Kandarian’s plans for dividend
increases and share buybacks at MetLife, the largest U.S. life
insurer. No. 2 Prudential Financial Inc., which isn’t subject to
the same Fed oversight, has lifted its dividend and announced
buybacks in the past two years.  Kandarian said last week he couldn’t speculate when the
banking exit might be completed. His March forecast for a
departure by the end of June proved premature.  “I know that investors are eager for a resolution of this
issue but the timing is outside of MetLife’s control,” he said
in an Aug. 2 conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  