-- Euro Gains on Speculation ECB Measures Will Quell Crisis
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-08-07T21:25:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/euro-climbs-for-third-day-against-dollar-advances-versus-yen.html
The euro rose to a more than three-
week high versus the yen amid speculation that the  European
Central Bank  is taking appropriate measures to quell the
region’s debt crisis.  The shared currency climbed earlier against the  U.S. dollar 
as a report showed Italy’s economy  shrank  less than economists
predicted. The euro was supported as the European Union said it
had received no requests for the region’s rescue fund to buy
 government bonds . Norway’s krone climbed after manufacturing
increased.  “One of the biggest positions out there in the foreign-
exchange space has been short euros,”  MacNeil Curry , head of
foreign-exchange and  interest-rates  technical strategy in  New
York  at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said in a television
interview on “Lunch Money” with Sara Eisen and  Stephanie Ruhle . “That is starting to come into question as price action
trades back to the topside and people are forced to square back
some of their positions.” A short position is a bet an asset
will decline.  The euro rose 0.4 percent to 97.46 yen at 5 p.m. New York
time after climbing to 97.82 yen, the strongest level since July
12. The yen fell 0.5 percent to 78.61 per dollar. The 17-nation
currency was little changed at $1.2399 after gaining as much as
0.3 percent.  The shared currency added 0.5 percent in the past week
versus nine developed-nation counterparts tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen led decliners,
dropping 1.3 percent, while the greenback fell 1.1 percent.  Draghi’s Plan  ECB President  Mario Draghi  outlined a plan last week under
which the ECB may buy debt of struggling euro-bloc countries in
tandem with the region’s bailout fund, while saying the details
still need to be worked out over the coming weeks.  Germany  is “not worried” by Draghi’s Aug. 2 statement on
possible bond purchases,  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s deputy
spokesman Georg Streiter said in Berlin yesterday.  “The fact that the German spokesperson made an official
statement for the first time about the country’s backing of ECB
bond purchases is supporting the euro,” said Ken Takahashi,
assistant vice president of global markets at Sumitomo Mitsui
Trust Bank Ltd. in New York. “The market is reassessing the
ECB’s decision and taking a more positive view on it.”  Norway’s  manufacturing  production gained 0.8 percent in
June from May, when it rose a revised 0.6 percent, the Oslo-
based statistics agency said in a statement today. The median
prediction of three economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a 0.4 percent gain.  Krone, Pound  The Norwegian krone climbed for a third day against the
dollar, rising 0.7 percent to 5.9217. The currency was 0.7
percent stronger against the euro at 7.3425.  Britain’s pound strengthened after a government report
showed industrial output fell less in June than economists
predicted, suggesting the recession was less pronounced in the
second quarter than previously reported. Sterling rose 0.1
percent to $1.5621 and increased 0.1 percent to 79.37 pence per
euro.  The Swiss franc rose earlier against the dollar and was
little changed against the euro after Switzerland’s central bank
said foreign-currency reserves surged to a record in July amid
the defense of the currency’s ceiling.  The franc was little changed at 96.89 centimes per dollar
and was at 1.20126 per euro, from 1.20143 yesterday.  Switzerland’s cash pile swelled 11.3 percent in the month
to 406.5 billion Swiss francs, the  Swiss National Bank (SNBN)  said on
its website today. That pushed holdings to a record 71 percent
of GDP, according to the government’s forecast for 2012.  ‘Headed Higher’  Italian gross domestic product declined 0.7 percent in the
second quarter, Istat, the Rome-based national statistics
institute, said in a preliminary report today. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists was for a 0.8
percent decline. GDP fell 2.5 percent from a year earlier.  The euro held gains even after Germany’s Economy Ministry
in Berlin said  factory orders  dropped 1.7 percent from May, when
they rose 0.7 percent. Economists projected a 0.8 percent
decline.  “In the very short term, the euro is headed higher,”  Marc Chandler , global head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co. in New York, said in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with Ken Prewitt and  Tom Keene . “I’m
thinking we get a little pop up in the euro now and sell off
next month.”  Riskless Ranking  The euro’s risk-adjusted loss of 0.47 percent against the
dollar this year was the largest among major currencies, the
Bloomberg Riskless Ranking showed. The Swiss franc was the
fifth-best performer, rising 0.36 percent.  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of
risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  Australia ’s dollar rose to the strongest since March
against the U.S. currency after the  Reserve Bank  said current
policy settings were “appropriate.” RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens 
and his board said in a statement the nation’s growth was close
to trend.  The so-called Aussie declined 0.1 percent to $1.0554 after
rising to $1.0604, the strongest level since March 20.  Corrective Pullback  A corrective pullback in the currency is likely at these
levels, as the area from $1.0639 to $1.0695 includes its mid-
March peak versus the greenback,  Niall O’Connor , a New York-
based technical analyst at JPMorgan, wrote in a note to clients
today.  If the Aussie depreciates to the $1.0400 to $1.4035 area,
then down to $1.0345, its short-term “bullish spin” would
diminish, according to O’Connor.  South Africa ’s rand strengthened to its highest level in
more than a month. The currency gained as much as 0.6 percent to
8.1189 per dollar, the strongest since July 5, before paring
back to 8.1632.  Implied  volatility  on three-month options for Group-of-
Seven currencies fell as low as 8.53, the lowest level since
July 20, according to the JPMorgan G7  Volatility Index . It
reached 8.32 percent on July 20 and rose to 9.83 percent on July
24. The five-year average is 12.4 percent.  Lower volatility makes investments in currencies of nations
with higher benchmark interest rates more attractive because the
risk in such trades is that market moves will erase profits. Key
rates are 5 percent in South Africa and 3.5 percent in
Australia, versus zero to 0.25 percent in the U.S., 0.75 percent
in the euro bloc and zero to 0.1 percent in  Japan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  