-- Ex-Penn State Football Players Appeal School’s NCAA Sanctions
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-08-07T20:23:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/ex-penn-state-football-players-appeal-school-s-ncaa-sanctions.html
Former Pennsylvania State University
quarterback  Michael Robinson  heads a group of nine ex-Nittany
Lions players and coaches appealing sanctions against the school
for its handling of child sex-abuse allegations against one-time
assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky.  Lawyer Paul Kelly of Jackson Lewis LLP sent a letter on
behalf of the group to the  National Collegiate Athletic
Association ’s Infractions Appeals Committee, saying college
sports’ governing body failed to follow its own bylaws and
enforcement policies in handing down Penn State’s penalties.  Robinson, who played at Penn State from 2001 to 2005 and is
now with the National Football League’s  Seattle  Seahawks, is
appealing the NCAA’s sanctions along with ex-assistant coach
Bill Kenney and former players Anwar Phillips (2001-05), Josh
Gaines (2004-08), Shamar Finney (1998-2002), Richard Gardner
(1999-2003, Gerald Cadogan (2004-08), Anthony Adams (1998-2002)
and Justin Kurpeikis (1996-2000).  The group, according to the letter sent to the NCAA, was
collectively named in the NCAA’s consent decree entered against
 Penn State  and “directly damaged and harmed” by the sanctions,
which included the vacating of all of the football program’s
wins from 1998 to 2011.  “The appellants and other involved parties were denied the
right to be heard regarding the initial allegations, the factual
findings and conclusions contained in the decree, and the
sanctions imposed,” according to the letter to the NCAA. “The
appellants believe that the only way to support and respect the
victims for abuse is for there to be a thorough investigation
and fair hearing which seeks the truth, not a rush to judgment
designed to put this affair in the past.”  No Review  NCAA spokesman Bob Williams said in an e-mail yesterday in
response to a similar action by a university trustee that Penn
State’s sanctions aren’t subject to review.  The ex-players and coach said many of the NCAA’s findings
contained in the consent decree and the report compiled by
former  Federal Bureau  of Investigation Director  Louis Freeh  are
“clearly erroneous and not supported by the evidence.” Their
letter also says the NCAA’s actions against Penn State were
excessive and constitute an abuse of discretion.  The NCAA on July 23 stripped the Penn State football
program of 112 victories, taking away the late  Joe Paterno ’s
distinction as the most successful coach in college football
history. It also imposed a $60 million fine, took away 20
football scholarships annually for four years, and imposed a
four-year bowl ban on the school.  Trustee’s Case  The letter from the former players and coach comes a day
after a similar appeal from Penn State Board of Trustees member
Ryan McCombie, who accused the NCAA’s infractions committee of
handing down “excessive and unreasonable” penalties. Four days
ago, a lawyer for the Paterno family informed the NCAA that it
was requesting both the opportunity to appeal the penalties in
writing and an in-person hearing with the governing body for
college athletics.  Freeh’s 267-page report, released two weeks before the NCAA
revealed its sanctions, concluded that university officials,
including Paterno, failed to protect children from sexual abuse
by Sandusky by not reporting him to the police and by continuing
to grant him access to the on-campus football building where
some of the attacks took place.  Sandusky, 68, an assistant coach at Penn State for 31
years, was convicted last month on 45 criminal counts tied to
the abuse of 10 boys over a 15-year period starting in 1994.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  