-- Ex-Treasury Minister Laws Said to Return to U.K. Government
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-08-07T15:56:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/ex-treasury-minister-laws-said-to-return-to-u-k-government-1-.html
David Laws , a Liberal Democrat
lawmaker who resigned as a Treasury minister in May 2010 over
his expenses, will return to the U.K. government when Prime
Minister  David Cameron  reorganizes his ministerial team after
the summer break, a person familiar with the matter said.  Laws, 46, resigned as chief secretary to the Treasury 19
days after the formation of the Conservative-led government when
the Daily Telegraph newspaper disclosed he had claimed taxpayer-
funded allowances to pay rent to his partner, James Lundie.  Laws, who was the No. 2 to Conservative Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  as the coalition started its
deficit-cutting program, said his motive was to avoid outing
himself as gay, rather than to profit. He apologized for his
actions. Cameron said in November 2010 he wanted Laws to return
to the Cabinet “soon.”  Laws was vice-president and then managing director of
investment bank J.P. Morgan & Co. and head of  U.S. dollar  and
U.K. sterling treasuries at Barclays de Zoete Wedd. He left
 London ’s financial district to serve as economic adviser to the
Liberal Democrats in 1994.  Cameron is planning to reorganize his ministerial team
after his summer break, seeking to get his coalition on track
after a series of policy U-turns and months of poor news on the
economy. The premier has gone 1 1/2 years without a wholesale
reorganization of ministers.  Undecided  Law’s position within government has not been decided,
according to the person, who declined to be identified because
the prime minister has yet to appoint his new ministerial team.  Jo Swinson, 32, a Scottish Liberal Democrat who is
currently a ministerial aide to Clegg, is also set to be
promoted, the person said.  The Liberal Democrats hold five Cabinet positions and 18
other ministerial roles, a fifth of all government positions.
While Liberal Democrat leader  Nick Clegg  recommends positions,
it is ultimately for the premier to decide who serves under him.
Cameron’s office declined to comment.  Reshuffles are a piece of political theater in the U.K.,
with ministers walking up Downing Street to the prime minister’s
London residence to be told of promotion or demotion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  