-- Ex-UBS Executive Told Colleague to Forget Rigged Deal
-- B y   E m i l y   G r a n n i s
-- 2012-08-07T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/ex-ubs-executive-told-colleague-to-forget-rigged-deal.html
A former  UBS AG (UBSN)  municipal-bond
executive told an ex-colleague to forget about a transaction as
they discussed how to handle an expanding government probe of
bond bid rigging, the second man testified at trial.  Mark Zaino, who worked on the bond desk at UBS, told the
federal court jury in  Manhattan  yesterday that Gary Heinz, one
of three defendants in the  municipal bond  big-rigging trial,
told him to “forget about” a transaction involving the
Massachusetts Education Financing Authority. Zaino said he,
Heinz and Michael Welty, a co-defendant, had rigged the bids for
that deal.  Zaino, a key witness for the prosecution, told jurors what
he thought Heinz expected him to do. “I understood that we
should come up with a lie with a credible reason for the
payments with respect to the Massachusetts transaction,” Zaino
said.  Heinz and Welty are charged along with Peter Ghavami, the
former head of UBS’s municipal-derivatives group, with
conspiracy to defraud municipal-bond issuers and U.S. tax
authorities by fixing the prices on the investing agreements.  Zaino spent much of yesterday identifying and explaining
audio recordings during questioning by prosecutors. He walked
the jury through 21 tapes, mostly of discussions between Welty
and  Peter Grimm , who worked at GE’s Financial Guaranty Insurance
Corp. Grimm was convicted in May of conspiracy to commit fraud
by manipulating auctions for municipal bond investment
contracts.  Possible Sentence  Zaino pleaded guilty to three criminal counts in 2010 and
faces as long as 35 years in prison when he’s sentenced. He
began cooperating with the government in May 2006, after the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  revealed they had been
investigating him for bond rigging.  Jonathan Halpern, a lawyer for Heinz, asked Zaino yesterday
during cross-examination whether he hoped to avoid prison by
testifying in the trial. Zaino responded he “obviously” would
like to stay out of prison, though he said the government hasn’t
indicated what sentence it would recommend.  Halpern questioned Zaino about the “benefits” he received
from the government in return for his testimony, listing as
examples that Zaino hasn’t served any time in prison, hasn’t had
his assets seized, and didn’t face charges for the first four
years of his cooperation.  The case is U.S. v. Ghavami, 10-cr-1217, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emily Grannis in New York at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  