-- Express Scripts Raises Forecast as Medco Merger Starts
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-08-08T13:41:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/express-scripts-raises-forecast-as-medco-merger-starts.html
Express Scripts  Holding Co., the
largest U.S. processor of drug prescriptions, raised its annual
profit forecast as gross margins improved following its April
acquisition of Medco Health Solutions Inc.  Earnings excluding some items will be $3.60 to $3.75 a
share in 2012, compared with a forecast in May of $3.36 to
$3.66, the St. Louis-based company said yesterday in a
statement. Second-quarter profit, excluding the costs of the
Medco purchase, was 88 cents, more than the average  estimate  of
82 cents from 22 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  The increased size of Express Scripts, which completed its
$29 billion acquisition at the beginning of the quarter, gives
the pharmacy benefits manager greater purchasing power and
leverage to win clients, said  Anthony Vendetti , an analyst with
Maxim Group in  New York . Vendetti, who rates the stock a buy
with a $76 target, said in an interview that the combination
with Medco made Express Scripts the industry’s dominant player.  “We’re just starting to scratch the surface of that
potential,” said Vendetti, who doesn’t own the shares.  Express Scripts rose 5.8 percent to $59.24 at 9:38 a.m. New
York time. The shares gained 25 percent this year through
yesterday.  Generic Drugs  Express Scripts said its gross profit margin widened to 7.8
percent in the second quarter from 7.1 percent a year earlier,
partly because customers used more generic medicines. Pharmacy-
benefits managers act as middlemen for drugmakers, pharmacies
and health-plan sponsors, negotiating prices and managing the
use of drugs by patients. Profits are tied to clients’ drug
costs.  Express Scripts said it  processed  404 million prescription
claims in the quarter, up from 186 million a year earlier before
the Medco acquisition. About 79 percent of those claims were
generic medicines.  Including costs incurred for the purchase of Medco, second-
quarter  net income  fell to $171 million, or 21 cents a share,
from $334 million, or 66 cents, a year earlier, Express Scripts
said. Sales more than doubled to $27.7 billion because of the
acquisition.  Express Scripts said July 19 it had settled a contract
dispute over reimbursement rates with drugstore chain  Walgreen
Co. (WAG)  that will let clients include the retailer’s pharmacies in
their networks beginning Sept. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  