-- FAA Tells Court It May Fine American Airlines Over Safety
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-08-07T20:57:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/faa-tells-court-it-may-fine-american-airlines-over-safety.html
AMR Corp.’s  American Airlines  may
face the largest penalties ever pursued by the U.S.  Federal
Aviation Administration  for safety violations, according to a
bankruptcy court filing.  The agency’s cases, several of which have never been
disclosed, may lead to as much as $162.4 million in fines
against American and affiliated companies, according to
documents filed by the agency with the  U.S. Bankruptcy Court 
overseeing AMR’s reorganization.  “The documents detail both proposed and potential civil
penalties in connection with ongoing enforcement cases involving
both American Airlines and American Eagle,” the agency said in
a statement. “Because these cases remain open, the FAA cannot
discuss the details of the individual investigations.”  The agency said it had identified 36 separate instances in
which  Fort Worth , Texas-based American violated safety rules,
including failure to perform repairs and mechanics mistakenly
putting jets back into service with inoperable equipment.
Sixteen of those hadn’t previously been made public.  The AMR claims register shows the FAA filed four secured
claims totaling $162.4 million July 12 against the airline
company. The agency filed the claims to ensure that the
government was paid as a creditor in AMR’s restructuring, it
said in an e-mailed statement. As a secured creditor, the FAA
would be paid ahead of many holders of priority, administrative
and unsecured claims, under bankruptcy law.  Systemic Failure  The largest claim was for $39.3 million in recommended
fines that resulted from what the FAA called a systemic failure
to repair  Boeing Co. (BA)  757s in 2009, according to the filings.  FAA inspectors found that only three out of 124 of
American’s 757s had had proper repairs to wiring near the
plane’s two engines. The single-aisle planes made 1,480
passenger flights without the repairs, according to the filings.  In another case, American was told by Boeing in 2008 that
it had improperly repaired engines on wide-body 767s. The
airline made 2,118 flights on the planes, according to the FAA.
The agency intends to seek $27.6 million for these violations.  American is aware of the FAA’s potential claims,  Michael Trevino , a spokesman for AMR, said in an e-mailed statement.  “The claims process is a routine part of any Chapter 11
filing,” Trevino said. “It is not an admission that money is
owed, nor is it an admission that the amount cited is correct.”  Previous Record  The FAA’s claims include $24.2 million sought against
American in 2010 for maintenance lapses that grounded its fleet
of Boeing MD-80s in 2008. That’s the largest fine the agency has
proposed to date.  The case hasn’t been settled, and carriers typically
negotiate lower payments with the FAA.  American had to cancel more than 3,300 flights over five
days in April 2008, stranding 360,000 passengers while the
conducted wiring inspections and made repairs on MD-80 aircraft
that made up almost half its fleet.  The carrier said it had to park the planes after FAA spot
checks found that clamps used to secure wiring bundles in the
jets’ wheel wells didn’t comply with an agency order.  American executives said at the time they believed the
carrier had met the FAA’s safety directive when it grounded the
MD-80s. Those planes weren’t reinspected by the FAA before they
returned to service.  Since then, the airline has made improvements in its
maintenance procedures and worked with the agency to improve
relations, Trevino said.  Claims against American totaled $156.5 million, according
to the AMR register. Regional unit American Eagle faces a $5.3
million claim while the FAA is seeking $629,500 from AMR’s
Executive Airlines Inc. and $17,875 from Eagle Aviation
Services.  The case is In re  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , 11-15463, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  