-- Facebook Unveils Mobile-Ad Service Aimed at Increasing Sales
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-08-08T20:08:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/facebook-unveils-mobile-ad-service-to-drive-app-downloads.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , owner of the top
social-networking service, unveiled a tool that helps developers
advertise their wares, adding to services aimed at boosting
sales from people who socialize using smartphones and tablets.  The service helps game makers and other software developers
encourage users to install applications on their mobile devices,
 Menlo Park , California-based Facebook said yesterday on a blog.
The mobile-ad service is also designed to help app developers
measure the effectiveness of their ads.  “We’re announcing a new way for mobile app developers to
grow their business with an ad unit that helps them reach and
reengage their users,” Facebook said.  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  is under pressure
to find ways to increase sales of ads aimed at people who use
Facebook on mobile devices. The company’s shares have tumbled 45
percent since the initial public offering amid concern that it
isn’t boosting sales quickly enough.  Mobile Ads for Apps, as Facebook calls it, is being tested
with a limited number of partners, the company said.  A user who clicks on an ad on Facebook’s pages will be
linked to an online store where they can purchase the
application. The new service works with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s App Store
or  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android market, known as Google Play. Facebook
is also providing tools for monitoring the performance of an ad.  Mobile Challenge  Facebook  said in the run-up to its May 17 initial public
offering that sales growth wasn’t keeping pace with gains in
users who, in growing numbers, are accessing the site via
tablets and smartphones. The company, which only rolled out its
first mobile ad service in March, said sales grew 32 percent in
the second quarter, down from 45 percent in the previous period.  Mobile is a key area of focus for the company, Zuckerberg
said during a call with analysts last month. Mobile users, who
make up more than half of the membership, are more active than
counterparts who use only the desktop version, he said.  “Mobile is a huge opportunity for Facebook,” Zuckerberg
said. “Our goal is to connect everyone in the world. And over
the next five years, we expect 4 or 5 billion people to have
smartphones. That’s more than twice as many people as have
computers today.”  Facebook shares were unchanged at $20.72 at the close in
 New York . The stock has dropped 45 percent from its initial
public offering price of $38.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  