-- Facebook Shares Extend Slide in Week Before Lockup Lifts
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i
-- 2012-08-07T21:21:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/facebook-shares-extend-slide-in-week-before-lockup-lifts-1-.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  shares extended a
decline, marking their steepest one-day drop in a week, days
before the lifting of a ban on stock sales by some of the
company’s biggest investors.  The stock  fell  5.5 percent to $20.72 at the close in New
York today. They are down 45 percent since being sold at $38 a
share in a May 17 initial public offering.  Facebook disappointed investors on July 26 when its first
earnings report as a public company showed slower sales growth
in the second quarter and Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  didn’t provide a sales or profit outlook for the
year. The lockup on the first block of shares held by insiders
expires on Aug. 16.  “You’ll see roughly 70 percent of the shares come off
lockup between now and December,” said Victor Anthony, a New
York-based analyst at Topeka Capital Markets who rates the stock
a buy. “There is going to be pressure over Facebook’s stock
over the next couple months as lockups expire.”  Facebook, which hasn’t closed above the IPO price since its
first trading day, touched $20.50 during trade today, just above
a record low of $19.82 on Aug. 2. The company also posted slower
user growth in the second quarter and is facing concerns about
how quickly it can boost mobile advertising.  Mobile is a key area of focus for Zuckerberg because users
who log in via smartphones and tablets -- half of Facebook’s
members -- are more active than those who use only the desktop
version. Facebook has had little time to gain traction in mobile
advertising, having just announced its first advertising
platform in February.  Facebook unveiled a new mobile-advertising service today
designed to help software developers woo more users to their
applications.  “The company really needs revenue acceleration right now
to instill confidence in the market,” Anthony said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chaykowski in  New York  at 
 kchaykowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  