-- Fed’s Rosengren Urges ‘Open-Ended’ Easing Program
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   F a i r c h i l d   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-08-07T15:13:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/fed-s-rosengren-urges-open-ended-easing-program.html
Federal Reserve  Bank of Boston
President  Eric Rosengren  said the central bank should pursue an
“open-ended” quantitative easing program of “substantial
magnitude” to boost growth and hiring amid a global slowdown.  The Fed should set its guidance based on the economic
outcomes it seeks and focus on buying more mortgage-backed
securities, Rosengren said today in a CNBC interview. Without
new stimulus, the  jobless rate  would rise to 8.4 percent at the
end of this year and economic growth wouldn’t exceed its 1.75
percent average in the first half of the year, he said.  “What I would argue for actually is to have it open-ended,
that we focus on economic outcomes,” Rosengren said. “It would
be setting a quantity that you’re going to continue to buy until
you get the economic outcomes that you want.”  Additional accommodation is necessary because unemployment
remains at the same 8.3 percent level it was in January even
after the central bank has purchased $2.3 trillion in bonds and
held its main  interest rate   near zero  since December 2008,
Rosengren said. The Boston Fed chief doesn’t have a vote on the
policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  this year.  A new easing program “needs to be substantial enough that
it offsets some of the shocks that we’re getting from abroad and
some of the concerns that people have with how weak the world
economy has been,” Rosengren said. “We’re in a global
slowdown. That would argue for a quantitative easing program,
and one of sufficient magnitude that it has an impact.”  Operation Twist  The FOMC said Aug. 1 it will continue swapping $667 billion
of short-term debt with longer-term securities to lengthen the
average maturity of its holdings, an action dubbed Operation
Twist. Policy makers also said they will “closely monitor”
economic data. The FOMC next meets on Sept. 12-13.  “We want a stronger economy, we want faster growth in the
incomes and we want a labor market that has an  unemployment rate 
that’s clearly declining,” Rosengren said. “If you’re treading
water even if you’re a good swimmer at some point you need to
get to land.”  Rosengren, 55, was formerly the head of banking supervision
and regulation at the Boston Fed and became its president in
2007. Fed presidents rotate voting on monetary policy, with
Rosengren next holding a seat in 2013.  He said that he disagrees with any suggestion that policy
makers shouldn’t take action in the meetings just before the
 U.S. presidential election  on Nov. 6 because it may create a
perception that the central bank is taking sides politically.  ‘Nonpartisan’  “We’ve found that the economy has not grown as fast as
we’d hoped and as a result I think it is an appropriate time to
take stronger action,” Rosengren said. “A nonpartisan Federal
Reserve should not be worried about the political cycle, it
should be worried about the business cycle.”  The  European Central Bank  is making progress in containing
the region’s sovereign debt crisis, Rosengren said. ECB
President  Mario Draghi  said Aug. 2 that the central bank may
step up its response to the crisis by intervening in bond
markets in tandem with  Europe ’s rescue fund. He didn’t signal
imminent action.  “It seems like a reasonable start to a program that tries
to get the problems that the sovereigns are having under
control,” Rosengren said. “There are plenty more steps they
have to do and there’s not going to be any one solution for the
European problem. It’s going to have to be a series of actions
that they’re taking to get a more unified fiscal solution.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Fairchild in  New York  at 
 cfairchild2@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  