-- Fed Begins Adding Reserves to Banking System With Repo Agreement
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2012-08-07T14:02:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/fed-begins-adding-reserves-to-banking-system-with-repo-agreement.html
The  Federal Reserve  is adding
reserves to the banking system through a repurchase agreement as
part of a program to test its operational readiness.  The transactions, part of a series of temporary open-market
operations that began in 2009, don’t represent any change in
monetary policy, according to an Aug. 2 statement on the Federal
Reserve Bank of  New York ’s  website .  The central bank added $210
million in reserves Aug. 3.  In repos, the Fed buys securities from its 21 primary
dealers for a set period, raising the amount of money available
in the banking system temporarily. At maturity, the securities
are returned to the dealers, and the cash to the Fed. In a
reverse repo, the opposite occurs.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  authorized the New York
Fed in June to undertake repos and outright purchases and sales
of securities, in addition to reverse repos, to test readiness.
The repo last week was the first by the central bank since
December 2008.  In the past three years, it has added six primary dealers
and several system changes as well as adjustments to support the
reform of the tri-party repo market.  The Fed has previously used repos and reverse repos to help
maintain the proper level of money in the banking system to keep
overnight  interest rates  near the central bank’s target. The Fed
has held its target rate for overnight loans between banks in a
range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  In a tri-party arrangement, a third party acts as the agent
for the transaction and holds the security as collateral.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  are the
only banks that serve in a trade-clearing capacity in the tri-
party repo market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  