-- Foreigners Flee Indian State Companies on Intervention
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2012-08-08T06:59:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/foreigners-flee-state-companies-on-intervention-corporat.html
Foreign investors are cutting their
holdings in India’s state-controlled companies to a three-year
low as Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government sacrifices
shareholder return to revive the weakest economy in nine years.  Overseas funds pared stakes in the 40 biggest state-owned
firms to an average 7.31 percent at the end of June, the lowest
level since March 2009, exchange data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The Children’s Investment Fund Management, a London-based
hedge fund, is suing the Indian government and  Coal India Ltd. (COAL) ,
alleging state directives have hurt its investment in the miner.
 Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC) , India’s largest explorer, in May said
discounts offered to state refiners on crude-oil supplies cut
its annual profit in half.  The intervention is eroding investor confidence in Singh’s
administration that has been beset by policy reversals,
corruption scandals and record power cuts, according to
Prudential International Investments Advisers. Waning offshore
demand may undermine the government’s plan to bridge a  budget
deficit  by selling 300 billion rupees ($5.5 billion) of shares
in state firms, said F&C Asset Management Plc.  “We are reducing exposure to state-run companies,”  Jeff Chowdhry , the London-based head of emerging-market equities at
F&C, which oversees about $150 billion, said by phone. “Most
portfolio investors are saying: I am only going to invest in
companies that are private sector, and as far removed as
possible from government policy.”  F&C’s India-focused fund  sold  1,463 shares of Coal India
and 28,000 shares of iron-ore miner  NMDC Ltd. (NMDC) , according to a
factsheet filed at the end of May.  D.S. Malik, a spokesman at India’s Ministry of Finance,
declined to comment on overseas funds’ holdings.  Underperformance  India’s  BSE-PSU Index (BSETPSU)  of state-owned companies has dropped
10 percent from this year’s high in February and trailed the
benchmark BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  for five months through
July, the longest stretch in six years. Stocks in the PSU
measure trade at a median 8.2 times earnings, compared with 15
times for the Sensex, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The nation’s economic  growth  slowed to 5.3 percent in the
March quarter, the weakest pace in almost a decade, as discord
among members of the ruling Congress Party-led coalition and
claims of graft damped investment. The fastest  inflation rate 
among the four biggest developing economies has kept India’s
central bank from cutting  interest rates .  Fuel Subsidy  The government, seeking to keep fuel costs affordable, has
prevented state refiners from raising prices. Oil & Natural Gas
is required to supply crude to refiners at subsidized prices to
partly compensate them for selling diesel, kerosene and cooking
gas below cost. The government sets ONGC’s subsidy share at the
end of each quarter, according to the explorer.  ONGC in May said its annual profit of 251.2 billion rupees
would have almost doubled without the subsidy.  Coal India agreed to increase wages in January and kept
prices unchanged as policy makers urged it to protect power
utilities from higher raw-material costs. The company plans to
lift output after a government order in February to ensure fuel
supplies to generation plants or pay a penalty. Coal India
yesterday agreed to pay as much as 40 percent of the value of a
shortfall in contracted quantities.  India’s electricity grid collapsed twice in two days last
week, leaving more than 640 million people without power before
it was restored. Electricity shortages shave about 1.2
percentage points off the nation’s annual growth, according to
the Planning Commission.  ‘Total Failure’  “We regard the failure of directors to raise coal prices,
despite substantial increases in wage bill of 65 billion rupees
this year, to anything like market rates a total failure to
fulfill their duties properly,” Oscar Veldhuijzen, a partner at
The Children’s Investment Fund, wrote in a letter dated Aug. 1
to Coal India Chairman S. Narsing Rao, a copy of which was made
available by the fund to the media. TCI filed the lawsuit in
Delhi  High Court  on July 30, Veldhuijzen said by phone on Aug.
2. Rao didn’t answer three calls made to his mobile phone.  India’s government wants to settle matters with TCI Fund
amicably, then Coal Secretary Alok Perti told reporters on May
29. The government won’t interfere in commercial matters of the
company, he said. TCI held a 1 percent stake in the producer at
the end of June, making it the second-largest holder after the
government, which owns 90 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  Foreign investors held 5.55 percent of Coal India at the
end of June, down from 6.37 percent a year ago, the data show.
Their stake in ONGC fell to 5.29 percent from 5.35 percent in
March, and to 3.15 percent in  Steel Authority of India Ltd ., the
lowest since at least March 2009, from 3.47 percent.  The government has approved the sale of a 10.82 percent
stake in the Steel Authority, Jairam Ramesh, India’s rural
development minister, said on July 19.  BRIC Laggards  The reduction in offshore holdings in Steel Authority is
“in sync with the general withdrawal of FIIs from emerging
economies due to unprecedented meltdown in the  euro zone ,” Arti
Lunia, an  executive director  for corporate affairs at the
steelmaker, said by e-mail. “Holdings by any group keep on
changing based on market sentiments.”  The drop in foreign ownership is because of “heightened
volatility” in the world economy and a “clear-cut and
consistent policy of subsidy-sharing will create confidence
among shareholders,” A.K. Banerjee, finance director of ONGC,
said by phone on Aug. 6.  An index of 47 state-owned companies in the so-called BRIC
group of four nations -- Brazil, Russia, India and China --
compiled by Bloomberg and London-based consulting firm Trusted
Sources has dropped 17 percent in the past six months, trailing
the MSCI BRIC index by 2 percentage points.  ‘Socialization’  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR3) , Brazil’s state-controlled oil
company, slid 20 percent during the period while OAO Gazprom,
Russia’s gas export monopoly, lost 18 percent.  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s biggest state-run
bank by market value, slumped 18 percent in Hong Kong trading.  “We’ve never been big fans of owning state-run companies
in  emerging markets  due to a prominent risk of ’socialization’
of shareholder profits,” Masha Gordon, London-based head of
emerging-market equities at Pacific Investment Management Co.,
which oversees about $1.8 trillion worldwide, said by e-mail.  Total overseas holdings of domestic stocks climbed to a
record 11 percent of India’s market value in June, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Net inflows this year have risen to
$10.8 billion, a record for the period, the data show.  F&C’s Chowdhry favors  HDFC Bank Ltd. (HDFCB) , the second-largest
Indian private lender, and Tata Consultancy Services Ltd., the
biggest software exporter. He also owns shares of ITC Ltd., the
top cigarette maker. Foreigners own at least 14.6 percent of the
three companies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Zero Chance’  Chowdhry said there’s “zero” chance the government will
meet its asset-sale target without purchases by Life Insurance
Corp. of India and other state-owned institutions amid subdued
demand from overseas funds.  The government plans to raise 300 billion rupees from stake
sales in the year that began April 1, Thomas Mathew, a joint
secretary for  capital markets  in the  finance ministry , said June
18. India’s budget deficit reached 5.8 percent of GDP in the
year ended March. Emerging economies tracked by the
 International Monetary Fund  have an estimated 2012 deficit of
2.1 percent.  India raised about 139 billion rupees from asset sales in
the year ended March, missing its 400 billion rupees target.  The government may sell stake in one state-owned company
next month,  disinvestment  secretary Mohammad Haleem Khan said in
New Delhi today. Achieving the goal of raising 300 billion
rupees shouldn’t be a problem, he said.  “It is unlikely that there would be significant demand for
divestment assets by the Indian government unless there is a
significant markdown in prices,”  John Praveen , chief investment
strategist at Prudential International, a unit of  Prudential
Financial Inc., which managed $943 billion in assets as of March
31, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  