-- Ex-Apple Designer Says Samsung Phones Mimic IPhone Patent
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-08-07T19:48:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/former-apple-designer-kare-testifies-at-samsung-patent-trial.html
The former  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  graphics
designer who invented the smiling computer icon for the original
Macintosh testified that the application screen on  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  phones is “substantially similar” to the
iPhone design patented by Apple.  Susan Kare, who began her career at Apple in 1982 as a
screen graphics and digital font designer, was called today as
witness by the company in its multibillion-dollar patent trial
against Samsung in federal court in  San Jose ,  California .  Kare told the jury the phones are so similar that she
picked one up while visiting the office of Apple’s lawyers and
mistook a Samsung phone for an iPhone.  “I would usually think of myself as someone who is pretty
granular in looking at graphics and I mistook one for the
other,” Kare said. “In addition to my formal analysis, I had
the experience of being confused.”  Apple and Samsung are the world’s largest makers of the
high-end handheld devices that blend the functionality of a
phone and a computer. The trial is the first before a U.S. jury
in a battle being waged on four continents for dominance in a
smartphone market valued by Bloomberg Industries at $219.1
billion. Each company is trying to convince jurors at the trial
that its rival infringed patents covering designs and
technology.  Kare’s Testimony  Apple is using Kare’s testimony to advance its claims that
Samsung phones infringe the software design of the iPhone. The
company started making that argument last week with with witness
 Scott Forstall , the company’s senior vice president in charge of
iPhone and iPad software, and continued yesterday with testimony
from a paid expert witness, industrial designer Peter Bressler.  Apple seeks $2.5 billion for its claims that Samsung
infringed patents. Samsung, based in Suwon,  South Korea ,
countersued and will present claims that Apple is infringing two
patents covering mobile-technology standards and three utility
patents. Apple, based in Cupertino, California, also wants to
make permanent a preliminary ban it won on U.S. sales of a
Samsung tablet, and extend the ban to Samsung smartphones.  Kare, in a June court filing, said Apple asked her to
testify about “visual appearances of design” depicted in an
Apple patent to support the claims, or elements, of the
company’s intellectual property. She was asked to explain
possible alternatives to the protected design, and the
relationship between functionality and visual appearances of
designs, according to the filing.  Samsung Phones  Today, when Kare was shown at least 10 Samsung phones in
court, she said the application screens on all of them are
“substantially similar overall” to that described in Apple’s
patent.  “The similarities I saw were the regular grid, the rows of
four icons, the colorful mix of icons that are square with
rounded corners,” she said.  In addition to patent infringement, Apple contends that
Samsung’s copying of the look of the iPhone and iPad has diluted
the values of its iconic brands. To prove infringement of the
trademarked look, Apple must prove that consumers are confused
as to which company makes the phone or tablet computer.  Kare is at least the second Apple witness to testify about
customer confusion. Yesterday, Bressler told the jury about data
in a report showing that the most common reason some Best Buy
Co. customers return Samsung’s Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet computer
is because they thought they had bought the iPad 2.  Cross-Examination  During cross-examination, Samsung’s attorney, Charles K. Verhoeven, showed Kare a Samsung phone and asked her to walk him
through the steps required to arrive at the application screen
she was asked to analyze. When he turned it on, “Samsung”
illuminated. After it was electronically unlocked, Verhoeven
demonstrated, through Kare, that a customer had to navigate the
phone’s home screen to get to the application screen.  “Wouldn’t you agree that by the time the consumer turns on
the phone, and goes through the steps we looked at, seeing the
Samsung sign prominently for several seconds,” Verhoeven asked,
“that the consumer knows it’s a Samsung phone?”  “I’m not an expert in consumer behavior, and that kind of
user experience,” Kare replied. “I’m really focused on graphic
user interface, so I’m not sure I’m qualified to answer that.”  Kare, now at Susan Kare User Interface Graphics in San
Francisco, has done images for  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) , according to her website.  The Museum of  Modern Art  in  New York  City has called Kare a
“pioneering and influential computer iconographer,” according
to her website. Her work uses a “minimalist grid of pixels”
constructed with “mosaic-like precision,” according to the
site.  “Good icons should be more like road signs than
illustrations, easily comprehensible, and not cluttered with
extraneous detail,” Kare said on her website. “Just because
millions of colors are available, every one need not be used in
every icon.”  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  