-- Indonesian Tin Smelters Halt Output Amid Bear-Market Rout
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2012-08-07T12:03:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/fourteen-indonesian-tin-smelters-halt-output-as-prices-fall-1-.html
As many as 14 tin smelters in
 Indonesia  halted production after prices fell into a  bear
market , while others scaled back operations, according to an
industry group and executives in the world’s largest shipper.
Tin rallied.  “Current prices cannot cover production costs anymore,”
Hidayat Arsani, president of the Indonesian Tin Mining
Association, said in a phone interview from Pangkal Pinang,
Bangka-Belitung province today. “There are 28 smelters in
Bangka and about half have stopped production.” He declined to
identify the companies or specify their output.  Indonesia accounts for about 40 percent of global exports,
and lower output may help to arrest the price slump.  PT Timah (TINS) ,
Indonesia’s largest producer, has curbed sales to the  spot
market , President Director Sukrisno said on Aug. 3. Tin tumbled
30 percent from this year’s high in February to yesterday’s
close as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and a slowdown in  China 
cut demand, meeting the common definition of a bear market.  “Production cuts at major producers in the country can
boost prices in the short term,” Lelia Kim, a metals trader at
Tong Yang Securities Inc., said by phone from  Seoul . “It is
unlikely to become a long-term supporting factor for prices as
the market is more sensitive to macro-economic swings.”  Tin gained as much as 2.1 percent to $18,220 a metric ton
on the London Metal Exchange, and traded at $18,200 at 8:01 p.m.
in  Singapore . The metal, used in electronics and packaging,
closed at $17,345 on July 25, the lowest settlement since 2010.  Ore Supplies  The fall in prices has forced so-called traditional miners
to close operations, cutting ore supplies to smelters, according
to Johan Murod, commissioner at PT Tommy Utama, a Belitung-based
smelter. Tommy Utama has also stopped output, he said today.  While some smelters are still operating, they have scaled
back output to ease costs, Sukito Gunawan, a director at PT DS
Jaya Abadi, said today. Jaya Abadi is producing at only about 60
percent of capacity, he said, declining to give a volume.  PT Koba Tin, unit of  Malaysia Smelting Corp. (SMELT) , is still
operational and will meet shareholders soon to discuss market
conditions, said Joni A. Rahman, a spokesman. Production may
reach only 80 percent of this year’s target of 6,000 tons if
prices stay low, he said in an interview.  Smelters in Indonesia jointly backed voluntary curbs on
shipments in the final quarter of last year in a bid to drive
the price back to $25,000. While stockpiles monitored by the LME
plunged 43 percent in the three-month period, futures fell 5.7
percent. The action was officially ended on Dec. 31. The latest
stoppages aren’t coordinated, according to Hidayat.  LME Stockpiles  Tin stockpiles stood at 11,705 tons, according to data from
the LME today. That compares with 12,190 tons at the end of last
year, and 21,350 tons on Sept. 30, before last year’s voluntary
curbs began.  PT Timah has no plans to cut production and will build up
stockpiles while maintaining contract sales, Sukrisno said in
the Aug. 3 interview. The company’s output may climb to 45,000
tons this year from 38,000 tons in 2011, he said last month.  The global tin market faces a third deficit this year,
according to a July 12 report from Barclays Plc, which projects
a shortage of 7,000 tons. The price may rally toward year-end as
demand improves, Barclays said.  The impact on the price will depend on the volume removed
and how long production has been closed,  David Lennox , a
resource analyst at Fat Prophets in Sydney, said in an e-mail in
response to Bloomberg questions. Neither is known, he wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  