-- GameStop Magazine Growth Vaults It Past Better Homes & Gardens
-- B y   K e l l y   B l e s s i n g
-- 2012-08-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/gamestop-magazine-s-growth-vaults-it-past-better-homes-gardens.html
Game Informer , a video-game
publication owned by  GameStop (GME)  Corp., increased its paid 
circulation more than any other U.S. magazine in the past
year by tying subscriptions to discounts with the retailer.  The monthly magazine’s circulation jumped 37 percent from a
year earlier to 8.2 million copies as of June 30, pushing it
past  Better Homes & Gardens  magazine to make it the third-
largest magazine in the U.S., the  Audit Bureau of Circulations 
said yesterday in a  statement .  Meredith Corp. (MDP) ’s Family Circle
saw the second-largest increase in circulation among the top 25
magazines, at 7.4 percent.  GameStop, the world’s largest specialty video-game
retailer, bucked declining industry circulation by offering Game
Informer subscriptions tied to a loyalty card. The PowerUp
Rewards Pro card, which provides discounts on games, normally
costs $14.99 a year. It comes for free with a Game Informer
subscription at the same price.  “That’s been the biggest driver for the increase in
subscribers,”  Michael Pachter , an analyst for Los Angeles-based
Wedbush Securities Inc., said in a phone interview. “All of a
sudden people who actively use game players and shop at the
store have an incentive to subscribe to the magazine.”  IPad Version  GameStop began heavily promoting the loyalty card in
September, Pachter said. The company also has added versions of
the magazine for Apple Inc.’s iPad and tablets running Google
Inc.’s Android software.  Game Informer, which was first published in 1991, was
acquired by  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  in 2000 as part of  its takeover
of Funco Inc.  Funco changed its name to GameStop and was spun
off from Barnes & Noble in 2004.  “Game Informer’s growth in circulation reflects a
culmination of the popularity of video games, Game Informer’s
partnership with the successful GameStop PowerUp Rewards
program, and last but not least, a high-in-quality 21-year
publication that tries not to miss a beat,” Rob Borm, associate
publisher at the magazine, said in an e-mail.  Industrywide magazine circulation, including paid
subscriptions and newsstand sales, fell 0.1 percent, the Audit
Bureau said. Newsstand sales dropped 10 percent in the period.  GameStop, based in Grapevine,  Texas , jumped 5 percent to
$16.81 yesterday in New York, the biggest one-day gain in more
than a year. Shares of  Des Moines , Iowa-based Meredith rose 3.3
percent to $34.85, its largest increase in two months.  Game Informer trailed only the  American Association  of
Retired Persons’ AARP The Magazine and AARP Bulletin in total
circulation. Game Informer led in circulation for digital
editions of magazines, with 1.2 million copies. That was up more
than fivefold from a year earlier.  Articles in Game Informer’s September issue will include a
feature on “Army of Two: The Devil’s Cartel,” a title under
development by  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) , and a roundup of the top 30
games where players work together, according to the magazine’s
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Blessing in  New York  at 
 kblessing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  