-- Gasoline Rises to 12-Week High on Supply Concerns, Brent Rally
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-08-07T19:28:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/gasoline-advances-as-ernesto-chevron-fire-may-reduce-supplies.html
Gasoline rose to a 12-week high as
refinery shutdowns increased supply concerns and stronger  Brent
crude  boosted the cost of shipments of fuel from abroad and
imported oil used at U.S. plants.  Futures gained as a fire that shut the crude unit at
 Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s Richmond refinery in California follows outages
in the Midwest and  Gulf Coast . Prices broke above $3 a gallon
for the first time since May as Brent advanced to a two-month
month high. North Sea oil shipments are poised to fall 7 percent
next month.  “You’ve had a lot of refining issues and now you have West
Coast problems,” said  Andrew Lebow , a senior vice president at
Jefferies Bache LLC in  New York . “Brent has been very strong as
maintenance has really left a handful of cargos to trade and
there’s backwardation in the Brent market.”  Gasoline for September delivery rose 6.91 cents, or 2.4
percent, to $2.9913 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the highest settlement since May 11.  Brent oil for September settlement advanced $2.45 to $112 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Brent’s
premium over U.S. benchmark West Texas Intermediate oil widened
98 cents to $18.33 a barrel.  “The Brent spread moving above $18 is why you’re seeing
products moving out more,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and
broker at Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut.  Technical Rally  Gasoline touched $3.0088 as the front-month contract traded
above the 100-day moving average for the first time since May 4.  “Breaking through the 100-day is huge from a technical
view,” said  Michael Smith , president of T&K Futures & Options
in Port Saint Lucie,  Florida . “It wouldn’t surprise me to see
it run up another 20 cents just like that.”  Chevron’s 240,000-barrel-a-day refinery shut its crude unit
after a fire yesterday and has no estimate for restarting it.
Hurricane Ernest developed today in the Caribbean off the
eastern coast of Mexico’s Yucatan Peninsula, according to the
 National Weather Service . A disruption to Mexican oil output
could boost demand for fuel exports from the Gulf Coast.  “There could be some Mexican production shut down due to
the hurricane,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at Price
Futures Group in Chicago. The fire at Chevron Richmond “could
mean a large percent of West Coast refining capacity is offline
in the aftermath of all the problems we had in the Chicago
Midwest area.”  PADD 5, which covers the U.S. West Coast, has 3.03 million
barrels a day of operable refinery capacity, or 18 percent of
total U.S. capacity, according to Energy Department data. The
Richmond plant is about 7.9 percent of West Coast refining.  Heating oil for September delivery rose 5.71 cents, or 1.9
percent, to $2.998 a gallon on the exchange and touched $3.0085,
the highest intraday price since May 7.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, gained
1.5 cents to $3.634 a gallon yesterday, AAA data showed. That’s
the highest price since May 25. Prices have fallen 7.7 percent
from a 2012 high of $3.936 on April 4, according the nation’s
largest motoring organization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  