-- Gen Y Eschewing V-8 for 4G Threatens Auto Demand: Cars
-- B y   H a s a n   D u d a r   a n d   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 2012-08-07T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/gen-y-eschewing-v-8-for-4g-threatens-auto-demand-cars.html
The  auto industry  says it’s concerned
that financially pressed young people who connect online instead
of in person could hold down peak demand by 2 million units each
year.  The rate of U.S. auto sales to 18-to-34-year-old buyers
declined to 11 percent in April 2012, down from 17 percent for
the same age group in April 2007, before the recession,
according to Southfield, Michigan-based R.L. Polk & Co.  4G trumps V-8 for the 80 million U.S. consumers born from
1981 to 2001, according to Deloitte LLP. Though the car is still
a gateway to independence, Generation Y has more ways to connect
with the outside world than young buyers of past generations.  “A car is a symbol of freedom,” said  Alexander Edwards ,
president of the automotive division of Strategic Vision Inc., a
San Diego-based consumer-research firm. “But unlike previous
years, there are many different ways that a Gen Y person can
capture that freedom.”  At stake is whether the recovery in vehicle sales is
restrained by Gen Y. U.S. sales of cars and light trucks rose 14
percent to 8.43 million in the first seven months and are  on
pace  to total more than 14 million for 2012. That would be the
best year since 2007. That lags the annual average of 16.8
million from 2000 through 2007.  A combination of lower wages for the youngest workers and
the generation’s tendency to favor gadgets over cars may cap
average U.S. auto sales at about 15 million annually, said Dan Luria, a labor economist at  Michigan  Manufacturing Technology
Center in Plymouth, Michigan. The peak for sales was 2000 at
17.4 million cars and light trucks.  Technology ‘Wins’  “Now, technology not only competes” with cars, Luria said
in a telephone interview. “It competes and wins.”  The percentage of 20-to-24-year-olds with driver’s licenses
dropped to 81 percent in 2010, down from 92 percent for the same
age group in 1983, said Michael Sivak, a researcher with the
University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute.  Automakers have attempted to attract Gen Y buyers for
years.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  created its Scion brand for the group.
 Ford Motor Co. (F)  used  social media outlets  to promote its
introduction of the Fiesta subcompact.  General Motors Co. (GM)  has
set up programs with  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and  Viacom Inc. (VIA) ’s  MTV  to
train dealers in ways to attract young buyers.  “It’s no longer a foregone conclusion that we will be able
to sell cars to a large and emerging demographic,”  Mark Fields ,
Ford’s president of the Americas, said in a January speech at a
Deloitte conference in  Detroit  about Gen Y buyers. “If we’re
going to continue to grow as an industry and as a company, it’s
really important we reach this consumer.”  Cash-Strapped  Young people have been slow to buy cars in weak economies,
and have settled on used models or alternatives to driving. For
most Gen Y buyers, also known as Millennials, skipping a vehicle
purchase is preferable to forgoing technology. Smartphones,
laptops and tablet devices compete for their dollars and are
higher priorities than vehicle purchases, said Joe Vitale, an
automotive consultant with Deloitte.  Financing, parking, servicing and insuring a vehicle all
add up to a commitment that cash-strapped Millennials aren’t
ready to make, he said.  “A vehicle is really a discretionary purchase and a
secondary need versus an iPhone, mobile phone or personal
computer,” Vitale said.  Jordan Wesolek, a Blue Man Group front-office worker from
Chicago, said he pays $300 a year for  Internet service  and is
saving his extra cash for a $2,199 MacBook Pro laptop from  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)   ‘Not There’  The 23-year-old sound tech, who rides his fixed-gear bike
to work, said he isn’t thinking about buying a car anytime soon.  “Right now, I couldn’t do it,” said Wesolek, who recently
invested almost $500 for a new wheel and other parts to
refurbish a bike he originally bought for $120. “And the desire
to own a car is just not there.”  Technology, a weak economy and urban living are leading to
fewer young people obtaining licenses, Sivak said.  “The cultural trend is a consequence of the available
technology,” Sivak said in a telephone interview. “Given that
you now have the option and it is convenient, the Internet is
currently replacing physical contact.”  Wesolek, who relies on his  iPhone  to communicate on the
job, said it’s not practical for him to buy a car. Something
from his budget -- rent, utilities, food, Internet,  student
loans  -- would have to give.  “I would say, definitely, a data plan and all that would
play a bigger role for me than actually driving a car,” Wesolek
said.  ‘Necessary Evil’  Millennials living in big cities with reliable public
transit don’t see the need for owning a car, even for weekend
trips to visit friends or family, Luria said. Those who do drive
can turn to companies such as  Zipcar Inc. (ZIP)  that provide hourly
car rentals.  For Gen Y consumers who can afford to shop for vehicles,
many want their cars to be connected to the Internet. They’re
willing to pay more than $3,000 for in-dash features and
connectivity capabilities, according to the Deloitte survey.  For Bryan Espey, 26, who works marketing for a check-
printing company in Lenexa,  Kansas , the decision between a 2012
Ford Focus Titanium and a  Volkswagen (VOW)  Golf TDI came down to which
made it easier to play the Spotify Internet music service from
his Android phone, he said. He chose the Focus.  “I would prefer a carless life,” said Espey, who needs a
car for his 30-minute commute to work. “I don’t enjoy paying
for it. It’s kind of a necessary evil.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hasan Dudar in  New York  at 
 hdudar@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  