-- German Factory Orders Fall Twice as Much as Forecast
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-08-07T10:36:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/german-factory-orders-fall-twice-as-much-as-forecast.html
German factory orders declined more
than twice as much as economists forecast in June as sales to
euro-area countries slumped.  Orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation, dropped
1.7 percent from May, when they rose 0.7 percent, the Economy
Ministry in Berlin said today. Economists forecast a 0.8 percent
decline, according to the median of 35 estimates in a  Bloomberg
News survey . From a year earlier, orders fell 7.8 percent when
adjusted for work days.  Today’s report is the latest to show  Europe ’s largest
economy is cooling as the sovereign debt crisis erodes demand
for its goods, hurting earnings at companies including
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , Daimler AG and Siemens AG. While
the Bundesbank last month estimated moderate growth in the
second quarter, aided by domestic spending, the manufacturing
industry is contracting and business confidence fell for a third
straight month in July.  “All in all, quite a gloomy report,” said Annalisa Piazza, an economist at Newedge Strategy in  London . “Exports
are badly hit by the current cyclical slowdown and the export-
led German industrial sector is not going to be spared from the
slump in trade activity.”  The euro was little changed after the report, trading at
$1.2405 at 12:10 p.m. in  Frankfurt .  Euro-Area Orders  Orders from the euro region sank 4.9 percent in June after
jumping 7.8 percent in May, today’s report showed. Domestic
orders fell 2.1 percent, while demand from non-euro nations rose
0.6 percent. The economy ministry said overall orders in the
second quarter “slightly” exceeded those in the first quarter
and there is currently no clear trend.  Rising wages and unemployment at a two-decade low are
supporting domestic spending, helping to offset waning export
demand. The Bundesbank in June predicted German growth of 1
percent this year. By contrast, the European Commission
forecasts a 0.3 percent contraction for the 17-nation euro
economy as a whole.  With the global economy cooling and the debt crisis hurting
spending in the euro region, German companies are feeling the
pinch.  Daimler, the world’s third-largest maker of  luxury
vehicles , last month reported a 13 percent decline in second-
quarter operating profit. Volkswagen AG, Europe’s largest car
maker and the owner of the Audi brand, on July 26 reported
slowing earnings growth as the impact of the debt crisis weighed
on demand in its home region.  ‘Flattish Growth’  “Global economic conditions might deteriorate in the face
of the euro crisis and high government debt,” BMW Chief
Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer  said on Aug. 1 after the
company reported its first drop in quarterly operating profit in
almost three years.  “ Germany  can’t escape the crisis and that has been shown
by a consistent deterioration in recent data,” said  Nick Kounis , chief European economist at ABN Amro Bank NV in
Amsterdam. “At the same time, the country will not fall into a
massive recession. It’ll be a long, drawn-out period of flattish
growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  