-- MGM Rises After Reporting Narrower-Than-Forecast Loss
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-08-07T18:45:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/mgm-resorts-posts-second-quarter-loss-on-weakening-vegas.html
MGM Resorts International (MGM) , the
largest casino operator on the  Las Vegas Strip , posted a
smaller-than-expected second-quarter loss as gains in Macau
trumped Nevada weakness. The stock rose the most in nine months.  The loss was 12 cents a share, excluding some items related
to taxes and property transactions, Las Vegas-based MGM Resorts
said today in a statement. Analysts had projected a loss of 15
cents, based on 24  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales rose 29 percent to $2.32 billion, boosted by
inclusion of the company’s 51 percent owned MGM  China  Holdings
Ltd. subsidiary in the results for a full quarter, compared with
one month a year earlier. Analysts had anticipated $2.35
billion, on average.  “The miss in  Las Vegas  was more than offset by strength in
Macau,” Cameron McKnight, an analyst with Wells Fargo
Securities, said today in a research note.  Revenue at MGM Resorts’ wholly owned domestic resorts was
unchanged at $1.5 billion while casino winnings declined 1
percent, the company said. MGM China saw its sales climb 6
percent to $709 million in the quarter, driven in part by a 39
percent increase in slot machine revenue.  The stock gained 8.4 percent to $10.17 at 2:27 p.m. in  New
York , the biggest intraday increase since October 2011. The
shares had fallen 10 percent this year through yesterday.  MGM Resorts Chairman and Chief Executive James Murren said
the company began to see weakness in Las Vegas in May and the
company expects hotel revenue per available room to be
“slightly down” in the third quarter as a result.  “We saw a step back in the consumer in the second quarter;
so far at least it was a fairly finite and brief period,”
Murren said in a telephone interview. “The consumer just took a
breather. We can hypothesize all the reasons for that.”  Slots, Butterflies  MGM China’s results benefited from investments the company
made in  slot machines , its VIP gaming area and a butterfly
exhibit that has been attracting 50,000 visitors a month, Murren
said.  “I was a little dubious when it was presented to me,”
Murren said of the exhibit. “People are snaked around to get in
to it. It’s gotten an enormous amount of attention, particularly
in mainland China.”  Industrywide casino revenues on the Las Vegas Strip fell 18
percent to $475.1 million in May, according to the Nevada  Gaming
Control Board . Casinos kept the lowest percentage of blackjack
bets ever that month, according Michael Lawton, a senior analyst
for the board.  Macau Revenue  In Macau, the only part of China where gambling is legal,
industry casino revenue has increased 17 percent this year
through July, according to the city’s Gaming Inspection and
Coordination Bureau.  “Given the recent declines in shares, the relief rally is
not surprising given the tepid results were better than
feared,” Rachael Rothman, an analyst at Susquehanna
International Financial Group, said today in a research note.  The net loss was $145.5 million, or 30 cents a share,
compared with net income of $3.44 billion, or $6.22, in the
year-earlier period, when results included a $3.5 billion gain
on the acquisition of a controlling stake in  MGM China Holdings
Ltd. (2282)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  