-- Goldman Joins JPMorgan in Promising Better Japan Controls
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-08-08T01:20:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/goldman-sachs-among-firms-pledging-better-controls-to-japan-fsa.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  were among banks that pledged to improve how they
guard client information in  Japan  amid an insider trading
scandal that toppled  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ’s top two executives.  Goldman Sachs plans to train employees on ethics from
November through February, and last month began programs on
maintaining confidentiality, the New York-based bank said in a
statement on its website yesterday. JPMorgan plans to increase
compliance staff in Japan and boost monitoring of communication
between employees to avoid leaks, it said in a statement.  The securities firms are trying to curb the fallout after
the financial watchdog’s investigation arm concluded that staff
at three firms including Nomura leaked information ahead of
clients’ share sales in 2010, eroding their credibility. The
Financial Services Agency last month asked 12 investment banks
to report on how they manage the data.  “You can’t restore confidence overnight,” said Takao Saga, a professor at  Waseda University  in  Tokyo  and commissioner
at the Japan Securities Research Institute. “Whether training
or monitoring will work remains to be seen, as employees have
been leaking inside information knowing that they may be
breaching rules.”  Nomura and Daiwa also submitted reports pledging to improve
how they manage corporate information, as did  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch, UBS AG and  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)  The
securities watchdog had concluded that staff at Daiwa and
JPMorgan also tipped traders ahead of deals.  Dismissal Risk  Goldman Sachs is telling staff they may be fired if they
leak inside information, Hiroko Matsumoto, a Tokyo-based
spokeswoman, said yesterday. The Wall Street firm employed about
850 staff at its Japanese brokerage unit as of March 31.  “Getting employees to understand that rule breaches mean
they will lose jobs or end their careers will have an important
influence,” Saga said.  Japan’s FSA ordered Nomura on Aug. 3 to improve its
business after it failed to prevent staff from providing tips to
traders on at least three share sales in 2010. The scandal led
to Koji Nagai replacing Kenichi Watanabe as chief executive
officer on Aug. 1, a month after the firm released a report
revealing that equity sales staff appeared to be “willing to do
anything” to meet revenue targets. Atsushi Yoshikawa replaced
Takumi Shibata as chief operating officer.  Brokerages Fall  The 19-stock  Topix Securities and Commodity Futures Index 
rose 1.2 percent at 10 a.m. in Tokyo. The gauge has fallen 25
percent since the first case of leaks was revealed on March 21,
more than the benchmark  Topix Index (TPX) ’s 12 percent drop.  Being embroiled in the country’s information-leaking cases
has also led to lost business as companies and government
agencies distance themselves from tainted firms. Nomura was
removed from a lead role Japan Airlines Co.’s $8.5 billion
initial public offering, people with knowledge of the situation
said on July 18. It also lost its rank as Japan’s No. 1 bond
underwriter last month as issuers dropped the bank.  Daiwa also lost at least one bond deal, when  Kawasaki Heavy
Industries Ltd. (7012)  excluded it from managing a sale on July 2.  Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., a Tokyo-based
brokerage venture between  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) 
and Morgan Stanley, said yesterday it also plans to improve
compliance measures as part of the FSA review. The brokerage
will tighten oversight of costs related to entertaining clients
and is considering issuing recordable mobile phones to some
staff in its sales and research divisions, it said yesterday in
a statement on its website.  Pay Cuts  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) , Japan’s third-biggest bank by
market value, said it will strengthen oversight of information
between departments at its investment banking unit and more
closely monitor e-mails.  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) ’s SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. unit will increase the liability of employees
who breach compliance rules, it said yesterday on its website.
SMBC Nikko President Eiji Watanabe and Chairman Shigenobu Aikyo
will have their pay cut by 30 percent for four months, the
company said, following the June arrest of a former executive on
suspicion of aiding  insider trading .  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s local brokerage unit said it plans to
improve information safeguards by clarifying policies on how it
manages corporate information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  