-- Goldman Sachs’s MIST Topping BRICs as Smaller Markets Outperform
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-08-07T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/goldman-sachs-s-mist-topping-brics-as-smaller-markets-outperform.html
Jim O’Neill  ushered in a decade-long
investment boom in 2001 when he coined the term  BRICs  for the
largest emerging markets. This year, a lesser-known acronym that
the Goldman Sachs Asset Management chairman is helping to
popularize has taken over for many investors.  The so-called MIST nations -- Mexico, Indonesia, South
Korea and Turkey -- are the four biggest markets in the  Goldman
Sachs N-11 Equity Fund. (GSYAX)  Opened in February, 2011 to invest in
what O’Neill considers the next big 11 emerging markets, the
fund has climbed 12 percent this year, compared with a 1.5
percent gain in Goldman Sachs’s  fund  for Brazil, Russia, India
and China.  “We see steady inflows into the Next 11 fund each week,”
O’Neill, 55, said in a phone interview from London. “It hasn’t
been affected by the disappointment in the U.S. and obviously
the European markets especially, and all the disappointment in
some of the BRIC markets.”  O’Neill said he came up with the idea for an N-11 fund on a
trip to China and  South Korea  two years ago as a way to help
investors benefit from growth beyond the BRIC nations that had
dominated emerging markets investing. With populations that for
the most part are younger than the U.S. and Europe and have
higher birth rates, fueling economic expansion, the N-11 nations
are emerging from the shadow of the BRICs, where growth is
slowing and investors are pulling out funds.  Outpacing BRIC  The MIST economies more than doubled in size in the past
decade, topping Germany last year. In Mexico, Latin America’s
second-biggest economy, record auto exports are helping growth
outpace Brazil’s for a second year amid waning Chinese demand
for the South American nation’s commodities. Indonesia’s
domestic spending and investment helped the nation’s economic
growth accelerate to 6.37 percent in the second quarter,
surprising economists who forecast a slowdown.  Besides the MIST nations, the N-11 countries include
Bangladesh, Egypt, Nigeria, Pakistan, the Philippines and
Vietnam. Iran is also a member, though Goldman Sachs says its
fund doesn’t invest in Iran because it isn’t an open market for
foreign investors. The nation is subject to sanctions imposed by
the U.S. and European Union over its nuclear program.  Goldman Sachs’s N-11 fund has beaten 93 percent of U.S.-
based emerging-market equity funds this year, while the BRIC
fund has lagged 89 percent of them, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The N-11 fund has still trailed its benchmark, the
 MSCI GDP Weighted Next 11 ex-Iran Index , which has climbed 17
percent this year. The  MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC)  has risen 1.7 percent
this year, more than the 1.5 percent gain for the Goldman Sachs
BRIC fund.  Fuelling Growth  While outperforming them in growth this year, the MIST
nations don’t approach the BRICs in economic output or
population. Total GDP for the MIST nations was $3.9 trillion
last year, less than one third of the $13.5 trillion BRIC
economies and compared with $7.3 trillion for China alone,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In population, the MIST
nations have fewer than 500 million people, compared with about
2.9 billion in the BRIC nations.  Goldman Sachs’s  N-11 fund  had $113 million in assets and
was invested in 73 stocks at the end of the second quarter,
while the New York-based bank’s  BRIC fund  had $410 million in
assets and held 72 stocks.  While O’Neill isn’t involved in either fund’s management,
they were built to capture economic growth in the nations he
identified as likely to make the greatest increased contribution
to global GDP. The MIST nations accounted for about 73 percent
of N-11 GDP last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Paying Off  The investment strategy is paying off. Mexico’s benchmark
 IPC Index (MEXBOL)  has climbed 11 percent this year, compared with a 2.8
percent gain in  Brazil’s Bovespa. (IBOV)  Turkey’s  ISE National 100
Index (XU100)  has surged 28 percent and  Indonesia’s Jakarta Composite
Index (JCI)  has gained 7.4 percent, while  South Korea’s Kospi (KOSPI)  has
increased 3.3 percent.  The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  is the best-performing among
BRICs equity benchmarks, increasing 13 percent, compared with a
2.6 percent gain in Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  and a 2 percent drop in
the  Shanghai Composite Index. (SHCOMP)  By comparison, the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  is up 11 percent this year, while the  Stoxx
Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  has climbed 9.1 percent.  “You’ve seen a rotation in the leadership based on rate of
economic growth,” said Paul Christopher, the St. Louis-based
chief international strategist at Wells Fargo Advisors, the
third-largest U.S. brokerage with $1.2 trillion in client
assets. “If you go back as far as just 2009, you’ll find people
buying the BRIC story in a big way, and probably over-buying the
BRIC story.”  Pouring in Money  Investors poured about $67 billion into BRIC stocks from
2001 to 2010 as they beat the S&P 500 by 281 percentage points.
They withdrew about $15 billion last year, the most on an annual
basis since at least 1996, according to Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based research firm EPFR Global.  Still, equity funds investing in the MIST nations haven’t
been immune from global growth concern. While investors added a
net $104 million to funds focused on Turkey and $123 million to
Indonesian funds this year through Aug. 1, they withdrew $1.33
billion from South Korea and $115 million from Mexico, EPFR
says.  The MIST nations each account for at least 1 percent of
global GDP and are likely to see that share increase this
decade, O’Neill said. Of the four countries, O’Neill said Mexico
and Turkey are the most attractive at the moment.  Low-Cost  Mexico is increasingly competing with China for
manufacturing as costs climb in the Asian nation, O’Neill said.
Mexico’s economy grew 4.6 percent in the first three months of
2012, the fastest pace in six quarters, on increased shipments
to the U.S.  America Movil SAB (AMXL) , the wireless carrier controlled
by billionaire  Carlos Slim , the world’s richest person according
to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index , was the top holding in the
N-11 fund at 7.9 percent at the end of June.  Brazil, which grew at an average 3.7 percent annual rate
from 2000 through 2010, trumping Mexico’s 2.1 percent expansion,
is forecast to grow less than 3 percent for a second straight
year in 2012, according to the median estimate of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Wells Fargo’s Christopher advised investors to sell stocks
in the BRIC nations at points in the first half of the year and
recommends buying equities in Indonesia, where economic growth
has  exceeded 6 percent  for seven quarters. Plans by the
government in Southeast Asia’s largest economy to build
railways, airports and seaports to bind its islands closer
together are helping to counter a slowdown in European demand
for commodities exports.  Christopher also recommends buying stocks in South Korea,
which he says will benefit from rising exports as China’s
domestic spending climbs.  Credit Rating  Fitch Ratings and Moody’s Investors Service have raised
Indonesia’s debt to investment grade in the past eight months,
with Fitch increasing it to BBB- in December and Moody’s lifting
it to Baa3 in January.  The credit outlook in India is moving in the opposite
direction. India’s  economy grew  5.3 percent in the first
quarter, the least in nine years, and S&P warns that the country
may be downgraded unless growth picks up and political
roadblocks to decision-making are overcome. A blackout left 640
million people in India without light on July 31, a day after a
separate power cut left 360 million people without electricity.  India is suffering from “an absence of effective
leadership,” O’Neill said. “India always is very proud of the
fact it’s the biggest democracy in the world, but as I
frequently joke with them, India’s democracy is so good that it
doesn’t work.”  A phone call to the Indian embassy in Washington seeking
comment wasn’t immediately returned.  Open Economies  With the exception of China, all the MIST nations ranked
higher on the Geneva-based  World Economic Forum’s 2012 trade
openness index  than the BRIC countries. While South Korea was
ranked 34 out of 132 and Indonesia 58th, Russia trailed in
position 112 and India at 100.  Turkish stocks have rallied after the government cut its
fiscal deficit to 1.3 percent of GDP last year from 3.6 percent
in 2010, garnering a credit rating upgrade by Moody’s on June 20
to Ba1, one level below investment grade.  Russia’s $1.8 trillion economy, after unexpectedly
accelerating in the first quarter, is feeling the squeeze from
oil prices that plunged as much as 22 percent this year. The
price of crude pared its losses in July and is now down 6.7
percent since the end of December. Russia relies on oil and gas
exports for half of its budget revenue.  Russia’s Economy  Former finance minister  Alexei Kudrin  said on May 24 that
Russia’s economy has a 50 percent chance of slipping into
recession due to the crisis in Europe, the buyer of more than
half its exports. Russia’s gross domestic product may grow as
much as 4 percent this year, more than the government’s previous
projection of 3.4 percent, Economy Minister Andrei Belousov said
on July 20.  While O’Neill includes South Korea in the MIST grouping,
the nation differs from the other three in demographics,
development and wealth. Known as one of the Asian Tigers as it
grew an average 9 percent from the 1970s until the Asian
financial crisis in 1997, South Korea will expand 2.9 percent
this year, according to the median estimate of analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Aging Society  South Korea lacks the youth that O’Neill says will help
drive growth in the other MIST nations. Only about 16 percent of
South Korea’s population is under the age of 15, compared with
at least 25 percent in Mexico, Indonesia and Turkey, according
to  estimates  by the New York-based United Nations.  South Korea “happens to be the only populated country that
in my lifetime has transformed its income from that of an
African country to being that of a G-7 country,” O’Neill said.
“It’s an example that all these other countries can learn
from.”  The MIST nations may not outperform the BRICs for long,
especially now that China’s government is stepping in to prime
the economy, O’Neill said. Moreover, the Shanghai Composite’s
decline has left it valued at  9.6 times estimated profit ,
compared with the three-year average of 14.7. The MSCI BRIC
Index trades for about  9 times estimated profit , compared with
13.5 times for the S&P 500, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Economic Weight  The recent  underperformance  in BRIC equities isn’t reason
to give up on the long-term potential of economies that grew at
an average pace four times faster than the U.S. from 2001
through 2010, O’Neill said. He forecasts that the BRIC nations
will grow an average of about 6.5 percent a year through 2020,
compared with 5.5 percent for the N-11 group.  O’Neill says he has three times turned down requests from
Goldman Sachs salespeople to start a fund focused only on the
MIST countries, and not only for economic reasons.  “You get very large exposure to them in the N-11 fund,”
O’Neill said. “I’m also quite cognizant of not going down in
history as being the guy that just constantly created
acronyms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eric Martin  in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 