-- Goldman Sachs Recommends French Wheat on Export Outlook
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-08-07T13:51:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/goldman-sachs-recommends-french-wheat-on-export-outlook-1-.html
Wheat traded in Paris may rise
relative to futures in Chicago as prospects of declining
production in the former  Soviet Union  mean  Europe  is likely to
gain export market share, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  Goldman Sachs recommended buying wheat for delivery in
March 2013 on NYSE Liffe in Paris, against a bearish bet for
March 2013 wheat on the Chicago Board of Trade, New York-based
analyst Damien Courvalin said today in an e-mailed report. CBOT
wheat prices have surged 41 percent since the end of May,
bolstered by drought in the U.S., while Paris wheat climbed 23
percent in the same period.  Russia  and Ukraine, which also have suffered from dry
weather this year, face “potential for export restrictions” on
grain, Courvalin said. In 2010, Paris wheat surged 92 percent,
outpacing a 47 percent gain in  Chicago  futures, after the worst
drought in 50 years spurred Russia to halt exports for 10
months.  “With CBOT wheat prices trading at a premium to  Black Sea 
and EU wheat prices despite higher freight costs, we expect this
export demand to initially be directed to EU-27 wheat
supplies,” Courvalin said. Shipments from both the EU and the
U.S. may be larger than the  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
currently estimates, he said.  The U.S. is expected to be the world’s biggest wheat
exporter this year, followed by  Australia ,  Canada , the 27-
country bloc of the European Union, and Russia, according to the
USDA.  World Production  Global wheat production may total 652.1 million metric tons
in the 2012-13 season, less than the USDA’s July forecast of
665.3 million tons, as smaller harvests in Russia,  Kazakhstan ,
Argentina and China offset increasing output in the U.S., EU and
Canada, Courvalin wrote. The USDA is scheduled to update its
outlook on Aug. 10.  Goldman pegged global wheat inventories, excluding China
and India, at 93.7 million tons, the lowest since the 2007-08
season, according to the report.  U.S. corn production may be 10.75 million bushels, below
the USDA’s forecast of 12.97 million, Courvalin said. Demand for
wheat used in livestock feed may increase in coming months as
drought slashes corn supplies, he said.  “A further deterioration in weather conditions, potential
FSU export restrictions and pent-up import demand create risks
that global wheat inventories decline even more than we
expect,” Courvalin said. “Such an outcome in the face of
inelastic food demand would likely push wheat prices sharply
higher and well above corn prices to price wheat out of feed
demand.”  The bank reiterated its forecasts for CBOT wheat prices at
$9.80 a bushel in three months, $8.75 in six months and $7.75 in
12 months. The December contract traded today at $9.09.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  