-- Google, Oracle Must Disclose Writer Payments, Judge Says
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-08-08T01:23:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/google-oracle-must-disclose-payments-to-bloggers-judge-rules.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and their
attorneys must disclose payments made to authors, journalists
and bloggers who have reported or published comments on Oracle’s
copyright-infringement case over Android software, a judge
ruled.  U.S. District Judge William Alsup in  San Francisco  ordered
both sides to file a statement by Aug. 17 identifying any
writers who received money during the lawsuit, saying he is
“concerned” that the companies or their lawyers retained or
paid Internet or print authors writing about issues in the case,
according to a court filing today.  The disclosure is needed to make clear whether anything
written about the case is “possibly influenced by financial
relationships to the parties or counsel,” Alsup said in the
filing. Oracle and Google said they would comply with the order.  Eric Goldman , a Santa Clara University School of Law
professor and director of the school’s High Tech Law Institute,
said the order is unusual and onerous.  “I’ve never seen anything like this before,” Goldman said
in an e-mail. “In Google’s case, if it has to disclose
qualifying AdSense participants, we’re talking about hundreds of
thousands more bloggers to scrutinize.”  Google’s AdSense service lets websites such as blogs sell
space to advertisers. Goldman says he’s an AdSense customer
through his law blogs, and since he’s written on the case
Alsup’s order could encompass him since he’s received payments
from Google.  Alsup may have concerns about evidence or testimony in the
case that came from someone whose financial ties to the
companies wasn’t disclosed, Goldman said.  ‘Always Disclosed’  “Oracle has always disclosed all of its financial
relationships in this matter, and it is time for Google to do
the same,” said  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman for  Redwood
City , California-based Oracle, in an e-mail. “We read this
order to also include indirect payments to entities who, in
turn, made comments on behalf of Google.”  Florian Mueller, the author of the FOSS Patents blog, who
has written about the Oracle case against Google, disclosed
April 18 that Oracle had very recently become his consulting
client and that he would work with Oracle “for the long haul on
mostly competition-related topics.” He said he was an
independent analyst and blogger and would only state his
opinions, which can’t be attributed to clients.  Mueller didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail message
seeking comment on Alsup’s order.  Jim Prosser, a Google spokesman, said in an e-mail that the
company would comply with the order and declined to comment
further.  A jury found May 7 that  Mountain View , California-based
Google, owner of the world’s most-popular search engine,
infringed Oracle’s copyrights when it developed Android software
for mobile devices yet deadlocked on whether it was “fair
use,” denying Oracle the ability to seek as much as $1 billion
in damages from the search engine company. On May 23 the jury
found that Google didn’t infringe two Oracle patents.  The case is Oracle v. Google, 10-3561, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  