-- Grain Farmers Tap Viterra as Wheat Board Monopoly Ends
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-08-07T20:39:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/grain-farmers-tap-viterra-as-wheat-board-monopoly-ends.html
The first thing grain farmer Kent
Erickson does at 6 a.m. before irrigating his 2,000 acres of
wheat is check his BlackBerry for the latest grain prices from
buyers like  Viterra Inc. (VT)  With the end of the Canadian Wheat
Board’s 70-year-old monopoly last week, he can price, market and
sell his crops for the first time.  “Now that we have that ability as farmers, we’re able to
make those decisions on our own,” Erickson, 31, said by phone
from his 4,700-acre farm in  Irma,  Alberta, about 200 kilometers
(124 miles) from Edmonton. “That’s going to give us more profit
but it’s going to cause more chance for a loss too.”  For the country’s 75,000 grain farmers, the end of the
monopoly means for the first time they have options to shop
their wheat to the highest bidder as a global drought bolsters
prices. For companies such as  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , which
bought Regina, Saskatchewan-based Viterra Inc. for C$6.1 billion
($6.12 billion) in March, it means tapping into an export market
 worth  C$5.7 billion last year, the  third -largest in the world.  From 1935, the wheat board was the only game in town, the
sole body sanctioned to buy and sell grain for export from
Canada, the third-largest shipper of wheat after the U.S. and
the European Union. As the biggest wheat marketer worldwide, it
sold grain to more than 70 countries, generating C$6.07 billion
in sales in 2011 that was passed directly on to farmers.  Freedom Day  Its dissolution became a political issue as Prime Minister
 Stephen Harper ’s Conservative government sought a more free-
market approach to the industry. Harper called the day the wheat
board dissolved “grain marketing freedom day” at a press
conference in Saskatchewan last week.  The move will “open the door to new investments and to
value-added opportunities for Western agriculture,” he said at
the Aug. 1 event.  Pat Martin , who monitors the Wheat Board for the  New
Democratic Party , the largest opposition group in Parliament,
saw it differently. “The end of the Wheat Board marks the end
of an era of stability and profitability for Prairie farmers,”
he said in a statement.  Under the single desk, farmers received an average return
or “pool” price for their grain instead of market value. For
smaller producers lacking marketing prowess, the organization
gave them easy access to global markets. For entrepreneurial
farmers, it was a constraint that prevented them from searching
out higher prices by selling when and to whom they wanted.  Negotiate Deals  Erickson, whose grandfather once drove to the nearest
elevator and sold his grain without knowing the daily price, is
prepared to negotiate deals himself.  “I can call anywhere, anytime or look on my phone and find
out what the price of my wheat is today,” he said. “So if I’m
a good marketer and I want to price now rather than wait, I have
that choice.”  Erickson is typical of farmers in the western provinces of
 Alberta , Saskatchewan, and Manitoba, where the average farm is
about 1,500 acres. He has signed contracts with Viterra,
Minneapolis-based Cargill Inc., and closely held Richardson
International Ltd., based in Winnipeg, Manitoba.  Stephen Vandervalk, 35, a fourth-generation farmer in Fort
Macleod, Alberta, about 165 kilometers from Calgary, who sells
3,000 metric tons of wheat annually, said business-minded
producers will “absolutely” make more money.  “But it’s not just about more money,” said Vandervalk by
telephone from his farm. “It’s about managing my risk 10 times
better than I ever could before. That’s huge. That’s what
business is about.”  Drought Prices  Vandervalk, president of industry association Grain Growers
of Canada, estimates he will make C$60 more per acre of wheat
each year dealing directly with the companies he’s signed up
with, which include Parrish & Heimbecker Ltd., a closely held
Canadian company based in Winnipeg.  “Anything is better than selling to one person,” he said.  Farmers selling their wheat when harvest comes in September
may find prices pushed higher by a drought that has scorched the
U.S.,  Europe  and  Russia , said  Patricia Mohr , a commodities
analyst at  Bank of Nova Scotia. (BNS)   Wheat hasn’t been affected as much as corn, which hit a
record high in the U.S. last week, but demand for wheat may grow
as traders bid up the price of all grains, Mohr said.  The drought “is a positive for wheat,” she said on the
phone from her office in Toronto. “It will tend to lift the
price.” Red Spring wheat, the benchmark for Canada, closed
little changed at $9.4625 today, down from a peak of $10.315 in
July, its highest in about a year.  New Competition  Prices offered by grain-handlers such as Richardson and
Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore are so far identical, said many
farmers who have already signed contracts. Where they will
compete is on services such as weighing and cleaning grain, said
David Pupo, an agriculture analyst at Macquarie Capital Markets
in Toronto.  Viterra commands 48 percent market share compared with
Richardson’s 15 percent, according to Pupo’s estimates. Other
companies such as  Paterson Grain ,  and Winnipeg, Manitoba-based
Parrish & Heimbecker Ltd. will make up the rest of the market.  The Canadian Wheat Board will also continue to sell wheat
and last week signed an agreement with Richardson giving farmers
access to the company’s elevators and ports. The board aims to
have contracts with all grain companies, Maureen Fitzhenry, a
spokeswoman, said by phone from Winnipeg, Manitoba.  “There’s going to be competition for grain,” Pupo said.
“Anybody who trades grain is going to compete for it.” Now
that the board is gone, “it’s not business as usual.”  Hundred Barbers  Not all farmers are looking forward to becoming marketers.
In February, four farmers launched a C$17 billion class-action
lawsuit against the federal government to restore the board. The
elimination of the single-desk system will lead to a profit loss
for farmers, the statement of claim said.  “The Canadian Wheat Board has been pretty brilliant at
matching that demand to a particular high-quality product from
 Canada ,” Steven Shrybman of Ottawa-based  Sack Goldblatt
Mitchell LLP. , legal counsel for the case, said by telephone.
“That type of marketing model isn’t one that the big companies
practice.”  The case is awaiting certification as a class action. The
federal government moved to dismiss it the day the wheat board
dissolved.  Shrybman  said about 1,000 farmers have signed up to
receive regular updates and potentially be considered
plaintiffs.  Andrew Dennis, 52, is one of the plaintiffs. He fears
prices will drop. “You can’t just load up a street with a
hundred barbers when they only had one before and expect the
price to go up,” he said by phone from his 2,500-acre farm near
Brookdale, Manitoba, 200 kilometers from Winnipeg.  Dennis sold 2,500 tons of wheat each year to the wheat
board but this year he’s putting it all in storage until he
knows exactly what the market will look like.  Corporate Farm  Brian Oleson, agribusiness chair in cooperatives and
marketing at the University of Manitoba, sees a bleak future for
grain producers.  “Are these guys running out there to get the highest price
for the farmer and the highest price back to the farmer?” he
said from his office in Winnipeg. “No. They’re going to want to
drive down the price as low as possible in sourcing it,” he
said.  For Larry Ruud, chief executive officer at  One Earth Farms ,
one of the largest corporate farms in Canada, the services the
new companies offer will be important.  “It’s about price, of course, but it’s also about premiums
and discounts around the contracted grade and delivery terms,”
said Rudd, who manages about 95,000 acres in the prairies.  Manage Marketing  “We already currently manage the marketing and the cash
flow decisions on everything else that we produce from canola to
feed barley,” he said. “For me, running the business is going
to be easier. We’re removing one of the middle men in the system
and anytime you can remove middlemen in the system, you’re
reducing cost and I’m all about reducing cost.”  Back in Alberta, Erickson said he hopes corporations will
focus on training farmers who aren’t as market savvy.  “One of the challenges over the next five to 10 years is
to understand how the wheat market interrelates throughout the
world because the wheat board really has done a lot of that for
us,” he said. “It’s going to be a learning curve. Long-term, I
think markets sort themselves out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  