-- Greek Finance Minister Says Work Continues on Budget Cuts
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-08-07T18:36:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/greek-finance-minister-says-work-continues-on-budget-cuts-2-.html
Greek Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras said the government is still working on identifying
nearly a third of the budget cuts required by international
creditors to resume the flow of funds under a rescue package.  Reducing the number of state employees may need to be
considered, Stournaras told reporters in  Athens  today after a
meeting with President Karolos Papoulias.  “The 11.5 billion euros ($14.3 billion) is a significant
number,” Stournaras said. “We’re not quite there. There’s
still a gap of around 3.5 billion to 4 billion euros.”  Stournaras said the savings may be achieved by reviving a
“labor reserve” for civil servants, in which excess staff are
placed in a special program for a period of time instead of
being dismissed outright. The comment drew immediate criticism
from the leaders of the two coalition parties supporting the
government of Prime Minister Antonis Samaras.  “I am categorically opposed,” Fotis Kouvelis, the leader
of the Democratic Left party, told reporters after meeting with
Samaras and  Evangelos Venizelos , the former finance minister.
“We must avoid adding more unemployed people to the ranks of
those who are already unemployed.” The plan is a “fiasco,” he
said.  Troika  Samaras is due to visit the  finance ministry  tomorrow at 4
p.m. to assess the work being done to complete the budget
savings for 2013 and 2014. Representatives from the so-called
troika of the European Commission,  European Central Bank  and
International Monetary Fund return to Athens early next month to
review the program, which will determine whether  Greece  will
receive further funds from rescue packages amounting to 240
billion euros.  Venizelos, who negotiated a second bailout earlier this
year and now heads the Pasok party, said the idea of job cuts in
the public service had been “imposed” on the government by the
troika and that he was opposed to it.  The country risks running out of money without the
disbursement of 4.2 billion euros that was initially due in June
as the first installment of a 31 billion-euro transfer.  The government and the troika at the weekend agreed on the
need to strengthen policy efforts to comply with the bailout
terms after the officials spent nearly two weeks consulting with
the new government in Athens.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  