-- Greece’s Rating Outlook Lowered by S&P as Economy Weakens
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-08-08T07:42:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/greece-rating-outlook-cut-to-negative-by-s-p-as-economy-weakens.html
Greece ’s credit rating may be cut
again by  Standard & Poor’s  on concern the debt-burdened nation
will need more support from European Union lenders.  The outlook on Greece’s CCC rating, already eight levels
below investment grade, was revised to negative from stable, S&P
said in a statement yesterday. The change reflects the risk of a
downgrade if Greece is unable to obtain its next disbursement of
bailout loans from the EU and International Monetary Fund rescue
package, the rating company said.  Representatives from the so-called troika of the European
Commission,  European Central Bank  and IMF return to  Athens  early
next month to review Greece’s economic program, which will
determine whether the nation will receive further funds from
rescue packages, amounting to 240 billion euros ($297 billion),
needed to remain in the 17-nation euro area.  Prime Minister Antonis Samaras has held meetings with the
leaders of the two parties supporting his coalition government
since it was formed following elections on June 17 to hash out a
11.5 billion-euro package of budget cuts demanded by the
creditors for the next two years. Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras said yesterday the government is still working on
identifying almost a third of the cuts.  Greek Squeeze  Greece’s economy has been squeezed by the fiscal tightening
needed to qualify for rescue-loan disbursements, with gross
domestic product set to drop for a fifth straight year. The
country may need as much as 7 billion euros in loans this year,
with GDP seen shrinking as much as 11 percent in 2012 and 2013,
S&P said.  Bond-market history indicates that the utility of sovereign
ratings may be limited. Almost half the time, yields on
 government bonds  fall when a rating action by S&P and Moody’s
Investors Service suggests they should climb, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg on 314 upgrades, downgrades and outlook
changes going back as far as the 1970s.  After S&P stripped  France  and the U.S. of AAA grades,
 interest rates  paid by the countries to finance their deficits
dropped rather than rose.  Job Cuts  The euro fell 0.2 percent, trading at $1.237 as of 10:22
a.m. in Athens. The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index rose 0.3 percent.  Greece may need to consider reducing the number of state
employees to achieve the fiscal targets, Stournaras told
reporters in Athens yesterday after a meeting with President
Karolos Papoulias. He said the savings may be achieved by
reviving a “labor reserve” for civil servants, in which excess
staff are placed in a special program for a period instead of
being dismissed.  The comments drew immediate criticism from the leaders of
the two coalition parties supporting the government.  Fotis Kouvelis, the leader of the Democratic Left party,
told reporters after meeting with Samaras and  Evangelos Venizelos , the former finance minister, that he is
“categorically opposed” and that it’s important to “avoid
adding more unemployed people to the ranks of those who are
already unemployed.” The plan is a “fiasco,” he said.  “We see the likelihood of shortfalls, owing to election-
related delays in the implementation of budgetary consolidation
measures for the current year, as well as the worsening
trajectory of the  Greek economy ,” S&P said. “As a result of
this economic weakness, and due to an absence of progress on tax
administration reforms, collection of personal, corporate and
indirect taxes is well below target for 2012.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  