-- Greece’s Doctors Threaten Action Over Unpaid Health Bills
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2012-08-07T09:32:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/greece-s-doctors-threaten-action-over-unpaid-health-bills.html
Greece ’s National Organization for
Health Care Provision, known as EOPYY, will be unable to cope
with any further cuts to health spending as demanded by the
country’s international lenders, the union representing EOPYY
doctors said.  The so-called troika of the  International Monetary Fund ,
the European Union and the  European Central Bank  wants cuts
totaling 1.2 billion euros ($1.5 billion) in health spending, of
which 800 million euros concerns EOPYY, at a time when Greece’s
largest state-run health care provider has debts of 1.5 billion
euros, the Athens-based union said in an e-mailed statement
today.  The union called on the Health Ministry to pay by Aug. 20
all money owed to EOPYY doctors for the first half of 2012 and
to provide a written timetable for the repayment of previous
debts to the entire medical profession.  Failure to fulfil this requirement will result in doctors
suspending the terms of their work contracts until at least
Sept. 2 when they will examine any developments, the union said.  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras and the leaders of the
two other parties supporting his coalition,  Evangelos Venizelos 
of Pasok and Fotis Kouvelis of Democratic Left, are currently
working out 11.5 billion euros of budget cuts for 2013 and 2014
to keep the international rescue funds flowing.  That package must be completed by early September, before a
meeting of finance ministers from the 17-nation euro area, a
Greek Finance Ministry official said on Aug. 5.  EOPYY hasn’t paid its doctors for performing medical
procedures since the beginning of 2012 nor for medical visits
since March, which corresponds to 230 million euros, while the
organization owes the entire medical profession 570 million
euros for 2011 and 2010, according to the statement. These debts
may no longer be manageable, the union said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  