-- Gulf Oil-Tanker Glut Is Seen Expanding on Fewer Bookings
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-08-07T16:06:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/gulf-oil-tanker-glut-is-seen-expanding-on-fewer-bookings.html
The surplus of the largest  oil
tankers  available to load cargoes in the  Persian Gulf  expanded
as the number of vessels booked to haul crude to  Asia  declined,
a Bloomberg News survey showed.  There are 16.5 percent more very large crude carriers for
hire in the gulf for the next 30 days than there are probable
cargoes, the median estimate in a survey of six shipbrokers and
owners showed today. That’s a 1.5 percentage-point gain from
last week.  There has been an 8.8 percent decrease in the number of
VLCCs sailing East from the Persian Gulf during June and July
compared with the same period last year, according to Erik Nikolai Stavseth, an analyst at Arctic Securities ASA in Oslo.
The VLCC fleet will expand 6.9 percent this year, above 4.7
percent demand growth, according to  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s
largest shipbroker.  “The decline in activity has (unsurprisingly) had a
negative impact on freight rates and VLs are still struggling in
negative territory,” Stavseth wrote in the report.  VLCCs able to haul 2 million barrels of oil on the
benchmark to Saudi Arabia-to-Japan voyage are losing $4,383
daily, according to figures from the London-based Baltic
Exchange, a publisher of freight rates. That compares with a
daily loss of $5,780 yesterday, the data show. July’s average
return of minus $3,209.55 was the worst on record for figures
going back to July 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  OPEC Output  Crude production by the 12 members of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries fell for a second month in July as
Iranian output reached a 22-year low, a Bloomberg survey of
producers,  oil companies  and industry analysts showed.  The number of VLCCs booked to haul Middle East crude fell
to an 18-month low of 113 in July, according to Kevin Sy, a
Singapore-based freight-derivatives broker at Marex Spectron
Group. That’s the weakest tally since January 2011, Sy said last
month. A drop in bookings to carry the region’s crude to  China 
was the biggest contributor to the decline, according to Sy.  The exchange’s assessments don’t account for owners cutting
speed to reduce fuel costs, their biggest expense. The price of
ship fuel, or bunkers, added 0.5 percent to $625.13 a metric
ton, data compiled by Bloomberg from 25 global ports showed
yesterday.  Charter rates for VLCCs on the benchmark voyage rose 4.7
percent to 35.97 Worldscale points, exchange figures showed.  The Worldscale system is a method for pricing oil cargoes
on thousands of trade routes. Each individual voyage’s flat
rate, expressed in dollars a ton, is set once a year. Today’s
level means VLCC hire costs on the benchmark route are 35.97
percent of the nominal Worldscale rate for that voyage.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, a broader measure of oil-
shipping costs that includes ships smaller than VLCCs, fell 0.6
percent to 619, a sixth consecutive decline, exchange data
showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  