-- Mickelson Says He Has No Health Issues Ahead of PGA Championship
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-08-08T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/mickelson-denies-health-issues-ahead-of-golf-s-pga-championship.html
Phil Mickelson  said his recent slump
can be blamed on his golf swing, not an arthritic condition.  “My game has not been what I would like it to be the past
two months,” Mickelson said in an interview yesterday at the
Ocean Course in Kiawah Island, South Carolina. “Fortunately,
it’s not health related.”  Mickelson tees off at 1:40 p.m. local time tomorrow with
 Padraig Harrington  and  Davis Love III  in the first round of the
PGA Championship, the last of four annual major golf
tournaments. Mickelson won the title in 2005, three years before
Harrington.  Mickelson, 42, suffers from psoriatic arthritis, a joint
condition that leads to stiffness and swelling throughout his
body. He first revealed the condition before the 2010  PGA
Championship  and has been undergoing treatment since.  While Mickelson said his health isn’t currently an issue,
some golf observers have questioned his well-being after poor
performances on the course.  “Physically, he just doesn’t look 100 percent,” former
European Tour player Frank Nobilo, now a Golf Channel analyst,
said on an Aug. 3 media conference call. “His game isn’t sharp.
It doesn’t look like he’s been able to put the time in that he
would have liked.”  After a victory at Pebble Beach,  California , in February,
Mickelson finished runner-up at the  Northern Trust (NTRS)  Open a week
later. He was fourth at the Houston Open and third at April’s
Masters Tournament, the first major of the year.  “I had a good start to the year,” Mickelson said.  Missed Cuts  The left-hander missed the 36-hole cut in back-to-back
events at the U.S. PGA Tour’s Greenbrier Classic and British
Open last month, and was 43rd at last week’s  Bridgestone
Invitational , leading to questions about whether he can add
another major title.  “He’s reluctant to be completely transparent because it
opens himself up to a lot of different questions that he
probably wouldn’t want to answer,” said former PGA Tour player
Brandel Chamblee, now a Golf Channel analyst. “So we’re left to
fill in the blanks.”  Mickelson has an endorsement agreement with  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s
Enbrel, a treatment for psoriatic arthritis.  “I’ve been able to practice hard,” he said. “I’ve been
able to work out. I lost weight. I’m in better shape than I have
been in a long time. That hasn’t been the issue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta  at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  