-- India Plans Curbs on Sugar, Wheat Exports as Prices Rally
-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2012-08-07T12:40:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/india-plans-curbs-on-sugar-wheat-exports-as-prices-rally-1-.html
India , the world’s second-biggest
sugar and wheat producer, may restrict exports to cool a rally
in domestic prices as the worst monsoon rains in three years
threaten crop planting.  The food ministry plans to ask the cabinet to allow only
state-owned companies to  ship wheat , cap free-exports of sugar
at 1.5 million tons and order mills to sell more sweetener in
the open market, a government official told reporters in New
Delhi, asking not to be identified, citing policy.  Indian commodity exchanges yesterday imposed special
margins on wheat and sugar futures to halt a rally in prices as
more than 50 percent of the country faced the threat of a
drought. The government doesn’t need to curb sugar exports as
the rally in prices has slowed shipments, Farm Minister  Sharad Pawar  said in an interview today.  “Measures like export restrictions are inevitable because
we are heading towards drought-like situation,” said Harish Galipelli, vice president at Kochi-based JRG Wealth Management
Ltd., which advises traders. “The yield of crops like sugar
will definitely suffer on lower rains. Since production is
likely to fall, there is need to alter export policy.”  More Sugar  The September-delivery wheat contract on the National
Commodity & Derivatives Exchange Ltd. in Mumbai declined 0.8
percent to 1,417 rupees ($26) per 100 kilograms. Futures rallied
20 percent in July. The August-delivery sugar contract fell 1.7
percent to 3,455 rupees per 100 kilograms. Futures climbed to
3,672 rupees on Aug. 4, the highest level since December 2010.  Traders have contracted to export 1.48 million tons of
sugar and 860,000 tons have been shipped since India ended
restrictions on overseas sales in May, the government official
said. The food ministry plans to ask mills to sell 420,000 tons
more sugar in the open market this month to control prices, the
official said.  A revival in India’s monsoon, which accounts for more than
70 percent of annual rainfall, in the central and eastern parts
of the country will benefit rice, soybean, cotton and sugar cane
crops, L.S. Rathore, director general of the  India
Meteorological Department  said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra in  New Delhi  at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  