-- India’s Bond Yields at One-Week Low on Pledge to Revive Economy
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-08-07T05:10:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/india-s-bond-yields-at-one-week-low-on-pledge-to-revive-economy.html
India ’s bonds advanced, sending the
10-year yield to a one-week low, on optimism the government will
take steps to revive economic growth and rein in inflation.  Palaniappan Chidambaram, who took over as finance minister
last week, said yesterday that fiscal and monetary policies must
“move in tandem” and that the government will work with the
central bank to curb price increases. India is targeting to cut
the budget  deficit  to 5.1 percent of gross domestic product in
the year through March 2013, from 5.8 percent in the previous 12
months, according to official estimates.  “Investors have drawn some comfort from the statements on
the fiscal side,” said  Anoop Verma , a fixed-income trader at
Development Credit Bank in Mumbai. “There is some hope of
interest-rate easing in the future.”  The yield on the 8.15 percent notes due June 2022 fell two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 8.20 percent as of
10:31 a.m. in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading
system. The rate is the lowest since July 30.  A panel has been established to help the government in
“formulating the path of fiscal consolidation” and is expected
to complete its work in a few weeks, Chidambaram said.  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao left the
repurchase rate unchanged at 8 percent at a policy review on
July 31, citing inflation risks including a weaker rupee, the
negative effect of below-average rains on crops and the possible
increase in prices of subsidized fuel.  ‘High’ Interest Rates  The  benchmark  rate was last cut by 50 basis points in April.
At the review last month, Subbarao reduced the economic-growth
forecast to 6.5 percent for the current fiscal year, from an
earlier prediction of 7.3 percent. The economy expanded 6.5
percent in the 12 months through March.  “We are conscious that current  interest rates  are high,”
the finance minister said yesterday. “Sometimes it is necessary
to take carefully calibrated risks in order to stimulate
investment and to ease the burden on consumers. We will take
appropriate steps in this regard.”  Inflation has held above 7 percent for five months, more
than the monetary authority’s threshold of 5 percent. The
wholesale price  index  rose 7.25 percent in June, compared with
7.55 percent in May, according to official data.  One-year  interest-rate swaps , or derivative contracts used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, fell one basis
point to 7.72 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  