-- India’s Rupee Rises to 3-Week High on Europe Debt-Purchase Plan
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-08-07T11:40:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/india-s-rupee-rises-to-3-week-high-on-europe-debt-purchase-plan.html
India’s rupee rose to the highest
level in almost three weeks after Germany backed the  European
Central Bank ’s bond-buying plan, which may ease the debt crisis
and boost demand for emerging-market assets.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government is “not
worried” by ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s proposal to bring down
borrowing costs in Spain and Italy, her spokesman Georg Streiter
said in Berlin yesterday. While these comments will boost global
risk appetite and the rupee, investors will wait for Indian
Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram to unveil his promised
road map to revive the economy, according to  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC)   “Merkel’s statement reduces the need for safe-haven
investments,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a strategist at Westpac
in Singapore. “I will not be too excited about the rupee unless
we see more action from the Indian government.”  The rupee advanced 0.8 percent to 55.0690 per dollar in
Mumbai, the biggest gain since July 26, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency touched 55.0650 earlier, the
strongest since July 18. One-month implied volatility, a measure
of exchange-rate swings used to price options, fell 95 basis
points, or 0.95 percentage point, to 10.35 percent.  Chidambaram, making his first statement after being named
India’s finance minister last week, said yesterday that he will
seek fiscal consolidation and work to revive investment.  “The economy is challenged by a number of factors,” he
said at a briefing in  New Delhi . “With sound policies, good
governance and effective implementation we would be able to
overcome these challenges. Uppermost in my mind is the duty to
regain the confidence of all stakeholders.”  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 56.13 per
dollar, compared with 56.47 yesterday, and offshore non-
deliverable contracts were at 56.04 from 56.45. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-
deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  