-- Mindray Medical Jumps as Policy Bets Boost ADRs: China Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-08-07T20:29:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/mindray-medical-jumps-as-policy-bets-boost-adrs-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks traded in New York
rose, sending the benchmark index to a one-month high, on
prospects the nation’s policy makers and central banks in Europe
and the U.S. will take measures to bolster their economies.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. added 1.6 percent to $91.55, the
highest level since July 5.  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. 
advanced to a seven-week high.  Mindray Medical International
Ltd. (MR)  surged the most since 2009 as the country’s biggest
medical-device supplier raised its 2012 outlook.  Qihoo 360
Technology Co. (QIHU)  climbed the most since April after saying it will
report second-quarter earnings in two weeks.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  on Aug. 6 backed European
Central Bank President Mario Draghi’s bond-buying plan, and
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston President  Eric Rosengren  said
yesterday the central bank should pursue an “open-ended”
easing program of “substantial magnitude.” The People’s Bank
of China has cut interest rates twice since early June and
lowered lenders’ reserve requirements as the world’s second-
largest economy seeks to stem the slowest growth in three years.  “We’re not seeing global central bank coordination yet but
the talk is out there, and that’s encouraging,” Michael Mullaney, who helps manage $9.5 billion as chief investment
officer at Fiduciary Trust, said by phone from Boston yesterday.
“Draghi is trying to do his best to get the ECB and the
Bundesbank to address Spain and Italy, and the Chinese appear
well aware they need to stabilize their own economy.”  China ETF Advances  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose for a third day, adding
0.6 percent to $35.19, while the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
advanced 0.5 percent to 1,401.35 as companies including
 Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  reported better-than-estimated earnings.  Merkel’s decision to endorse ECB bond-buying in conjunction
with the European rescue fund came despite criticism that the
plan is a “violation” of the central bank’s rules and that
Greece ought to be “cut free” from the euro.  Rosenberg called for the Fed to focus on buying more
mortgage-backed securities to boost growth and hiring. He warned
that without new stimulus, the U.S. jobless rate would rise to
8.4 percent by year’s end. U.S. payrolls increased more than
forecast in July as the unemployment rate rose to 8.3 percent,
the Labor Department said on Aug. 3.  “The jobless figure sent a wave of optimism through the
mindset of U.S. investors,” Mullaney said.  Earnings  Companies including  Fossil Inc. (FOSL)  in New York, along with
 Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Europe reported earnings that
beat estimates, lifting their respective markets. The  Stoxx
Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  rose 0.7 percent to 268.80. The  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  added 0.1 percent yesterday to 2,157.62 while
the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
traded in Hong Kong gained 0.4 percent to 9,851.75, the highest
level in two months.  Thirteen companies in the Bloomberg China-US gauge that
have reported earnings since the mid-July have beaten estimates
by 12 percent on average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The earnings numbers we’re seeing gives us confidence
that although China is slowing, we’re not going to have a hard
landing,” said Audrey Kaplan, who helps manage $2 billion as
head of international equities at Federated Global Investment
Management in  New York . “The growth is moderate but without
inflation, which is really quite good conditions for long-term
investors looking to buy stocks at low valuations.”  Qihoo Jumps  Qihoo, the maker of China’s most-used Web browser, climbed
9.4 percent to $16.97, the biggest gain since April 19 after
saying it will report second-quarter earnings in two weeks.
Qihoo was accused by Anonymous Analytics of exaggerating its
user traffic. The company’s Chief Financial Officer Alex Xu last
month denied the allegations.  “This stock has been under pressure because of concerns
about the company’s accounting,” Henry Guo, an analyst at
ThinkEquity Partners LLC who recommends buying shares of Qihoo,
said in a telephone interview from San Francisco yesterday.
“The announcement of an earnings date is a good sign.”  American depositary receipts of Aluminum Corp., the largest
maker of the lightweight metal in China also known as Chalco,
rose 5.7 percent to $11.01, the highest since June 20.
Commodities including aluminum and crude rose.  Mindray surged 12 percent to $34.96, a three-month high.
The stock has gained 37 percent this year. Mindray said its 2012
adjusted net income would increase “at least” 15 percent over
last year, up from its previous estimate of 13 percent.  Melco Gains  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL) , a venture between
billionaire  James Packer  and a son of gambling tycoon  Stanley Ho , rose 1.7 percent to $10.73, a one-month high, as net income
 rose  23 percent to $82.3 million. Sales fell to $938.5 million,
less than a $983.8 million average estimate, according to eight
analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  “The expectations given what happened Las Vegas Sands and
Wynn were so low that just the fact that Melco didn’t miss by
that much was a plus,” said John Kempf, an analyst at RBC
Capital Markets in New York who has an outperform rating on the
stock with a 12-month price target of $14.  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) , the casino company controlled by
billionaire  Sheldon Adelson , said on July 25 that second-quarter
 profit  fell 34 percent.  Wynn Macau Ltd. (1128) , the Hong Kong-listed
unit of billionaire Steve Wynn’s Las Vegas company, reported a
7.1 percent drop in second-quarter revenue on July 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  