-- Mineral Deposits Unit Sees Senegal Zircon Output by End of 2013
-- B y   R o s e   S k e l t o n
-- 2012-08-07T11:19:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/mineral-deposits-unit-sees-senegal-zircon-output-by-end-of-2013.html
Tizir Ltd., a U.K.-based mineral
sands explorer, expects to start producing 7 percent of the
world’s zircon and ilmenite when it finishes building a $516
million dredging plant on the coast of  Senegal .  “We will be making product by the last quarter of 2013,”
Chief Executive Officer Clever Fonseca said in an interview in
the capital, Dakar, on July 31. “We will produce 85 kilotons of
premium quality zircon a year and 575 kilotons of ilmenite a
year.”  Senegal, which earns most of its foreign currency from
tourism and exports of peanuts, is seeking investment to boost
growth in its $14.3 billion economy, the second-biggest in West
Africa’s monetary union.  Oromin Explorations Ltd. (OLE)  is developing
a gold mine and  Teranga Gold Corp. (TGZ)  mines the ore at Sabodala.  Tizir is owned by the Australian company  Mineral Deposits
Ltd. (MDL)  and French miner Eramet SA. It has a 106-kilometer (66-
mile) concession on the coast of Senegal where it dredges sand
to remove heavy minerals including ilmenite, zircon, rutile and
leucoxene.  It also owns an ilmenite upgrading plant in Norway, where
it smelts the ore to produce titanium slag, used in pigments,
and high-purity  pig iron  which is used for producing machinery
components. Zircon is used in the production of tiles and
television screens.  The cost of the Senegalese mineral-sands project includes
$55 million for a 24-kilometer rail and road link from the
concession to the town of Mekhe, 120 kilometers north of Dakar.
It also involves refurbishing 100 kilometers of existing track
to the port in Dakar, where Tizir will build storage capacity
for 90,000 tons of ilmenite.  The minerals will then shipped to Norway,  Spain  and China,
the world’s biggest consumer of zircon.  “Since construction in China is down, the price for zircon
has flattened in the last six months,” said Fonseca. “But
because of the quality of our zircon, and the flexibility of our
company in that we can upgrade our ilmenite internally in
 Norway , we believe we have a very good future,” Fonseca said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Skelton in Dakar via Accra at 
 rskelton7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  