-- Tinkler Says Government Approval Process Delays Australia Mine
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-08-07T06:54:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/tinkler-says-government-approval-process-delays-australia-mine.html
Mining magnate  Nathan Tinkler ,
 Whitehaven (WHC)  Coal Ltd.’s biggest shareholder, said the start of
its A$766 million ($810 million) Maules Creek mine in  Australia 
has been delayed by a year as it awaits government approvals.  “We expected an approval on Maules Creek during the third
quarter of last year and here we are in the third quarter of
this year - it’s 12 months late,” Tinkler, who leads a group
offering to buy the rest of Whitehaven in a A$5.3 billion deal,
said in an interview in Sydney yesterday. The NSW Department of
Planning and Infrastructure didn’t immediately respond to an e-
mail seeking comment on Maules Creek’s approval process.  Whitehaven bought the asset as part of its A$2.7 billion
takeover of Tinkler’s Aston Resources Ltd. last year. Whitehaven
said in December it expected the mine to commence production in
mid-2013. Last month, the company said output may start during
the first quarter of 2014.  Mining companies developing a record pipeline of projects
in Australia, the biggest shipper of iron ore and coal, are
struggling to bring new operations into production on time and
on budget. The federal government in June temporarily halted an
environmental approval process for a $10 billion  coal mine  in
Queensland, owned by  India ’s GVK Group, over a disagreement with
the state government.  Whitehaven rose 5.2 percent to A$3.85 at the close of
trading in Sydney, the most since July 16.  “We could employ 1,000 people in the next three months if
we had those approvals,” Tinkler said.  Maules Creek is expected to ramp up to output of 10.5
million metric tons by 2016, Whitehaven said last month, adding
the timing of approvals was “extremely difficult to predict”
in the current “dysfunctional interim NSW planning process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  