-- Inside Olympic Village: Bolt’s Food, Chill Zone, Free Bar
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-08-07T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/inside-olympic-village-bolt-s-food-chill-zone-free-bar.html
It’s coming up to dinner time in the
Olympic Village, and the athletes are getting peckish.  A line of Chinese, South African and Kazakh Olympians forms
outside the  London  2012 athletes-only dining hall, a temporary
cafeteria the size of a small airport, where food is free.
Stacked on many a plate inside are skewers of grilled shrimp.  Reporters are banned from the athletes’ village; I’m the
stealth guest of one of its 16,000 or so occupants. Post-games,
the 2,818 kitchenless apartments will be turned into homes by
owners Delancey Estates Plc and Qatari Diar Real Estate
Investment Co., who spent 557 million pounds ($872 million)
buying the village last year.  For now, the place is a sheltered bubble -- a classless,
cashless, and crimeless society. It feels like a Communist
Utopia, untainted by money, yet strangely sterile.  The 24-hour, 5,000-seat food court, with its whirring
generators, is like a giant warehouse. There are open crates of
oranges, bananas and apples everywhere, as well as counters of
dried fruit and nuts, sliced pineapple, and crudites. Cuisines
are divided up by geographical origin.  There’s fine-looking cheese and roast beef at the British
counter, bland-looking pizza and pasta at the Italian stall, and
coriander rice with curry coconut vegetables at the halal booth,
where female staff wear headscarves.  McDonald’s, Coke  The only branded food is from Games sponsor  McDonald’s
Corp. (MCD)  Champion sprinter Usain Bolt gets his chicken nuggets
here. Drinks are provided by sponsor  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  in giant
dispensers offering Coke and affiliated beverages only.  Celebration Avenue, the main drag, is ringed by apartment
blocks that look like housing projects. Most balconies are
festooned with national flags.  Alongside the avenue is Victory Park, a vast lawn with
giant Olympic rings in the middle. Athletes jog past; a woman in
a red sports bra power-walks.  In the state-of-the-art fitness center, which will later be 
a school, rows of contestants train on treadmills provided by 
Technogym SpA, the official Olympic supplier since 2000, and on
to its fifth games. They watch the sports on screens embedded in 
the equipment, which they can also use for e-mails or social 
media. I spot a petite Japanese woman laboring a couple of spots 
away from a great big Dane, so tall he might as well be a tree.  Further along, a blond giant with “Deutschland” on his
track suit pulls on an extensible cable, another of the 750 
 Technogym  machines supplied. His chest is as square and flat as 
a dicing board; he must be a volleyball or handball player, I’m 
told.  Global Pub  A couple of dark, burly guys in Lycra shorts head out. I
mistake them for hangers-on; they’re actually shotput and discus
Olympians from my home country,  Iran , personal trainers tell me.  The village’s paved central piazza is dotted with flags and
movable trees in open wooden boxes. Nearby is a pop-up pub
called the Globe. On the fake lawn outside, a row of athletes in
deck chairs soaks up the late-afternoon sun, while two Austrians
laugh heartily as their tower of wooden Jenga blocks collapses.  Crammed inside are pool tables, video games, table soccer
and plasma screens tuned into the sporting action, with
comfortable fake-leather armchairs for lounging. Bars serve soft
drinks only, and there’s a glass-walled music studio, the Beat
Lab, that’s empty at this hour.  At the small Internet point, a trio of yellow-jacketed
Ethiopian athletes huddles around a computer as a ponytailed
Chinese female waits her turn. Her track suit is mysteriously
marked “Islamic Republic of Iran.”  Manicurist, Florist  On the way out, past a security checkpoint, is the
village’s outer rim, where services are paid for. There are
ATMs, a mini-supermarket, a florist, a post office, and a dry
cleaner.  A  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  beauty salon offers athletes free
facials, head rubs, or red-carpet makeovers. This is where the
U.K.’s women rowers got their hair done after winning gold, and
where London Mayor  Boris Johnson  got a pre-Games manicure.  Olympians can also get their national flag painted onto
their nails; the cheery young man at reception has Union Jacks
on his. He shows me a sheet with all the flag designs, and says
the Kiribati and American Samoa flags are hardest to execute.  I came into the Olympic Village looking, among other
things, for signs of the rumored after-hours parties I’d read
about in the papers. Heading out, I’m not so sure what to
believe. This is an extremely serious, focused bunch, and I’ve
sensed no sexual tension in the air. With days to go until the
end of the Games, the stakes are simply too high.  Muse highlights include: Mark Beech on rock music and  Ryan
Sutton  on  New York  dining.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and culture section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
Farah Nayeri in London at 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 