-- InterContinental Advances on Share-Buyback Plan: London Mover
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2012-08-07T15:50:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/intercontinental-hotels-profit-increases-plans-share-buyback.html
InterContinental Hotels Group Plc (IHG) ,
the world’s largest provider of hotel rooms, climbed to an all-
time high after announcing a plan to return $1 billion to
shareholders through a special dividend and share buyback.  The owner of the  Holiday Inn  chain rose 6.4 percent to
1,725 pence at the 4:30 p.m. close in  London , the second-biggest
gain in the FTSE 100 Index. That’s the highest price since the
Denham, England-based company first sold shares to the public
in 2003.  InterContinental plans to pay a one-time dividend costing
$500 million in the fourth quarter and will distribute the same
amount in a share buyback program starting in that period, the
company said in a statement today. InterContinental raised its
first-half dividend to 21 cents a share from 16 cents after
operating profit excluding exceptional items climbed 6 percent
to $286 million.  Rising demand in  emerging markets  such as the  greater China 
region, which accounts for about 10 percent of revenue, is
helping InterContinental boost profits. About 30 percent of the
company’s global expansion over the next three to five years
will be in the region. The Americas account for about half of
InterContinental’s revenue.  InterContinental’s strategy is to return capital to
shareholders by selling assets and it has paid out $8.9 billion
since going public in 2003. The hotelier plans to sell the  New
York  Barclay hotel this year and the London  Park Lane  in 2013.  Sale Talks  The $1 billion return to shareholders “recognizes the
expected proceeds” from the sale of the New York Barclay, Chief
Executive Officer Richard Solomons said in the statement. The
hotelier is in exclusive talks with a prospective buyer and
expects to close a deal in “coming months,” Chief Financial
Officer Tom Singer said on a conference call with reporters. The
shareholder payments aren’t contingent on the sale, he added.  “The return of capital to shareholders was to be expected,
but the fact that they’re doing it before the sale of the
Barclay is a sign of real confidence,” said  Wyn Ellis , a Numis
Securities analyst in London with an add rating on the stock.  First-half revenue per available room, a measure of room
rates and occupancy known as revpar, rose 9.7 percent in Greater
China, where InterContinental opened the world’s largest Holiday
Inn in April. In the Americas, revpar increased 7.1 percent.  InterContinental has gained 73 percent in the past 12
months, the best performance in the Bloomberg Europe Lodging
Index of five stocks. That increased the company’s market value
to 5.03 billion pounds ($7.87 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  