-- Lippo Seeks Acquisitions to Double OUE Assets: Southeast Asia
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r ,   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   E e   C h i e n   C h u a
-- 2012-08-07T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/lippo-seeks-acquisitions-to-double-oue-assets-southeast-asia.html
Lippo Group , the Indonesian
conglomerate controlled by developer Mochtar Riady, is seeking
acquisitions to almost double the assets of its Singapore unit
to S$10 billion ($8.1 billion) in as early as three years.  Overseas Union Enterprises Ltd. (OUE) , which gets about 65
percent of its revenue from hotel operations, is planning at
least one investment a year in Singapore to boost property
holdings that include office towers, luxury apartments and
malls, Stephen Riady, the company’s chairman, said in an
interview in Singapore.  “We are ready,” said Riady, 52, a son of the Indonesian
tycoon who built the family regional property business. “There
are more and more opportunities. The next one year will be a
very interesting time.”  OUE, as the company is known, started its buying spree with
$1.1 billion of assets when Riady invested in 2006, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The properties it plans to buy over
the next three to five years will help develop a base for
property trusts and other investment vehicles, he said.  OUE last year bought the  Crowne Plaza Singapore , which is
connected to Singapore’s Changi Airport, and completed the
rebuilding of its  OUE Bayfront  office development fronting the
downtown Marina Bay. The company also acquired DBS Towers One
and Two in the city-state’s financial district.  OUE said yesterday its second-quarter profit rose 13
percent to S$22.8 million as its hotels and OUE Bayfront boosted
earnings. The stock climbed 21 percent this year, exceeding the
16 percent gain in the Singapore benchmark  Straits Times Index. (FSSTI)   Boosting Assets  OUE had  S$5.5 billion  of assets in 2011, up from  S$1.8
billion  in 2005 before Riady invested, according to the unit’s
annual report. Riady estimates the holdings are worth as much as
S$8 billion, including plans to add retail space to the two
towers in the financial district. The new properties will be
funded by bank loans, stock and bond sales, he said.  The purchases add to deals that have made the island the
world’s most attractive market for mergers and acquisitions
after the U.S., according to a ranking by the M&A Research
Center at London-based Cass Business School and Ernst & Young.
The increased transactions may also mean more competition for
OUE, said Lau Wei Chong, a Singapore-based analyst at AMFraser
Securities Pte.  “There are still opportunities, though it’s always whether
they can find the right assets at the right price,” Lau said,
adding that OUE needs assets offering yields of at least 7
percent to 8 percent. “It’s quite tough to find suitable assets
in Singapore because every big developer is doing that.”  Rising Debt  OUE is seeking acquisitions as  long-term borrowings  more
than quadrupled to S$2.1 billion at the end of last year, while
annual profit declined for two straight years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Of the 17  analysts  who track the stock, nine rate it a buy
while six have hold recommendations, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Riady’s family owns businesses including  Lippo Ltd. (226) , the
Hong Kong-listed property and investment company where he’s
 chairman  and his father is honorary chairman. Lippo Group
doubled its holding in OUE in March 2010, after buying a stake
from  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB)  in May 2006.  “In 2006, when I heard the news that the local banks are
required to divest from their non-core assets, I thought that’s
an opportunity to buy a basket of properties through OUE, the
platform that I can use for long-term growth,” Riady said. “I
want to use this as our platform in Singapore and grow and
become one of the blue-chip property companies one day.”  Luxury Homes  OUE is planning to develop more high-end homes even as
sales of prime residential properties in Singapore slowed
following more government curbs last year.  Singapore has been attempting to rein in prices since 2009.
Foreigners and corporate entities have to pay an additional 10
percent stamp duty following measures introduced in December,
the government’s latest restrictions.  Riady is counting on an influx of wealthy individuals to
Singapore that made it  Asia ’s largest wealth-management center
with $512 billion in offshore assets as of 2010, according to
data compiled by the  Boston Consulting Group . The region’s
millionaires outnumbered those in  North America  for the first
time last year, according to a report by Capgemini SA and RBC
Wealth Management.  ‘Wealthy Money’  “Worldwide, all the wealthy money is looking at
Singapore,” Riady said. “It’s coming and you are going to see
a lot more. Singapore is going in that direction.”  Riady said he will buy assets across property segments when
prices fall. The acquisitions will help cut the company’s
reliance on hotels. Sales from the hospitality business should
account for a quarter of revenue, with 25 percent or 30 percent
from offices, and another 20 percent to 25 percent from retail,
he said. The rest will be generated from home sales, he said.  OUE owns 3 million square feet of  office space  in
Singapore, worth about S$6 billion, Riady said.  “The slowdown started from the end of last year, but I
think we are about to bottom,” Riady said, adding that the
company has started to increase office rents.  OUE may create an office or hospitality real estate
investment trust of at least S$1 billion as it increases its
assets over the next three to five years, Riady said.  “We are finding more assets, improving it, creating a more
sizable portfolio,” Riady said. “It’s too early for us to do a
REIT now, we are not big enough, we must grow before we do it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in  Singapore  at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Ee Chien Chua in Singapore at 
 echua27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  