-- Iran’s Big Crisis: The Price of Chicken
-- B y   M e i r   J a v e d a n f a r
-- 2012-08-07T22:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/iran-s-big-crisis-the-price-of-chicken.html
Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , the supreme
leader of the Islamic Republic of  Iran  has a lot on his mind
these days. Especially chicken.  The rising price of this food staple is the cause of such
anxiety among Iranian officials that last month, Iran’s police
chief, Esmail Ahmadi-Moghaddam, urged the country’s TV stations
not to broadcast images of people eating the birds. He was
worried it could lead to social unrest.  Khamenei is Iran’s most powerful man, but he knows the
chicken crisis is one he must address. He needs to find a
solution to it and, like any politician, someone to blame.  None of the options available to Khamenei is attractive, a
situation that’s increasingly the case in other areas, too. His
country is being pushed ever further into international
isolation and economic hardship by its insistence on pursuing a
nuclear-fuel program that the rest of the world believes is
designed to produce weapons, despite Iran’s protestations to the
contrary.  The supreme leader could, for example, blame the price of
chicken -- which has tripled since last year -- on sanctions
that the U.S. and the European Union imposed to deter Iran from
continuing its nuclear-fuel plan. Yet that would mean admitting
to both the West and ordinary Iranians that sanctions are having
a big impact, something the regime is desperately trying to
avoid. Iranian officials have instructed the news media not to
discuss the effect that sanctions are having on the economy.  Blame Game  Another option would be to blame President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , but that could backfire, too. Khamenei was once the
president’s main backer. It was the supreme leader who allowed
Ahmadinejad to go ahead with the subsidy-reform plan that has
been a core driver of  inflation .  Escaping from international isolation doesn’t look any
easier for Khamenei, either with regard to the nuclear issue or
the turmoil in  Syria , Iran’s most important ally in the region.  One avenue Khamenei could take would be to stop supporting
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad now, before it’s too late. That
would mean ditching an ally in his hour of need and at a time
when Assad has a fighting chance of holding on to power. An
unfriendly Sunni regime could still take over in Damascus, and
abandoning Assad would meanwhile damage Iran’s credibility among
other friends in the region. If Assad can’t rely on Khamenei
when the chips are down, for example, would Hezbollah leader
 Hassan Nasrallah  be able to?  Khamenei could also compromise on the nuclear program to
avoid subjecting his regime’s economy to further pain of
sanctions. But so far, that would require Iran to give up its
insistence that it has the right to enrich uranium, a public
defeat for the government. Judging by a speech he made late last
month, Khamenei appears to think he can tough it out. “Long-term
continuation of sanctions is not in the West’s interests,” he
said.  The logic of digging in is based on the belief that once
Iran is a regional nuclear power, rivals such as  Saudi Arabia ,
the U.S. and  Europe  might find they have no choice but to deal
with Iran on its terms. Yet this carries risks, too: A nuclear
bomb might make the regime even more isolated and subject to
hostile policies from regional and Western countries than
before.  Sanctions’ Cost  The supreme leader doubtless knows that there’s a
substantial risk he’s wrong and that time is not on his side,
but on that of the U.S. and its allies. Sanctions haven’t caused
the feared increase in global  oil prices , a result of Saudi
intervention and a global economic slowdown. The current cost of
sanctions to Iran, by contrast, is $133 million a day in  lost
revenue  -- annualized, that would be about 10 percent of the
country’s annual gross domestic product. Iran’s oil exports are
down by 1.2 million barrels a day, or 52 percent.  One way for Khamenei to improve the government’s standing
at home against both internal and external pressure would be to
try to address its perceived corruption and mismanagement of the
economy. Here, too, Khamenei’s options are constrained. Should
he begin a real campaign to fight corruption, he could turn
vital supporters into enemies. The loyalty of many regime
insiders is based on being allowed to profit. Nor can Khamenei
easily provide an escape valve for popular anger by introducing
political reforms -- he believes his opponents would interpret
any move to open up the system as a sign of weakness.  Ahmadinejad was already ruining the economy before the U.S.
and Europe introduced the latest rounds of much tougher
sanctions. This is why two heads of Iran’s central bank have
resigned since the president was first elected to office in
2005. His populist spending policies have pushed up inflation
and unemployment levels.  The subsidy-reform policy is a good example. Under the
program, Ahmadinejad cut government support for certain goods
and industries, but then distributed cash handouts to
compensate. That increased the  money supply  and inflation rate.
At the same time, his government failed to invest the money
saved from the reduced subsidies, damaging productivity. The
poultry industry was a case in point. Parliament speaker  Ali Larijani  has said Iran’s poultry farmers warned eight months ago
about lack of feed for their chickens, yet the government did
nothing to fix the problem.  With the added impact of sanctions, Iran’s economy now
faces one of its most serious economic crises since the 1979
revolution and there’s little sign of relief. Last week, the
U.S. administration introduced more sanctions, including on
Chinese and Iraqi banks doing  business in Iran , to further
tighten the noose. Two days later, the  U.S. Congress  followed up
by voting in favor of further measures against Iran.  Unless a solution is found, the price that Iran’s economy
is paying for intransigence may turn its nuclear-fuel program
into a bigger danger to the existence of the regime in Tehran
than to the state of  Israel . Khamenei’s challenge is to find an
answer to this dilemma, without making feathers fly.  (Meir Javedanfar is an Iranian-Israeli Middle East analyst
and teaches a contemporary Iranian politics course at the
Interdisciplinary Center in Herzliya, Israel. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how to fight the  Haqqani
terrorist network  and on why  German bailout fears  are overblown;
 Margaret Carlson  on the  Tea Party’s Senate takeover ; Clive Crook
on why  debt forgiveness still makes sense ;  Edward Glaeser  on why
 parking lots for public housing  make everyone poorer;  Peter
Orszag  on the beauty of  Build America Bonds ; Caleb Scharf on
clues to the  behavior of black holes .  To contact the writer of this article:
Meir Javedanfar at  analysis@meepas.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net  