-- Iran Gets First Golds in Olympic Wrestling Dating From 708 B.C.
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-08-07T02:15:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/iran-gets-first-golds-in-olympic-wrestling-dating-from-708-b-c-.html
In the ancient Olympic sport of
Greco-Roman wrestling,  Iran  had been something of a novice until
this week.  Hamid Mohammad Soryan Reihanpour and Omid Noroozi, both 26,
changed that the past two days by winning the country’s first
gold medals in the discipline at the  London  Games, capturing
weight classes dominated by Russians in 2008.  Before London, Iran had won 30 medals in freestyle
wrestling since the 1948 Olympics compared with two in Greco-
Roman. Mohammad Bana, coach of both wrestlers, spent the last
“six or seven” years studying strategy in the older style that
dates back to 708 B.C., Noroozi said.  “This is down to him,” Noroozi said through a translator
after throwing Bana onto the mat to celebrate his victory in the
60-kilogram category. “I want to thank him so much.”  Noroozi defeated  Georgia ’s Revaz Lashkhi in the gold-medal
bout at London’s  ExCel arena  yesterday, sparking celebrations
among dozens of expatriate Iranians. A day earlier, Soryan
Reihanpour beat  Azerbaijan ’s Rovshan Bayramov to win the 55-
kilogram event.  Another Iranian, Saeid Mourad Abdvali, is competing in
Greco-Roman wrestling at 66 kilograms today. He may face
 France ’s defending champion Steeve Guenot in the quarterfinals.  Unlike in freestyle wrestling, Greco-Roman wrestlers can’t
hold each other below the waist. The ancient art was
incorporated into the modern Olympics in 1896 because organizers
considered it historically significant.  Freestyle wrestling, also part of the London Games, has its
roots in fairground shows in the U.S. and U.K., according to the
 International Olympic Committee  website.  Olive Oil  The older style was part of the games in Olympia,  Greece ,
as early as 708 B.C., when wrestlers in loincloths would coat
themselves in olive oil and grapple against a backdrop of
temples and statues, according to the 2011 book “Power Games:
Ritual and Rivalry at the Ancient Greek Olympics,” by David
Stuttard.  At the ExCel arena, a conference center near London City
Airport, wrestlers wear a one-piece spandex body suit and battle
in front of 10,000 spectators on a circular yellow mat that
resembles a helicopter landing pad. Pop music blares when the
wrestlers enter the ring.  Noroozi defended his position on the ground as Lashkhi
sought to flip him over on his back in the first two-minute
round. He then forced his opponent out of the circle to help
secure victory in the second period.  “I had to work very hard to win,” said Noroozi, whose
shoulder was bandaged from an earlier injury.  Wrestling Culture  Iran has a history of wrestling dating back as long as a
thousand years and has had recent success in Greco-Roman
wrestling in world championships, Iran’s Sports Minister
Mohammad Abbasi said in an interview. Noroozi is a defending
world champion and Soryan Reihanpour has won five world titles.
Abdvali is undefeated the past 20 months.  “Soccer is more popular in Iran, but culturally wrestling
is more important,” Abbasi said through a translator. “We have
many wrestling legends in Iranian history.”  Iranians are knowledgeable and enthusiastic about the
sport, according to Joe Warren, a former Greco-Roman wrestler
who competed in a competition in Iran in 2002. He is in London
to train with the U.S. team.  Most of the Iranians who watched Noroozi’s match at the
arena are U.K. based, according to one of the group, Afshin
Biniaz, a 36-year-old engineering professor.  They made their presence felt and whooped and clamored to
congratulate Noroozi following his win, which gave Iran its
fourth medal of the London Games after a silver and bronze in
weightlifting.  “I could hear the noise even before I came into the
arena,” Noroozi said. “It felt like I was at home.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff at the London Olympics or
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 