-- Italy Economy Shrinks for a Fourth Straigh Quarter
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-08-07T11:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/italian-economy-contracts-for-fourth-straight-quarter-amid-slump.html
Italy ’s economy  contracted  for a
fourth straight quarter in the three months through June as
manufacturing slumped and the euro-area debt crisis intensified.  Gross domestic product declined 0.7 percent in the second
quarter, Rome-based national statistics institute Istat said in
a preliminary report today. The contraction was less than the
median forecast for a 0.8 percent decline in a survey of 22
economists by Bloomberg News. GDP fell 2.5 percent from a year
earlier, the most since the final quarter of 2009.  Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s government is implementing 20
billion euros ($25 billion) in austerity measures that have
curtailed  consumer spending  and prompted Italy’s largest
manufacturer,  Fiat SpA (F) , to curb investment.  Industrial output 
declined more than forecast in June, Istat said in a separate
release today as Monti’s policies contributed to deepening the
country’s fourth recession since 2001.  “We believe Italy faces another two quarters of negative
GDP growth this year,” said Catherine Colebrook, euro-area
inflation economist at BNP Paribas SA, in a research note. The
industrial output decline “suggests that Italy’s economy still
has some way to go before it moves back into growth territory.”  Manufacturing Slumps  Industrial output dropped 1.4 percent in June from May and
1.8 percent in the second quarter, Istat said. Economists
forecast a monthly decline of 1 percent, according to the median
of 16 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Production  fell  8.2
percent from a year ago on a workday-adjusted basis.  Italy, whose surging borrowing costs have moved it to the
center of the debt crisis, is not planning to tap the European
rescue fund for the moment, Monti said last week. His government
is on track to trim its  budget deficit  to 2 percent of GDP this
year, even while forecasting that the euro area’s third-largest
economy will contract 1.2 percent. Employers lobby Confindustria
forecasts a contraction of twice that pace in 2012.  “I’m afraid that there is a little excess of pessimism in
the marketplace,”  Marco Valli , chief euro-area economist at
UniCredit Global Research, said from Milan in a Bloomberg
Television interview. “Because what you can see now is what you
would expect from a country that had to raise taxes, cut public
expenditure and bear the brunt of financial contagion in
 Europe .”  Italian 10-year bond yields fell 7 basis points to 5.93
percent at 12:44 p.m. in  Rome , after initially rising when the
report came out.  Italian business confidence declined last month more than
economists forecast as executives are concerned the economic
recession will deepen. Turin-based Fiat said last week it is
suspending investment in Italy in response to the slump in
demand and will focus on temporary layoffs to reduce costs. Car
production slumped more than 20 percent in the first half, Istat
said today.  Fiat Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said he will
make a decision about restructuring in Europe, including further
plant closings, after third-quarter earnings. Any additional
layoffs at Fiat, the company’s biggest employer, could further
hit Italy’s unemployment rate, already at the highest in almost
13 years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 