-- Live Nation Second-Quarter Profit Drops Missing Estimates
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-08-08T20:26:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/live-nation-second-quarter-profit-drops-missing-estimates.html
Live Nation Entertainment Inc. (LYV) , the
world’s biggest concert promoter and ticket seller, said second-
quarter profit fell 42 percent, missing analysts’ estimates, as
the company held fewer events.  Net income for the quarter slid to $7.69 million, or 4
cents a share, from $13.3 million, or 7 cents, a year ago,
 Beverly Hills , California-based Live Nation said yesterday in a
statement. Analysts estimated an average 5-cent-a-share profit,
excluding items, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Live Nation held fewer concerts amid a stalling economic
recovery in the U.S. and a sovereign debt and banking crisis in
 Europe . Touring activity by Live Nation’s major artists was less
than in the period a year earlier and activity during the U.S.
summer will also be lower than in 2011, the company said.  Sales fell 0.5 percent to $1.55 billion from a year
earlier, missing the $1.58 billion average  estimate  of analysts.
Revenue was hurt by a $43.7 million charge from currency
exchange rates.  The company’s events in the period drew 6.1 percent more
attendees than a year ago and its Ticketmaster division sold
$2.19 billion in tickets to attractions including concerts and
sports events, a 6.7 percent gain from a year earlier.  Economic Conditions  Live Nation rose 1.1 percent to $9.23 at the close. The
 stock  had climbed 11 percent this year.  Spain and  Italy , markets that contribute about 3 percent of
the concert division’s sales, were affected by economic
conditions, the company said in a separate  statement . Live
Nation said concert attendance in the countries is expected to
be flat this year.  Revenue, adjusted operating income and free  cash flow  will
grow this year, Live Nation forecast. The ticketing division’s
fixed costs will rise by about $10 million in 2012 from a year
earlier and ticket sales will be “slightly up” compared with
2001.  The Ticketmaster unit is investing in new sales
technologies, including mobile and social-media products,
according to the statement.  The concerts business will deliver “a high single-digit”
percentage increase in attendance this year and grow adjusted
operating income on a constant currency basis, Live Nation said.  Adjusted operating income, on a constant currency basis,
from sponsorship and advertising will increase this year by a
“low double-digit” percentage, the company also said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  