-- Japan’s Nikkei 225 Hits Four-Week High on ECB Bond Plan
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 2012-08-07T06:55:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/japan-stocks-decline-on-boj-speculation-shippers-fall.html
Japanese  stocks  gained for a second
day, with the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  closing at a four-week
high, amid optimism  Germany  will support the  European Central
Bank ’s bond-buying plan to ease the region’s debt crisis.  Brother Industries Ltd. (6448) , a maker of  office equipment  that
relies on  Europe  for almost 30 percent of its sales, jumped 4.3
percent. Nippon Paint Co. soared 4.9 percent after boosting its
earnings forecast. Sharp Corp. rebounded from a 37-year low
yesterday on speculation Foxconn Technology Group would follow
through with its investment in the electronics maker.  Kansai
Electric  Power Co., which has plunged 29 percent in the past 30
days, gained 10 percent to lead gains among utilities.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 0.9 percent to 8,803.31
at 3 p.m. in  Tokyo , the highest close since July 11, with volume
7.6 percent below the 30-day average ahead of the Bank of
 Japan ’s meeting tomorrow. The broader  Topix (TPX)  Index gained 1.1
percent to 743.70. More than two shares rose for each that fell.  “There are expectations that the ECB’s bond-purchasing
plan will ease debt crisis tensions, bolstering markets,” said
 Kiyoshi Ishigane , a Tokyo-based strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ
Asset Management Co., which oversees about $70 billion.
“Earnings are just so-so on the whole. Some technology
companies have been hurt by the stronger yen but I don’t have an
impression that their earnings are very bad.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The gauge rose 0.2 percent yesterday after German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government backed the ECB’s bond-
buying plan announced last week, according to spokesman Georg
Streiter.  Brother Industries jumped 4.3 percent to 803 yen. Ricoh Co.,
an office-equipment and camera company that gets more than a
fifth of its revenue in Europe, climbed 1.7 percent to 608 yen.  Euro Yields  Yields on Spanish and Italian bonds dropped amid
speculation the ECB will buy the securities in an attempt to
calm euro-region turmoil. Policymakers in  Spain  are resisting
pressure to formally request aid from the ECB.  “Merkel’s decision will eventually have a big impact,
helping ease concerns on the European crisis,” Mitsubishi UFJ
Asset Management’s Ishigane said.  The Topix has rebounded 6.9 percent since this year’s low
on June 4 as central banks around the world ease policy to
support growth. The  Bank of Japan  is scheduled to start a two-
day policy meeting tomorrow in which it is expected to refrain
from additional monetary easing due to its view that the economy
is experiencing a moderate recovery, the Nikkei reported,
without citing anyone.  The price of shares on the gauge stood at 0.9 times book
value, compared with 2.2 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index and 1.5 times for the Europe Stoxx 600 Index. A number
less than one means that companies can be bought for less than
value of their assets.  Earnings Season  A third of the Topix’s 1,672’s companies are scheduled to
release earnings this week. Of the 277 companies that have
 reported  since July 1 that have issued forecasts, 49 percent
have exceeded expectations, according to Bloomberg data.  Nippon Paint (4612)  soared 4.9 percent to 682 yen after raising
its operating profit forecast 20 percent to 21.6 billion yen
($276 million) for the fiscal year ending March 31, citing
“favorable” sales of paints used for cars. Tokai Carbon Co.
plunged 18 percent to 263 yen, the biggest drop on the Nikkei
225, after cutting its full-year earnings outlook.  Utilities gained the most among the Topix’s 33 industry
groups after dropping 15 percent over the past four weeks on
uncertainty about the future of nuclear power in the country.
Kansai Electric soared 10 percent to 646 yen, the biggest gainer
on the Nikkei 225. Tohoku Electric Power Co. surged 12 percent
to 548 yen today after declining almost 30 percent in the past
four weeks.  ‘Ship Without Anchor’  “For the past month, utility shares declined too much
and are rebounding,” said Reiji Ogino, an analyst at Mitsubishi
UFJ Morgan Stanley. “It’s like a ship without an anchor. The
shares are floating and fluctuating on the wave of market
movements because nobody knows the future of utilities and the
bottom of stock valuations.”  Sharp rebounded 1.1 percent to 183 yen after falling to a
37-year low yesterday. The shares recovered as Foxconn pledged
to forge ahead with its investment in the electronics maker,
which it needs to supply key components for Apple Inc.’s iPad
and iPhone.  A computer error earlier shut trading of Topix derivatives,
Japanese government bond futures and options on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange from 9:20 a.m. to 10:55 a.m., the bourse said. The
exchange’s second major malfunction in seven months may have
contributed to declines in Japanese bonds, according to Makoto
Suzuki, a senior strategist at Okasan Securities Co., one
of the 25 dealers obliged to bid at government debt sales.  -- With assistance from Adam Haigh in Sydney. Editor:  Jim Powell   To contact the reporter on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  