-- Japan’s LDP May Agree to Pass Noda’s Sales Tax Bill Tomorrow
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2012-08-07T09:40:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/japan-s-ldp-may-agree-to-pass-noda-s-sales-tax-bill-tomorrow-1-.html
Japan ’s main opposition party may
agree to pass Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s bill to double the
 sales tax  in the upper house of parliament tomorrow, the party’s
No. 2 official said.  “If the visibility is good, the waves are quiet and we
receive a request, we will accept, as long as there are no
problems before Aug. 8, and vote in favor,”  Nobuteru Ishihara ,
secretary general of the  Liberal Democratic Party , told
reporters today in  Tokyo . “But if problems arise before that
there could be circumstances where we don’t agree to it.”  Having already passed the lower house, ratification in the
opposition-controlled upper chamber would bring Noda the biggest
legislative victory of his 11-month administration. Noda has
said the bill must be enacted to cope with the world’s largest
debt and soaring welfare costs, overcoming resistance in his own
 Democratic Party  of Japan.  Smaller opposition parties submitted a no-confidence motion
against Noda to the lower house of parliament and a censure
motion to the upper house today in a bid to stop the bill. Votes
on the measures, which can’t pass without support from larger
parties, have yet to be scheduled.  Ishihara didn’t rule out his party submitting similar
motions, something that would imperil a three-party deal to
raise the five percent sales  tax . The LDP is seeking a pledge
from Noda, whose support is plunging, to call early elections
that could end the DPJ’s three-year hold on power.  Party Rift  Passage of the unpopular legislation through the lower
house in June split the ruling party as dozens of lawmakers
left. Noda, the DPJ’s third prime minister since it ousted the
LDP three years ago, saw his approval rating fall three
percentage points to 22 percent from last month, according to an
Asahi newspaper poll published yesterday.  LDP leader  Sadakazu Tanigaki  said last month in an
interview with Bloomberg that Noda should dissolve parliament in
August, and he threatened to submit a no-confidence motion. Noda
need not call an election until August 2013 and polls indicate
the DPJ would lose a large number of seats. The DPJ’s support
rate fell two points to 13 percent, the same level as the LDP,
according to the Asahi. The paper surveyed 1,540 people on Aug.
4-5 and provided no margin of error.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  