-- Junk Bond Stress at Record Low as Defaults Slow: Credit Markets
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-08-07T03:39:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/junk-bond-stress-at-record-low-as-defaults-slow-credit-markets.html
U.S. speculative-grade companies are
in the best position ever to meet their debt obligations as
investors pour a record $43 billion into high-yield mutual funds
and borrowers boost the cash held on balance sheets.  Moody’s Investors Service said Aug. 1 its Speculative-Grade
Liquidity-Stress index, which falls as corporations’ ability to
manage cash needs improve, dropped to 3.1 percent in July,
beating the previous record low of 3.3 percent in May. The New
York-based ratings firm sees the U.S. default rate peaking at 4
percent in October before falling to 3 percent by June 2013,
below the historical average of 4.6 percent since 1992.  While the  unemployment rate  has held above 8 percent since
February 2009, demand for high-yield, high-risk bonds has grown
as investors speculate that the  Federal Reserve  will keep
 interest rates  near zero through late 2014 to bolster the
economic recovery. Credit Suisse Group AG boosted its forecast
for returns this year to a range of 8 percent to 11 percent from
7 percent to 10 percent.  “The access to the market is mainly a function of a lot of
demand for yield, but investors would not buy with the same
enthusiasm if they really thought there were credit problems
looming,”  Martin Fridson , global credit strategist at BNP
Paribas Investment Partners in  New York , said in a telephone
interview. “The companies are genuinely in good shape.”  Opportunistic Issuance  Junk-bond funds received $9.32 billion of inflows in July,
the most since February, sending the 2012 total 30 percent
higher than the previous full-year record, according to EPFR
Global in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . High-yield companies may
face tougher borrowing conditions if European policy makers fail
to curb soaring yields and the U.S. economy weakens, Moody’s
said in the Aug. 1 report.  “Liquidity in the market, just in general, it can change
on a dime,” Scott Roth, U.S. high-yield fund manager at Babson
Capital Management LLC, which oversees $149 billion in assets,
said in a telephone interview. “There will be times where it
will be difficult to finance, and I think that’s why when the
market is open for business, which it is right now, companies
will need to be opportunistic.”  Elsewhere in credit markets,  Altria Group Inc. (MO)  and Celgene
Corp. led borrowers issuing $12.6 billion of bonds yesterday in
the most active start to the week since March 19, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. banks are relaxing their terms
on credit cards and lending for autos and commercial real estate,
the Federal Reserve said. Software provider Ceridian Corp. is
seeking a $342 million loan to refinance debt.  Swap Spreads  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, fell 1.36 basis points to 19.39 basis points.
The gauge narrows when investors favor assets such as corporate
bonds and widens when they seek the perceived safety of
 government securities .  The cost of protecting corporate debt from default in the
U.S. fell to an almost three-month low, with the Markit CDX
North America Investment Grade Index of credit-default swaps,
which investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, declining 0.8 basis point to a mid-price of
102.8 basis points as of 5:09 p.m. in New York, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest level since the
gauge touched 100.9 on May 8.  Tobacco Bonds  In London, the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings fell 2 to 147.7. In the Asia-
Pacific region, the Markit iTraxx Asia  index  of 40 investment-
grade borrowers outside Japan climbed 1 basis point to 149.5 as
of 8:12 a.m. in  Singapore , Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
prices show.  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Bonds of Caracas-based Petroleos de Venezuela SA were the
most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by
dealers, with 214 trades of $1 million or more, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Altria sold $1.9 billion of 2.85 percent, 10-year notes to
yield 130 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries and
$900 million of 4.25 percent, 30-year bonds with a 168 basis-
point spread, Bloomberg-compiled data show. The debt may be
rated Baa1 by Moody’s Investors Service, three levels above
speculative grade, the data show.  Lending Standards  Celgene, the maker of cancer-fighting drugs Istodax and
Abraxane, sold $1.5 billion of bonds in its first offering since
October 2010. The company issued $500 million of 1.9 percent,
five-year notes to yield 130 basis points more than Treasuries
and $1 billion of 3.25 percent, 10-year debt at 170 basis points,
Bloomberg data show.  Companies from the most creditworthy to the riskiest are
tapping debt markets after yields on dollar-denominated bonds
reached a record low 3.9 percent on Aug. 2, down from 4.8
percent at the end of 2011, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show. Corporate issuers have sold $813 billion of debt in
the U.S. this year, up 3.4 percent from last year, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  The Fed said yesterday in Washington in its  quarterly
survey  of senior loan officers that: “Domestic banks, on
balance, continued to report having eased their lending
standards across most loan types over the past three months,”  ‘Additional Accommodation’  Banks in the U.S. are lending the most since the recession
ended in June 2009, supporting an economy burdened by 8.3
percent unemployment. Fed policy makers including Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  weighed the results of the survey at their July 31-Aug.
1 meeting at which they said they “will provide additional
accommodation as needed” to support the economy.  The  Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 index 
added 0.09 cent to 94.60 cents on the dollar. The measure, which
tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged
loans, has returned 6.8 percent this year.  Leveraged loans and high-yield bonds are rated below Baa3
by Moody’s and lower than BBB- by S&P.  Ceridian’s term loan, due in May 2017, will pay interest at
5.75 percentage points more than the London interbank offered
rate, according to a person with knowledge of the transaction
who declined to be identified because the terms are private.  The business services provider owned by Thomas H. Lee
Partners LP is proposing to sell the loan at 98 cents on the
dollar, the person said, reducing proceeds for the Minneapolis-
based company and boosting the yield to investors.  Ceridian Loan  In  emerging markets , relative yields fell for a second day,
declining 2.6 basis points to 321.1 basis points, or 3.21
percentage points, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI
Global index . The measure has averaged 374 basis points this
year.  The record low on Moody’s liquidity-stress index follows a
decline in the number of companies with liquidity ratings of
SGL-4, the lowest speculative-grade level, to the fewest since
November 2005, Moody’s analysts Tom Marshella, Keith Foley, John Puchalla and Adam McLaren wrote in the report.  While two companies, Patriot Coal Corp. and Cinram
International Inc. had their ratings withdrawn after filing for
bankruptcy,  Casella Waste Systems Inc. (CWST)  and  GeoEye Inc. (GEOY)  had their
liquidity grades raised to SGL-3.  Cash Flow  Free cash-flow  at Rutland, Vermont-based Casella rose to
$3.6 million in the fiscal quarter ended April 30, compared with
negative  cash flow  of $23.4 million a year earlier. Free cash
flow at GeoEye, the company being purchased by  DigitalGlobe Inc. (DGI) ,
narrowed to negative $16.4 million in the first quarter of 2012
from negative $53.3 million a year earlier, Bloomberg data  show .  “Over the past couple of years, since the worst part of
the downturn, cash flow has generally been improving,” Puchalla
said in a telephone interview. “Our forecast for the default
rate is that it will remain relatively low by historical
standards over the next year, and it gives investors some
comfort, at least in the near term, investing in higher yielding
bonds.”  The index is calculated by dividing the number of companies
rated SGL-4 by the total number in the index. When the number of
companies assigned the lowest speculative-grade liquidity
ranking falls, the measure also declines. The gauge, which falls
as corporations’ ability to manage cash needs improves, has
plunged from a high of 20.9 percent in March 2009.  Default Rate  The trailing 12-month default rate for global speculative-
grade companies was 2.7 percent at the end of the second quarter,
2.1 percentage points below the historical average of 4.8
percent, according to a July 10 report from Moody’s.  High-yield bonds have returned 9.66 percent this year,
including reinvested interest, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes show, compared with 8.99 percent for the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  when including dividends.  “Just with the dearth of yield out there, there continues
to be a high level of demand” for riskier securities, Brian Nold, senior high-yield portfolio manager at Seix Investment
Advisors LLC and sub-adviser of the RidgeWorth Seix High Yield
Fund, said in a telephone interview. “It’s created the
opportunity for companies to come to the market and access the
 capital markets .”  U.S. junk-bond issuance rose to $22.2 billion last month,
the most since April, Bloomberg data show. Sales this year have
totaled $174.3 billion.  Difficult Refinancing  The increased demand for riskier assets has driven down
yields on junk-rated debt to within 30 basis points of the all-
time low. Yields dropped to 7.45 percent yesterday, compared
with a record low of 7.19 percent set on May 19, 2011, according
to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High-Yield Master II
bond index.  While high-yield companies are benefiting from those lower
rates, they aren’t doing so recklessly, and that has boosted
their appeal as Europe’s strains and a weakening global economy
increase volatility in financial markets, according to Eric Takaha, a director of corporate and high-yield debt for  Franklin
Templeton ’s fixed-income group that manages more than $350
billion.  “They’ve taken advantage of the strong demand, but I think
the fact is that they haven’t really been as aggressive with
their balance sheets as they could have been given the amount of
money flowing into the asset class,” he said in a telephone
interview from San Mateo,  California .  Funding Risks  While high-yield liquidity is healthy, borrowers rated B3
or less may find it difficult to refinance their debt because
access to credit markets has diminished for lower quality
companies, Moody’s analysts led by  Kevin Cassidy  wrote in a
report. The 25 largest companies with “high credit risk” as
defined by Moody’s hold $74 billion of junk debt maturing
between 2012 and 2016, according to the report.  “The lower a company’s credit rating, the more difficult
it will likely be for it to refinance at manageable rates,” the
analysts wrote.  Companies including Clear Channel Communications Inc.,
Texas Competitive Electric Holdings Co. and Caesars
Entertainment Corp. may need to restructure, particularly if
businesses don’t improve. European sovereign debt concerns and a
slowing  U.S. economy  could further impede access to funding,
according to Moody’s.  “There will always be some issuers that would face
difficulty refinancing near-term maturities,” Puchalla of
Moody’s said. The “bigger picture is that companies on balance
have been able to proactively address their maturities. So at
least for the next 12 to 15 months, they don’t seem to be a
widespread problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 