-- Key Sees Scope for Rate Cuts as New Zealand Quake Bill Grows
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2012-08-08T02:51:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/key-warns-on-one-way-bets-on-kiwi-as-rbnz-has-rate-cut-scope-1-.html
New Zealand  Prime Minister John Key
signaled the onus is on the nation’s central bank and private
investors to aid economic growth as he seeks to eliminate a
 budget deficit  while funding post-earthquake reconstruction.  “The government’s preferred position is not to be
stimulatory,” Key said in an interview yesterday in a
government office in Christchurch overlooking the business
district devastated by last year’s earthquake. “We want to get
back to surplus. We think the private sector can pick up a lot
of the slack and is going to.”  Eighteen months after the worst in a series of temblors
struck Christchurch, the government’s share of reconstruction
costs might escalate, with the administration potentially
needing to apply proceeds of planned asset sales over the next
four years, Key said. Meantime, an appreciating exchange rate is
easing pressure on monetary policy makers, giving “room to move
if they want to,” he said.  Key’s remarks reflect the balancing act of a government
that’s trying to avert deeper cuts in the sovereign-credit
rating and to oversee a revival of the South Island’s largest
city. The planned fiscal tightening coincides with threats posed
by the  European debt crisis , which has damped demand growth in
New Zealand’s trading partners.  The  New Zealand dollar  fell after Key’s comments. It bought
81.35 U.S. cents at 2:46 p.m. in Wellington, from 82.10 U.S.
cents immediately before they were reported yesterday.  Fiscal Scope  “The New Zealand government, from a fiscal policy point of
view, is quite limited in terms of what they can do” to aid the
expansion, said Khoon Goh, a senior foreign-exchange strategist
in  Singapore  at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  “The
government has made it a clear goal to return to surplus as soon
as possible. They are also very careful to ensure they can
retain their current credit-rating status.”  New Zealand, a country of 4.4 million people with
snowcapped peaks and forested valleys that are the backdrop to
director  Peter Jackson ’s “Hobbit” films, has with other
developed nations seen its ratings lowered in the past year.  Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings cut their AAA grade on
New Zealand local-currency debt one step in September, to AA+.
New Zealand is still Aaa at Moody’s Investors Service. On Aug. 3,
S&P affirmed its ratings and called the outlook stable.  At some point, currency appreciation would make the
economy “splutter and stutter and probably stop,” Key said. At
the same time, “a rising exchange rate takes pressure off the
Reserve Bank. Base rates are still much higher than they are
generally around the world -- 2.5 percent. There are options, so
let’s see.”  Currency Bets  Key, a former head of global foreign exchange at Merrill
Lynch & Co., also warned against making one-way bets on gains in
the kiwi, whose 4.7 percent climb this year makes it the best-
performing Group of 10 currency.  The currency’s appreciation has been a concern at the
 Reserve Bank  of New Zealand, which is on the verge of a
leadership change. RBNZ Governor Alan Bollard, who has held the
benchmark  interest rate  at a record-low 2.5 percent since March
2011, ends his decade-long tenure next month, and Key’s
government named former World Bank official Graeme Wheeler to
replace him.  “The very fragile global outlook, the tightening up in
monetary conditions partly because of the high kiwi dollar
argues against the need to lift rates anytime soon,” said Su- Lin Ong, head of Australian economic and fixed-income strategy
at  RBC Capital Markets  in Sydney.  Near Christchurch’s ruined center, about 4 kilometers (2.5
miles) from the suburb of Bryndwr where he was raised, Key said
international investors including Chinese and Australian
companies are interested in backing the reconstruction. The
tremors killed 185 people, destroyed thousands of residences,
offices and the iconic Anglican cathedral in the main square.  ‘Belly Busters’  The city center resembles a demolition site, with more than
700 buildings razed to make way for a new business district. The
lone sign of retail activity in the city’s once-thriving square
is a burger van named “Belly Busters,” parked outside the
ruins of the cathedral.  Key last week released plans for a urban center, saying as
much as NZ$30 billion ($25 billion) could be spent on the
overhaul. The government’s direct cost from the quake, and
others that have struck the city, is about NZ$13 billion, he
said last month. Officials last week formed an organization,
Invest Christchurch, to attract capital from global and domestic
investors into the region.  “Christchurch is definitely going to cost more money,”
the prime minister said. “The issue here is that things have
taken longer and cost more.”  That may strain the budget Key is trying to balance.
Finance Minister  Bill English  anticipates the government
returning to a surplus in the 2014-15 fiscal year, of NZ$197
million. The 2011-12 deficit was estimated in the May budget at
NZ$8.44 billion.  Surplus Target  “We’re on track to get there,” Key said yesterday of the
surplus target. “We think it’s important that we get there.
It’s part of the confidence that we give the rating agencies and
others, that we’re taking our responsibilities seriously.”  To help reduce debt, the government is seeking to raise
NZ$5 billion to NZ$7 billion by offering stakes of as much as 49
percent in four energy companies, and by lowering its share of
national carrier Air New Zealand Ltd.  The first sale, Mighty River Power Ltd., is scheduled for
the third quarter. Indigenous groups have sought to delay the
sales by disputing control of the nation’s water and geothermal
resources. Ministers last week wrote to the Waitangi Tribunal, a
panel that advises on Maori grievances, to ask for their
findings on the claims by Aug. 24.  Key’s Support  In his fourth year in office, the prime minister’s
popularity shows little sign of waning. His  National Party  was
supported by 48 percent of voters in a poll this week, compared
with the main Labour opposition’s 32 percent. Key was chosen as
preferred leader by 45 percent of those polled, with Labour
leader David Shearer receiving 13 percent backing.  Key, whose personal fortune is estimated at NZ$50 million
by the National Business Review newspaper, grew up in public
housing in Christchurch after his father died when he was 6
years old. His late mother, Ruth Lazar, an Austrian Jew, had
fled to the U.K. in 1938 to escape the Nazis. She married George
Key, an Englishman, and they moved to New Zealand in the 1950s.  Hired by Merrill Lynch in 1995 after getting a start in
 currency trading  at  Bankers Trust  in Auckland, Key rose to
become global head of foreign exchange in  London . That’s where
he earned the nickname “the smiling assassin” after firing 50
members of his team in the wake of the Asian financial crisis
and Russian debt default in the late-1990s.  Key became New Zealand’s 38th prime minister by ousting the
 Labour Party ’s Helen Clark after her nine-year tenure. He won a
second term last November, forming a government with minority
parties under the nation’s so-called mixed member proportional
voting system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  