-- King Backs Cameron Budget Plan as BOE Lowers Outlook: Economy
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-08-08T14:39:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/king-seen-cutting-u-k-forecasts-as-boe-stays-open-to-stimulus.html
Bank of  England  Governor  Mervyn King 
signaled continued support for Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
budget squeeze as he cut forecasts for economic growth and said
Britain’s recovery will be a “slow process.”  “If you go back to 2010 when the rebalancing program was
put in place, that looked pretty sensible,” King told reporters
in  London  today. The plan’s three main elements “still seem to
me exactly the right three things,” he said.  The government’s spending cuts, along with the euro-area
debt crisis, have curbed demand in the U.K. While the economy
shrank the most in more than three years in the second quarter,
Cameron and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  have
pushed back against calls from the opposition  Labour Party  to
scale back the fiscal program, saying it is needed to insulate
the country from the euro-area debt turmoil.  King was speaking after publishing the central bank’s
quarterly Inflation Report, which included forecasts showing
annual gross-domestic-product growth of about 2 percent in two
years. That compares with a projection in May of 2.5 percent.  Asked whether the government should have a “plan B,” King
said “no,” and then detailed his backing for the main elements
of the deficit-reduction program; cutting public spending,
focusing on tax rates and allowing automatic stabilizers to take
effect. Automatic stabilizers refers to countercyclical fiscal
policy that limits economic fluctuations, such as increased
 government spending  on welfare benefits during a recession.  He said while the government has cut spending faster than
planned, contributing to a weaker-than-expected economic
performance, “that means there’s less consolidation to do in
the future.”  Exaggerated Weakness  The  Bank of England  also said in the report that while one-
time factors exaggerated the second-quarter contraction, the
economy is likely to remain subdued in the near term. Britain
faces a struggle to recover from a double-dip recession amid the
efforts to cut the  budget deficit  and the euro-area debt crisis.  It said the outlook for the U.K. growth is “unusually
uncertain” and the greatest threat “stems from the risk that
an effective policy response is not implemented sufficiently
promptly in the euro area.”  “Many of the conditions necessary for a recovery are in
place, and the Monetary Policy Committee will continue to do all
it can to bring about that recovery,” King said. “As I have
said many times, the recovery and  rebalancing of our economy 
will be a long, slow process.”  ‘Change of Course’  Rachel Reeves, a Labour Treasury spokeswoman, said the
lower Bank of England forecasts reinforced the need for a change
to the budget program.  “The chancellor’s policies aren’t only causing short term
pain, but long-term damage to our economy too,” she said in an
e-mailed statement. “We urgently need a change of course.”  The central bank also published inflation forecasts today
that signal more stimulus may be needed to meet its 2 percent
consumer-price goal. It kept its  bond-purchase target  at 375
billion pounds ($587 billion) and its benchmark  interest rate  at
0.5 percent on Aug. 2. It increased the quantitative-easing
target by 50 billion pounds last month in a program due to end
in November.  According to the report, inflation is a “little more
likely to be below” the goal for “much of the second half of
the forecast period.”  U.K. inflation  slowed to 2.4 percent in
June and the central bank said the risks are “broadly balanced
by the end of the forecast period.”  The projections are based on QE staying at its current
level and an interest-rate reduction by the second quarter of
2013, according to market forecasts published in the report.  Rate Cut  King said today that the Bank of England’s view for now is
that a reduction in the interest rate would be more damaging
than beneficial. He said that policy makers can take other
measures if needed to meet the inflation goal, including an
expansion of bond purchases.  King’s tone was “not quite as dovish as some may have been
expecting,” said  David Tinsley , and economist BNP Paribas SA in
London. “But as far as policy is concerned it is clear the
current projection falls well short of the 2 percent target and
on this basis more QE in November appears likely.”  Investors have scaled back bets on a rate reduction,
according to Sonia forward contracts. A cut isn’t priced in
through July next year, data from Tullett Prebon Plc shows.
Earlier this month, traders were betting on a reduction as soon
as this October.  Export Pressure  The central bank said a “gentle pickup in the growth of
households’ real incomes, combined with QE and the Funding for
Lending Scheme, should spur a modest recovery.”  Still, it added that exports have fallen due to slowing
global demand and that the pound’s appreciation over the past
year, particularly against the euro, may hamper exports.  If the gains were to continue, “it could make it harder
for British producers to compete in world markets,” the central
bank said.  Elsewhere, data showed German exports dropped more than
economists forecast in June and  industrial production  declined.
Exports, adjusted for work days and seasonal changes, fell 1.5
percent from May, when they jumped 4.2 percent, the Federal
Statistics Office said. Industrial output slipped 0.9 percent.  Also today, Spanish  industrial production  fell 6.3 percent
in June from a year earlier, a 10th consecutive decline, a
separate report showed.  In  Asia ,  Japan  posted a bigger-than-estimated current-
account surplus in June as  oil prices  fell to a low for the
year, easing concern that the nation is at immediate risk of
needing overseas funding to service its debt burden.  The excess in the  widest measure  of the nation’s trade was
433.3 billion yen ($5.5 billion), compared with 215.1 billion
yen in May. The median estimate of 21 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a surplus of 415.4 billion yen.  The decline in crude prices limited Japan’s fuel bills, as
trade figures showed the first drop in imports since 2009, after
last year’s earthquake and nuclear meltdown bolstered demand for
imported oil.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  