-- Knight Is Said to Have Spurned $500 Million Citadel Loan
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r ,   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-08-07T22:53:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/knight-is-said-to-have-spurned-500-million-citadel-loan.html
Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  rejected a
last-minute, $500 million rescue-loan offer from Citadel LLC on
Aug. 5 as it worked on a competing plan from a group of
investors, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  The loan terms would have given Citadel a minority stake in
 Jersey City , New Jersey-based Knight’s  stock  and an interest in
the market maker’s HotSpot foreign-exchange subsidiary, said the
people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the talks
were private. Citadel, the $12.5 billion hedge fund run by
billionaire  Ken Griffin , competes with Knight’s market-making
and electronic-trading business.  Citadel, which had walked away from a previous round of
talks on Aug. 4, made the offer as  Knight Capital  was completing
a $400 million capital infusion from a group of investors led by
 Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  That transaction, which was completed
yesterday, gives the new investors rights to take a more than 70
percent stake in Knight. In Citadel’s offer, shareholder
dilution would have been between 10 percent and 20 percent,
according to another person familiar with the offer.  “Knight explored a wide range of alternatives,” Kara Fitzsimmons, a spokeswoman for Knight Capital, said in an e-
mailed statement. “After a thorough review, Knight determined
that the $400 million equity investment was the best and only
alternative for the company and its shareholders.”  Katie Spring , a Citadel spokeswoman, declined to comment.
Knight fell 0.3 percent to $3.06 in  New York  today after
plunging 24 percent yesterday.  Trading Loss  Knight sought the lifeline after a programming malfunction
spewed orders through exchanges Aug. 1 and saddled the company
with a $440 million trading loss. The stock is down 70 percent
in the past five sessions.  The Aug. 5 offer capped days of intermittent talks between
Citadel’s Griffin and Knight, led by Chief Executive Officer
Thomas M. Joyce. Griffin brought a team from Chicago to Knight’s
headquarters on Aug. 3 to examine the trading firm’s books, said
people with knowledge of the matter. Citadel had also offered a
smaller loan to Knight on Aug. 3 as interim financing, an offer
that Knight rejected, one of the people said.  On the afternoon of Aug. 4, Griffin and his team ended
discussions and returned to  Chicago , these people said.  By the time Griffin tried to re-engage by submitting the
$500 million offer in the afternoon of Aug. 5, Knight was
already concluding negotiations over the terms of the Jefferies
investment, these people said. The Citadel loan offer consisted
of a “term sheet” outlining the offer, the people said.  Knight Hires  Knight has diversified its business by offering trading
services to institutional investors and adding platforms to
trade currencies and  fixed income . The company also expanded its
market making to options and futures and has built up its a
European operations.  Citadel’s electronic-trading and market-making business is
a unit of Citadel Securities, which says it executes about 10
percent of U.S. equity volume, according to its website, a
similar amount to Knight.  Griffin hired Knight’s Jamil Nazarali and Matt Cushman, who
were managing directors at Knight’s electronic-trading group,
last year to lead a new effort in quantitative trading, two
months after they resigned from Knight.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephanie Ruhle  in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  