-- Knight Executives Losing $12 Million as Share Plunge
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g ,   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-08-07T06:04:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/knight-executives-losing-12-million-as-share-plunge.html
While  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  Chief
Executive Officer Thomas Joyce helped steer the company from
insolvency, the company’s travails have come at a personal cost
of $17 million.  Joyce, who held 1.3 percent of Knight as of Jan. 31, bears
the biggest loss in a group of  executives  who own 1.8 percent of
the company’s tradable shares, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg based on holdings from government filings. The $400
million bailout of the firm that handles about 10 percent of
market making in U.S.-listed stocks reduces the stake of
existing shareholders by more than 70 percent.  Knight shares plunged 70 percent since a programming
malfunction spewed orders through exchanges Aug. 1 and saddled
the company with a $440 million loss. The rescue means firms
including  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , Blackstone Group LP and TD
Ameritrade Holding Corp. own a controlling stake in the  Jersey
City , New Jersey-based market maker. Joyce’s ownership compares
with 6 percent of Jefferies stock for CEO Richard B. Handler,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Management ownership, although it doesn’t guarantee
success, is an important ingredient,”  Eric Marshall , co-manager
of the Hodges Small Cap Fund and the director of research at
Hodges Capital Management Inc., said by phone from  Dallas 
yesterday. Hodges has about $700 million in assets. “That’s
something we put a lot of consideration to, especially in the
financial services industry.”  Kara Fitzsimmons, a Knight spokeswoman, declined to comment
on the insider holdings in an e-mail yesterday. She declined to
make the executives available for interviews.  Tradable Shares  The proportion of tradable shares owned by Knight
executives compares with a median of 5.9 percent for brokerages
and investment banks in the  Russell 3000 Index (RAY) , Bloomberg data
show. The Knight proportion goes up to 4.2 percent including
shares that have been issued and can’t be sold, with Joyce
responsible for about 57 percent of the total, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg and Princeton, New Jersey-based
 InsiderScore.com .  Knight’s  market value  was $301.5 million, compared with the
$820 million paper value for the 267 million shares represented
by convertible securities based on yesterday’s closing price.  Stock owned by George Sohos, the head of market making, has
fallen by $4.7 million since July 31, according to data on
tradable and restricted shares compiled by Insiderscore and
Bloomberg. Steven Sadoff, Knight’s global head of operations,
saw his stake slump by $3.4 million. The value of the stake held
by Chief Financial Officer Steven Bisgay, who owns 117,495
tradable shares and 139,177 restricted, declined by $1.9
million, the data show.  Best Deal  Knight  shares  tumbled 24 percent to $3.07 in  New York 
yesterday as investors prepared for hundreds of millions of
shares to enter the market via convertible securities.  “It’s possible that if management had a larger stake in
the company, that they could have gone for a tougher deal,”
 Michael Wong , a Chicago-based analyst with Morningstar Inc.,
said in a telephone interview, referring to the bailout Knight
received. “That said, it was an emergency situation. Joyce came
out and said it was the best deal that could be struck.”  Six of Knight’s seven  board members  are independent and own
shares, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg from government
filings. Companies in its exchanges and brokerages peer group
have 11 board members on average that include nine independent
directors and 10 people that own shares, the data show.  New Board Members  Joyce said in a telephone interview yesterday he faced too
many risks to make Knight’s equity price a top priority as he
negotiated the bailout. Diluting shareholders to save the
company was “the right thing to do” and he intends to continue
running the firm, he said.  Knight said in a statement yesterday it will add three
members to its board. One will be selected by Blackstone,
another by General Atlantic LLC, and one member will be subject
to approval by Jefferies, according to a  filing  with the SEC.  “As big as the hit was, I think it’s good the shareholders
were able to survive with something,” Walter “Bucky” Hellwig,
who helps manage $17 billion at BB&T Wealth Management in
Birmingham,  Alabama , said by phone yesterday. “It’s to the
credit of the organization that they were able to get it done.”  The dilution to its equity leaves “very little” for
existing shareholders, while likely ensuring the company’s
survival,  analysts  at JPMorgan Chase & Co. wrote in an Aug. 6
note. They predicted Knight eventually may be broken up.  Jefferies conceived and structured the $400 million
investment and bought shares along with Getco LLC and
Blackstone, brokerages Stifel Nicolaus & Co. and TD Ameritrade,
as well as the investment bank Stephens Inc. Jefferies’ Handler
holds 12 million shares of the company, Bloomberg data show.  “Firms who know Knight well saw this for what it was, an
unfortunate, one-off tech problem,”  Roger Freeman , a New York-
based analyst with Barclays Plc, wrote in an e-mail. Still,
“there aren’t big employee stakes at this company.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  