-- Knight Losses Spur Tighter Automated-Trading Rules From SEC
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-08-08T17:44:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/knight-losses-push-sec-to-write-tighter-automated-trading-rules.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is writing new rules in the wake of  Knight Capital
Group Inc. (KCG)  losses that could turn longstanding policies for how
exchanges manage their automated systems into regulations.  After Knight suffered a $440 million trading loss Aug. 1
that almost put it out of business, the SEC began work to
bolster existing policies meant to ensure the exchanges’ systems
can safely handle trading demands, according to a person
familiar with the SEC’s work who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the process isn’t public.  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said in an Aug. 3 statement that
she asked her staff to hasten work “to require exchanges and
other market centers to have specific programs in place to
ensure the capacity and integrity of their systems.” The agency
will hold a Sept. 14 public meeting with industry participants
to talk about “how we can strengthen the stability of our
market structure while still preserving the many benefits of
electronic trading,” Schapiro said in a statement today.  The malfunction at Knight tripped safeguards previously put
into place by the SEC after technical faults caused the one-day,
May 6, 2010, market crash, including activating single-stock
circuit breakers to halt trading. Schapiro pointed out her
agency’s recent market-access rules already require broker-
dealers to keep tabs on their own trading systems “to ensure
they are operating properly.”  1987 Legacy  The SEC’s so-called automation review policies, put in
place with exchanges after the 1987 market crash, require the
venues to notify the regulator of trading failures or security
lapses. Portions of those policies will serve as the basis for
the new rules, the person said.  Schapiro said in a March 2011  speech  that compliance with
the policies should be made mandatory. The Government
Accountability Office  urged  such action in 2004, she said.  “These are policy statements, not rules,” Schapiro said
in 2011. “They set out expectations that market participants
would acquire appropriate technology and assure its
functionality -- with regular capacity planning and testing
exercises, and with system vulnerability assessments.”  The guidelines also state that exchanges should undergo an
annual independent review and tell the SEC about “system
outages and material system changes,” according to Schapiro.  “Such a regulation would require market participants to
meet adequate standards for the capacity, resiliency, and
security of their automated systems,” she said. “These rules
could apply to exchanges, alternative trading systems handling
appreciable volume, clearing agencies, depositories and
securities information processors.”  -- With assistance from Nina Mehta in  New York . Editors: Anthony
Gnoffo,  Maura Reynolds   To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  