-- Knight to Return as Designated Market Maker Next Week
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-08-07T20:34:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/knight-to-return-as-designated-market-maker-next-week.html
Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) , the firm
that almost went out of business after a $440 million trading
loss, will resume its duties as a designated market maker on the
 New York  Stock Exchange on Aug. 13, the exchange said.  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  said in a statement today that all of the
firm’s securities, staff, operations and systems will return to
Knight after being temporarily reassigned to Getco LLC
yesterday. The exchange had shifted responsibility for about 680
stocks that Knight handled as a primary market maker to Getco so
the broker could focus on shoring up its finances after
incurring losses during a software malfunction on Aug. 1.  “Knight and Getco have demonstrated outstanding commitment
and leadership in serving the best interests of investors, our
listed issuers and market stability,” Larry Leibowitz , chief
operating officer of NYSE Euronext, said in the statement. “We
applaud the teamwork and collaboration by all parties involved
to ensure smooth, efficient and seamless transitions.”  Automated trading firm Getco, which oversees activity in
896 companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange and NYSE
MKT, was using its own technology and capital to trade the
shares that Knight makes a market in, Larry Leibowitz, chief
operating officer at NYSE Euronext, said in a statement
yesterday. The Chicago-based firm took over an additional 524
stocks listed on the Big Board and 156 on NYSE MKT, formerly
known as NYSE Amex, from Knight, according to NYSE.  Knight received a $400 million cash infusion through the
sale of convertible securities after last week’s software
malfunction drove the market maker to the brink of bankruptcy.
Getco, Blackstone Group LP, brokerages Stifel Nicolaus & Co. and
 TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD) , as well as Stephens Inc. and
Jefferies Group Inc. invested in the rescue funding, Knight said
in a statement yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  