-- ‘Kung Fu Panda’ Studio Eyes $3.1 Billion Shanghai Complex
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-07T08:46:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/kung-fu-panda-studio-to-spend-20-billion-yuan-in-shanghai.html
Oriental DreamWorks, a Chinese
venture by  DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) , will invest more than
20 billion  yuan  ($3.1 billion) building an entertainment center
in Shanghai to rival  New York ’s Broadway and  London ’s West End.  The Dream Center, which will include theaters, shops,
restaurants and hotels, is scheduled to open in 2016, Oriental
DreamWorks said in a statement today. The company also said it
will co-produce “Kung Fu Panda 3” in  China  and plans to
release the animated film in 2016.  The investment will give Glendale, California-based
DreamWorks Animation a footprint in one of the world’s fastest-
growing movie markets. Ticket sales in China rose 35 percent
last year to $2 billion, according to the  Motion Picture
Association  of America, making China the third largest movie
market behind the U.S. and  Japan .  “We have formed what we think is a very valuable strategic
partnership to make world class feature animation,”  Jeffrey Katzenberg , chief executive officer of DreamWorks Animation,
said at a press conference in Shanghai today. “We’re very
confident that the creative talent exists here in China. We’re
very enthusiastic about building a studio.”  The animation studio will hire 800 people over the next
four years, Katzenberg said, and add more employees eventually.
He also said it has seven scripts in development, one of which
will be the company’s first original production out of China.  ‘Panda’ Sequel  “Kung Fu Panda 3” will be a sequel to the 2011 and 2008
films, which generated more than $600 million each in worldwide
ticket sales, according to  Box Office Mojo , an industry tracker.
Oriental DreamWorks plans to release one to three films a year
following its first solely created feature production in 2017,
it said in today’s statement.  DreamWorks Animation owns about 45 percent of Oriental
DreamWorks, with the rest held by China Media Capital, Shanghai
Media Group and Shanghai Alliance Investment Ltd. The companies
are seeking partners to fund the investment in the Dream Center
in Shanghai, said Li Ruigang, Chairman of China Media Capital.  Li, 43, will head Oriental DreamWorks as the chief
executive officer, Katzenberg said during the media conference.
Li is also a board member of Dublin-based  WPP Plc. (WPP) , the world’s
largest advertising company by market value.  The entertainment complex will feature a “Dream Walk,”
the world’s largest Imax screen, which can be used for film
premieres and other events, according to the statement. It will
be located in the district of Xuhui along the Huangpu River that
winds through Shanghai.  `Incredible Metropolis'  “It’s an incredible metropolis here with many beautiful
aspects to it but it doesn’t have that sort of cultural,
entertainment center to it, and that’s what sort of got us
started on this idea,” Katzenberg said. The Dream Center will
be a “celebration of great theater, great art, great culture,
great music, all in one place” and will target 18 to 34 year
olds, he said.  Ben Wood , who designed Shanghai’s Xintiandi, an urban
dining, shopping and entertainment district in the downtown
area,  will be among the designers for The Dream Center,
Katzenberg said.  The project will be “complementary” to the Shanghai theme
park being developed by  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , Katzenberg said.  Disney Theme Park  Disney and its state-owned China partner Shanghai Shendi
Group Co. announced in 2011 it will invest about $4.4 billion
building the resort, which will open in about five years. The
company also said in April it will co-produce “Iron Man 3” in
China with Beijing Film Studio DMG Entertainment.  DreamWorks Animation shares slipped 0.7 percent to $17.83
in New York yesterday, paring its gain this year to 7.4 percent.
Disney retreated 0.2 percent to $49.65, having rallied 32
percent in 2012.  Entertainment companies are seeking tie-ups with Chinese
filmmakers in a bid to circumvent the country’s annual quota on
the number of foreign-made films that can be shown in theaters.
China allows 34 foreign films to be screened in China each year,
with 14 to be shown in 3D or large format. Movies that are co-
produced with Chinese partners can skirt the quotas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexandra Ho in  Shanghai  at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  