-- N.J. Towns Blame State for Part-Timers on Pension Rolls
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-08-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/n-j-towns-blame-state-for-part-timers-on-pension-rolls.html
Part-time work for the  New Jersey 
towns of Leonia, Saddle Brook and Elmwood Park helped attorney
Brian Giblin rack up pension credits worth $33,143 a year, even
after a 2007 state law made contractors like him ineligible.  Giblin was among five attorneys singled out in a July 17
audit by Comptroller Matthew Boxer that found 202 people
improperly enrolled in the state pension system. The potential
cost of retirement payments to those attorneys, engineers and
other professionals is at least $1.9 million annually, Boxer
said, and probably much more because his office surveyed only
159 of New Jersey’s more than 1,000 towns and school districts.  The audit suggests that New Jersey has more work to do to
end pension-system abuses that have contributed to it having $42
billion less in assets than needed to cover promised benefits.
Lawmakers banned professionals from the system five years ago
after a  task force  declared the rolls rife with “non-
deserving” and “politically well-connected” people. The state
has done little to enforce the law.  “Every quarter we’re required to send reports to the
pension system,” Karen Chamberlain, Saddle Brook’s mayor, said
in a July 27 telephone interview. “They should have been able
to pick it up and say, ‘OK, Saddle Brook, here’s a person who’s
not supposed to be in, and what are you going to do about it?”  New Jersey’s pension deficit reached $53.9 billion in 2010
after the state expanded benefits and skipped payments over a
decade. The gap fell to $36.3 billion after Governor  Chris Christie  signed bills in 2011 that boosted employee pension and
health-care contributions, raised the minimum  retirement age  for
new workers and froze cost-of-living adjustments.  Funding Gap  The unfunded liability swelled to $41.8 billion by June
2011 after Christie, a Republican, skipped a $3 billion pension
payment. The deficit would have been more than $61 billion
without his benefits overhaul, the state treasury estimated.
Christie’s budget for this fiscal year included a $1.03 billion
payment under a 2010 law that requires the state to phase in
full contributions over seven years.  Saddle Brook, 8 miles (13 kilometers) west of  New York City 
with a median household  income  of about $83,000, pays Giblin
$6,516 a year to be its municipal prosecutor. He also is borough
attorney in Elmwood Park and Leonia, with annual compensation
from those towns of $128,840. All three towns were giving him
credits toward a pension, Boxer’s audit found.  Mass Confusion  Giblin, 56, who lives in Paramus, declined to comment when
reached by telephone the day Boxer’s audit was released, saying
he hadn’t seen it. He didn’t respond to subsequent messages left
at his Oradell private law firm. A reporter who visited the
office yesterday seeking comment was told he wasn’t there.  Elmwood Park had conflicting opinions on Giblin’s pension
eligibility from the state and the  Internal Revenue Service , and
left him enrolled for fear of a lawsuit, according to Keith Kazmark, the municipal clerk. Elmwood Park, like Saddle Brook,
asked that Giblin be dropped after Boxer’s report.  “All we were looking for was a simple yes-or-no answer
from the  state of New Jersey , and unfortunately that did not
come until the Boxer report was released,” Kazmark said by
telephone. “It was never the intention of the administration to
leave Mr. Giblin in there because of a political consideration
or anything of that nature.”  On the Job  Leonia keeps Giblin enrolled for pension credits based on a
2007 opinion from the state Department of Community Affairs,
said Myrna Becker, the borough’s chief financial officer.  “The information given to us was so long as he’s been in
the pension system and we consider him an employee, he can stay
in,” Becker said by telephone Aug. 2.  Community Affairs was “not aware of any advice that would
have been given” to Leonia, Tammori Petty, a department
spokeswoman, said in an Aug. 2 e-mail. “It is irrelevant when
someone was put on the payroll.”  Boxer’s report said Community Affairs and the state
Division of Pension and Benefits informed towns about the law in
2007 and 2008, referred to three IRS publications and offered
training. Some towns insisted their professionals were
“grandfathered” into the system. In fact, the law left pension
credits intact if they were earned prior to Jan. 1, 2008, and
made no exceptions beyond that cutoff.  One Investigator  The pensions division has put “limited resources” toward
examining whether contractors are improperly enrolled in the
Public Employees’ Retirement System, Boxer said. It has only one
investigator for that task who works the cases part time, with
minimal help from two other staffers and only in response to
tips or media reports, Boxer’s report found.  “The number of questionable PERS enrollees we have
identified, along with the other findings of this report,
suggest that the time has come to allocate additional resources
to this effort, at least on a temporary basis,” Boxer said.  Boxer pointed to  New York ’s success in addressing similar
instances of pension abuse. That state’s comptroller, which
unlike New Jersey is administrator of the pension system,
recently established a 10-person “pension integrity bureau.”
Three employees have the sole task of reviewing whether people
are rightly part of the system, and more than 30 enrollees have
been found to have received improper credits, Boxer said.  Towns Lose  New Jersey’s pensions division is part of the state
Treasury Department.  Andy Pratt , a spokesman for Treasurer
Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff, said the division is reviewing the 202
cases identified by Boxer and will then search for other such
enrollees. As a result of the report, “a number of employers”
have forwarded the names of contractors to drop, Pratt said in
an e-mail.  “Refunds where appropriate will be given to individuals,”
Pratt said. “Local governments do not get refunds if they
wrongly certify that an employee is eligible.”  The division isn’t aware of any improper payouts made to
contractors, Pratt said. Pension applications are reviewed and
information confirmed before any checks go out, he said.  Giblin and four other contractors were identified as
Attorneys 1 through 5 in the report. Their names were confirmed
by Pete McAleer, a spokesman for Boxer’s office.  In addition to Giblin, three of the attorneys didn’t
respond to messages left at their private practices: Charles
Wigginton in Gloucester City, Timothy Higgins in  Cherry Hill ,
and Joseph Trapanese in Little Falls.  No Answer  Trapanese told the comptroller’s office that he had
previously contacted the pensions division to ask whether he was
an employee or a contractor, and didn’t receive a response. He
applied for retirement benefits in May and his estimated annual
pension benefit was $4,829, according to Boxer’s report.  Pratt said Trapanese was advised by the pensions division
that his  service  after 2007 wouldn’t be credited. He retired in
June and is receiving a pension of $2,252 a year based on his 66
months of service prior to the law, according to Pratt. The
division refunded Trapanese $6,166 in June for his ineligible
contributions, Pratt said.  John Schettino, identified as Attorney 1 in Boxer’s report,
is paid a combined $241,654 a year by the borough of Fairview
and the Guttenberg school board, and enrolled for pension
credits in both. His 22 years of service would provide $97,196
annually if he retired now. When the 2008 cutoff is applied, the
amount drops to $67,776.  Schettino, 52, a Harrington Park resident with law offices
in Hackensack, said private attorneys in New Jersey can make
three times the pay of their publicly employed counterparts, who
were typically offered pensions to lessen that wage gap.  “When many of these professionals took these jobs, that
was certainly a carrot,” he said in an Aug. 2 phone interview.
“I imagine at the very least that hourly rates will go up
because they’re no longer getting that benefit of being in a
pension.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton  at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  