-- Narrow 52-Inch Studio to Bridge Polish, Jewish Culture
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-08-07T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/narrow-52-inch-studio-to-bridge-polish-jewish-culture.html
A garbage-piled alley between two
buildings in Warsaw is to be turned into one of the world’s
narrowest buildings.  Polish architect  Jakub Szczesny  found it easy to touch both
walls in the gap just 133 centimeters (52 inches) apart -- and
realized he had the chance to think big.  The new building will have a gray concrete structure built
under communist rule on one side. It will now be linked with its 
neighbor block dating from before World War II, when the city 
was home to  Europe ’s largest Jewish community.  Szczesny plans what he calls “an extravagant tie” between
Polish and Jewish culture. He asked  Etgar Keret , an Israeli
writer whose mother once lived in Warsaw, to endorse the project
that plans to provide working space for aspiring artists.  “Warsaw and Poland need initiatives that can open our
minds to the impossible, breaking the traps of routines, culture
and history,” Szczesny said in a telephone interview. “Keret
is a creative guy, a fully contemporary character who can take
the cultures of Poland and  Israel  above historical adversities.
The house is narrow, but it should help widen minds.”  Keret House will be located in Warsaw’s former Jewish
district, where the Germans established Nazi-occupied Europe’s
largest Jewish ghetto during World War II.  Constructed around a steel skeleton with a glass roof, it
will have a one-bedroom apartment. The cost of the project,
managed the Polish Contemporary Art Foundation and coordinated
by the National Center of Culture, is 200,000 zloty ($57,450).  Record Gap  The building, scheduled to open in October, will be among
the narrowest in the world. The Sam Kee building in  Vancouver ,
 Canada , considered the world’s narrowest building by the
Guinness Book of World Records, is 125 centimeters (49 inches)
at its base. Great Cumbrae in  Scotland  holds the title of
skinniest house front, at 47 inches (119 centimeters) at its
narrowest.  Keret House is “a unique adventure” for everybody who
takes part, including municipal offices and private companies
that needed to adjust their daily routine to “a space that at
first offers nothing but limits,” said Szczesny, 38, who
specializes in designs for limited spaces and is also working on
a house to be built in a cave. People are lining up to spend
time at Keret House, according to Szczesny.  That “proves that people are just hungry for a different
mind-set” and Keret House has the potential “to inspire
everybody, not only artists or writers,” he said.  Best Seller  Keret, 44, whose “Suddenly, a Knock on the Door” was
among Amazon’s best-selling short-story collections this year,
is the son of Holocaust survivors.  His father, Efraim, hid in a hole in the ground for 600
days in a Polish village, according to  Jewishjournal.com . His
mother, Orna, who lost her entire family in the Ghetto, survived
with a fake Christian birth certificate and left  Poland  when she
was 12, according to the documentary “In Search of Lost Time.”
They passed on an affinity to Polish culture.  “I loved Polish poetry in my twenties but, before that,
had only absorbed Polish culture through my parents,” Keret
told critical.mob this year. “I guess that all the books
they’ve read had defined what they’ve found funny or interesting
and as a child I’ve absorbed something of that in a totally
unconscious and indirect way.”  Information:  http://www.centrala.net.pl/our-work/keret   Muse highlights include  Warwick Thompson  on U.K. theater
and  Greg Evans  on U.S. television.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 