-- NFL Taps Shannon Eastin as First Female to Officiate League Game
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-08-07T20:55:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/nfl-taps-shannon-eastin-as-first-female-to-officiate-league-game.html
Shannon Eastin is set to become the
 National Football League ’s first female official when she works
a preseason game in two days.  Eastin, a 42-year-old former national judo champion, will
be a line judge when the San Diego Chargers host the  Green Bay
Packers  on Aug. 9.  Eastin said on a conference call today that she received an
e-mail from the NFL asking if she’d consider working during a
dispute between the league and the NFL Referees Association. She
decided to risk alienating herself from the union and accept.  “Hopefully there’s some understanding on their part that
this is an opportunity for me,” Eastin said. “I have to do
what’s in the best interest of myself just as they’ve got to do
what’s in the best interest of themselves.”  Entering her 17th year as a football official, Eastin has
been a referee in the Mid-Eastern Athletic Conference the past
four seasons. The conference is part of the  National Collegiate
Athletic Association ’s lower-level division.  A 5-foot-5 (165 centimeter) resident of Tempe,  Arizona ,
Eastin is the director of officials for the Arizona Charter
Schools Association. She owns  SE Sports Officiating LLC , which
trains and helps assign officials in several sports.  Occasional Sexism  Eastin said she’s encountered occasional sexism during her
career, although the vast majority of people -- especially
players -- have been supportive.  “Knowing that I’m a female in a man’s world, I’ve always
put the most pressure on myself, understanding that pretty much
everything I do is going to be magnified,” she said. “I know
what I signed up for.”  The six-time national judo champion began competing in the
seniors’ 18-and-older division when she was 11. She said she
gave up the sport when she was 15 because judo was years from
gaining inclusion in the Olympic program. Women’s judo was added
to the games in 1992.  “When I was a child I wanted to play football, but my
mother said no,” Eastin said. “So I compromised with judo.”  The NFL said in June it would begin hiring and training
replacement officials after talks about a new collective
bargaining agreement stalled. The last time the NFL used
replacement officials was in 2001, when they worked the final
preseason game and the opening weekend of the regular season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 