-- Nigeria’s Amcon Picks Citigroup, RenCap to Advise on Banks
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-08-07T08:32:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/nigeria-s-amcon-picks-citigroup-rencap-to-advise-on-banks-1-.html
The Asset Management Corp. of
Nigeria, an agency set up to buy bad debt from the nation’s
banks, has appointed  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Renaissance Capital  to
value and advise on plans for three nationalized lenders, Chief
Executive Officer Mustafa Chike-Obi said.  Citigroup was picked to advise on Mainstreet Bank Ltd.,
with Renaissance taking on Keystone Bank Ltd. and Enterprise
Bank Ltd., Chike-Obi said today in a mobile-phone interview.
They have three to six months to report back to Amcon, he said.  The banks were among eight bailed out by the  Central Bank
of Nigeria  in 2009 as a lending crisis threatened the financial
system in sub-Saharan Africa’s second-largest economy and
biggest oil producer. While five were later acquired by other
banks, three were nationalized in August after regulators
decided they couldn’t meet banking requirements.  Listing the banks’ shares on the  Nigerian Stock Exchange 
may be a possibility, Chike-Obi said. “If they advise a share
sale then we will go ahead,” he said.  Abuja-based Amcon said in a March advertisement that it was
seeking advisers for the possible sale of the three banks. In
June, Chike-Obi said 44 had responded and that the agency
shortlisted 11 of them to submit of proposals.  While the central bank is not directly involved in the sale
of the banks, Governor Lamido Sanusi said Feb. 15 that it’s
“expecting a smooth process.”  The  Bloomberg NSE Banking Index (NGSEB10) , which tracks the
performance of Nigeria’s 10 most capitalized banks, has jumped
29 percent this year, to 353.3 at the close of trading yesterday
in Lagos, the commercial capital, compared with the 13 percent
rise of the  Nigerian Stock Exchange All-Share Index. (NGSEINDX)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  