-- NRA Sought Donations in Days After Colorado Shootings
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-08-07T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/nra-sought-donations-in-days-after-colorado-shootings.html
Three days after a gunman calling
himself the Joker from the Batman series shot dead 12 people in
a suburban Denver movie theater, the  National Rifle Association 
sent out a letter asking for money.  “The future of your Second Amendment rights will be at
stake,” the letter said. “And nothing less than the future of
our country and our freedom will be at stake.”  The letter dated July 23, which was sent to NRA supporters
including to people in  Colorado , doesn’t mention the gunfire
during the showing of the new Batman movie July 20 in Aurora,
Colorado.  It was also sent as the national debate over gun rights has
flared up, prompted by the Aurora shooting and continuing after
the Aug. 5 shootings at a Sikh temple near  Milwaukee . A gunman,
identified as Wade Michael Page, a 40-year-old U.S. Army
veteran, is suspected of killing six people in that incident
before police shot him dead.  The four-page solicitation from NRA executive vice
president Wayne LaPierre was sent to drum up funds to underwrite
an advertising and grassroots campaign to defeat President
 Barack Obama  and elect gun-rights supporters in Congress.  The letter drew criticism from the Denver-based Colorado
Ceasefire Capitol Fund, a gun-control advocacy group, whose
president Eileen McCarron called it “very insensitive.”  “Couldn’t they have waited at least a week, especially
here? People’s souls are really wounded,” she said.  ‘Heartfelt Condolences’  A copy of the NRA solicitation was provided by a former
Republican U.S. lawmaker who asked not to be identified as a
condition for releasing the letter. The NRA public affairs
office didn’t return phone calls seeking comment on the
fundraising letter.  The group has publicly been silent on gun-control proposals
since the Colorado shooting. In response to the Wisconsin
killings, Andrew Arulanandam, the NRA’s spokesman, issued this
statement: “NRA joins all Americans in extending our heartfelt
condolences to the victims, their families and the community
affected by this tragedy. We will not have further comment until
all the facts are known.”  Fundraising is increasingly important to the Fairfax,
Virginia-based NRA. The gun-rights organization’s membership
dues were 44 percent of its income in 2010, down from 58 percent
in 2008. In that period, gifts, grants and other contributions
rose to 26 percent from 16 percent of revenue, according to the
group’s tax returns. Total income was $228 million in 2010,
compared with $248 million in 2008.  ‘Confiscation’ of Firearms  The NRA’s political action committee raised almost $10
million from January 2011 through June 30, 2012, to spend on
election campaigns, about two-thirds of what it collected in
2007 and 2008, according to Washington-based Center for
Responsive Politics. It has spent $18.9 million on federal
campaigns since 1989, which ranks it as the 46th biggest donor
in that period, according to the center.  The solicitation letter says that Obama’s re-election would
result in the “confiscation of our firearms” and potentially a
“ban on semi-automatic weapons.” The suspect in the Aurora,
Colorado killings, 24-year-old James Holmes, had four semi-
automatic weapons at the theater, police said.  The letter says the money will be used for “hundreds of
thousands” of TV and radio ads, “especially in a handful of
key swing states.” The group also plans to buy ads in
newspapers and on the Internet and send mail to “millions” of
gun owners, LaPierre wrote in the letter.  The “extremist rhetoric” LaPierre uses in the letter
would offend the “mainstream public” in the days after the
Colorado shooting, said Dan Gross, president of the Washington-
based Brady Center to Prevent Gun Violence.  ‘Tragic Example’  “They know the public wants answers and solutions to a
problem that Aurora is one tragic example of,” Gross said. “So
this kind of rhetoric isn’t going to fly, but it’s just the kind
of rhetoric that helps them raise money behind the scenes with a
small group of extremists.”  Colorado State Shooting Association President Tony Fabian
said criticism of the fundraising letter was misplaced and that
the letter was probably in the works well before the shooting.  “These fundraising strategies require a lot of months of
planning and scheduling,” Fabian said. “It looks like the
timing is purely a coincidence.”  The NRA’s fundraising has benefited from a provision in a
1986 law that lifted the ban on interstate sales of ammunition
to consumers, allowing for mail-order purchases and then
 Internet sales . At the time the NRA praised the law as the
“greatest legislative milestone.”  NRA Donations  Through donations attached to mail-order and Internet
sales, the NRA has collected $9.3 million since 1992, according
to the website of MidwayUSA, a Columbia, Missouri ammunition
dealer. The company’s owner, Larry Potterfield, is founder of a
20-year-old program that asks customers to “round up” their
orders to the nearest dollar with the proceeds going to the NRA.  This year, Potterfield has pledged to match any NRA
contribution of as much as $100 made through his company’s
website. Potterfield and his wife, Brenda, are the “biggest
supporters” of the NRA, according to an NRA website for the
group’s top donors.  The Colorado mass shooting, in which police say Holmes
purchased 6,000 rounds of ammunition on the Internet, has
prompted calls for legislation to limit mail-order sales of guns
and ammunition. Former Representative James Oberstar, a
Minnesota Democrat who backed the gun measure in 1986, now says
allowing mail-order sales may have been a mistake.  Potterfield was unavailable for comment, his spokeswoman
Beth Cowgill said.  ‘Financial Stake’  The donations coming from mail-order and online purchases
demonstrate why the NRA is reluctant to join the debate on new
gun regulations, said Josh Sugarmann, head of the Violence
Policy Center, a Washington-based gun-control advocacy group.  “Recognizing the NRA’s financial stake and its main
benefactor have on online sales, it’s guaranteed they will
oppose any changes,” Sugarmann said.  Since the Colorado shootings, Senator  Frank Lautenberg  of
 New Jersey  and Representative Carolyn McCarthy of  New York , both
Democrats, have introduced legislation to curtail Internet sales
by requiring potential buyers of guns and ammunition to present
photo identification.  Other Democrats including  Charles Schumer  of New York, the
third-ranking Senate Democrat who helped pass a 10-year ban on
military-style assault weapons in 1994, have said there isn’t
much point in pushing for new gun restrictions given the NRA’s
influence.  ‘Common-Sense Measures’  Obama continues to support reinstatement of the assault
weapons ban, though there are no plans to press for
congressional action.  “We need to take common-sense measures that protect Second
Amendment rights and make it harder for those who should not
have weapons under existing law from obtaining weapons,” White
House spokesman  Jay Carney  said.  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , in the
aftermath of the Colorado shooting, said new laws wouldn’t
“make a difference in this type of tragedy.”  The group Mayors Against Illegal Guns has run television
ads during the Olympics calling for Obama and Romney to lay out
specific plans for reducing gun violence. New York Mayor  Michael
Bloomberg , founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP, parent
company of Bloomberg News, is co-chairman of the group.  FEC Filing  The group reported in an Aug. 6  Federal Election Commission 
filing that it’s spending $133,000 to produce and air that spot.
The filing also says the group received $3.4 million in
donations since January 2011, with $3.1 million coming from
Mayor Bloomberg and another $250,000 from billionaire
philanthropist  Eli Broad .  The NRA fundraising letter says the election will have
major consequences.  “The night of November 6, 2012, you and I will lose more
on the election battlefield than our nation has lost in any
battle, anytime, anywhere,” LaPierre wrote. “Or, we will win
our greatest victory as NRA members and freedom-loving
Americans.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  