-- NRC Chief Defends Regulator After Criticism of Fukushima Rules
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-08-07T16:49:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/nrc-chief-defends-regulator-after-criticism-of-fukushima-rules.html
Allison Macfarlane , chairman of the
U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission for a month, defended the
agency while meeting with critics who faulted decisions they
said favor operators and are based on indecipherable documents.  The safety agency is aligned with the nuclear industry to
an “astonishing” degree and uses a decision-making process
that’s impossible for the public to follow, Christopher Paine,
the nuclear program director at the New York-based Natural
Resources Defense Council, said today during the meeting at the
commission’s Rockville, Maryland headquarters. The response to
 Japan ’s Fukushima disaster so far is consistent with the NRC’s
“penchant for churning paper,” he said.  “I do share your concern about making NRC documents more
accessible and transparent,” Macfarlane said.  Macfarlane, sworn in on July 9, led the five-member
commission through a review of the response to the 9-magnitude
earthquake and tsunami in March 2011 that crippled  Tokyo
Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, causing
explosions, radiation leaks and meltdowns.  The Fukushima-related rules imposed on 104 commercial U.S.
reactors a year after the incident require companies such as
 Exelon Corp. (EXC)  and  Entergy Corp. (ETR)  to have a plan for plants to
indefinitely survive power blackouts. Reactor owners also must
have adequate instruments to monitor pools used to keep spent
fuel cool. Reactors with  General Electric Co (GE) .-designed
containment structures similar to those that failed at Fukushima
require sturdier venting systems to prevent damage.  ‘Staffing Challenges’  Too much focus on recommendations related to the Japanese
accident could divert plant owners’ attention from events with a
higher probability of occurring and create “staffing
challenges,” Casey Pfeiffer, the president of  Professional
Reactor Operator Society , told the commission.  Macfarlane questioned whether hiring additional staff in
response to the rules is an industry concern. Jim Scarola, co-
chairman of the Industry Fukushima Response Steering Committee,
said employees will be added where appropriate.  Macfarlane and Commissioner George Apostolakis also asked
about the industry’s plan to keep additional safety equipment at
plant sites and in off-site storage areas, saying companies
haven’t demonstrated gear can be deployed in the event of a
hurricane, a flood or a fire.  “I’m not convinced, I’m sorry,” Apostolakis said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  