-- NYSE in Discussions With SEC to Resolve Market-Data Feed Inquiry
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-08-07T00:45:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/nyse-in-discussions-with-sec-to-resolve-market-data-feed-inquiry.html
NYSE Euronext is working with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to address compliance
with a rule prohibiting markets from disseminating information
to subscribers faster than it is sent to organizations that
provide the data publicly.  NYSE Euronext and the SEC are resolving possible violations
of “a technical rule governing the timing of delivery of
certain exchange market data,”  Richard Adamonis , a spokesman,
said in an e-mail. “The company does not expect that any
settlement of this matter will be material.”  U.S. securities exchanges aren’t allowed to release data
about trades and their best bids and offers to clients faster
than they send it to the organizations that collect and
disseminate it publicly. Exchanges earn money from the sale of
subscriptions to proprietary and public data feeds, or streams
of information.  Proprietary market data from an exchange enables clients to
get transaction-related information faster than the public since
the content doesn’t have to be collected from all venues and
aggregated. The data also includes information that’s not
public, such as the number of shares available at different
prices. Data vendors such as Bloomberg LP, the parent of
Bloomberg News, and Thomson Reuters Corp. pay the information
processors a fee for data and charge their own customers.
Exchanges share the revenue they receive collectively.  Rule 603(a) of Regulation NMS prohibits releasing
information faster through a proprietary data feed.  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  received $193 million for the sale of cash
equities market data last year, according to a regulatory
filing. That segment includes the sale of public data in the
U.S. and some of the data revenue generated in  Europe .  Reuters, which reported the news earlier, said a settlement
is probably a few months away.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 