-- Oaktree Swings to Second-Quarter Profit as Assets Climb
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-08-07T20:30:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/oaktree-posts-second-quarter-profit-as-assets-advance-1-.html
Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK) , the
world’s largest distressed-debt investor, posted a second-
quarter profit compared with a loss in the year-earlier period
as assets and fees for managing them climbed.  Net income rose to $24.7 million, or 84 cents, from a loss
of $20.4 million, or 90 cents, a year earlier, Los Angeles-based
Oaktree said in a statement today. Assets under management rose
to $78.7 billion from $77.9 billion at the end of the first
quarter as the firm attracted new commitments.  Oaktree, which went public in April, has sought to take
advantage of slumping markets and  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis
by buying distressed assets. It plans to close its ninth
distressed-debt fund after gathering $4.9 billion in
commitments,  John Frank , a managing principal of the firm, said
today in a telephone interview.  Strong fundraising and realizations have made the firm
“well positioned to capitalize on the current market
conditions,” Frank said.  Oaktree shares rose 1.4 percent to close at $37.52 in New
York. The shares have fallen 13 percent since the April 11
initial public offering that raised less than the firm sought.
Oaktree raised $380 million in its IPO, selling 8.84 million
shares for $43 each, the bottom of the proposed range.  Adjusted net income, a measure of profit excluding some
costs, rose 17 percent to $165.5 million, or 89 cents a share,
from $141.3 million, or 69 cents, a year earlier, Oaktree said.
Adjusted net income excludes some expenses, including non-cash
equity compensation and income taxes.  European Assets  Distressed debt firms such as Oaktree seek bargain-priced
assets that are being shed by companies having financial
difficulties, nearing default or in breach of their contracts.  Investment opportunities in Europe haven’t arisen at the
pace investors expected as regulators have cut  interest rates  to
record lows. Chairman  Howard Marks  told Bloomberg Television
last month that actions by the  European Central Bank  have taken
pressure off banks to sell assets such as bad loans.  “We still need the development of some events that are
going to scare the hell out of people,” Marks, who co-founded
Oaktree in 1995, said at the Morgan Stanley Financials
Conference in June. “That’s what gives rise to that great
environment where everybody wants to sell and nobody wants to
buy. That’s the raw material for our greatest returns.”  Marks has also seen investment opportunities in U.S. real
estate, where he is betting on a comeback in the market for
single-family homes. He told Bloomberg TV last month that a
general aversion to real estate by investors is “a mistake.”  Oaktree started raising money for a real estate fund in the
second quarter, which has a target of $1.5 billion, according to
the firm. Oaktree Opportunities Fund IX LP, the firm’s
distressed-debt fund that it soon plans to close, came to market
in October with a goal to raise $4 billion to $6 billion.  The
fund had closed on $4.6 billion as of June 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  