-- Loan-Shark Lending Surge Feared in Japan
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2012-08-08T08:04:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/loan-shark-lending-surge-feared-in-japan.html
Toyoki Yoshida recalls the winter day
in 2002 when he tried to hang himself with a leather belt after
yakuza thugs hounded him for weeks to pay back 500,000 yen
($6,300) in loans.  The belt ripped as his neck strained the noose, saving his
life. The loans, with  interest rates  as high as 5,000 percent
annually, were among those Yoshida owed to 96 loan sharks --some
with connections to organized crime. Working in the billing
department of a  Tokyo  electronics company, he’d been borrowing
from consumer-finance companies to entertain clients and
colleagues and fell into a spiral of debt which cost him his
job. It ended when lawyers helped Yoshida terminate his
contracts through a  bankruptcy  filing and partial payments.  “I’d started to borrow money from illegal lenders only
after legitimate companies began refusing to front me cash,”
the 40-year-old said in an interview in a drab debt-counseling
office in the Tokyo suburb of Okegawa. “I was panicking. I
didn’t have time to think.”  As Japanese committing suicide for “economic reasons”
climbed to almost 9,000 a year by the mid-2000s, according to
the  National Police Agency ,  Japan ’s Diet passed a law in late
2006 clamping down on predatory lending. Such suicides fell to
6,400 last year, lending crimes dropped 24 percent since the
crackdown to 366 cases, and the involvement in them of yakuza,
or crime syndicates, fell to 83 from 142, the police reported.  Going Backward  Now lawmakers who say the legislation went too far in
cutting credit to small businesses in a stagnant  economy  want to
ease restrictions on so-called non-bank lending. That’s sparking
conflict with the financial regulator and consumer advocates who
argue that any loosening will bring back excessive borrowing and
yakuza lending, enriching gangsters and increasing the suicide
rate once again.  “It’d be going backward,” said Kenji Utsunomiya, a former
head of the  Japan Federation of Bar Associations  who has won
court battles against yakuza-affiliated lenders. “The non-bank
lending market must stay regulated because borrowers desperate
for cash aren’t equal to lenders and are often putty in their
hands.”  The opposition  Liberal Democratic Party ’s financial
committee in May unveiled a plan to scrap the part of the law
that limits credit to a third of a borrower’s income, and to
lift its current 20 percent cap on loan  interest rates  to 30
percent. Masaaki Taira, the LDP lawmaker leading the campaign,
said he plans to submit a bill to the next Diet session
scheduled for January.  Loans ‘Vital’  “Short-term loans are vital for small-business owners, who
often rely on non-bank financing to make a purchase before
receiving payment from clients,” Taira, whose family owns a
small vegetable wholesaler with 3 billion yen annual revenue,
said in an interview. “What we need is increased counseling to
protect people with heavy debts.”  Even within the ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan, some see
the need for loosening. The DPJ’s financial panel met July 5 to
consider legislation allowing consumer-finance companies to
provide emergency loans to  small enterprises  at interest rates
above the current 20 percent limit. That proposal could be
combined with the LDP’s version and submitted to the Diet.  In the interim, the government regulator sees no
“immediate” need to review money-lending laws, Financial
Services Minister Tadahiro Matsushita said in June.  Reduced Debtors  Tightened regulations helped reduce the number of debtors
with at least five unsecured, unguaranteed loans from consumer-
finance lenders to 440,000 people in March from 1.7 million five
years earlier, Financial Services Agency data show. Loans from
such firms, including  Acom (8572)  Co. and  Aiful (8515)  Corp., declined 40
percent over five years to 26.1 trillion yen as of March 2011,
according to the data.  Shares of Tokyo-based Acom, Japan’s biggest consumer
lender, have tumbled 68 percent in the six years since the
crackdown began. Kyoto-based Aiful plunged 97 percent in the
same period. Acom rose 1 percent to 1,697 yen in Tokyo trading
today, and Aiful gained 0.8 percent to 131 yen.  Japan’s 2,300 consumer-finance companies, which sell debt
to fund loans rather than take deposits, provided 5.1 percent of
685 trillion yen in outstanding corporate and consumer credit as
of March 31, according to central bank data. Banks lent the
remaining 650 trillion yen. There’s no official data on loan-
shark activity, also known as “yamikin,” which translates as
“lending in the dark.”  Short-Term Cash  “Decisive regulation tackled the social issues very well
in the late 2000s, dealing a blow to yamikin lenders,” said
 Yasuhide Yajima , chief economist at  NLI Research Institute  in
Tokyo. “But the remedy carried an economic side-effect that’s
driving lawmakers to seek a revision. Mom-and-pop business
owners who want quick, short-term cash haven’t been able to
borrow as much as they used to.”  The law was passed after the  Supreme Court  ruled against
lenders charging excessive interest rates. The legislation,
which began rolling out in 2007 and took full effect in 2010,
sparked customer claims for interest refunds, triggering
billions of dollars in  industry losses .  In 2004, the Bar Association’s Utsunomiya had led a group
of lawyers representing borrowers -- including Yoshida -- who
sued Susumu Kajiyama, deputy leader of Goryo-Kai, a now-defunct
crime organization that was then affiliated with the Yamaguchi
Gumi, Japan’s largest yakuza syndicate. More than 180 debtors
won 587 million yen in compensation from Kajiyama, who was
dubbed the “Loan-Shark King” and hid 5.1 billion yen in Swiss
bank accounts, said Utsunomiya.  Threat Letters  Yoshida’s debt case was among the most severe he’d ever
seen, said Utsunomiya, who keeps in his office black-lacquered
funerary boxes enclosing threat letters sent to debtors by
gangsters and hand-written fliers posted by yakuza members in
borrowers’ neighborhoods seeking to shame them into paying.  As well as loan sharking, the criminal enterprises of the
yakuza include theft, fraud, drugs, prostitution and  money
laundering , according to a National Police Agency  report .
Membership totaled 70,300 as of the beginning of this year, the
lowest in 20 years, compared with 84,400 a decade ago, due to a
series of crackdowns, the police reported.  Anti-Gang Laws  Anti-gang laws, first passed in 1992 and strengthened over
the years, prohibit gangsters from raising protection money and
collecting on debts using “improper” methods. The government
has also punished companies that deal with the yakuza, further
marginalizing them.  Some research has found yamikin lending growing since the
crackdown. Such loans numbered 580,000 last year, up from
420,000 in 2009, said Hiroshi Domoto, a  Tokyo University of
Information Sciences  professor who favors increasing legal
borrowing limits because the restrictions curbed legitimate
consumer-finance lending. The debt-to-income constraints and
interest-rate cap on loans that went into force in 2010 led
those in need to turn to loan sharks, he said.  Still, the loan business has become tougher for gangsters,
according to a member of one of Japan’s biggest yakuza groups.  The person, who asked not to be named because of his
association with the organization, said he used to lend money to
small-business owners at rates ranging from 5 percent a month to
10 percent a week. Dressed in a pinstriped suit and missing his
little finger, he said he found it harder to collect on loans
after the crackdowns and passage of the various laws. Now, he
said, he’s concentrating on making money from other lines of
business, including trading  stocks .  Fukuoka Arrests  Lending crimes continue to be reported. In the southwestern
Japanese city of Fukuoka, two men were arrested in May for
lending at least 85 million yen to people at rates 32 times
higher than the legal limit, an officer at the Fukuoka Chuo
Police Department said, asking for his name not to be used due
to department policy.  Prosecutors charged Shinta Inatomi and Yuki Kinoshita with
violating laws on money lending and the prevention of transfer
of criminal proceeds, and the first trial hearing is scheduled
for Aug. 30 at Fukuoka district court, a court officer said,
speaking anonymously according to judicial policy. Contact
information for the men couldn’t be obtained in directories, and
the court doesn’t release the whereabouts of charged
individuals.  “Even though yamikin-lending crime decreased gradually,
concerns that it may increase in the coming years have yet to be
dispelled,” according to the National Police Agency report in
April.  ‘Heart-Warming Credit’  Yoshida began accumulating debts in the early 1990s, when
he tapped  consumer lenders’  fast-cash services for entertaining.
By 2000, he owed 30 million yen, including a home mortgage.
After creditors called him at work demanding repayment for his
overdue loans, the situation became so intolerable he had to
leave his job. It was then that Yoshida turned to loan sharks.  Lured by a tabloid newspaper advertisement offering a
“heart-warming” credit plan, he went to the building the
lender shared with tenants including prostitution agencies in
Tokyo’s bustling Shinjuku district. With the door of the eighth-
floor office locked behind him, he said he took out his first
yamikin loan: 50,000 yen at 27,000 yen interest a week, which
works out to 2,800 percent a year.  “To repay loans from a non-bank, I borrowed money from a
yamikin,” Yoshida said, “and to repay that, I borrowed from
another yamikin.”  Soon he owed money, debts mostly in the range of 50,000
yen, to 96 loan sharks all over the Japanese capital. Illegal
lenders called him and threatened his parents’ lives if he
missed payments. They also recommended he sell one of his
kidneys, Yoshida said.  Be Worried  “I’d be worried if the laws were to be loosened and
yamikin lenders become widespread again,” said Yoshida, who now
works as a debt counselor for chronic borrowers. “My office
would then be full of heavy debtors.”  His broken belt on that cold February day helped Yoshida
avoid becoming one of the more than 32,000 people in Japan who
took their own  lives  in 2002, 7,940 of them for economic
motives. Suicides rose to 34,427 the following year, Cabinet
Office figures show, with 8,897 of them labeled economic. The
number fell to 30,651 last year.  “I was ignorant back then,” Yoshida said. “I am grateful
to the lawyers who gave me the knowledge to get myself out of
the dark and get my life back.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  