-- Obama Says U.S. to Add $30 Million to Drought Relief
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-08-07T21:53:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/obama-says-u-s-to-add-30-million-to-drought-relief.html
President  Barack Obama  said the
administration will provide an additional $30 million to aid
farmers and ranchers who are dealing with the worst drought in
56 years.  “This has been an all hands on deck response,” Obama said
before meeting with Cabinet officials including Labor Secretary
Hilda Solis and Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack at the White
House. “It is a historic drought and it has had a profound
impact on farmers and ranchers.”  Obama said the new Agriculture Department aid will help get
more water to livestock and rehabilitate land affected by the
drought, which is scorching crops and forcing farmers to sell
cattle and hogs for lack of feed. The conditions ultimately will
hit consumers in higher food prices.  The president also urged Congress to pass the farm bill,
saying that as members go home he hopes they will see the
devastation and have a “greater sense of urgency.”  The U.S. House passed a $383 million emergency relief
package on Aug. 2 for livestock producers affected by the
drought but didn’t take action on a larger five-year
reauthorization of agricultural programs because lawmakers
lacked enough votes. The Senate, which returns Sept. 10, took no
action.  In addition to boosting aid, Obama said his administration
is working with crop insurance companies to offer a “grace
period” for unpaid insurance premiums and is opening up more
land for haying and grazing for livestock.  Grazing Land  The government also expanded the area of federally
subsidized conservation land available for emergency grazing to
3.8 million acres, and said crop-insurance companies have agreed
to a short grace period for farmer premium payments.  The effects of the drought are hitting grain-processing and
export companies, such as Cargill Inc., as well as shippers and
even tourism.  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) , the largest U.S. meat processor,
said yesterday its profit will be lower after the company was
forced to pay more for grain to feed animals.  Conditions for the top two U.S. crops, corn and soybeans,
are the worst since 1988. The U.S. corn crop, valued at $76.5
billion in 2011 is rated 50 percent poor or very poor, the
Agriculture Department said yesterday. About 39 percent of the
soybean crop, worth $35.8 billion last year, was rated poor or
very poor as of Aug. 5.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  