-- Oil Drops From Two-Month High in New York as U.S. Demand Eases
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-08-08T06:53:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/oil-trades-near-two-month-high-in-new-york-on-drop-in-stockpiles.html
Oil slid from the highest close in
more than two months as investors sold contracts on speculation
that recent gains were excessive amid signs of weakening demand
in the U.S, the world’s biggest consumer of crude.  Futures fell as much as 0.6 percent, dropping for the first
time in four days. Oil’s gains stalled near the upper Bollinger
Band, an indicator of technical resistance. Crude consumption
declined  4 percent  to 15.9 million barrels last week, the
biggest percentage decrease in a month, data from the  American
Petroleum Institute  showed. Gasoline  usage  was the lowest since
February, according to the API figures.  “We’ll probably need to see further good news, further
improvements in demand and the economic growth outlook for oil
to move significantly higher,” said Ric Spooner, a chief market
analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney. “We have seen a strong rally
off the bottom of a few weeks ago.”  Oil for September delivery decreased as much as 60 cents to
$93.07 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $93.16 at 2:50 p.m. Singapore time. It
climbed 1.6 percent yesterday to $93.67, the highest settlement
since May 15. The contract has rebounded 20 percent from its low
this year of $77.69 on June 28 and gained 5.8 percent so far in
August. Prices are 5.7 percent lower since the start of the year.  Brent crude  for September settlement fell 65 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $111.35 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark’s premium to West Texas
Intermediate was $18.20, down from $18.33 yesterday.  Bollinger Band  Oil in  New York  has technical resistance along the upper
Bollinger Band on the daily chart, about $94.96 a barrel today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Futures yesterday
halted their advance near this indicator. Sell orders tend to be
clustered near chart-resistance levels.  U.S. gasoline demand last week was 3 percent less than a
year ago, the 49th straight drop in that measure, according to
 MasterCard Inc. (MA) ’s SpendingPulse report yesterday.  Crude inventories in the U.S. declined  5.4 million barrels 
last week, API data showed. An Energy Department report today
may show supplies fell 1.6 million barrels, according to the
median estimate of 10 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.
Gasoline stockpiles rose  417,000 barrels  last week, the API said.
The Energy Department report may show they fell 1.75 million
barrels, according to the Bloomberg survey.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  Hurricane Ernesto  Ernesto, the second hurricane of the Atlantic season, moved
inland over the southern coast of the Yucatan Peninsula, the
National Hurricane Center said in an advisory. The Category 1
cyclone had top winds of 85 miles per hour, up from 65 mph
earlier. The storm is expected to enter the Bay of Campeche, the
location of  Mexico ’s biggest oil fields, later today.  The U.S. Energy Department raised its 2012 crude-price
projection for the first time since April as global fuel
consumption was forecast to increase. New York oil will average
$93.90 a barrel this year, up 1.2 percent from the July forecast
of $92.83, the department’s Energy Information Administration
said in its monthly Short-Term Energy Outlook yesterday. The U.S.
benchmark grade will average $90.25 in 2013, up 2 percent from
last month’s estimate of $88.50.  Enbridge Energy Partners LP (EEP)  started crude Line 14 that was
shut previously following a leak in  Wisconsin , a company
statement distributed by Marketwire showed yesterday. The system
carries Canadian crude to refineries in the U.S. Midwest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  