-- Oil Near Two-Week High on U.S. Supplies; Brent Tops $110
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-08-07T12:19:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/oil-trades-near-two-week-high-on-forecasts-u-s-supplies-dropped.html
Oil traded near its highest in two
weeks in  New York  on forecasts that crude inventories fell in
the U.S., the world’s largest consumer of the commodity. Brent
surpassed $110 a barrel for the first time in 11 weeks.  West Texas Intermediate futures were little changed,
recouping an earlier loss of 0.5 percent. U.S. crude stockpiles
probably dropped  1.6 million barrels  last week, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of nine analysts before an Energy
Department report tomorrow. Tropical storm Ernesto was forecast
to become a hurricane as it heads for  Mexico ’s Bay of Campeche.  “The market has been bolstered by significant crude stock
drawdowns reported in recent weeks,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov ,
an analyst at VTB Capital in  London . “There’s probably a bit of
additional support coming from Ernesto, set to become a
hurricane by late tonight.”  Crude for September delivery was at $92.52 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 1:12
p.m. London time, having slid as much as 42 cents to $91.78 a
barrel. It settled yesterday at $92.20, the highest level since
July 19. Prices are 6.4 percent lower this year.  Brent crude  for September settlement rose above $110 a
barrel for the first time since May 17. It climbed as high as
$110.45, and was up 90 cents at $110.40 on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. The European benchmark’s premium to
West Texas Intermediate was at $17.89 from $17.35 yesterday.  North Sea Loadings  Daily exports of North Sea Brent, Forties, Oseberg and
Ekofisk crudes, which make up the Dated Brent benchmark, in
September will be 7 percent less than this month, loading
programs obtained by Bloomberg News show.  Exports will be 720,000 barrels a day versus 774,194
barrels in August, according to the plans. That is the lowest in
at least five years. Dated Brent is used to price more than half
of the world’s oil supplies.  Loading programs are monthly schedules of crude shipments
compiled by field operators to allow buyers and sellers to plan
their supply and trading activities.  Tropical Storm  Ernesto  was forecast to strengthen on its
path to the Bay of Campeche, home to most of Mexico’s crude
production. The hurricane center’s tracking map shows Ernesto
making landfall tomorrow on the northern coast of Belize,
crossing the Yucatan into the bay as a tropical storm and then
returning to land in southern Mexico.  Petroleos Mexicanos , Mexico’s state-owned oil company, has
wells in the Bay of Campeche including the Cantarell and Ku-
Maloob-Zaap production areas.  Mexico  was the third-largest oil
exporter to the U.S. in 2011, supplying 1.1 million barrels a
day, data from the U.S. Energy Department show.  Chevron Refinery  Crude stockpiles dropped 1.6 million barrels, or 0.4
percent, to 372 million in the seven days ended Aug. 3,
according to the median of nine analyst estimates before an
Energy Department report tomorrow. The decrease would leave
supplies at the lowest level since April 13. Oil inventories
plummeted 6.52 million barrels in the week ended July 27, the
biggest slide since December.  Separately, Chevron Corp. said it contained a fire that
broke out in the crude unit at its Richmond refinery, the
largest in northern  California .  The company was bringing down units after a blaze at the
No. 4 crude unit started yesterday around 6:15 p.m. local time,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the operation who
asked not to be identified because the information isn’t public.  Flames were brought under control as of 10:30 p.m. local
time, and all employees at the refinery have been accounted for,
said Melissa Ritchie, a Chevron spokeswoman at the plant. The
plant reported an evacuation after the fire broke out, a filing
with the California Emergency Management Agency shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  