-- Oil at Two-Month High as Equities Gain, Dollar Declines
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-08-07T20:50:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/oil-near-two-week-high-on-u-s-supplies-brent-tops-110.html
Oil rose to the highest level in more
than two months, advancing with equities on optimism that
economic growth will accelerate and as tension increased in the
Middle East.  Futures climbed 1.6 percent as the  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index (SPX)  reached a three-month high, led by commodity and
industrial shares, on speculation that central banks will boost
efforts to lift growth. Rebels in Syria said Prime Minister Riad Hijab defected in the highest-ranking departure since an
uprising began last year.  “The oil market is getting strength from the financial
side,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition
Energy in Stamford,  Connecticut . “Equities are up and the
dollar is down. We’re also getting support from increasing
geopolitical risk in the Middle East.”  Crude oil for September delivery increased $1.47 to $93.67
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement
since May 15. Prices are up 6.4 percent this month.  Prices were little changed from the settlement after the
industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  reported oil
inventories dropped 5.35 million barrels last week to 364.3
million. The September contract was up $1.38 at $93.58 at 4:34
p.m. in electronic trading.  Brent oil for September settlement climbed $2.45, or 2.2
percent, to end the session at $112 on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. It was the highest close since May 15.
The European benchmark’s premium to West Texas Intermediate, the
grade traded in New York, rose to $18.33 from $17.35 yesterday.  Easing Program  Equities and commodities gained as Federal  Reserve Bank  of
Boston President  Eric Rosengren  said on CNBC that the central
bank should pursue an “open-ended” easing program of
“substantial magnitude” to boost growth and hiring. German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  backed a bond-buying plan announced by
the  European Central Bank , a spokesman said yesterday.  “There are expectations that the Europeans will take
additional steps to deal with the crisis and of further monetary
easing here,” said  Mike Wittner , head of oil market research at
Societe Generale SA in New York. “Sentiment is improving.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.5 percent. The S&P
GSCI Index of 24 raw materials climbed 1.1 percent.  Hijab’s defection marked the highest-ranking departure
since the uprising against Assad began last year. It was the
most serious blow to the Syrian authorities since last month,
when a bomb attack in Damascus killed key members of the
military establishment. Government troops clashed with rebels
today in and near Damascus, Aleppo, Homs, Daraa and other areas,
the Syrian Arab News Agency reported.  Middle East  The  Middle East  was responsible for 33 percent of global
oil production last year and held 79 percent of proved reserves,
according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy
released in June.  Oil also rose as  the U.S. Energy Department  raised its
crude-oil projection for 2012 to $93.90 a barrel from $92.83
last month in the monthly Short-Term Energy Outlook released
today. The department cited expectations of economic stimulus
and supply disruption in the Middle East as reason for the rise
in prices over the last month.  A department report tomorrow will probably show that U.S.
crude stockpiles dropped 1.55 million barrels last week,
according to the median of 10 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg
survey. Oil inventories plummeted 6.52 million barrels in the
week ended July 27, the biggest slide since December.  “Last week’s inventory drop helped push prices higher,”
said  Stephen Schork , president of The Schork Group Inc. in
Villanova, Pennsylvania. “It’s important to keep in mind that
inventories remain very high.”  Gasoline Supplies  Gasoline supplies are projected to decrease 1.75 million
barrels in tomorrow’s report and stockpiles of distillate fuel,
a category that includes diesel and heating oil are forecast to
rise 250,000 barrels, the survey showed.  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  said it shut a crude unit after a fire at its
240,000-barrel-a-day Richmond, California, refinery.  Crude also rose as loading programs obtained by Bloomberg
showed that exports in September of the crudes that make up the
Dated Brent benchmark will be 7 percent less than this month,
Exports will be 720,000 barrels a day versus 774,194 barrels
this month, according to the plans.  “The very lean North Sea loading programs are having a
major impact on prices,” Wittner said. “Although we’ve known
for a while about the cutbacks, it appears that the loss of the
North Sea barrels hasn’t been fully priced in.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 568,474
contracts as of 4:31 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 419,723
contracts yesterday, 25 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.43 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  