-- London Lots Soar as Cash-Rich Funds Fill Bank Void: Mortgages
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-08-08T14:11:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/london-lots-soar-as-cash-rich-funds-fill-bank-void-mortgages.html
Great Portland Estates Plc (GPOR)  didn’t
have to build a thing to boost the value of its development site
in London’s Mayfair district. The 1.3-acre plot appreciated by
10 percent in the second quarter, almost twice the return that
income-producing office buildings there will generate this year.  Development in the U.K. capital is gaining appeal as a lack
of bank financing for construction contributes to a scarcity of
new properties and bolsters land values in areas like the  West
End , where a concentration of  hedge funds  has helped lift rents
to the second-highest in the world after Hong Kong. The value of
Great Portland’s Hanover Square has climbed about 50 percent
since April 2011, a month before the real estate investment
trust won permission to build there.  U.K. banks are, for the first time in at least 11 years,
unwilling to finance development projects without a tenant
committed to lease space or a buyer for the completed property,
according to a study by De Montfort University. The lack of
lending means investors with cash like Qatar’s sovereign wealth
fund, private-equity firm  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  and U.K. REITs such
as Great Portland can construct buildings that will be in demand
when they’re completed.  “The ability of people to play the development game in
London is pretty much limited to those with large equity checks,
sovereign wealth positions or very strong balance sheets who can
bring on board corporate debt,” Martin Jepson,  Brookfield
Office Properties Inc. (BPO) ’s senior vice president for development
and investment, said in an interview. “That’s one of the
reasons London is attractive to us.”  Building Plans  About 5 percent of all central London commercial real
estate spending in the first half of 2012 was on development
sites for offices and shops, from virtually zero last year and
2.6 percent in 2010, according to Martin Davis, U.K. research
analyst at broker DTZ.  Development usually carries higher risks and greater
potential returns than investments in completed commercial
properties with rent-paying tenants in place. A shortage of
prime commercial real estate for sale in London is reducing the
risk.  Total return, a combination of rent increases and property
value gains, will be  5.8 percent  in the West End this year, down
from 12.4 percent in 2011, according to an estimate by  Jones
Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  City of London returns will fall to 4.5
percent in 2012 from 13.1 percent last year, the property broker
forecast.  Monthly rents for prime offices in the West End averaged
92.50 pounds ($144.74) a square foot last year, broker Knight
Frank LLP said in a March report.  Savile Row  Mayfair is popular as an office location for hedge funds,
including Moore Capital Management LLC and GLG Partners Inc.
Savile Row’s renowned tailors and Claridge’s Hotel are a few
streets away from Hanover Square. British Land Co., which will
develop the Clarges Estate on the opposite end of Mayfair, may
return a profit of more than 20 percent when the project is
finished, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Brookfield agreed in June to buy a site at Principal Place
near the City of London as part of a 518 million-pound portfolio
purchase from  Hammerson Plc. (HMSO)  Carlyle plans to  develop  eight
buildings as high as 48 floors on a site near the Tate Modern
museum in London’s Southbank district. Qatar will build a
Harrods-branded hotel and apartments at  Chelsea Barracks , which
it bought for 959 million pounds in 2008.  Great Portland has gained the most among members of the
 FTSE350 REIT Index (F3REITS)  this year, with a 34 percent gain. British
Land increased 18 percent.  Loans Vanish  One in three lenders in the U.K. didn’t advance a single
commercial property loan last year, Bill Maxted and Trudi Porter
said in a survey by De Montfort University published in May. The
trend is continuing after lenders reduced the availability of
commercial real estate credit in the second quarter of 2012 and
had no plans to increase it through September, according to a
 Bank of England   survey  in June.  “There’ll be very little competition in terms of new
development,”  Irvine  Sellar, whose Sellar Property Group
developed the Shard skyscraper in London along with Qatar
Central Bank, said in a July interview. “Take Battersea Power
Station, which I think was overrated as a site, but half a dozen
companies were chasing it down.”  Malaysian consortium  SP Setia Bhd. (SPSB) ,  Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME)  and the
Employees Provident Fund will start the 8 billion-pound
development of Battersea Power Station next year on the River
Thames in southwest London.  Sovereign Wealth  Sovereign wealth funds have  six billion pounds  to invest in
London, 9 percent more than in November, CBRE Group Inc. said in
May. Private buyers had 5 billion pounds and U.S. funds like
 Blackstone Group LP (BX)  had 4 billion pounds, the property broker
said.  That demand makes owners more reluctant to sell as they
wait for prices to increase further, Osmaan Malik, an analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a July 25 note.  “There’s a lack of supply, so if you want to invest more
money you might have to go up the risk curve a little bit and
one way of doing that is moving to development,” Robert Stassen, a research director at Jones Lang, said on a July 19
call with reporters.  Investors from outside of the U.K. have bought two-thirds
of the 1.6 billion pounds of development land for commercial
real estate by value sold in central London since the start of
2006, according to DTZ data.  Construction Slows  Developing allows investors to take advantage of a slowdown
in construction, the biggest drag on the U.K.’s economy in the
second quarter, to get buildings completed for less. The cost of
erecting an office block with ground floor shops in London’s
West End has fallen as much as 25 percent since 2008, Iain Parker, head of European offices at real-estate adviser  Davis
Langdon , said in an e-mail.  Buying land in London “is probably slightly less risky
because you’ve got more options in how you can ultimately
develop it,” said Paul Cheshire, professor of economic
geography at London School of Economics. “If you buy a high-end
residential building in a conservation area or listed building,
you’re extremely restricted in what you can do.”  Development has generated a mixed bag of results for
companies that started construction on five towers near the Bank
of England beginning in 2008. Office rents in the City of London
financial district in the three months through March were still
25 percent below their level in the quarter through March 2008,
according to Investment Property Databank. Rents have stayed at
about 55 pounds a square foot since the last three months of
2010, according to CBRE Group.  Walkie Talkie  Construction on the Pinnacle, a 1 million square-foot
(93,000 square-meter) office tower, has stalled, according to
broker Drivers Jonas Deloitte. The Heron Tower and the Shard
have been completed and aren’t fully occupied. Lease agreements
have been signed for part of the space at  British Land’s (BLND) 
Cheesegrater skyscraper and the Walkie Talkie at 20 Fenchurch
Street, a joint venture between  Land Securities Group Plc (LAND)  and
Canary Wharf Group Plc, prior to the towers’ completion.  Qatar, which owns 95 percent of the Shard, will redevelop
most of the Royal Dutch Shell Plc complex near Waterloo railroad
station in a venture with Canary Wharf Group.  “This is a long-term investment,” Qatar Central Bank
Governor Sheikh Abdullah Bin Saoud Al Thani said of the Shard at
a briefing in July. “This is part of our relationship and our
confidence about the London market.”  Qatar has invested more than 20 billion pounds in London
since the economic crisis, Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad Bin Jasim Bin Jabr al-Thani said at the opening ceremony for the Shard.
“There are a lot of things in the pipeline,” he said.  Brookfield Develops  New York-based Brookfield agreed in July to develop an
office building on London Wall Place in the City of London with
Oxford Properties Group Inc.  Brookfield will fund the purchase of Hammerson’s London
buildings by taking on 66 million pounds of debt. It plans to
add further borrowings against the property before the deal
closes and will also use its own cash, the company said in a
June 19 statement. Development of the 1.1 million square feet of
 office space  planned for the two sites will cost about 300
million pounds to 350 million pounds including Oxford
Properties’ share, Jepson said.  ‘Big Bet’  Brookfield also owns half of 100 Bishopsgate, an office
tower planned near Liverpool Street rail station. The purchases
are “a big bet on the City of London marketplace but we’re
pretty confident long term,” Jepson  said. “We’ve got three
very good buildings that appeal to different tenants.”  The firm rose 0.2 percent to $16.87 at 10:08 a.m. in New
York, extending its gain for the year to 7.9 percent.  Developers should ensure they can attract a diverse mix of
occupiers, said Colin Lizieri, a real estate professor at
 Cambridge University . He cautions against specializing in
erecting office buildings for financial services companies in
global banking centers.  “If you get a shock in global financial markets, it’s
going to affect all of those cities,” he said. “If the idea of
having a global real estate portfolio is to protect you from
risks and to give you diversification, it doesn’t seem a very
obvious strategy to buy in a whole series of cities linked to
the same economic drivers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 