-- Monti Told by Lawmaker Allies to Halt Berlusconi Criticism
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-08-07T15:07:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/monti-told-by-lawmaker-allies-to-halt-criticism-of-berlusconi.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
was advised by allies in parliament to curb his criticism of his
predecessor,  Silvio Berlusconi , or risk seeing his government
fall.  Monti, who relies on Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party
to govern, told the Wall Street Journal in an interview
published today that  Italy ’s borrowing costs would be
substantially higher if the billionaire were still in charge.  “This unjustified provocation, as useless as it is stupid,
will be returned to its sender,” said  Fabrizio Cicchitto , head
of the PDL delegation in Italy’s lower house. Maurizio Gasparri,
leader of the PDL in the Senate in  Rome , said “we could lose
our patience sooner or later” with Monti. The PDL’s vice
president in the Chamber, Maurizio Bianconi, said the party may
consider “sending Monti home.”  Monti said in a statement he apologized to Berlusconi over
the telephone. The Journal comments were Monti’s second gaffe in
less than a week, unsettling his support at home after he riled
up euro-area partners with an interview in a German magazine.  ‘Attack on Democracy’  The unelected Monti, in the Aug. 5 interview with  Der
Spiegel , called on governments to exercise greater autonomy from
national parliaments as they confront the  European debt crisis .
Those comments were an “attack on democracy,” according to
Alexander Dobrindt, general secretary of a Germany’s Christian
Social Union for Bavaria. Monti responded yesterday, saying that
lawmakers’ autonomy was “not in question.”  In his apology to Berlusconi, Monti said his remarks were
misinterpreted.  Monti “is sorry that a banal and theoretical trend
extrapolation of the values of the spread, which was contained
in a broader discussion with the WSJ, was received as a
political statement,” according to a statement from his office.  Italy’s 10-year bond yields have declined by more than 100
basis points since Monti came to power in November. The country
pays 447 basis points more on 10-year debt than  Germany , a level
similar to when Monti arrived as German bonds have also
advanced. In the interview, Monti said that  spread  would be
1,200 basis points under the old government.  Austerity Plan  Monti is under pressure to demonstrate the value of his
austerity-focused government as  Europe ’s debt crisis threatens
to push Italy into an international rescue. He is seeking to
convince the electorate that his spending cuts and tax
increases, which have driven Italy deeper into recession, have
improved the country’s finances.  “I know that we are not recognized as saviors of the
country,” Monti said, according to the Journal. “But I am
convinced that we did salvage the situation.”  Monti had no intention of stoking controversy with his
comments, a government official said in a statement prior to
Monti’s apology. Italy needed an unelected government of
technocrats to ease bond market speculation, the official said.  The center-right PDL is the biggest party in Monti’s
coalition, which also includes Berlusconi’s traditional rivals
in the center-left  Democratic Party . Monti, a former university
president and European Union commissioner, formed his Cabinet
from apolitical ministers brought in to government from academia
and business.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net . 