-- Moody’s Says Ireland ‘Rightly Positioned’ at Junk Rating
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-08-07T16:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/moody-s-says-ireland-rightly-positioned-at-junk-rating-1-.html
Moody’s Investors Service said
Ireland’s credit rating is “rightly positioned” at non-
investment grade even after the country returned to
international bond markets last month.  Moody’s cut Ireland’s credit rating to Ba1, the highest
non-investment rating, from Baa3 in July 2011, and kept the
outlook on “negative.”  “Ba1 is a non-investment grade rating, and the negative
outlook reflects that we see the risks skewed to the downside,”
said  Dietmar Hornung , a Moody’s credit analyst, said in a phone
interview today. “Ireland is rightly positioned at the Ba1
rating level.”  After almost two years, Ireland returned to long-term debt
markets on July 26 by selling 4.2 billion euros ($5.2 billion)
of bonds. While the debt sale was “reassuring,” the country’s
economic outlook has deteriorated since the last rating action,
Hornung said.  “It looks like there will be no imminent re-rating of
Irish risk by Moody’s,” said Owen Callan, a Dublin-based fixed
income analyst at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , in a note.  The yield on Irish October 2020 bonds declined 4 basis
points to 6.06 percent today. The rate was at 7.11 percent on
June 28, and exceeded 14 percent about a year ago.  Growth Misses  Moody’s expects the Irish economy to grow by 0.2 percent
this year and 1.5 percent next year, according to Hornung.
Ireland’s finance ministry forecasts the economy will expand by
0.7 percent in 2012.  “Some things are improving, others are deteriorating,”
Hornung said.  “Economic growth has been below expectations.”  Standard & Poor’s  affirmed Ireland’s credit rating at BBB+
on Aug. 2, three levels above junk, saying the country is making
progress toward full  market access .  Ireland’s National Treasury Management Agency said last
month it is considering further debt swaps and short-term debt
sales as it seeks to avoid a second bailout when the country’s
current program runs out at the end of next year.  A follow-up assistance program for Ireland remains an
option for the country, according to Hornung. Ireland sought a
67.5 billion-euro international bailout in 2010.  “We understand it is an option for policymakers to seek a
follow-up program, potentially more in a precautionary sense,”
Hornung said. “For a country to re-access the market obviously
the availability of a backstop would be positive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  