-- Morgan Stanley Derivative Accord Wins Approval in First Case
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-08-07T21:58:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/morgan-stanley-derivative-accord-wins-approval-in-first-case-1-.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  won approval of a $4.8
million accord with the U.S. over claims it helped manipulate
electricity prices, in what the  Justice Department  called its
first effort to get disgorgement from a financial firm that used
derivatives to aid anticompetitive behavior.  In accepting the agreement, U.S. District Judge William Pauley in  Manhattan  turned aside complaints from a not-for-
profit organization that Morgan Stanley didn’t admit wrongdoing.
Pauley, citing the Justice Department, said the case marks the
first time the government filed an antitrust suit against a
financial firm involving derivative agreements.  “Disgorgement of $4.8 million is a relatively mild
sanction,” Pauley wrote. “But despite this court’s misgivings,
the government’s decision to settle for less than full damages
is entitled to judicial deference, particularly in view of the
novelty of the government’s theory.”  Pauley rejected objections by AARP, a not-for-profit that
advocates for people 50 and older, and from  New York ’s  Public
Service Commission . Critics of the settlement sought an
admission of wrongdoing by Morgan Stanley and said the New York-
based firm should have been required to pay the full $21.6
million it earned to settle claims it aided efforts by Brooklyn,
New York-based KeySpan Corp. to manipulate electricity prices.  Earlier Ruling  “An admission of liability is not a prerequisite for
judicial approval of an agency settlement,” Pauley said, citing
a recent ruling by a federal appeals court in a case involving
Citigroup Inc.  Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley,
declined to comment on the judge’s approval of the settlement.  “This settlement should send a message to the financial
services community that the antitrust division will vigorously
pursue anyone who engages in anticompetitive conduct in the
derivatives industry,”  Gina Talamona , a Justice Department
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail statement.  The case is U.S. v. Morgan Stanley, 11-6875, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  