-- Morgan Stanley Says Policy Changes Won’t Hurt Ethanol Demand
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-08-07T16:04:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/morgan-stanley-says-policy-changes-won-t-hurt-ethanol-demand-1-.html
Potential changes in a U.S.
government mandate for ethanol are unlikely to “materially
impact” demand for the gasoline additive made from corn, Morgan
Stanley said.  Livestock producers and some U.S. lawmakers have asked
President  Barack Obama ’s administration to cut a requirement
that refiners use ethanol, after drought spurred corn prices to
surge to a record last month. Blenders are unlikely to stop
using ethanol even if the mandate is scrapped, because the fuel
additive is trading at a discount to gasoline, Morgan Stanley
analysts including Vincent Andrews and  Hussein Allidina  wrote in
an e-mailed report today.  “Economics, not politics, drives ethanol use,” Andrews
and Allidina wrote. “Other than an outright ban on ethanol use,
we do not believe that any policy change will materially impact
ethanol demand, and therefore corn prices.”  Denatured ethanol futures are up 20 percent since mid-June
on the Chicago Board of Trade, while corn surged 59 percent as
the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  declared more than half of
the country’s counties as disaster areas because of drought.
Refiners will be required to use 13.2 billion gallons of ethanol
this year, under the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) mandate.  More than 150 U.S. lawmakers petitioned last week the
Environmental Protection Agency, which regulates the renewable-
fuels market, to limit the RFS requirement. A coalition of
livestock producers, including the  National Cattlemen’s Beef
Association  and the National Pork Producers Council, have said
the ethanol mandate is causing “severe economic harm” for
farmers.  Gas Prices  Repealing the mandate would set a “very negative precedent
for future government endeavors that required side-by-side
private sector investment,” Andrews and Allidina wrote. Job
losses and higher  gas prices  also would result from scrapping
the RFS, so the government is unlikely to act, they said.  The U.S. would still need to produce 12.9 billion gallons
of ethanol this year for the country’s gasoline supply, even if
the biofuel policy changes, Andrews and Allidina wrote.  Blenders have “significant structural impediments”
against switching away from ethanol, including industry
requirements for  octane  and oxygenates for which ethanol remains
the least expensive source. Futures prices for corn, ethanol and
gasoline also “suggest that blending will remain profitable
well into the future,” they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  