-- Toronto Condo ‘Roller Coaster’ Peaks as Flaherty Acts
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-08-07T20:52:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/toronto-condo-roller-coaster-peaks-as-flaherty-acts-mortgages.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  is making progress in his effort to cool Toronto’s
overheated condo market with tougher  mortgage  lending rules.  Condo sales dropped 10 percent in July from a year earlier
to 1,753 units and the average price fell 1 percent to C$328,216
($328,347), the city’s real estate board said Aug. 3. Prices
have fallen by 2.3 percent from a year earlier, ending annual
price gains that peaked at 11 percent in October, according to
Bloomberg calculations using Toronto Real Estate Board figures.  “We have hit the peak in the new condo market, we are on
the down side of the roller coaster,” Ben Myers, executive vice
president of Urbanation Inc., said in a phone interview. “We
will really have to see how the developers react to a little bit
of the slowing in the market, if they hold off on new
launches.”  Canada ’s biggest city is being transformed by a wave of new
condos as low  interest rates  and a stable economy draw investors
and individual buyers to downtown projects. Finance Minister
Flaherty tightened mortgage lending rules in June and criticized
“continuous building, without restriction” of condos while the
central bank says record consumer debt and the chance of a
sudden housing correction are major risks to the economy.  Record Projects  New downtown projects in Toronto include Cinema Tower by
Daniels Corp. and Pemberton Group’s  U Condominiums . There are a
record 196 condo projects with 52,695 units under construction
in Toronto, according to Urbanation, allowing investors who
dominate the market for new units to become “a little pickier
on the projects they are holding out for” Myers said.  Howard Youhanan of Condoman Realty Inc., said some
investors “will never see a return” because “the builders
overpriced the units in the first place.”  Housing research company Urbanation also reported Aug. 2
that new condo sales plunged 50 percent in the second quarter to
4,769, from a record high a year earlier while there were a
record 18,123 unsold new units.  The increase in unsold condos has been moderated by a
decline in the stockpile of low-rise units, suggesting there
isn’t a problem with oversupply according to George Carras,
president of RealNet Canada Inc., a real estate data seller. He
said the 25,930 unsold homes in the first half of the year are
close to the average since 2000, according to his company’s
figures.  Mortgage Restrictions  Mortgage restrictions and provincial rules limiting Toronto
land use may drive up prices by limiting the supply of new
condos, he said. About half of condo projects that have pre-sold
70 percent of the units haven’t begun construction, he said.  “The tightening of credit is causing a restraint around
the ability of traditionally-sold projects to move into
construction,” Carras said. “Tightening of credit could have
the exact opposite outcomes to what they might be expecting.”  The tougher lending rules are the latest in a series of
measures that have raised monthly payments for a typical first-
time homebuyer by 25 percent, said  Derek Holt , Scotiabank’s
vice-president of economics in Toronto.  “The regulatory part of the picture will be an additional
downside for housing markets to deal with for a long time yet,”
Holt said. “This is the market going through a correction that
I think is needed to hopefully avoid what would have been an
even worse outcome.”  Household Debt  The tighter mortgage rules came after Bank of Canada
Governor  Mark Carney  said that record household debts posed the
biggest domestic risk to the financial system. The ratio of
 household debt  to disposable income reached about 154 percent in
the first quarter, higher than the U.S. figure of 141 percent.  Carney has kept his  key lending rate  at 1 percent since
September 2010, the longest pause since the 1950s, and in July
cut his economic growth forecast citing global weakness and the
weakest export recovery since World War II. The central bank’s
July 18 forecast also said that housing investment will make no
contribution to economic growth in 2013 or 2014 after signs of
“overbuilding”  “You don’t even need a collapse scenario in housing
markets to keep the  Bank of Canada  on hold for some time yet,”
said Holt, who last week pushed back his forecast for a rate
increase until 2014 due to weak economic growth including
housing demand.  Industry Sentiment  The Real Property Association of Canada said Aug. 2 that an
index of industry sentiment fell to the lowest level in three
years in the third quarter because of concern about a slowing
economy. The measure, compiled by FPL Advisory Group fell to 58
from 63 in the second quarter, with readings greater than 50
still suggesting “positive trends.” The industry group says
its members own more than C$180 billion in real estate assets.  Building permits meanwhile fell 2.5 percent in June as
governments scaled back plans for new facilities in the western
part of the country,  Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa.
Economists in a Bloomberg News survey forecast a decrease of 3.9
percent. The value of permits issued by municipalities fell to
C$6.84 billion. Toronto recorded a 41 percent gain in building
permits, including non-residential.  Toronto isn’t in the middle of a condominium bubble because
record construction of new units is being matched by the demands
of the city’s growth, Royal Bank of Canada economist Robert Hogue wrote in a report last month. He said that condo prices
may fall by as much as 7 percent on a quarterly basis from their
peak because of tighter regulations, increased supply of new
units and decrease affordability. Flaherty in June lowered the
longest mortgage amortization to 25 years from 30 years and
capped debt payments at 39 percent of income.  Standard & Poor’s  cut its outlook to negative from stable
on seven Canadian banks July 27, including Toronto-based  Royal
Bank of Canada (RY)  and  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , citing a prolonged
increase in housing prices and consumer indebtedness.  ‘Policy Initiatives’  S&P, which said it might lower the ratings on Royal Bank of
Canada and Toronto-Dominion one level, said it “will continue
to consider the impact of recent government and regulatory
policy initiatives to curtail potential systemic risk arising
from the housing sector as well as assess Canada’s relative
performance vis-à-vis its global peers.” Royal Bank of Canada
and Toronto-Dominion are rated AA- by S&P, the fourth-highest
level.  Flaherty’s tightening may help the market because it
“codified what an affordable situation was,” said Jason
Mercer, senior manager of market analysis for the Toronto Real
Estate Board. Toronto homes in general still are well below the
payment limits, suggesting there is more scope for price and
sales gains, he said.  The  average  five-year mortgage rate was 5.24 percent last
week, down from a peak of 7.54 percent in December 2007 and
close to the lowest since the 1950s.  New Units  There are still signs that buyers and sellers are keen for
new units. The Ontario Place provincial park should be sold to
housing that may include condos, according to a  report  written
for the government by former Progressive Conservative leader
John Tory, while Daniel Valencia Mizrachi says he has five
clients who want to rent a condo and he can’t submit their
offers fast enough to secure them a place to live.  “All the rental condos are rented in a few days, and
normally above the asking prices. Now they are asking for one
bedroom plus den-- $1,900, which doesn’t make sense, and people
are ready to pay that,” he said. “The market will be safe for
another two or three years, no problem.”  Myers at Urbanation said one the way he will know where the
“roller coaster” is going is whether developers start cutting
prices on new units, which can rattle new homebuyers.  “That’s a sign that the market is really going south,” he
said. “I am hoping it doesn’t go all the way down to the
bottom, I hope it’s a smooth landing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban in  New York  at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  