-- Los Angeles MOCA Switches on Filling Chief Curator’s Job
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-08-08T00:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/los-angeles-s-moca-museum-decides-to-fill-curator-post-in-switch.html
The Museum of Contemporary Art in  Los
Angeles  said it will hire a new chief curator, reversing an
earlier decision to leave the post vacant following the
resignation of Paul Schimmel in June.  “In the past weeks we have witnessed considerable media
attention and criticism directed at MOCA and its leadership,
particularly at our director,” the executive committee said in
a letter to trustees. The hiring of a new chief curator “will
enable us to continue to strengthen this institution with the
resources necessary for the director to succeed.”  In 2010, the museum picked New York gallery owner Jeffrey Deitch to become its director. Deitch’s first show highlighted
the artistic career of actor  Dennis Hopper . Last year’s
exhibition of graffiti artists achieved the highest attendance
in MOCA’s history, with 201,352 visitors, and total guests
doubled to more than 400,000 for the year, the museum said.  The executive committee members, including co-chairmen
Maria Arena Bell and David G. Johnson, wrote that they “wanted
to ensure we had the necessary financial commitments in place
for a special curatorial fund to endow the position.”  Once the funding is in place, the museum will form a
committee to identify candidates, according to the letter.  Artists Quit  Tensions at the museum escalated after MOCA announced the
resignation of veteran curator Schimmel on June 29. Last month,
artist board members  John Baldessari , Barbara Kruger, Catherine Opie and  Ed Ruscha  announced they were quitting, citing
disappointment with the museum’s direction.  Museum employment, at 45 full-time workers, is one-third
what it was in 2008, after cuts in departments including
curatorial, education and fundraising. The reductions reflect
reorganization, attrition and job consolidation, according to
Lyn Winter, the museum’s communications director.  “We have an exceptional staff at MOCA, and with the
support of the board, our members and the many artists we engage
with, we are confident that MOCA is on a sound path,” Deitch
wrote in a July 23 letter on the museum’s website.  Schimmel, who has been at the museum for 22 years, earned
$259,680 with benefits during the year that ended on June 30,
2011, the most recent period for which data are available. He
was the second-highest-paid employee at the museum; Deitch
earned $649,621 during the same year.  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net  