-- Most Emerging Stocks Rise After Germany Backs ECB Plan
-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-08-07T21:17:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/most-emerging-stocks-rise-after-germany-backs-ecb-plan.html
Most emerging-market stocks rose as
speculation central banks in the U.S., Europe and China will
boost efforts to lift growth outweighed concern that a global
slump will damp earnings.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  was little changed at
967.85 in New York as 393 stocks advanced and 373 declined.
Gauges in India, Russia and China rose and  China Rongsheng Heavy
Industries Group Holdings Ltd. (1101) , the country’s biggest
shipbuilder outside state control, surged the most in nine
months in Hong Kong. Brazil’s Bovespa stock index fell for the
first time in three days, led by steelmaker Usinas Siderurgicas
de Minas Gerais SA and homebuilder Rossi Residencial SA.  Federal  Reserve Bank  of Boston President  Eric Rosengren 
said on CNBC that the central bank should pursue an “open-
ended” easing program of “substantial magnitude” to boost
growth and hiring. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  backed a
bond-buying plan announced last week by the ECB, a spokesman
said yesterday. Earnings announcements by companies in the
developing-nations gauge so far this quarter have surpassed
analyst estimates by an average 20 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Investors look for reasons to buy, and when there’s a
signal something may happen, they are buying into risky asset
classes,”  Michael Ganske , head of  emerging-markets  research at
Commerzbank in London, said by phone. “There also seems to be a
push in Germany to be more cooperative with the ECB.”  EM ETF Gains  The IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, climbed 0.3
percent to $40.29, the highest since May 10. The Chicago Board
Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a
measure of options prices on the fund and expectations of price
swings, dropped 1.2 percent to 24.29.  Without new stimulus, the U.S. jobless rate would rise to
8.4 percent at the end of this year and economic growth wouldn’t
exceed its 1.75 percent average in the first half of the year,
Rosengren said today in a CNBC interview. The German government
is “not worried” by European Central Bank President  Mario
Draghi ’s proposals on bond buying to help bring down borrowing
costs in Spain and Italy, a spokesman said yesterday.  German factory orders declined more than twice as much as
economists forecast in June as sales to euro-area countries
slumped, according to data from the  Economy Ministry  and a
Bloomberg survey. The 21 nations in the MSCI emerging market
gauge send about 30 percent of their exports to the European
Union on average, data compiled by the World Trade Organization
show.  Petrobras, Vale  The People’s Bank of China has cut  interest rates  twice
since early June and lowered lenders’ reserve requirements as
policy makers in the world’s second-largest economy seek to
bolster growth that has slowed to a three-year low.  The Bovespa fell 1.1 percent and Usiminas, as Usinas
Siderurgicas is known, fell for the first time in three days,
tumbling 8.5 percent. Rossi Residencial SA lost 7 percent.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises  Index (VXEEM)  of Chinese stocks
listed in Hong Kong climbed 0.4 percent, to its highest close in
10 weeks. The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  added 1.1 percent to a
one-month high as Tata Motors Ltd. jumped 4.3 percent.  China Rongsheng, which earned about 64 percent of its 2011
revenue from overseas, jumped 11 percent, its second day of
gains after four consecutive weeks of decline.  “China Rongsheng as well as other companies in the
shipping sector are benefiting from the improved sentiment that
the European debt crisis may be eased,” Lawrence Li, an analyst
at UOB-Kay Hian Holdings Ltd, said by phone today. “Given that
Rongsheng shares have slumped so much over the past month, some
investors may view this as a buy-in opportunity.”  HTC, NHN Decline  HTC Corp. (2498)  , Asia’s second-biggest smartphone maker, dropped
7 percent, the most in a month, after it forecast third-quarter
revenue of as much as NT$80 billion ($2.67 billion), less than
analyst estimates of NT$87 billion.  NHN Corp. (035420) , South Korea’s largest Internet search-engine
operator, fell 3.5 percent in Seoul after Mirae Asset Securities
said the company’s second-quarter earnings may fall short of
market expectations.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell 8 basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 314 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  