-- Loughner Pleads Guilty in Rampage, Avoids Death Sentence
-- B y   A . J .   F l i c k   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-08-08T05:10:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/loughner-pleads-guilty-after-being-found-competent.html
Jared Lee Loughner pleaded guilty to
killing six people and trying to assassinate U.S. Representative
 Gabrielle Giffords  after federal prosecutors agreed they
wouldn’t seek the death penalty.  Loughner, 23, will face life in prison without parole under
the plea deal. The former community college student pleaded
guilty yesterday before U.S. District Judge Larry Burns in
Tucson, Arizona, to 19 counts of murder, attempted murder and
other charges related to the Jan. 8, 2011, shooting. Loughner
had previously pleaded not guilty.  “I plead guilty,” Loughner said as Burns read each charge
against him in court. His parents, sitting three rows behind
their son in court, bowed their heads as he spoke.  Loughner’s guilty plea came as lawyers prepare their
defense of James Holmes, the former neuroscience graduate
student at the  University of Colorado  in Denver charged with
killing 12 and injuring 58 at a theater in the suburb of Aurora
during a July 20 midnight showing of “The Dark Knight Rises.”
On Aug. 5, a man identified as Wade Michael Page killed six
people in a Sikh temple near  Milwaukee  before police shot him
dead. Page was a former U.S. Army serviceman and a member of
several white-supremacist rock bands.  About 30 victims, survivors and their representatives in
the courtroom watched as Loughner changed his plea. Ron Barber,
an aide to Gifford wounded in the shooting and now holding
Gifford’s seat, cradled his wife after Loughner pleaded guilty
to shooting him.  Survivor Families  “In making the determination not to seek the death
penalty, I took into consideration the views of the victims and
survivor families, the recommendations of the prosecutors
assigned to the case, and the applicable law,” U.S. Attorney
General Eric Holder said in an e-mailed statement.  It was “clear” Loughner was mentally ill and not
diagnosed before the shootings, John Leonardo, the U.S. Attorney
for  Arizona , said after the hearing. The decision not to seek
the death penalty was a “certain and just resolution to the
case,” he said.  Burns set Nov. 15 for Loughner’s sentencing. Pima County
prosecutor Barbara LaWall said in February that state charges
would be brought against Loughner after the federal case ended.
A call to her media office yesterday seeking comment on the
state’s case wasn’t immediately returned.  Giffords, an Arizona Democrat, was among 13 wounded in the
shooting rampage outside a supermarket where she was holding a
community meeting. Bystanders wrestled Loughner to the ground.
Giffords survived a gunshot wound through her head. She resigned
Jan. 25 to focus on her recovery. A 9-year-old girl and a
federal judge were among those killed in the shooting.  Prison Psychologist  Loughner understands that he will never leave prison,
Christina Pietz, a Bureau of Prisons psychologist who has
treated him, said during yesterday’s hearing.  Burns had previously determined that Loughner wasn’t
competent to stand trial and had ordered him to remain in U.S.
custody for treatment or until doctors determined he was
mentally able to help in his defense.  Loughner had been medicated with anti-psychotic drugs and
confined to a federal prison hospital in Springfield,  Missouri .
The drugging was approved by Burns, over objections of
Loughner’s lawyer, on grounds that Loughner was a danger to
others.  Pietz testified that as time went on and Loughner took
prescribed medication voluntarily, the weight of the shooting
dawned on him. “I did especially cry about the child,”
Loughner told Pietz once, referring to 9-year-old victim
Christina Green.  Before Loughner entered his guilty plea, Burns determined
that he was mentally competent to do so.  The case is U.S. v. Loughner, 11-187, U.S. District Court,
District of Arizona (Tucson).  To contact the reporters on this story:
A.J. Flick in Tucson, Arizona, at  ajflick@hotmail.com ;
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  