-- Loughner to Appear in Court for Competency, Plea Change
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   A . J .   F l i c k
-- 2012-08-07T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/loughner-to-appear-in-court-for-competency-plea-change-hearing.html
Jared Lee Loughner, charged with
killing six people and trying to assassinate U.S. Representative
 Gabrielle Giffords  last year, will appear before a federal judge
in Tucson, Arizona, today for a hearing on whether he’s mentally
fit for court and can change his plea.  The former community college student previously pleaded
not guilty to charges of murder and attempted murder related 
to the Jan. 8, 2011, shooting.  “If the court finds the defendant competent, his counsel
has requested a follow-on change of plea hearing,” U.S.
District Judge Larry Burns said yesterday in an order.
“Accordingly, assuming the court finds the defendant competent,
it will also consider whether to accept the defendant’s
proffered pleas.”  The Los Angeles Times, citing unidentified sources, 
reported Aug. 4. that Loughner will plead guilty at the 
hearing. Psychiatric experts who have examined the 23-year-old 
are expected to testify that he comprehends what happened, the 
paper said.  Giffords, an  Arizona  Democrat, was among 13 wounded in the
shooting rampage outside a supermarket where she was holding a
community meeting. Bystanders wrestled the suspect to the
ground. Giffords survived a gunshot wound through her head. She
resigned Jan. 25 to focus on her recovery. A 9-year-old girl 
and a federal judge were among those killed in the shooting.  Burns ruled that Loughner wasn’t competent to stand trial 
and ordered him to remain in U.S. custody for treatment or until 
doctors determine he is mentally competent to help in his 
defense.  Loughner has been involuntarily medicated with anti-
psychotic drugs and confined to a federal prison hospital in
Springfield,  Missouri . The forced drugging was approved by
Burns, over objections of Loughner’s lawyer, on grounds that
Loughner was a danger to others.  The case is U.S. v. Loughner, 11-187, U.S. District Court,
District of Arizona (Tucson).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net 
Pamela MacLean in San Francisco at  pmaclean@pacbell.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  