-- How to Play a Real Estate Recovery
-- B y   B e n   S t e v e r m a n
-- 2012-08-07T20:44:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/how-to-play-the-real-estate-recovery.html
     For investors, the real estate roller coaster ride
continues. They made billions -- probably trillions if you add
it all up -- flipping houses, leasing offices and constructing
condo towers. Then the real estate market collapsed, throwing
the U.S. into the 2007-2009 recession.  Now the prognosis for real estate investments is looking
much better, though it's anything but simple. Some commercial
real estate has rebounded, with investors craving income that
real estate provides, while residential real estate --
particularly single-family homes -- may be at
once-in-a-lifetime bargain prices.  Bloomberg.com asked four top experts for their take on
the the opportunities and potential pitfalls facing real
estate investors in the coming years. Edited excerpts of their
interviews follow:  Jim Sullivan, managing director of REIT research, Green
Street Advisors  Every diversified investor should have some exposure to
commercial real estate, and REITs [real estate investment
trusts] provide a terrific, transparent and liquid way to get
that exposure. Operating fundamentals in most property types
range from good to great, with good being the shopping center
business and industrial business and great being the apartment
business. The economy is not doing great, but the silver
lining for commercial real estate is how little new supply is
coming on the market. Too much new construction is typically
what puts a halt to real estate recoveries. This time
around, it's just not an issue.  REITs tend to be specialized by property type. You can
pick and choose, depending on what your economic outlook might
be. If your forecast is a little rosier, you'd want to be in
property types that respond well in economic recoveries --
hotels, for example, or REITs that own shopping centers with
lots of small tenants. If you wanted to be a bit more
defensive, health care REITs are a terrific place to be.  The question of whether REITs are cheap or not depends on
what you compare them to. If you're thinking about selling
bonds and buying REITs, that looks like a good trade. If
you're thinking of selling some of your S&P 500 [stock funds]
to buy REITs, that's a trade that doesn't look as good today
as it might have a year ago. I have to throw out a warning
that there's a whole world of REITs called "non-traded REITs."
Unlike publicly traded REITs, the valuations are hard to
discern and there are a ton of fees for individual investors.  John Burns, chairman and president, John Burns Real
Estate Consulting  The biggest opportunity is buying distressed
single-family homes, because that market has been completely
beat up. The next biggest opportunity is buying land because
very few people have been focused on it. If you have a
long-term view, you'll probably see a significant multiple
return. Buying land is a complicated business, though.
Mom-and-pop investors should not be buying land.  Investing in apartments has gotten very expensive in
gateway cities like New York, San Francisco, Los Angeles and
San Diego. I'm not going to say those are bad investments, but
you're paying a premium to get in those markets. There are
opportunities for B- and C-class properties in the non-gateway
cities like Phoenix, Dallas, Houston and Chicago. Renters are
in for a rude awakening over the next three years. They're
going to get significant rent hikes, which is going to cause
far more of them to start looking at home ownership.  Lauren Pressman, director of investment research at
wealth management firm Aspiriant  The U.S. is in a period of sustained but very slow
growth. Job reports are huge factors for real estate, because
jobs create demand for housing, for offices, for travel and at
retail establishments. We're wary of things like retail and
office, except in very unique circumstances. Multifamily real
estate (apartment buildings) arguably had all the tail winds
at its back to do the best of all asset classes. However, be
careful. There is so much capital chasing multifamily, and
that can lift prices beyond a point where your return is
commensurate with risk.  Our overriding philosophy now is to look for
opportunities that don't require a strong recovery to make
money. So, for example: debt. Instead of bidding on apartment
buildings, funds will provide debt for a new apartment owner.
They can provide it at fairly high interest rates because debt
is very hard to come by these days.  We're very cautious. You need to choose the right asset
with the right manager with the right business plan. If you go
and buy something because you think rents are going to go back
to 2007 levels, that's not a good strategy.  Jack Chandler, global head of real estate, BlackRock  We're very focused on cities we think are going to
compete for jobs. As opposed to 2000 to 2006, when there was
job growth everywhere, it's much trickier. There is going to
be a much bigger spread between the performance of winners and
the losers. So the New York, San Francisco, Washington markets
are pretty fully priced. Secondary assets in secondary
locations -- especially in areas that have not seen job growth
resume -- have seen a very small amount of interest from the
capital markets.  We like mezzanine debt [a form of debt that is riskier
and thus pays higher interest rates than more senior, secured
forms of debt]. In debt, as they always say, your upside is
you get your money back. If you think equity is going to earn
6 to 9 percent over the next three to five years, and debt's
earning 7 to 12 percent (while the debt has a more senior part
in the capital structure), that's a compelling risk
proposition. You give up the potential upside for the extra
yield.
 