-- Padres to Be Sold to Beer Distributor Fowler, O’Malley Kin
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-08-07T20:32:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/padres-owner-agrees-to-sell-team-for-800-million-mlb-com-says.html
John Moores agreed to sell the  San
Diego Padres  to a group headed by California beer distributor
owner Ron Fowler and including golfer  Phil Mickelson  and the
family of former  Los Angeles  Dodgers owner  Peter O’Malley .  Sarah Farnsworth, senior vice president of public affairs
for the Padres, confirmed that an agreement has been reached
while declining to reveal details.  The $800 million price includes the team’s 21 percent stake
in Fox Sports San Diego, according to a person with direct
knowledge of the transaction. The person requested anonymity
because the sale won’t be complete until approved by Major
League Baseball owners.  That vote might come at the owners’ Aug. 16 meeting in
Denver, with 75 percent approval needed from the other 29 club
representatives.  “The team will have no formal statement or news conference
until after MLB votes on it,” Farnsworth said in a telephone
interview. MLB.com reported the agreement and the price earlier.  Mickelson, 42, will have a minority stake in the team and
said he will leave the business operations to others.  “The O’Malley and Seidler family have been involved in
baseball for decades,” Mickelson said in an interview today at
the Ocean Course in Kiawah Island, South Carolina, where the  PGA
Championship  starts Aug. 9. “They know what they’re doing. I
don’t want to interrupt or get in the way.”  Padres’ Woes  Fowler would get a team that hasn’t won a  World Series 
championship since joining the National League in 1969. The
Padres appeared in the World Series in 1984 and 1998, losing
each time. The team last reached the playoffs in 2006 and this
year is in fourth place in the five-team NL West. Petco Park,
the team’s home ballpark, opened in 2004.  Fowler, the chairman of closely held Liquid Investments
Inc., a Del Mar, California-based beer distributor, would
represent the Padres at league meetings, MLB.com said.  O’Malley’s son Kevin and nephew Tom Seidler are also part
of the ownership group, which includes Mickelson, a  San Diego 
native. The O’Malleys brought baseball to the West Coast when 
they moved the Dodgers to Los Angeles from Brooklyn, New York, in 1958.  “This brings a long baseball blood line to San Diego,”
Moores told MLB.com. “I couldn’t be more pleased. I feel like
I’m handing over the club to the right people.”  Failed Bid  Fowler had been part of a group led by Jeff Moorad, whose
agreement to buy the Padres for $525 million failed.  The price of the team escalated after the Padres signed a
$1.2 billion television contract with Fox, MLB.com said. The
Padres are the first big-league team sold since the Dodgers
commanded a record $2.1 billion in a bankruptcy auction in
March.  The Dodgers were bought by a group that includes basketball
Hall of Fame player  Magic Johnson  and Guggenheim Partners
executive  Mark Walter . Prior to the Dodgers, the record amount
for a baseball team was the $845 million that  Joe Ricketts ,
founder of  TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD) , paid the Tribune Co.
three years ago for the Chicago Cubs and Wrigley Field.  Moores paid $94 million for the team in 1994, according to
Forbes magazine. The $800 million price is about 8 1/2 times
that.  “There’s no question that the market lifted in the last
year,” Moores told MLB.com. “I don’t think I will have any
problems with the sale this time around. This one is so solid. I
don’t foresee any outstanding issues.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  