-- Peregrine Judge Grants Trustee Request to Subpoena Banks
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-08-07T16:56:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/peregrine-judge-grants-trustee-request-to-subpoena-banks.html
Peregrine Financial Group Inc.’s
bankruptcy trustee obtained court approval to issue information
subpoenas to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Goldman Sachs & Co. and eight
other financial firms.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Carol A. Doyle granted Trustee Ira Bodenstein’s request after hearing arguments at the federal
courthouse in Chicago.  Bodenstein’s lawyer, Robert Fishman, told Doyle those
financial firms were the “principal institutions” with which
Peregrine and its subsidiaries did business.  The commodities broker filed for Chapter 7 liquidation on
July 10, hours after the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission sued the Cedar Falls, Iowa-based firm and founder
Russell Wasendorf Sr., alleging they had misappropriated more
than $200 million in client money.  A day earlier, the National Futures Association -- an
industry self regulator -- had announced the firm had about $5
million on deposit at U.S. Bank NA, when it had reported $225
million on June 29.  Peregrine has more than $500 million in assets and more
than $100 million in liabilities according to its bankruptcy
petition.  The trustee is seeking details from that  US Bancorp (USB)  unit as
well as JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs and the other
institutions, including documents relating to Peregrine’s open
and closed accounts, wire transfer details, canceled checks and
correspondence.  While a JPMorgan attorney raised objections to service of
that document upon bank Chairman  Jamie Dimon , Fishman told Doyle
the parties had agreed that delivery of the subpoena to a bank
lawyer would suffice.  Outside the courtroom, Fishman said there was no plan to
seek testimony from Dimon.  The bankruptcy case is Peregrine Financial Group Inc.,
12-27488,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of  Illinois 
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  