-- Perry’s Sportscaster Gets Friends; Monkey Doesn’t: Review
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-08-07T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/perry-s-sportscaster-gets-friends-monkey-doesn-t-review.html
“I’m back and better than ever,”
announces  Matthew Perry , in character as a recent widower in
deep denial on NBC’s new sitcom “ Go On .”  No one could blame the network for welcoming its old
“ Friends ” star back to the fold. Or for sneaking a preview of
it into the middle of its coverage of the Olympics.  But better than ever?  Not so fast.  Perry plays Ryan King, a big-shot sports radio host
returning to work only a month after his wife’s untimely death.  He copes by quipping, as when he describes the lost love of
his life: “Completed me. Doesn’t come around much anymore.”  Ordered by his boss to undergo grief counseling, King
begrudgingly attends “Transitions,” a New Agey support group
filled with loveable oddballs dealing with “life changes.”  There’s a sharp-tongued lesbian (the standout Julie White)
who has lost her life partner; a creepy lech (Brett Gelman) and
a crotchety old man with diabetes (Bill Cobbs), among others.  The beautiful therapist (Laura Benanti) spouts the kind of
platitudes King hates (“It’s a safe space”), but romantic
sparks seem inevitable.  ‘March Sadness’  By the end of the first episode, the initially disdainful
King has bonded with the gang. He organizes, cuckoo’s nest-
style, a “March Sadness” tournament to decide who has the best
sob story.  If that dynamic sounds familiar, you’ve probably seen NBC’s
“ Community ,” in which Joel McHale’s smug, disgraced attorney
character is forced to attend community college classes.  “Go On” borrows both the formula and the feel-good
quirkiness that has built “Community” a modest, weirdly
devoted following.  “Community” standards require a group-hug sentimentality,
and “Go On” wastes little time arriving at that breakthrough.  The new show, created by “Friends” producer Scott
Silveri, has sufficient ambition (and the solid performances) to
justify another look next month.  Now if only Lisa Kudrow’s acerbic shrink from Showtime’s
terrific “ Web Therapy ” would prescribe some bite.  “Go On,” airs on NBC Wednesday following Olympics
coverage; returns September 11 at 9 p.m. New York time.
Rating: **1/2  ‘Animal Practice’  Justin Kirk  (“ Weeds ”) costars with a monkey in scrubs on
“ Animal Practice ,” NBC’s fall sitcom and early favorite for
worst concept.  Like “Go On,” “Animal Practice” is getting a sneak
preview during Olympics coverage this month.  Kirk, snarling, plays Dr. George Coleman, a brilliant,
misanthropic veterinarian at a  New York  City animal hospital.
It’s “ House ” with critters, including Dr. Rizzo, the
hospital’s cute monkey mascot.  Some shows rise above their spotty concepts. “Animal
Practice,” at least in its pilot episode, does not.  Romance, or its potential, arrives when Coleman’s ex-
girlfriend, Dorothy (JoAnna Garcia Swisher) inherits what looks
to be an absurdly large animal hospital.  “I’m not going to sit around and let you turn my
grandmother’s legacy into a zoo!” she snaps, angered by the
doc’s unorthodox, belligerent style.  Cue Dr. Rizzo, who rides down the hall on a toy ambulance.  “Animal Practice” airs August 12 on NBC following the
Olympics closing ceremonies and returns Sept. 26 at 8 p.m. New
York time. Rating: *1/2  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Hephzibah Anderson  on books and
 Craig Seligman  on travel.  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 