-- Pfizer Agrees to Settle Foreign Bribery Case With U.S.
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-08-07T20:10:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/pfizer-agrees-to-settle-foreign-bribery-case-with-u-s-.html
Pfizer Inc., the world’s biggest
drugmaker, agreed to pay $60.2 million to settle foreign bribery
cases it brought to U.S. authorities involving alleged payments
paid by employees and agents of subsidiaries.  Pfizer entered into two agreements with the Securities and
Exchange Commission and the New York-based drugmaker reached a
deferred prosecution accord with the  Department of Justice ,
according to filings today in federal court in  Washington .  U.S. law enforcement authorities have been probing
drugmakers including Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd,
 AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ,  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  and  GlaxoSmithKline
Plc (GSK)  for possibly breaking an overseas anti-bribery law that bars
employees or their agents from paying bribes to foreign
government officials to obtain or retain business. Today’s
settlements stem from payments and gifts Pfizer said its foreign
units made to government-employed doctors and workers in eastern
Europe, China and the  Middle East , according to the filings.  “These improper payments were variously made to influence
regulatory and formulary approvals, purchase decisions,
prescription decisions, and to clear customs,” according to a
complaint filed by the SEC.  Inaccurate Books  The SEC said the payoffs were made “without the knowledge
or approval of officers or employees of Pfizer, but the
inaccurate books and records of Pfizer subsidiaries were
consolidated in the financial reports of Pfizer.”  Pfizer alerted U.S. authorities in 2004 after probing the
claims. More payments were found when the drugmaker bought its
Wyeth unit in 2009.  “The actions which led to this resolution were
disappointing, but the openness and speed with which Pfizer
voluntarily disclosed and addressed them reflects our true
culture and the real value we place on integrity and meeting
commitments,” Amy Schulman, Pfizer’s general counsel, said in
an e-mailed statement. “We expect every colleague across Pfizer
to adhere to the highest standards of conduct.”  Pfizer  shares  fell 2.1 percent to $23.74 at the close of
 New York  trading.  The  Justice Department  charged the Pfizer HCP Corp. unit
with two criminal counts, conspiracy to violate the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act and a violation of the FCPA’s anti-bribery
provisions. Prosecutors agreed to defer prosecution and drop the
charges after two years if Pfizer continues to cooperate and
take remedial steps. The settlements must be approved by a
federal judge.  Criminal Fine  Prosecutors agreed to a criminal fine of $15 million, a 34
percent reduction, because of the company’s “extraordinary
cooperation” after voluntarily disclosing the payments, and its
“extraordinary and ongoing remediation.”  Pfizer disclosed in regulatory filings last year that it
had reached agreements in principle with the Justice Department
and the SEC “to resolve matters concerning potentially improper
payments” made by the company outside the U.S., without
specifically citing the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  Pfizer has been voluntarily cooperating with government
investigators since 2004, the company said. Governments in other
countries also are investigating potentially improper payments,
Pfizer said in the filings.  Eight Countries  The settlements announced today include Pfizer operations
in eight countries:  Bulgaria ,  Croatia , Kazakhstan,  Russia ,
Italy,  China , the Czech Republic and Serbia. The Wyeth
settlement, over its nutrition business, was for China,
 Indonesia , Saudi Arabia and  Pakistan .  Pfizer agreed for two years to submit reports to the SEC on
the company’s anticorruption efforts and the status of
implementing compliance measures, according to court filings.
The company won’t be subject to direct monitoring by the Justice
Department of the SEC, though.  Wyeth agreed to settle without admitting or denying the
bribery allegations, according to a court filing by Wyeth vice
president, Bradley Lerman.  In Bulgaria, local representatives spent $28,000 to invite
government doctors on “incentive trips” to Greece, as a reward
for the physicians who were the biggest prescribers of Pfizer’s
products, Pfizer admitted according to the Justice Department
filing. They also paid $17,000 to send doctors to medical
conferences, again in exchange for commitments to prescribe
Pfizer drugs.  Croatian Doctor  In Croatia, the unit there had used a consulting agreement
with a government doctor to help influence which drugs were
allowed to be sold in the country, paying the physician in cash
and travel expenses, Pfizer admitted.  Pfizer also admitted to what was called the “hospital
program,” in Russia, where doctors were given a 5 percent kick-
back on certain drugs prescribed.  “Pfizer Russia used the Hospital Program to make cash
payments to individual government healthcare professionals to
corruptly reward past purchases and prescriptions of Pfizer
products, and to corruptly induce future purchases and
prescriptions,” the Justice Department said in the filing.
Pfizer’s Russian unit also used intermediary companies to pay
off doctors and government officials, the company admitted.  Illegal Payments  The 1977 Foreign Corrupt Practices Act makes payments to
foreign officials to win business illegal. It was created after
a SEC investigation in the 1970s found that 400 U.S. companies
had paid $300 million in bribes abroad, according to the Justice
Department.  Bristol-Myers, based in New York, said April 26 it received
a subpoena in March from the SEC and the company is cooperating.  Glaxo said in its 2010 and 2011 annual reports that the SEC
and the Justice Department were conducting an industry-wide
investigation into whether drug companies bribed officials in
Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, Germany, Italy, Poland, Russia
and Saudi Arabia.  Glaxo is among the companies that received inquiries, and
it is cooperating, the London-based company said. Stephen Rea, a
spokesman, said Aug. 6 the company had nothing to add. “We
continue to cooperate with the ongoing investigation,” he said
by e-mail.  AstraZeneca received inquiries from the SEC and the Justice
Department, according to the London-based company in its 2010
and 2011 annual reports. The company also “is investigating
indications of inappropriate conduct in certain countries,
including China,” according to the 2011 report. The
investigations are continuing and the company is cooperating,
 Sarah Lindgreen , an AstraZeneca spokeswoman, said by e-mail on
Aug. 6.  Medical Devices  Manufacturers of medical devices also have reported getting
requests in the past year for information from U.S. prosecutors
and regulators on compliance with the act in Europe and  South
America . The law bars corporate employees or their agents from
paying bribes to government officials to obtain or retain
business.  Olympus Corp., the world’s largest maker of endoscopes,
said Aug. 1 it had uncovered “irregularities” at a doctor-
training program in Brazil that may have violated the U.S. law.
 Smith & Nephew Plc (SN/) , Europe’s biggest maker of artificial hips
and knees, agreed in February to pay $22.2 million to settle
U.S. allegations that it paid bribes to doctors employed by
government hospitals or agencies in Greece.  J&J Agreement  In April 2011,  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s biggest
health-products maker, agreed to pay $70 million after admitting
that the company bribed doctors in Europe and paid kickbacks in
Iraq to win contracts and sell drugs and artificial joints.  In March, Biomet Inc., a closely held maker of medical
devices, agreed to pay $22.9 million to settle U.S. accusations
it bribed foreign doctors to win business.  The Justice Department and SEC are investigating
allegations that Wal-Mart Stores Inc. approved as much as $24
million in bribes in Mexico. Wal-Mart disclosed the payments to
the Justice Department and the SEC, according to a December 2011
regulatory filing.  The Pfizer cases are U.S. Securities of Exchange Commission
v.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , 12-cv-01303; U.S. Securities of Exchange
Commission v. Wyeth LLC, 12-cv-1304; and U.S. v. Pfizer HCP
Corp., 12-cr-00169, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in New York
at   darmstrong17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  