-- Political Stress May Curtail Risk-Asset Rally, El-Erian Says
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H a y s
-- 2012-08-07T18:23:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/political-stress-may-curtail-risk-asset-rally-el-erian-says.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
Mohamed El-Erian said investors who took advantage of the rally
in risk markets should reduce their exposure in favor of safer
assets amid domestic economic weakness and global political
stresses.  “This is an unusually uncertain time,” El-Erian, the
chief executive officer of the world’s largest manager of bond
funds, said on Bloomberg Radio’s “Hays Advantage” with
 Kathleen Hays . “It’s not just  Europe . Let’s not forget there is
a fiscal cliff in the U.S. Let’s not forget geopolitics is
heating up in  Iran  again.”  Treasury yields remain close to lowest ever amid a slowing
economy, global financial turmoil and U.S. unemployment above 8
percent for more than three years. The year-end “fiscal cliff”
of higher taxes and reductions in spending on defense and other
government programs that will take effect unless Congress acts
also clouds the economic outlook, he said.  Investors have to retain the ability to invest with “a
high level of agility,” El-Erian said, reflecting the so-called
new normal, Pimco’s view that the global economy has entered a
period of slow growth and historically lower investment returns.  Pimco began offering equity funds to investors in April
2010. The firm moved into stocks to allow customers to diversify
their holdings and as areas such as  emerging markets  started to
outperform developed regions.  Europe Plans  Poorly designed rescue plans for Europe have been
ineffective at stemming outflows of capital from troubled
European sovereign countries as concern European leaders are
failing to make progress toward resolving the region’s financial
crisis, El-Erian said.  Benchmark Treasury 10-year note yields  sank  to a record low
1.379 percent on July 25 amid concern the  European debt crisis 
was slowing the global economy while the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index has risen 11.8 percent this year. Riskier assets are
poised to fall out of favor amid the burden of the European debt
crisis, El-Erian said.  “Ultimately, the test is, do you attract private capital
back into these countries,” El-Erian said. “You have to go
from private capital exiting to private capital being crowded
in, and that only comes with a credible program, political
support and significant official financing.”  Pimco’s $263 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  gained 7.55 percent
during the past year, beating 87 percent of its peers, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The fund gained 1.01 percent in
the past month, beating 76 percent of its peers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  