-- Popeyes Chicken Chases Suburbs as KFC Focuses Overseas
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-08-07T16:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/popeyes-chicken-chases-suburbs-as-kfc-focuses-overseas.html
Look out KFC. Here comes Popeyes
Louisiana Kitchen.  Led by former KFC executive Cheryl Bachelder, the chicken-
and-biscuits chain is going national and ramping up the pressure
as  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM)  focuses overseas, letting its U.S. KFC
operations languish in the process.  Long a regional outfit concentrating on the urban market,
Popeyes is courting suburban white diners with a new menu and
ads. Bachelder plans to double the number of U.S. Popeyes stores
to 3,200. KFC has about 4,780 U.S. locations, about 600 fewer
than in 2006.  “We’ve really reached the hearts and minds of a much
broader customer base,” Bachelder said in an interview in her
office at Popeyes’s Atlanta headquarters. While 40 percent of
the chain’s customers are black, that’s changing as Popeyes
opens eateries in places such as Sparks,  Nevada , where about
three-quarters of residents are white.  Popeyes, which is owned by  AFC Enterprises Inc. (AFCE) , will
generate sales growth of about 13 percent this year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. By contrast, U.S. fast-food
restaurant sales will grow 1.9 percent overall this year to $170
billion, researcher IBISWorld Inc. said in a report last month.
KFC’s U.S. same-store sales rose 1 percent in its most recent
quarter, while Popeyes’s increased 8.1 percent.  “We feel good about our strategy going forward,” Virginia
Ferguson, a Yum spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “We’re focused
on delivering the world’s best chicken to our customers.”  Shares Surge  Shares of AFC surged 52 percent over the past 12 months,
compared with 14 percent for the Bloomberg U.S. Quick-Service
Restaurant Index and 33 percent for Yum.  Still, Popeyes has its “work cut out to suburbanize,” Bob
Goldin, executive vice president at Chicago-based researcher
Technomic Inc., said in an interview. ’Burb dwellers are more
likely to frequent the likes of  Panera Bread Co. (PNRA) , he said.  Twenty years after Col. Harland Sanders founded KFC in
1952, Alvin Copeland opened his first fried-chicken restaurant.
The Popeyes name isn’t a tribute to the spinach-scarfing
cartoon; Copeland named it after Gene Hackman’s character, Jimmy
“Popeye” Doyle, in the 1971 film “The French Connection.”
The chain’s chicken caught on after Copeland spiced up his
recipe and by 1985 there were about 500 Popeyes locations. AFC,
then called America’s Favorite Chicken, became the parent of
Popeyes in 1992 and went public in 2001.  Learning Restaurants  Bachelder, 56, got her start at  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  before
managing the LifeSavers and Planters nuts brands at Nabisco,
where Louis Gerstner mentored her. In the mid-1990s, Bachelder
helped turn around sales at Domino’s Pizza Inc.with flavored
crusts and insulated delivery bags. After rebuffing an offer to
work at Yum’s Pizza Hut chain, in 2001 she became chief concept
officer at KFC, where she learned how to run restaurants and
deal with struggling franchisees.  Bachelder said she became disenchanted with KFC’s
relentless focus on quarterly  results  and left in 2003.  “It just wasn’t a patient, long-view environment,” she
said of KFC. “It wasn’t right for me.”  Four years later, she signed on as chief executive officer
of AFC. Bachelder was throwing in with a company where profits
had stagnated and relations with franchisees were less than
felicitous, according to AFC Chairman John Cranor.  “You had a culture that was contentious at best and
frankly there were no clear-cut visions for the future,” Cranor
said in a telephone interview. “That was sort of like serving
up a feast to Cheryl.”  National Ads  Bachelder’s first task: getting on the good side of store
owners. She distributed headsets and timers to restaurants,
cutting the average location’s drive-through time by 40 percent
to 180 seconds. She insisted on national ads, more effective
than local TV because they reach more people, and convinced the
board corporate should chip in on the advertisement fund.  She also hired another former Yum executive, Ralph Bower to
lead the U.S. business. Bower, who also used to work at Domino’s
and KFC, scores and ranks every store each quarter and helps the
305 U.S. franchisees track costs weekly. Bower said he regularly
has hour-long phone conversations with franchisees, who own 98
percent of domestic locations.  In 2008, Bachelder and her team rebranded the chain,
ditching the Popeyes Chicken & Biscuits name for Popeyes
Louisiana Kitchen and replacing the cartoonish red, yellow and
blue logo with an orange “P” set in a ring adorned with a pair
of matching fleur de lis.  Healthier Menu  Last year, Popeyes introduced a healthier menu, Louisiana
Leaux, with so-called naked chicken wraps and a BBQ chicken po
boy sandwich. Still, the chain continues to sell the fare that
made it famous: bone-in fried chicken, chicken tenders and
shrimp. With U.S. economic growth weak and  consumer confidence 
in July at the lowest level this year, Bachelder is keeping the
food affordable, selling combos for $3.99 and $4.99. KFC,
meanwhile, is advertising a $19.99 family meal.  The biggest threat for the company is if Bachelder or other
leaders were to leave, said Sam Yake, an analyst at BGB
Securities Inc. in McLean, Virginia. “Losing their talented
executives would be by far the biggest risk,” he said.  Bachelder, who reads one self-improvement or business book
a week and started a library at company headquarters, is working
on what she calls developing servant leaders to manage Popeyes
when she’s gone.  “That’s where I’ve shifted a ton of my energy,” said
Bachelder, who last month met with 14 vice presidents to discuss
their careers. “I want them to have everything in place to
continue the success.”  Still, she betrays no signs she’s looking for a new gig,
saying, “it’s going to take me quite a while to get that
done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  