-- Priceline, Orbitz Drop as Forecasts Miss on Europe Crisis
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-08-08T20:04:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/priceline-forecast-misses-estimates-amid-european-credit-crisis.html
Priceline.com Inc. (PCLN) , the biggest U.S.
online travel agency by market value, and smaller rival  Orbitz
Worldwide Inc. (OWW)  plunged after quarterly sales forecasts missed
estimates as turmoil in Europe curtailed trip reservations.  Priceline tumbled 17 percent to $562.32 at the close in  New
York , for the biggest decline since 2003. Orbitz declined 25
percent to $3.47, the largest drop since March 2009.  Consumers in Europe -- one of the main engines of growth
for Priceline and Orbitz -- put off travel amid an economic
crisis there. Priceline had been boosting sales in the region
after the 2005 acquisition of Amsterdam-based Booking.com.
Results were also dragged down as the strength of the  U.S.
dollar  eroded the value of overseas receipts, said Chief
Executive Officer Jeffery Boyd.  “Guidance was a lot worse even off of lowered
expectations,” said  Herman Leung , an analyst at Susquehanna
International Group, in a research note about Priceline.  Third-quarter sales will rise 9 percent to 15 percent,
Norwalk, Connecticut-based Priceline said yesterday in a
statement. That indicates revenue of $1.58 billion to $1.67
billion, less than the average analyst estimate of $1.8 billion.  Profit excluding some items will be $11.10 to $12.10 a
share in the current period, Priceline said. That fell short of
$12.79, the average analyst  estimate  compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘European Market’  “Weak economic conditions and sovereign debt concerns
further contributed to the level of deceleration experienced,
particularly in our key European market, which represents about
60 percent of our total booked room nights,” Priceline Chief
Financial Officer Daniel Finnegan said on a conference call
yesterday.  Priceline competes with  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  and Orbitz in the
hotel- and airline-reservation market.  Orbitz’s revenue in the third quarter will be $197 million
to $203 million, the Chicago-based company said today in a
statement. That fell short of the average analyst projection of
$216.4 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Our outlook for the third quarter and balance of the year
is impacted by the global economic uncertainty that intensified
during the second quarter and has continued into the third
quarter,” Orbitz CEO Barney Harford said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  