-- Prosecutor Demands 3-Year Jail Term for Anti-Putin Punk Band
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-08-07T14:25:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/prosecutor-demands-3-year-jail-term-for-anti-putin-punk-band-1-.html
A Russian prosecutor demanded a
three-year prison sentence for three members of an all-female
punk band on trial in Moscow for hooliganism and inciting
religious hatred.  Pussy Riot performed what they called a “punk prayer” in
February inside Moscow’s Christ the Savior cathedral, the
country’s main Christian Orthodox place of worship, targeting
 Vladimir Putin , who extended his 12-year rule in presidential
elections in March.  The protest “had a negative psychological effect on
Orthodox Christian believers,” the prosecutor, Alexander
Nikiforov, said in comments broadcast on the  website  of the RIA
Novosti news service. Mark Feigin, a lawyer for the women, said
he expects a guilty verdict and a jail sentence that will
“really anger” Russian society.  Three months into Putin’s third presidential term, the punk
band members await a ruling as the Russian leader hardens his
response to the biggest unrest since he came to power in 2000.
Anti-corruption activist and protest leader Alexey Navalny as
well as  Alexander Lebedev , the billionaire newspaper owner who
supports the opposition movement, face criminal charges.  Putin has responded to demonstrations by tens of thousands
of Russians against alleged fraud in parliamentary and
presidential elections by tightening controls over the Internet
and non-governmental institutions and prosecuting opposition
activists and leaders.  Madonna, Khodorkovsky  The U.S. government condemned the prosecution of the punk
band on July 31,  Amnesty International  has declared the members
prisoners of conscience and music stars including Madonna, Peter
Gabriel and Sting have rallied to their defense.  Mikhail Khodorkovsky , the jailed former oil tycoon, said the band
members’ trial and detention conditions are degrading and may
amount to torture.  Maria Alekhina, 24, Ekaterina Samutsevich, 29, and Nadezhda
Tolokonnikova, 22, rejected criminal charges of hooliganism at
the start of their trial on July 30. They argued that their case
should be treated as an administrative violation, while
apologizing for upsetting religious sensibilities.  “I am sorry if we hurt somebody’s religious feelings,”
Tolokonnikova said today. “We don’t have any religious hatred.
Our act was political.”  Investigator’s Threats  Alekhina said that the investigator in her case had
threatened a sentence of as much as four years in prison to
secure her cooperation, and she and the other women on trial had
been deprived of any contact with their relatives during five
months of incarceration.  The three defendants, who were among five Pussy Riot band
members who performed the “punk prayer” in masks and wearing
skimpy dresses, face a maximum of seven years in prison under
the Russian criminal code.  Putin, 59, said on a visit to  London  last week to see
Russian athletes performing in the Olympics and to meet U.K.
Prime Minister  David Cameron  that while he didn’t see “anything
good” in the behavior of the members of the punk group, they
shouldn’t be judged “too severely.”  Navalny faces as many as 10 years in jail after being
charged last week with embezzling money from a state timber
company. Investigators opened a criminal case against Lebedev
for hooliganism after he punched property developer Sergey
Polonsky during a television show last September.  “These are not signs supporting those that hope for change
in the new era of Putin,”  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman
Sachs Asset Management who coined the BRICs acronym to describe
large  emerging markets , said in an e-mailed note yesterday.
“For a country with an average GDP per capita of around
$15,000, these are issues that should be diminishing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  