-- Public-Housing Parking Lots Make Everyone Poorer
-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 2012-08-07T22:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/public-housing-parking-lots-make-everyone-poorer.html
(Corrects 11th paragraph to say  New York  City attempted to
impose a congestion pricing plan in 2008.)  On First Avenue in  Manhattan , right
before the 96th Street entrance of FDR Drive, there is a large
open parking lot, in front of the Stanley M. Isaacs Houses, a
public-housing project.  The residents of New York’s public housing pay no more than
$45 a month for  reserved parking , which is a pretty good deal
because daily  parking fees  in midtown Manhattan average $40.  I find it somewhat bizarre that New York provides a luxury
good -- parking in Manhattan -- to public-housing residents at
almost no cost. But many government policies favor parking.  In much of the U.S., including New York outside of
Manhattan, land-use regulations require new developments to
build a minimum number of parking spaces. Employers can provide
their workers with as much as $240 a month in parking as an
untaxed  fringe benefit . In New York, tens of thousands of public
workers still receive free parking permits, and watchdog groups
 claim  many of them are used illegally. Street parking is often
provided at low or no cost in cities where every square foot is
precious.  Parking for public housing sits in the middle of three
separate problems: the scarcity of on-street parking, the
congestion of city streets, and poverty. The first problem --
lack of supply -- has led to the minimum-space regulations and
has justified subsidies. These policies, in turn, encourage
extra driving, and each new motorist imposes congestion costs on
other drivers, and pollution and infrastructure costs on
everyone else.  Modern Privilege  But taking this benefit away from the most vulnerable city
residents would seem to single them out and amount to
expropriation.  In the early days of the automobile, leaders of American
cities were loath to give away valuable space, and curbside
parking was often banned. For example, according to a  recent
survey  of parking policies, “Parking was banned in ‘The Loop,’
Chicago’s Central Business District, in 1928, and overnight
parking was banned in Manhattan,  New York City , until the late
1940s.” Into the 1970s and early 1980s, when I was a kid in
Manhattan, cars and parking spaces seemed both unaffordable and
unnecessary.  But motorists and business owners wanted low-cost parking,
and they got it, and drivers, rich and poor, grew used to cheap
or free street space. Metered parking in Manhattan now runs at
 $3 an hour , which is far less than the value of 100 square feet
of city land, or the  cost  of off-street parking, which is
typically  $20 for the first hour.   New building means more drivers and more competition for
street parking. The land-use regulations in cities, including
New York, that require minimum parking areas for new
construction artificially boost the supply of spaces. The
parking subsidies for public-housing projects do the same thing.  But such policies worsen the traffic problem by  lowering
the total cost  of a car trip. When I drive, I slow down other
motorists, and if I don’t pay that price, I’ll drive too much.  The sensible approach is to  follow the lead  of  London  and
 Singapore  and charge drivers for the costs of traffic
congestion. Electronic congestion pricing was  first dreamed up 
for New York in 1952 by William Vickrey. But the politics of
congestion pricing are so impossible that I doubt we will ever
see much of it in the U.S., except on newly built roads and
highways. New York’s most recent attempt to impose a congestion
pricing plan was  killed by the state Legislature  in 2008.  Employee Subsidies  Unsurprisingly, employees who have access to subsidized
parking  drive to work more often . The national  tax code  should
stop giving any deductions for parking expenses. Eliminating the
traffic deduction may have the added benefit of  narrowing the
U.S. budget deficit  by more than $3 billion a year, according to
one study.  New York, and everywhere else, should stop requiring
developers to provide a fixed number of parking spaces. Downtown
Manhattan switched its land-use regulations from minimum parking
requirements to  maximum parking allowances  in 1982, but the
other boroughs still have minimum parking rules, and they appear
to significantly increase the  costs of new construction .  We can’t punitively tax parking, as a backdoor means of
discouraging traffic, because, without congestion pricing,
drivers will be encouraged to circle, rather than pay more, and
that’s also bad. But parking isn’t some crucial public good,
such as medical knowledge, that needs subsidizing. Let the
market determine the supply and the price.  The parking guru  Donald Shoup,  a professor at the
 University of California ,  Los Angeles , argues that meter rates
should be set high enough so that 15 percent of parking spaces
stay vacant at any time, which represents something like a
market-clearing price. That price would ensure that drivers
looking for street parking could count on getting a spot, which
would reduce the time wasted and congestion created by drivers
 cruising for spaces .  A market solution could work for public-sector parking, as
well. There is little to like about free parking for city
employees. But it is a bit abrupt to remove their privileges,
and the  Public Employment Relations Board  won’t let that happen
anyway.  One path forward is to buy the workers out, giving them the
option of selling their parking benefits back to the city for
cash. If the employees have the option of being paid not to use
their space, then they will face a trade-off that recognizes its
real cost.  The same approach makes sense for public-housing residents.
Let them give their parking spaces back to the city in exchange
for cash. The city can rent the space at full market rates to
whoever will pay, and give the net proceeds back to the
resident. The resident who takes the deal will be better off.
Even if we didn’t want to be that generous, we could still give
the residents some compensation for giving up the space.  When public-housing parking spaces fall empty, they should
be rented at market rates, and the earnings should be shared
among the projects’ residents or spent on common amenities. If
enough spaces are freed up, the city should continue  allowing
more building  on parking lots. Land on the island of Manhattan
is enormously valuable, and should never be given away.  But we can eliminate subsidized parking in a fair and
reasonable way, by allowing current beneficiaries to get some of
the cash generated by more efficient use of city space.  (Edward Glaeser, an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how to fight the  Haqqani
terrorist network  and on why  German bailout fears  are overblown;
 Margaret Carlson  on the  Tea Party’s Senate takeover ; Clive Crook
on why  debt forgiveness still makes sense ;  Peter Orszag  on the
beauty of  Build America Bonds ; Meir Javedanfar on the price of
chicken and  economic hardship in Iran ; Caleb Scharf on clues to
the  behavior of black holes .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Edward Glaeser  at  eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 