-- Raisman Beats Romania Twice in 60 Minutes With Gold in Final
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-08-07T18:07:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/raisman-gets-gold-in-floor-exercise-in-second-win-over-romania.html
Aly Raisman of the U.S. won her
second gymnastics gold medal of the London Olympics, taking the
floor exercise today about an hour after a successful appeal
bought her bronze on the beam.  “It was the best routine I’ve ever done,” Raisman told
reporters. “I’m so glad I got the medal I wanted.”  Raisman, an 18-year-old from  Boston , scored 15.6 points in
the floor final at the North Greenwich Arena, beating  Romania ’s
Catalina Ponor for the second time today. Russia’s Aliya
Mustafina was third.  Linlin Deng of  China  won the beam, with teammate Lu Sui
second. Raisman took the bronze from Ponor after her coach,
Mihai Brestyan, told judges they’d missed a pirouette in the
American’s routine.  Zhe Feng of China won the men’s parallel bars and Epke
Zonderland of the Netherlands won the men’s horizontal bar.  Brestyan jumped up and down, cheering the final part
Raisman’s floor routine. After completing her dismount, Raisman
ran to Brestyan and hugged him, and he clasped her head in his
hands before kissing her forehead.  Raisman, a part of the U.S. gold-medal-winning team, stood
on the sidelines and watched a repeat of her beam routine as the
judges debated the merits of the appeal. Her final total was
upgraded to 15.066, equaling that of Ponor, 24, who was demoted
to fourth due to the American’s higher execution score.  Two Tiebreakers  The tiebreaker was the second that Raisman was involved in
during these games. She missed a bronze medal in the all-around
event on Aug. 2 after losing a tiebreaker with the 17-year-old
Mustafina.  “It was an excellent performance,” Martha Karolyi, U.S.
team coordinator, told reporters. “Justice was made and
certainly, psychologically, it was a great moment for Aly. I was
sure that she would do a good job on the floor.”  Jordyn Wieber of the U.S., who won the all-around world
championship last year, finished seventh in the floor exercise
after stepping out-of-bounds during her performance. The 17-
year-old Wieber also was a member of gold-medal U.S. team.  Gabby Douglas, the first U.S. female gymnast to win a team
and all-around gold medal in the same games, fell off the beam
during her routine today and finished seventh.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Spillane at North Greenwich Arena on 
at  cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
 Tariq Panja  at North Greenwich Arena on 
at  tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  