-- Rand Drops for Second Day as Commodities Fall on Growth
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-08-07T14:05:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/rand-drops-for-second-day-as-commodities-fall-on-growth.html
The rand strengthened to its highest
level in more than a month after  Germany  backed European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s proposals to stem the region’s
debt crisis, sparking a rally in riskier assets.  South Africa’s currency gained as much as 0.6 percent to
8.1189 per dollar, the strongest since July 5. It traded 0.2
percent up at 8.1483 as of 3:47 p.m. in Johannesburg. Yields on
the nation’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 rose nine basis points
to 6.67 percent.  Commodity prices rallied and the euro gained versus most of
its 16 major counterparts after a spokesman for German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said Germany is “not worried” about
Draghi’s proposal for the ECB to buy debt of struggling euro-
bloc countries in tandem with the region’s bailout fund, with
details to be worked out in coming weeks. Euro gains were
supported as the European Union said it had received no requests
for the region’s rescue fund to buy  government bonds .  “The euro has enjoyed some support as have risk assets in
all forms,” Quinten Bertenshaw, a Johannesburg-based analyst at
ETM Analytics, wrote in e-mailed comments. “All indications are
that the bullish sentiment on risk markets including equities
and emerging-market assets could persist for a little longer.
This will be seen as good news for an economy like South
Africa”, which depends on portfolio flows to finance its
current-account deficit and sustain the rand, he added.  The rand often moves in tandem with the euro, with a
statistical correlation of 0.7 over the past year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. A value of 1 would mean they moved
in lock step.  Reserves Rise  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI  index  of raw materials gained
for a third day, reversing a decline in earlier trading. The
prices of metals including copper and nickel rose. Metals and
other raw materials accounted for 45 percent of  South Africa ’s
exports, according to government data.  The rand stayed stronger after South Africa’s gold and
foreign exchange reserves rose less than economists’
expectations in July as the central bank reduced dollar
purchases. Net reserves climbed to $47.98 billion, from $47.94
billion, the South African  Reserve Bank  said. The median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey was for reserves to
rise to $48.10 billion.  The reserves figures “indicate that the Reserve Bank stood
back from the local  currency market  once again over the month,”
Bruce Donald, a currency strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd.,
said in e-mailed comments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  