-- Realogy Quarterly Loss Widens as Increase Expense Grows
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-08-07T21:23:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/realogy-quarterly-loss-widens-as-increase-expense-grows.html
Realogy Corp., the real estate broker
whose parent company filed to raise as much as $1 billion in an
initial public offering, reported a wider second-quarter loss as
interest and other expenses wiped out a revenue increase.  The net loss was $25 million, compared with $22 million a
year earlier, the Parsippany, New Jersey-based company said in a
statement today. The results included $176 million of interest
expenses, up from $161 million. Revenue increased 11 percent to
$1.31 billion.  Realogy is well-positioned to take advantage of the
recovery in residential property, parent company Domus Holdings
Corp., co-owned by  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and Paulson &
Co., said in a June regulatory filing. Realogy, which runs the
Century 21, Coldwell Banker and Sotheby’s International brands,
is going public as  home prices  find a bottom after the worst
housing slump since the 1930s.  The Realogy Franchise Group’s number of transaction
customers increased 9 percent in the second quarter from a year
earlier, while the NRT brokerage unit’s jumped 13 percent.
Realogy Franchise Group’s average home sale price increased 6
percent, the company said.  “We believe that the U.S. residential real estate market
is continuing to experience the beginning of the recovery,”
Realogy Chief Executive Officer  Richard Smith  said in the
statement. “We expected to see the continued improvement in
both home sale units and average sales price, with price
increases in most major markets being heavily influenced by
reduced inventory. Those expectations were realized.”  Smallest Decline  Home prices in 20 U.S. cities decreased 0.7 percent in the
12 months through May, the smallest decline since September
2010, the S&P/Case-Shiller index showed on July 31.  Realogy’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization rose 8.6 percent to $203 million. Income from
commissions increased to $983 million from $873 million.
Franchise fees climbed to $76 million from $70 million.  This quarter, home sales are likely to increase “at a high
single-digit pace,” and the average home sale price will climb
in the “mid-single digits as indicated by our preliminary July
results,” Chief Financial Officer Anthony Hull said in today’s
statement.  Apollo, the New York-based private-equity firm run by  Leon Black , will hold a majority of the voting common stock following
the offering. Apollo paid $6.6 billion for Realogy in the
biggest leveraged buyout of a real estate services firm on
record, in a deal announced in December 2006, five months after
home prices  peaked .  Realogy had about 13,500 franchised and company-owned real
estate brokerage offices with 238,500 sales representatives as
of June 30. It also owns a relocation-services company and
provides title and settlement services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in  New York  at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  