-- Treasuries Snap Loss After Bernanke Notes ‘Struggle’
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-08-07T06:19:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/treasuries-snap-loss-after-bernanke-notes-struggle-.html
Treasuries snapped a two-day decline
after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said people are
struggling economically, fueling speculation he is open to
increasing bond purchases to spur growth.  Treasuries returned 6.8 percent in the 12 months to
yesterday, based on Bank of America Merrill Lynch data,
reflecting demand for U.S. debt as a haven from slowing economic
growth and  Europe ’s debt crisis. The rally was interrupted this
month after a U.S. report Aug. 3 showed the nation added more
jobs than economists projected. The government is scheduled to
sell $32 billion of three-year notes today, $24 billion of 10-
year debt tomorrow and $16 billion of 30-year bonds on Aug. 9.  “If Bernanke thinks they should do something to support
the economy, it will put downward pressure on yields,” said Kei Katayama, who buys  U.S. government debt  in  Tokyo  for Daiwa SB
Investments Ltd., which manages the equivalent of $63.6 billion.
“That makes it very difficult to sell.”  Benchmark 10-year  yields  were little changed at 1.57
percent as of 6:50 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The record low was 1.38 percent July 25. The
price of the 1.75 percent security due in May 2022 was 101 21/32
today.  The rate climbed nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage
point, over the past two trading sessions.  Australia ’s central bank kept  interest rates  unchanged at a
developed-world high of 3.5 percent, citing a domestic expansion
that’s weathering a global slowdown.  ‘Difficult’ Conditions  “Even though some key aggregate metrics -- including
 consumer spending , disposable income, household net worth, and
debt service payments -- have moved in the direction of
recovery, it is clear that many individuals and households
continue to struggle with difficult economic and financial
conditions,” Bernanke said yesterday in remarks prepared for a
conference in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  The U.S. central bank bought $2.3 trillion of mortgage and
Treasury debt from 2008 to 2011 in two rounds of so-called
quantitative easing to cap borrowing costs. It’s now in the
process of swapping shorter-term Treasuries in its holdings with
those due in six to 30 years to put downward pressure on long-
term borrowing costs.  The central bank is scheduled to buy as much as $5 billion
of Treasuries due from August 2018 to May 2020 today as part of
the program, according to the Fed Bank of  New York   website .  The Fed said Aug. 1 it will pump fresh stimulus if
necessary to boost growth and reduce an  unemployment rate  that
has been stuck at 8 percent or higher for more than three years.  Merkel’s Backing  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government backed
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s proposals on bond
buying to help reduce borrowing costs in Spain and  Italy , a
spokesman for Merkel told reporters yesterday.  The three-year U.S. notes scheduled for sale today yielded
0.335 percent in pre-auction trading, versus 0.366 percent the
last time the notes were sold on July 10.  Investors submitted orders to buy 3.52 times the amount of
available debt last month. The average over for the past 10
sales is 3.49.  Indirect  bidders , which include foreign central banks,
purchased 30 percent of the securities, versus the 10-sale
average of 34.9.  Investor appetite for the safety of Treasuries ebbed this
month after a U.S. employment report Aug. 3 showed the nation
added 163,000 jobs, versus 100,000 projected by a Bloomberg News
survey of economists.  Mortgage Bonds  Fidelity Investments , the Boston-based fund company that
oversees $1.58 trillion, is bullish on privately issued mortgage
bonds because of improvement in the U.S. housing market,
according to a report on its  website  yesterday.  “We consider it our best idea in fixed income,” said
Bryan Whalen, co-manager of the TCW Total Return Bond Fund,
according to the report. The securities consist of thousands of
home loans made by private lenders that are packaged and sold as
bonds.  The bonds yield about 7.5 percent and are up 11.4 percent
on average this year, the report said.  Whalen’s  fund  has about 34 percent of assets in the
securities, according to the website. TCW Total Return has
gained 7.6 percent in the past year, beating 94 percent of its
peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yields indicate demand for securities beyond the government
bond market.  Narrower Spread  The  difference  between rates on two-year swaps and same-
maturity  U.S. debt  shrank to as low as 19 basis points
yesterday, the least in 13 months.  Investors use swaps to exchange fixed and floating
interest-rate obligations. The difference, the gap between the
fixed component and the Treasury rate, is a gauge of investor
demand for higher-yielding assets.  The Fed’s pledge to help the economy as needed “should
keep the U.S. rates market well supported for the time being,”
according to Zach Pandl, the Minneapolis-based senior interest
rate strategist at Columbia Management Investment Advisers LLC.
Columbia, which oversees $331 billion, posted the comment on its
 website  yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  