-- Treasury 10-Year Yield at 2% by End of Year, Deutsche Bank Says
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-08-07T15:03:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/treasury-10-year-yield-at-2-by-end-of-year-deutsche-bank-says.html
Bonds don’t have “a lot of value”
as Federal Reserve policy drives negative real yields that help
prop up equity markets, according to Dominic Konstam, global
head of  interest-rates  research at Deutsche Bank AG.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries may climb above 2 percent by
the end of the year, said Konstam of Deutsche Bank, one of 21
primary dealers that trade Treasuries with the Fed. That
compares with a median estimate of 1.88 percent by 74 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The  yield  fell to a record 1.38 percent
on July 25.  “There’s not a lot of value in bond markets, unless you
really think policy makers are going to get it wrong,” Konstam
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with Tom Keene, Scarlet Fu and Sara Eisen. “We
don’t think they will. We do have a call for higher yields
around the turn of the year.”  Real yields refer to interest rates minus inflation.
Consumer prices increased 1.7 percent in the 12 months ended in
June, according to the Labor Department’s consumer price  index. (SPX) 
For 10-year notes yielding 1.63 percent that implies a real
yield of negative 0.07 percent.  Market Returns  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has returned 13 percent
including reinvested dividends this year. Treasuries have gained
2.4 percent during that period, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. Speculation that the Fed may buy more
securities, known as quantitative easing, to prevent deflation
is helping support stocks, Konstam said.  “Equities and inflation expectations have been extremely
correlated,” said Konstam, who is based in  New York . “They’re
doing exactly what you would expect them to be doing in a world
where you think the Fed has been ultra-accommodative.”  The U.S. central bank bought $2.3 trillion of mortgage and
Treasury debt from 2008 to 2011 in two rounds of so-called
quantitative easing, or QE. The  Federal Open Market Committee 
said on Aug. 1 it will pump fresh stimulus if necessary into the
weakening economic expansion to boost growth and reduce an
 unemployment rate  that’s been stuck at 8 percent or higher for
more than three years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  