-- Revenue Rebound Seen Buoying Even the Worst States: Muni Credit
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-08-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/revenue-rebound-seen-buoying-even-the-worst-states-muni-credit.html
U.S. state revenue collections may
grow 30 percent faster than a year earlier, boosting investor
interest in the governments’ debt as borrowing costs in the $3.7
trillion municipal market hold near 45-year lows.  Improving revenue has allowed some states to rebuild
reserves tapped in the wake of the 18-month recession that ended
more than three years ago as they face looming  federal budget 
cuts and lingering unemployment, the  National Conference of
State Legislatures  said in a report today. A quickening fiscal
rebound may allow state debt to outperform cities after trailing
the past seven months, the longest stretch since 2007.  “If I were a buyer, I think I’d have a particular
interest” in state general-obligations, said Chris Mier, chief
muni strategist at Loop Capital Markets in  Chicago . “They were
the first to get hit in the crisis and the first to recover.”  Budget officials in 32 states project the economy will
remain stable this year, even as potential federal budget cuts
and a national  jobless rate  that has exceeded 8 percent since
early 2009 leave finances vulnerable, according to a report by
the Denver-based legislatures’ group. States forecast revenue
will climb 3.7 percent this year, up from a 2.9 percent clip in
the prior 12 months.  Lowest Ratings  Climbing collections are helping spur buying of even the
lowest-rated state debt. The  extra yield  investors demand of
issuers from California and  Illinois , which have credit grades
below all other states, is close to the lowest this year,
Bloomberg Fair Value data show. The states are among the
majority projecting revenue growth over last fiscal year.  “State budgets still face considerable challenges,” the
NCSL said. “Fortunately, state budgets today are better
positioned to handle these challenges.”  With the Federal Reserve holding benchmark overnight
interest rates near zero and budget-cutting politicians paring
local-government debt for the first time since 1996, municipal
borrowing costs have held at the  lowest  in a generation.  Today’s report is the latest to signal states’ emerging
fiscal stability, after the worst recession since the 1930s
depressed tax intake and boosted demand for services such as
Medicaid, the health-care program for the poor. Last week, the
Nelson A.  Rockefeller Institute  of Government said collections
from April to May signaled a 10th straight quarterly gain.  44 States  Revenue is forecast to rise in 44 states this fiscal year,
the same number as 2012, led by states including California and
 Florida , the legislatures’ group said. Five project declines,
including  Michigan .  The yield spread for issuers from Illinois, which faced as
much as $8 billion of unpaid bills at the end of June, was as
slim as 1.51 percentage points above AAAs last month, the
smallest since February 2011,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  The spread between lower- and higher-rated states may widen
with any new fiscal setbacks, said  Richard Ciccarone , director
of fixed-income research in Chicago for McDonnell Investment
Management LLC, which owns more than $8 billion in munis.  “If you’re going to buy something at a high price, you
want to make sure it’s a real diamond,” he said. “Right now,
the market isn’t necessarily making that distinction.”  The financial stress hasn’t disappeared. Revenue hasn’t
rebounded as swiftly as following previous recessions, and
nearly half of officials surveyed said the cost of Medicaid is
threatening to squeeze their budgets.  Federal Cuts  Officials in 10 states, including  Massachusetts , cited
concern that federal budget cuts may strain their fiscal
outlook, according to the report. Unless Congress acts, the
federal government in January may begin implementing $1.2
trillion of spending reductions planned as part of the accord
struck last year to shrink the federal deficit.  As a result, local governments are focusing on refinancing
debt instead of selling new bonds for public works.  While municipal issuance has risen 66 percent from last
year’s pace, financing for new projects is up only about 8
percent as of the end of July, according to Citigroup Inc.
Diminished need for projects as the economic rebound slows is
contributing to the restraint, the bank said.  Minnesota plans to sell about $659 million of general-
obligation debt as soon as today, some of which will go toward
highway improvements, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Still, Chris Mauro, head muni strategist at RBC Capital
Markets LLC in  New York , said he doesn’t anticipate the trend of
restrained spending will reverse soon.  “Things are better, but we think the recovery’s fragile
and can be quickly reversed,” he said. “Given the economic
outlook, I wouldn’t be surprised to see continued austerity on
the part of state governments in terms of their  capital
spending .”  Following are pending sales:  SAN FRANCISCO is set to sell $290 million of general-
obligation debt through competitive bid as soon as Aug. 14, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Fitch Ratings grades the bonds AA-,
fourth-highest. (Added Aug. 6)  CHICAGO plans to issue about $1.2 billion of revenue bonds
for O’Hare International Airport to refinance debt, according to
bond documents. About $729 million of the offer will consist of
general airport senior-lien revenue debt, set to price as soon
as Aug. 8, data compiled by Bloomberg show. (Updated Aug. 6)  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  