-- Romney Woos Working Families Attacking Obama on Welfare
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-08-08T16:13:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/romney-woos-working-families-attacking-obama-on-welfare.html
With an eye on middle-class voters,
Mitt Romney waded into a fresh social issue yesterday, accusing
President  Barack Obama  of gutting the welfare system’s work
requirements at the expense of taxpayers.  Speaking at a manufacturing plant in the  Chicago  suburbs,
the Republican presidential candidate sought to cast Obama as a
big-government supporter eager to give benefits to the poor
while failing to help economically struggling working families.  “We will end a culture of dependency and restore a culture
of good, hard work,” Romney told several hundred voters at Acme
Industries in Elk Grove Village,  Illinois .  By zeroing in on welfare, a topic rarely mentioned by the
campaign, Romney is seeking to appeal to white, middle-class
voters anxious about the economy, an aide said. Winning that
group could be pivotal for both campaigns in such competitive
states as  Ohio  and  Virginia .  The focus on welfare comes as Romney intensifies his
economic rhetoric, predicting a “financial catastrophe” if
Obama is re-elected.  “I’m convinced if we re-elected President Obama we will
see four more years of high  unemployment , virtually no wage
growth in real terms and a fiscal catastrophe at the doorstep,”
Romney told three-dozen donors gathered for a fundraising event
in downtown Chicago.  Welfare Attack  Romney pegged his welfare attack, highlighted in a new 30-
second advertisement released by the campaign yesterday, to a
largely unnoticed July 12  memo  by the Obama administration that
Republicans say dismantles work requirements established under
President  Bill Clinton ’s landmark 1996 federal welfare overhaul.  The White House pushed back, saying the decision permitting
the federal government to waive work requirements for states has
strengthened, not weakened, the welfare system’s ability to move
people from government assistance to employment.  “From a policy standpoint, this advertisement is
categorically false and blatantly dishonest,” White House press
secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters.  Clinton also released a statement calling the ad untrue. He
said the recently announced policy didn’t weaken the
requirements of the 1996 law and called the ad “especially
disappointing” because, as governor of  Massachusetts , Romney
had sought a waiver.  “We need a bipartisan consensus to continue to help people
move from welfare to work even during these hard times, not more
misleading campaign ads,” Clinton said in the statement.  Waiver Rules  To be granted a waiver, states must submit proposals that
increase the number of people moving from welfare to work by 20
percent. So far, no waivers have been granted.  White House officials said a number of governors had
requested waivers, including Republicans Brian Sandoval of
 Nevada  and Gary Herbert of  Utah . Both governors, who are Romney
backers, said in statements that they wanted greater flexibility
in carrying out their welfare programs -- not weaker work
requirements.  Obama campaign aides cited a letter Romney signed in 2005
with other Republican governors requesting similar flexibility
for states when he was governor of Massachusetts.  “Romney is falsely criticizing a policy he once
supported,”  James Kvaal , domestic policy adviser to the
president’s re-election effort, said during a conference call
with reporters.  ‘State Flexibility’  Jonathan Burks, a Romney campaign economic-policy aide,
denied that as governor Romney had supported flexibility from
the work requirement. He said Romney joined with other
Republican governors in the 2005 letter to congressional leaders
supporting a measure reauthorizing the welfare program that
would have increased the work requirement.  Still, the letter signed by Romney argues in favor of
“state flexibility” provided by the legislation, including
“increased waiver authority.”  The welfare issue is part of Romney’s broader effort to
portray the president as willing to increase benefits for the
poor while neglecting middle class families.  “It’s tough to be middle class in America today,” he said
today in Des Moines,  Iowa . “The president’s policies have
simply failed the American people.”  The Romney campaign also wants to contrast Obama’s record
with the Clinton administration’s legacy in a bid to drive a
wedge between the White House and the popular former president.  Clinton as Surrogate  Clinton has emerged as an increasingly high-profile
surrogate for the Obama campaign, which recently gave him a
speaking spot at the Democratic National Convention, which
starts on Sept. 4 in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  “President Obama apparently believes that Bill Clinton was
way too conservative, and that the Obama administration is and
should be far, far to the left of the Clinton administration,”
said Republican Senate candidate  Ted Cruz  of  Texas , a political
newcomer who scored a primary upset victory on July 31 with the
support of anti-tax Tea Party activists.  Democrats, too, worked to woo middle-class voters,
releasing a new ad casting Romney as indifferent to their
economic struggles.  $20 Million Campaign  The spot is part of a $20 million campaign by the pro-Obama
super-PAC Priorities USA Action attacking Romney’s business
record at Bain Capital LLC, the Boston-based private-equity firm
he founded and ran. It features a worker describing the death of
his wife after his family lost health insurance and he lost his
job when the Bain-owned plant he worked for shut down.  “I do not think  Mitt Romney  realizes what he’s done to
anyone,” says the worker, Joe Soptic. “And furthermore, I do
not think Mitt Romney is concerned.”  Romney had left Bain before the plant closed, and Soptic’s
wife, who died five years later, had kept her own job and health
insurance for a period of time after her husband lost his,
according to a Washington Post fact-check, which gave the ad
“four Pinocchios,”  its worst rating for truthfulness.  Both campaigns also devoted time yesterday to raising
money. Democratic donors in the Washington area paid $40,000 per
person to attend a roundtable with Obama, while Romney raised
more than $4 million at events in Des Moines and Chicago.  At last night’s fundraiser in Des Moines, Romney expressed
condolences for the victims of the Aug. 5 shooting at a Sikh
temple near  Milwaukee . During his remarks, he mispronounced the
word Sikh as “sheik,” using an Arabic honorific to refer to
the South Asian faith.  Long Day  Rick Gorka , an aide to the campaign, said Romney misspoke
after a long day of campaigning. At earlier events in Chicago,
Romney used the correct pronunciation.  Romney heads to New Jersey today as part of a two-day
fundraising swing. He will intensify his focus on battleground
states later this week, when he departs on a four-state bus tour
that will take his campaign to Virginia, North Carolina, Florida
and Ohio.  Today, Obama plans to start a two-day swing through
 Colorado . The president will be introduced at an event in Denver
by Sandra Fluke, the Georgetown University law student whom
talk-show host Rush Limbaugh called a “slut” for backing a
part of Obama’s health-care law requiring insurance companies to
cover contraception.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  