-- Russia Stocks Climb to Three-Month High on Oil, German Support
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-08-07T15:22:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/russia-stocks-climb-to-three-month-high-on-oil-german-support.html
     Aug. 7 Bloomberg) -- Russian stocks rose to their highest
in more than three months as oil advanced and  Germany  indicated
it will support the  European Central Bank ’s bond-buying plan,
boosting appetite for riskier assets.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  added 0.8 percent to 1,450.74 by the close
in Moscow, a third day of gains and its strongest since April
28. OAO Magnitogorsk Iron & Steel, OAO Novolipetsk Steel and OAO
Severstal, the country’s biggest producers of the metal, all
surged by at least 2.5 percent. OAO Sberbank,  Russia ’s largest
lender, rose 0.8 percent after reporting a 6 percent gain in
seven-month net income.  Oil, Russia’s main export earner, climbed as much as 0.7
percent to $92.89 a barrel in  New York . German  Chancellor Angela
Merkel  backed a bond-buying plan announced last week by the ECB,
a spokesman said yesterday, fanning speculation the monetary
authority will act to cut borrowing costs for Spain and  Italy .  “We are hearing from several quarters that risk-on is
back,” said Alexey Zabotkin, an analyst at VTB Capital, in an
e-mailed report today. “Over the last two trading sessions, it
feels as though the stock market, and risk appetite, has been
stretching its legs after the two-month mid-summer siesta.”  Russian stocks yesterday advanced to their highest in a
month on optimism an economic recovery in the U.S. is on track
and as creditors said  Greece  is making progress meeting bailout
terms.  Sberbank, which has a 14 percent weighting in the Micex,
added 0.8 percent to 93.96 rubles. The lender said net income
advanced 6 percent in the first seven months of 2012 compared
with a year earlier as the company made more loans to households
and companies.  Oil producer OAO Lukoil increased 1.5 percent to 1,872.8
rubles while OAO Gazprom, Russia’s gas export monopoly,
increased 1.2 percent to 156.61 rubles.  The Micex trades at 5.3 times  estimated earnings  and has
increased 3.5 percent this year. That compares with a multiple
of 9.9 times for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index, which has
added 5.7 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  