-- Russian Capital Outflow Forecast Underestimates Risks, Banks Say
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-08-07T09:38:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/russian-capital-outflow-forecast-underestimates-risks-banks-say.html
Russia’s government is playing down
the risks posed by a deteriorating global economy,
underestimating the scale of capital flight from the country
this year, according to Alfa Bank and UralSib Financial Corp.  “The only realistic way to improve net capital flows is to
boost gross capital inflows,” Natalia Orlova and  Dmitry Dolgov ,
analysts at Alfa Bank, Russia’s largest non-state lender, said
in an e-mailed research note today, reiterating their forecast
for $70 billion. “The current lack of confidence on global
markets is an obstacle to this scenario.”  Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  said outflows of net
private capital may reach $50 billion in 2012, double the
current prediction of $15 billion to $25 billion, Interfax
reported yesterday. The total may be “slightly higher or
lower” depending on oil prices, Klepach was cited as saying.  The world’s largest energy exporter had a $43.4 billion
outflow of capital in the first half, preliminary central bank
 data  show. Gross capital outflows have held steady at about 10
percent of economic output for the past 12 years, according to
 Alfa Bank .  The  International Monetary Fund  predicted last week that
outflows will probably continue at a “moderating pace,” with
strains in the euro area threatening to spur more capital flight
and squeeze financing for Russian companies.  While net capital inflows may have reached $3.6 billion in
June because of seasonal factors, Russia risks outflows of $75
billion to $80 billion this year because of “economic weakness
in  Europe  and the poor investment climate in Russia,” according
to UralSib.  “The $50 billion capital outflow forecast by Klepach for
2012 could be sustained only if the European economy improves
dramatically,” Alexei Devyatov and Olga Sterina, analysts a
Moscow-based UralSib, said in a note. “If the European economy
deteriorates significantly, in which case  oil prices  could fall
substantially, then Russia’s country risks will dramatically
increase.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  