-- Samsung Sends Out Geeks to Revamp Laptops With New Drives
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-08-07T19:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/samsung-sends-out-geeks-to-revamp-laptops-with-new-drives.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  is betting it
can grab part of the growing market for replacement computer
storage by selling memory chips drives directly to consumers,
backed by an unconventional marketing effort.  The world’s second-largest chipmaker, based in Suwon,  South
Korea , is promoting so-called SSDs -- solid-state drives -- as
replacements for hard disks since they’re less vulnerable to
shock, transmit information faster and use less energy,
prolonging battery life in a laptop.  The market for drives sold directly to consumers to upgrade
existing personal computers is set to grow 125 percent this
year, estimates Chris Geiser, a Samsung marketing manager.  “The word of mouth behind SSD is turning it into that
aspirational technology,” Geiser said. “We are seeing a
massive increase in sales.”  To promote its product, Samsung sent a team of computer
geeks -- with cameras -- to England, France and  Germany  in a
converted ambulance to ambush pedestrians with  offers to upgrade 
their laptops to SSDs for free. They managed to overcome an
overexcited dog, their one word of French “ordinateur”
(computer) and the glumness of English shoppers in Watford to
persuade 42 laptop owners to hand over their machines for an on-
the-spot upgrade.  The effort is also part of a wider push to drive sales of
computer components as the PC industry threatens to grind to a
halt this year. The SSD market will grow to $6.2 billion this
year, up 24 percent from $5 billion last year, according to
market forecaster IDC Corp. That’s faster than the 2.7 percent
growth in personal computers expected by Gartner Inc.  Roving Geeks  “We’ve already seen a strong first half,” said Gartner
Inc. analyst Joe Unsworth. “Now that we’re getting to more
palatable price points it makes sense for them to ratchet up
their marketing.”  Part of Samsung’s message is that SSDs can breathe new life
into their aging computers. When the roving geeks convinced
people to part with their machines, they whisked it off to
transfer the data off the old hard drive and installed the new
SSD. They then captured the reaction of owners as their laptops
booted up at faster speeds.  For years, makers of so-called Nand-flash memory chips --
the kind of memory at the heart of Samsung’s drives -- have been
touting the chips as the future of storage in computers.
Consumers and PC makers haven’t jumped on the technology because
the chip-based drives cost more and offer less storage.  One of Samsung’s current 128-gigabyte SSDs sells for $120
on electronics component retail website Newegg.com. The same
amount of money will buy a 2-terabyte hard drive from  Western
Digital Corp. (WDC)  or  Seagate Technology Plc (STX)  on the same website.  Samsung’s new drives have even had a makeover with the
addition of sleek, textured cases to make them feel more like
consumer products. Just over half of SSDs sold two years ago
were replacements, according to Gartner. That proportion dipped
to 42 percent last year and the researcher said it will fall to
35 percent this year as SSDs become mainstream and are
increasingly pre-installed on computers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  