-- Samsung China Assembler Employs Child Workers, Group Says
-- B y   M a r k   L e e   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-08-08T10:49:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/samsung-china-assembler-employs-child-workers-labor-group-says.html
A Chinese company that assembles
devices for  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  hired children at its
production facilities and forced employees to work excessive
hours, violating labor laws,  China  Labor Watch said in a report.  Seven children younger than 16 were working in the factory
of HEG Electronics (Huizhou) Co. that makes phones and  DVD
players  for Samsung, according to the  report  issued yesterday.
Child workers faced the “same harsh conditions” as adults and
were paid only 70 percent of the wages of other workers,
according to the New York-based group, which said it conducted
investigations in June and July. Samsung will send a team of
inspectors to the factory tomorrow to investigate, Nam Ki Yung,
a spokesman for the company, said by telephone today.  China Labor Watch previously published reports on
explosions at factories and in 2010 accused Foxconn Technology
Group, the assembler of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPhones and iPads, of running
a sweatshop in the country after a spate of suicides, a charge
the Taiwanese company denied. The latest report said working
conditions at HEG are “well below” those at Apple suppliers.  “Samsung Electronics has conducted two separate on-site
inspections on HEG’s working conditions this year but found no
irregularities on those occasions,” Nam said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  Undercover Investigation  Li Qiang , a director at China Labor Watch in  New York , said
a group member took a job at the factory to conduct the
investigation and interviewed the seven children. The group used
aliases when referring to the children in the report to protect
them, he said.  China Labor Watch did not report the cases to public
security bureaus or other government agencies, Li said.  “What we want, most of all, is for the children to go back
to school,” Li said by phone yesterday.  Four calls to two telephone numbers in Huizhou in southern
China listed on HEG’s website were unanswered, and an e-mail
sent to the company’s designated address bounced back. HEG is a
unit of Harbin Electronic Group Corp., according to its website.  “The company has clearly violated Chinese  labor laws ,”
China Labor Watch said about HEG Electronics. “A serious light
needs to be shined on these issues.”  Overtime of between three to five hours a day in addition
to the routine eight-hour work day is compulsory for HEG
employees, China Labor Watch said in the report. Workers on
HEG’s 11-hour night shift are given only a 40-minute break for
meals, the labor rights group said.  “Child labor is a common practice in the factory,” the
report said. Student workers amount to 80 percent of the factory
workforce, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  