-- Santorum Joins Jeb Bush as Republican Convention Adds Speakers
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-08-07T13:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/santorum-joins-jeb-bush-as-republican-convention-adds-speakers.html
Former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum , a chief rival of Mitt Romney and a favorite of social
conservatives, will join former Florida Governor Jeb Bush as a
speaker at the Republican National Convention.  Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, founder of the U.S. Senate’s
Tea Party Caucus and son of another Romney rival, Representative
 Ron Paul  of Texas, will also address the delegates, as will
Governor Mary Fallin of Oklahoma, who was the first woman
elected to Congress from that state since the 1920s.  The announcement came in a statement today by Republican
Party Chairman Reince Priebus, who yesterday listed speakers
that included Senator  John McCain  and former Secretary of State
 Condoleezza Rice . The convention where Romney will be nominated
as the party’s presidential candidate will be held in Tampa,
 Florida , Aug. 27-30.  “As our party unites around Governor Romney, these four
great leaders will lend their voices in support of his vision to
get America back on track,” Priebus said in today’s statement.  Santorum ended his campaign for the Republican nomination
in April and endorsed Romney in May.  “The core principles of our country are at stake,”
Santorum said in a statement. “Conservatives from across the
country are rallying together and we will make our voices heard
in a few weeks in Tampa.”  More convention speakers, including the keynote, will be
announced in the coming days and weeks, Priebus said. Almost
50,000 visitors are expected to come to the Tampa Bay area for
the event, including delegates, alternate delegates, media and
other guests.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  