-- Saudi Outlook ‘Broadly Favorable’ on Spending, IMF Says
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-08-07T13:31:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/saudi-outlook-broadly-favorable-on-spending-imf-says.html
The outlook for  Saudi Arabia ’s
economy is “broadly favorable” as the kingdom benefits from
increased oil revenue and government spending, the  International
Monetary Fund  said.  Gross domestic product will increase 6 percent this year,
compared with 7.1 percent in 2011, the Washington-based lender
said today in a review of the Saudi economy. Before the IMF
announcement, Saudi Finance Minister Ibrahim al-Assaf said in an
interview with Al Arabiya television that he saw no reason to
change the country’s economic growth forecast of 5.9 percent
this year after the IMF review.  Saudi Arabia, which depends on oil for 86 percent of its
revenue, is spending more than $500 billion on infrastructure
and housing. Banks have picked up lending at the second-fastest
pace in the Gulf Cooperation Council as companies participate in
opportunities generated by government expenditure. Crude  oil
prices  are averaging $96.50 a barrel this year compared with
about $95 in 2011.  “Higher oil revenues have strengthened fiscal and external
balances and have boosted social spending and savings for future
generations,” the IMF said. “The near-term economic outlook is
broadly favorable, although geopolitical risks and oil prices
remain sources of volatility.”  Inflation Concerns  The Saudi economy will probably expand 5 percent this year,
the most in the six-nation GCC after Qatar, according to the
median estimate of 12 economists compiled by Bloomberg in July.
Lending to private Saudi businesses climbed 14 percent in June,
the fastest pace since March 2009, central bank data show.  Saudi Arabia needs to “forestall any inflation pressures
engendered by robust growth through a proactive use of liquidity
and macro-prudential policy tools,” the IMF said. “While the
government has built significant policy buffers, fiscal spending
is above the level consistent with an intergenerationally
equitable draw-down of oil wealth.”  Consumer prices climbed 4.9 percent in June from a year
earlier and were up 0.2 percent from May, the Central Department
of Statistics said on July 10.  The IMF welcomed Saudi Arabia’s efforts to stabilize oil
markets. The country’s higher growth, public spending and
expanded financial assistance have had a “positive spillover to
the region,” the IMF said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  