-- SEC Freezes Another $6 Million in Nexen Insider Trading Case
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2012-08-07T04:07:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/sec-freezes-another-6-million-in-nexen-insider-trading-case.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission obtained a second emergency court order to freeze
assets of traders who allegedly profited from insider knowledge
of  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s bid for  Nexen Inc. (NXY)   The second order relates to $6 million held by unknown
traders, who the SEC alleges reaped $2.3 million by trading
illegally ahead of Cnooc Ltd.’s July 23 announcement that it
would buy the Canadian  oil company .  Nexen’s stock rose more than 50 percent on July 23 after
Beijing-based Cnooc said it would pay $15.1 billion in cash to
acquire the Calgary-based company. The deal will be a test of
the U.S.’s willingness to allow large Chinese investments as
Nexen operates in the U.S. portion of the  Gulf of Mexico .  The SEC said the traders opened a U.S. brokerage account
through Hong Kong-based CSI Capital Management Ltd. a week
before the the Cnooc-Nexen deal. On July 27, the SEC first
announced it suspected  insider trading  on the deal with a court
order to freeze the assets of traders who allegedly reaped more
than $13 million from illegal trading.  Hong Kong-based Well Advantage Ltd. and unknown traders had
bought Nexen stock based on “nonpublic information” and made
an illegal profit of $13 million, the SEC said in a statement on
July 27. Well Advantage is controlled by Chinese billionaire
Zhang Zhirong.  iPR Ogilvy in  Hong Kong , which handles Zhang’s public
relations, declined to comment on the latest SEC charges.
Jonathan Li, a spokesman at Hong Kong’s Securities and Futures
Commission, declined to comment on the case.  The latest court order has swelled the assets frozen in
connection with the insider trading charges to more than $44
million, the SEC said.  CSI Capital Management Ltd. is a British Virgin Islands
incorporated company located in Hong Kong, according to SEC
filings. CSI Capital is owned by a unit of Citic Securities Co.,
China’s largest brokerage by market value. Two calls seeking
comment to Citic Securities’ Beijing-based spokesman  Raymond
Tang , weren’t answered today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  