-- Tokyo System Errors Underscore Decline in Japan’s Equity Market
-- B y   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a ,   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   Y u m i   I k e d a
-- 2012-08-07T15:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/second-system-error-in-seven-months-halts-tokyo-derivative-trade.html
The  Tokyo Stock Exchange Group Inc. ’s
second major system error in seven months took derivatives
trading offline for 95 minutes and underscored the challenge
 Japan  faces to revive its reputation as a global equity hub.  Share trading  volumes  fell,  government bonds  dropped and
index-futures traders were diverted to Tokyo’s smaller  Osaka 
rival during the halt, which lasted from 9:22 a.m. to 10:55
a.m. local time. The error was compounded by a failure of backup
systems similar to that which caused the biggest disruption in
six years on Feb. 2, said Hiroaki Uji, director of trading 
systems at the bourse.  The outage, which affected stock-index and government-bond
futures and options, is a further setback for the Tokyo exchange
as it pursues a takeover bid for the Osaka bourse, which
dominates Japan’s equity derivatives business. The breakdown
also highlights the vulnerability of global markets to computer
malfunctions, a week after errors at market-maker  Knight Capital
Group Inc. (KCG)  led to wrong trades for more than 100 U.S. stocks.  “They need to get to the bottom of this fast or people
will lose faith in Tokyo trading,” said  Ayako Sera , a market
strategist at Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Ltd., which has 33
trillion yen ($421 billion) in assets. “Fortunately, the error
took place when the market was quiet. If a system glitch happens
when the market’s busy, say, with the release of GDP data, and
we can’t measure the market with JGB futures. That would be a
mess.”  Earnings Peak  This week is the second-busiest for earnings on the 1,672-
company Topix Index, which has lost 74 percent since a 1989
peak. Japan, the world’s No. 2 equity market by value, has
played host to $1.67 billion in initial public offerings this
year, just 2.1 percent of the global total, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan’s reputation as a financial hub has been battered as
more than two decades of equity losses and economic stagnation
have combined with corporate governance scandals. Poor
management at Tokyo Electric Power Co. was blamed in part for
last year’s nuclear disaster, while senior board members of
Olympus Corp. were found to have hidden losses through inflated
fees after they fired whistle-blowing president  Michael Woodford 
in October.  The initial error took place somewhere in the Tdex+ system
used for derivatives at the bourse, not Arrowhead that handles
cash equity transactions, Hiroki Kawai, director of information
technology planning and corporate strategy at TSE, said. The 
exact nature of the first problem or its cause were still 
unknown, he said at a 7:45 p.m. press briefing yesterday in
Tokyo. A switch that was supposed to automatically activate 
backup systems didn’t work. A failure of backups was blamed for 
the February crash as well.  ‘Shouldn’t Happen’  “This shouldn’t be happening at all, and it’s a risk for
investors that they can’t trade when they want to,” said
Kazuyuki Terao, chief investment officer of RCM Japan Co. RCM
oversees about $153 billion globally. “A system error happened
earlier as well, and I have to have reservations about what’s
going on.”  Volume on the Topix Index was about 20 percent below the
10-day average for the time of day when derivatives resumed
trading. Average daily turnover for futures on Japan’s broadest
measure of stock performance was 737 billion yen ($9.42 billion)
in June, the Tokyo bourse said. Volume for the day was 12
percent below the 10-day average.  “The failure of Topix futures reduced the number of people
doing index arbitrage,” said Naohide Une, head of equity
derivatives trading at Goldman Sachs Japan Co. “That’s why the
system error is not only affecting futures, but making cash-
equity trading thinner. I thought lower volume could cause
unusually big moves in stocks, but what actually happened was
market participants were holding back trading.”  Trading Osaka  The breakdown diverted investors to Osaka, the only place
in Japan where contracts on the benchmark  Nikkei 225  Stock
Average are traded, said Yuji Nakagawa, manager of derivatives
trading at Toyo Securities Co. in Tokyo. Osaka Securities
Exchange Co.  reported  daily average turnover of 1.29 trillion
yen in contracts and mini contracts on the Nikkei 225 during
June.  “It just prompted people to buy back short positions on
the Topix using Nikkei 225 futures, because Nikkei 225 futures
and cash are still being traded,” said Toyo Securities’
Nakagawa. “I haven’t seen a major effect.”  The Tokyo exchange  reported  an average of 45,537 10-year
JGB futures changed hands during June. An auction of 40-year
Japanese government bonds went ahead as scheduled. Yields on the
10-year JGB climbed as much as three basis points while the
futures-trading halt was in force. The bonds extended losses
after the lunch break.  “Because investors can’t sell futures before today’s
auction, bonds are susceptible to selling for hedging,” said
Okasan’s Suzuki, before trading was resumed. Okasan is one of
the 25 primary dealers obliged to bid at government debt sales.  IT Synergies  The Tokyo exchange operator and the Osaka venue cited cost
savings from integrating computer systems as a reason for
merging when they announced the takeover bid on Nov. 22. Tokyo
is offering 480,000 yen a share for up to 67 percent of Osaka in
a tender offer that ends Aug. 22. The merger has the backing of
Japan’s government as it tries to revive the country’s
reputation as a global financial hub amid competition from  Hong
Kong  and  Shanghai .  Tokyo started using Tdex+, based on NYSE Euronext’s Liffe
Connect platform, for options trading in Oct. 2009 and for
futures in November 2011.  Osaka’s J-Gate derivatives system uses technology from
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. and hasn’t had a major error since it
began operations in February 2011, Fumihiro Yada, a spokesman
for Osaka Securities Exchange, said by phone. Some firms
reported that placed options orders didn’t appear on the system
in February this year, Yada said.  ‘Ongoing Problems’  “It could be argued that the TSE is worth a little bit
less now than it was yesterday, because they’ve got ongoing
problems with their systems,” said Jonathan Foster, Singapore-
based director of Global Special Situations at Religare Capital
Markets Ltd., who advises some of Osaka’s shareholders. “There
aren’t ongoing issues with the OSE. This perhaps demonstrates
that the TSE needs them and their expertise more than the other
way round.”  Tokyo  stopped trading in 241 securities for 3.5 hours on
Feb. 2 after backup systems failed to compensate for a server
error. That malfunction, which also occurred during the height
of earnings season, followed a Dec. 29 cable problem that slowed
trading. Another bug in 2006 derailed all trading.  A Tokyo Stock Exchange information technology  planning
document  from September last year made building and maintaining
“a trading system of the highest global standard” a core
priority for developing the company’s derivatives market.  “Even without this, there’s a feeling that Japan’s markets
are losing ground, and I want them to get their act together,”
said Isao Kubo, a Tokyo-based equity strategist at Nissay Asset
Management Corp., which oversees about 5 trillion yen ($64
billion.) “The presence of Japanese stocks is shrinking, and
so, as an investor, I want them to do their job for the
future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  