-- Shell Gains Acquisition Firepower as Cash Flow Cuts Debt: Energy
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-08-07T16:39:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/shell-gains-acquisition-firepower-as-cash-flow-cuts-debt-energy.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  is building the
firepower to make acquisitions as record  cash flow  cuts debt to
the lowest level in three years.  Europe’s largest oil producer generated $12.6 billion in
 free cash flow , the difference between revenue from operations
and capital expenditure, during the first half. That’s the most
for any six-month period since Shell became a single entity in
2005 and has allowed The Hague-based company to cut its ratio of
net debt to equity to 8.8 percent, below any European rival.  Chief Executive Officer  Peter Voser  has signaled he’s on
the hunt for purchases, noting Shell sold $6 billion more in
assets than it bought over the past 18 months. Shell’s balance-
sheet strength may embolden the company to go beyond the $5
billion peak it’s spent on an acquisition, becoming more like
rivals such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , which spent $35 billion buying
XTO Energy Inc. in 2010.  “They’ve got a strong balance sheet, which gives them
financial flexibility to pursue opportunities,” said  Peter Hutton , an RBC Capital Markets analyst in  London .  Shell has talked to  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  about buying
some or all of its stake in  Mozambique ’s offshore natural-gas
discoveries, which would build on Shell’s position as the
world’s biggest shipper of liquefied natural gas. The holding is
valued at about $8 billion, based on the proposed acquisition of
one of Anadarko’s partners.  “There are acquisition opportunities in and around to
supply their core strategy of LNG into  Asia ,” Hutton said.  Julia Dudley, a London-based spokeswoman at Shell, declined
to comment on the company’s acquisition strategy.  Qatar Plant  Shell has completed projects including the world’s largest
plant to turn gas into liquid fuel in Qatar and an oil-sands
project in  Canada  that are now generating cash. It will look to
buy companies or assets with a value of as much as $10 billion,
said Jason Gammel, an oil analyst at Macquarie Bank Ltd.  “There is certainly talk about acquisitions playing a role
in the portfolio,” London-based Gammel said. “You will see
acquisitions being made in the mid-single digit billions.”  Shell bid $1.8 billion in April to buy  Cove Energy Plc (COV) , a
U.K. explorer with assets in Mozambique, before dropping the
deal because Thailand’s state oil company made a higher offer.  “Acquisitions need to compete with organic projects on a
profitability basis,” Voser said at a briefing to announce
second-quarter results on July 26. “Cove is a recent example of
capital discipline.”  Shell rose 1.7 percent to 2,286.5 pence in London. It’s the
eighth day of gains since the company reported the earnings.  Shale Driller  Shell’s biggest purchases in recent years have been in
 North America , where natural-gas prices at the lowest in almost
10 years are forcing some companies to sell fields.  Chesapeake
Energy Corp. (CHK) , the second-largest U.S. gas producer, plans to
sell $20 billion of assets to keep commitments to lenders.  Shell may buy companies of a similar size to the U.S. shale
driller East Resources Inc. it took over for $4.7 billion in
2010 and Canada’s Duvernay Oil Corp., a gas producer bought for
$5.8 billion in 2008, analysts said. Shell sold about $12
billion in assets and made about $6 billion in acquisitions in
the 18 months to July, according to a  presentation  by officials.  The company held about $17.3 billion  in cash  at the end of
June, and net debt stood at $15.7 billion, the lowest since
2008. Shell has spent about $1 billion this year on exploration
licenses, said Chief Financial Officer Simon Henry.  East Africa  Shell has begun talks with Anadarko over buying some or all
of its 37.5 percent in Mozambique’s Rovuma-1 license, people
with knowledge of the matter said last month. The nation is home
to the biggest gas discoveries in a decade worldwide. Anadarko
may sell some of its acreage off Mozambique, Frank Patterson, a
vice president for international exploration, said in June.  “ East Africa  is obviously a new gas province, which is
coming up fast,” Voser said in a Bloomberg Television interview
last month. “We are watching the situation very carefully” and
“this is a province which is of interest.”  Shell’s long-term debt-to-equity ratio, or gearing, was 8.1
percent at the end of June, down from 10 percent at the end of
March, Henry said. It’s “continuing to move lower in the zero
to 30 percent range,” he said. Shell plans to invest $32
billion in projects this year.  Shell has already met its full-year target of disposing of
$4 billion in assets, Henry said. It  sold  a refinery in  Germany ,
fuel retail chains in  Africa  and some fields in Nigeria and
Brazil. It will continue to spin off businesses that don’t meet
its rate of return hurdle.  A member of joint ventures supplying 30 percent of global
LNG, Shell will produce more natural gas than crude oil this
year. It plans to invest about $50 billion in Australian LNG
projects and developing gas projects in North America, using a
10-year low in local prices to supply the fuel to Asia.  “Every project is very expensive at Shell,” said
 Christine Tiscareno , an equity analyst at  Standard & Poor’s  in
London. “If they buy something it will be a small company,
something very fit to swallow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  