-- Sirius XM Rises After Boosting Annual Profit Forecast
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-08-07T20:18:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/sirius-xm-boosts-profit-forecast-after-adding-radio-subscribers.html
Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI) , the largest
U.S. satellite-radio company, reached an almost four-month high
after a jump in subscribers prompted it to boost its annual
profit forecast.  Sirius rose 4.6 percent to $2.30 at the close in New York,
its highest closing price since April 9. The shares have gained
26 percent this year.  Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization will be about $900 million in 2012, the New York-
based company said today in a statement. Sirius had previously
projected $875 million.  The company added 622,000 subscribers last quarter,
bringing its total to a record 22.9 million. As Sirius grows, it
faces a challenge for control of the company.  John Malone ’s
 Liberty Media Corp. (LMCA)  is trying to take over Sirius -- an effort
that has contributed to a 21 percent gain in the stock price
this year through yesterday.  “Our increase in adjusted Ebitda guidance to approximately
$900 million indicates strong confidence in our ability to
continue to execute in the back half of the year,” Chief
Executive Officer Mel Karmazin said in the statement.  A $3 billion income-tax gain helped net income rise to
$3.13 billion, or 48 cents a share, from $179.4 million, or 3
cents, a year earlier. Sales climbed 13 percent to $837.5
million.  Malone’s Plans  Liberty Media, Sirius’s largest investor, plans to take
over the company when it receives approval from the Federal
Communications Commission, according to a May 31 filing.  The move would allow Liberty to execute a so-called Reverse
Morris Trust, which involves splitting off its Sirius stake as a
separate entity, allowing Malone to save on paying capital-gains
taxes if he were to sell his shares, according to  James Ratcliffe , an analyst at Barclays Plc in New York.  “Our board and I am interested in trying to accomplish
whatever Liberty wants to do as long as it’s in all of our
shareholders’ best interest,” Karmazin said on a conference
call today.  As for Karmazin’s future at the company, the Sirius board
will deal with his contract, which expires at the end of the
year, prior to the next earnings conference call, he said.  Liberty needs FCC approval to complete a takeover because
Sirius holds airwave licenses issued by the agency. Sirius has
opposed Liberty control in its own FCC filings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  