-- Slim’s Wireless Hit as Economy Hinders Prices: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   T a i s   F u o c o
-- 2012-08-07T21:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/slim-s-wireless-hit-as-economy-hinders-prices-corporate-brazil.html
Wireless sales in  Brazil , the second-
fastest growth market for Mexican billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s
phone company, are becoming a drag on profit as competitors
reduce prices and the economy slows.  Second-quarter profit for Brazil’s four biggest mobile-
phone carriers was below analyst estimates, including Slim’s
 America Movil (AMXL)  SAB and leader  Telefonica Brasil SA. (VIVT4)   Oi SA (OIBR4)  plunged
Aug. 1 in Sao Paulo by the most in three months after it posted
an 83 percent drop in earnings, and  Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3)  also
fell.  Companies are trying to gain market share among Brazil’s
growing middle class by offering discounts of as much as 24
percent, allowing subscribers to cut their monthly bills even as
mobile-phone use increases. Tim, Oi,  America Movil ’s Claro unit
and Telefonica’s Vivo brand reported declines in per-customer
spending of as much as 15 percent last quarter. Brazilian
regulators also have penalized companies for customer complaints
by banning some sales and ordering carriers to cut fees.  “What you have is a Brazilian economy that appears to have
stopped on a dime,”  Christopher King , an analyst at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. who recommends holding America Movil and
Telefonica Brasil and buying Tim, said in a phone interview from
Baltimore. “You’ve got a combination of carriers that feel
desperate to grow revenue by growing subscribers, and you’ve got
consumers that are spending less than they were.”  Telefonica Brasil, Brazil’s largest phone company by
revenue, fell 1.3 percent to 48.72 reais at the close in Sao
Paulo. The shares have declined 6.1 percent this year. Oi slid
0.8 percent to 9.25 reais today, and Tim slid 3.7 percent to
8.70 reais. Oi is down 15 percent this year, and Tim has fallen
5.8 percent. The Bovespa has gained 1.7 percent in the period.  $74 Billion Empire  America Movil’s customers in Brazil more than doubled in
the past five years to 60 million wireless subscribers, making
it the company’s fastest-growing market after the Caribbean. The
increase was three times the pace of growth in  Mexico . The
company accounts for 58 percent of 72-year-old Slim’s $74
billion empire, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  Telefonica Brasil, the local unit of Madrid-based
 Telefonica SA (TEF) , said July 25 that net income declined 5.6 percent
from a year earlier to 1.09 billion reais ($538 million). Tim,
the second-biggest carrier in Brazil, reported a 0.9 percent
drop to 347 million reais, while No. 3 carrier America Movil
said on July 26 that its Brazilian earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, fell 6.2
percent to 1.81 billion reais. Oi’s net income plunged 83
percent to 62.2 million reais.  When  consumer spending  falls sharply, carriers have to be
more aggressive on price, said an America Movil official who
asked not to be named under company policy. The government’s
rate cuts have also hurt sales, the official said.  A Telefonica Brasil official who asked not to be named
under company policy declined to comment.  Price War  Telecommunications regulator Anatel in Brasilia has
increased oversight of the wireless industry this year as it
seeks to catch up with other nations’ moves to cut prices and
boost competition in the industry. On July 23, Anatel banned
Tim, Claro and Oi from signing up new wireless voice and data
customers in some regions because of network failures and
customer complaints about poor coverage. It lifted the ban on
Aug. 3 after companies agreed to spend a combined 20 billion
reais on network upgrades through 2014.  In February, the regulator ordered companies to reduce fees
they charge each other to connect calls by 14 percent. The
mobile interconnection fee may decline by almost 80 percent by
2018, Anatel Commissioner Emilia Ribeiro said in a March 7
interview.  ‘Heating Up’  “Regulation has been heating up,” said Richard Dineen, an
analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc in  New York . “We’re not going to
revert back to a period of super light-touch regulation.”  Companies are offering price discounts to lure customers as
growth slows, Oi Chief Financial Officer Alex Zornig said in a
telephone interview. While the slowdown will make it harder for
companies to replicate the gains seen in recent years, Oi still
has strong growth potential because it only controls about a
quarter of the market, he said.  “The price war has reached the bottom of the barrel,” he
said. “It should transition to a managed, rational
environment.”  Brazil’s  economy  expanded 0.8 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, the slowest rate since 2009. Economists are
expecting gross domestic product to grow 1.85 percent this year,
according to a central bank survey released yesterday.  Rising demand for data services such as  Internet access  and
online video may help wireless carriers usher in more stable
prices in the next few years than they have been able to
maintain for voice, HSBC’s Dineen said.  Tim hasn’t seen evidence of a price war since no carrier is
selling services below cost, said Rogerio Tostes, the company’s
investor relations director. Data services such as Internet
access will fuel additional growth, he said.  “The market still has growth ahead,” Tostes said. “What
we saw in the last few years, with growth of 30 percent a year,
will probably slow a little, but the prepaid segment and the
lower middle classes still provide lots of opportunity to
grow.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Taís Fuoco in  Sao Paulo  at 
 tfuoco1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at   jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  