-- South Korea to Weigh Second Straight Cut Against Signaling Panic
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-08-07T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/south-korea-to-weigh-second-straight-cut-against-signaling-panic.html
The  Bank of Korea  is set to consider
cutting rates for a second straight month, weighing the need to
prop up a deteriorating economy against the risk of signaling
panic to markets.  Ten of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predict
Governor Kim Choong Soo will keep the  seven-day repurchase rate 
at 3 percent tomorrow. The rest expect a quarter percentage
point cut to 2.75 percent, which would be the first consecutive
reduction in more than three years.  The BOK faces increasing pressure to act after exports fell
the most since 2009 on  Europe ’s debt turmoil and inflation eased
to a 12-year low. While Kim said last month that the  economy  is
losing steam faster than expected, policy makers may wait to see
more data before cutting rates again, according to economist Wai
Ho Leong.  “Dropping rates back-to-back after a long period of
holding rates might convey an undesired sense of panic in the
market,” said Leong, a senior regional economist at Barclays
Plc in  Singapore . Policy makers may “prefer to deliver easing
in a more calibrated fashion, conditional on data releases,”
Leong said.  Indonesia also decides  monetary policy  tomorrow and will
probably keep  interest rates  unchanged for a sixth month,
according to 25 of 26 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The  Bank
of Japan (8301)  may refrain from adding monetary stimulus for a fourth
time, according to all 22 economists polled. The  State Bank  of
 Pakistan  is scheduled to decide on borrowing costs on Aug. 10.  “For Asia as a whole, we won’t see rampant rate cuts,”
said Sanjay Mathur, Singapore-based head of research and
strategy for non- Japan  Asia at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.
“The economic environment is not dire enough to say we need to
cut rates aggressively.”  Australia Unchanged  Australia’s central bank kept interest rates unchanged at a
developed-world high yesterday, citing a domestic expansion
that’s weathering a global slowdown. A U.S. government report
last week showing the economy added more jobs than forecast in
July damped speculation the  Federal Reserve  will resort to a
third round of asset purchases.  “We expect the BOK to keep rates unchanged at 3 percent at
its August 9 meeting following the surprise 25 basis-point cut
in July,” said Kwon Young Sun, a Hong Kong-based economist at
Nomura Holdings Inc. “The BOK also may want to keep its powder
dry” until the Fed or  European Central Bank  eases.  The Fed said Aug. 1 after a policy meeting it “will
provide additional accommodation as needed” to spur growth and
employment.  Weaker Won  The benchmark  Kospi (KOSPI)  share index and the won were little
changed yesterday. The won has fallen about 5.4 percent over the
past 12 months, one of Asia’s worst performers, helping to
offset export declines at  South Korea ’s largest companies.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , South Korea’s largest automaker,
reported second-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates as
sales of the Tucson sport-utility vehicle helped the company
buck an industrywide drop in Europe.  Still, South Korea will probably fail to meet the BOK’s 3
percent growth forecast for this year, said Ma Tieying, an
economist with DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in Singapore, who is
predicting a cut to 2.75 percent tomorrow. BOK Governor Kim said
July 25 that the nation may fail to meet the 3 percent estimate,
while Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said yesterday he’s still
hoping to achieve such an expansion.  “If the BOK doesn’t change rates this week, it will likely
move in September,” Ma said. “The faster-than-expected
slowdown in economic growth puts pressure on the BOK to add
stimulus.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  