-- Sri Lanka Is Building Platform for Faster Growth, Cabraal Says
-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 2012-08-07T04:43:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/sri-lanka-is-building-platform-for-faster-growth-cabraal-says.html
Sri Lanka ’s efforts to narrow its
trade deficit and contain inflation will place the island on a
platform for faster economic growth, Ajith Nivard Cabraal,
governor of the  Central Bank of Sri Lanka , said today.  Cabraal spoke in an interview with Bloomberg Television
after the central bank held  interest rates  for a fourth month.  On the decision to keep benchmark interest rates on hold:  “We are keeping these rates unchanged because we have seen
very clearly that the measures that we have put in place in
February and March are working in the way that we have wanted it
to work, so therefore we don’t see any reason to make any
changes right now and we will be quite comfortable with the
results so far and we will stay on the same course as we have
already started now.”  On joining global policy easing:  “It’s unlikely that we will do that right away because we
have seen that there is some tension in our inflation front as
well, so we do not want to give any signal that we are fueling
that further.”  On the policy outlook and growth prospects:  “We would see, first of all, that our policy decisions
that we have taken are working in the way we have wanted it. We
had to deal with the trade deficit that was rising. We are well
on track now to see that that is addressed. Once that is
addressed we will then be concentrating more on the growth
momentum. We will have a growth which is fairly substantial this
year but nevertheless as you know it is a cut from the previous
8 percent that we have had.  “So this year it’s right about 7.2 percent. We still see
the economy moving without any sluggishness but next year we
will be poised to have better growth story and we will then be
ready to make any changes towards the end of this year.  “We are looking at 8 percent growth once again and we
think that that is manageable but to do that we need to ensure
that our macro fundamentals are on the right framework by the
end of this year. So that’s the main objective of our policy
decisions and we are on course to achieve that. And once we find
that around October, November, that we are on track and that
there is no risk of that failing, then we’ll be a lot more
confident about taking further measures to spur the growth from
2013 onwards.”  On further International Monetary Fund engagement:  “The exact sums have not been worked out as yet but we
have agreed between the two parties that we would be going into
what is known as Extended Funds Facility, that’s about the main
consensus that we have reached so far. But beyond that there
will be details that will obviously have to be worked out but we
will do that towards the end of September when the next
submission is due. But our own view is that we don’t need to
have a standby arrangement any longer because we are comfortably
placed with our reserves right now. But having the IMF with us
in the current global conditions will be a bonus and we will
certainly want to work out a methodology to have them with us
over the next couple of years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anusha Ondaatjie in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  