-- Standard Chartered License Threat Stokes Investor Concern
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h ,   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2012-08-08T08:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/standard-chartered-s-new-york-license-threat-unnerves-investors.html
The threat by a  New York  regulator to
suspend  Standard Chartered Plc’s (STAN)  banking license is stoking
investor and analyst concern the business model that produced
eight straight years of  record  profit is in jeopardy.  New York State’s Department of Financial Services this week
said the London-based lender conducted $250 billion of deals
with  Iranian banks  over seven years and processed transactions
for institutions subject to U.S. economic sanctions, and may
lose its state license. The  shares  had slumped 22 percent in
London since the Aug. 6 order, erasing 8 billion pounds ($12.5
billion) of market value.  “If a global bank loses its U.S. presence, that’s quite
hobbling in terms of conducting international dollar
transactions,” said Serena Moe, a former U.S. Treasury
Department deputy chief counsel and Citigroup Inc. lawyer who’s
now at law firm Wiley Rein LLP in Washington.  Standard Chartered  focuses on arranging funding and
providing guarantees for clients importing and exporting to
Asia, a strategy described by Chief Executive Officer  Peter
Sands  last week as “boring.” While it doesn’t have a U.S.
consumer bank, the unit that processes dollar payments for
clients with businesses in the U.S. and  emerging markets  is the
seventh largest in the world.  Pretax profit at its U.S., U.K. and European division
almost doubled in the first half to about $464 million, about 12
percent of the total.  ‘Under Scrutiny’  The stock was  downgraded by analysts  at Nomura Holdings
Inc. and Bank of America Corp. this week on concern the
allegations regarding the Iranian transactions may weigh on the
shares and lead to more probes.  “The whole business model comes under scrutiny given that
Standard Chartered is basically a trading bank in Asia where the
bulk of the trade is in U.S. dollars,” said Chirantan Barua, an
analyst at Sanford Bernstein Research in London. Barua has had
an underperform rating on the stock since at least March,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Standard Chartered yesterday denied the allegations, saying
it “strongly rejects the position and portrayal of facts” made
by the New York regulator. The lender said 99.9 percent of its
transactions with  Iran  complied with  U.S. Treasury  regulations,
and that the total value of trades that weren’t in compliance
was less than $14 million. Tim Baxter, a company spokesman,
declined to comment further.  Short Sales  The shares, which plunged 16 percent yesterday, the most in
almost 24 years, gained 8 percent to 1308 pence at 9:00 a.m. in
London today.  The bank might be asked to pay as much as $700 million to
resolve the allegations filed by New York’s banking
superintendent after his department grew impatient with inaction
by federal regulators, a person familiar with the case said,
asking not to be identified because the matter is confidential.  The lender is unlikely to lose its banking license because
the regulator’s  order  focuses on monetary penalties, Cormac Leech, an analyst at London-based Liberum Capital Ltd. who rates
the stock a buy, wrote in a note to clients yesterday.  ‘Uncertainty’ Effect  “It’s incredibly difficult to know what kind of impact
this is going to have on Standard Chartered’s business,” said
James Chappell, an analyst at Germany’s Berenberg Bank. “That
uncertainty is why the shares have been hit as much as they
have.”  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority is reviewing the New York
order to see if there are issues that have implications for the
city, according to an e-mailed statement in response to queries
today. Hong Kong has imposed a “robust” regime to curb  money
laundering  and financing of terrorists according to
international standards, the de facto central bank said.  Any limits on Standard Chartered’s U.S. dollar clearing
operations would be “negative” for the company’s bond ratings,
Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday in a statement.  “This business directly supports its global commercial and
trade-finance franchise, and the group places a heavy strategic
emphasis on transaction banking and cash-management services,”
Moody’s said. The potential for closing of Standard Chartered’s
New York branch also may have “broader implications” for the
company’s reputation, Moody’s said.  Sands, 50, said he saw “virtue in being boring” as the
lender posted an 11 percent increase in  net income  to $2.86
billion for the first half of 2012. The bank, which generates
about 70 percent of its revenue from Asia, has had a U.S.
presence since 1902. In 2008, it agreed to acquire an  American
Express Co. (AXP)  bank unit for about $860 million, in part to double
its business clearing dollar payments for clients.  ‘Reputational Risk’  The unit provided about 1,700 banks in 120 countries with
clearing services in U.S. dollars, euros and yen at the time of
the purchase. The bank clears about $195 billion a day through
its Americas division, according to its website.  “It does business with American banks and used to describe
itself as a bankers’ bank, organizing  trade finance  for Asia, so
it will not be good for its global reputation to be seen to be
falling out with New York regulators,” said  Simon Willis , an
analyst at  Daniel Stewart Securities Plc (DAN)  in London, who rates
the bank a buy. “It’s the reputational risk.”  Standard Chartered’s New York operation had $40.8 billion
of  assets  at the end of March, according to the New York
regulator. By comparison, the parent had $624 billion in total
assets at the end of June.  Central Role  The New York branch plays a central role in the bank’s
interactions with the  Federal Reserve , which guards the
stability of the U.S. financial system.  As of March 31, the New York branch had $17.7 billion in
deposits held at Federal Reserve banks, according to a data
filed with the  National Information Center , a U.S. data
repository. In November 2008, during the credit crisis, Standard
Chartered used the New York branch to  borrow $2.9 billion 
through a Fed emergency-lending program, according to a
Bloomberg News examination of data obtained from the central
bank under a Freedom of Information Act request.  Finance Director Richard Meddings told analysts Aug. 1 that
Standard Chartered took pride in being one of the few able to
provide non-U.S. clients access to dollar funding throughout the
crisis.  Dollar liquidity “has become one of the more sort-of
unpredictable and sort-of in-flux variables,” Meddings said.
“But we are in a position to take advantage of that, because we
are highly liquid in dollars. We have the trade-finance
infrastructure, we have the relationships.”  Dollar Funding  Wire transfers involving Iranian banks are at the heart of
Standard Chartered’s alleged misconduct. From 2001 to 2007, the
bank executed 60,000 wire transfers involving $250 billion
through its New York branch, according to the Department of
Financial Services.  At the time, the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control
required U.S. banks to identify and filter all dollar-clearing
transactions involving financial institutions operating in
nations facing U.S. sanctions, including Iran -- even if the
transactions were handled by third-party banks. Standard
Chartered flouted the rules by removing any reference to the
involvement of Iranian banks from wire-transfer orders involving
its New York branch, the regulator said.  ‘Rather Tricky’  Standard Chartered “had previously reported that it is
conducting a review of its historical compliance and is
discussing that review with U.S. enforcement agencies,” the
bank said in the statement, referring to the Department of
Financial Services,  U.S. Department of Justice , U.S. Treasury,
 Federal Reserve Bank of New York  and New York  District Attorney .  The DFS was created in 2011 when Governor  Andrew Cuomo 
merged the state’s banking and insurance departments into a new
regulator under  Benjamin Lawsky , his former chief of staff. The
agency has the power to issue regulations, investigate and fine
financial-services firms. It may also probe alleged criminal
activity and refer its findings to the state’s attorney general
for prosecution.  The lender’s top executives may now come under pressure to
resign, according to  Christopher Wheeler , a Mediobanca SpA
analyst in London.  “This is going to prove rather tricky for the management
team at Standard Chartered as they have been at the bank” for
years, he said. “This has been happening while Peter Sands,
Richard Meddings and  Mike Rees  have been in place.”  Settlement Seen  Sands was promoted to CEO in November 2006 after four years
as finance director. Meddings, who replaced Sands as finance
director, was previously director for governance for Africa,
 Middle East , Pakistan, Europe and the Americas. Since 2003, Rees
has been CEO of global banking and markets, the unit that
generates about three-quarters of the lender’s profit.  The bank may be fined $1.5 billion by regulators in the
U.S., lose about $1 billion of revenue from its Iranian
operation and a further $3 billion in  market value  if top
executives quit, Liberum’s Leech said.  That may prompt Standard Chartered to reach an early
settlement and avoid losing its license.  The problem is “what makes the stock go up from here?”
Wheeler said in a Bloomberg Television interview after the
plunge. “What good news can push the stock up? To get back to
where it was last night they need to resolve this issue.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  