-- Standard Chartered Falls Most in 24 Years on Iran Probe
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   G r e g   F a r r e l l
-- 2012-08-07T20:28:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/standard-chartered-falls-most-in-24-years-on-potential-iran-cost.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  fell the most
in almost 24 years as an analyst estimated it may face costs of
$5.5 billion after being accused of violating U.S. money
laundering laws over its dealings with Iranian banks.  The shares fell 16 percent to 1,228.5 pence in  London 
trading, their biggest decline since 1988, the earliest date for
which data are available.  Standard Chartered may lose its license to operate in  New
York  after the state’s Department of Financial Services found
the bank conducted $250 billion of deals with Iranian banks over
seven years and earned hundreds of millions of dollars in fees
for handling transactions for institutions subject to U.S.
economic sanctions. The London-based lender today denied the
allegations, saying it “strongly rejects the position and
portrayal of facts” made by the regulator.  The bank may be fined $1.5 billion by U.S. regulators, lose
about $1 billion of revenue from its Iranian operation and a
further $3 billion in market value if senior managers quit,
Cormac Leech, an analyst at London-based Liberum Capital Ltd.
who rates the stock a buy, wrote in a note to investors today.  “It’s unclear whether senior management will resign for
the alleged shortcomings given that they have been in their
current roles for much of the relevant period, raising the risk
of kitchen-sinking on arrival of new management,” Leech said.  The stock had risen 11 percent this year before yesterday,
making it the third-best performing British bank stock after
Lloyds Banking Group Plc and  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)  The shares are
now down 13 percent for 2012, paring the lender’s market value
to about 29.4 billion pounds ($46 billion).  Dollar Payments  While Standard Chartered doesn’t have any domestic U.S.
banking operations, the loss of the New York license would
hinder its ability to process dollar payments for clients with
businesses in the U.S. and in  emerging markets , said Gary Greenwood, an analyst at Shore Capital in Liverpool, who rates
the stock a buy. Pretax profit from Standard Chartered’s U.S.,
U.K. and European unit increased 90 percent in the first half to
about $464 million, for about 12 percent of the bank’s total.  “A loss of its U.S. banking license would not only
jeopardize part of this profit stream, but the associated
reputational damage could also have a severely damaging impact
to its operations within emerging markets,” Greenwood said. He
added that it’s unlikely the bank will lose the license.  Standard Chartered ’s New York operation had $40.8 billion
of  assets  at the end of March, according to the New York
regulator. By comparison, the bank had $624 billion in total
assets at the end of June.  $14 Million  Standard Chartered said 99.9 percent of its transactions
with  Iran  complied with U.S. Treasury regulations, and that the
total value of transactions that weren’t in compliance was less
than $14 million.  Standard Chartered “had previously reported that it is
conducting a review of its historical compliance and is
discussing that review with U.S. enforcement agencies,” the
bank said in its statement, referring to New York’s Department
of Financial Services, or DFS, the U.S. Justice Department, U.S.
Treasury Department,  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  and
 Manhattan   District Attorney .  The lender said it “waived its attorney-client and work
product privileges to ensure that all the U.S. agencies would
receive all relevant information.”  Standard Chartered handled transactions involving Iranian
entities such as the  Central Bank  of Iran, Bank Saderat and Bank
Melli, according to the regulator’s order.  DFS Superintendent  Benjamin Lawsky ’s agency is also
investigating similar trades between Standard Chartered and
entities in other U.S.-sanctioned countries, including Libya,
Myanmar and Sudan, according to the filing.  The DFS was created in 2011 when New York’s Banking
Department and Insurance Department were abolished, with their
functions and authority transferred to the new regulator, under
Lawsky. The agency has the power to issue regulations,
investigate and fine financial services companies. It may also
probe alleged criminal activity and refer its findings to the
state’s attorney general for prosecution.  ‘Offer Potential’  New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  said today at a press
briefing in Manhattan that the commencement of the state probe
“doesn’t mean anyone has done anything wrong.”  Standard Chartered opened its Iran office in 1993. Ten
years later, the lender said “cross-border trade flows with
markets like Turkey, Afghanistan, Iraq and Iran appear to be
growing and offer potential to us.” The bank stopped all new
business in Iran in May 2007 and pulled out totally in May 2012.  Wire transfers involving Iranian banks are at the heart of
Standard Chartered’s alleged misconduct. From 2001 to 2007,
according to the order, the bank executed 60,000 wire transfers
involving $250 billion through its New York branch.  During this time, the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets
Control, or  OFAC , required U.S. banks to identify and filter all
dollar-clearing transactions involving financial institutions
operating in nations facing U.S. sanctions, including Iran --
even if the transactions were handled by third-party banks.  The goal, according to the Treasury, was to prevent U.S.
dollars from being used to finance terrorist organizations and
the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.  ‘Reputational Damage’  Standard Chartered flouted the OFAC rules by “repairing”
wire-transfer orders involving its New York branch to remove any
reference to the involvement of Iranian banks, according to the
New York filing.  The alleged conduct occurred until OFAC revoked
authorization for such third-party transfers in 2008, the state
said. The lender continued to hide its actions even after the
transfers stopped, according to the regulator, leading to the
allegation that it hid the conduct from bank supervisors for
almost a decade.  When the head of the bank’s U.S. unit warned his superiors
in London in 2006 that Standard Chartered’s actions could expose
it to “catastrophic reputational damage,” he received a reply
referring to U.S. employees with an obscenity, according to the
order.  “Who are you to tell us, the rest of the world, that we’re
not going to deal with Iranians?” a bank superior in London
said, according to the New York regulatory order.  ‘Rogue Institution’  The agency alleged that Standard Chartered operated as a
“rogue institution” that intentionally withheld information
from state and federal regulators regarding its dealings with
Iranian clients.  The order poses a challenge to the bank’s senior
executives, said  Christopher Wheeler , a Mediobanca SpA analyst
in London.  “This is going to prove rather tricky for the management
team at Standard Chartered as they have been at the bank” for
years, he said. “This has been happening while  Peter Sands ,
Richard Meddings and  Mike Rees  have been in place.”  Sands, 50, was promoted to Chief Executive Officer in
November 2006, after four years as finance director. Meddings,
who replaced Sands as finance director, was previously director
for governance for Africa,  Middle East , Pakistan, Europe and the
Americas. Mike Rees has been CEO of global banking and markets
at Standard Chartered since 2003.  ‘Doesn’t Look Good’  “It’s too early to say who will fall on his sword as it
depends on what is found, but it really doesn’t look good,”
Wheeler said.  The accusations against Standard Chartered are the latest
in a series of alleged regulatory transgressions by the New York
offices of British banks.  In August 2010, Barclays Plc agreed to pay $298 million to
settle claims it violated trade laws by facilitating
transactions involving banks from countries under U.S. sanctions
including Cuba, Iran, Libya and Sudan.  In 2009, a unit of London-based Lloyds accused of allowing
Iran illegal access to the U.S. financial system agreed to pay
$350 million to settle an investigation by Manhattan District
Attorney Robert Morgenthau.  HSBC, also based on London, last month made a $700 million
provision for U.S. fines after a Senate committee found the bank
gave terrorists, drug cartels and criminals access to the U.S.
financial system. That sum may increase, CEO  Stuart Gulliver  has
said.  John Sullivan , a U.S. Treasury Department spokesman,
declined to comment on the New York order, saying that the
agency is in contact with other federal entities and state
authorities on the matter.  He said the Office of Foreign Assets Control in recent
years “has taken a number of coordinated enforcement actions
alongside federal and state law enforcement and regulatory
agencies resulting in penalties and forfeitures of well over $1
billion.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at   gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
 Greg Farrell  in New York at   gregfarrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  