-- Stifel CEO Says SEC Should Examine If Speed Threatens Stability
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r ,   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e
-- 2012-08-07T15:40:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/stifel-ceo-says-sec-should-examine-if-speed-threatens-stability.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission should examine whether an emphasis on trading speed
is threatening the stock market, said  Stifel Financial Corp. (SF) 
Chief Executive Officer Ronald Kruszewski.  “The SEC needs to make sure that the quest for speed in
market execution is offset by stability,” Kruszewski said in an
interview today on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers.”
“These systems need to work 100 percent of the time. Speed is
not everything here.”  Stifel Financial, a St. Louis-based brokerage, is one of
six investors that agreed to buy $400 million of convertible
preferred securities in  Knight Capital  Group Inc. yesterday.
Knight Capital, led by Chairman and CEO Thomas Joyce, lost $440
million after a computer malfunction last week caused the Jersey
City, New Jersey-based company to take on trading positions it
didn’t want. Knight Capital’s  stock price  fell to $3.07
yesterday from $10.33 on July 31, the day before the error.  Although Kruszewski said Knight had “alternatives” it
could have pursued, he said the group he participated in was
able to provide $400 million quickly because they understood the
business.  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  was the lead investor in a group
that also includes  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,  Getco LLC ,  Stephens Inc. 
and  TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD) , Kruszewski said.  “Time was the enemy here, the deal needed to be done, the
markets needed the confidence that they would have the capital
to conduct business,” Kruszewski said.  Needs Competition  Stifel and the other investors wanted to help Knight
survive, although “markets functioned very well last week when
Knight turned off its systems,” he said. “The market needs
competition in what they do. They’re one of the largest
providers of liquidity in the markets, and we wanted to see them
stay around.”  Kruszewski said the loss imposed on Knight Capital
shareholders should serve as a warning to other financial firms
to improve their systems.  “The best regulator is free-market capitalism -- look at
what happened here, the shareholders took a loss,” Kruszewski
said. “This is probably the best incentive you can have to make
sure this does not happen again.”  He said he’s persuaded that Knight Capital won’t have
similar problems in the future and that the management team led
by Joyce will build value for shareholders.  “What happened last week, based on my due diligence, was a
 black-swan  event,” Kruszewski said, referring to the type of
improbable occurrence described in Nassim Taleb’s 2007 book
“The Black Swan.” “I believe that Knight management and in
particular Tom Joyce is very capable and strong and they have a
good business model.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Erik Schatzker  in  New York  at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net 
Stephanie Ruhle in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net 
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 