-- Stocks, Commodities Rise as Yen Weakens; Treasuries Drop
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-08-07T14:33:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/stocks-commodities-rise-as-yen-weakens-treasuries-drop.html
Stocks (SXXP)  rose, sending the benchmark
European gauge to a four-month high, commodities gained and the
yen weakened amid better-than-estimated corporate earnings and
speculation central banks will boost efforts to lift growth.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.7 percent at
10:30 a.m. in New York. The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index added 0.6
percent. Standard Chartered Plc tumbled the most since at least
1988 after a U.S. regulator said the lender may face a
suspension of business activities. The yen depreciated against
all 16 major counterparts and the  Dollar Index  lost 0.1 percent.
U.S. and German bonds retreated. Natural gas, cocoa and copper
rallied more than 1 percent to lead gains in commodities.  Chesapeake Energy Corp., Sirius XM Radio Inc. and Fossil
Inc. were among U.S. stocks that rallied after reporting
earnings. Federal  Reserve Bank  of Boston President  Eric Rosengren  told CNBC the central bank should pursue an “open-
ended” easing program of “substantial magnitude” to boost
growth and hiring amid a global slowdown. German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  backed a bond-buying plan announced last week by
the  European Central Bank , a spokesman said yesterday.  “Any shift in sentiment can result in a powerful move
upward in the market,”  Hank Smith , chief investment officer at
Haverford Trust Co. in Radnor, Pennsylvania, said in a telephone
interview. His firm manages about $6.5 billion. “Earnings have
come in well above expectations. Expectations about Fed action
help and there’s more confidence today that Europe is inching
closer to a credit plan to avert a financial crisis.”  Market Leaders  Energy, industrial and financial shares led gains among the
10 main groups in the S&P 500 today while JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
Bank of America Corp. and American Express Co. rose more than
1.4 percent for the biggest gains in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average .  Fossil, the maker of jewelry and leather goods, rallied 32
percent after its profit and earnings forecast topped estimates
amid increasing sales of its Skagen brand. Chesapeake Energy
Corp., the second-largest U.S. natural-gas producer, jumped 9.2
percent after reporting the highest quarterly profit in company
history and boosted its asset-sales target to plug a looming
funding shortfall. Sirius XM Radio Inc. jumped 2.1 percent after
adding subscribers and boosting its forecast.  Earnings have topped analysts’ average estimate at about 73
percent of the S&P 500 companies which reported second-quarter
results so far, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Four shares rose for every two that declined in the Stoxx
600, with basic-resource and energy producers leading gains.
 Standard Chartered  slid 17 percent after a New York regulator
said it may stop the bank from doing business in the state
because it handled transactions for Iranian institutions that
are subject to U.S. sanctions.  Elan Drops  Elan Corp. sank 9.2 percent to its lowest price this year.
The Irish drugmaker wrote down to zero the value of its venture
with Johnson & Johnson to develop an Alzheimer’s treatment.  Soybeans gained 0.7 percent after the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said yesterday that about 39 percent of the U.S.
crop was rated poor to very poor, up from 37 percent a week
earlier. Oil added 0.7 percent to $92.81 a barrel in  New York .  The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note  rose  six basis
points to 1.62 percent before the government sells $32 billion
of three-year notes, the first of three auctions this week
totaling $72 billion.  Spain’s 10-year yield dropped two basis points while its
two-year rate climbed 15 basis points. The yield on Italy’s 10-
year bond fell 10 basis points, and similar-maturity Portuguese
debt yields declined 41 basis points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  