-- Ernesto May Grow Into Hurricane Before Yucatan Landfall
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2012-08-07T12:28:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/storm-ernesto-may-become-atlantic-hurricane-today-center-says.html
Tropical Storm Ernesto is heading
toward  Mexico ’s Yucatan Peninsula with 65 miles (100 kilometers)
per hour winds and may intensify to hurricane status before
landfall, the  National Hurricane Center  said.  The Atlantic hurricane season’s fifth named storm was
moving west-northwest along the Honduran coast at 13 mph, the
Miami-based center said in  an advisory  at 8 a.m. East Coast
time. Ernesto was 250 miles east of  Belize City .  Ernesto is forecast to become a hurricane today as it
approaches the east coast of the Yucatan. It is forecast to make
landfall near Chetumal, Mexico, early tomorrow, then weaken as
it crosses the peninsula and emerges in the Bay of Campeche as a
tropical storm, the center said.  There’s a chance the system will pick up some strength
before returning to land in southern Mexico on Aug. 10 and
dissipating.  The Bay of Campeche is south of the main body of the  Gulf
of Mexico , which is home to 29 percent of U.S. oil output, 6.4
percent of natural-gas production and 40 percent of its refining
capacity, according to the Energy Department.  A  hurricane watch  was posted today for Chetumal to Punta
Allen on the east coast of the Yucatan Peninsula. Tropical storm
watches and warnings are in effect for the coast of  Honduras ,
the Mexican Yucatan coast to Cancun and parts of the west coast
of the peninsula.  Heavy Rain  As much as 12 inches (30 centimeters) of rain may fall over
the southern Yucatan and Guatemala, creating “dangerous” flash
floods and mudslides, the center said. The sea may rise 4 feet
(1.2 meters) above normal tide levels near landfall.  Ernesto’s speed remained below 74 mph, the minimum for a
Category 1 hurricane on the five-step  Saffir-Simpson scale .  “If Ernesto survives its crossing of the Yucatan
Peninsula, the potential exists for it to re-strengthen over the
Bay of Campeche and make a second landfall on Mexico’s coast”
south of Veracruz,  Jeff Masters , co-founder of  Weather
Underground  in Michigan, said on his blog.  Computer models “predict that Ernesto will pop out so far
south in the Bay of Campeche that the storm will have less than
24 hours over water,” he said. “This makes significant re-
intensification unlikely.”  A tropical depression formed today off the west coast of
Mexico. The system, with 35-mph winds 605 miles south of the tip
of  Baja California , will stay at sea, the NHC said.  Two other systems, southwest of the  Cape Verde  Islands and
between Cape Verde and Barbados, are being monitored and are
given 20 and 10 percent chances, respectively, of forming into
tropical cyclones within 48 hours.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  