-- Storm Ernesto to Make Landfall on Yucatan as Hurricane
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-08-08T01:12:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/storm-ernesto-to-make-landfall-on-yucatan-as-hurricane.html
Hurricane Ernesto strengthened as it
bore down on  Mexico ’s Yucatan Peninsula, where it will probably
go ashore late today and then move into the Bay of Campeche, the
 U.S. National Hurricane Center  said.  Ernesto, the second hurricane of the Atlantic season, had
top winds of 85 miles (140 kilometers) per hour, up from 80 mph
earlier, and was about 65 miles east of Chetumal, Mexico, moving
west-northwest at 18 mph, according to  an advisory  at 8 p.m.
East Coast time.  The current  storm track  shows Ernesto crossing the
peninsula as a tropical storm and entering the bay, where it may
again become a hurricane Aug. 9. Mexico’s state-owned  Petroleos
Mexicanos , the third-largest oil exporter to the U.S., has wells
in the bay. Mexico sent 1.05 million barrels a day of crude to
the U.S. in the week ended July 27, Energy Department data show.  “It is not uncommon for hurricanes and tropical storms to
cross the Yucatan Peninsula and enter the Bay of Campeche in the
southern  Gulf of Mexico ,” Eqecat, a risk-modeling company in
Oakland,  California , said in an e-mailed report. Previous
hurricanes, including Karl in 2010 and Dean in 2007, “are
several historical examples of hurricanes from the past decade
whose tracks closely match that of Ernesto’s.”  The system may force some Pemex rigs to shut, said  Jim Rouiller , a senior energy meteorologist at Planalytics Inc. in
Berwyn,  Pennsylvania .  Wind Field  Ernesto is a Category 1 storm, the least powerful on the
five-step  Saffir-Simpson  scale. Its hurricane-force winds extend
about 35 miles from its center and tropical storm-force winds
reach out about 140 miles.  “This is not a very strong system,” Rouiller said. “I
don’t anticipate much damage at all to the Mexican rigs.”  A  hurricane warning  has been posted for the east coast of
the peninsula from Chetumal to Tulum, for Cozumel and for the
coast of Belize from  Belize City  to the Mexican border. Honduras
dropped all its storm warnings and watches.  As much as 12 inches of rain may fall over Belize, the
Yucatan and northern  Guatemala , creating “dangerous” flash
floods and mudslides, the center said. The sea may rise 4 feet
above normal tide levels near landfall.  Some computer models predict Ernesto may cross the
mountains of Mexico and re-form in the Pacific. The hurricane
center said it isn’t ready to forecast that “unusual event.”  Pacific Storm  In the Pacific, Tropical Storm Gilma strengthened slightly
and now has top winds of 45 mph, up from 40 earlier. It is 600
miles south-southwest of the southern tip of Mexico’s  Baja
California , according to the hurricane center. It is expected to
 drift farther into the ocean  away from land through the course
of the week.  To Gilma’s south, the center is tracking an area of
disturbed weather that has a 10 percent chance of becoming a
tropical system in two days.  In the Atlantic, the hurricane center is watching two other
systems, one southwest off the  Cape Verde  Islands and one
between Cape Verde and Barbados. They are given 30 percent and
near-zero chances, respectively, of forming into tropical
cyclones within 48 hours.  Rouiller said the one closest to Cape Verde has a chance of
becoming the season’s seventh storm by next week. The other
system is the remnants of Tropical Storm Florence, which is
expected to dissipate by week’s end.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  