-- Swiss Banks, ‘Devious’ Silver, Vietnam Stocks: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-08-07T12:39:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/swiss-banks-devious-silver-vietnam-stocks-ipos-compliance.html
Swiss banks must lure affluent
clients from emerging markets or face a “slow death” as the
pursuit of tax dodgers by U.S. and European authorities results
in outflows of assets, industry officials and investors said.  Western Europeans may pull as much as 135 billion francs
($139 billion), or 15 percent of their holdings, from Swiss
banks, said Herbert Hensle of  Cap Gemini SA. (CAP)   Bank Sarasin & Cie
AG (BSAN)  reported last week that private clients withdrew 3 billion
francs from Swiss locations in the year through June.  Switzerland built the world’s biggest offshore wealth
center during an era of “black money” that ended when the U.S.
sued  UBS AG (UBSN)  three years ago. Many of the highest fee-generating
European and American customers are withdrawing funds as the
hunt for tax evaders widens. As many as 100 Swiss banks will
vanish, according to  Vontobel Holding AG (VONN)  Chief Executive Officer
Zeno Staub.  Francois Reyl, chief executive officer of Geneva-based Reyl
Group, which manages 5.5 billion francs of assets, said those
banks that don’t adapt, “will die a slow death.”  Some banks are already under pressure.  EFG International AG (EFGN) 
last month reported outflows from continental Europe in the
first half, while net new money from private clients at Vontobel
fell 86 percent to 100 million francs from a year earlier.  Switzerland passed bank secrecy laws in 1934. Swiss banks
amassed one-third of the world’s offshore wealth over the next
75 years, before the U.S. government sued UBS on Feb. 19, 2009,
to force the disclosure of 52,000 American customers who
allegedly hid undeclared assets in Swiss accounts.  Almost one in three banks will disappear or merge with
other firms over the next five years as fees fail to compensate
for rising regulatory costs and difficult market conditions,
Vontobel’s Staub told Handelszeitung this month.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Vietnam to Ease Rules to Lure Stock Investors, Speed Up IPOs  Vietnam (VNINDEX)  plans to ease rules on equity trading and
accelerate initial public offerings of state-owned companies
this year to attract investors to a market that’s valued about
15 times less than Singapore’s.  The  State Securities Commission  is preparing to cut the
minimum holding period for stocks, Nguyen Doan Hung, vice
chairman of the commission, said in an e-mailed response to
questions from Bloomberg on Aug. 2. The regulator is also
considering widening stock trading bands and starting an online
auction system to boost volumes and speed up sales, he said,
without specifying when the measures may be started.  The value of Vietnam’s equity market has jumped 40 percent
this year, the biggest expansion after Venezuela, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Malaysia’s market is valued at $435
billion and Indonesia’s $407 billion, while Japan, Asia’s
biggest market, is worth $3.42 trillion.  To help lure investors, the State Securities Commission
wants to cut the minimum period investors must hold shares to
two days from three days by the end of this year, and reduce it
further to one day next year, said Hung.  As well as easing rules on trading, the regulator wants the
nation’s two exchanges in Hanoi and  Ho Chi Minh City  to set up
online auction systems to speed up IPO activity, Hung said.  For more, click here.  Polish Regulator Seeks Better Data on Banks’ Capital Adequacy  Poland’s lenders should “improve” the quality of their
capital adequacy data as systemic risk among lenders “remains
elevated,” Wojciech Kwasniak, deputy head of the country’s
financial regulator, said in a letter to bank executives dated
July 31 and published on its website today.  MSRB Seeks Comments on Plan to Gather Info on 529 College Plans  The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board issued a request
for public comment on a proposal to collect and analyze market
information on 529 college savings plans.  The proposed MSRB rule would require securities firms that
act as 529 plan underwriters, commonly referred to as primary
distributors, to submit information on a quarterly basis to the
MSRB about the plans, a statement from MSRB said.  Compliance Action  CFTC’s Chilton Says There Were ‘Devious Efforts’ in Silver  The silver market was affected by “devious efforts” to
move the price of the precious metal, according to Bart Chilton,
a member of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  Chilton made the remarks in an e-mail yesterday in response
to questions from Bloomberg. He said in the e-mail that there
“have also been silver and gold market anomalies outside of the
silver investigate window that have raised, and continue to
raise, market concerns.”  The enforcement division of the Washington-based agency
began pursuing allegations of manipulation in the silver market
in September 2008. Investigators have analyzed more than 100,000
documents and interviewed dozens of witnesses, the CFTC said in
a November 2011 statement. Chilton said last month the
investigation may be completed as early as September.  “We will decline to comment because the commission has not
decided a course of action on this matter,”  Steve Adamske , a
CFTC spokesman, said on the silver investigation.  New York Said to Probe Insurers Over Captive Coverage  New York’s  Department of Financial Services  sent letters
last month to about 80 life insurers in the state seeking
details on financial arrangements with captive insurance
companies, a person familiar with the matter said.  The  companies , which include MetLife Inc. and  Lincoln
National Corp. (LNC) , faced a deadline yesterday to provide the
information, said the person, who declined to be identified and
wasn’t authorized to speak on the matter.  Captives are companies set up by an insurer to cover the
parent’s risks. Bermuda and the Cayman Islands were the most
common locations for captive insurers in 2010, according to the
Insurance Information Institute. Vermont is the state with the
largest number of captives, at 572 in 2010.  Ron Klug, a spokesman for the  New York Department of
Financial Services , declined to comment on the matter in a
telephone interview. The letters were reported earlier in the
day yesterday by the Wall Street Journal.  MetLife uses captive reinsurers and letter of credit
facilities to comply with certain reserve requirements that are
related to universal life and term life insurance policies,
Chris Breslin, a spokesman for New York-based MetLife, said in
an e-mail.  Michael Arcaro, a spokesman for Lincoln National, had no
immediate comment.  For more, click here.  Turkey to Track Money Hidden in Foreign Accounts, Sabah Says  Turkey is working on agreements with governments around the
world to allow it to better track and prevent tax evasion,
Finance Minister  Mehmet Simsek  said, according to  Sabah 
newspaper.  An accord with Switzerland goes into effect on Jan. 1,
while Turkey is working on agreements with 10 other
international tax havens it’s identified including the Bahamas,
the Virgin Islands and Panama, the Istanbul-based newspaper
quoted Simsek as saying.  Turkey has also signed information-sharing protocols with
the governments of Malaysia, Singapore and Luxembourg, Simsek
said, according to Sabah.  Goldman Sachs Among Firms Pledging Better Controls to Japan FSA  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are among
banks in Japan that pledged to improve how they safeguard
information as the nation’s financial regulator seeks to restore
confidence dented by insider trading.  Goldman Sachs will train staff on ethics and
confidentiality, the New York-based bank said in a statement on
its Japanese-language website today. JPMorgan plans to increase
compliance staff in Japan and boost monitoring of communication
between employees to avoid leaks, it said in a statement.  The Financial Services Agency last month asked 12
securities firms to report on how they manage corporate
information after finding  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  failed to prevent
leaks that led to insider trading. The regulator last week
ordered Nomura to improve its securities operations, a week
after the top two executives at Japan’s biggest brokerage
resigned over the scandal.  Goldman Sachs employed about 850 staff at its Japanese
brokerage unit as of March 31. The Wall Street firm is offering
training programs on compliance and ethics and telling staff
they may be fired if they leak inside information, said  Hiroko Matsumoto , a Tokyo-based spokeswoman.  Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co.,  Mizuho
Financial Group Inc. (8411) ,  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) , New
York-based Citigroup Inc.’s local unit also plan to boost
compliance measures.  NYSE in Discussions With SEC to Resolve Market-Data Feed Inquiry  NYSE Euronext is working with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission to address compliance with a rule
prohibiting markets from disseminating information to
subscribers faster than it is sent to organizations that provide
the data publicly.  NYSE Euronext and the SEC are resolving possible violations
of “a technical rule governing the timing of delivery of
certain exchange market data,” Richard Adamonis, a spokesman,
said in an e-mail. “The company does not expect that any
settlement of this matter will be material.”  U.S. securities exchanges aren’t allowed to release data
about trades and their best bids and offers to clients faster
than they send it to the organizations that collect and
disseminate it publicly. Exchanges earn money from the sale of
subscriptions to proprietary and public data feeds, or streams
of information.  Proprietary market data from an exchange enables clients to
get transaction-related information faster than the public since
the content doesn’t have to be collected from all venues and
aggregated.     Rule 603(a) of Regulation NMS prohibits
releasing information faster through a proprietary data feed.  Second TSE System Error in Seven Months Halts Derivatives  The  Tokyo Stock Exchange Group Inc. ’s second major system
error in seven months halted derivatives trading for about 95
minutes, cutting equity volumes, driving government bonds lower
and sending futures traders to its smaller Osaka rival.  The failure lasted from about 9:20 a.m. to 10:55 a.m. local
time, the bourse operator said. Trading in Topix Index shares
was 20 percent below the average for the time of day after index
and government bond futures were halted. Japanese 10-year
government bonds fell during the breakdown. A similar error
caused the biggest disruption in six years on Feb. 2 when a
fault prevented backup systems engaging, halting trading for 3.5
hours in some of the country’s biggest companies.  The outage is a further setback for the Tokyo exchange as
it pursues a takeover bid for the smaller Osaka bourse, which
dominates Japan’s equity derivatives business. It also
highlights the vulnerability of global markets to computer
malfunctions, a week after errors at market-maker  Knight Capital
Group Inc. (KCG)  led to incorrect trades for more than 100 U.S.
stocks. This week is the second-busiest for earnings on the
1,672-company Topix. Tokyo, which hosts the world’s No. 2 cash
equities venue by the value of companies listed, stopped trading
in 241 securities for 3.5 hours on Feb. 2 after a server
failure. That error, which also occurred during the height of
earnings season, followed a Dec. 29 cable malfunction that
slowed trading. Another bug in 2006 derailed all trading.  A Tokyo Stock Exchange information technology  planning
document  from September last year made building and maintaining
“a trading system of the highest global standard” a core
priority for developing the company’s derivatives market.  For more, click here.  Knight’s Joyce Sees Permanent Solution for Firm as Shares Plunge  Knight Capital Group Inc.’s weekend rescue put an end to
solvency concerns at the firm, according to Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Thomas Joyce. It also sent the stock more than
70 percent below its level a week ago.  The Jersey City, New Jersey-based company, one of the
country’s biggest market makers, faced too many risks to make
its  equity price  a top priority in the bailout, Joyce said in a
telephone interview yesterday. Knight fell 24 percent to $3.07
in New York as investors prepared for hundreds of millions of
shares to enter the market via convertible securities.  Knight, driven to the brink of bankruptcy by trading losses
Aug. 1, received $400 million through the sale of convertible
stock. Jefferies Group Inc. conceived and structured the
investment and bought shares along with Getco LLC and Blackstone
Group LP, brokerages Stifel Nicolaus & Co. and  TD Ameritrade
Holding Corp., (AMTD)  as well as the investment bank Stephens Inc.  While  owners  of Knight stock saw the value of their stake
diminish after a 61 percent plunge last week, the firms behind
the infusion are sitting on potential gains.  For more, click here.  Courts  Former Lloyds Digital Security Chief Admits $3.76 Million Fraud  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ’s former head of digital banking
fraud and security pleaded guilty to submitting false invoices
totaling more than 2.4 million pounds ($3.76 million).  Jessica Harper admitted to one count of fraud by abuse of
position and one count of money laundering at a court in London,
the Crown Prosecution Service said in a statement.  Harper admitted to submitting fake invoices between 2007
and 2011 and then laundering the proceeds, the CPS said. She
will be sentenced on Sept. 21.  Lloyds spokesman Ian Kitts declined to comment. Harper’s
lawyer, Emma Lipscombe, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
requesting comment.  Stora Enso Price-Fixing Case Revived by U.S. Appeals Court  Stora Enso North America Corp., a former unit of the
Finnish commercial printing products company, must face an
antitrust lawsuit brought by its customers, a federal appeals
court ruled, reversing a trial judge’s dismissal of the case.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Manhattan said yesterday that
a jury could potentially find that the company, which was sold
to Newpage Corp. in 2007, conspired to fix prices. The three-
judge panel affirmed the lower court’s decision to throw out the
case against its former Helsinki-based parent,  Stora Enso Oyj (STEAV) ,
for lack of evidence.  “We are confident that a jury reviewing all of the facts
in connection with this case will conclude that there was no
agreement to fix the prices of publication paper in the United
States,” as a jury found in the criminal case, David Marx Jr.,
a lawyer for Stora Enso and its former U.S. unit, said in a
phone interview yesterday.  The case is In re Publication Paper Antitrust Litigation,
11-cv-101, 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Manhattan).  Interviews  Toes Says Glitches More Likely as More Rules Introduced  Jim Toes, president and chief executive officer of Security
Traders Association, talked about financial-market regulation
and Knight Capital Group Inc.’s software failure in one of its
trading systems.  He spoke with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s “In the
Loop.”  For the video, click here.  Hintz Calls Knight Capital ‘Another Bear Stearns’  Brad Hintz, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., and
Bloomberg’s Christine Harper talked about the outlook for Knight
Capital Group Inc. after a software failure on Aug. 1 left the
firm with positions that it later sold at a $440 million loss.  They spoke with  Tom Keene , Scarlet Fu and Sara Eisen on
Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance.”  Separately, Hintz wrote in a weekend research note about
the Knight rout and its significance in the debate about whether
big banks should be split.  For the video, click here.  For more about the research note, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 