-- Swiss Stocks Are Little Changed; Givaudan Shares Advance
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-08-07T15:53:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/swiss-stocks-drop-after-german-factory-orders-decline.html
Swiss stocks  were little changed as
 Givaudan SA (GIVN)  advanced, offsetting a report that showed factory
orders in  Germany  slid more than forecast.  Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s largest food company, declined 1
percent. Belimo Holding AG dropped 2.3 percent as sales missed
analysts’ estimates. Givaudan, the biggest maker of flavors and
fragrances, gained 1.2 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  slipped less than 0.1 percent to
6,457.85 at the close of trading in Zurich. The benchmark gauge
has still  jumped 13 percent from its 2012 low  on June 4 as
policy makers eased repayment terms for Spanish lenders and
central banks took steps to stimulate economic growth. The
broader Swiss Performance Index was almost unchanged today.  “Macro data have been coming in quite mixed,” said
Christian Zogg, who manages about $540 million at LLB Asset
Management in Vaduz, Liechtenstein. “Sentiment seems to be
quite positive at the moment as the situation in  Greece  doesn’t
look so precarious -- though I don’t think it will stay that way
for long. The debt crisis could escalate anytime again and we
expect further weakening of global growth, which could weigh on
markets in the coming months.”  The volume of shares changing hands on SMI companies was 23
percent lower than the average of the past 30 days, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Economic Data  Factory orders  in Germany,  Europe ’s largest economy,
declined more than twice as much as economists forecast in June
as sales to euro-area countries slumped. Orders, adjusted for
seasonal swings and inflation, dropped 1.7 percent from May,
when they rose 0.7 percent, the  Economy Ministry  said today.
Economists forecast a 0.8 percent drop, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Italy’s economy  contracted  for a fourth straight quarter in
the three months through June amid an intensifying euro-area
debt crisis. Gross domestic product declined 0.7 percent in the
second quarter, Rome-based national statistics institute Istat
said in a preliminary report today. The contraction was less
than the median forecast for a 0.8 percent decline in a survey
of 22 economists by Bloomberg News.  The  Swiss National Bank ’s foreign currency reserves jumped
to a record 406.5 billion Swiss francs ($420 billion) in July
compared with 365.1 billion a month earlier, indicating the bank
bought euros to defend the cap on the franc.  A separate report today showed that Swiss unemployment
remained steady in July, suggesting the economy is holding up in
the face of a worsening European fiscal crisis.  Nestle Falls  Nestle, which accounts for 25 of the SMI by weighting,
declined 1 percent to 59.70 francs, for the biggest drag on the
benchmark index.  Belimo Holding (BEAN)  fell 2.3 percent to 1,696 francs after the
maker of heating, ventilation and air-conditioning equipment
reported first-half sales of 217.5 million francs, missing the
average analyst estimate of 228 francs.  Givaudan gained 1.2 percent to 920 francs, posting the best
performance on the SMI.  Nobel Biocare Holding AG (NOBN) , the world’s second-biggest maker
of dental implants, jumped 1.3 percent to 9.05 francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  