-- SNB’s Franc Defense Swells Reserves to 71% of GDP: Economy
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-08-07T13:28:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/swiss-franc-defense-pushes-reserves-to-record-71-of-economy.html
The Swiss central bank’s foreign-
currency reserves surged to a record in July as the euro
region’s increasing turmoil forced policy makers to step up
their defense of the franc ceiling.  Switzerland ’s cash pile swelled 11.3 percent in the month
to 406.5 billion Swiss francs ($420 billion), the  Swiss National
Bank  said on its  website  today. That pushed holdings to 71
percent of gross domestic product. Walter Meier, an SNB
spokesman in Zurich, said “a large part” of the increase
resulted from currency purchases to defend the minimum  exchange
rate .  SNB President Thomas Jordan has pledged to enforce the
franc ceiling of 1.20 per euro “with unlimited purchases of
foreign currencies if needed.” The central bank implemented the
cap in September to fight deflation and help exporters. Its
reserves have soared 44 percent since the end of that month,
according to SNB data calculated to International Monetary Fund
standards.  “The SNB can keep its pace of interventions for a pretty
long time unless there is a massive disruption like the collapse
of the euro area,” said Maxime Botteron, an economist at  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  in Zurich. “As they increase liquidity through
their purchases, the only limiting factor is inflation. However,
that is not a concern at the moment.”  Haven From Crisis  The Swiss franc weakened after the release and traded at
1.2015 versus the euro at 2:13 p.m. in Zurich. It has traded in
a range of 1.20 to 1.24 since the cap was imposed, breaching it
just once on April 5. Against the dollar, the Swiss currency
traded at 96.62 centimes.  The central bank’s foreign currency reserves have expanded
almost tenfold since March 2009, when it started its first round
of purchases to prevent the franc from appreciating against the
euro, the currency of the country’s main trading partners.
Investors have been piling into the franc as they seek a haven
from the global financial crisis.  Through its purchases, the SNB increases liquidity
available to the country’s banks and consumers, raising the risk
of price increases in the medium and long term. Still, Swiss
consumer prices fell from a year ago for a 10th straight month
in July. Jordan said in June that “in the foreseeable future,
there is no risk of inflation in Switzerland.”  Dollar Reserves  In recent months the Swiss central bank has also
diversified its portfolio by swapping the euros acquired through
its interventions against other currencies including the U.S.
and Canadian dollars, the pound and the yen. Dollar reserves
rose to 79.4 billion francs at the end of the second quarter
from 63.9 billion francs at the end of March, the central bank
said on July 31.  Some analysts say the SNB’s interventions and its purchases
of assets may distort  currency markets .  “Whenever you have a participant of this size entering the
market it will shift the dynamics, especially when you consider
that the investment choice is not based on any market-oriented
basis, such as fundamentals, but purely portfolio allocation,”
said Peter Rosenstreich, chief currency analyst at Swissquote
Bank SA in Geneva.  Switzerland’s export-led economy is resisting the global
downturn.  The unemployment rate  has been below 3 percent since
April 2011, bolstering private spending, and the KOF leading
indicator increased for a sixth month in July. Still, export
growth was flat in the second quarter and the government in June
said “the recent deterioration in  Europe  poses a serious
threat” to the Swiss economy.  Australian Rate Decision  Australia ’s central bank today kept  interest rates 
unchanged at a developed-world high, citing a domestic expansion
that’s also weathering the global slowdown. The local currency
touched the strongest in 4 1/2 months.  Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board left the overnight
cash-rate target at a 2 1/2-year low of 3.5 percent for a second
month, the  Reserve Bank  of Australia said in a statement. Policy
makers lowered rates by 1.25 percentage points from November to
June, leaving borrowing costs “a little below their medium-term
averages,” Stevens said.  In the U.S., confidence among chief executive officers
declined in the second quarter as more business leaders said
economic conditions will worsen in the next six months, a
private survey showed.  The Young Presidents’ Organization sentiment index fell to
60 in the second quarter from 65.1 in previous three months, the
largest decline since the survey began in 2009. Readings greater
than 50 show the outlook was more positive than negative.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  