-- Syria Summons Cabinet After Prime Minister’s Defection
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-08-07T13:51:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/syria-summons-cabinet-after-prime-minister-s-defection.html
Syria ’s new interim premier met his
Cabinet after Prime Minister Riad Hijab disappeared in what
rebels said was his defection to the opposition.  Omar Ghalawanji, the acting premier, met ministers
yesterday, the  Syrian Arab News Agency  reported. Information
Minister Omran al-Zoubi indirectly confirmed Hijab’s departure,
saying that anyone who fled the country and illegitimately
abandoned a government post showed a lack of political and
national awareness, the state-run  news agency  reported.  “We haven’t heard anything from the former Prime Minister
and he didn’t appear on TV or said anything,” al-Zoubi told the
agency. Al-Zoubi also rejected reports that other ministers had
left Syria and said they all attended the Cabinet session.  Hijab’s defection marked the highest-ranking departure
since the uprising against Assad began last year and was the
most serious blow to the Syrian authorities since last month,
when a bomb attack in Damascus killed key members of the
military establishment, including Assad’s brother-in-law, Assef Shawkat.  President Bashar al-Assad met the head of  Iran ’s Supreme
National Security Council,  Saeed Jalili , in Damascus, today
Iran’s state-run Mehr news agency said.  Targeting Syria  “Enemies” are targeting Syria and “we shouldn’t allow
them to make up for losing on the resistance front by taking it
out on the Syrian people,” Jalili said, according to Mehr.  Assad, whose country is Iran’s closest Arab ally, said the
intervention of foreigners who back “terrorism” in Syria by
sending arms to the rebels is unacceptable, the agency said.  Government troops clashed with rebels in Damascus’ Rukn
Eddine neighborhood, Aleppo, Homs, Daraa and other areas,
inflicting heavy losses, Sana reported.  At least 100 people died across Syria today, including 26
in Damascus and its suburbs and 23 in Aleppo, the opposition
Local Coordination Committees said in an e-mail.  Hijab left the country with three other cabinet ministers,
Colonel Riad al-Asaad, commander of the Free Syrian Army, said
in interview from the Turkish-Syrian border yesterday. The
 Associated Press  reported that a Jordanian official, whose name
it withheld, confirmed that Hijab defected with his family.
Syria says Hijab was dismissed.  ’Ongoing Slaughter’  “That the titular head of the Syrian government has
rejected the ongoing slaughter being carried out at Assad’s
direction only reinforces that the Assad regime is crumbling
from within,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney  told
reporters yesterday.  Hijab, who was a member of the ruling Baath party, comes
from Syria’s majority Sunni community whose members make up much
of the armed opposition, while Assad is a representative of the
minority Alawite sect, an offshoot of Shiite Islam. Formerly
agriculture minister, Hijab was elevated to the prime minister’s
post in a June government shakeup with which Assad sought to
thwart growing opposition by promising changes in government.  Syria has “sufficient human resources to cover the posts
of all those who flee,” Sana quoted al-Zoubi as saying.  Planned Defection  The former premier has joined the opposition, said Mohammed
el-Etri, described on  Al Jazeera  as Hijab’s spokesman. The
defection had been planned for months in conjunction with the
Free Syrian Army and also involved the departure from the
country of 10 families of Hijab’s relatives, el-Etri told the
channel.  Brigadier General Manaf Tlas, a  Sunni Muslim  and childhood
friend of Assad, was previously the most prominent defector from
the president’s political circle. Formerly a commander in the
elite Republican Guard, Tlas is the son of ex-Defense Minister
Mustapha Tlas. Syria’s ambassador to  Iraq , Nawaf al-Fares,
joined the opposition in July.  The U.S.,  Turkey ,  Saudi Arabia  and other nations are trying
to help broker the creation of a broad transitional council to
prevent a bloody sectarian conflict from erupting after Assad,
according to two U.S. officials involved in Syrian policy.  The concern is that some members of the opposition, joined
by ordinary Syrians, would seek revenge against Assad’s Sunni,
Christian, and Alawite supporters, forcing them to flee or
fight. Such a dead-end conflict, both officials said, probably
would create more room for Islamic extremists to enter, and also
threaten to destabilize Jordan, Lebanon, and perhaps Iraq.  More than 10,000 people have died during the conflict,
according to United Nations estimates, while the opposition
group Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights  puts the death toll at
more than 21,000.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Riyadh at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  