-- U.K. Stocks Rise to Highest in Four Months
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-08-07T16:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/u-k-stocks-erase-advance-standard-chartered-sinks.html
U.K. stocks  rose to their highest
level in four months, as mining companies advanced and investors
speculated that global central banks will introduce measures to
stimulate economic growth.  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  advanced 1.6 percent after reporting first-half
net income that beat analysts’ estimates.  Evraz Plc (EVR)  posted the
biggest gain on the benchmark FTSE 100 Index, surging 10
percent.  Standard Chartered  plummeted 16 percent, its biggest
drop in 24 years, as a New York regulator warned that it may
suspend the bank’s U.S. unit from doing business in the state.  The FTSE 100 increased 32.47 points, or 0.6 percent, to
5,841.24 at the close in  London , its highest since April 2. The
equity benchmark has  climbed 11 percent from its 2012 low on
June 1  as European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged
to preserve the euro. The broader FTSE All-Share Index added 0.5
percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index retreated 1 percent.  “The troubles of Standard Chartered aside, today has had
little action of note,” said Chris Beauchamp, market analyst at
IG Index in London. “Expectations of coming central bank action
continue to hold markets up.”  In the U.S., Federal  Reserve Bank  of Boston President  Eric Rosengren  said the central bank should pursue a quantitative
easing program of “substantial magnitude” to stimulate growth
and hiring amid a global slowdown. The Fed should base its
guidance on the economic outcomes it seeks and focus on buying
more mortgage-backed securities, Rosengren said on CNBC.  U.K. Manufacturing  U.K. industrial production  fell 2.5 percent in June,
according to a report from the  Office for National Statistics .
That was narrower than the 3.5 percent decline that economists
had forecast. The ONS said the impact of today’s report is a
0.07 percentage point upward revision to the published figures
for the U.K.’s second-quarter gross domestic product.  Xstrata gained 1.6 percent to 896.9 pence after the company
posted first-half net income of $1.94 billion. That exceeded the
 average analyst estimate  of $1.49 billion in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Evraz jumped 10 percent to 276.9 pence, while  Glencore
International Plc (GLEN)  added 2.4 percent to 336.6 pence. Vedanta
Resources Plc climbed 2.4 percent to 1,007 pence. A gauge of
U.K. mining companies increased 1.9 percent.  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Europe’s second-biggest oil producer , climbed 2.9
percent to 453.8 pence as oil rose for a third day in New York.  InterContinental Hotels Group Plc (IHG)  surged 6.4 percent to
1,725 pence. The world’s largest provider of hotel rooms
reported a 6 percent gain in first-half operating profit and
said it will return $1 billion to shareholders through  a special
dividend  and a share buyback.  Standard Chartered  Standard Chartered plunged 16 percent to 1,228.5 pence, its
biggest slide since at least September 1988. Analysts at
brokerages from Nomura Holdings Inc. to Bank of America Corp.
downgraded the  lenders’ shares .  New York ’s Department of Financial Services said yesterday
that Standard Chartered conducted $250 billion of transactions
with Iranian banks over seven years. That violated federal
money-laundering laws, the regulator said.  “It’s bad news for banks once again, as the daggers are
out for Standard Chartered, with the U.S. regulators flexing
their muscles,” said Simon Denham, managing director of Capital
Spreads in London. “It is yet another chapter in a very long
book of the banking sector’s woes.”  Elan Corp. tumbled 8.7 percent to 8.43 euros in Dublin
trading. The  Irish drugmaker  said that it will take a charge of
$117.3 million this quarter after it wrote down to zero the
value of its venture with Johnson & Johnson to develop an
Alzheimer’s treatment. The drug, bapineuzumab, failed for a
second time in a clinical trial.  The volume of shares changing hands on the  FTSE 100 (UKX)  was 3.8
percent lower than the average of the last 30 days, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  