-- U.K. June Production Data May Lead to Upward Revision to GDP
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-08-07T11:02:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/u-k-industrial-output-falls-less-than-estimated-in-gdp-report.html
U.K.  industrial output  fell less than
estimated in June, indicating the recession may not have been as
deep in the second quarter as previously reported.  Production dropped 2.5 percent from May due to the extra
public holiday for the queen’s Jubilee, the  Office for National
Statistics  said today in London. That’s smaller than the drop
estimated in the second-quarter  gross-domestic-product data , and
the ONS said today’s numbers may mean a 0.07 percentage point
upward revision to the 0.7 percent GDP decline.  Britain’s recession has worsened as the government’s
austerity program and the euro-area debt crisis undermined
confidence and curbed demand. The Bank of  England , which
maintained its  current stimulus program  last week, will probably
cut its U.K. economic outlook when it publishes new forecasts
tomorrow, according to a survey of economists.  “Any upward GDP revisions could provide a modest boost to
sentiment and would be welcome news for the government,”
London-based HSBC Holdings Plc economists John Zhu and Simon Wells wrote in a note to clients today. “However, even if these
upward revisions do happen, the news for policymakers may not be
huge, and the U.K. would still be stagnating.”  The monthly drop in industrial output was the biggest since
November 2008. Still, it was less than the 3.5 percent  median
forecast  of 30 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Quarterly Decline  The pound erased its decline against the euro after the
report. It was up 0.2 percent at 79.30 pence per euro at 12 p.m.
 London  time, after weakening as much as 0.1 percent before the
data were published. Britain’s currency traded at $1.5654
against the dollar, up 0.3 percent from yesterday. The yield on
the 10-year gilt rose 3 basis points to 1.53 percent.  In the second quarter, production fell 0.9 percent compared
with the first three months of the year, the statistics office
said. That compares with a 1.3 percent decline in production for
the period estimated in the GDP data on July 25.  Today’s report also showed that  manufacturing  fell 2.9
percent in June from May, less than the 4.3 percent forecast of
economists in a survey. In the three months through June,
factory output slipped 0.9 percent from the previous quarter.  From a year earlier, both industrial production and
manufacturing fell 4.3 percent, the biggest annual declines
since October 2009.  Out of 13 manufacturing categories, six rose in June and
seven declined, the ONS said. The drop was led by basic metals
and metal products, as well as rubber and plastics.  Weakness Persists  Today’s data “does not fundamentally change the story of a
struggling economy,” said  Howard Archer , an economist at IHS
Global Insight in London. “The manufacturing sector is
continuing to find life very difficult in the face of strong
domestic and global headwinds.”  A  survey last week  indicated the weakness in manufacturing
continued into the third quarter, with factory output shrinking
the most in more than three years in July. A separate report
showed services, the largest part of the economy, grew the least
in 19 months.  Britvic Plc (BVIC) , the maker of Robinson’s fruit drinks, said
last month that full-year results will be “at the bottom end”
of analysts’ estimates. The company said business sentiment
hadn’t improved since May, citing unseasonably wet weather and
“weak consumer sentiment.”  The  Bank of England  kept its bond-purchase target at $375
billion pounds ($587 billion) and its  benchmark interest rate  at
a record-low 0.5 percent on Aug. 2. All 16 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey say the central bank will lower its 2012
economic outlook tomorrow, while all but one see a reduction in
the 2013 projections. A majority also forecast a cut to the
central bank’s inflation projections.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  