-- U.S. Stock-Index Futures Rise; Tyson Foods Gains
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-08-07T11:37:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/u-s-stock-index-futures-advance-coca-cola-climbs.html
U.S. stock-index futures advanced,
indicating the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index will extend a three-
month high, as weak economic data from  Europe  led some investors
to speculate policy makers will announce stimulus measures.  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) , the largest U.S. meat processor, gained
1.3 percent in early  New York  trading Stephens Inc upgraded its
recommendation for the stock.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) 
dropped after the companies ended most plans to develop an
Alzheimer’s drug.  Futures on S&P 500  expiring in September rose 0.4 percent
to 1,395 at 7:33 p.m. in New York. The benchmark measure has
gained in the past four weeks as central banks took steps to
boost economic growth and corporate earnings beat estimates. Dow
Jones Industrial Average futures added 36 points, or 0.3
percent, to 13,103 today.  “The current thoughts are that the European situation is
finally coming to a head and the strong U.S. jobless figures
from last week add to the optimism,” said  Richard Hunter , head
of equities at  Hargreaves Lansdown (HL/)  Stockbrokers in  London . Weak
data from Europe will “prove positive in increasing the
likelihood of definite action from the European authorities.”  German  factory orders  declined more than twice as much as
economists forecast in June as sales to euro-area countries
slumped. Orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation,
dropped 1.7 percent from May, when they rose 0.7 percent, the
Economy Ministry in Berlin said today. Economists forecast a 0.8
percent decline, according to the median of 35 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Italy’s economy contracted for a fourth straight quarter in
the three months through June as manufacturing slumped and the
euro-area debt crisis intensified.  Tyson Gains  Tyson Foods rose 1.3 percent to $14.36 in early New York
trading after the stock was upgraded to overweight, the
equivalent of buy, from equalweight, at Stephens.  East West Bancorp Inc. (EWBC)  may fall in New York trading after
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  downgraded the stock to equalweight, a
recommendation similar to hold, from overweight.  Pfizer dropped 2.3 percent to $23.70 in early New York
trading and Johnson & Johnson slid 0.8 percent to $68.31 in
 Germany  after the world’s largest drugmaker and the biggest
health-care products maker, along with Elan Corp., gave up on an
Alzheimer’s drug after a second trial failure.  Bapineuzumab, designed to attack the brain plaques that
serve as a hallmark of Alzheimer’s, failed to improve symptoms
of dementia in the second of four final-stage trials of the
drug, Pfizer and J&J said yesterday in statements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  