-- U.S. Chief Executives Less Confident on Economy, Survey Shows
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   F a i r c h i l d
-- 2012-08-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/u-s-chief-executives-less-confident-on-economy-survey-shows.html
Confidence among U.S. chief executive
officers declined in the second quarter as more business leaders
said economic conditions will worsen in the next six months, a
private survey showed.  The Young Presidents’ Organization sentiment index fell to
60 in the second quarter from 65.1 in previous three months, the
largest decline since the survey began in 2009. Readings greater
than 50 show the outlook was more positive than negative.  “High  gas prices , ongoing woes in  Europe , and reduced
growth in  Asia ,  China  in particular, no doubt dampened CEO
optimism in the latest survey,” Stephen Slifer, YPO Global
Pulse economic adviser and chief economist at NumberNomics, said
in a statement. “The results seem to be pointing toward slower
growth ahead and not a global contraction.”  Thirty-seven percent of executives surveyed said the
current economy has improved from six months ago, down from 60
percent who said so in the first quarter. Eighteen percent said
the economy will worsen, up from 7 percent in the prior survey.  Gross domestic product, the value of all goods and services
produced, rose at a 1.5 percent annual rate in the second
quarter, according to Commerce Department data. Household
purchases, which account for about 70 percent of the economy,
grew at the slowest pace in a year. Forty percent of chief
executives in the YPO survey saw conditions improving in the
next six months, down from 56 percent.  Sales Outlook  The Dallas-based group’s outlooks for sales and hiring also
cooled. The gauge of sales in the coming 12 months fell to 66.7
last quarter from 71.  The YPO’s employment index dropped in the second quarter to
59.1 from 61.6 the previous three months. A measure of  capital
spending  declined four points from 63 to 59.  Companies hired more workers than forecast in July, a Labor
Department report showed last week. The  unemployment rate ,
derived from a separate survey, rose to 8.3 percent.  The U.S. recorded the biggest drop in the latest survey
among the nine regions of the world. The YPO’s Global Confidence
Index decreased 4.1 points to 59.7. Sentiment among executives
in the European Union, the lowest in the global survey, dropped
2.8 points to 52.  The nonprofit service organization’s findings for the U.S.
were based on responses from 1,659 global chief executives,
including 664 in the U.S., to an electronic survey conducted
during the first two weeks of July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Fairchild in Washington at 
 Cfairchild2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  