-- Strike the Haqqani Terror Network’s Wallet
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-07T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/u-s-should-strike-haqqani-terror-network-s-wallet.html
In confirmation hearings last week,
Richard Olson, President  Barack Obama ’s  nominee for ambassador 
to Pakistan, said his top priority would be working with the
Pakistanis to degrade the Taliban-allied Haqqani network.  With good reason, the U.S. considers the Haqqani network to
be the greatest threat to international and local forces in
 Afghanistan . Its trademark is suicide attacks, like those last
September in Kabul on the U.S. Embassy and the headquarters of
NATO-led international troops. Much of the Haqqanis’ success
owes to the haven that the group enjoys in North Waziristan,
part of Pakistan’s semi-autonomous tribal region.  Unfortunately, the odds of getting the Pakistanis to crack
down are slim. Like the Americans, they have a  history  with the
group; both supported its founder,  Jalaluddin Haqqani , and his
followers in the 1980s against the Soviets, who then occupied
Afghanistan. Unlike the Americans, though, the Pakistanis have
kept up their ties and regard the group as key to their future -
- insurance that the government of Afghanistan’s president,
 Hamid Karzai , won’t get powerful enough to gang up with  India 
against Pakistan, which sits between the two. That scenario
might sound far-fetched, but it’s real to Pakistanis.  Anyway, Pakistan is not in a particularly appeasing  mood .
It only recently reopened its roads to allow the resupply of
international forces in Afghanistan after the U.S. belatedly
apologized for accidentally killing 24 Pakistani soldiers near
the border last November.  Although the U.S. can’t count on  Pakistan  as a partner, it
can do more to combat the Haqqanis on its own. Last month, the
House and Senate passed a resolution urging the State Department
to add the network to the U.S. list of foreign terrorist
organizations. The president should overcome his hesitation and
sign the measure so that it takes force.  The administration has been reluctant to go that route
because it fears foreclosing the chance that the Haqqanis will
join the suspended Afghan national-reconciliation effort. The
U.S. hopes that process will produce a political settlement
before its last troops are scheduled to leave Afghanistan in
2014.  Without a terrorist designation, however, the U.S. has
little power to disrupt the Haqqani network’s well-established
 fundraising  in  Saudi Arabia  and other Persian Gulf countries.
The U.S. has  sanctioned  a handful of Haqqani leaders, freezing
any assets they hold under U.S. jurisdiction and prohibiting
Americans from doing business with them.  Labeling the group as
terrorist  would bar Americans from supplying the group with
money and, more important, require financial institutions to
block all funds in which it has an interest. The  U.S. Treasury 
has enforced the latter ban in previous cases by threatening to
shun any bank that handles such transactions, an action that has
cut into the earnings of other terrorist organizations, notably
al-Qaeda.  The Haqqanis wouldn’t like this, but that wouldn’t
necessarily decrease the odds of their joining a reconciliation
process. Like the Taliban, they will agree to a political
settlement when they are sufficiently weakened or they calculate
it is in their interests. Cutting into their funds could hasten
that determination.  In any case, the prospect of reconciliation hasn’t
inhibited the Haqqanis from killing Americans, who are likewise
killing Haqqanis. In that deadly context, throttling their
funding seems both sensible and appropriate.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why  German bailout fears  are
overblown;  Margaret Carlson  on the  Tea Party’s Senate takeover ;
Clive Crook on why  debt forgiveness still makes sense ;  Edward
Glaeser  on why  parking lots for public housing  make everyone
poorer;  Peter Orszag  on the beauty of  Build America Bonds ; Meir
Javedanfar on the price of chicken and  economic hardship in
Iran ; Caleb Scharf on clues to the  behavior of black holes .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 