-- NFL, Major League Baseball Sue N.J. Over Sports Betting
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-08-07T20:25:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/u-s-professional-college-sports-leagues-sue-n-j-over-betting.html
Four U.S. professional sports
organizations, including the  National Football League  and  Major
League Baseball , sued to block sports wagering in New Jersey,
saying it would raise doubts about the integrity of games.  The leagues seek to block a law signed by Governor
Christopher Christie in January that would permit gambling at
racetracks and Atlantic City casinos on professional and college
sports. The  National Hockey League ,  National Basketball
Association  and  National Collegiate Athletic Association  joined
the complaint filed today in federal court in Trenton.  “Sports gambling in New Jersey would irreparably harm
amateur and professional sports by fostering suspicion that
individual plays and final scores of games may have been
influenced by factors other than honest competition,” the
leagues said in the complaint.  Christie, a first-term Republican, has said he wants to
bring sports wagering to  New Jersey  by November without seeking
approval from federal regulators. A 1992 U.S. law bans betting
in all but four states: Nevada,  Delaware , Montana and  Oregon .  “The voters of New Jersey said they wanted to allow sports
gambling,” Christie told reporters today in Trenton. “I think
we’re going to win. I don’t believe the federal government has
the right to decide that only certain states can have sports
gambling. On what basis?”  The New Jersey governor also said there is illegal sports
gambling “going on in every state in America.”  “So why is this more injurious somehow than illegal sports
gambling to the operations of the league or NCAA?” he said.  Federal Law  The leagues and NCAA asked a U.S. judge to rule that New
Jersey’s law, and related regulations, violate the U.S.
Professional and Amateur Sports Protection Act of 1992. That law
gave New Jersey a chance between Jan. 1, 1993, and Jan. 1, 1994,
to enact sports betting. At the time, New Jersey declined.  The complaint seeks to bar New Jersey from implementing the
new law, as well as proposed regulations that were published on
July 2. The Division of Gaming Enforcement is asking for public
comments through Aug. 31. After that, regulators will accept
applications for licenses to engage in sports betting.  The leagues and NCAA “cannot be compensated in money
damages for the harm that sports gambling poses to the character
and integrity of their respective sporting events,” according
to the complaint.  “Once their reputations and goodwill have been
compromised, and the bonds of loyalty and devotion between fans
and teams have been broken, plaintiffs will have been
irreparably injured in a manner that cannot be measured in
dollars,” the complaint said.  Delaware passed a law in 2009 that allowed wagering on
single-game bets in all sports. The  U.S. Court of Appeals 
limited the law that year, allowing betting on at least three
NFL games.  The case is National Collegiate Athletic Association v.
Christie, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Trenton).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  