-- U.S. Needs to Be Much More Forgiving on Home Loans
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-08-07T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/u-s-needs-to-be-much-more-forgiving-on-home-loans.html
The housing market is where the Great
Recession started. It’s the main thing delaying recovery, and
the reason fiscal and monetary stimulus (traditional and modern)
haven’t worked better. The U.S. and U.K., especially, could have
done a lot about it, but chose not to.  Barack Obama ’s administration has finally decided to try
harder. It wants to encourage targeted debt forgiveness, but
it’s being blocked by the  Federal Housing Finance Agency , the
independent body that oversees  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac .
Edward DeMarco, acting director of the agency,  explained  his
objections in a letter to Congress on July 31. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  replied immediately, urging him to
 think again .  Let’s be clear about the context. The centrality of housing
finance is the critical lesson of the past four years. Loans
secured against housing drove prices to unsustainable highs.
When valuations dropped, families saw their savings disappear.
Millions moved from positive to negative net worth. This
leveraged collapse in wealth hit consumption and output directly
-- but that wasn’t the end.  Falling house prices and high debt combine to cause a
multiplier effect, according to a  study  of 99 housing busts in
25 countries by the International Monetary Fund’s economists. In
a housing bust with overborrowing, consumption falls four times
more than you would expect from lower  house prices  alone.  Uniquely Damaging  Crippled banks add to the problem; the surprising thing is,
they don’t account for all the difference. “The relationship
between  household debt  and the contraction in consumption also
holds for economies that did not experience a banking crisis
around the time of the housing bust,” the IMF says. A debt-
driven housing boom and bust is uniquely damaging even if banks
aren’t dragged down, too.  There’s more. Excessive debt is choking the recovery.
Borrowers are struggling to deleverage, and will be for years.
This absorbs some of the demand that fiscal stimulus would
otherwise have delivered.  What about monetary stimulus? Why haven’t lower interest
rates worked more powerfully -- especially long-term  interest
rates , where  quantitative easing  has pushed them down, like in
the U.S.? Again, look to the housing market.  Mortgage rates  have
fallen, but because lenders have suddenly decided to be careful,
struggling borrowers with fixed-rate mortgages can’t refinance.  You see the results. Borrowers can’t sell their houses to
move and find work because they are underwater, owing more on
their mortgages than their homes are worth. Others have fallen
behind on payments and face foreclosure, which leaves borrowers,
lenders and innocent bystanders all worse off. Millions of
houses are already in  foreclosure , blighting neighborhoods and
delaying a housing recovery. A “shadow inventory” of houses
still at risk of foreclosure overhangs the market.  Getting serious about debt forgiveness back in 2009 would
have made a big difference. Even now, with signs that house
prices are bottoming out in the U.S., it makes sense. The
 Federal Reserve  has called for principal reduction for
underwater borrowers. So has the IMF.  The point is, principal reduction can be win-win-win. The
losses that foreclosure and the threat of foreclosure create are
so great that the gains from avoiding it -- judiciously spread
around -- can make everybody better off. A partially forgiven
loan obviously makes the borrower better off. It can make the
lender better off, too, if the good new loan is worth more than
the about-to-go-bad one it replaces. Crucially, it can be in the
public interest as well, if it reduces the economic externality
of foreclosure blight and stops house prices undershooting.  Healthy Incentives  With the Treasury promising to pay Fannie and Freddie’s
extra administrative costs, plus a nice incentive on top, what’s
DeMarco’s problem with targeted loan reductions? He has several,
but the main one is the risk of “strategic default.” This danger
shouldn’t be dismissed. The FHFA is right to weigh it. But, as
the Treasury argues, its reasoning looks wrong.  The danger, according to DeMarco, is that underwater
borrowers who can afford to keep making their payments will try
to take advantage. “Will some percentage of borrowers who are
current on their loans be encouraged to either claim a hardship
or actually become delinquent to capture the benefits of
principal forgiveness?” the FHFA  asks . It thinks the risk is
especially high for Fannie and Freddie, because the new
forgiveness program would be publicly announced, government
endorsed and implemented systemwide.  I’d be surprised if strategic defaults were a serious
problem under the Treasury’s proposal. Actually, the danger
might go the other way. There’s a trade-off here. You can reduce
strategic defaults by targeting debt relief carefully, as the
Treasury intends -- but the more careful you try to be, the more
you’ll also rule out debt reductions that make good economic
sense. In other words, you can be too careful. Complex
eligibility requirements have hobbled the administration’s
previous mortgage-relief initiatives.  If anything, Geithner’s proposal for targeted forgiveness
risks making the same mistake. At any rate, the rules would mean
that no borrower could be certain in advance of getting a
reduction. Strategic default would therefore be risky. And the
Treasury is offering to go further: “We have indicated to FHFA
our willingness for [Fannie and Freddie] to include an asset
test or other type of hardship screen to maximize the likelihood
that only borrowers with genuine hardships receive principal
reduction.” This is cautious to a fault.  The administration should have pressed this issue to the
right conclusion years ago, but it’s not too late for targeted
debt relief to help speed the recovery. Geithner’s right.
DeMarco should think again.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how to fight the  Haqqani
terrorist network  and on why  German bailout fears  are overblown;
 Margaret Carlson  on the  Tea Party’s Senate takeover ;  Edward
Glaeser  on why  parking lots for public housing  make everyone
poorer;  Peter Orszag  on the beauty of  Build America Bonds ; Meir
Javedanfar on the price of chicken and  economic hardship in
Iran ; Caleb Scharf on clues to the  behavior of black holes .  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 