-- Hurdler Liu Xiang’s Shot at Olympic Redemption Ends in Agony
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-08-07T14:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/hurdler-liu-xiang-s-shot-at-olympic-redemption-ends-in-agony.html
Liu Xiang planted a kiss on what may
be the final hurdle of his Olympic career after he tripped and
fell in his second consecutive disaster on the track at the
 Summer games .  The Chinese athlete careered into the first hurdle of the
110-meter heat and limped down the track, kissing the last
hurdle before being helped into a wheelchair. Aries Merritt of
the U.S. ran the fastest opening heat time in history to make
the semifinals.  Jamaica’s Usain Bolt also returned to the track today,
strolling through to the semis of the 200 meters after
successfully defending his 100-meter title two days ago. He
commiserated with 29-year-old Liu, who had also bowed out in the
2008 Beijing games with an Achilles injury.  “It must be hard for that to happen for the second time in
a row,” Bolt told reporters in  London . “He’s a true champion.
It’s so sad for him.”  Liu, who won gold in  Athens  in 2004, also took silver at
the 2011 world championships and had run the second-fastest time
this year.  “It’s a shame it happened to Liu,” said Merritt, whose
13.07-second win was the seventh fastest ever. “I don’t think
anything was wrong before the race. He looked OK. You make a
mistake, you’re out of the game.”  Injury Problems  Liu’s face was one of the most widely seen in the buildup
to the Beijing games, where concerns over his fitness dominated
the news. He had surgery in the U.S. and returned to the sport
in 2010 after changing his technique out of the blocks. He’s
been hampered by back and foot complaints in the past month, and
had his right Achilles taped up today before starting the race.  Bolt, in the 200 meters, was able to slow down, look around
and check the position of his rivals before crossing the line in
20.39 seconds. The Jamaican set a record for that distance in
Beijing, before trimming his time further to 19.19 seconds at
the 2009 world championships.  Bolt’s training partner Yohan Blake, who beat his
compatriot in the Jamaican trials ahead of the Olympics, also
made it through to tomorrow’s semifinals, as did  Europe ’s
fastest man, Christophe Lemaitre of  France , and the U.S.’s
Wallace Spearmon, Isiah Young and Maurice Mitchell. The final is
on Aug. 9.  The semifinals and final of the 110-meter hurdles take
place tomorrow night.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  