-- Usain Bolt Wants Manchester Utd. Trial, Sun Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-08-07T07:18:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/usain-bolt-wants-manchester-utd-trial-sun-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Bolt Wants Trial  Usain Bolt, who retained his Olympic 100-meter title two
days ago, said he fancies the chance of a try out with
 Manchester United  and considers himself a good enough player to
make the 19-time English champion’s squad, the  Sun reported .  “People think I am joking, but if  Alex Ferguson  called me
up and said, ‘OK let’s do this, come and have a trial’, it would
be impossible for me to say no,” the Sun cited Bolt, 25, as
saying. “I would not take up the challenge if I didn’t think I
was good enough. I am a very accomplished player and know I
could make a difference.”  United Outbid  Manchester United has been outbid by Paris Saint-Germain in
its attempt to sign Brazilian midfielder Lucas Moura from  Sao
Paulo , the  Daily Mail reported .  Moura’s representatives are said to be ready to agree on a
35 million-pound ($54.5 million) deal with the French club, the
Mail added. Sao Paulo had been poised to accept United’s offer
of 30 million pounds, the newspaper said.  Agger Inquiry  Liverpool told  Manchester City  that defender  Daniel Agger 
will cost at least 22 million pounds after the Premier League
champion made an inquiry about the Denmark international, the
 Guardian reported .  City values Agger, who has two years remaining on his
Liverpool contract, at about 18 million pounds, though is yet to
submit a formal offer, the newspaper added.  Cazorla Joins Camp  Spanish midfielder Santi Cazorla was granted permission to
join Arsenal at its pre-season training camp in  Germany  even
though his proposed 20 million-pound transfer from Malaga is yet
to be completed, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Cazorla, 27, is set to move for a basic fee of 16 million
pounds plus add-ons and could make his Arsenal debut against
Cologne on Aug. 12, the newspaper added.  Allen Talks  Swansea manager Michael Laudrup plans to speak with
Liverpool target  Joe Allen  tomorrow to discuss whether the 22-
year-old midfielder wants to stay with the Welsh club, the  Daily
Express reported .  “On Wednesday he will be back in training with the other
two guys who have been at the Olympics and then we will have
some talks,” the Express cited Laudrup as saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  