-- Wal-Mart Like Gold as Investors Seek Safety From Slowing Growth
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-08-07T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/wal-mart-like-gold-as-investors-seek-safety-from-slowing-growth.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  is the new gold.  The world’s largest retailer is attracting investors who
see its shares as a safe haven amid a slowing global economy and
volatile  growth stocks . With U.S. same-store sales improving
after nine straight quarters of declines, investors are betting
consumers will continue seeking deals at Wal-Mart and have
driven the shares up 24 percent this year.  As a result, late last month Wal-Mart briefly became the
world’s third most valuable company before slipping back into
fourth place behind PetroChina Co. Wal-Mart fell 0.4 percent to
$74.28 yesterday at the close in  New York .  Now some investors are asking how much higher the shares
can go. When consumers become more confident and middle-market
retailers regain traction, investors may start looking
elsewhere, according to  David Abella , a portfolio manager with
Rochdale Investment Management.  “In some sense, it is like gold,” Abella said in a
telephone interview. “It’s a safe bet in an economy like this.
If you start to see other retailers do well or consumers appear
more confident, then it is time to take gains and get out.”  The economy is recovering more slowly than some investors
expected and some fear a renewed downturn, said Abella, who is
based in New York. While that is not the likely outcome, when
investors get nervous, Wal-Mart  shares  go up, he said.  The Rochdale Dividend & Income Portfolio fund owns 57,000
Wal-Mart shares, making the holding the fund’s fourth largest.
Abella said he plans to hold the shares because Wal-Mart’s
performance has been fundamentally sound and he expects the
economy to remain sluggish this year. If the stock rises, he may
sell, he said.  Market Capitalization  Wal-Mart’s market capitalization raced past  China Mobile
Ltd. (941)  in May, then passed  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) 
in June and then slid ahead of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and PetroChina to
third before falling back to fourth behind Apple Inc. and Exxon
Mobil Corp. With a value of $251.3 billion, Wal-Mart is worth
the most since March 2004.  All of that happened after Wal-Mart said it would cooperate
with investigations by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and  Department of Justice  into allegations that the
retailer systematically bribed Mexican officials to open stores
more quickly.  The investigations became public in April. Investors seem
to think that the bribery probe will not affect earnings in the
near term, Abella said.  More Upside  Wal-Mart’s price-to-earnings ratio reached a peak of 16.8
in 2008, said  Colin McGranahan , an analyst with New York-based
research firm Sanford Bernstein & Co. The stock trades at 16.2
times earnings now, implying there is a little more upside to
the shares, McGranahan said in a telephone interview.  The share performance partly reflects Wal-Mart’s efforts to
reclaim its role as a one-stop shopping destination by adding
merchandise, working to keep it in stock and lowering costs so
it can offer deal-hungry customers lower prices.  Sales rose 8.5 percent in the first quarter to $113
billion. Net  income  rose 10 percent to $3.74 billion. U.S. same-
store sales rose 2.6 percent.  Even so, some investors are waiting to see more improvement
before buying the shares, said  Brian Sozzi , an analyst with New
York research firm Decoding  Wall Street . Sozzi told clients to
get out of the stock on July 30. He’s waiting for the shares to
drop before recommending investors start buying again, he said
in a telephone interview.  “If we get a sell-off, that could be interesting,” Sozzi
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  