-- Warner Chilcott Ends Sale Effort, Announces Dividend
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2012-08-08T20:13:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/warner-chilcott-ends-effort-to-sell-itself-announces-dividend.html
Warner Chilcott Plc (WCRX) , a drugmaker
specializing in women’s health and dermatology, declined the
most in nine months after it ended efforts to find a buyer.  Warner Chilcott fell 6.9 percent to $16.54 at the close of
New York trading, its biggest one-day decline since Nov. 9. The
drugmaker said in April it was weighing options including a
possible sale. Bloomberg News reported the Dublin-based company
had received interest from strategic and private-equity buyers.  “Multiple parties expressed what I would describe as bona
fide interest in acquiring Warner Chilcott,” said Chief
Financial Officer Paul Herendeen, who wasn’t more specific about
the possible buyers. “We concluded that this is a better
pathway to the creation of long-term  shareholder value ,” he
said on a conference call today.  Warner Chilcott will renew a $250 million share buyback
program and expects to pay a special cash dividend of $4, the
drugmaker said yesterday in a statement. The drugmaker also
repeated its previously announced annual forecast of $3.55 to
$3.65 a share and said it expects to begin paying a regular
dividend twice a year.  Stalled Attempts  “It seemed clear that the attempts to be bought by someone
had stalled,” said James Molloy, an analyst with San Francisco-
based ThinkEquity LLC. The drugmaker paid a special $8.50
dividend in 2010, so Molloy said he wasn’t that surprised by the
announcement.  “It’s certainly a play they’ve used before,” he said
yesterday.  Warner Chilcott  will not disclose names or details about
groups that expressed interest in buying the company, Herendeen
said on the call.  “We continue to actively pursue opportunities to build and
improve our company through acquisitions of products,
acquisitions of product rights and acquisition of companies,”
Herendeen said.  Warner Chilcott expects to fund the special dividend with
available cash and $600 million in new debt, the company said in
the statement. The company plans to pay out a regular yearly
dividend of 50 cents a year in two annual installments, subject
to review each year.  Warner Chilcott shares rose 17 percent this year through
yesterday.  A group including Thomas H. Lee Partners LP, Bain Capital
LLC, and the buyout units of JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Credit
Suisse Group AG took the drugmaker private in 2005 for about 1.6
billion pounds ($2.1 billion) and brought it public again in
2006. Credit Suisse sold its stake in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in  New York  at 
 jsmialek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  