-- Wells Fargo Doubles Projected Cost of Refinance Program
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-08-07T19:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/wells-fargo-boosts-lost-income-forecast-for-refinancing-program.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest U.S.
mortgage lender, said a refinancing program may cut so-called
lifetime interest income by as much as $1.7 billion, more than
double what the firm estimated three months ago.  The new estimate of lost interest income from the program,
part of a settlement of state and federal loan-servicing probes,
climbed from the firm’s $720 million forecast in May, Wells
Fargo said today in a quarterly filing. As many as 40,000
borrowers represent $8 billion in unpaid principal balance that
may be refinanced by the bank under the program, up from a
projection of 20,000 borrowers and $4 billion three months ago.  The estimates “exceed the amounts that would result from
just meeting our minimum commitments under the program due to
the significantly higher than expected response we have received
from our customers,” the San Francisco-based bank said.  The program is part of a $25 billion mortgage settlement
signed in February by five banks, including Wells Fargo, with 49
states and the federal government. The accord, the largest
federal-state civil settlement in U.S. history, ended a 16-month
probe of abusive foreclosure practices stemming from the housing
collapse. The banks committed $20 billion in mortgage relief
plus payments of $5 billion to state and federal governments.  The program may cut  interest income  each year by as much
$215 million at Wells Fargo, up from a forecast of $100 million
in the filing three months ago. The fair value of loans involved
may be reduced by as much $1.7 billion, an increase over the
$700 million reduction forecast in May.  Wells Fargo erased gains of as much as 1.2 percent, falling
2 cents to $33.98 at 3:17 p.m. in  New York  trading, the third-
worst performance in the 24-company KBW Bank Index, after
Regions Financial Corp. and Capital One Financial Corp.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the second-biggest  U.S. bank  by
assets, said its share of the program may shrink annual interest
income by as much as $130 million, the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based lender said in a quarterly filing last week. As
many as 25,000 loans with unpaid principal of $6.8 billion may
be affected.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  