-- Twenty Five U.S. Senators Ask EPA to Adjust Ethanol Mandate
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2012-08-07T22:57:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/twenty-five-u-s-senators-ask-epa-to-adjust-ethanol-mandate-1-.html
Twenty-five U.S. senators including
 Dianne Feinstein  asked the Environmental Protection Agency to
adjust the country’s ethanol mandate, adding to calls for the
Obama Administration to take action.  In a letter today, the bipartisan group of senators urged
EPA Administrator  Lisa Jackson  to use her waiver authority
because of the record corn prices caused by the most severe U.S.
drought in 56 years. Ethanol will be produced from 38 percent of
this upcoming year’s crop, down from 41 percent last year,
according to government estimates.  Today’s letter follows an Aug. 1 petition from a coalition
of 156 representatives in the House of Representatives that
asked Jackson to lower or suspend the U.S. requirement, known as
the Renewable Fuels Standard or RFS, to use 13.2 billion gallons
of ethanol in gasoline this year and 13.8 billion in 2013
because of the effect the drought will have on corn yields and
food prices.  “We ask you to adjust the corn grain ethanol mandate of
the RFS to reflect this natural disaster and those new market
conditions,” the senators wrote in today’s letter. “Doing so
will help to ease supply concerns and provide relief from high
corn prices.”  Corn for December delivery fell 4.5 cents, or 0.6 percent,
to $8.005 a bushel in Chicago. Futures rose to a record $8.205
on July 31.  Ethanol Falls  Denatured ethanol for September delivery fell 0.6 cent to
$2.572 a gallon on the Chicago Board of Trade. Prices have
gained 17 percent this year.  A telephone message left for  Matt Hartwig , spokesman for
the  Renewable Fuels Association , a Washington-based ethanol
trade group, after normal business hours wasn’t immediately
returned.  “Calls to waive any or all of the RFS from the livestock
lobby, oil industry or their allies in Congress are not only
premature, but void of justification,” Renewable Fuels
Association President and Chief Executive Officer Bob Dinneen
said in an Aug. 2 statement in response to last week’s letter.  Ethanol producers have responded to the record corn prices
by slashing  output  16 percent to 809,000 barrels a day in the
week ended July 27 from a record 963,000 on Dec. 30, according
to Energy Department data.  In 2008, Texas Governor  Rick Perry  submitted a waiver
request to the EPA on the mandate that was rejected. That year
 Arizona  Senator  John McCain , then the Republican candidate for
president, and other lawmakers asked the agency to adjust the
requirement because of higher corn prices.  Poet LLC, in  Sioux Falls , South Dakota, is the largest U.S.
ethanol producer, followed by  Archer Daniels Midland Co. (ADM)  in
Decatur, Illinois.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  