-- White House Defends Paid Speeches by Plouffe Amid New Questions
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-08-07T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/white-house-defends-paid-speeches-by-plouffe-amid-new-questions.html
The year before he joined the White
House staff, President  Barack Obama ’s senior adviser  David Plouffe  accepted hundreds of thousands of dollars in speaking
fees from organizations and companies with interests connected
to U.S. foreign policy, telecommunications, business and
regulation.  Plouffe disclosed 20 honoraria from 2010, totaling about
$500,000, in a federal financial disclosure report filed in
January 2011. The report also showed dozens of additional
speeches for which Plouffe was paid more than $5,000 for which
he wasn’t required to disclose the precise amounts or dates.  Plouffe declined to comment. The White House, which is
pressing Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  to release more of
his tax returns, wouldn’t provide details of Plouffe’s speaking
engagements beyond what was in listed in the disclosure forms.
For speeches before 2010, the forms required Plouffe only to
give the name of organizations that paid him more than $5,000.
Dates and amounts paid aren’t listed.  Republicans are highlighting one of the payments after the
Washington Post reported that Plouffe was paid $100,000 for two
speeches in Nigeria by a subsidiary of  MTN Group Ltd (MTN) , Africa’s
largest wireless operator, in December 2010. The Post said the
parent company has been under scrutiny by the U.S. because of
its dealings with Iran and Syria. There were no legal
restrictions on Plouffe’s speech, the Post said.  ‘Red Flags’  “Anytime you start talking about $100,000, red flags
should have gone up right away,” said  Craig Holman , government
affairs lobbyist at  Public Citizen , an advocacy group in
Washington. “He’d have to think about why is someone giving him
that kind of money for a speech.”  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said criticism of
Plouffe’s speeches before he joined the White House is
“misplaced.” He said Republicans didn’t criticize former
advisers to President  George W. Bush  for giving paid speeches to
companies that also had dealings with Iran.  “This is clearly politics,” he said of criticism from the
 Republican National Committee .  Honoraria from 2010 appearances reported by Plouffe also
included $12,000 each from the Credit Union National
Association, National Association for Home Care and Hospice,
 Boston Consulting Group , and $24,000 each from Fidelity
Investment Services and the Food Marketing Institute, which
represents food retailers and wholesalers.  Plouffe’s Speeches  The disclosure report did not describe the nature of
Plouffe’s presentations to each group. A brochure from the Food
Marketing Institute’s 2010 Midwinter Executive Conference said
Plouffe would speak as part of a session on how changing
demographics were shaping the economic and political landscape.  The disclosure form showed Plouffe also was paid $48,000
for speaking in Istanbul in March 1010 to  Turkcell Iletisim
Hizmetleri AS (TCELL) , another telecommunications company that sought
business in Iran and Syria. Turkcell, which was originally
awarded an Iranian mobile-phone license that later went to MTN,
sued MTN earlier this year for $4.2 billion in damages.  Romney is a past investor in Turkcell, according to a
financial disclosure form he filed last year, a fact highlighted
by Obama’s campaign organization. The shares, which have since
been sold, were held by a blind trust that Romney has said he
does not manage.  ‘Market Value’  Plouffe’s other paid speeches also raise questions about
what influence groups are seeking with the administration,
Holman said. “You either have a real lot of money to burn or
you’re trying to do  influence peddling ,” or both, he said of
the groups hiring speakers such as Plouffe.  Democratic strategist  James Carville  said $100,000 for two
speeches in Nigeria is “market value for somebody like David
Plouffe,” and “I’d say it if it were a Republican speaker,
too.”  Carville said that for many companies that pay such fees
for speakers, “What they’re usually looking for is not
political influence but to draw somebody who’d be of interest”
to their organization or clients.  The Washington Speakers Bureau, which represented Plouffe
and represents other former Obama and Bush administration
officials, didn’t return calls for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  