-- Two Senators Urge Raising Large-Bank Capital Demand
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-08-07T16:40:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/two-senators-urge-raising-large-bank-capital-demand.html
Two Senate Banking Committee
lawmakers sent a letter to Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  urging the central bank to require the largest U.S.
banks to hold more capital.  Senators  David Vitter , a Republican from  Louisiana , and
 Sherrod Brown , a Democrat from  Ohio , said regulators should
demand higher capital for globally systemically important
institutions and that the current proposed standards are a
’’baby step in the correct direction.’’  “You must have the board revisit the proposed rule to
implement Basel III and modify the rule to include a SIFI
surcharge significant enough to change the incentives for the
largest banks,” the senators wrote in their letter, dated
yesterday. The acronym “SIFI” refers to a a systemically
important financial institution whose failure could pose a
threat to financial stability.  The Basel committee published measures in 2010 to more than
triple the core-capital requirements of all internationally
active banks. A provisional list of 29 globally systemically
important financial institutions was produced last year that
authorities said should face capital surcharges of as much as
2.5 percent of their risk-weighted assets because their collapse
would have global ramifications.  Lenders Targeted  The lenders targeted for these surcharges and for
heightened supervision included Deutsche Bank AG, BNP Paribas SA
and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Vitter and Brown said the Basel rules should move on a
sliding scale with higher standards of capital and leverage for
the largest and most-complex banks. Bankers have argued that the
proposed Basel capital standards are already too high and would
restrict their ability to lend and grow.  “They are concerned about the impact of Basel and Dodd-
Frank on smaller banks,” said Joseph Engelhard, senior vice
president of Capital Alpha Partners LLC. “Unfortunately, I
don’t think this proposal would solve their perceived problem
and it would have significant unintended negative
consequences.”  Dodd-Frank is the financial overhaul law signed by
President  Barack Obama  in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  