-- Won Weakening to Samsung’s Kim as Rate Cut to Aid Growth
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-08-08T10:48:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/won-weakening-to-samsung-s-kim-as-rate-cut-to-aid-growth.html
South Korea  will probably cut
 interest rates  once more this year and let the won weaken to
keep pace with policy makers seeking to shore up economic
growth, according to the nation’s largest asset manager.  “The growth challenge for Korea is in front of us,” Kim Jun Sung, chief investment officer for equities at Samsung Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $100 billion, said in an
interview in  Seoul  yesterday. “There is a lot more room for
flexibility” for a weaker won, he said.  The Bank of Korea, which unexpectedly cut benchmark
borrowing costs on July 12, is likely to make another reduction
before December presidential elections to help support indebted
households, Kim said. Policy makers need to allow the won, which
has gained 1.5 percent against the dollar this quarter, to
weaken in the “short term” as Asian nations let currencies
fall to stay competitive, he said. South Korea depends on
exports for about half of gross domestic product.  Samsung Asset favors South Korean companies that are global
and taking market share such as  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and
 Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , Kim said. The nation’s benchmark  Kospi index 
has fallen 7.1 percent from its April 3 high, compared with an
8.3 percent drop in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index, as exports
slid almost 9 percent in July from a year ago and the central
bank forecast economic growth will slow to 3 percent this year
from the previous projection of 3.5 percent.  Beating Rivals  South Korea’s won fell as much as 0.2 percent today to
1,130.80 per dollar before settling little changed at 1,128.30,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The Kospi climbed 0.9 percent
to 1,903.23, the highest close since June 20.  “There are still opportunities for companies to grow,”
said Kim, 44, who worked for 10 years at  Government of Singapore
Investment Corp.  before taking the position at Samsung last
year. “Korean companies have been aggressive. They have been
becoming much more competitive.”  Samsung’s main equity  fund , Samsung For You  Korea 
Representative Securities Investment Trust 1, has lost 3 percent
in the past year, beating 94 percent of its peers, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Samsung’s flagship mutual bond fund,
Samsung ABF Korea Index Securities Investment Trust, returned
8.6 percent in the same period, outperforming 97 percent of its
peers, the data show.  South Korea’s benchmark three-year bond yields dropped 51
basis points since the end of June to 2.79 percent. The yields
touched a record-low of 2.76 percent on July 25.  The central bank lowered the  seven-day repurchase rate  25
basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, in July to 3 percent.
Inflation moderated to a 12-year low of 1.5 percent. Six of 16
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg predict the  Bank of Korea  will
cut the rate at a policy meeting tomorrow, while the rest
forecast no change. Kim said he expects policy makers to reduce
rates later in the year.  Won Forecast  The won will probably weaken 0.1 percent from yesterday’s
close to 1,130 per dollar by year-end, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  South Korea sent a combined 44 percent of its overseas
shipments to  China , U.S. and the European Union last year,
according to trade ministry data.  South Korea is “very late to the game” with rate cuts,
Kim said, after China lowered its benchmark rate twice this year
in June and July, while  Australia ’s central bank reduced
borrowing costs in May and June to support growth.  Exports from South Korea slid 8.8 percent in July from a
year earlier, the biggest decline since September 2009, while
consumer prices increased 1.5 percent, government data showed on
Aug. 1. South Korea’s economy grew at the slowest pace in almost
three years in the second quarter at 2.4 percent.  The Korean government is facing the same concern as other
export-dependent countries, which is that economic “growth is
becoming much more scarce,” Kim said.  A 66 percent increase in  home prices  in Seoul and
surrounding areas in the decade to February 2008 raised
 household debt  to record levels and triggered government
measures to cool the market. South Korean  consumer confidence 
dropped to the lowest level in five months in July as officials
cautioned that a protracted  European debt crisis  is hurting the
growth outlook for  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  