-- Xstrata’s First-Half Profit Falls on Weaker Metal Prices
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2012-08-07T16:06:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/xstrata-first-half-profit-falls-by-33-on-weaker-metal-prices.html
Xstrata Plc (XTA) , target of a $28 billion
takeover bid by  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , said first-half
profit dropped 33 percent after commodity prices declined.  Net income fell to $1.94 billion from $2.92 billion a year
earlier, the Zug, Switzerland-based company said today in a
statement. That beat the $1.49 billion average estimate of five
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales at the world’s largest
thermal-coal exporter slipped 7 percent to $15.6 billion.  “Our financial performance in the first half of the year
reflected a cyclical downturn in commodity prices and the
transition to our next generation of lower-cost mines,” Chief
Executive Officer  Mick Davis  said in the statement. “Commodity
prices fell significantly, in particular for nickel and zinc,
compared to the same period last year.”  Nickel prices sank 28 percent to average $18,438 a metric
ton, zinc fell 15 percent to $1,978 and copper slid 14 percent,
Xstrata said. The average price for  power-station coal  at
 Australia ’s Newcastle port, an Asian benchmark, dropped 17
percent to $103 a ton in the first half, according to McCloskey
Group data.  Xstrata was shielded in part by higher-priced annual
contracts with customers, it said today. Coal sales rose 14
percent to $4.77 billion, while operating profit for this
business advanced 1.8 percent to $1.11 billion.  Increased Tonnages  “A strong coal performance was driven by increased
tonnages from Mangoola and Rolleston enhancing unit costs,”
Liberum Capital Ltd. said in a note. “Overall coal unit costs
look to have fallen about 6.5 percent year-on-year.”  Xstrata rose 1.6 percent to 896.9 pence at the close in
 London . Glencore advanced 2.4 percent to 336.6 pence. The  FTSE
350 Mining Index (F3MNG)  added 1.9 percent.  Inflation in the industry pushed up costs by $386 million
compared with the year-earlier period, the company said.  “The inflation rate has decreased from the record levels
seen in recent years and is expected to moderate further in the
medium term as a result of mining companies delaying and
canceling investment decisions,” the company said.  Xstrata plans to raise total output 50 percent through 2014
to benefit from growing Asian demand for coal and metals.
Antapaccay, its copper project in  Peru , will begin production of
the metal in October, the company said. It also approved the
expansion of the McArthur River Mine’s zinc operations, more
than doubling output to 5.5 million tons a year.  Dividend Growth  “The bulk of the cashflow will go to the capex program to
deliver the 50 percent growth and a substantial portion of that
will also go to the payment of dividends,” Davis said in a
phone interview. “We are quite mindful of the need for our
shareholders to see some cash in their pockets as well.”  Xstrata increased its interim dividend by 8 percent to 14
cents a share. Net debt climbed by 40 percent to $11.36 billion
at the end of the first half.  Production of thermal coal climbed to 37.9 million tons in
the first half from 32.4 million tons a year earlier. Output of
copper cathode, the finished form of the metal, increased to
321,568 tons, while mined copper volumes declined 18 percent to
354,612 tons.  After cutting unit costs in real terms by a net $105
million in the first half, Xstrata plans to increase cost
savings for the year as a whole to $390 million.  Cut Investment  Xstrata lowered investment plans for 2012 by $1 billion to
$7.2 billion. It will defer $400 million of spending to next
year’s budget and the remaining $600 million to a later date,
without affecting the commissioning schedule of any approved
projects.  The company recorded an impairment charge of $514 million
in connection with the valuation of its 25 percent stake in
platinum producer  Lonmin Plc. (LMI)  Xstrata incurred costs of $21
million in the first half related to the proposed combination
with Glencore.  Xstrata and 34 percent shareholder Glencore have set Sept.
7 for a shareholder vote seeking backing for their all-stock
merger. The combination would create the fourth-largest mining
company by adding Xstrata’s copper, coal and zinc operations to
Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore’s trading and mining network.  ‘Great Position’  “Xstrata is in a great position to be a huge contributor
to the merged entity,” Davis said. “If for whatever reason the
merger doesn’t go through, it is well set to deliver value for
the shareholders based on its current trajectory.”  Glencore, which bid 2.8 of its shares for each one in
Xstrata, is under pressure from Xstrata investors, including 11-
percent shareholder Qatar Holding LLC, to raise its offer.  Standard Life Plc (SL/)  and  Schroders Plc (SDR)  also called for the
initial bid to be sweetened, bringing shareholders opposed to
the terms to more than 14 percent. A rejection of the bid by
16.48 percent is enough to block the deal because U.K. takeover
rules prevent Glencore using its stake in Xstrata to vote on the
transaction.  “Before these results we thought perhaps Glencore had a
stronger case to make at keeping up the merger ratio at 2.8
times,”  Jeff Largey , a mining analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd.
in London, said in an interview with with  Guy Johnson  on
Bloomberg Television. “Post these results I think the argument
must have swung a little bit in favour of the Qataris.”  Xstrata’s board has recommended shareholders approve the
offer, the largest deal announced so far this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Near term, we think that Xstrata shares will be less
driven by earnings and more by the market view on the proposed
combination with Glencore,” Jason Fairclough, an analyst at
Bank of America Corp., wrote in a note to clients. “We think
the rationale for the proposed merger is still compelling.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  