-- Euro Falls as German Exports Drop; Pound Drops Before BOE
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-08-08T08:46:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-07/yen-remains-weaker-as-yield-gap-widens-global-equities-advance.html
The euro fell against the dollar as
German exports dropped more than economists predicted in June,
adding to evidence that  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis is
harming the region’s largest economy.  Europe’s common currency also slipped against the yen
before a report economists said will show  industrial production 
slid in  Germany  and as Standard & Poor’s revised the outlook on
 Greece ’s sovereign rating to negative from stable. The pound
declined against the dollar amid speculation the  Bank of England 
will cut its inflation forecast after the recession worsened.
The yen gained against its 16 major counterparts.  “The bigger picture is what’s driving the euro, and we’ve
had no fresh developments there,”  Daragh Maher , a currency
strategist at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  in  London  said, referring to
efforts to resolve the euro-area turmoil. “There will be a bit
more focus on the industrial production data from Germany.”  The 17-nation euro slipped 0.2 percent to $1.2371 at 9:29
a.m. London time. It fell 0.5 percent to 97 yen. The Japanese
currency gained 0.3 percent to 78.38 per dollar after declining
0.5 percent yesterday.  German  exports  fell 1.5 percent from May, when they jumped
4.2 percent, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said
today. Economists forecast a 1.3 percent decline, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News  survey . Factory output
slid 0.8 percent in June, according to a separate survey before
the data is released today.  Greece Outlook  The outlook on Greece’s CCC rating, already eight levels
below investment grade, was revised to negative from stable, S&P
said yesterday. The change reflects the risk of a downgrade if
Greece is unable to obtain the next disbursement from the
European Union and International Monetary Fund rescue package,
the ratings company said.  S&P said in a statement today it placed  Banco Popular
Espanol SA (POP)  on CreditWatch with negative implications because
Spanish lenders are likely to receive government support to
recapitalize and holders of the banks’ hybrids and subordinated
debt “will possibly absorb losses.”  Sterling weakened 0.2 percent to $1.5593 and was little
changed at 79.34 pence per euro.  The Bank of England will predict inflation to slow further
below its 2 percent target than previously anticipated and
forecast lower growth this year and next, according to a
majority of economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Governor
 Mervyn King  will present the projections at a press conference
in London at 10:30 a.m. in London.  Negative Tone  “Inflationary pressures are easing, the economy is weak,
bank lending is soft, and the Monetary Policy Committee is
dovish,” Kit Juckes, head of foreign-exchange research at
 Societe Generale SA (GLE)  in London, wrote in a client note. “The
Inflation Report tone will be negative for sterling.”  The  Bank of Japan  board will leave unchanged its 45
trillion yen asset-purchase fund and the benchmark  rate  target
between zero and 0.1 percent tomorrow, according to all 22
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  The central bank may have to resort to buying notes at any
price as it tries to flood the financial system with cash
injections to boost lending and weaken the yen. The BOJ
abandoned its minimum rate for buying treasury discount bills
and commercial paper last month. Nine of the 22 analysts
surveyed expect the yield floor may be scrapped for longer-term
securities as early as tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  