-- ‘Candy Crush’ Maker King Said to File for U.S. Share Sale
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-10-02T20:12:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/-candy-crush-maker-king-said-to-file-for-u-s-public-offering.html
King.com, maker of the popular
“Candy Crush Saga” puzzle game on Facebook Inc. and  Apple (AAPL)  Inc.
products, made a confidential filing for an initial public
offering, a person familiar with the matter said.  The company, part of  Midasplayer.com Ltd. , according to its
website, hasn’t set a date for the sale, said the person, who
asked not to be named because the plans are private. Alex Dale,
a spokesman for London-based King, didn’t respond to a request
for comment. The company was founded in 2003.  An IPO could value the business at $5 billion to $7
billion, said  Michael Pachter , an analyst with Wedbush
Securities in  Los Angeles , who based his estimate on sales
figures from company executives. In June, King passed  Zynga (ZNGA) 
Inc., the social games company that went public in December
2011, as the top game supplier on Facebook.  “A $5 billion valuation is perfectly reasonable,” Pachter
said. “They aren’t a one-hit wonder, they’re a four-hit wonder
and if the numbers show that’s sustainable, they’ll get more
than the $5 billion.”  Sales this year will top $1 billion, up from about $500
million in 2012, according to Pachter. The Telegraph of the U.K.
reported on King’s IPO filing on Sept. 26.  Under the Jumpstart Our Business Startups, or JOBS, Act,
companies with less than $1 billion in annual revenue may keep
filings confidential until shortly before marketing their
offerings. Twitter Inc., based in  San Francisco , is also using
the confidential process.  Top Games  King.com, which has offices in San Francisco and  Stockholm ,
holds the top two spots among monthly active users on Facebook
with “Candy Crush Saga” and “Pet Rescue Saga,” according to
the website  AppData , which tracks usage. It’s among the top
downloads on Apple’s iOS devices and products using Google
Inc.’s Android software.  King.com makes money selling items to help players complete
levels. It hired  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Credit Suisse Group AG
and  Bank of America Corp.  to prepare for the offering, people
familiar with the matter said in June.  Revenue at San Francisco-based Zynga is forecast to shrink
to $872.3 million this year from the 2012 peak of almost $1.3
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Don Mattrick, who replaced Zynga
founder  Mark Pincus  as CEO in July, is shaking up management to
improve game development after five years as the top supplier of
games to Facebook.  Zynga, which first sold shares for $10 each, fell 0.5
percent to $3.82 at the close in  New York . The stock has
rebounded 62 percent this year and has a market value of $3.03
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  