-- Abbott Faces Australia Senate Deals as Minor Parties Gain
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-10-02T08:53:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/abbott-faces-australia-senate-deals-as-minor-parties-gain-ground.html
Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott
will need to negotiate with a clutch of small parties to get his
legislative agenda through parliament from mid-2014 after final
counting showed them holding the balance of power in the Senate.  Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition, which won a majority
in the lower house on Sept. 7, is set to hold 33 of the 76 seats
in the upper house when the new Senate is formed on July 1,
according to the  Australian Electoral Commission . Labor is on
course for 26 spots, the Greens nine and smaller, mainly center-right parties eight. They include the Palmer United Party,
formed six months ago by mining magnate Clive Palmer, which
looks to have won three seats.  The result means Abbott requires the support of at least
six Senators outside his coalition to make good on his election
promises to repeal the previous Labor government’s carbon price
mechanism and mining tax, and introduce a maternity-leave plan
that will cost A$5.5 billion ($5.2 billion) a year. Labor and
the Greens are unlikely to support most of his intended laws.  “Abbott will be reasonably confident that he will be able
to cobble together a right-of-center group in the Senate to get
his laws passed, particularly on economic issues,” said Paul
Williams, a political analyst at Brisbane’s Griffith University.  The election saw 40 of the 76 member Senate up for grabs.
Until July 1 the balance of power is held by the Greens, giving
them final say over legislation. Abbott is yet to announce when
parliament will sit for the first time under the new government.  ‘Blood Oath’  The AEC said in an e-mail statement late today it deferred
the formal declaration of results for the Senate seats in
Western  Australia  after candidates submitted requests for a
recount.  Abbott has vowed a “blood oath” to dismantle Labor’s
emissions-trading program and said he was prepared to call a
double dissolution, which see both houses of parliament
dissolved and new elections take place, should the Senate block
legislation to do so. As center-right parties will hold the
balance of power after July 1, that scenario is now unlikely,
Williams at Griffith University said.  Palmer, 59, who plans to build a full-scale replica of the
Titanic, claimed voters were tired of the major parties,
creating his party in April and mustering candidates for all 150
lower-house seats, as well as 18 Senate positions. He may yet
secure a seat himself: The AEC on Oct. 1 ordered a full recount
of more than 89,000 votes cast in the Queensland lower-house
district of Fairfax, after initial counting showed he won by
just seven votes.  ‘Unrepresentative Swill’  The make-up of the Senate, where a state such as New South
 Wales  has the same amount of representatives as Tasmania despite
a population that’s about 15 times larger, has long been a bone
of contention among politicians in the major parties. In 1992,
then-Labor Prime Minister Paul Keating referred to the members
of the upper house as “unrepresentative swill.”  Australia’s complex system sees Senate contenders ranked
from highest to lowest, with preferences cascading to other
candidates as those with fewer votes are knocked out. Voters can
either rank the contenders themselves, or tick just one box on
the ballot paper and let their preferred party decide on how the
preference votes are distributed.  The system can give candidates Senate seats even after
winning  small fractions  of first-preference selections. Ricky
Muir won a Victoria Senate seat after his Motoring Enthusiast
Party won 0.5 percent of the primary vote in the state.    Other
parties to win a Senate slot include the Liberal Democratic
Party and pro-Christian Family First.  Labor Leader  While Abbott looks to implement his legislative agenda, the
defeated Labor party is yet to select a new leader.  The opposition is holding a ballot of its rank and file
members and lawmakers to choose a leader after Kevin Rudd stood
down in the wake of the election defeat. Bill Shorten, a former
unionist and party power broker, and Rudd’s deputy, Anthony Albanese, are competing for the job, with the new leader due to
be named Oct. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  