-- Acino to Be Acquired by Avista, Nordic for $439 Million
-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 2013-10-02T07:43:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/acino-to-be-acquired-by-avista-nordic-for-439-million.html
Acino Holding AG (ACIN) , a Swiss drugmaker,
agreed to be acquired by private-equity firms Avista Capital
Partners and Nordic Capital for about 398 million Swiss francs
($439 million).  Acino holders will be offered 115 francs a share in cash in
a tender offer, the Aasch, Switzerland-based company said in a
 statement  on its website today. That’s 33 percent above
yesterday’s closing price of 86.50 francs a share.  The sale will give Acino investment it needs to expand,
according to the company. Acino’s board unanimously supports the
offer, the company said. Acino’s stock has fallen 62 percent in
the past five years, while the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical
Index has gained 57 percent.  “The share price has suffered over the past five years
from less-than-optimal communications with the investor
community, earnings disappointments and drug delays,” Odile Rundquist, an analyst at Helvea SA in Geneva, wrote in a note
today. “This announcement is very good news.”  Acino  soared  32 percent to 114 francs at 9:25 a.m. in
Zurich, the biggest increase on record for the company, which
sold shares on the  Swiss stock exchange  in 1994. The stock fell
21 percent this year through yesterday, compared with a 21
percent return for the Bloomberg index that tracks European
pharmaceuticals.  ‘Buy and Build’  H. Lundbeck A/S Chairman Hakan Bjorklund, an executive at
Avista, will be chairman of Acino if the acquisition is
completed.  “We are excited about this transaction as it combines
compelling value to our shareholders with a long-term vision for
Acino and its employees,” Acino Chairman Luzi A. von Bidder
said in the statement. “Avista and Nordic Capital are well-suited partners for Acino. They have proven ‘buy and build’
capabilities and the financial resources that will significantly
enhance Acino’s growth opportunities.”  The tender offer is expected to run from Oct. 21 through
Nov. 15, and at least two thirds of shareholders must accept for
the deal to go through.  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  is lead financial adviser to Avista and Nordic
Capital, and Credit Suisse Group AG also advised the private-equity firms. Acino used Ernst & Young LLP for a fairness
opinion, which will be published with the prospectus, and Baer &
Karrer AG as legal advisors, said Eva Kalias, an outside
spokeswoman for Acino.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Heather Harris at 
 hharris5@bloomberg.net  