-- Actis Would Favor Strategic Sale of Alexander Forbes Over IPO
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y   a n d   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-10-02T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/actis-would-favor-strategic-sale-of-alexander-forbes-over-ipo.html
Actis LLP, a private equity firm,
said it would prefer to sell its stake in South African pension
fund manager  Alexander Forbes Ltd. (AFP)  to another company rather
than list the shares on a stock market.  “Our preference in most instances is a strategic sale,”
Actis’ Head of Africa John van Wyk, 49, said in an interview on
Sept. 27 in Johannesburg. “This usually translates into a
better understanding of value and better pricing on a sale.”  Actis led an 8.2 billion rand ($811 million) buy-out of
Johannesburg-based Alexander Forbes in 2007 as part of a group
that included Ethos Private Equity Ltd., Canadian fund managers
Caisse de Depot et Placement du  Quebec  and the Ontario Teachers
Pension Plan. There is a “process under way” that could lead
to Actis’ exit 12 months from now, according to Van Wyk, with
both a sale and an initial public offering being considered.  Alexander Forbes Chief Executive Officer Edward Kieswetter
said on Sept. 2 the company is planning an IPO after June next
year as the private equity shareholders seek to exit.  “I am following a board mandate to prepare for an IPO
which has the backing of the whole board including Actis and
Ethos,”  Kieswetter said by phone yesterday. “Each shareholder
in considering their own position will look at the pros and
cons. A trade sale is a clean exit while a listing may have a
lock up period. The board will choose the option that unlocks
the most value.”  ‘Significantly Larger’  Alexander Forbes has had “all kinds of interest” from
potential buyers over the past four years, according to
Kieswetter. “We are getting a sense of interest in the market
and strategic buyers,” he said.  Actis has three Africa-focused private equity funds and is
in the process of raising cash for a fourth, Van Wyk said. The
company has raised more than $2 billion across  Africa  funds
since 2003, including real estate and agribusiness-focused
ventures, according to Van Wyk. The company prefers to keep
investments for three to seven years, he said.  The most recent private equity fund makes investments in
African companies of an average of $100 million, according to
Van Wyk, with the target ranging from $50 million to $250
million. “Over the years, deal size has become significantly
larger,” he said.  Actis, which also invests in  Asia  and  Latin America , is
interested in companies able to tap into increased urbanization
in Africa as well as rising consumer spending, with a particular
focus on financial services. It agreed to buy South African
automated telling machine operator Paycorp Holdings Pty Ltd. for
937 million rand in August and invested $244 million in  Egypt ’s
Commercial International Bank in 2009.  The company proposed an offer for Johannesburg-based
drugmaker  Adcock Ingram Holdings Ltd. (AIP)  earlier this year, two
people familiar with the matter said in August. Adcock has since
agreed to be bought by Chilean drugmaker  CFR Pharmaceuticals SA (CFR) 
in a 12.6 billion rand deal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net ;
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  