-- Madoff Aides Perez, O’Hara Accused of Accessing Computer
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-10-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/madoff-aides-perez-o-hara-accused-of-accessing-computer.html
Two former employees of  Bernard Madoff ’s investment firm about to go to trial for aiding the
scheme were accused of improperly accessing a Madoff company
computer when it was locked down after the con man’s arrest.  Jerome O’Hara and George Perez, both former programmers who
worked at Madoff’s investment business, were charged in 2009
with helping Madoff conceal his scheme for more than 15 years
using computer codes and algorithms. The two men are scheduled
to go on trial with three other former Madoff employees on Oct.
7 in federal court in Manhattan.  After Madoff was arrested, the trustee liquidating Bernard
L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC kept O’Hara and Perez on as
employees to ensure data was preserved, Assistant U.S. attorneys
Matthew Schwartz, John Zach and Randall Jackson said yesterday
in a letter to U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain. All
Madoff computer systems were locked down and no one was allowed
access to the servers that handled the investment advisory
business, known as “House 17,” without prior permission,
prosecutors said.  “Nonetheless, on or about February and March 2009, over
the course of several days, O’Hara and Perez accessed the House
17 system and printed the source code for a variety of programs,
including many pertaining to the creation of false books and
records,” prosecutors said.  Both men obtained and printed source code for more than 90
programs, the U.S. said. An investigator for the trustee later
determined that both men had accessed the Madoff system without
authorization on at least four different days and both O’Hara
and Perez were fired, the U.S. said.  ‘Unfairly Prejudicial’  Larry Krantz, a lawyer for Perez, and Gordon Mehler, a
lawyer for O’Hara, said in court papers that prosecutors’
assertions should be excluded from opening arguments at the
trial because they are “unfairly prejudicial.”  Both men printed out the material to show potential
employers examples of their work and returned the material after
being asked to do so by a representative working for the
trustee, Krantz and Mehler said.  The government is “grasping at straws” in seeking to
admit such evidence, the defense lawyers said. The information
would likely confuse jurors and create “a trial within a
trial,” the lawyers said.  Madoff pleaded guilty to fraud in 2009 for cheating
investors out of $20 billion in principal. He’s serving a 150-year term in federal prison in North Carolina.  The case is U.S. v. O’Hara, 09-mg-2482 U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Blumberg at 
 pblumberg1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  