-- Taiwan Dollar Touches 5-Month High as Greenback Demand Weakens
-- B y   J u s t i n a   L e e
-- 2013-10-02T08:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/taiwan-dollar-touches-5-month-high-as-greenback-demand-weakens.html
Taiwan ’s dollar touched a five-month
high as a partial U.S. government shutdown reduced demand for
the greenback. Sovereign bonds rose.  The Bloomberg  Dollar Index , which tracks the U.S. tender
against a basket of 10 leading global currencies, fell as much
as 0.4 percent yesterday, its biggest intraday decline in two
weeks. The U.S. government began its first partial shutdown in
17 years yesterday after Congress failed to break a partisan
deadlock on spending. Congressional leaders haven’t scheduled
any further negotiations, fueling concern the impasse could
bleed into the more consequential fight over how to raise the
U.S. debt limit to avoid the first-ever default.  “U.S. lawmakers didn’t reach a compromise over fiscal
policy as previously expected, which made the  U.S. dollar  weaken
and Asian currencies rise,” said Samson Tu, a Taipei-based  fund
manager  at Uni-President Assets Management Corp. “At the end of
the quarter, exporters have also been selling foreign currencies
for book-keeping purposes.”  Taiwan’s dollar touched NT$29.485 earlier today, the
strongest level since May 9. It erased a 0.4 percent gain during
the last four minutes of trading before closing little changed
at NT$29.61 against its U.S. counterpart, prices from Taipei
Forex Inc. show, amid suspected central bank intervention. The
authority has sold the local dollar in the run-up to the close
on most days since March 2012, according to traders who asked
not to be identified.  Bonds, Forwards  Central bank Governor Perng Fai-nan told legislators today
that he didn’t imply in earlier statements that  interest rates 
would rise. Inflation expectations and the global economy are
the main factors determining borrowing costs, which may not
necessarily follow U.S. monetary policy, he added.  The yield on  government bonds  surged last week on
speculation the central bank would tighten policy. The rate on
the 1.75 percent notes due September 2023 fell four basis points
today to 1.66 percent, according to Gretai Securities Market.  One-month non-deliverable forwards on the local dollar were
little changed at NT$29.445, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected
moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.82 percent.  The  overnight interbank lending rate  was little changed at
0.384 percent, a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan
Interbank Money Center showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justina Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 jlee1489@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  