-- Talent Agency IMG Said to Draw Silver Lake, TPG Offers
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o ,   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   J o d i   X u
-- 2013-10-02T20:30:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/talent-agency-img-said-to-draw-silver-lake-tpg-offers.html
Forstmann Little & Co. attracted
first-round bids for the talent agency IMG Worldwide Inc. from
Silver Lake Management LLC, TPG Capital, CVC Capital Partners
Ltd. and KKR & Co., people familiar with the matter said.  Initial, nonbinding expressions of interest were due Sept.
30 and give potential buyers access to financial data on the
company, which could fetch more than $2 billion, said the
people, who asked not to be named because the talks are private.  The auction pits two Hollywood talent-management companies
and their private-equity investors against each other. Silver
Lake is teaming up with William Morris Endeavor Entertainment
LLC, while TPG is joining with  Creative Artists Agency , said the
people. CVC Capital, KKR and other private equity firms have
also bid, one person said.  Forstmann Little hired Morgan Stanley and  Evercore Partners
Inc. (EVR)  in May as advisers for a possible sale, people with
knowledge of the matter said at the time. In August, the New
York-based private-equity firm announced it was considering a
range of options. The company’s founder,  Ted Forstmann , died in
November 2011.  In crafting their offers, Silver Lake and TPG can consider
potential cost savings from combining the talent agencies they
already own with New York-based IMG, one of the people said.
More than 20 bids were entered, according to one of the people.  Owen Blicksilver , an outside spokesman for TPG, declined
comment, as did Allison Gunther, an outside spokeswoman for CVC
Capital. Gemma Hart, an outside spokeswoman for Silver Lake,
Kathleen Broderick, a Forstmann Little director, and Kristi Huller from KKR didn’t immediately return e-mails and calls
seeking comment.  Auction Process  The auction stalled this summer as Forstmann Little
representatives sought to ensure they had control of the sale
and were present in meetings with all potential buyers, as
opposed to letting IMG managers handle the process, according to
a person familiar with the matter.  IMG, led by Chief Executive Officer Michael Dolan,
represents the National Football League’s Eli and  Peyton Manning 
and tennis champion Venus Williams. The company also manages
models, and fashion and sports events.  Forstmann Little bought IMG in 2004 for about $750 million,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  The agency was founded more than half a century ago with a
handshake agreement between Mark McCormack and golfer  Arnold
Palmer , according to its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Jodi Xu in New York at 
 jxu205@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  