-- Alex Ferguson Says Chelsea Owner Abramovich Tried to Sign Him
-- B y   B e n   P r i e c h e n f r i e d
-- 2013-10-02T13:45:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/alex-ferguson-says-chelsea-owner-abramovich-tried-to-sign-him.html
Former Manchester United manager  Alex
Ferguson  said Russian billionaire  Roman Abramovich  tried to
recruit him for Chelsea during his time at Old Trafford.  “He used an agent when he first came to approach me,”
Ferguson, who retired in May as Britain’s most successful soccer
manager, told  Charlie Rose  on PBS television. “I said ‘No
chance.’ Manchester United’s my team, my club.”  Ferguson, 71, had more than 26 years at United, during
which he won 38 trophies. He said Chelsea was the toughest
opponent in the past few years, although he questioned owner
Abramovich’s frequent coaching changes. Chelsea has replaced its
manager nine times since the Russian bought the club in 2003 and
won the  Champions League , three league titles and four F.A. Cups
in that time.  “That works for them in terms of keeping winning, but you
look at the long-term situation and you would worry about
that,” Ferguson said.  Since Ferguson left, United has suffered its worst start to
a season in 24 years, with only seven points from the first six
Premier League games. That prompted Dublin-based bookmaker  Paddy
Power Plc  to offer odds of 6-1 that he’ll return as coach for at
least a game. A successful $1 wager would bring $6 plus the
stake.  “You’re throwing your money down the drain,” Ferguson
told Rose when asked about the possibility. “I made the
decision, the timing was perfect. I went out a winner. There’s
no way back.”  Ferguson led United to a record-extending 20th English
league title last season. His successor, former Everton manager
and fellow Scot  David Moyes , was appointed on his
recommendation.  “They’re in good hands,” Ferguson said. “David Moyes
will do a great job. The entire club will be behind him. He’ll
be fine, he’ll be good.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Priechenfried at the London Sports Desk  at  bprie@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  