-- Alrosa Climbs to Two-Year High After Stake Offer: Moscow Mover
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-10-02T15:49:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/alrosa-jumps-to-december-2011-high-on-stake-offer-moscow-mover.html
OAO Alrosa surged to the highest
level in almost two years on speculation the world’s biggest
diamond producer will sell shares at a premium to the market.  Alrosa added as much as 9 percent today, before closing up
7 percent at 38.79 rubles by the close in Moscow, the highest
level since December 2011. The amount of shares traded was
equivalent to about 2 times the three-month average. Alrosa
closed at 36.255 rubles yesterday.  A combined 14 percent stake in Alrosa will be sold by the
Russian government and the Republic of Yakutia, in the country’s
Far East, where its main mines are located, the diamond producer
said today in a statement. Alrosa itself will sell about 2
percent of treasury stock, with proceeds used to reduce debt, it
said. The company is valued at 38 to 44 rubles a share by VTB
Capital, Interfax reported today, citing two unnamed people in
the banking sector.  “The shares have jumped because they were undervalued,”
Andrey Tretelnikov, an analyst at Rye, Man & Gor Securities,
said by phone from Moscow. “This is a unique asset, Chinese
demand for diamonds will only continue to grow. There’ll be a
lot of interest in this deal.”  The share placement will be the first state asset offering
since VTB Group’s $3.3 billion May equity sale. The Finance
Ministry reduced the forecast for budget proceeds from this
year’s asset sales by 86 percent.  Alrosa is selling as economists predict  China ’s economy
probably grew 7.7 percent from a year earlier, according to a
Bloomberg News survey. Russia’s Micex Index gained 9.9 percent
in the third quarter, the best quarterly advance in almost three
years, after the U.S. Federal Reserve unexpectedly decided
against reducing monetary stimulus.  Book Building  “Ultimately there’s a willingness to place this with as
many investors as they can,” Mark Richardson, VTB Capital’s
global head of equities, said in a Moscow interview today.
“You’re going to build a book across all the major
institutions, and I think you’ll get appetite from all the major
institutions, so it’s not going to be placed into four or five
sovereign wealth funds.”  VTB Capital is a bookrunner for the deal along with  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley and
Renaissance Capital.  The Alrosa sale will be Russia’s first mining IPO after a
unit of GLG Partners delayed Russian coal miner  Sibanthracite
Plc (SIB) ’s planned offering in  London  in July, citing market weakness
and a lack of interest in mining stocks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  