-- AMR Scores Win as Home State Texas Quits US Airways Merger Suit
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n ,   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-10-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/amr-scores-win-as-home-state-texas-quits-us-airways-merger-suit.html
American Airlines (AAMRQ)  and  US Airways
Group Inc. (LCC)  scored a win in their battle to merge as Texas
Attorney General  Greg Abbott  quit the U.S. antitrust lawsuit
seeking to block their tie-up.  American’s parent, AMR Corp., and US Airways reached a
settlement with Abbott under which the merged airline agreed to
maintain a hub at the Dallas-Fort Worth airport and keep its
headquarters in the area. The  Justice Department , six states and
the  District of Columbia  are still participating in the lawsuit
claiming a merger would be bad for consumers.  Shares of both airlines rallied, buoyed by optimism that
the accord with Texas could improve the merger’s odds of winning
approval and by a federal judge in  Washington ’s rejection of a
government bid to delay the trial. The combined airline already
had planned to retain American’s Fort Worth home and Dallas-Fort
Worth hub, where flights from small cities in  Texas  and
elsewhere converge.  “Our real concern, that we articulated from the beginning,
was to ensure no interruption of service from rural areas of the
state of Texas,” Abbott said at a news conference yesterday at
the airport. “That was our main goal going in, that’s our main
accomplishment coming out.”  Abbott, who’s seeking the Republican nomination for
governor in 2014, has been attacked for his opposition to the
merger, including by State Senator Wendy Davis, a Fort Worth
Democrat considering a run for governor. In a column for the
 Dallas  Morning News on Aug. 15, Abbott said the violations of
antitrust law in the proposed merger were “so overt that it
would offend my oath of office not to take action.”  Shares Climb  US Airways  climbed 3.9 percent to close at $19.69 in New
York. AMR rose 8 percent to $4.45 in over-the-counter trading.  The U.S. Justice Department antitrust suit to block the
tie-up creating the world’s largest airline is scheduled to
begin trial on Nov. 25. Final arguments are slated for January.  U.S. District Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly in rebuffing the
government said a “speedy disposition” is needed in view of a
Jan. 18 deadline to complete the merger, the resolution of AMR’s
bankruptcy case, which hinges on the deal, the interests of
employees and the amount of money at stake.  “It is essential that the Department of Justice attorneys
continue to litigate this case,” the judge wrote in an order.  The Justice Department, which argued it was suffering
short-staffing as a result of the government’s partial shutdown,
said the court’s order “would constitute express legal
authorization for the activity to continue.”  Bankruptcy Plan  AMR is counting on the merger as part of its plan to
restructure in bankruptcy, after filing for court protection in
November 2011. AMR and US Airways had targeted a third-quarter
closing for their deal before the Justice Department filed its
lawsuit in August.  Jim Corridore , a New York-based analyst at Standard &
Poor’s Capital IQ, who has a strong buy rating on US Airways,
said the agreement with Texas weakens the Justice Department’s
case and makes an overall settlement more likely.  “The more setbacks they have and the less time they have
to prepare, the more likely they are to try to find a face-saving resolution,” he said in a telephone interview.  In addition to the Justice Department,  Arizona ,  Florida ,
 Michigan ,  Pennsylvania ,  Tennessee , Virginia and the District of
Columbia are proceeding with the litigation against the
airlines. They claim a combination of American, the third-biggest U.S. airline, and No. 5 US Airways would hurt consumers
by damping competition and paving the way for higher fares.  Federal Lawsuit  Allen Grunes, an antitrust lawyer with GeyerGorey LLC in
Washington and a former attorney with the Justice Department’s
antitrust division, said he didn’t think Abbott’s decision to
settle would affect the federal lawsuit.  “With multistate task forces, if one state drops out,
whatever slack that creates will be picked up by some of the
others,” Grunes said. “Both Florida and Pennsylvania have
good-sized antitrust components so I’d expect them to take up
where Texas left off.”  AMR Chief Executive Officer  Tom Horton  said during a press
conference with Abbott that the settlement with Texas “is an
example of what happens when we sit down and talk to the party
on the other side of the table and find a way to address the
concerns.”  The settlement also calls for the carrier to retain service
to 22 airports in Texas, Abbott said.  Horton said the merger would promote competition and create
a stronger airline able “to compete head to head” with  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and Delta Air Lines Inc., which rank
first and second in the global industry by passenger traffic.  January Deadline  Horton, who would become chairman if US Airways Chief
Executive Officer Doug Parker took over at the merged airline,
was asked if he’s disappointed that the judge doesn’t expect to
rule on the lawsuit before January. The companies earlier agreed
to extend the deadline for completing the merger to Jan. 18 from
the original Dec. 17 date.  “We’re not happy with the delay, but the judge is
absolutely proceeding with dispatch and we appreciate that,”
Horton said told reporters after the news conference.  The antitrust case is U.S. v. US Airways Group Inc., 13-cv-01236, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).
(Washington). The bankruptcy case is In re AMR Corp., 11-bk-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in Washington at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  