-- ANA Wins More Slots Than Japan Airlines at Haneda Airport
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2013-10-02T09:28:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/ana-said-to-win-more-slots-than-japan-airlines-at-tokyo-s-haneda.html
ANA Holdings Inc. (9202) , Japan’s biggest
airline, won more take-off and landing rights than  Japan
Airlines Co. (9201)  at  Tokyo ’s Haneda airport in a distribution of new
international slots by the government.  ANA will get 11 new daytime slot pairs at the end of March,
compared with five for Japan Air, the nation’s transport
ministry said in a statement in Tokyo. The ministry, which was
distributing 31 rights in total today, said overseas carriers
will get 15 slot pairs at Haneda, just outside Tokyo’s main
business district.  The decision to give more slots to ANA, the partner of
 United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , is a break from the past, when
new international slots at Haneda were shared equally between
the two largest airlines in the country. ANA said last month it
should get more slots than Japan Air, which has teamed up with
American Airlines Inc., because the government assisted Japan
Air in its restructuring.  “ANA got more than I thought they would,” said  Ryota Himeno , an analyst at Barclays Securities Japan Ltd. “It
doesn’t mean they will get an immediate boost to their profits,
but it’s definitely a plus.”  The transport ministry is continuing negotiations with the
U.S. and other countries on how to divide the remaining nine
slot pairs, it said in the statement. The ministry made the slot
decision to ensure a fair competitive base and convenience for
passengers, it said in the statement.  International Slots  ANA will get two slot pairs for flights to Germany and one
each for the U.K.,  France , Canada, Singapore, Thailand, Vietnam,
Indonesia, the Philippines and  China , the ministry said. Japan
Air will get pairs for the U.K., France, Singapore, Thailand and
China, it said.  The international slots will bring in about 6 billion yen
($61 million) of extra revenue a year on average, according to
forecasts from Himeno.  Japan  Air fell 1.7 percent to 5,880 yen in Tokyo trading
today before the announcement, trimming its gains for the year
to 59 percent. ANA fell 0.5 percent to 216 yen and is up 19
percent this year.  Japan Air was relisted on the Tokyo Stock Exchange last
year after it wiped out shareholders and debts during bankruptcy
as it was supported by 350 billion yen of government-backed
financing.  ‘Healthy Competition’  “We want to have healthy competition,” said Shigenori
Hiraoka, a director in Japan’s Civil Aviation Bureau, told
reporters in Tokyo today. “We considered the help given to JAL
as part of the decision.”  The carriers currently have eight daytime slot pairs each
for Haneda to overseas destinations and five nighttime pairs.
ANA flies to  Seoul ,  Hong Kong , Beijing, Shanghai and Taipei
during the day and Singapore, Bangkok,  Frankfurt , Los Angeles
and Honolulu during the night from Haneda.  The transport ministry hasn’t given a “rational”
explanation for granting it fewer slots than ANA, Japan Air said
in a statement today.  “We welcome the slot allocation decision,” ANA President
Shinichiro Ito said by e-mail.  U.S. airlines have also jockeyed to get international slots
at the airport.  Delta  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , the only major U.S. carrier without a
Japanese partner, wants to snatch more landing slots at the
airport while United is aiming for its first.  Haneda restarted intercontinental flights three years ago
after opening a new international terminal. It moved overseas
flights to Narita, 70 kilometers (40 miles) east of Tokyo, more
than three decades earlier to cut down on overcrowding.  Atlanta-based Delta, the second-largest U.S. carrier, won
two nighttime slots to Haneda in 2010, while American Airlines
Inc., partnered with Japan Airlines, got one,  Hawaiian Holdings
Inc. (HA)  also received one, and United, tied up with ANA, got none.  United and American’s respective ventures with ANA and
Japan Air allow them to share revenue from passengers traveling
from the U.S. via Japan to other destinations in Asia, such as
Hong Kong, China, the Philippines, Singapore and Indonesia.  Delta, which doesn’t have any such venture with a Japanese
airline, said July 31 it wants 25 slot pairs so the company can
return most of its flights to Haneda after being forced to move
them to Narita in 1978.  Japan has been gradually increasing landing and takeoff
slots at Haneda since the opening of a new runway in 2010. It
will add 30,000 international slots in the year ending March
bringing the total to 447,000 annually,  according  to the
transport ministry.  ANA also won more domestic slots than Japan Air at Haneda
when the nation’s transport ministry handed out new take-off and
landing spaces last year. ANA got handed eight new domestic
slots, compared with five for  Star Flyer Inc. (9206) , four for  Skymark
Airlines Inc. (9204)  and three for Japan Air.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  