-- Angola Boosts Infastructure Spend to Attract Investment
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-10-02T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/angola-boosts-infastructure-spend-to-attract-investment.html
Angola  is investing in projects
ranging from ports to airports after missing its foreign
investment target because spending on road and hydropower
projects lagged behind what was needed to lure greater funding,
the country’s investment agency said.  The nation is expected to attract $4 billion a year in non-oil investments from abroad by 2017, failing to meet its target
to register an average of $4 billion annually from 2012 to 2017,
Maria Luisa Abrantes, chairwoman of the National Private
Investment Agency, said in an interview from the capital, Luanda
on Oct. 1.  “For a country coming from war, we’re just taking off and
like a jet plane, we need to attain cruising altitude,”
Abrantes said. “It’s very difficult for investors to come to a
country without infrastructure, but they need to visit and have
a goal so they’ll know in which area to invest to get a
return.”  Africa ’s biggest crude oil producer after Nigeria is trying
to spur the economy through investments in a wider range of
industries including farming, real estate, tourism and
telecommunications, following a 27-year civil war that ended in
2002.  Ports are under construction or planned in Cabinda, Zaire
and Bengo provinces, while a new cargo terminal is operating in
Viana, 12 kilometers (7.4 miles) southeast of Luanda, and an
international airport is being built near Viana, Abrantes said.  The Benguela Railway connecting Angola’s coast on the
Atlantic Ocean to  Zambia  is almost completed, she said.  “These are going to attract investors,” Abrantes said.  Power Shortages  Improving Angola’s inadequate road networks and unreliable
power system, which is among the  least efficient  in Africa, to
the level of a middle-income nation could help boost annual
growth by 2.9 percentage points a year, according to the  World
Bank . Addressing infrastructure challenges would require
investment of $2.1 billion over a decade, the bank said.  The economy is forecast by the  International Monetary Fund 
to grow 6.2 percent this year,  outpacing  the average 5.6 percent
rate for sub-Saharan Africa and 5.3 percent for  emerging markets 
and developing nations.  Foreign investment in Angolan industries excluding oil
stood at $1.9 billion by the end of September, compared with
$2.3 billion for all of last year, Abrantes said.  Hotels, Sugar  Agreements signed this year by the investment agency
include a $282 million hotel complex on Luanda Bay by the
closely held M&J Pestana-Sociedade de Turismo da Madeira SA, and
a sugar plantation deal by Cia. de Bioenergia de Angola Lda.
worth $452 million, Abrantes said.  The plantation is 40 percent owned each by  Salvador ,
Brazil-based Odebrecht SA and Angola-based  Damer Industria SA (CSAN3) ,
while state-run petroleum company Sonangol Holdings holds a 20
percent stake.  Other investments include a $103 million hotel complex
offshore Luanda known as Ilha da Cazanga, $66 million of
investments by cable operators Zon TV Cabo Portugal SA, and a
$29 million bottling plant for Sumol+Compal, a Portugese
beverage company, documents from the agency show.  The government may this year reduce the minimum investment
threshold for non-Angolans from $1 million and revise tax
incentives for industries based on the amount of capital
expenditure and training they plan, Abrantes said.  Construction companies get tax breaks on materials while
private projects face higher taxes than public ones, she said.
Local partners are only required in the oil and diamond
industries.  Anip, as the agency is known, is drumming up new business
through investor tours in the U.K.,  Germany ,  Poland ,  Turkey ,
 South Korea  and the United Arab Emirates, Abrantes said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  