-- Maoist Self-Criticism Comes to a TV Near You
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-10-02T23:29:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/maoist-self-criticism-comes-to-a-tv-near-you.html
On the evening of Sept. 25, Xi Jinping debuted in his role as China’s father-confessor across
 state-owned television stations . The occasion was the conclusion
of three days of self-criticism sessions that the Chinese
president oversaw in Hebei province. Wearing his signature black
jacket and open-collared white shirt, Xi sat listening to
nervous high-ranking local officials. They had reason to be
worried:  According to Xinhua  News Agency, the state newswire, Xi
had stern expectations for what would be accomplished (according
to official press accounts, he attended four half-day sessions):
“I don’t want to hear fancy words from you when I take part in
your sessions. I want real criticisms and self-criticisms.”  For older people, the phrase “ self-criticism ” evokes the
excesses of Maoism in a way few other terms can. Under Mao Zedong, such sessions were, in theory, a way individuals could
be freed of their selfish tendencies and better align themselves
with the Communist Party’s ideological goals. In actuality,
especially during the Cultural Revolution, they were a means of
public punishment and humiliation.  The practice, in its uglier, highly public form, died out
with Mao. But  every few years , the national government seems to
spearhead a publicized revival, driven by leaders who are
concerned that scandals have eroded the party’s legitimacy and
who are unable to address failing confidence through genuine
reform. The Hebei sessions derive from Xi’s so-called “ mass
line ” educational campaign (with a particularly Maoist edge),
which is designed to reassert bonds between the cadres and the
masses.  And so, last week, officials took turns criticizing
themselves and -- in soft terms -- their colleagues. Yet, far
from realizing the “real” criticisms that Xi allegedly desired,
much of what was revealed was little more than  bureaucrats being
bureaucrats . “Some comrades, after careful consideration, had to
admit that they suffered from ‘terminal job syndrome,’ whereby
they no longer want to listen to other opinions,” according to
the People’s Daily, the Communist Party’s self-proclaimed
mouthpiece newspaper, and “don’t want to place strict demands on
themselves.”  Some officials admitted that they enjoyed large, fancy
banquets as opposed to small, modest ones. Others said they
appreciated it when subordinates and ordinary folks kissed up to
them. And Sun Ruibin, the highest-ranking official in
Shijiazhuang, the province’s largest city, audaciously  conceded :
“After becoming the party secretary of Shijiazhuang, I equipped
myself with an SUV. Even though it’s against the rules to have
such a vehicle, I was comfortable with it and thought the matter
no big deal.”  While some members of Hubei’s bureaucracy may now have
clearer consciences, these aren’t the sorts of admissions that
will satiate a public that equates government service with
corruption. Even Sun’s SUV confession, perfectly aligned to Xi’s
 campaign against official extravagance , probably won’t
accomplish much in the eyes of a people accustomed to hearing
revelations about the vast  real-estate holdings  that even minor
bureaucrats have  managed to acquire .  Indeed, ever since the self-criticism footage was
broadcast, the sessions have become material for  jokes, disdain 
and vicious criticism on Sina Weibo,  China ’s most popular
microblogging service. “Self-criticism becomes an ineffective
and ridiculous farce,”  tweeted  Hu Zhihong, a lawyer in Jiangxi
province, on Sept. 30, echoing many  others . “It is simply
playing with words. All sensitive issues, such as rules on the
disclosure of officials’ assets, corruption and power-for-money
deals, are avoided.”  As in many other leadership-driven government initiatives,
the gap between the opinion of the state-run news media and that
of the social-media-driven Internet is gaping. The state-run
outlets have extolled the sessions as major steps forward for
transparency and political reform. Zhang Guangzhao, a columnist
with People’s Daily-owned Haiwainet, turned Sun’s SUV confession
into an act of political courage in a  Sept. 27 piece : “For
anyone who truly understands China’s political culture and
environment, such self-exposure means ruining one’s political
future. Nonetheless, the senior officials of Hebei province
admitted their mistakes, one after another, and even put forward
ideas to correct them. Such political courage is largely
attributable to China’s new leadership, which sets an example by
its pragmatic style.”  Does Zhang actually believe this? Does Xi? The possible
answers do not inspire much hope that the frayed bonds between
the Communist Party and its subjects are likely to be repaired
soon.  Xi and the Communist Party may sincerely think -- or
believe they can get the people to think -- that criticizing
one’s attachment to modest perks of power inspires public
confidence. Unfortunately, there’s little evidence, at least on
social media, that it has. “Most people believe that the self-criticisms focus on trifling points and are superficial,
amounting to nothing,”  tweeted  Xu Deming, a Shanghai-based
artist, on Sept. 30. “The government’s goodwill effort has
failed to please the people and instead caused ridicule.” At
this point, any true belief that the people might take these
sessions seriously is an unsettling portrayal of just how little
China’s leaders understand those they lead.  It’s also possible that Xi knows that last week’s Hebei
sessions -- and the  self-criticism sessions  that have occurred
elsewhere in recent days -- will have little effect on how his
government is perceived by the Chinese people and doesn’t really
care. Xi’s zeal for self-criticism may instead be motivated by a
desire to appease conservative elements of the Communist Party.
Whether he can be successful in meeting their expectations is
difficult to judge from outside the party’s inner circles.  What can be judged is Xi’s inability to connect with a
people who seem inclined to view his public initiatives as
stunts irrelevant to their interests. Perhaps if Xi subjected
himself to some self-criticism, he might better understand what
he’s missing.  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog, is writing “Junkyard Planet,” a book on the global
recycling industry.)  To contact the author of this article: Adam Minter
at  ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Zara Kessler
at  zkessler@bloomberg.net . 