-- Marc Jacobs Said to Leave Vuitton and Focus on IPO of Own Label
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-10-02T15:54:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/marc-jacobs-said-to-leave-vuitton-and-focus-on-ipo-of-own-label.html
Marc Jacobs  will leave  Louis Vuitton 
after 16 years as artistic director of the world’s biggest
luxury label to focus on an initial public offering of his own
brand, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Vuitton-owner  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  wants to
accelerate development of the Marc Jacobs label, which has
annual sales of about $1 billion, and may pursue an IPO in about
three years, said the person, who declined to be identified
because they were not authorized to speak on the matter. A
spokesman for Paris-based LVMH declined to comment.  Jacobs’s move will provide a double boost for LVMH,
allowing him to focus solely on the growth of his label while a
new creative director works to inspire a revival at Vuitton,
according to Luca Solca, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas. Sales
at Vuitton have slowed as consumers tire of Vuitton’s
ubiquitous, logoed designs and sought out more exclusive items.  “While Marc has done a lot for LV in 16 years at the helm,
it is only natural that new creative talent will provide
novelty,” Solca wrote in an e-mail.  At Vuitton, which held its spring-summer collection today,
50-year-old Jacobs helped transform the trunkmaker into the
world’s biggest luxury brand with sales of more than 7 billion
euros ($9.5 billion). He added ready-to-wear and collaborated
with artists including Stephen Sprouse and  Kanye West .  LVMH, the world’s largest luxury-goods maker, in April
posted its weakest fashion and  leather-goods  sales growth since
2009. Yves Carcelle, who worked with Jacobs since he joined
Vuitton, was replaced as the label’s CEO last year.  Black Dresses  LVMH fell 2.2 percent to 144.75 euros in Paris trading
today, trimming the  stock’s  annual increase to 4.3 percent.  Jacobs’s women’s collection for Vuitton, shown today at the
Louvre, was funereal, with models wearing black dresses and
feathered headgear. Referring to his long-term business partner
and LVMH’s chairman, the designer signed off the program notes:
“For Robert Duffy and  Bernard Arnault . All my love, always.”  The American designer founded his namesake brand in 1984
and LVMH invested in it in 1997 when he joined Vuitton. Marc
Jacobs, which includes diffusion line Marc by Marc Jacobs, sells
men’s and women’s clothing, leather goods, accessories and
fragrances. LVMH does not break out results by brand.  While Marc Jacobs is one of LVMH’s best-performing brands,
spinning it off in an IPO while it is still growing would be “a
lesser evil” than holding on to it against the wishes of its
designer and seeing sales plummet, if reports of a share sale
are true, said  Antoine Belge , analyst at HSBC in Paris.  Michael Kors  By pursuing an IPO, Marc Jacobs would follow  Michael Kors 
Holding Ltd., which raised $944 million in a 2011 sale. That
company was worth $15.4 billion at yesterday’s closing share
price in  New York .  Jacobs’s departure comes as Arnault’s daughter Delphine
arrives at Vuitton from Christian Dior Couture. Delphine Arnault, who joined last month, has been tasked with overseeing
all product-related activities and helping restore Vuitton’s
appeal, reporting to new CEO Michael Burke.  Former Balenciaga designer Nicholas Ghesquiere has been
tipped as Jacobs’s successor, according to the New York Times.
The designer left the Kering SA-owned brand last year after 15
years at the Paris-based label.  “I take pleasure from things for exactly what they are,
reveling in the pure adornment of beauty for beauty’s sake,”
Jacobs said in the Vuitton show’s program notes today.
“Connecting with something on a superficial level is as honest
as connecting with it on an intellectual level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  