-- Hard Truths on Syria From the Clinton Era
-- B y   N a n c y   S o d e r b e r g
-- 2013-10-02T17:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/hard-truths-on-syria-from-the-clinton-era.html
The passage of a United Nations
Security Council resolution to dismantle Syria’s chemical
weapons stockpile is a major victory for U.S. diplomacy. It came
about by implementing some of the major lessons of the post-Cold
War decades -- the importance of force to back up diplomacy and
a willingness to use force outside the UN context. Now President
 Barack Obama  must use these lessons in the endgame. But he must
also apply a third lesson: keeping the world’s attention on the
much more important, and harder, task of ending the civil war.  I’m wary of tactical victories. Throughout much of the
1990s, I watched senior officials at the White House and the
capitals of Europe celebrate small diplomatic victories. All too
often, this seeming progress ended up distracting leaders from
the more difficult task of devising and implementing strategies
to stop killings at their source.  In March 1993, for instance, there were signs that
diplomacy might succeed in getting the Serbs to end their drive
to take over much of Bosnia. Former Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic had indicated he might be prepared to enter into a
cease-fire within 72 hours, remove the “heavy weapons” that
were being used to attack civilians in Sarajevo and open routes
for UN operations. For weeks, senior officials in President Bill Clinton’s administration discussed whether to use force against
those heavy weapons and whether to send troops to enforce the
agreement. The Serbs reneged on the decision -- and 100,000 had
died by the time the U.S. married force and diplomacy to end the
war in 1995.  Similarly, in the early days of the Rwandan genocide in
1994, U.S. officials focused on restarting peace negotiations,
not on sending troops to end the killing. Even the response to
the now-famous “genocide fax” sent by General Romeo Dallaire,
the commander of the UN peacekeeping force on the ground in
 Rwanda , centered not on the report of a threat to exterminate
Tutsis, but rather on the request by Dallaire to seize an arms
cache. The discussion was about the possibility of a diplomatic
or military “trap,” not the threat of genocide. As in so many
conflicts, the international community put its energy into
negotiating incremental steps toward peace rather than advancing
the bolder strategies required to end the conflict.  What will happen in the Syrian crisis? For the next few
months, the international community will focus on Syria’s
stockpile of chemical weapons. It will spend weeks putting to
rest fictitious claims by Syria that the attacks were the work
of the rebels. A long back and forth will ensue with the
government on access to sites and procedures for destroying the
weapons. Throughout this process, Syrian officials will be
legitimized -- and even praised -- for their cooperation with
the UN.  Although ridding Syria of chemical weapons is a good thing,
this process also risks weakening and diverting efforts to end
the Syrian civil war. The Security Council resolution devotes
only two out of 22 paragraphs to this goal. One endorses the
moribund  Geneva Communique  from last June that calls for the
establishment of a transitional governing body made up of
government and opposition figures; the other calls for an
international conference to figure out how to implement it. Left
only to that track, the effort to end the war in Syria will
result in another 100,000 Syrian men, women and children killed.  In the near term, Syrian President Bashar al-Assad will not
voluntarily agree to any kind of meaningful transition. Instead,
he will use the rehabilitation conferred on him by his
cooperation as a cover to continue and perhaps intensify the
killing.  The lessons of the past must be applied. Only by
threatening military action to degrade Assad’s ability to wage
war and stepping up the arming of the opposition to defend
itself can the international community alter Assad’s calculus so
that he does not need to negotiate an end to the crisis.  That marriage of force and diplomacy is the only acceptable
endgame in  Syria . The question is how long the international
community will sit on the sidelines while the killing continues.  (Nancy Soderberg is chairman of the Public Interest
Declassification Board and a visiting scholar at the University
of North Florida. She served as deputy national security
adviser, then as an ambassador to the United Nations from 1993
to 2001.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Nancy Soderberg at  n.soderberg@unf.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 