-- Arizona Sheriff Arpaio to Be Overseen by Federal Monitor
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-10-03T00:58:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/arizona-sheriff-arpaio-to-be-overseen-by-federal-monitor.html
Joseph Arpaio, the sheriff in  Arizona 
who was found at trial to have violated the civil rights of
Latinos, will be overseen by a monitor appointed by a federal
judge.  U.S. District Judge G. Murray Snow in Phoenix today issued
an order saying he will appoint an independent monitor to ensure
that the Maricopa County Sheriff’s Office implements court-ordered changes in its policies and procedures and refrains from
racial profiling and discriminatory policing.  “MCSO shall deliver police services consistent with the
Constitution and laws of the  United States  and State of
Arizona,” the judge said. “In conducting its activities, MCSO
shall ensure that members of the public receive equal protection
of the law, without discriminating based on actual or perceived
race or ethnicity.”  Arpaio, who calls himself “America’s toughest sheriff,”
is appealing the decision by Snow in May that his office
violated the constitutional rights of Latinos stopped during
“saturation patrols.” The judge agreed with a group of Latinos
who had sued Arpaio that deputies can’t legally stop and detain
them only on the suspicion they were undocumented immigrants.  Arpaio’s department covers Arizona’s biggest county by
population, with 3.8 million residents. His methods, including
the saturation patrols or “crime suppression” sweeps in
predominantly Latino areas in and around Phoenix, have made him
a hero to groups seeking a crackdown on unauthorized entrants to
the U.S. and a target of advocates for immigrants’ rights.  Sheriff’s Office  “We’re very pleased with the court’s order,” Tim Casey, a
lawyer for Arpaio and the sheriff’s office, said in a phone
interview. “Sheriff Arpaio is still exclusively in charge of
the Maricopa County Sheriff’s Office.”  Casey said the office will follow “the letter and the
spirit” of the judge’s order while it pursues its appeal of the
underlying case.  Dan Pochoda, legal director of the  American Civil Liberties
Union  of Arizona, said “Judge Snow recognized that Sheriff
Arpaio’s years of discriminatory practices and unconstitutional
policies required major change -- including appointment of a
federal monitor, data collection and video recording for every
vehicle stop,” according to a statement.  The case is Melendres v. Arpaio, 07-02513, U.S. District
Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in the Los Angeles federal courthouse
at   epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  