-- Aussie Drops Versus Peers as Trade, Building Data Miss Forecasts
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-10-02T06:51:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/aussie-rises-for-second-day-versus-n-z-peer-before-trade-data.html
Australia ’s dollar retreated from a
one-week high versus its U.S. peer after reports today showed
the nation had a bigger-than-expected trade deficit in August
and building approvals climbed less than economists forecast.  The Aussie slid against most of its 16 major counterparts,
reversing gains from yesterday after the  Reserve Bank of
Australia  kept borrowing costs unchanged. New Zealand’s kiwi
weakened for a second day versus the greenback after John McDermott, assistant governor and head of economics at the
nation’s central bank, said the neutral  interest rate  appears to
have fallen, reflecting weaker productivity growth.  “The economy is still going to need to do more work and
that’s where the RBA has to come into the equation with
additional interest-rate cuts,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a
currency strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Singapore.
“That’s got to probably weigh on Aussie dollar sentiment.”  The Australian dollar declined 0.4 percent to 93.58 U.S.
cents as of 4:44 p.m. in Sydney after touching 94.35 yesterday,
the most since Sept. 23. New Zealand’s currency dropped 0.6
percent to 82.24 U.S. cents.  Australia’s  10-year (GACGB10)  government bond yield was unchanged at
3.94 percent after earlier reaching 4 percent, a level unseen
since Sept. 18. The yield on debt due in three years peaked at
2.96 percent, the highest since Sept. 11.  New Zealand’s two-year  swap rate , a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates, fell 1 1/2 basis points, or 0.015
percentage point, to 3.44 percent.  Data Miss  The  trade deficit  in Australia was A$815 million ($763
million) in August from a revised A$1.38 billion the previous
month, the statistics bureau said today. That compares with the
median estimate for a A$400 million shortfall by economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  A separate report showed the number of  permits  granted to
build or renovate houses and apartments rose 7.7 percent in
August from a year earlier, missing analyst forecasts for a 12.8
percent gain. Permits increased a revised 28.8 percent in July.  “The external balance is still a negative for the Aussie,
and of course the domestic side remains fragile,” Callum Henderson, the global head of currencies research at Standard
Chartered Plc in Singapore, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview today. “The big trend in the Australian dollar is
still down.”  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board held the bank’s
benchmark at a record-low 2.5 percent yesterday, saying earlier
cuts are still filtering through the economy.  Rate Call  National Australia Bank Ltd. said it expects a rate
reduction in February 2014, according to a report today by
economists led by  Alan Oster .  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled
by Bloomberg show traders see a 45 percent chance policy makers
will cut rates to 2.25 percent or lower by then, from 62 percent
odds yesterday.  The Aussie has fallen 8.7 percent this year versus nine
other developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, the second-worst performance
within the gauges. New Zealand’s kiwi has climbed 1.8 percent.  The kiwi held losses versus its U.S. peer after the  Reserve
Bank  of New Zealand’s McDermott said the bank “believes that
interest-rate settings should remain stimulatory for some time
yet” in a  speech  today.  “Lower neutral interest rates imply that the interest
rates faced by household and businesses over the longer haul are
likely to be lower than in the past,” McDermott said. “But
interest rates will still need to be adjusted in response to the
state of the economy.”  The neutral rate is where monetary policy doesn’t restrain
or stimulate the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  