-- Iron-Ore Forecasts Raised by Australia as China Demand Jumps
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-10-02T12:18:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/australia-increases-iron-ore-estimate-on-chinese-demand-outlook.html
Australia , the largest  iron-ore 
exporter, raised its price estimates for the steelmaking raw
material as surging Chinese consumption absorbs increased
supplies of the world’s biggest commodity cargo after oil.  Prices will average $119 a metric ton in 2014 from a $112
forecast in June, the  Bureau  of Resources and Energy Economics
said in a report today. The commodity will average $121 this
year compared with $117 estimated in June, the Canberra-based
bureau said. China will  import  872 million tons next year, 8.3
percent more than previously forecast, and by 2018 shipments
from overseas may increase to almost 1 billion tons, it said.  Iron ore entered a  bull market  in July as users in  China 
replenished stockpiles that shrank in March to the lowest level
since 2009. Morgan Stanley said last month that the commodity
will be supported into the first half of 2014 before a global
surplus emerges, while Citigroup Inc. and BHP Billiton Ltd. have
bearish short-term views as mining companies boost output.  “It would take a complete collapse in Chinese steel
production for iron-ore prices to really see a major move lower
because inventory levels for iron and steel are quite low,”
said Joel Crane, a Melbourne-based analyst at Morgan Stanley.
Market conditions in the first half of next year will be similar
to those at present, and iron-ore prices are expected to average
between $110 and current levels, he said.  Iron ore  with 62 percent content delivered to the Chinese
port of Tianjin was unchanged at $134.40 a ton today, according
to The Steel Index Ltd. Prices have rallied 19 percent from this
year’s low on May 31. The bureau’s price forecasts refer to ore
with 62 percent content free-on-board Australia.  Emerging Markets  Australia may ship 570 million tons of ore this year, up 16
percent from 2012, and 669 million tons in 2014, the bureau
said. The country’s exports are projected to rise at an average
annual rate of 8 percent a year from 2014 to 2018, it said.  Emerging-markets  demand and supply constraints mean it’s
premature to talk about the end of the super cycle that brought
a longer-than-average period of rising  commodity prices ,
McKinsey & Co. said Sept. 26. China’s growth will hold above 7
percent through 2015, forecasts compiled by Bloomberg show, and
the Manila-based  Asian Development Bank  said today that China
was expected to grow 7.6 percent this year.  The global seaborne iron-ore market is seen shifting to
oversupply next year as producers from BHP to  Rio Tinto (RIO)  Group
and Vale SA deliver capacity expansions. The surplus will reach
82 million tons in 2014 and expand through 2017, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. said in July. Citigroup last month forecast prices at
$115 in three months on the expected surge in seaborne supply.  Steel Quality  Chinese  steel mills  are expected to increase their reliance
on imported iron ore as local grades and production drop, and
steel producers seek to boost the quality of their output, the
bureau said. Steel output in China, the largest producer, will
expand 3.4 percent to 788 million tons in 2014, it forecast.  Rio Tinto , the second-biggest iron-ore exporter, officially
opened the Cape Lambert wharf in  Western Australia  today, part
of its expansion in the Pilbara to 290 million tons of capacity,
according to a statement. Rio’s mines in Western Australia
produced a total of 239 million tons last year.  Increased supplies have “exerted downward pressure on many
commodity markets more recently and we expect this trend to
continue over the short term,”  BHP (BHP)  Chairman Jac Nasser said in
the Melbourne-based company’s annual report on Sept. 25. BHP is
the world’s third-largest iron-ore exporter.  Stockpiles in China  stood at 70 million tons in the week
ended Sept. 27, down from a seven-month high in the period to
Aug. 30, according to Beijing Antaike Information Development.
Inventories are still 24 percent below a year earlier.  Iron ore can be measured in dry tons, or metric tons less
moisture. At Tianjin port moisture can account for 8 percent to
10 percent of the ore’s weight.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  