-- Autodesk Billings to Rise 12% a Year Through 2018
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2013-10-02T21:32:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/autodesk-billings-to-rise-12-a-year-through-2018.html
Autodesk Inc. (ADSK) , a maker of
architectural and engineering software, said billings will rise
at an average annual rate of 12 percent through fiscal 2018 as
the company shifts to selling more software subscriptions.  Autodesk, which currently has 1.9 million subscribers,
expects a 50 percent increase in that number through fiscal
2018, Andrew Anagnost, senior vice president of industry
strategy and marketing, said in an interview ahead of the
company’s investor day today.  The San Rafael, California-based company last month
introduced subscription versions of some of its most expensive
software. The move reflects a broader trend across the software
industry, which is shifting toward subscription payments for
online and desktop software as consumers and businesses seek
access to a steady stream of new features instead of being stuck
with one version of a software package.  Autodesk is facing declining sales and  profit  this year.
The change will make it easier and cheaper for customers using
old versions of the company’s products and will attract new
consumers, Anagnost said.  “A customer that comes and joins as a renter is much more
valuable over a number of years,” he said.  New Guidance  The company today also reiterated its third-quarter
guidance and said it projects fourth-revenue of $560 million to
$580 million and earnings per share of 9 cents to 16 cents. That
was below analysts’ estimates of fourth-quarter revenue of
$603.4 million and earnings of 29 cents, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Autodesk shares rose 5.1 percent to $42.55 at the close in
New York. The  stock  has gained 20 percent this year.  Autodesk has many customers who are on older products, he
said. While some pay a maintenance fee, that’s smaller than the
annual rental fee for the new Internet-based versions.  Selling more Internet-based services may increase costs
because they are generally more expensive to deliver, Anagnost
said, yet the company expects that to “wash out” as Autodesk
gets more users for the services.  Autodesk’s sales are projected to decline 1 percent to
 $2.28 billion  for the current fiscal year that runs through
January, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  