-- Taxing Severance, Iceland Bank Tax, CFTC: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-10-02T11:46:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/taxing-severance-iceland-bank-tax-cftc-compliance.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  agreed to
consider whether companies and employees must pay Social
Security taxes on severance compensation, accepting a case that
may force the Treasury to give billions of dollars in refunds.  The justices yesterday said they will hear the appeal from
President  Barack Obama ’s administration in a case involving
Quality Stores Inc., once the country’s largest agricultural
specialty retailer.  The issue has grown in importance with the  layoffs  that
have accompanied the economic slowdown over the past five years.
The administration says that more than 2,400 refund claims,
seeking more than $1 billion, are already in the pipeline and
those figures will increase.  The question for the Supreme Court is whether severance
payments qualify as “wages,” making them subject to tax, under
the Federal Insurance Contributions Act, or FICA.  The administration contends that FICA defines “wages”
broadly to include compensation for services of any type. The
Quality Stores payments were compensation to employees for
service they had rendered, U.S. Solicitor General Donald
Verrilli argued for the administration.  Quality Stores contends that the payments represented
supplemental unemployment compensation, not wages. The payments
“are not made for employment but rather for the elimination of
employment,” Quality Stores argued in court papers.  The company, which had sales of $1.1 billion in 2000,
closed more than 300 stores in 2001 and 2002 and fired its
remaining employees, making severance payments to 3,100 people.  The company paid the disputed taxes and then sought a $1
million refund. Some of that money would go to former employees
if the company prevails in the case.  The court will hear arguments early next year and rule by
July. The case is U.S. v. Quality Stores, 12-1408.  Compliance Policy  BOE May Seek Management Change at Banks Failing Stress Tests  The  Bank of England  said regulators may take steps to
remove bank executives if stress tests reveal weaknesses in
their governance and capital-planning processes.  In a discussion paper on planned tests, the BOE said
financial institutions should have at least enough capital to
absorb losses in a stressed scenario, and that this could be
higher than international minimums. Banks that fail may be
forced to limit bonuses and dividend payments, issue equity or
other capital instruments, or reduce certain risk exposures.  The BOE’s Financial Policy Committee, set up as part of an
overhaul of banking regulation, recommended earlier this year
that banks be tested for resilience to shocks. The first tests
will take place next year and cover Britain’s  eight biggest
lenders . The central bank said today that institutions are
making progress toward meeting regulators’ capital requirements
and that it will continue to monitor the situation.  In the discussion paper, the BOE said during previous
stress tests, the Prudential Regulation Authority noted
“insufficient engagement” by banks’ boards and senior
management as well as evidence that the scenarios set by lenders
were too weak.  The BOE also said it expects the stress tests to take place
on an annual basis. A more frequent program would “entail
material resource costs” and could compromise the quality of
the process. It also said there are both “benefits and costs”
to publishing the detailed results of stress tests. It is
seeking responses to its paper by January 2014.  For more, click here.  Dark Pools Face Finra Requirement to Report U.S. Market Share  U.S. securities regulators issued a proposal requiring
private venues including dark pools to release more data,
including weekly volume reports and disclosures on how much
trading of each stock they handle.  The rules, if approved by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, would shed light on operators that have historically
faced no obligation to publicly report their market share, so
information has either been self-reported or estimated by
analysts. The shift applies to dark pools and venues known as
alternative trading systems, not the transactions broker-dealers
handle within their walls via a process called internalization.  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the private-sector overseer of U.S. brokerages, announced the proposed rules
in a  filing  dated Sept. 29. If approved, Finra would start
releasing data to the public on a two- or four-week delay
depending on the stock.  Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP runs an alternative
trading system called  Bloomberg Tradebook .  Under existing rules, Finra can’t be sure which private
venue handled a given trade. The new system would introduce
unique identifier codes for each market.  Finra said it may consider expanding disclosure. The
proposed rules would take effect 90 days after publication of a
notice announcing SEC approval.  Finra’s decision comes with the SEC poised to issue
research from its new system for monitoring markets, including a
look at practices that some blame for giving high-speed traders
an unfair edge.  SEC Once Slowed by Data Gap to Report High-Speed Trader Research  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission will soon issue
research from its new system for monitoring markets, including a
look at practices that some blame for giving high-speed traders
an unfair edge.  The reports will use data from the SEC’s Midas market-surveillance system, according to two people briefed on the
plans. The findings could help inform whether new regulations
are needed to address strategies such as canceling a high
percentage of orders, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the plan isn’t ready to be announced.  The SEC lacked such a tool during the May 2010 plunge known
as the flash crash, when the agency was criticized for taking
four months to report the cause of turbulence that erased about
$862 billion in U.S. equity value in minutes before share prices
recovered.  The SEC acquired its Midas system last year from high-frequency trading firm and technology vendor Tradeworx Inc.
Midas, an acronym for Market Information Data Analytics System,
collects about 1 billion trading records a day from 13 U.S.
equity exchanges, which sell similar data to high-speed firms
and brokers that want information milliseconds before the
public.  Midas provides the regulator with more complete data than
traders and researchers can see from the public feeds operated
by  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , SEC Associate
Director Gregg E. Berman has said.  For more, click here.  Iceland Sees Budget Surplus in 2014 After Taxing Failed Banks  Iceland’s government predicted it will be able to balance
its budget next year raising taxes on the lenders that failed in
its 2008 collapse.  The budget will show a surplus of 500 million kronur ($4.2
million) in 2014, the  Finance Ministry  in Reykjavik said
yesterday. Income will reach 587.6 billion kronur and spending
587.1 billion kronur. The ministry expects a surplus of 2.6
billion kronur, or 0.1 percent of gross domestic product, in
2015. That compares with an estimated 31.1 billion-krona deficit
this year.  The new government, which was elected in April on pledges
to boost economic growth and complete the island’s re-emergence
from the 2008 economic collapse, also said it will cut income
taxes next year.  Iceland is struggling to remove capital controls put in
place in 2008 after the krona plunged as much as 80 percent
against the euro offshore. The restrictions are stopping as much
as $8 billion in kronur assets from being exchanged, according
to an estimate by Arion Bank hf.  The government will raise the tax on bank assets to 0.145
percent, which will also be imposed on the failed banks in
winding-up proceedings, increasing revenue by 13 billion kronur.
Kaupthing Bank Hf, Glitnir Bank Hf and Landsbanki Islands hf all
defaulted on a combined $85 billion in 2008, forcing the island
to seek an economic bailout.  Finance Minister Bjarni Benediktsson introduced his
proposed 2014 budget to parliament yesterday.  Compliance Action  Whistle-Blower Awarded $14 Million in Largest-Ever SEC Payout  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission awarded more
than $14 million to a whistle-blower whose tip allowed
regulators to recover investor funds through an enforcement
case, the agency said in a statement yesterday.  The award is the largest ever made by the SEC, which was
given authority in the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial regulation law
to reward people who come forward and provide original
information that leads to successful enforcement actions. The
agency can issue awards that are between 10 and 30 percent of
the money collected from the wrongdoer.  The SEC’s announcement didn’t name the whistle-blower or
the case that resulted from the tip.  The agency received 3,001 whistle-blower complaints last
year.  Japan to Raise Limits on ATM Fees using Sales Tax, Jiji Says  Japan’s Financial Services Agency will begin amending
regulations that set limits on automated teller machine fees
because the government has decided to raise the  sales tax , Jiji
reported, without citing anyone.  Fee limits are to be raised to 108 yen from 105 yen on
deposits or withdrawals of 10,000 yen or less. Fee limits will
be raised to 216 yen from 210 yen on transactions of more than
10,000 yen, Jiji reported.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said yesterday the government
will raise the sales tax to 8 percent in April from the current
5 percent.  South Africa Investigates 12 Possible Cases of Insider Trading  The  South Africa Financial Services Board  is investigating
12 possible cases of  insider trading , according to an e-mailed
statement from the regulator.  The board is also looking into eight possible cases of
market manipulation and three possible instances of false or
misleading reporting, the regulator said in the statement. The
probes into trading concern shares on the  Johannesburg Stock
Exchange .  Courts  Reserve Fund Judge Imposes $750,000 in Civil Penalties  Two companies that managed Reserve Primary Fund, the $62.5
billion money-market fund that “broke the buck” and failed in
2008 when its net asset value fell below $1, were ordered to pay
part of $750,000 in civil penalties.  U.S. District Judge Paul Gardephe in Manhattan Sept. 30
imposed a $100,000 fine against former Reserve president Bruce
R. Bent II and fines of $325,000 each on Reserve Management Co.
Inc. and Resrv Partners Inc. The SEC had asked for more than
$130 million in penalties.  In a series of rulings in the case Sept. 30, Gardephe
declined to order Bent and the two companies to disgorge any
money and said he won’t enter a permanent order barring them
from violating securities laws in the future.  In November, a jury in Manhattan found Bruce Bent II
negligent on a single claim of violating securities law while
absolving his father, Bruce R. Bent, of all claims in the SEC’s
suit. The jury of six women and one man cleared both Bents of
claims they defrauded investors.  Gardephe on Sept. 30 also denied the SEC’s request to
overturn jury findings in favor of RMCI and Resrv Partners or to
order a new trial.  “We are gratified that the SEC’s motion for a new trial
was denied and that the penalty assessed by the judge is less
than 1 percent of what the SEC sought,” Richard A. Mahony, a
spokesman for the Bents, said in an e-mail. “Investors have
already received more than 99 percent of their investment from
2008.”  Christina A. D’Amico, a spokeswoman for the SEC, said the
agency is “pleased the court rejected the defendants’ motion to
overturn the jury’s verdict that the corporate entities
committed fraud on investors in the wake of the Lehman
collapse.”  The case is SEC v. Reserve Management Co., 09-cv-04346,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Fabrice Tourre Asks for Reversal, New Trial in SEC Case  Fabrice Tourre, the ex- Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  vice
president found liable for his role in a failed $1 billion
investment, asked for a reversal of the verdict and a new trial
of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission case.  Tourre, 34, is entitled to a judgment in his favor under
civil rules if a court finds that a reasonable jury wouldn’t
perceive enough evidence against him, one of his lawyers,  Pamela
Chepiga , said in a memorandum filed with U.S. District Court in
Manhattan Sept. 30.  Chepiga said in a filing asking U.S. District Judge
Katherine Forrest to dismiss the SEC claims that the agency
failed to show evidence of liability, including “any intent to
defraud.”  The SEC accused Tourre, a native of France, of
intentionally misleading investors in a subprime mortgage entity
called Abacus about the role played by the Paulson & Co. hedge
fund, which helped choose the portfolio of securities and then
made a billion-dollar bet it would fail.  Jurors in the case determined Aug. 1 that Tourre couldn’t
hide behind his age and relative lack of stature within Goldman
Sachs to avoid responsibility. Tourre faces unspecified fines
and potential exclusion from the securities industry.  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-cv-03229, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Interviews/Hearings  Banks May Need Capital Backstops for Stress Test, Enria Says  European banks may need to raise capital after combined
stress tests and asset quality reviews from the European Banking
Authority and  European Central Bank  next year, said Andrea
Enria, the EBA chairman.  The EBA’s stress test and ECB’s asset quality review will
“run in the same time,” Enria told lawmakers in Brussels Sept.
30, with the two institutions preparing a “single outcome” for
each bank.  As the ECB prepares to take over supervision of all euro-area lenders in 2014, it will begin a three-phased analysis of
the institutions coming under its umbrella. As laid out by
Executive Board member Yves Mersch in August, the central bank
will start with a risk review before analyzing banks’ balance
sheets and conducting stress tests in collaboration with the
London-based EBA.  The Single Supervisory Mechanism is a step toward a planned
European banking union that is supposed to sever the link
between banks and sovereign debt.  The quality of next year’s European bank stress tests
depends on how well the European Central Bank carries out its
review of lenders’ balance sheets, Enria said, responding to
questions from lawmakers in the European Parliament Sept. 30.  Enria, previously head of the supervisory regulations and
policies department at the Bank of Italy, said he’s “still
dreaming of the moment when we will have a European backstop in
place.”  Vitol Sees U.S. Investment Banks Diminishing Commodity Activity  European Union draft proposals on derivatives regulation
have raised concerns that commodity trading liquidity could
worsen significantly, Vitol Group CEO  Ian Taylor  said at the Oil
& Money conference in London.  “I worry it will make our business much more difficult and
probably push up prices,” Taylor said.  “The U.S. should scrap Jones Act and allow crude oil
exports,” Taylor added.  Comings and Goings  CFTC Enforcement Chief David Meister to Step Down This Month  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s  David
Meister , the enforcement chief who pursued investigations of MF
Global Holdings Ltd. and interest-rate manipulations, plans to
step down this month.  Gretchen Lowe, the enforcement division’s chief counsel,
will serve as acting director after he departs, the CFTC said
yesterday in a statement. Meister, who previously worked as a
federal prosecutor and attorney in private practice, hasn’t
announced other plans, said  Steve Adamske , an agency spokesman.  The probe into manipulation of the London interbank offered
rate and other benchmarks was among the widest-ranging in CFTC
history. The agency began the investigation in 2008 and, on
Meister’s watch, was among regulators that reached more than
$2.5 billion in settlements with  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc , UBS AG and  ICAP Plc. (IAP)   Meister, praised by CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  as tough and
fair, said in the statement that the time had come to return
full time to his family in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  