-- Bain Capital’s Burlington Surges After $227 Million Offering
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r ,   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   M i n s i   C h u n g
-- 2013-10-02T20:13:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/bain-capital-s-burlington-surges-after-227-million-share-sale.html
Burlington Stores Inc. (BURL)  surged in its
debut, after raising $226.7 million in the first initial public
offering of a brick-and-mortar retailer acquired by  Bain Capital 
LLC during the buyout boom.  The stock jumped 47 percent to $25.01 at the close in  New
York . Known for its Burlington Coat Factory stores, the retailer
sold 13.3 million shares for $17 each, above the marketed range
of $14 to $16. Bain Capital didn’t sell any of its 54.4 million
shares in the IPO.  Bain Capital acquired Burlington, Toys “R” Us Inc.,
 Michaels Stores Inc. (MIK)  and Guitar Center Inc. in deals valued at
$17 billion between 2004 and 2007. Exiting these investments has
proven a challenge as sales growth at chain stores was hit by
the shift to online shopping. Bain Capital and its partners
tried to take Toys “R” Us public in 2010, while Michaels has
yet to proceed with an IPO that it filed for in March 2012.  “It’s the perfect time for Bain and Burlington to do an
IPO,” said Burt Flickinger, managing director at Strategic
Resource Group, a consumer-industry consulting firm, who works
with Burlington’s suppliers. “Retail is still turning the wrong
way, but off-price retail is the only area that’s turning the
right way, and Burlington can participate in that.”  Discount Prices  Burlington offers apparel, accessories, home goods and
coats for as much as 70 percent off department-store prices,
according to the IPO filing. The company posted a loss of $30.6
million in the six months to Aug. 3, compared with a loss of
$35.2 million a year earlier, its IPO filing showed.  Charlyn Lusk, a spokeswoman with Stanton Public Relations &
Marketing, which represents Boston-based Bain Capital, declined
to comment on the Burlington IPO.  Bain Capital wasn’t alone in the wave of retailer
purchases, with total private-equity spending on brick-and-mortar stores reaching $36 billion between 2004 and 2007, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Among the specialty retailers that
remain private: Apollo Global Management LLC’s Claire’s Inc.,
and Petco Animal Supplies Inc., which is also owned by Leonard
Green & Partners and TPG Capital.  At $17 a share, Burlington has an enterprise value of about
$2.71 billion, based on terms in the original filing. That
compares with the $2.1 billion that Bain Capital paid for the
Burlington, New Jersey-based retailer in April 2006, according
to a statement at the time.  Rising Sales  Burlington’s sales have risen for each of the last three
years, its IPO filing shows. Revenue reached $2 billion in the
six months through Aug. 3, up nearly 10 percent from a year
earlier.  “We have been working really hard on transforming the
company,” Thomas Kingsbury, chief executive officer of
Burlington, said in a phone interview. “We have put a lot of
things in place like changing the look of our stores and being
more of an off-price retailer than we were back in 2008.”  Burlington plans to use the proceeds from the offering to
redeem $170.6 million in senior notes, the IPO  filing  shows.
Bain Capital will hold a 76 percent stake in the company before
the overallotment option is exercised, according to the filing.  Bain Capital helped pave the way for the specialty retail
model, co-founding  Staples Inc. (SPLS)  in 1986. The industry
transformed during the recession when frugal consumers opted to
shop online, where they could more easily compare prices.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley and Bank of America
Corp. managed the IPO. Burlington is listed on the New York
Stock Exchange under the symbol BURL.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Minsi Chung in New York at 
 mchung82@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  