-- Bakken Crude Weakens to 15-Month Low as Canadian Output Rises
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h   a n d   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-10-02T20:34:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/bakken-crude-weakens-to-15-month-low-as-canadian-output-rises.html
Bakken crude weakened relative to
U.S. benchmark prices to the lowest level in more than 15 months
as Canadian light oil production increased while Midwest
refineries reduced runs.  Bakken crude priced in Clearbrook, Minnesota, weakened by
50 cents to a discount of $10.50 a barrel at 2 p.m.  New York 
time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It’s the lowest
level since June 29, 2012. Bakken is a light, sweet crude
produced from the eponymous shale field in  North Dakota .  The Syncrude upgrader in Alberta, which converts oil sands
bitumen into light, sweet synthetic crude, said yesterday
 production  rose 39 percent to 291,000 barrels a day in September
from the previous month as it ramped up after maintenance.  Husky
Energy Inc. (HSE)  is scheduled this month to return the 82,000-barrel-a-day Lloydminster upgrader to service after a 45-day turnaround
and  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  is scheduled to finish maintenance at one
of its two Fort McMurray upgraders.  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  said shipments this month on Mainline lines 2
and 3, which transport a combined 678,700 barrels a day of light
and synthetic oil from Edmonton, Alberta, to Superior,
Wisconsin, were overbooked by 12 percent, meaning there was more
demand to ship than space available. The company’s heavy crude
export lines from Alberta weren’t overbooked.  Refineries in the U.S. Midwest  processed  3.38 million
barrels of crude a day in the week ending Sept. 27, the lowest
level since June, according to data released today by the Energy
Information Administration.  Northern Tier Energy LP (NTI) ’s St. Paul Park refinery in
Minnesota shut the larger of two crude units after a Sept. 22
fire. The unit is expected to be down three to four weeks, the
company said in a written statement.  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) ’s Memphis refinery is operating at
reduced rates as repairs on a sulfur recovery unit extend into a
third week, a person familiar with operations said Oct. 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  