-- Bank Credit-Card Fees Face New Scrutiny by Consumer Bureau
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-10-02T20:25:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/bank-credit-card-fees-face-new-scrutiny-by-u-s-consumer-bureau.html
Credit-card issuers may face new
limits on fees and greater disclosure requirements as the U.S.
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau pledges more scrutiny after
a 2009 law that revamped regulation of the business.  “The CARD Act brought better consumer protections and
fairness to the marketplace, but we found there is more work to
be done,” CFPB Director  Richard Cordray  said at an agency
hearing in  Chicago  today.  The Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and
Disclosure Act of 2009, limited lenders’ ability to raise
 interest rates , curbed late fees and forced issuers to seek
customers’ approval to apply over-limit fees. Now the bureau
will examine whether certain cards impose undue fees, and
whether issuers adequately disclose terms and conditions,
Cordray said.  New CFPB action on credit cards could affect major lenders
by limiting fees they can collect or restricting marketing
techniques. The six biggest U.S. credit-card issuers are
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
 American Express Co. (AXP) ,  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  and  Discover
Financial Services. (DFS)   The CFPB published a  report  on the card business today,
using data from before the 2009 law took effect through December
2012, Cordray said.  ‘Differing Interpretations’  William Johnson, chief executive officer of Citigroup’s
retail services unit, said that the legislation’s impact on the
availability and cost of credit is difficult to measure because
the economic downturn and higher  capital requirements  for banks
also play a role.  “The data is open to differing interpretations,” Johnson
said at the hearing.  Lauren Saunders, managing attorney at the National Consumer
Law Center, praised the Card Act for eliminating some practices.
She also said the industry needs to provide more flexibility for
borrowers who face financial hardship, and market less to people
who are carrying too much debt.  “The biggest overall problem is that it is still too easy
to get way over your head in credit-card debt, and too hard to
get out,” Saunders said at the hearing.  In his remarks, Cordray said the law saved consumers a
total of $4 billion in 2012 by cracking down on how late fees
and over-limit penalties are assessed, according to CFPB
research. The total cost of credit on the cards, which includes
all fees and finance charges, declined by two percentage points.  Better ‘Readability’  Cordray also complimented banks for voluntarily
streamlining their credit-card disclosure forms.  “The card agreements we studied from the largest card
issuers have decreased by more than 2,000 words on average and
that readability has gone up -- making the market more
accessible and transparent for consumers,” Cordray said in his
remarks. “This is not something the CARD Act required.”  The agency will “keep a close eye” on how card issuers
impose application fees, and whether they merit CFPB action,
Cordray said.  The 2009 law limits upfront fees that exceed 25 percent of
the card’s credit limit, a provision intended to stamp out what
were referred to in the report as “fee harvester” cards. Since
application fees are exempt from the limit, there is potential
for consumer harm, Cordray said.  Cordray also said that the CFPB will study “deferred
interest” cards that allow zero interest to start, but impose
interest retroactively if the balance is not paid by a certain
date. The data indicates that 40 percent of subprime borrowers
end up being charged the interest, Cordray said. The study
defined such borrowers as those with FICO scores below 659.  Disclosure Quality  The CFPB also is examining the quality of disclosures
lenders make about rewards programs associated with the cards,
and about payment grace periods.  The CFPB will maintain its crackdown on credit-card add-on
products, such as debt cancellation and credit monitoring,
Cordray said.  The agency has already brought cases against Capital One
and Discover for marketing such products in a deceptive manner.
JPMorgan agreed last month to pay $389 million in restitution
and penalties over allegations it unfairly charged customers for
credit monitoring products.  “We will continue to use both our supervisory and
enforcement authorities to protect consumers by rooting out
unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices,” Cordray said.  Cordray also deflected criticism that the CFPB is invading
Americans’ privacy in preparing the report, which used
“anonymized industry data.” The CFPB has used  Argus
Information & Advisory Services , a  White Plains , New York-based
consultancy, to collect information on credit-card usage.  “We never receive a card holder’s name or other direct or
unique identifiers, we never receive information describing the
specific transactions on any account, and we do not monitor any
individual’s financial transactions,” Cordray said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Maura Reynolds
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  