-- BASF Sees Likely Insecticide Tie-Ups as Big Crop Deals Ruled Out
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-10-02T12:02:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/basf-sees-likely-insecticide-tie-ups-as-big-crop-deals-ruled-out.html
BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s largest chemical
maker, will seek more partnerships to improve its insecticide
offerings as high prices in the crop-protection field make big
takeovers unlikely.  The company may look to exchange its expertize in
fungicides for knowledge in the insecticides segment, said
Markus Heldt, head of the crop protection division based in
Limburgerhof,  Germany .  “There is a relative weakness in our portfolio right now
when it comes to insecticides,” Heldt said at a media event,
adding that targets should not endanger a margin goal of 25
percent. “The big players are not interested in divesting their
plant protection units. We look at smaller deals to add
technology and competencies.”  BASF said today it plans to boost revenue at the crop-protection division to 8 billion euros by 2020, 2 billion euros
more than an earlier goal. The unit had some 4.7 billion euros
in sales last year, and the expansion to the end of the decade
can be achieved without deals, Heldt said. The Ludwigshafen,
Germany-based company already has exclusive rights to develop
and commercialize an insecticide outside of Japan, Taiwan and
South Korea for Meiji Seika Kaisha Ltd.  “In 2003 we greatly increased our research and development
activities in insecticides, but it takes far longer,” Heldt
said. “Because of the regulatory situation it’s a lot more
difficult.”  BASF plans to build a crop-protection chemical plant in
 China ’s Jiangsu Province, its first in Asia, as growing food
needs in the region boost demand for herbicides, it said in May.
The company, which spends 9 percent of revenue on research and
development at its insecticide, herbicide and fungicide unit, is
doubling its average annual spend on additional production sites
to 300 million euros.  The chemical maker is counting on Asia to be one of the
main growth drivers to help it achieve a goal of 110 billion
euros in revenue by the end of the decade. Within crop
protection,  emerging markets  as a whole should generate 50
percent of sales within a few years compared with about 43
percent currently.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  