-- Bayern Beats Man. City in Champions League as Ronaldo Leads Real
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-10-02T23:11:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/bayern-beats-man-city-in-champions-league-as-ronaldo-leads-real.html
Bayern Munich won 3-1 at Manchester
City in soccer’s Champions League, while Cristiano Ronaldo
continued his scoring spree as Real  Madrid  beat Copenhagen 4-0.  Goals from Franck Ribery, Thomas Mueller and Arjen Robben
last night gave defending champion Bayern its seventh
consecutive win in Europe’s elite club competition.  “We knew they were a good side and they showed it,” City
defender Micah Richards told Sky Sports. “That’s why they’re
the champions. We have to hold our hands up and say we got
beaten by the better team.”  Ronaldo scored twice, giving him a tournament-leading five
goals from two games, in Real’s home victory. Paris Saint-Germain beat Benfica 3-0, while Olympiacos won by the same score
at Anderlecht.  Bayer Leverkusen and CSKA Moscow also won, as Manchester
United drew 1-1 at Shakhtar Donetsk and Galatasaray used a late
goal to draw 2-2 at Juventus.  Two goals in a four-minute span of the second half helped
Bayern end Manchester City’s run of 20 games unbeaten at home in
European competition.  “When things go your way like they did today, it’s a lot
of fun out on the pitch, especially against a quality team like
Man City,” Robben said. “We didn’t expect it to be as
comfortable, but that’s also a complement to our team.”  Bayern Goals  Bayern went in front in the seventh minute as Ribery took a
pass on the left, cut inside and fired a shot from outside the
area between Joe Hart and the near post.  Mueller scored in the 56th minute as he took Dante’s lofted
pass behind the defense, went around Hart and put the ball into
the open net. Robben scored moments later after Toni Kroos stole
the ball in midfield.  Alvaro Negredo pulled a goal back for City in the 79th
minute, before Bayern’s Jerome Boateng was red-carded for taking
down Yaya Toure as the last man back.  Bayern tops  Group D  with six points, three more than City
and CSKA Moscow, which beat Viktoria Plzen 3-2.  Ronaldo scored in each half to give Real Madrid a 2-0 lead.
The Portuguese forward has 26 goals in his last 21 Champions
League matches and 55 for his career.  Angel Di Maria then scored twice to complete the rout and
leave Real with a four-point lead in Group B over Juventus.  Mancini’s Debut  Umut Bulut’s goal in the 88th minute gave Galatasaray the
away draw in Roberto Mancini’s first game as manager. The score
came one minute after Fabio Quagliarella put Juventus in front.  Shakhtar Donetsk earned the home draw with Manchester
United on Taison’s goal with 14 minutes remaining.  Danny Welbeck 
scored in the first half for United as Ryan Giggs made his
record 145th appearance in the Champions League to move one
ahead of Raul Gonzalez.  The draw leaves Shakhtar and United tied atop Group A with
four points. Bayer Leverkusen is a point behind after beating
Real Sociedad on Jens Hegeler’s goal in stoppage time.  “Four points from the first two games is OK, considering
we were away at Shakhtar,” Welbeck said on the website of
tournament organizer UEFA. “We are a bit disappointed as we are
Manchester United and want to win every game, but we have to be
satisfied with a point.”  PSG sits atop Group C with six points after two goals from
Zlatan Ibrahimovic helped it beat Benfica. Kostas Mitroglou
scored three goals as Olympiacos won at Anderlecht to tie
Benfica for second place on three points.  Arsenal, Atletico Madrid, Barcelona and Schalke all won two
days ago to stay perfect through two games. The next round of
group matches will be played Oct. 22 and 23. The top two teams
in each of the eight groups advance to the round of 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net .
NI SOCCER
NI EFB
NI EFBMATCH
NI CHAMPS
NI EFBSPAIN
NI EFBITALY
NI EFBDUTCH
NI EFBPORT
NI EFBFRA
NI EFBMISC
NI BFBNEWS
NI BFBTEAMS
NI BFBMATCH
NI MANUTD
NI JUVENTUS
NI REAL
NI PAG
NI BAYERN
NI MANCITY
NI EUROPE 