-- Bernanke Says ‘Frustratingly Slow’ Growth Hurts Small Banks
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-10-02T19:56:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/bernanke-says-frustratingly-slow-growth-challenges-small-banks.html
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said community banks face big challenges including slow
economic growth and compliance with stiffer regulation.  “Community bankers today confront a frustratingly slow
recovery, stiff competition from larger banks and other
financial institutions, and the responsibility of complying with
new and existing regulations,” Bernanke said today in a speech
at the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. The central bank chief
didn’t comment on monetary policy.  Smaller U.S. banks have said regulatory changes such as
Basel III capital requirements and the Dodd-Frank Act financial
overhaul put them at a disadvantage because they lack the
resources to meet the tougher rules. That hasn’t held back their
profits or the shares, which are beating larger lenders and the
broader stock market this year.  The Standard & Poor’s SmallCap Banks Index of 48 firms with
market values less than $2.5 billion has rallied 27 percent
through yesterday,  compared with  a 22 percent gain for S&P’s
gauge of the largest American financial firms and the 19 percent
rise by the  S&P 500 (SPX)  Index.  Almost all of the  banks in the
SmallCap index are up this year, while  Glacier Bancorp Inc. (GBCI)  of
Kalispell,  Montana , and six others climbed at least 50 percent.  The S&P 500 declined 0.3 percent to 1,689.67 at 3:50 p.m.
in New York after Bernanke’s remarks, while the yield on the
benchmark 10-year Treasury note slumped three basis points to
2.62 percent, near a seven-week low.  Trading Profits  U.S. banks reported record net income of $42.2 billion for
the second quarter on profits from trading securities, the
 Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  said Aug. 29.  Banks’ earnings for the three months ending June 30 marked
a second consecutive record quarter, the FDIC said in its
Quarterly Banking Profile. After the second-most profitable year
on record in 2012, the boom continued in the first half of this
year as some of the largest banks scored trading success
outpacing analyst expectations.  Bernanke testified to Congress in July that the central
bank has been responsive to the concerns of community banks. The
Fed tries to balance its support for small banks in rural areas
with ensuring the institutions are sufficiently capitalized to
survive “difficult periods,” Bernanke said to the House
Financial Services Committee in semi-annual testimony.  Lawmakers including Senator Tim Johnson, a South Dakota
Democrat and chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, said this
year regulators should go easy on community banks and insurers
as the agencies finish capital rules for financial institutions.  Implementation Challenge  Small banks may find parts of the so-called Basel III rules
difficult to implement, Johnson and Senator Mike Crapo, the
committee’s senior Republican member from  Idaho , said in a
February letter to leaders of federal agencies including the
central bank.  The Fed is working to understand the concerns of small
banks and to craft “regulations that are appropriately scaled
to banks’ size and complexity,” Bernanke said. The central bank
created the Community Depository Institutions Advisory Council
made up of representatives of small banks, thrifts and credit
unions from each of the 12 regional Fed banks, Bernanke said.
Members meet with the Fed board twice a year.  Bernanke spoke at the St. Louis Fed’s conference on
“Community Banking in the 21st Century,” a research and policy
conference for bankers, regulators and academics.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in  New York  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Matthews in Atlanta  at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  