-- Biggest Diamond Miner Alrosa Plans Over $1 Billion Offering
-- B y   R y a n   C h i l c o t e   a n d   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-10-02T08:39:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/biggest-diamond-miner-alrosa-set-for-over-1-billion-share-sale.html
Russia  is to offer investors shares
in OAO Alrosa, expanding access to the world’s biggest diamond
producer as the government seeks to revive asset sales.  A combined 14 percent stake in Alrosa will be sold by the
Russian government and the Republic of Yakutia, in the country’s
 Far East , where its main mines are located, the diamond producer
said today in a statement. Alrosa itself will sell about 2
percent of treasury stock, with proceeds used to reduce debt, it
said. The stock will trade in Moscow.  The stake in Alrosa, one of the few publicly traded miners
focused purely on diamonds, may fetch more than $1 billion,
according to Deutsche Bank AG in Moscow. Pre-marketing is set to
start this week, two people said last month.  “For a market, $1 billion is quite an acceptable size for
investors,” Chief Executive Officer Fyodor Andreev said in an
interview with Bloomberg TV in Moscow, when asked why a larger
stake isn’t being offered.  Russia is struggling to ramp up an asset sale program aimed
at balancing the budget and attracting investment to its
financial markets, the cheapest among emerging market peers. The
 Finance Ministry  last week cut its target for budget revenue
from sales this year by 86 percent to 60 billion rubles ($1.9
billion), meaning Alrosa may account for more than half.  Russia will maintain control of Mirny-based Alrosa, which
produces a quarter of the world’s diamonds by value and more
rough diamonds than De Beers by carat. The sale will be the
second major state asset offered this year. VTB Group sold a
$3.3 billion stake in May, used to boost the bank’s capital.  Gradual Privatization  “Step-by-step privatization is a very good strategy for
all government companies,” Andreev said. “Big privatization
will be a big risk as who will be an owner? An oligarch? A
foreign company?”  When President  Vladimir Putin  came to power in 2000, he
made a priority of reining in billionaires who made fortunes
through privatization deals in the 1990s, responding to
widespread resentment in the country. To safeguard resource
wealth seen as Russia’s heritage, Putin has put in place legal
barriers to keep foreign investors from gaining control of
strategic assets.  Alrosa is 50.9 percent owned by Russia and 32 percent by
the Republic of Yakutia. The federal and regional governments
will each sell 7 percent stakes, adding to the current 9 percent
free-float, which includes shares owned by its workers.
Municipal districts within Yakutia own 8 percent of Alrosa.  ‘Unique Asset’  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. was selected in February to handle
the offering. Putin called in January for state asset sales to
take place mainly on Russian exchanges.  “The asset is unique and we expect demand to be good,”
said  George Buzhenitsa , a Deutsche Bank analyst in Moscow.  Alrosa has gained 29 percent this year, while the benchmark
Micex Index is little changed and the Bloomberg World Mining
Index has plunged to 25 percent. Alrosa advanced 6.2 percent by
12:18 p.m. in Moscow.  Unlike De Beers, which has a diamond-polishing business,
Alrosa is concentrating purely on mining, with no plans to
diversify into other natural resources or to expand its
manufacturing business. The emphasis on mining helps to keep
margins high, CEO Andreev said. Alrosa recorded an earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization margin of 40
percent for 2012.  The Russian company produced 34.4 million carats of
diamonds last year, surpassing  De Beers ’ 27.9 million carats. De
Beers, 85 percent owned by London-based  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , had
higher sales, posting revenue of $6 billion compared with $4.8
billion for Alrosa.  Gas, Ore  Alrosa’s approach differs from De Beers in that it extracts
all available diamonds at its sites, even small stones with
industrial applications that fetch as little as $10 a carat,
Andreev said. “Why not to do it - it’s money,” he said.  Andreev, 47, has headed Alrosa since 2009 when he joined
the company from another state-run enterprise, Russian Railways.
A previous spell at Alrosa saw Andreev serve as a vice president
in 2002 to 2003.  Alrosa has been sharpening its focus on the precious gems,
disposing of assets not related to mining before the stock sale.
It agreed last month to sell natural gas assets to  OAO Rosneft (ROSN) 
for $1.38 billion, after divesting control of the Timir iron ore
project to  Evraz Plc (EVR)  in April.  With the world’s biggest reserves of about 970 million
carats, Russia will remain Alrosa’s center of production,
Andreev said. The company doesn’t see “big opportunities”
globally, with the possible exception of  Africa , according to
the CEO.  Political Risk  Even so, the company is moving “slowly” in Africa,
planning to spend about $5 million on geological studies next
year, Andreev said. In Russia, that figure is $180 million.  Growth within Alrosa’s operations in Russia is set to help
push revenue to $7 billion by 2021 from last year’s $4.8
billion, he said.  “We don’t have political risk,” Andreev said. “Russian
political risk is better than in Syria or Africa.”  Andreev said he doesn’t wear the stones himself. “Diamonds
are diamonds, for me -- it’s only business. It’s quite an
interesting market, quite successful.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Chilcote in London at 
 rchilcote@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  