-- Biggest Banks Face Higher Bar in Rewritten Living Wills
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-10-02T13:16:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/biggest-banks-face-higher-bar-in-rewritten-living-wills.html
Global banks that failed to convince
U.S. regulators last year they could go bust without destroying
the financial system got another chance this week to submit
plans for a safe demise.  Eleven of the largest lenders including  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Bank of America Corp.  were
scheduled to send revised living wills to regulators yesterday,
and public portions of those plans may be released as early as
today. If regulators aren’t satisfied, the government could
force the firms to restructure or sell off pieces.  The documents required by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act are meant
to describe hypothetical bankruptcies and bolster perceptions
that financial giants can be allowed to go under without causing
wider damage. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and  Federal
Reserve  will assess whether the plans are credible as they work
to end the notion that some lenders are too big to fail.  “Banks have been working closely with the regulators to
craft living wills that will pass muster,” said  Jaret Seiberg ,
an analyst at Guggenheim Partners LLC. “The problem is going to
be convincing many on  Capitol Hill  that these living wills are
worth the paper they’re printed on.”  Dodd-Frank called for limited portions of the living wills
to be released to the public. The FDIC and Fed are preparing to
release those sections on their websites. The rest of the
documents will remain private.  Falling Short  The first effort last year fell short of what the law
demands, according to Jim Wigand, the former FDIC official who
was responsible for planning for big-bank failures during the
2012 process. Wigand said earlier this year all the banks -- a
list that also includes  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  -- had more progress to make before their
plans would be credible.  The first round of plans was given a pass by regulators,
who said they wouldn’t formally find any of them flawed. This
year, lenders face a higher bar. They’ll need to fix the past
faults, and in April the regulators  outlined  demands for more
details on strategies for resolving international transactions,
dissolving trading connections and maintaining liquidity.  The banks also must submit plans that account for a
troubled marketplace where buyers for assets and operations may
not be readily available.  Seiberg said he doubts the federal agencies will use their
power to force asset sales and restructurings.  “If the regulators really wanted to break up the mega-banks, they would have done it already,” he said.  Last Resort  The FDIC was also granted power by Dodd-Frank to take a
firm over and wind it down if failure would still pose too great
a threat to be handled by bankruptcy. FDIC Chairman  Martin Gruenberg  described it to lawmakers as a last resort “if
resolution under the  bankruptcy code  would result in serious
adverse effects on financial stability in the United States.”  Senator Michael Crapo of Idaho, the senior Republican on
the Banking Committee, told Gruenberg in a July hearing that he
appreciated all the work on living wills, “but many, including
myself, believe that Dodd-Frank did not end too-big-to-fail.”  These 11 banks, those with more than $250 billion in U.S.
non-bank assets, are the largest tier of lenders required to
file the wills. The next group of smaller firms, including  Wells
Fargo & Co ., filed their first plans in July. Another cohort
with $50 billion to $100 billion in non-bank assets will file by
the end of the year.  Non-bank financial firms designated systemically risky by
the Dodd-Frank-created Financial Stability Oversight Council,
such as American International Group Inc. and Prudential
Financial Inc., will also have to file plans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 