-- BlackRock Buying Bonds Shows Draghi Directs Markets: Euro Credit
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-10-03T14:22:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/blackrock-buying-bonds-shows-draghi-directs-markets-euro-credit.html
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s 14-month-old promise to safeguard the euro-region’s
recovery is proving to be a more powerful signal for investors
than political turmoil in Rome and  Washington .  With a government shutdown in the U.S. threatening to
rattle markets, the extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year
Italian bonds rather than benchmark German bunds rose by only as
much as 26 basis points this week. Italian and Spanish bonds are
leading gains in developed markets over the past six months even
after  Italy ’s government flirted with collapse before Prime
Minister Enrico Letta won a Senate confidence vote yesterday.  “If this had happened a year, or one and a half years ago,
it would have had a much bigger impact on the market,” said
Elwin de Groot, senior market economist at Rabobank Nederland in
the Dutch city of Utrecht. “That’s already a demonstration of
the confidence the market has in the ECB’s resolve.”  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest money manager, said
last week it was buying Portuguese, Irish and Slovenian debt,
betting that the central bank support will lower yields. It
reiterated that view after the ECB’s meeting yesterday.
Neuberger Berman Group LLC, which manages $214 billion, said
this week that political turmoil may create an opportunity to
buy Italian bonds because the economy is improving.  Better Momentum  The economy in the 17-member euro region emerged from its
longest recession on record earlier this year, expanding 0.3
percent in the second quarter. After shrinking by 0.4 percent
this year, output will increase 1 percent next year and 1.4
percent in 2015, according to Bloomberg surveys of economists.  “The economic momentum is better at the moment,” said
Martti Forsberg, a portfolio manager at Nordea Investment
Management in Helsinki, who also has been buying Italian bonds.
“The market is clearly more liquid in countries such as  Spain 
so that market turbulence doesn’t spread so easily.”  Nordea Investment, part of the Nordic region’s largest
bank, had an underweight position on Italian bonds after
elections in February failed to produce a government until
April. That position is now neutral, said Forsberg, who runs
about 2.5 billion euros ($3.4 billion) of European debt.  Since taking over as head of the ECB in November 2011,
Draghi has acted to shield the euro area’s economy from the debt
crisis that started in  Greece  in late 2009, cutting the
refinancing rate to a record low 0.5 percent and flooding the
banking system with 1 trillion euros of three-year loans.  BlackRock Buys  Draghi, 66, also unveiled a bond-buying program called
Outright Monetary Transactions, or OMT, which so far has cost
the ECB nothing as borrowing costs in the region declined while
confidence among investors rose.  BlackRock, which oversees $1.2 trillion in fixed income
assets, is “overweight” Portuguese, Irish and Slovenian
 government bonds , meaning the New York-based firm has raised its
holdings to more than what’s represented by the benchmark used
to gauge performance. BlackRock is neutral on Spanish and
Italian debt.  “We are a huge fan of the peripheral bond markets,” Scott Thiel, BlackRock’s deputy chief investment officer for
fundamental fixed income, said at a media briefing in London on
Sept. 25. “The ECB will keep monetary policy loose.”  The ECB left its  main interest rate  at an all-time low
yesterday as predicted by all 52 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. After the decision, Draghi told reporters in Paris that
the ECB is ready to prevent “a liquidity accident standing
between now and a recovery.”  Political Rows  In  Portugal , where the nation’s leadership was forced to
deny a local newspaper report this past weekend that it was in
talks about a second bailout, yields fell to 6.51 percent the
day the U.S. government closed after Congress failed to agree on
a spending plan. That was the lowest since Aug. 28.  Yields in Portugal jumped above 8 percent on July 3 after a
cabinet disagreement over budget policy.  Italy was plunged into its political crisis as former
Premier  Silvio Berlusconi  pulled his People of Liberty ministers
in protest against plans to expel him from the Senate after he
was convicted of  tax fraud . He backtracked yesterday on his
pledge to bring down the government and supported Letta after
“internal strife” within his own party.  Italian bonds gained 4 percent in the six months through
yesterday, while their Spanish counterparts rose 5.6 percent,
Bloomberg bond indexes show.  Spanish Sale  Spain sold 10-year bonds today at average yield of 4.269
percent, the  lowest level  since September 2010 and down from a
rate of 4.503 percent on Sept. 5.  The spread for 10-year Italian debt relative to German
bunds of similar maturity dropped to 2.54 percent today from as
high as 2.9 percent on Sept. 30. The gap is more than a
percentage point lower than the 2013 high of 3.61 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Draghi has always given a clear signal that the ECB will
always provide the liquidity that’s needed and I believe him,”
said De Groot at Rabobank. “This is also more in the spirit of
the OMT. It’s verbal intervention.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  