-- BNP Paribas Well Positioned Ahead of Tarullo Rules, Fillion Says
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2013-10-02T18:57:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/bnp-paribas-well-positioned-ahead-of-tarullo-rules-fillion-says.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  is “well positioned”
to satisfy rules proposed by Federal Reserve board member Daniel K. Tarullo that would impose the same capital and liquidity
rules on units of foreign lenders as on domestic firms, an
executive of  France ’s largest bank said.  BNP Paribas’s U.S. consumer-banking division “provides
diversity and liquidity,” Jean-Yves Fillion, chief executive
officer of the Paris-based bank’s North American corporate and
investment banking, said on Bloomberg Television’s “Market
Makers” with  Stephanie Ruhle  and  Erik Schatzker  today. “That’s
why we are really well positioned to comply and to adjust to the
upcoming regulation.”  The Fed in December proposed subjecting two dozen foreign
banks to stricter U.S. capital rules and requiring them to house
their U.S. businesses, including securities trading, within
regulated holding companies, to lower risks to the financial
system. The Fed also proposed that most of the banks be forced
to comply with stricter liquidity rules.  The Tarullo proposals are going to be “a game changer”
for U.S. units of foreign banks, Fillion said. While the
upcoming Fed rules are a “challenge for foreign bank
organizations,” BNP Paribas has “very diversified” U.S.
operations, including investment banking, asset management and
retail banking, he said, without providing more details of BNP’s
plans to comply with the Fed’s rules.  BNP Paribas, active in the country since 1919, has more
than 14,000 employees in the U.S., including more than 3,000
professionals in corporate and  investment banking , according to
its website. BNP Paribas also owns BancWest, which operates more
than 700 consumer-banking branches in about 20 Western and
Midwestern states.  BancWest had $58.2 billion in deposits at the end of June,
up 4.4 percent from a year earlier, while the U.S. retail-banking unit’s loans rose 3.5 percent to $54.6 billion over the
period, the bank said July 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  