-- BOE’s Fisher Says No Evidence of U.K. Housing Market Bubble
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-10-02T13:50:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/boe-s-fisher-says-he-doesn-t-see-a-u-k-housing-market-bubble.html
Bank of England Markets Director  Paul Fisher  said he doesn’t see a bubble in the U.K. housing market
and officials will monitor risks from a property revival.  “The housing market is clearly gathering momentum,” he
said in a speech in London today. “I don’t see any evidence of
bubble behavior as yet, with mortgage lending still subdued
relative to what is likely to be normal levels of activity.”  With house prices rising, Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
decision to extend his Help to Buy housing program three months
earlier than planned has sparked criticism he’s stoking a
bubble. The government said last week the BOE will perform
checks on the program every September starting next year.  “The bank will not be complacent about allowing financial
stability risks to build through an over-expansion of the
housing market,” Fisher said. “Both borrowers and lenders need
to be careful not to over-stretch themselves. We will be keeping
a very close eye on developments.”  The price adjustment “is not surprising” in the context
of a recovering market, while London “has special demand
pressures which are not present elsewhere in the U.K.,” Fisher
said. Britain “may well see a response in new housing supply in
due course, limiting the effects of demand on  house prices .”  Cameron, who faces re-election in less than two years, said
Sept. 29 that mortgage guarantees designed to let people buy a
home costing as much as 600,000 pounds ($973,000) with a 5
percent deposit will begin this month instead of January.
Interest-free loans for buyers of newly built properties are
already available.  Guidance ‘Working’  Fisher said the bank’s forward guidance “is working” in
supporting the real economy, and market expectations that the
BOE will increase  interest rates  sooner than projected doesn’t
suggest the program has failed.  The bank has pledged to keep the benchmark interest rate at
a record low of 0.5 percent and not reduce its  quantitative-easing program  at least until the  unemployment rate , now at 7.7
percent, drops to 7 percent. Policy makers don’t see that
happening until the end of 2016. Investors are betting on an
increase before then.  Investors may be reacting to “the positive flow of
economic data since the start of August” that’s been
“consistently stronger than market expectations,” Fisher said.
A link between U.S. and U.K. short rates may be “overdone” and
is “unhelpful given the relatively subdued recovery in the
U.K.,” he said. “It may well be the case that these rates
decouple in future as liquidity improves and the outlook for
each economy develops further.”  No ‘Dysfunction’  The market reaction to the U.S. Federal Reserve’s
announcement last month that it wouldn’t start curtailing bond
purchases hasn’t produced “any long-lived market dysfunction,”
he said. “Although it is clear that a number of firms must have
made substantial losses on the positions they had, there have
not been many visible signs of severe financial distress.
Overall the system seems to have survived in reasonable shape.”  Forward guidance shows that officials “remain committed to
returning consumer-price inflation to its 2 percent target,”
although in doing so the Monetary Policy Committee “will not
act in a way which would risk choking off the recovery
prematurely, given the potential for a substantial amount of
spare capacity in the economy,” he said.  ‘Stands Ready’  As part of this, the MPC “stands ready to undertake
further asset purchases while the  unemployment  rate remains
above 7 percent if it judges that additional monetary stimulus
is warranted,” he said. Officials “will otherwise maintain the
stock of asset purchases and will reinvest the cash flows
associated with all maturing gilts held in the asset purchase
facility.”  Fisher said that forward-looking indicators signal the
economy’s  0.7 percent  expansion between April and June will at
least “be maintained for the next two quarters.”  “We have had quite a significant shift from flatlining,
where we were through 2012, to an economy growing at least
around trend over several quarters,” he said. “You wouldn’t
necessarily want to do something like QE coming on the back of
that shift and adding fuel to what’s already a growing
economy.”  He said it was better for policy makers to keep further
 stimulus  in reserve to spur the recovery should it start to
falter.  Spare Capacity  Guidance, introduced by Governor  Mark Carney  in August,
“can enhance the effectiveness of monetary stimulus” by
providing clarity on the tradeoff between returning inflation to
target and supporting the recovery and reducing uncertainty on
the future path of policy, he said.  The framework helps policy makers explore the degree of
spare capacity in the economy at a time when productivity is
about 15 percent below the trend set before the recession, he
said.  “We don’t know how much of this productivity gap can be
reclaimed,” he said. “But if even only a small part could be
recovered then output should be able to grow strongly for some
years without generating much inflationary pressure. Firms
should collectively be carrying enough spare labor to expand
output without putting pressure on the labor market.”  The Funding for Lending program has been “remarkably
successful” in cutting loan costs for banks and it’s now “safe
to say that bank funding is no longer a constraint on lending
for most U.K. banks,” he said. “Going forward, the FLS should
help to keep funding costs down by serving as a backstop
marginal funding source if market funding costs were to rise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  