-- BofA Says Bonds to Beat Stocks in Debt Gridlock
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-10-02T15:19:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/bofa-says-bonds-to-beat-stocks-in-debt-gridlock.html
Strategists from  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  to  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  predict dollar-denominated corporate
bonds will outperform stocks this month if political gridlock
persists with the government partially shut down this week.  Company debt in the U.S. has gained 1 percent since Sept.
17, the day before the  Federal Reserve  surprised investors with
its decision to maintain unprecedented economic stimulus,
compared with a 0.5 percent decline on the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index. In August 2011, the last time legislators approached a
deadline to raise the debt limit, investment grade bonds
returned 0.13 percent while U.S. stocks declined 5.4 percent.  “Investment-grade credit can produce attractive risk-adjusted returns relative to equities or other risk assets,”
Edward Marrinan, a credit strategist at  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc (RBS) ’s securities unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a
telephone interview. “If there’s an asset class that’s more
vulnerable amid a protracted government shutdown and a
contentious debt-ceiling debate, it’s equities.”  Even with corporate bonds trading at yields within a
percentage point of all-time lows, they’re set to perform better
than stocks this month, according to Bank of America’s Michael Contopoulos, as any weakening of the economy resulting from the
shutdown will likely prolong the Fed’s $85 billion of monthly
purchases of mortgage bonds and Treasuries.  ‘Serious Consequences’  “If negotiations in  Washington  continue to be unfruitful,
stocks will be more vulnerable than credit,” Contopoulos, a
high-yield credit strategist in  New York , wrote in a Sept. 26
report. “The focus away from increasing rates to the rising
probability of a government shutdown implies that equities are
likely to underperform credit over the next month.”  Congress’s failure to pass a budget by Sept. 30 partially
closed the government yesterday for the first time in 17 years,
costing the U.S. at least $300 million a day and setting the
stage for a debate on raising the U.S. debt ceiling.  The shutdown temporarily put as many as 800,000 federal
employees out of work, halting some government services.
Gridlock over the budget or a failure to raise the debt limit
“could have very serious consequences” for the economy and
policy makers will have to take that into account, Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said Sept. 18 at a news conference in Washington
after the central bank’s decision was released.  Volatility Rise  Investors funneled $2.9 billion into U.S. high-yield bond
funds last week, the second-highest inflow this year, and $1.7
billion into investment-grade funds, the most in 17 weeks, Bank
of America data show. Yields on dollar-denominated corporate
bonds have narrowed 9 basis points since the end of August, to
4.12 percent from this year’s high of 4.37 percent on Sept. 5,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  The bond gains follow a 2.3 percent loss in the first six
months of the year on the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S
Corporate & High Yield  Index (SPX) , when investors demonstrated
mounting concern that the  U.S. economy  had improved enough for
the Fed to start reducing its bond purchases. The  S&P 500  posted
a total return of 13.8 percent in the period, its biggest gain
since 1998.  “We’re going to see an increase in volatility surrounding
this debt ceiling debate” in the equity markets, said Scott Wren, a senior equity strategist at Wells Fargo Advisors LLC,
the subsidiary of Wells Fargo that oversees about $1.3 trillion
of assets. If stocks sell off, he said, “you’d see bonds rally
from here.”  Default Swaps  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. increased, with the
Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, climbing 1 basis point to a mid-price of 80.4
basis points as of 11:08 a.m. in New York, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  The measure typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, rose 0.06 basis point to 13.5 basis points
as of 11:06 a.m. in New York. The gauge widens when investors
seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and narrows
when they favor assets such as company debentures.  Verizon Bonds  Bonds of  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  are the most actively
traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
accounting for 7.4 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1
million or more as of 11:06 a.m. in New York, Trace data show.
The New York-based telephone carrier raised $49 billion on Sept.
11 in the largest corporate  bond issue  ever.  Dollar-denominated investment-grade and high-yield bonds
returned 1.18 percent in the three months ended Sept. 30, the
biggest quarterly gain this year, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data.  The notes gained 0.9 percent last month as Bernanke said
policy makers are “somewhat concerned” by tightening financial
conditions and decided to keep their current level of asset
purchases as a “precautionary step.”  On the day the Fed said it would keep buying $45 billion of
Treasuries and $40 billion of mortgage bonds until at least its
next meeting this month, yields on 10-year Treasuries plunged
the most since November 2012 from 2.99 percent on Sept. 5, the
highest since July 2011.  Honeywell, JetBlue  “We believe the 10-year Treasury yield will be
meaningfully lower than where it is today,” RBS’s Marrinan
said. “Treasuries and investment grade will be the primary
beneficiaries if the government shutdown is so protracted that
it runs into the debt-ceiling debate later this month.”  Chief executive officers at companies ranging from
Honeywell International Inc. to JetBlue Airways Corp. said that
a prolonged shutdown of the U.S. government has the potential to
jeopardize the economic rebound.  The first partial shutdown in 17 years may subtract as much
as 1.4 percentage points from economic growth, depending on its
length, according to Guy LeBas, chief fixed income strategist at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. A lengthy budget
fight risks damping consumer sentiment, cooling the auto market,
restraining sales of  luxury goods  and hurting travel.  “Until there is a meaningful pick up in the data and a
corresponding rapid rise in rates fueling outflow concerns once
again, there seems to be limited impetus for credit to widen
meaningfully,” the Bank of America credit strategists wrote.
“Yet another long drawn debate around raising the debt ceiling
can only be a negative for risk assets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  