-- BP Wins Review of Challenged Payouts to Oil-Spill Victims
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-10-03T21:47:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/bp-wins-reconsideration-of-payouts-to-oil-spill-victims.html
BP Plc (BP/)  persuaded an appeals court to
order a re-examination of key terms of the 2010  Gulf of Mexico 
 oil-spill  settlement that the company said could have cost it
billions of dollars in improper payouts.  BP said the program’s administrator,  Patrick Juneau , was
approving millions of dollars in “fictitious” payments to
businesses for economic losses based on what BP called a flawed
interpretation of the agreement reached with spill victims’
lawyers in 2012.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New Orleans yesterday sent the
dispute back to the trial judge for further consideration. The
appellate panel also ordered U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  to
review his interpretation of some of the accord’s terms. The
appellate panel ordered Barbier to stop some payments under the
settlement until he can sort out who has legitimate claims.  “This decision throws a huge monkey wrench into the
settlement and it could well save BP hundreds of millions in
settlement payments,”  Carl Tobias , a law professor at the
 University of Richmond  who studies and teaches about the federal
judiciary, said in a phone interview. “It’s going to create a
real mess.”  BP rose as much as 2 percent in  London  trading, the biggest
 intraday gain  in almost three months, and closed up 1.1 percent
at 437.15 pence.  Lawsuit Dismissed  “This is the best news BP has had out of the U.S. legal
system in a while,” said  Jason Gammel , an analyst at Macquarie
Capital Europe Ltd. in London. “If payments can be stopped to
those who didn’t suffer direct losses from the spill, it has to
be seen as a positive for the company.”  Barbier ruled in March that Juneau was interpreting the
contract properly. In April, he dismissed BP’s lawsuit against
the administrator and rejected a request to bar certain payments
while the company appealed his ruling. The appeals court
yesterday upheld Barbier’s dismissal of BP’s suit against
Juneau, while sending back his other rulings.  “Today’s ruling affirms what BP has been saying since the
beginning: claimants should not be paid for fictitious or wholly
non-existent losses,”  Geoff Morrell , a company spokesman, said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  The divided U.S. Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals panel
ordered Barbier to reevaluate complex accounting issues
underlying some settlement claims and to halt some payments
until that review is complete, according to the 67-page ruling.  Judges  Edith Clement  and  Leslie Southwick  concluded the
settlement should be sent back to Barbier for further review.
Judge  James Dennis  dissented, saying the trial judge’s
interpretation of the disputed terms should be upheld.  ‘Completely Disconnected’  Settlement administrator Juneau’s interpretation of the
accounting terms targeted by BP were “completely disconnected
from any reasonable understanding of calculation of damages,”
Clement and Southwick said in the majority decision.  “The Fifth Circuit just gave BP a get-out-of-jail-free
card, and a ruling that says you don’t have to live by the
settlement you negotiated,” said David Berg, a lawyer in
Houston who has litigated environmental claims. He isn’t
representing clients in the BP settlement.  Today, Barbier ordered Juneau to temporarily suspend
payments on the disputed categories of business-economic loss
claims until he and lawyers for both sides craft the
“appropriate narrowly tailored preliminary injunction”
required by the appeals court ruling. He asked lawyers to meet
with him behind closed doors on Oct. 11 to discuss the case,
according to court records.  BP initially valued its economic-loss settlement at $7.8
billion. The company increased its estimate to $9.6 billion in
regulatory filings, citing the interpretation by the claims
administrator.  Claims Processing  “We’re pleased the vast majority of class members will
continue to be paid in a timely and expeditious manner,”  Steve Herman  and  Jim Roy , the lead lawyers for the plaintiffs’
steering committee, said in an e-mailed statement. “We look
forward to working with the claims administrator and the court
to determine the best way to get the affected claims processed
and paid as soon as possible.”  Juneau said yesterday he’ll await the outcome of Barbier’s
re-evaluation of the settlement terms before pushing ahead with
payments.  “As the court-appointed claims administrator, it’s my job
to implement this settlement agreement as directed by the
court,” the Lafayette, Louisiana-based lawyer said in an e-mailed statement. “This is what we will do.”  The appeals court sent the case back to Barbier for “a
more thorough factual record,” Joe Rice, a South Carolina-based
plaintiffs’ attorney who helped negotiate the BP settlement,
said in a phone interview. “We’ll have to see how Judge Barbier
responds.”  2012 Settlement  The blowout of BP’s deep-water Macondo well off the coast
of  Louisiana  in April 2010 killed 11 people and sent more than 4
million barrels of oil spewing into the Gulf of Mexico. The
accident sparked hundreds of lawsuits against BP, as well as
 Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , owner of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig
that burned and sank, and  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provided cement
services for the well.  BP reached a settlement with most private plaintiffs in
March 2012, just before a trial on liability for the incident
was to begin.  Excluded Claims  The accord resolved economic-loss claims for multiple
classes of businesses and property owners in Louisiana,  Alabama 
and  Mississippi  and in parts of  Texas  and  Florida . It excluded
claims of financial institutions, casinos, private plaintiffs in
parts of Florida and Texas, and residents and businesses
claiming harm from the Obama administration’s moratorium on
deep-water drilling prompted by the spill. Barbier gave final
approval to the settlement in December.  Barbier conducted a two-month nonjury trial this year
beginning in February on fault and whether BP or its
 subcontractors  acted with gross negligence. A second trial phase
began this week to determine the size of the spill and evaluate
efforts to contain it.  BP contended in court papers that Juneau’s interpretation
of the settlement resulted in the company paying “baseless
awards” that weren’t contemplated in the agreement, according
to a May 3 appellate filing.  Unrelated Awards  BP protested Barbier’s decision to allow businesses to seek
to recoup losses based on their own accounting, without
requiring matching of revenue with expenses. That led to awards
unrelated to injuries, such as a $21 million payout to a rice
mill 40 miles from the coast, BP’s lawyers argued. They noted
the mill’s revenue rose the year of the spill.  Under the accord, claims payments are based on a numerical
formula, primarily depending on distance from the spill, using
sample periods before and after the event. Businesses haven’t
had to prove direct impact or a link to it.  They have been assumed to have suffered because of the
spill’s regional economic effects, according to court filings.  “Stop the hemorrhaging of cash,”  Theodore Olson , a BP
lawyer, asked the appeals court at a July 8 hearing.
“Irreparable injuries are taking place, and monies are being
dispensed to parties from whom it will unlikely be
recoverable.”  Clement said in the decision that she believed Barbier had
“no authority to approve the settlement of a class that
included members that had not sustained losses at all, or had
sustained losses unrelated to the oil spill, as BP alleges.”
The judge didn’t persuade her colleagues to join that part of
the decision.  The panel’s majority concluded that Barbier must fashion a
“tailored stay,” or payment halt, to avoid paying improper
claims while he reviewed the disputed accounting terms.  Save Millions  “The interests of individuals who may be reaping windfall
recoveries because of an inappropriate interpretation of the
settlement agreement and those who could never have recovered in
individual suits for failure to show causation are not
outweighed by the potential loss to a company and its public
shareholders,” the majority said.  Berg said the majority ruling may prompt Barbier to take a
more restrictive view of the settlement’s terms and that could
save BP millions.  The judge “will have to find a way to make it more
equitable to BP and put a limit on what BP has to pay,” the
lawyer said. “Victims who can prove their losses were actually
related to the spill will still be compensated. But it will be
harder.”  The appeal is BP Exploration & Production Inc. v. Deepwater
Horizon Court-Supervised Settlement Program and Patrick Juneau
in his official capacity, 13-30315, U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Fifth Circuit ( New Orleans ). The lower court case is In re
Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico
on April 20, 2010, 10-md-02179, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  