-- Brazil’s Industrial Production Unexpectedly Stalls in August
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-10-02T13:48:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/brazil-s-industrial-production-unexpectedly-stalls-in-august.html
Brazil ’s industrial production
unexpectedly stalled in August, as factories reduced output of
 consumer goods .  Industrial production was unchanged in August after
tumbling a revised 2.4 percent in July, the national statistics
agency said today in  Rio de Janeiro . That compares with the
median 0.2 percent rise  estimate  from 34 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Production fell 1.2 percent from a  year  earlier, a
greater drop than the 0.6 percent contraction predicted by
economists, and down from a revised 1.7 percent jump in July.  President  Dilma Rousseff  has sought to reactivate the
nation’s manufacturing sector with tax breaks for producers and
consumers. Amid flagging government revenue and improved
economic growth data, Rousseff has begun rolling back some
incentives. Investments in production will face borrowing costs
that policy makers boosted this year by more than any major
economy to tame inflation. Today’s figures confirm the economy
will contract in the third quarter, Carlos Kawall, chief
economist at Banco J. Safra SA.  “The number is worse than expected,” Kawall said by
phone. “Stability from July is not good news because we had a
substantial decline in July. It doesn’t change our view in terms
of third quarter growth, which we continue to see as negative.”  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2015 fell
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 10.28 percent
at 10:31 a.m. local time. The real strengthened 0.1 percent to
2.2144 per  U.S. dollar .  Inflation Forecast  Brazil’s economy grew 1.5 percent in the second quarter,
 surprising  all analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, according to data
released at end-August. Still, the central bank on Monday
reduced its 2013 growth outlook to 2.5 percent from 2.7 percent
previously and today’s data partly justify the revision,
according to  Jankiel Santos , chief economist at  Banco Espirito
Santo de Investimento SA .  “The contribution from the industrial sector in the third
quarter will tend to be very bad,” Santos said by phone.  Economists in the central bank’s most recent weekly survey
raised their 2013 inflation forecast to 5.82 percent and held
their growth forecast at 2.4 percent. The analysts foresee the
 exchange rate  at 2.3 reais per dollar at year-end.  Benchmark Rate  The central bank has raised its benchmark  Selic (BZSTSETA)  rate in
four straight meetings, to 9 percent, up from a record-low 7.25
percent in April. Inflation  decelerated  to 5.93 percent in the
year through mid-September. While that’s the first time all year
it has fallen below 6 percent, it remains closer to the ceiling
than the center of the bank’s target range. Policy makers target
4.5 percent plus or minus two percentage points.  Consumer goods output fell 0.6 percent due to a decline in
semi-durable and non-durable goods. That could be due in part to
companies reducing their stocks, according to Thais Zara, an
economist at Rosenberg & Associates Inc. in  Sao Paulo .  The positive highlight of today’s data was a 2.6 percent
increase in capital goods production, a barometer for
investment, which fell in July, according to Banco Safra’s
Kawall. That indicates capital goods output may remain stable in
the third quarter, he said.  “We moved up in the second quarter and perhaps we stay
where we were, which is better than feared when the quarter
began,” he said.  Food, Cars  Industrial production rose in 15 of the 27 sectors
monitored in August, with the largest increases recorded in
foods and automobiles.  Mercedes-Benz, the world’s third largest luxury carmaker,
announced yesterday it will spend 170 million euros ($230
million) on a new factory in Brazil. The news followed an
announcement by competitor  Audi AG (NSU)  last month it will invest 500
million reais in Brazil through 2016. Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG also plans to invest 200 million euros in a new plant.  Brazil’s use of manufacturing  capacity  in July fell to 82.2
percent, its lowest level since September 2012, according to the
National Industry Confederation. Industrial confidence in August
and September  rebounded  from a four-year low in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  