-- Brazil Real Rises to Two-Week High on Outlook for U.S. Stimulus
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-10-02T21:22:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/brazil-real-trades-at-week-high-as-u-s-shutdown-spurs-fed-bets.html
Brazil ’s real rose to a two-week high
as the U.S. government shutdown encouraged speculation that the
 Federal Reserve  will sustain a stimulus program that has
supported emerging-market assets.  The currency appreciated 1.1 percent to 2.1917 per  U.S.
dollar , the strongest closing level since Sept. 18. Swap rates
on the contract due in January 2017 dropped 11 basis points, or
0.11 percentage point, to 11.37 percent. Central bank President
Alexandre Tombini said he seeks to bring inflation as close as
possible to the government’s target of 4.5 percent in 2014.  The real has rallied 11 percent since Aug. 22, when
Brazil’s central bank announced a $60 billion intervention
program to support the currency and curb inflation. The gain is
the biggest among all of the world’s dollar counterparts tracked
by Bloomberg.  “The market believes that the greater the economic cost of
the shutdown, the less likely the Fed is to taper stimulus,”
 Vladimir Caramaschi , the chief strategist at Credit Agricole
Brasil SA in Sao Paulo, said in a phone interview. The
intervention “is also favoring appreciation.”  The central bank sold all 10,000 of foreign currency swap
contracts offered today worth $498 million.  Tombini said in an interview in  London  that he intends to
“complete one more year with inflation in line with our regime,
as slow as possible, as close to the target as possible, and the
economy on a sustainable trajectory.”  Brazil’s industrial production was unchanged in August
after tumbling a revised 2.4 percent in July, the national
statistics agency said today in  Rio de Janeiro . That compares
with the median estimate for a 0.2 percent rise from 34
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Production fell 1.2 percent
from a year earlier, a bigger drop than the 0.6 percent
contraction predicted by economists, and down from a revised 1.7
percent jump in July.  The central bank has raised borrowing costs by 175 basis
points since April to 9 percent for the biggest increase in the
world.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  