-- California Curbs School Bonds With ‘Abusive’ Debt Costs
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-10-02T18:27:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/california-curbs-school-bonds-with-abusive-debt-costs.html
California capped the total interest
costs on capital-appreciation bonds issued by school districts
at four times the amount borrowed to rein in the financing
method that Treasurer Bill Lockyer called “abusive.”  A bill signed into law today by Governor  Jerry Brown 
restricts industry practices that saddled taxpayers with debt
that cost as much as 10 times the amount borrowed by putting off
repayment for as long as 40 years.  “School districts no longer can heap outrageous debt
burden on the backs of future generations,” Lockyer, a 72-year-old Democrat, said in a statement.  Elected school and community-college boards, pressured to
avoid raising taxes, have used the bonds to defer interest
payments on $6.94 billion of debt since 2007, according to data
through November from Lockyer’s office. The treasurer called for
legislation after learning that $105 million borrowed by the
Poway Unified School District in San Diego County would cost the
issuer $1.1 billion when it matures in 22 to 40 years.  The new law limits capital-appreciation bond maturities to
25 years or less, with an option of early repayment on
securities due in more than 10 years. The measure passed the
state Assembly and Senate unanimously.  “The reforms are reasonable and balanced, and they give
districts the flexibility they need,” Lockyer said.  Capital-appreciation bonds, similar to zero-coupon
securities, don’t pay interest until maturity. Investors get
higher yields than from conventional debt to compensate for the
long holding period.  Schools turned to the financing method to build or
modernize classrooms after the recession sapped property-tax
revenue, according to a nonpartisan legislative  analysis . In
2009, state lawmakers also ended a 10 percent annual cap on
school district debt growth, according to the analysis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  