-- Carbon Advances as Policy Makers Consider Supply Flexibility
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-10-02T17:17:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/carbon-advances-as-policy-makers-consider-supply-flexibility.html
European Union carbon permits
advanced to close at their highest this week as policy makers
held talks on ways to adjust sales of allowances to address a
surplus that depressed prices.  Finance, industry and market representatives met in
Brussels today to discuss “technical aspects” of a possible
reserve mechanism to make the amount of permits EU countries
sell at auction more flexible, the  European Commission  said
Sept. 24. Isaac Valero-Ladron, a spokesman for the commission,
declined to comment immediately on the talks when reached by
phone today.  Allowances for December rose 2.5 percent to close at 5.28
euros ($7.17) a metric ton on ICE Futures  Europe  in London. The
contracts have fallen 36 percent in the past year and slumped to
an all-time low of 2.46 euros on April 17.  The EU is seeking to tighten the supply of permits in its
emissions trading system, the world’s largest, to help deal with
a glut that’s swelled to about 2 billion tons of carbon dioxide,
according to commission estimates. That’s equivalent to about a
year’s supply of allowances.  Under the bloc’s cap-and-trade program, emission permits
are allocated for free or auctioned to power plants and
factories, which must surrender them to cover discharges. The
commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, has separately proposed to
temporarily reduce supply sold at auction by 900 million tons
through 2015.  Permit Shortage  The Alliance of Energy Intensive Industries is resisting
moves to tighten supply. Some industries face a permit shortage
of more than 30 percent in the eight years through 2020 after
the bloc scaled back free allowances by an average 12 percent
for the period, the trade group said yesterday.  Even the region’s most energy-efficient factories will need
to buy allowances, placing them at a disadvantage compared with
competitors outside the EU, Alain Mathuren, an Alliance
spokesman in Brussels, said in an interview yesterday.  Oil refiners probably will need to buy 37 percent of the
permits they need in the period, fertilizer makers 40 percent
and chemical makers 31 percent, he said.  Industries may move outside the EU where there are no
emission limits, a process known as carbon leakage, Mathuren
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  