-- Carlyle Among Firms Finding Taiwan Banks No Path to China
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2013-10-03T08:32:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/carlyle-among-firms-finding-taiwan-banks-no-path-to-china.html
Taiwanese banks, once seen as a
gateway into  China , look more like a trap for private-equity
firms including  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  as the mainland market proves
elusive and competition at home curbs profits for small lenders.   Cosmos Bank Taiwan (2837) , controlled by a buyout firm owned by
 Steven A. Cohen ’s SAC Capital Advisors LLC, has lost 68 percent
from the end of 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Taipei-based  Ta Chong Bank Ltd. (2847) , backed by Carlyle, declined 11
percent, while EnTie Commercial Bank, whose owners include
Longreach Group Ltd., fell 18 percent in that period.  Investments made more than five years ago in  Taiwan ’s
fragmented banking sector -- whose assets are less than a 10th
of China’s -- are underwater with stocks trading below the cost
of purchase. Anemic  loan growth  and margins among the narrowest
in  Asia , coupled with faster expansion on the mainland and
 Southeast Asia , may deter foreign and local acquirers.  “It’ll be pretty challenging for the private-equity firms
to sell their stakes in Taiwanese banks in the next two years,”
 Eric Chang , a Taipei-based analyst at Jih Sun Securities Co.,
said by telephone. “There are no buyers.”  Cosmos and EnTie are two of the three worst performers this
year on the TWSE Financial & Insurance Industry Index, which
tracks 36 banks, insurers and financial-holding companies. The
benchmark gauge has climbed 18 percent, while Cosmos has slumped
19 percent and EnTie by 3.4 percent.  A spokeswoman for Carlyle and a spokesman for SAC Capital
declined to comment, while Longreach didn’t return two e-mails.  Unhealthy Banks  Taiwanese lenders, about half of which were unprofitable
seven years ago, began attracting attention from private-equity
firms in 2006 and 2007 as the government encouraged banks and
financial companies to merge.  Optimism that relations with China would improve --
fostered in part by comments by the main opposition party’s
leaders that they would seek closer ties if the group was
elected -- also led to speculation that local banks would gain
access to the mainland’s bigger, more profitable and faster-growing market.  Overseas lenders took note: Standard Chartered Plc,
Citigroup Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc and ABN Amro Holding NV were
among those to take over and merge local banking assets with
their own operations on the island, while  Japan ’s Shinsei Bank
Ltd. bought a stake in a financial-holding company.  The flurry of deals also saw Carlyle, the world’s second-largest manager of alternative assets such as private equity and
real estate, vying with  South Korea ’s MBK Partners Ltd. and
Japan’s Orix Corp. for the unprofitable Ta Chong in 2007.  China Gateway  “Taiwanese banks were attractive to the PE firms because
they were seen as having a better chance of expanding into the
mainland than international rivals,” Chuang Piyen, a Taipei-based banking analyst at Mega Securities Co., said by telephone
on Sept. 30. “Unhealthy banks were targeted because they could
be turned around and sold at a good price.”  Carlyle and a partner bought a stake in the Taiwanese
lender, which had posted a NT$5 billion  loss  for 2006 on bad-loan provisions, for $650 million at the end of the next year.
The buyout firm holds about 24 percent of Ta Chong, according to
the Taipei-based lender’s 2012 annual report.  Since then, Ta Chong has slipped to No. 23 among 39
domestic banks ranked by assets, from No. 21 in 2007.  “We believe the likely M&A within domestic Taiwan in the
near future will be at small banks owned by private equity,
which are seeking exit strategies,” Jemmy S. Huang, an analyst
for JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Taipei, wrote in a note to clients
in May. “Pricing will be key.”  Below Cost  The holding cost Carlyle about NT$17.50 per share,
including the purchase of preferred shares and common stock,
according to estimates from Huang, who declined through a
JPMorgan spokesman to comment for this story. Ta Chong gained
1.4 percent to NT$10.10 today, 42 percent below that price.  The lender failed to meet its former President Edmund Koh’s
February 2010 target of boosting profit fivefold by 2012, from
about NT$1 billion in 2009: it posted net income of NT$1.73
billion for last year. The bank’s return on equity, at 6.5
percent for 2012, also missed Koh’s goal of 15 percent.  Carlyle hired JPMorgan to help sell its stake, Reuters
reported in April 2012, citing people it didn’t identify. Within
a month, Ta Chong said it was told by Yuanta Financial Holding
Co. and Fubon Financial Holding Co. that they had stopped
procedures relating to a merger with the lender.  The buyout firm will probably sell out at the “proper
price” and time, a Ta Chong spokeswoman said in an e-mailed
response to questions. An agreement to sell the holding isn’t in
the works, she said.  ‘Opportunities Diminishing’  Tammy Li, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for Carlyle,
declined to comment on whether the Washington, D.C.-based
company is seeking to sell the stake and whether a transaction
is possible in the next two years. Marie Cheung, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for JPMorgan, declined to comment on whether
the bank is trying to sell the assets for Carlyle.  “We see good exit opportunities diminishing” for private
equity firms,  Jerry Yang , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Daiwa
Capital Markets Hong Kong Ltd., said by telephone. Local targets
have become unattractive because “Taiwan financial companies
are shifting their focus to overseas expansion rather than
domestic consolidation.”  Of the 39 local banks that operate on the island -- down
from 42 in 2006 -- only one has more than 10 percent of the
market share for loans, according to data from Taiwan’s
 Financial Supervisory Commission . The island, which has been
governed separately from China since 1949, also has three
Chinese lenders and 28 foreign banks.  Slower Growth  The size and growth in Taiwan’s financial sector is also
dwarfed by neighboring China. Total banking assets on the island
grew 6.7 percent from a year earlier to $1.3 trillion as of
June, data from the local regulator show. Mainland banks’ assets
expanded 12 percent to $16 trillion during the period, according
to China’s banking regulator.  “Why would Taiwanese banks want to buy their local
peers?” Chang at Jih Sun said. “With the mainland opening up
its market to Taiwan, local banks will eye the market there.”  Competition has also driven down the profitability of
lending operations for the banks to the second lowest in Asia,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average net
interest margin in Taiwan for lenders with assets of $5 billion
or more is 1.38 percent, only surpassing Japan’s 1.32 percent,
the data show.  Slim Margins  That makes Taiwanese banks less attractive to investors,
especially given the growth opportunities in  emerging markets  in
Southeast Asia or in China. Average net interest margin of
Indonesian banks is 6.5 percent, while the gauge is 3.23 percent
in China and 3.67 percent in the  Philippines , data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  U.S. and European lenders are also unlikely to consider
Taiwan, Derek Ovington, regional head of banking research at
CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, said in an interview on Sept. 24.  “It’s not a growing market,” Hong Kong-based Ovington
said. “So it’s much more likely that foreign banks will
prioritize China first.”  That may be bad news for firms including the Asia-focused
Longreach, which holds about 50 percent of EnTie, according to
the Taiwanese lender’s 2012 annual report.  Mark Chiba, a former UBS AG banker who founded the Asian
buyout firm, said in June 2007 that he expected to turn around
the unprofitable bank’s operations in two to three years.  Bank’s Turnaround  EnTie, ranked No. 24 among domestic banks by assets, has
posted annual profits since 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The firm’s return on equity was almost 19 percent, making
it the second-best performer among the 20 Taiwanese financial
companies tracked by Bloomberg.  That hasn’t helped bolster the stock, which trades 34
percent below the NT$23.40 a share that Longreach paid for
stakes acquired since June 2007, based on estimates from
JPMorgan’s Huang. EnTie rose 1 percent to NT$15.55 today, having
fallen 3.4 percent this year.  “The private-equity-owned banks are unlikely to meet all
the mainland entry requirements over the next few years,” said
Chuang of Mega Securities. “The current prices just reflect
that they are unlikely to tap into China anytime soon.”   Longreach , which invests mainly in Japan and the Greater
China region, hired Morgan Stanley to sell its entire holding in
EnTie, Reuters reported in April 2012, citing a person familiar
with the matter. Longreach was seeking at least NT$30 a share,
Reuters said the following month.  Less Banks  The buyout firm is working with Morgan Stanley to explore
options, a person with knowledge of the matter said last week,
asking not to identified because the talks are private.  Harriet Ngan, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman at Morgan
Stanley, declined to comment. Longreach, which has offices in
Hong Kong and  Tokyo , didn’t reply to two e-mails.  “We are very likely to have four banks less if the
financial sponsors sell the stakes to domestic financial-holding
companies or banks,” EnTie’s Chief Financial Officer Andrew Lee
said last month. He declined to comment on whether Longreach was
seeking to sell its stake.  Shinsei Bank, a Japanese regional lender backed by J.
 Christopher Flowers , held about 35 percent of  Jih Sun Financial
Holdings Co. (5820) , according to the Taiwanese company’s annual
report. Shares of Jih Sun Financial, ranked No. 16 among
Taiwan’s 17 financial holding companies, added 1.3 percent to
NT$8.49 today, 37 percent below the NT$13.40 a share that the
stake cost Shinsei Bank.  Shinsei’s Investment  The Tokyo-based lender views its holding in Jih Sun
Financial, which it has accumulated since May 2006, as a
“strategic investment,” Eiji Ootaka, a Tokyo-based spokesman
for Shinsei Bank, said last month. Shinsei also has a business
alliance with the Taiwanese company, Ootaka said.  “Our purchase of the stake in Jih Sun wasn’t aimed for an
exit after a short period of time, which private equity firms
would usually do,” said Ootaka. He declined to comment on
whether the bank would consider selling its stake in the next
couple of years.  Not all private-equity investments in Taiwanese banks have
performed badly.  Shares of Cosmos, ranked No. 34 by assets among domestic
banks, are trading at more than twice the NT$7.30 that the
holding cost SAC Capital since the end of 2007, based on
JPMorgan’s estimates. SAC Capital holds 57 percent of Cosmos
while, General Electric Co.’s financial unit holds 25 percent.  The stock advanced 1 percent to NT$14.90 today, 18 percent
higher than the NT$12.60 a share that  GE Capital  spent when it
began investing in January 2006.  First Profit  Cosmos, which was among Taiwanese card issuers plagued by
defaults, in March 2009 said it would close a fifth of its
branches to cut costs after more than two consecutive years of
 losses . The Taipei-based bank reported a profit for the first
time in seven years in 2012.  Jonathan Gasthalter, an external spokesman for SAC Capital
from corporate strategy firm Sard Verbinnen & Co., declined to
comment on whether the stake would be sold. A spokeswoman at
Cosmos, who sent an e-mailed response, declined to comment.  GE Capital doesn’t comment on market speculation and will
continue to work with Cosmos to keep strengthening its business
franchise, Eric Lee, a Singapore-based spokesman at GE Capital,
said in an e-mailed response to questions on Sept. 27.  TPG Capital took a loss on its investment in Taiwan’s
Taishin Financial Holding Co., two people familiar with the
matter said earlier this year.  The U.S. firm, whose Asian unit was called Newbridge
Capital LLC, became the largest shareholder in Taishin after it
agreed to buy NT$27 billion of shares and convertible bonds in
January 2006. The  Fort Worth , Texas-based firm sold stakes in
December 2011 and July 2012.  TPG’s rivals, which face a long wait ahead if they don’t
want to incur a similar loss, are losing patience, said Chang of
Jih Sun Securities.  “The PE firms know that they can’t just expect the share
prices to climb back to 2007 levels,” he said. “That is simply
unrealistic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong  at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  