-- Carney Says BOE Aims to Avoid Boom-Bust Property Market
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-10-03T08:23:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/carney-says-boe-won-t-tighten-policy-until-u-k-growth-sustained.html
Bank of  England  Governor  Mark Carney 
said policy makers must make sure the housing market recovers in
a sustainable way as the government accelerates its program to
aid homebuyers.  “We will take those responsibilities very deliberately,
very prudently and act in a proportionate fashion in a way that
is consistent, that intends to be consistent, with a sustainable
housing market,” Carney said in an interview with ITV Anglia
broadcast yesterday on its  website . The BOE has tools to ensure
the housing market “isn’t in a boom and then a bust phase.”  Britain’s property market has strengthened in recent
months, prompting concerns that the government’s Help to Buy
housing plan may fuel a bubble. Data today showed  house prices 
climbed to their highest level in five years last month. While
BOE Markets Director Paul Fisher yesterday played down fears,
the central bank has said it will be “vigilant” to risks and
the Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  has requested it
carry out an annual review of his program.  “We have a range of tools we could potentially use and we
need to use them in the context of other programs,” Carney
said. They include an “affordability test, so individuals who
are taking out mortgages today will be able to pay it down the
road when interest rates eventually rise, as they will
eventually as the recovery really takes hold.”  IMF Warning  With the government’s Help to Buy program prompting a
warning from the  International Monetary Fund  that it could over-inflate house prices, Prime Minister  David Cameron  has defied
critics and said the second phase of the program will start now,
three months earlier than planned.  House values  increased 0.3 percent in September from
August, an eighth consecutive gain, mortgage lender Halifax said
today. That takes the average house price to its  highest level 
since September 2008, it said.  The Halifax data follows a report from Hometrack Ltd. that
showed values rose the most in more than six years in September,
and comments from  Nationwide Building Society  that homebuilding
is “well below” the pace needed to keep up with demand.  In the ITV Anglia interview, Carney also said the central
bank won’t tighten monetary policy until the U.K. economy is
growing at a sustainable rate as he took his message to
executives outside London.  “We’re not going to begin to think about raising interest
rates or tightening monetary policy until we see the conditions
in the economy where the economy is really growing -- and
growing at a sustained pace,” he said.  Record Low  BOE policy makers have said they’ll keep their key  interest
rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent at least until the 
unemployment  rate, now at 7.7 percent, drops to 7 percent.
Carney is pushing the message to consumers and executives and
his tour of East Anglia follows a similar visit to the north of
England last week.  Carney said the aim of guidance is “to provide business in
this region and across the country with that greater degree of
certainty” about monetary policy.  “This recovery, to gain traction, to be sustainable, to
really move forward, is going to turn on regions like East
Anglia, it’s going to turn on regions outside of London,” he
told ITV Anglia. Carney also said an increase in business
sentiment should help get businesses “greater confidence to
start to hire and invest.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  