-- Stagehands Making $400,000-Plus Strike Carnegie Opening
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2013-10-02T19:04:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/carnegie-hall-cancels-opening-night-concert-after-strike.html
A strike by Carnegie Hall stagehands,
whose pay with overtime tops $400,000 a year, canceled the
venue’s important season-opening concert tonight featuring the
Philadelphia Orchestra, superstar violinist Joshua Bell and
vocalist  Esperanza Spalding .  (The scheduled Opening Night Gala dinner, benefiting
Carnegie Hall’s artistic and education programs, still takes
place at the Waldorf Astoria’s Grand Ballroom, beginning at 6
p.m.).  “No stagehands, no show!” dozens of members of Local One
of the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees
chanted outside Carnegie Hall’s 57th-street entrance earlier
today. “Stand up, fight back!”  The stagehands demand jurisdiction over a new upstairs
education wing.  Carnegie Hall, in a statement, said doing so “would divert
significant funds away from the Hall’s music education programs
and into stagehand fees.”  “Local One also demands that Carnegie Hall displace other
union employees currently performing maintenance work in the new
Education Wing, insisting that stagehands perform this work,
which will involve a substantially higher cost,” according to
the statement.  Five Lucky Guys  Picketers referred questions to Local One President James
J. Claffey Jr., who they said was meeting with Carnegie Hall
management.  Dennis O’Connell, the hall’s longtime properties manager,
who earned $465,000 in 2011, declined to talk to a reporter.  Carnegie Hall employs five full-time stagehands and uses
part-timers as needed, a spokeswoman, Synneve Carlino, said in
an e-mail.  The full-timers earned an average of $420,000 in 2011,
according to the tax return. They move equipment in and out of
the building and prepare three stages for performances, while
operating audiovisual and other equipment. They work on holidays
and weekends.  Claffey confirmed the strike in an outgoing recorded
message on his telephone line at Local One headquarters west of
Times Square and instructed union members to gather at the
hall’s West 57th Street address to man picket lines.  Ticketholders can direct questions to CarnegieCharge at +1-212-247-7800.  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on restaurants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 