-- CBA’s Narev Says Australian Banks Must Watch Rising House Prices
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2013-10-02T07:47:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/cba-s-narev-says-australian-banks-must-watch-rising-house-prices.html
Commonwealth Bank of Australia  Chief
Executive Officer Ian Narev, head of the country’s largest
mortgage lender, said the nation’s banking industry needs to be
watchful of house price increases to avoid a bubble.  While current home price gains are justified by supply and
demand fundamentals, the impact of an extended period of low
interest rates should be monitored, Narev told reporters after a
speech in  Melbourne  today.  “We’ve got to realize that if we are in a sustained period
of low interest rates, it is something we have to keep our eyes
on,” he said.  Australian  home prices  surged to a record in September as
the lowest  mortgage rates  in four years attracted buyers. Prices
gained about 5 percent this year in the country’s biggest
cities, led by an 8 percent jump in Sydney. They may rise as
much as 11 percent next year, property researcher SQM Research
Pty. said on Sept. 17.  Commonwealth Bank’s mortgage business expanded 5 percent in
the six months to June 30, according to stock exchange filings.
Mortgages represent 60 percent of gross loans for the Sydney-based bank.  Australia ’s central bank, which this week left its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at a record low, sounded a
note of caution in its financial stability review last week,
saying property buyers needed to have “realistic expectations
of future dwelling price growth.”  Possible Shocks  Australia’s economy faces “possible financial shocks”
from external circumstances such as a slowdown in  China  and so-called tapering by the U.S. Federal Reserve, Narev said. “If
that reverberates into the Australian economy, there will be
risks to all sectors, including the property sector,” he said.  House prices  may continue to rise because Australia is
building less accommodation than the population needs, John Morschel, Chairman of  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ) , said today in a speech in Sydney.  “Naturally, you’re going to have increasing housing prices
once the conditions seem reasonable for people to borrow,” he
said. “I don’t believe it’s a bubble. It might be two years
down the track, but I don’t believe it’s a bubble at the
moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  