-- Cerberus Capital Said to Express Interest in BlackBerry
-- B y   D a v i d   C a r e y   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-10-03T22:08:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/cerberus-capital-said-to-express-interest-in-blackberry.html
BlackBerry Ltd. (BB) , the struggling
smartphone maker looking to sell itself, has drawn interest from
private-equity firm Cerberus Capital Management LP, according to
a person with knowledge of the matter.  Cerberus is looking to sign a confidentiality agreement
with BlackBerry that would give it access to additional
financial data, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the negotiations are private. Cerberus’s interest in
BlackBerry, which may not lead to a bid, was reported earlier by
the Wall Street Journal.  BlackBerry’s largest shareholder,  Fairfax Financial
Holdings Ltd. (FFH) , made a tentative offer on Sept. 23 to buy the
company for $4.7 billion, saying it was leading a group of
investors. Fairfax didn’t disclose the name of its partners and
hadn’t yet lined up financing at the time, raising concern that
the deal would fall through.  BlackBerry slid 2.9 percent to $7.73 at the close in  New
York , leaving it well below Fairfax’s $9-a-share bid. Even with
the takeover speculation, the stock has dropped by 35 percent
this year, dragged down by the company’s dimming sales prospects
and mounting losses.  Chrysler, Supervalu  Cerberus would bring expertise dealing with troubled
companies. The New York-based firm, which  manages  more than $20
billion in assets, invested in automaker Chrysler in 2007 and
led a group that acquired grocery-store chains from  Supervalu
Inc. (SVU)  earlier this year.  Some of Cerberus’s investments have been difficult to turn
around. In 2005, the firm agreed to pay $2.3 billion for
NewPage, which makes coated covers for magazines. NewPage filed
for bankruptcy in 2011 as it struggled with a shift of readers
online. Cerberus’s investment in  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , which was
then known as GMAC Inc., suffered from the sluggish economy and
its holding was diluted by a government rescue plan.  Adam Emery, a spokesman for Waterloo, Ontario-based
BlackBerry, declined to discuss any talks that may be under way.  “We do not intend to disclose further developments with
respect to the process until we approve a specific transaction
or otherwise conclude the review of strategic alternatives,”
Emery said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
David Carey in New York at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  