-- Cheapest State Costs Showing Resilience to Shutdown: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-10-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/cheapest-state-costs-showing-resilience-to-shutdown-muni-credit.html
The biggest rally in U.S. state bonds
in two years shows investors are betting the governments will
weather the federal shutdown and any failure by lawmakers to
raise the nation’s debt ceiling.  Yields on state general obligations are about 1 percentage
point under the average for the $3.7 trillion municipal market,
close to the widest advantage since August 2011, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data show.  Investors are speculating that 15 straight quarters of
rising  tax revenue  will cushion states against the federal
spending impasse and possible cutbacks as the U.S. approaches a
deadline of about Oct. 17 to raise the $16.7 trillion debt
limit.  “At the state level, revenues are coming in stronger than
what budgets anticipated,” said Linda Murphy, a muni analyst in
Baltimore at T. Rowe Price Group Inc., which oversees $20
billion in local debt. “If we have a little bit of a backup
because of a federal shutdown, I’m not really concerned.”  Forty states rely on federal revenue for at least 31
percent of total government funds, according to Moody’s
Investors Service. Yet the rally shows confidence in the
governments after they cut costs and curbed spending to balance
budgets following the 18-month recession that ended in 2009.  Recession Rebound  States trimmed  payrolls  to the lowest since 2004, slowed
borrowing for new projects and collected 9.4 percent more tax
revenue in the second quarter versus a year earlier, data from
Moody’s, the Labor Department and the Census Bureau show.  The federal government’s first partial shutdown since 1995
began with the fiscal year starting yesterday. Legislation to
fund the government stalled as congressional Republicans stuck
with demands for changes in President  Barack Obama ’s 2010
Affordable Care Act. Obama and congressional Democrats refused
to go along.  The stalemate may cost the U.S. at least $300 million a day
in lost economic output, according to research firm IHS. While
that’s a fraction of the country’s $15.7 trillion economy, the
effects probably will grow as consumers and businesses defer
spending.  Even if the budget standoff is resolved, lawmakers would
face the next fiscal dispute over raising the debt ceiling.
Failure to do so would lead to a first-ever default, subjecting
all federal spending to possible cuts.  Passing Bucks  States such as  Louisiana , Idaho and  Arizona , which rely on
federal dollars for at least 41 percent of total funds, may
compensate by transferring less money to localities and health-care providers, Moody’s said. Munis backed by federal mass-transit aid are most vulnerable, the company said.  Dependence on federal spending doesn’t guarantee fiscal
strength.  Idaho  had the strongest economy of any state in the 12
months through June, while Louisiana’s was fifth-worst,
according to the Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States index.
The health of 44 states improved in the period.  Federal cuts could extend declines in state payrolls. The
number of people employed at the state level fell to 5.01
million in August, the least since December 2004, Labor
Department data show.  Balanced Budgets  “In the case of spending, states for the most part have
had to get their houses in order sooner because of their
requirement for balanced budgets,” said Gregg Bienstock, chief
executive officer of  Stamford , Connecticut-based Lumesis Inc.,
which compiles economic and demographic data.  Many federal employees reporting to work yesterday were
given time to prepare for the shutdown before being sent home
until Congress passes a spending measure. National parks and
museums were shuttered.  On top of the blow from furloughed workers, states will
also suffer from lost federal-grant money, said  Scott Pattison ,
executive director of the  National Association of State Budget
Officers  in  Washington .  “It’s one of those things that you can muddle through
without a lot of problems for a very short period of time,”
Pattison said in an interview. A shutdown extending beyond this
week “becomes more and more serious,” he said.  Oklahoma Governor Mary Fallin, a Republican, and Colorado
Governor John Hickenlooper, a Democrat, co-signed a National
Governors Association letter to Obama and congressional leaders
that called the potential effect of not increasing the debt
limit “severe” for state economies.  Governors’ Plea  “Over the past several years governors have made tough
choices to balance our state budgets and do more with less,”
the governors said in the  letter . “A lack of certainty at the
federal level from a shutdown therefore translates directly into
uncertainty and instability at the state level.”  The events this month highlight how state and local
general-obligation bonds have become more sensitive to the
economy, said Michael Zezas, chief municipal strategist at
Morgan Stanley in  New York . He rates the two segments as the
least attractive among nine areas in a Sept. 25 report.  “Most of the repair states have done is based on strong
revenue growth as opposed to other structural fixes, and that
revenue growth is largely based on a cyclical rebound in the
economy,” Zezas said in an interview. “If you take that growth
away, you stunt the pace of repair.”  Avoid Local  General-obligation bonds are backed by the full faith and
credit of states and cities, which can raise money through
taxes. No state has defaulted on debt since  Arkansas  during the
Great Depression.  “Within general-obligation bonds, we have a preference for
states over locals -- the powers states have are so much
stronger,” T. Rowe’s Murphy said. “My general feeling is this
is going to be a little painful at the margin, but more of a
passing thing.”  In the municipal market this week, localities from  South
Carolina  to  California  are selling $3.6 billion in long-term
debt with yields near the lowest since June.  Top-rated 10-year munis yield  2.72 percent , Bloomberg data
show. The  interest rate  compares with  2.65 percent  for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The ratio of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 103 percent, compared with an average of 93 percent since
2001. The higher the figure, the cheaper munis are compared with
federal securities.  Following is a pending sale:  Florida ’s Broward County plans to offer about $434 million
in  airport-system revenue bonds  next week to finance work at
Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport, including the
expansion of terminals and a runway. The bonds are backed by
liens on airport revenue such as from carrier fees, car rentals
and parking. The issue will add to the county’s existing airport
debt of about $1.1 billion, sale documents show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  