-- Chemical Weapons Control Isn’t All About Syria
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-10-02T21:39:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/chemical-weapons-control-isn-t-all-about-syria.html
In the 15 years that the  Chemical
Weapons Convention  banning the use or possession of such arms
has been in force,  78 percent  of the world’s declared stores has
been destroyed, and the rest are scheduled for demolition. With
the  arrival in Syria  this week of an international team to
inspect this regime’s program, there is hope that another
significant stockpile will be demobilized.  Of course, the goal is to have no chemical weapons left in
the world, elusive as that may be.  Syria  was pressed to accept
the weapons ban in order to ensure that the Aug. 21 massacre in
which some 1,400 people died in the Damascus suburb of Ghouta is
not repeated. But what can be done to reduce the possibility of
another such atrocity elsewhere?  One goal should be to improve the control of chemicals that
can be used to make weapons.  After Syria officially joins the convention on Oct. 14 --
as part of the  U.S.-Russia plan  to decommission its chemical
weapons program -- the country will have to fully account for
all the chemical arms it has ever had throughout its history, as
well as detail any assistance or imports of chemical agents or
precursors it has received from abroad. Finding out who may have
aided Syria in gathering its stockpile will help plug holes in
international enforcement of the convention.  Even if Syria received no help or if the facts can’t be
determined, it is only prudent for all countries to improve
controls on chemicals that can be used for weapons. Given the
enormous volume of trade that national inspectors must police,
it will always be difficult to stop proliferators who are
determined to skirt the rules. But governments can work harder
to prevent unintentional violations, many committed by the
increasing number of small companies that aren’t even aware of
their legal obligations -- for instance, to know who their
customers are and how they intend to use sensitive materials.  Infractions are a special concern in  Russia ,  China  and
 India , where chemical industries aren’t well organized.
Governments there should follow the example of the U.S. Commerce
Department, which holds seminars -- co-sponsored by chemical
industry associations -- to educate companies about the law.  Another step toward eradicating chemical weapons is to get
the seven countries that have not yet joined the convention to
come on board. Unfortunately, the one that is thought to have
the most significant unaccounted stores, outside Syria,  is North
Korea  -- a country that is unlikely to accede to the convention
anytime soon. However,  Egypt  and  Israel, which may also  have
chemical weapons, might be persuaded to join.  Israel has at least signed, though not yet ratified, the
treaty. Yet it may be talked into doing so if the program in
Syria, a bitter foe, is truly destroyed. After all, with its
nuclear arsenal,  Israel  doesn’t need chemical weapons, or the
specter of them, for deterrent power.  Egypt,  which used  chemical agents in Yemen in the 1960s,
should be pressed to sign up at the same time as Israel.  Of the remaining four countries,  Taiwan  poses a special
problem; it can’t be a member of the convention because China
is. So Taiwan’s sizable chemical industry isn’t subject to
inspection by the  Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical
Weapons , which enforces the treaty. A solution would be to apply
the model used for the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty: The
 International Atomic Energy Agency  applies nuclear safeguards to
Taiwan as if it were a party to the convention.  The remaining outlier states --  Angola ,  South Sudan  and
Myanmar -- have no objections to joining the convention but have
 not made it a priority , given the burden of reporting involved
and their relatively paltry resources.  Intense lobbying by OPCW officials and offers of help in
drafting supporting legislation have in the past turned such
small states around and could do so again. However, the
organization itself is hurting for funds. Its budget of $92
million was flat for several years before it was cut by 5
percent last year. Major funders, including the U.S., had
discussed another reduction this year.  Given the potential for progress in Syria, those cuts
should be reconsidered. The backlash against the horror in
Ghouta should be seized upon to ensure that no one is exposed to
chemical weapons again.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 