-- China May Raise Price Bid for Kazakh Oil, Kazakhstan Says
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2013-10-02T21:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/china-may-raise-price-bid-for-kazakh-oil-kazakhstan-says.html
China  may offer a higher price for
oil from Kazakhstan’s Kashagan project as it competes for the
crude with other countries surrounding the Central Asian state.  “Right now at the Chinese border the prices aren’t exactly
market -- they are significantly lower,” Kairgeldy Kabyldin,
head of Kazakh pipeline operator AO KazTransOil, said yesterday
in Almaty. “Our Chinese colleagues have announced that they
will give a price” that’s competitive with oil traveling to
Russia.  The $48 billion Kashagan deposit, which may become
Kazakhstan’s largest producing oilfield, started output last
month after years of delays. The project partners, including
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Eni SpA (ENI) , have the
option to export via several routes once production ramps up,
with Russia, Azerbaijan and China vying to transport the crude.  China National Petroleum Corp. bought an 8.33 percent stake
in Kashagan from state-owned KazMunaiGaz National Co. last
month. China is seeking to import more crude to feed growing
energy demand as its economy expands.  Kashagan exports are due to begin this month. Production at
the Caspian Sea field will rise to 370,000 barrels a day in the
first phase from an initial 40,000 barrels a day, Kurmangazy
Iskaziyev, deputy head of KazMunaiGaz, said yesterday in Almaty.  CPC Pipe  The priority route for Kashagan crude will be the Chevron
Corp.-backed Caspian Pipeline Consortium link, which runs to the
Russian Black Sea port of Novorossiysk, Iskaziyev said.
Companies without access to the CPC link can use  Russia ’s
Atyrau-Samara link or the route via China, Kabyldin said.  CPC offers the most profitable route because the crude
retains its quality in transit, according to KazTransOil’s
Kabyldin. The Russian network to Samara doesn’t offer the same
guarantee, and the exported crude sells as Urals blend, which
currently sells at $3.50 a barrel less than Kazakh oil, he said.  The Azeri route and rail options also aren’t as profitable,
Nurtas Shmanov, deputy head of transportation at KazMunaiGaz,
said yesterday. Kashagan partners are yet to come to an
agreement with China to open up the eastern route, he said.  The Chinese route, running from Atyrau in western
Kazakhstan to Alashankou in northwest China, may be a viable
option as CNPC is discussing pricing with Kashagan partners, as
well as with developers of other Kazakh oil projects such as
Tengiz and Karachaganak, Kabyldin said. The route could handle 3
million tons this year and 6 million tons next year, he said.  Two calls to state-owned CNPC outside normal office hours
went unanswered yesterday.  Exxon, Shell, Eni and  Total SA (FP)  each hold 16.81 percent of
the Kashagan project.  Japan ’s  Inpex Corp. (1605)  owns 7.56 percent and
KazMunaiGaz 16.88 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net ;
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  