-- Coal to Surpass Gas in Southeast Asia Power Boom, IEA Says
-- B y   W i n n i e   Z h u
-- 2013-10-02T07:18:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/coal-to-surpass-gas-in-southeast-asia-power-use-boom-iea-says.html
Coal will replace natural gas as the
dominant fuel for producing electricity in  Southeast Asia  as the
region almost doubles its energy consumption in the next two
decades, according to the  International Energy Agency .  The 10 members of ASEAN, with energy demand growing at more
than twice the global average, will get 49 percent of their
power from coal by 2035, up from 31 percent in 2011, the IEA
said today in its Southeast Asia Energy Outlook. The share from
gas will drop to 28 percent from 44 percent.  “Coal is emerging as the fuel of choice because of its
relative abundance and affordability in the region,” Maria Van
der Hoeven,  executive director  for the IEA, said today in
Bangkok. “As long as fuel-price differentials continue to favor
coal over gas by a significant margin, Southeast  Asia ’s
incremental power generation is set to be dominated by coal.”  While the trends support plans by  Indonesia , the world’s
top exporter of thermal coal, to almost double output by 2035,
emissions linked to  climate change  will increase at the same
rate, the IEA forecasts. Coal, which emits about twice as much
carbon as gas, is the fuel source for about 75 percent of power-generating capacity being built by members of the Association of
Southeast Asia Nations, the IEA said.  Malaysia buys 68 percent of its coal for electricity
generation from Indonesia and 17 percent from  Australia , Mohamad
Nazri Bin Shahruddin, a vice president at Tenaga Nasional, said
in a Sept. 23 presentation.  Largest Coal Producers  Bumi Resources Tbk PT (BUMI) , based in Jakarta, is Indonesia’s
largest coal producer. Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore Xstrata
Plc, the world’s biggest exporter of thermal coal, scaled back
its Australian operation this year as prices fell.  The cost of power from coal will be about 30 percent
cheaper than gas in Southeast Asia, the IEA forecasts. That
assumes prices of about $80 a metric ton for coal and about $10
per million British thermal units for natural gas.  “A comparison of electricity generating costs demonstrates
a strong competitive advantage for coal-fired plants under a
wide range of coal and gas prices,” the IEA said. While coal
has the edge, gas will remain the second-biggest source of
generation, it said.  Benchmark Coal Price  Asia’s  benchmark  price for coal fell to $76.10 a metric ton
on Aug. 9, the lowest since 2009, amid a glut of the power-station fuel. It traded at $78.30 on Sept. 27.  Natural gas futures in  New York  will climb above $4 per
million Btu this year as low supplies coincide with increasing
consumption, according to estimates from banks including Bank of
America Corp. Liquefied natural gas shipped to Asia has been
about four times as much, trading as high as $19.40 per million
Btu in February, according to WGI prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Southeast Asia’s energy demand will rise to about 1 billion
tons of oil equivalent by 2035, representing more than 10
percent of the world’s growth in energy use, the IEA said.  Use of natural gas will rise 77 percent to 250 billion
cubic meters over the same period, from 141 billion, as higher
prices slow the demand growth for the cleaner fuel. Coal
consumption will triple, growing by 4.8 percent annually on
average, the IEA forecasts.  Shale-Gas Revolution  Oil demand in the region will rise to 6.8 million barrels a
day from 4.4 million now, according to the report. Net crude
imports will increase to more than 5 million barrels a day by
2035, the fourth highest after  China ,  India  and the European
Union, it said.  Southeast Asia’s growing demand for oil will offset
declining imports by the U.S., which is producing more crude
thanks to the boom in output from shale. U.S. consumption is
forecast to stay around 18.7 million barrels a day by 2014,
below the peak of 20.8 million in 2005, according to its Energy
Information Administration. Net oil imports will fall to 5.71
million next year, EIA said Aug. 9.  “The U.S. shale-gas revolution can’t be copied
elsewhere,” Van der Hoeven said. Geological and logistical 
constraints means output from shale won’t be significant in
China before 2020, she said.  Deterring Investment  Southeast Asia’s annual spending on net oil imports will
rise to $240 billion, almost 4 percent of its gross domestic
product, the IEA forecast.  Thailand  and Indonesia’s spending is
projected to triple to almost $70 billion each in 2035.  Fossil-fuel subsidies remain an obstacle to reducing oil
demand in Southeast Asia despite some progress, the IEA said.
Subsidies stood at $51 billion last year, deterring investment
and development of renewable energy.  Malaysia raised fuel prices earlier this month for the
first time since 2010 to curb subsidies that have stretched
government budgets and threatened investor confidence.
Neighboring Indonesia increased gasoline and diesel prices in
June for the first time since 2008.  “Had Indonesia not made its recent reforms,  government
spending  on energy subsidies would have reached levels
comparable to spending on health and education,” the IEA said.
“The impact on government budgets is being compounded in a
number of cases, including Indonesia, Malaysia and  Vietnam , by
growing pressure to divert fossil fuel production away from
lucrative exports markets to domestic markets to satisfy fast-growing demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  