-- Company Borrowing Costs Rise in Europe as U.S. Shutdown Extends
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-10-02T10:51:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/company-borrowing-costs-rise-in-europe-as-u-s-shutdown-extends.html
Borrowing costs for investment-grade
companies rose to the highest in two weeks in Europe amid
concern the partial U.S. government shutdown will merge with the
fight over increasing the nation’s debt limit.  The average yield investors demand to hold euro-denominated
corporate bonds climbed 8 basis points to 2 percent, the highest
since Sept. 18, Bloomberg  bond index  data show. The cost of
protecting the debt against losses also rose, with the Markit
iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default swaps on 125 high-grade
borrowers climbing 1 basis point to 100 basis points at 11:10
a.m. in London.  The first day of the shutdown ended with no talks scheduled
between the White House and Congress, raising concerns the
deadlock will compound another standoff over the debt ceiling.
Officials have about two weeks to agree to increase the
government’s $16.7 trillion borrowing limit and allow it to
continue paying its debts.  “If the shutdown isn’t resolved by the 17th, when the
Treasury says funds will run out, the discussions will bleed
into the debt ceiling negotiations in Congress,” said Joseph Faith, a credit strategist at Citigroup Inc. in London. “The
closer to the deadline we get, the more likely it is that the
market will begin to worry about a technical default, as
unlikely as it seems.”  The average yield premium for euro-denominated securities
over the benchmark mid-swap rate rose 3.8 basis points to 88
basis points, the widest spread since Sept. 11, according to
Bloomberg bond index data.  New Issuance  In the new issue market today, Belgian electricity and
natural gas distributor Eandis CVBA is raising 500 million euros
($677 million) from 10-year bonds to yield 85 basis points more
than swaps, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Sponda OYJ (SDA1V) , a Finnish property investor, is selling 150
million euros of notes due October 2018 yielding 220 basis
points more than swaps, while Helsinki-based lender Aktia Bank
Oyj is marketing 300 million euros of four-year notes at a
spread of 85 basis points.  Oberthur Technologies, a provider of security services
based in the Paris suburb of Levallois-Perret, started meeting
investors in Europe today to market a debut sale of 200 million
euros of 6 1/2-year senior notes. The proceeds from the bonds,
to be issued through the company’s Oberthur Technologies Holding
SAS unit, will be used to help repay debt drawn from credit
facilities, according to a person familiar with the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in  London  at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  