-- Constancio Says European Banks Undervalued, FT Reports
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-10-02T08:25:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/constancio-says-european-banks-undervalued-ft-reports.html
European Central Bank Vice President
 Vitor Constancio  said investors have yet to price in that
European banks are as strong as U.S. lenders in terms of their
capital levels, the Financial Times reported.  “The situation of the European banks is better than market
perceptions,” Constancio said in an interview, according to the
FT. “If you take the largest European and American banks, you
find that the median common equity Tier 1 capital of European
banks is slightly above the median of U.S. banks.”  The ECB will start supervising European lenders next year
in a step toward a banking union that is designed to sever the
link between banks and sovereigns. It is due to conduct a risk
review before analyzing banks’ balance sheets and conducting
stress tests in collaboration with the London-based European
Banking Authority.  Constancio said the scope of the asset review would be
tailored to individual banks’ risk profiles, business models and
home countries, and will harmonize diverging definitions of non-performing loans, according to the FT. ECB Executive Board
member Yves Mersch said in August that the  risk assessment  will
form the basis for picking the assets that will be scrutinized
for each bank.  “Of course we will define priorities according to the
known situations in each country,” Constancio told the FT. “In
some places, real estate poses potentially more problems than
other asset classes. In other countries it’s shipping loans and
we will take that into consideration in the size and depth of
the sampling in our exercise.”  The ECB will publish banks’ capital positions, including
possible shortfalls, after the asset review and the  stress test 
and before it formally starts supervision, Constancio said. By
that time, the European Stability Mechanism may become a
backstop vehicle for re-capitalizing banks that can’t tap the
market for funds, he said, according to the FT.  The exercise will result in a “scoring” system for banks’
financial health modeled on a similar U.S. formula, Constancio
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  