-- Copper Prices Rebound From One-Week Low on Europe Outlook
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2013-10-02T17:27:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/copper-swings-between-gains-and-drops-amid-shutdown-in-u-s-.html
Copper futures rebounded from a one-week low as signs that Europe’s recovery is starting to gain
traction buoyed prospects for metal demand.  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi refrained from
signaling that any new measures were needed to boost the
recovery. Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta won a confidence
vote in parliament, avoiding the need for another election. The
euro strengthened the most in two weeks against the dollar,
boosting the appeal of commodities as alternative investments.  “Europe’s recovery looks like it’s starting to work out
better, and the selloff in the dollar is very bullish for
copper,” Michael Smith, the president of T&K Futures & Options
in Port St. Lucie,  Florida , said in a telephone interview.
“Europe and Asia seem to have put the worst behind them, and
that bodes well for demand.”  Copper futures for December delivery added 1.3 percent to
settle at $3.316 a pound at 1:08 p.m. on the Comex in New York.
Earlier, the price touched $3.248, the lowest for a most-active
contract since Sept. 24.  Gains may be limited by concern that a partial closing of
the government will curtail a rebound in the U.S., the world’s
biggest economy, Smith said. Lawmakers remained in a standoff
over the budget as the shutdown entered a second day.  Copper  stockpiles  monitored by the London Metal Exchange
fell for the 20th straight session to 531,875 metric tons, the
lowest since March 15.  On the LME, copper for delivery in three months climbed 1.1
percent to $7,279 a ton ($3.30 a pound). Aluminum, lead and zinc
also rose. Tin declined, while nickel was unchanged.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in Washington at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  