-- Corporate Pay Overhaul Sought by U.K. Accounting Regulator
-- B y   S u z i   R i n g
-- 2013-10-02T14:10:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/corporate-pay-rules-overhaul-sought-by-u-k-accounting-regulator.html
The U.K.’s accounting regulator said
it may overhaul rules for corporate pay and introduce measures
to make it easier to seize executive bonuses.  The Financial Reporting Council may propose changes to the
U.K. Corporate Governance Code that would also restrict who can
serve as a non-executive director on remuneration committees.
The proposals follow U.K. legislation on the approval of
executive pay, which went into force yesterday.  “The government’s new legislation underlines the
importance of boards and investors engaging on directors’
remuneration,” FRC Chairwoman Sarah Hogg said in a statement.
“The FRC is undertaking this consultation to understand if
there is a case for changes to the code.”  Regulators and government have pondered for more than a
year on ways to better align remuneration with company
performance and hand more power to shareholders. The FRC said it
will look at bonus clawback arrangements, executives sitting as
non-executives on peer remuneration committees, and steps to
take when pay is not agreed by majority vote. “Institutions
have already taken a harder line on clawbacks in recent years,
so any changes would be a catch-up with existing good
practice,” said Carol Shutkever, a lawyer at Herbert Smith
Freehills LLP. “The idea that individuals who are already
executives may not be able to sit as non-executives on another
company’s remuneration committee would not, I think, be the
right way to go.”  Industry groups can offer their views on the changes and no
new rules would take effect before October 2014, the FRC said.  “These are subjects in the public consciousness,” said Jo
Iwasaki, head of corporate governance at the Institute of
Chartered Accountants in  England  and Wales. “I think it is
important to see if investors and companies want the code itself
to be changed and how specific it needs to be or whether high-level principles are enough.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suzi Ring in London at 
 sring5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  