-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Hold; TransCanada Sells $1.25 Billion Bonds
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-10-02T20:55:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/credit-swaps-in-u-s-hold-transcanada-sells-1-25-billion-bonds.html
A gauge of U.S. company credit risk
held as investors prepare for an economic slowdown from the
first partial government shutdown since 1996.  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) 
sold $1.25 billion in dollar-denominated bonds.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
0.3 basis point to 79.7 basis points as of 4:20 p.m. in  New
York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  A two-week continuation of the closure that started
yesterday may cut economic growth by 0.3 percentage point to a
2.3 percent rate, according to St. Louis-based Macroeconomic
Advisers LLC. A decrease in economic activity makes it tougher
for companies to repay debt.  “If the shutdown persists long enough and gets bad enough
for the economy, then it will have negative repercussions for
the investment-grade index,” Marc Gross, a  money manager  at RS
Investments in New York who oversees $3.5 billion, said in a
telephone interview. A long-lasting closedown “will have an
effect on everything from corporate earnings all the way to
mortgage applications,” he said.  The index typically climbs as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  TransCanada Sale  A unit of  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) , the Calgary-based gas pipeline
owner, issued $625 million each of 3.75 percent, 10-year notes
that yield 120 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries and 5 percent, 30-year bonds at a 130 basis-point
spread, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Proceeds from the sale will be used for general corporate
purposes and to reduce short-term debt, according to a  filing 
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The notes are expected to be rated A3 by Moody’s Investors
Service, according to a person familiar with the offering, who
asked not to be identified because terms aren’t set.  Moody’s Liquidity-Stress Index, which increases as
speculative-grade corporations’ ability to manage cash needs
worsens, rose to 3.8 percent in September from 3.7 percent in
August, according to a research note from Moody’s analysts led
by John Puchalla. That’s the highest level for the index since
November 2012.  The Markit CDX North American High Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade bonds, fell 2.2 basis
point to 388.3 basis points, Bloomberg prices show.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries tightened 0.4 basis point to 132.3
basis points, Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt rose 3.6 basis points to 671.1.  Investment-grade debt is rated Baa3 or higher at Moody’s
and at least BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  