-- Credit Suisse’s Drew Sees More Women in Senior Bank Jobs
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2013-10-03T09:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/credit-suisse-s-drew-sees-more-women-in-senior-bank-jobs.html
Marisa Drew,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s
most senior female investment banker in Europe, expects it will
take at least five years before women start to gain a greater
share of senior positions in the industry.  “It takes about 10 years to see the talent pipeline come
through, and we’re probably about four to five years in from the
inflection point of when we saw a materially more evenly
balanced intake at the junior level in Europe,” Drew, 49, said
in an interview at Credit Suisse’s office in London.  Banking trails other industries in the number of board
positions held by women, according to  data  compiled by
recruitment firm Egon Zehnder International. Women make up about
19 percent of European bank boards, compared with 33 percent in
the household-products industry, which has the highest level of
female representation, the data show. Fiona Woolf, a partner of
the law firm CMS Cameron McKenna LLP, this week was named to be
the 686th Lord Mayor of  London , only the second woman chosen to
head the financial district’s municipal government in 800 years.  One of the keys to boosting female representation is to
retain bankers when they move from processing transactions
originated by more senior colleagues to striking their own
deals, making more direct contact with clients, Drew said.  Typically, that promotion coincides with women starting a
family, and it “can be overwhelming,” said Drew, who has been
married for 24 years and has no children. Credit Suisse,
Switzerland’s second-largest lender, doesn’t disclose specific
targets for boosting the number of women at its investment bank.  Companywide Numbers  Like most banks, Zurich-based Credit Suisse doesn’t
publicly report the number of women employed by division, and
instead provides companywide percentages. In 2012, more than a
third of the bank’s employees were female, including 16 percent
in senior management, filings show. The bank had about 46,300
employees as of June 30.  At  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , continental Europe’s biggest lender,
women accounted for about 18 percent of managing directors and
directors at the firm at the end of 2012, up from about 15
percent four years earlier, according to its latest annual
report. About 22 percent of  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s directors or more senior
employees were female at the end of 2012, according to the
annual report of Switzerland’s biggest bank, compared with 21
percent in 2011.  Investment banks lag behind U.K. and European consumer
banks in female representation with 10 percent of the boards
made up of women, according to a  survey  published by British
recruitment firm Astbury Marsden in September.  Flexible Hours  “Investment banking still hasn’t evolved materially in
terms of the job structure and creating the flexibility that
other industries like perhaps tech have, but it’s changing,”
Drew said. “We as managers have to be more creative and less
rigid and adopting the attitude of: ‘I don’t care where you get
it done or how you get it done as long as you get it done by
when the client needs it done.’”  Drew works with the  Women in Banking & Finance  industry
association and backed a flexible working initiative at Credit
Suisse, which was tested during the London Olympics in 2012.
She’s also devised jobs for bankers who deal with clients to
allow them to work part time or from home.  Drew, who’s been in investment banking for more than 25
years, was named co-head of European investment-banking
department with Ewen Stevenson, 47, in May, replacing Jamie Welch. The firm ranks ninth in providing European merger advice
this year and seventh in managing stock sales in Europe, Middle
East and  Africa , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Drew’s Deals  She moved to Credit Suisse from Merrill Lynch & Co. to head
its European leveraged corporate finance business in 2003. A
U.S. citizen, she relocated to London in 1999 where she helped
set up Merrill Lynch’s European leveraged finance group, which
helps companies raise funds for deals and investments.  She helped finance the first cellular phone network in
Medellin, Colombia and cable television systems in Europe as
well as technology companies in Eastern Europe after the fall of
the Berlin Wall. This year, Drew helped raise money for London-based  Liberty Global Plc’s (LBTYA)  purchase of Virgin Media Inc., the
U.K. pay-TV operator in a $24 billion transaction.  Even though the number of women in senior positions hasn’t
changed much in the past decade, she said, behind the numbers
attitudes in U.K. have morphed even among women. Drew said that
when she first arrived in the U.K., women were hesitant to
attend networking meetings.  ‘Really Shocked’  “I held the first meeting, and no one showed up,” Drew
said. “I was really shocked. At that time, there was a big
reluctance to be part of something that was female centric as
they feared it would hurt their reputation or standing with
their male peers.”  Drew said she has focused her attention on schools and
universities where she sought to persuade careers advisers a
banking job would be just as suitable for women as other
professions, in spite of the industry’s demands for long hours.  “There is a lead time to getting people through to become
senior bankers,” said Chris Roebuck, visiting professor at Cass
Business School in London, likening the situation to the
approximate six years needed to become a senior doctor in the
U.K.’s National Health Service. “You cannot suddenly produce
senior female investment bankers from nowhere.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  