-- Crist Adopts Obama Populism Readying Florida Governor Run
-- B y   T o l u s e   O l o r u n n i p a
-- 2013-10-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/crist-adopts-obama-populism-readying-florida-governor-run.html
Charlie Crist, who fatally damaged
his party stature by hugging President  Barack Obama  in 2009 as
Florida’s Republican governor, is embracing the Democrat’s
populist politics as he weighs a bid to reclaim that job.  A Republican who turned independent and then became a
Democrat, Crist, 57, is making plans to run against Governor
Rick Scott, a businessman turned politician, next year. As he
ramps up attacks focused on Scott’s wealth, Crist pitches
himself as a scrappy defender of middle-income families, echoing
Obama’s tactics in beating Republican  Mitt Romney  in 2012.  A race between Crist, washed out of politics by the 2010
Tea Party wave, and Scott, a Republican who rode into office
atop it, may reverberate around the nation. Florida is the
largest presidential swing state carried by Obama last year, and
Democrats are hoping to revive his populist campaign message to
unseat Republican governors from  Michigan  to  Maine .  “I don’t care about his bank accounts,” Crist said by e-mail in a reference to the $100 million the Republican’s
campaign plans to spend on a 2014 re-election bid. “I care
about the bank accounts of regular working Floridians.’  Scott, who recently listed his net worth at $83.8 million,
is a top target of the  Democratic Governors Association , said
Danny Kanner, a spokesman in  Washington . He said Crist may help
show whether the strategy is effective heading into 2014.  Growth Focus  “Our message is one of growing the economy from the middle
out and strengthening the middle-class,” said Kanner, who
worked on Crist’s failed U.S. Senate campaign in 2010, his last
year as governor. Kanner said his association plans to brand
Republican governors next year as champions of the wealthy.  “Charlie Crist would be a strong candidate to do that,”
Kanner said. Still, the converted Democrat hasn’t formally
announced a run against Scott, so he can’t raise money for it.  The outcome of a duel between the two may affect the 2016
White House race. Then-Governor Crist’s support for Republican
U.S. Senator John McCain in 2008 helped McCain wrap up his
presidential nomination.  Today, Crist is behaving like a political candidate. Since
campaigning for Obama last year, he has traveled the state to
meet with Democratic groups, publicly criticized Scott’s
administration and headlined party fundraisers.  Democratic Support  Democrats, whose leaders once attacked Crist as an empty-chair politician, appear ready to welcome his candidacy. A
potential party opponent, Alex Sink, a former  Florida  chief
financial officer who lost the governor’s race to Scott in 2010,
has said she won’t run in 2014.  Crist’s former allies are also ready for him. The Florida
Republican Party has sent out hundreds of e-mails since last
year, highlighting his vacillations on policy and the state’s
economic decline during his single term. They’ve also set up a
website focused on the  economy  under Scott compared with Crist.  Scott, a former health-care executive, has implied that
Crist is to blame for Florida’s economic hardships during and
after the 18-month recession than ended in June 2009.  “We lost 832,000 jobs in the four years before I became
governor,” Scott, 60, said at a political summit in Orlando
this month, an often-repeated line he uses. “Unemployment went
from 3.5 to 11.1 percent. It never should have happened. We
never should have had that downturn.”  Defining Opponent  Scott recently told the National Review magazine that he
may spend $25 million early next year to “define” his presumed
opponent. The governor and his wife, Ann, used more than $75
million of their own money on the 2010 race, winning by just
61,000 votes -- the closest margin in Florida history.  Crist is looking to cash-in on his name recognition among
potential donors and voters, and has emphasized his record on
consumer issues. As governor, he antagonized home insurers by
freezing rates and backed property-tax caps as the housing
market boomed. He listed his net worth at almost $441,500 just
before leaving office in January 2011.  “Every campaign I’ve ever run was focused on what matters
to the people,” Crist said by e-mail.  Bracing for the challenge, Republicans are branding Crist’s
populism as opportunistic, saying he has run for five statewide
offices since 1998. He was previously attorney general.  “Here’s a guy who’s a crass opportunist that will do and
say anything to get and hold on to power,” said Lenny Curry,
chairman of the Florida Republican Party.  Position Reversals  Curry said Crist has reversed positions from just three
years ago, when he was trying to gain ground as an independent
against Marco Rubio, who won the 2010 Senate race with Tea Party
support. Crist backed a ban on same-sex marriage, criticized
Obama’s health-care law and opposed letting tax cuts for top
earners expire -- positions he has recanted since becoming a
Democrat nine months ago.  Rubio attacked Crist in 2010 for taking federal economic-stimulus money and ran advertisements showing Crist hugging
Obama after the 2009 inauguration. Trailing Rubio in polls,
Crist left the Republicans, ran as an independent and lost. He
quit politics to join the  Morgan & Morgan  law firm in Tampa.  Now as a Democrat, he’s embracing his Obama hug, telling a
crowd in Louisiana last month that it signaled “the beginning
of the end for Charlie Crist as a Republican.”  Even as a Republican governor, Crist often won support from
Democrats while angering some in his party. He vetoed a bill to
require ultrasound examinations for women seeking abortions,
opposed linking teacher salaries to student performance and made
it easier for ex-felons to regain voting rights. Scott signed
the ultrasound and merit-pay bills in 2011, shortly after
reversing Crist’s voting-rights initiative.  Early Lead  In a June poll from Hamden, Connecticut-based Quinnipiac
University, half of Florida voters said Scott didn’t deserve re-election. It said Crist led Scott by 10 percentage points.  By contrast, former state Senator Nan Rich, who is seeking
the Democratic nomination, hardly registered in Quinnipiac’s
poll. It showed 84 percent didn’t know her well enough to form
an opinion.  “I welcome Charlie to the party, but the question is
whether or not he has the credentials to represent Democrats’
values as governor,” Rich said. She said he has called himself
a “pro-life, pro-guns and a Ronald Reagan Republican.”  Scott, speaking to Tea Party supporters in Orlando
recently, slammed Crist for increasing state debt and “hugging
Obama’s stimulus spending.” Melissa Sellers, a Scott
spokeswoman, didn’t respond to requests for comment.  The former governor has worked to shore up his support
among Democrats, and even lawmakers from the party who once
attacked him now tout his record and urge him to run.  Dan Gelber, a former legislator and Democratic leader from
2006 to 2010, said Crist has a strong record on issues important
to middle-income families. He said Crist is one of a few people
who has a chance against Scott’s well-funded campaign.  “Charlie Crist is well known to Florida and having the
well-known nominee is not going to hurt us,” he said. “People
want a governor who is thinking about them, who has their
back.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toluse Olorunnipa in Tallahassee, Florida at 
 tolorunnipa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  