-- Danske CEO Slams Five Years of Bad Returns in New Strategy
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-10-03T07:56:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/danske-ceo-slams-last-five-years-of-bad-returns-in-new-strategy.html
Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) ’s new Chief Executive
Officer Thomas Borgen criticized what he called unsatisfactory
investor returns over the past half-decade and vowed to improve
the bank’s performance by winning back customers.  “What we have delivered to our shareholders has not been
satisfactory for the last five years, and that we need to
improve,” Borgen said in a telephone interview yesterday from
Copenhagen. “To improve that, we really need particularly in
Denmark to get back the  customer focus , to really get that going
and working.”  Danske shares have gained just 3.8 percent in the past five
years, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. That compares
with a 61 percent increase in the Nasdaq OMX Copenhagen 20
index. Danske hasn’t paid its shareholders a  dividend  in the
period and it delivered a return on equity in the first six
months of 2013 that was about half a 12 percent target the bank
has said it’s working toward.  Danske’s share performance doesn’t reflect what it can do,
according to Borgen. The 49-year-old has worked at Danske since
1997, most recently as head of the lender’s corporate and
institutional banking.  “Purely objectively, we have very good digital
solutions,” he said. “We have very good products and fair
pricing, but we have been hammered by not being able to
communicate in a good enough manner, and that is something that
we need to change.”  Eivind Kolding  Borgen has headed the bank since last month after Danske
unexpectedly fired Eivind Kolding saying he lacked the banking
expertise to continue as CEO. Since being dragged through
housing bubbles in Ireland and  Denmark , Danske has met rising
capital requirements and record-low  interest rates  with job cuts
and branch closures. Borgen said it was too early to say whether
he’d need to fire more employees.  “One of my duties together with the management team is to
always look on the cost side and be an efficient bank, so we can
deliver good solutions to our clients,” Borgen said. “When I
have some more picture, I will of course look through, are we
efficient enough and if not we will have to take consequences.”  Borgen declined today to respond to questions on
speculation in Swedish media that Danske is looking into merging
with Stockholm-based SEB AB. In an interview with Danish
broadcaster TV2, Borgen said he doesn’t comment on “rumors.”
 Dagens Industri  reported today the two banks were exploring the
option of merging, without providing any details of how it
obtained the information.  SEB Rumors  “These rumors circulate on a regular basis and we
attribute no value to them,” Alm. Brand Markets said in a note
to clients today. “We maintain our buy recommendation on Danske
Bank, which continues to be fundamentally undervalued in
relation to its Nordic competitors.”  Under Kolding, who led  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) ’s container
shipping unit before becoming CEO at Danske just 19 months
before he was ousted, Danske introduced a pricing model to
reward customers with the most business there. The plan, and an
advertising campaign to promote it, was slammed by local media
and Danske in June fired its head of communications, Eva Hald.  Economic Risk  Danske’s expansion into Ireland in 2005, under then CEO
 Peter Straarup , has also hurt its image. The lender, Denmark’s
largest with assets equivalent to 182 percent of  gross domestic
product , was criticized in a report last month by a government-appointed committee investigating the causes of Denmark’s
financial crisis. The lender’s international ambitions before
the crisis put the entire economy at risk, the committee found.  Borgen isn’t planning to fix Danske’s reputation in Denmark
through more advertising campaigns, he said.  “I’m not going to buy any image campaigns,” he said. “It
went wrong. It’s about communicating with clients in a direct
dialog and that’s what we have to do.”  Danske has lost about 100,000 customers in 12 months,
newspaper Jyllands-Posten reported Sept. 17, citing a poll
conducted by Voxmeter. About 38 percent of the population said
they would never use Danske as their bank, up from 23.1 percent
a year earlier, according to the survey.  More Volume  The bank said Aug. 1 it had lost 40,000 customers since
introducing its new pricing program in January. The shift didn’t
affect Danske’s market share because “we were compensated by
the existing customers bringing in more volume,” Kolding said
at the time.  Borgen said part of the reason the  bank  has alienated
customers may be that it closed branches too fast. He plans to
start a 360 degree service check of the bank to ensure it
doesn’t misread client needs in future, he said.  “It’s the sum of many, many things,” Borgen said. “It is
not one major thing that we can do. We have historically been
criticized for talking not with clients but more to clients and
that’s basically what we’re working on. It’s the sum of many
things.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at
   fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  