-- De Blasio Mayoral Run Shaped by Child-Abuse Case That Shook NYC
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2013-10-02T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/de-blasio-mayoral-run-shaped-by-child-abuse-case-that-shook-nyc.html
Bill de Blasio was a New York City
councilman responsible for overseeing child welfare when the
story of a 7-year-old girl beaten, starved and tortured by her
parents in  Brooklyn  exploded in the headlines.  The 2006 killing of Nixzmary Brown, whose body was found
inside what a judge described as a “house of horrors,”
transfixed the city as details emerged of missed danger signs.
The emaciated girl missed 46 school days, and her stepfather
denied an investigator access to her house. A caseworker
canceled a visit the night she died, only to appear the next
morning as police carted her body to the morgue.  “As a tale of what government was not doing well, it was
pretty sharp,” de Blasio, 52, the front-runner in the race for
mayor, said in a telephone interview. “The sense that she could
have been saved, not once but many times, left everyone with a
pained and empty feeling, and I certainly felt it.”  For de Blasio, a Democrat who faces Republican Joseph Lhota, 58, in the Nov. 5 election, the case underscored his
contempt for the harm government can inflict when it fails to
act and his belief that aggressive intervention can improve the
lives of the most vulnerable. As head of the council’s General
Welfare Committee, he investigated the handling of the Nixzmary
Brown case and others where the city failed to protect children.  “I saw my role as being a critical voice, a voice
demanding more change rather than less,” de Blasio said.  No Arguing  Interviews with a dozen colleagues, aides, city officials
and child advocates, along with a review of the transcript of
the council hearing de Blasio led three weeks after Nixzmary’s
death, shows the candidate as collaborative and not
confrontational. The portrait provides insight to the governing
style of the man most likely to become chief executive of a city
of 8.3 million with a $70 billion budget and 300,000 employees.  “I can’t remember Bill ever arguing with anyone,” said
Peter Vallone Jr., a Queens Democrat who served on the city
council with de Blasio from 2002 to 2009. “He wasn’t the kind
of councilman to walk into a committee hearing, throw a bomb at
a city official to get a quote in the paper or make the six
o’clock news, and then leave the room.”  Even as de Blasio praised Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  for
committing more money to reduce worker caseloads and improve
 risk assessment  and coordination among officials, police and the
public, he continued calling for improvements at the agency
responsible for child welfare, the Administration for Children’s
Services. In the 15 months after Nixzmary Brown died, he held
four hearings probing the city’s effectiveness in preventing
child abuse and neglect.  Stayed Focused  “He stayed on the issues long after the media had turned
away,” said John Mattingly, the former commissioner of the ACS,
who took the brunt of criticism. “In the end, he wound up
helping us.”  De Blasio also wasn’t the type to hold a grudge, said Alan J. Gerson and  Michael McMahon , two former councilmen who served
with de Blasio. In 2006, they both backed Christine Quinn for
speaker over him in a contentious intraparty battle.  “That did not in any way affect or undercut our working
relationship,” Gerson said.  Following her victory, Quinn reappointed de Blasio as
chairman of the welfare committee. One of his first acts that
year was to convene a hearing on the Nixzmary Brown case, with
Mattingly as his main witness.  Fair Questions  “While other council members used the hearing to express
anger and ask me questions like, ‘How could you allow this to
happen?’ de Blasio asked fair questions: ‘What happened? Why?
And what are you going to do to stop it from happening again?”
said Mattingly, who since 2011 has been a senior policy analyst
at the Baltimore-based  Annie E. Casey Foundation , a nonprofit
that supports programs for at-risk children.  The two first met shortly after Mattingly became
commissioner in 2004, when the councilman visited his office and
recounted a fatal child-abuse case inside a homeless shelter. De
Blasio’s information led Mattingly to create a child-welfare
unit inside the city’s Department of Homeless Services to
identify at-risk children in shelters, he said.  “He knows when to pick a fight and when to work
together,” said council member Jessica Lappin, who served on de
Blasio’s committee.  In 2009, after eight years on the council, de Blasio was
elected public advocate, a watchdog post created in 1993. His
interest in child welfare continued and led to his participation
in a citywide response to yet another crisis in 2010, when a 4-year-old girl died of neglect -- even after she had been seen by
doctors at a city hospital.  Worst Landlords  With a staff of more than 30 and a budget of $2.25 million,
de Blasio also developed a list of the city’s “worst
landlords;” criticized corporate political spending following
the U.S.  Supreme Court ’s Citizens United decision that permitted
unlimited campaign contributions; and fought against the
proposed elimination of free subway and bus transportation for
public-school students.  “The public advocate has to be a strong check and balance
on the mayor, by definition, has to be a watchdog on the
mayoralty and the city government, and should be activist in
pushing government to serve people more effectively, and willing
to be contentious when the government isn’t doing that,” de
Blasio said last week on WNYC radio.  Some critics say de Blasio didn’t do enough of that. Mark Green and  Norman Siegel , who both lost to de Blasio for the
post, say his comparatively small budget and lack of power is no
excuse for not doing more.  Stepping Stone  “What’s most troubling is his inability to maximize the
potential of the office and with some people calling for it to
be eliminated, he contributed to the office having no identity
other than being a stepping stone for higher office,” said
Siegel, who nonetheless said he supports de Blasio for mayor.  Child advocates disagree, pointing to de Blasio’s actions
after Marchella Pierce, 4, died in 2010 weighing only 18 pounds
(8.2 kilograms). ACS caseworkers and a private company under
contract with the city had failed to check on her care in the
hands of a drug-addicted mother.  They say De Blasio’s participation in an investigative  task
force  of doctors, social workers, child advocates and city
officials was crucial in persuading the panel to recommend
annual funding for abuse and neglect prevention, which provided
more predictable and consistent financing for such programs.  ‘Wouldn’t Budge’  “He pushed and wouldn’t budge,” said Jennifer March,
executive director of the Citizens’ Committee for Children, who
participated in the task force. “When the mayor agreed, it was
a major victory.”  Bloomberg, 71, the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP, is legally barred from seeking a
fourth term and will complete 12 years in office Dec. 31. Linda Gibbs, Bloomberg’s deputy mayor for health and human services,
declined requests to be interviewed about de Blasio.  Nixzmary’s mother, Nixzaliz Santiago, is serving as long as
36 years in prison for manslaughter, assault and other charges.
Her stepfather, Cesar Rodriguez, who struck the fatal blow, was
sentenced to as much as 29 years.  That and other child-abuse cases show government services
can be improved without heavy spending, de Blasio said.  “What we learned was that a lot of the most important
solutions are not about money: They’re about getting the public
involved; they’re about getting the agencies to understand their
responsibilities,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in  New York  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;
Esmé E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  