-- Detroit Judge Lets Union Seek 13th Pension Check Ruling
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-10-02T19:38:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/detroit-judge-lets-union-seek-13th-pension-check-ruling.html
A Detroit municipal-workers’ union
can ask a Michigan employment judge to put in writing his
opinion that the city broke  labor laws  when it barred retirees
from getting an extra pension check, a bankruptcy judge said.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes today agreed with the
union that an administrative law judge should be free to issue
an opinion about the so-called 13th-check policy, which the city
said cost it $1.92 billion from 1985 to 2008.  Doyle O’Connor, the administrative law judge for the state
employment commission, is retiring at the end of the week and
the union wants him to put on paper an oral finding he made
earlier this year.  Rhodes made it clear that he wasn’t allowing the union, the
Michigan Employment Relations Commission or O’Connor to consider
renewing the 13th-check policy.  Limiting what O’Connor and the union can do related to the
policy will prevent “any prejudice to the city,” Rhodes said
today during a hearing in  Detroit .  “We want him to have the freedom to rule, including, if he
thinks it appropriate, on any dollar amount of damages,” Sharon Levine, an attorney for the American Federation of State County
and Municipal Employees, said in an interview after the hearing.  NAACP Request  Also at the hearing, the NAACP, the civil rights group,
asked Rhodes for permission to pursue a voting rights lawsuit
that challenges the Michigan law that allowed Detroit Emergency
Manager Kevyn Orr to put the city into bankruptcy in July.  Before the bankruptcy, state NAACP officials filed a
lawsuit that claims the emergency manager law violates the
voting rights of black people in Detroit and several other local
governments by stripping their elected officials of power.  Just over half of all black people in  Michigan  live in a
community controlled by an emergency manager, Melvin Hollowell,
an NAACP attorney, said in court. Allowing the lawsuit to
proceed wouldn’t interfere with Detroit’s bankruptcy because the
group would agree that any ruling that invalidates the emergency
manager law wouldn’t undo any actions Orr has taken up to now,
Hollowell told Rhodes.  City and state lawyers opposed the motion, claiming it may
be impossible for the bankruptcy to continue should a court
decide the law is unconstitutional. Rhodes said he would issue a
written ruling on the request.  City Pensions  On the 13th check dispute, both sides said that any issue
related to the pensions of about 20,000 retired city workers
will be a key focus of the bankruptcy.  For decades the city’s pension board for general employees
gave retirees an extra check and current workers a bonus to
their optional annuity fund whenever the pension fund earned
more from investments than expected.  From July 1985 to June 2008, a pension board that is
independent from the city council paid out what it considered
excess money 18 times, or about $951 million in total. That
included $121.1 million handed out in the 2008 fiscal year, the
last for which information was available. The board made the
payments if it earned more on investments than expected.  The practice went on so long that it became an expected
benefit that couldn’t be canceled without negotiating with the
union first, O’Connor said at a February hearing on the issue.  Extra Earnings  Every year the pension fund earned more than 7.9 percent on
its investments, it split the extra earnings three ways, giving
money to current employees who had annuity accounts, to the city
to reduce its annual pension contribution and to retirees in the
form of a 13th check.  Since 1985, employees collected at least $756.2 million,
the city $445.3 million and retirees $195 million, according to
court records.  Since the city canceled the policy in 2011, the pension
fund for general employees made 18 percent in one year and 20
percent in another, union attorney Richard G. Mack said in
court. O’Connor may use those numbers to determine how much the
city may owe in damages for canceling the policy without first
negotiating with the union, Levine said in court.  The bankruptcy case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in  bankruptcy court  in Detroit at   schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  