-- Di Canio Wants Another Job in England, Star Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-10-02T09:23:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/di-canio-wants-another-job-in-england-star-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  ‘Learnt a Lot’  Paolo Di Canio said he wants to manage another English club
as soon as he can even after being fired by Sunderland following
just 175 days in charge, the  Daily Star reported .  “I remain confident in my ability,” the Star cited Di
Canio as saying. “When things like this happen, it is important
to take something positive from it. I have learnt a lot from my
brief time at Sunderland.”  Pardew’s Pessimism  Alan Pardew  believes it is “inevitable” that he will be
fired as Newcastle United manager and replaced by director of
football Joe Kinnear, the  Daily Mirror reported , citing a
supporters’ spokesman.  “Pardew knows he’s on borrowed time and if results
continue to go pear-shaped, there’s only one man who’s going to
get his job,” the Mirror cited Steve Wraith, spokesman for the
NUFC Fans United group, as saying.  Carroll’s Recovery  West Ham United striker Andy Carroll was given the go-ahead
to intensify his rehabilitation from a heel injury and will meet
a specialist again in three weeks to put a time frame on his
return, the  Daily Mail reported .  Carroll, 24, hasn’t played this campaign after the plantar
fascia, a tissue connecting the bottom of the foot with his
heel, became loose in the pre-season, the newspaper added.  Ronaldo Near Miss  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  said  Cristiano Ronaldo  was so
close to joining the Gunners as a teenager that the club
allocated him the No. 9 jersey before he joined  Manchester
United  instead, the  Daily Star reported .  “He was very close to coming here,” the Star cited Wenger
as saying. “What happened was that Carlos Queiroz went to
Manchester United and they snapped him away from us because he
knew him from Sporting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  