-- Dollar Seen as Shutdown Loser as Growth Hit Spurs QE
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-10-02T12:54:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/dollar-seen-as-shutdown-loser-as-growth-hit-spurs-qe-currencies.html
The first U.S. government shutdown in
17 years is stoking speculation that the longer it lasts, the
more likely the Federal Reserve will delay reducing its monetary
stimulus program, boosting emerging-market currencies at the
expense of the dollar.  At least $300 million a day in economic output will
initially be lost because lawmakers can’t agree on a budget,
according to  IHS Inc. (IHS)  A two-week shutdown starting Oct. 1 could
cut growth by 0.3 percentage point to a 2.3 percent rate,
according to St. Louis-based Macroeconomic Advisers LLC.  The Fed’s stimulus programs have weighed on the greenback,
with the Bloomberg Dollar Index falling 0.9 percent since Sept.
17. That was the day before the central bank decided to keep
printing cash to buy $85 billion of bonds a month because it has
yet to see signs of sustained economic growth. The  Bloomberg
JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index (ADXY)  is up 0.3 percent in that period.  “If the fiscal issue drags on, the Fed is likely to be
less willing to reduce stimulus in the economy. The dollar will
suffer if that is the case,” James Kwok, the London-based head
of currency management at Amundi, which oversees an equivalent
of $1 trillion, said yesterday in a phone interview. Amundi has
reduced bets the dollar will rise, according to Kwok.  Market Confidence  Congressional leaders have scheduled no further
negotiations on spending legislation, raising concerns among
some lawmakers that the shutdown could bleed into the more
consequential fight over how to raise the $16.7 trillion U.S.
 debt ceiling  to avoid a first-ever default after Oct. 17.  Financial markets are overconfident the fiscal stalemate in
 Washington  will be resolved in time to avoid major economic
damage, White House economic adviser Gene Sperling said.  “There is a false sense of complacency among some in the
market that somehow things will be always solved at midnight,”
Sperling, the director of President  Barack Obama ’s National
Economic Council, told Bloomberg News reporters and editors
yesterday in Washington.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the
performance of the greenback against a basket of 10 leading
global currencies, fell as much as 0.4 percent yesterday on the
first day of the shutdown, its biggest intraday drop in two
weeks. The gauge has dropped 4.2 percent from this year’s high
of 1,054.48 based on closing prices to 1,010.38 as of 8:42 a.m.
in New York.  Buying Opportunity  Currencies whose fortunes are linked to the commodities
market such as the Australian dollar appreciated yesterday, as
did the Colombian peso, Hungarian forint and Russian ruble. The
Bloomberg JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index climbed 0.2 percent for its
biggest gain since Sept. 23.  “Markets anticipating that tapering might be delayed might
use that as an opportunity to buy higher-yielding assets at the
expense of the dollar,” Brian Daingerfield, a  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit, said yesterday in a phone
interview. “A government shutdown increases the risk that
fiscal problems will prevent any job recovery from being
substantial and sustainable.”  The premium on three-month options granting the right to
buy the dollar against  Brazil ’s real, compared with those
allowing for sales, fell to 2.87 percentage points, the lowest
since Aug. 14, according to 25-delta risk reversal rates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Investor Flows  Delayed Fed tapering has benefited inflows to emerging
markets. BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest money manager,
received $4.45 billion of deposits to its iShares MSCI  Emerging
Markets ETF (EEM)  in September, the most since December, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Meanwhile, JPMorgan’s global
volatility gauge remains lower than its 2013 average.  “As they put tapering further and further out that reduces
the volatility in  emerging markets ,” Axel Merk, who oversees
about $450 million of currencies as head of Palo Alto,
California-based Merk Investments LLC, said yesterday in a phone
interview. “These more volatile and less liquid markets are
going to do just fine.”  The JPMorgan Global FX Volatility Index was at 9.15, down
from 10.41 Sept. 3. Smaller expected price swings tend to boost
the appeal of higher-yielding, riskier assets such as emerging-market currencies.  Shutdown History  The U.S. government was partially closed yesterday with
Congress deadlocked over whether to tie any changes to the 2010
health-care bill to an extension of government funding. Even if
the budget fight is resolved, lawmakers would immediately move
to the next fiscal dispute over raising the debt ceiling.  There have been 17 government shutdowns since 1976, with
five of them occurring within three months of each other.  General risk aversion that typically boosts the dollar will
probably be countered by the U.S. being the source of the latest
financial instability, according to Ken Dickson, an Edinburgh-based director for foreign exchange at Standard Life Investments
Ltd., which oversees about $289 billion.  “When markets are risk averse, the dollar and Treasuries
have tended to be favored as the dollar has been the safe haven
of choice,” he said yesterday in a phone interview. “Because
there is that mixture of risk aversion causing dollar assets to
be slightly more attractive and the U.S.-centric nature of this
problem, I would expect the impact to be pretty minimal.”  Taper Speculation  The greenback may drop against the pound and the yen, while
any losses against the euro would be limited amid political
turmoil in  Italy  and as investors wait for  Germany ’s coalition
talks to be completed, Dickson said, adding that the U.S.
currency may also gain versus emerging-market peers.  The Fed will take the first step in reducing its monthly
bond purchases in December, according to 59 percent of 41
economists in a Sept. 18-19 survey conducted by Bloomberg.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke reset the central bank’s
timeline for asset purchases on Sept. 18 and refrained from any
tapering of the bond-buying program, surprising economists who,
in a Sept. 6 survey, said the central bank would reduce the size
of the program to $75 billion.  There’s a “relative balance-sheet story working against
the dollar,” Robert Sinche, the global strategist at Pierpont
Securities Holdings LLC in Stamford,  Connecticut , said yesterday
in a phone interview. “You look around and have to say, why
would I take incremental positions in the dollar?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  