-- Dollar Falls to 8-Month Low Versus Euro on Shutdown; Krona Rises
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-10-03T11:34:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/dollar-near-eight-month-low-versus-euro-on-shutdown-impasse.html
The dollar slid to the weakest level
in eight months versus the euro as the U.S. government’s partial
shutdown added to concern that growth will slow and prompt the
 Federal Reserve  to delay tapering monetary stimulus.  The greenback fell for a second day against the euro as
Congressional leaders and President  Barack Obama  failed to make
any headway on the U.S. fiscal impasse. Lawmakers also need to
agree on raising the debt limit to avoid a default after Oct.
17. The euro rose after a report showed  services output  in the
region expanded more than initially estimated last month. The
krona climbed following a report that showed Sweden’s services
industries expanded for a third month in September.  “This is more or less the perfect environment for euro-dollar to overshoot,” said Kasper Kirkegaard, a senior
strategist at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Copenhagen. “One of the key
drivers is, of course, the shutdown, but more importantly the
debt-ceiling deadline is approaching.”  The dollar declined 0.2 percent to $1.3604 per euro at 7:30
a.m.  New York  time after reaching $1.3623, the weakest since
Feb. 4. The greenback advanced 0.3 percent to 97.69 yen after
dropping 0.9 percent over the previous two days.  Japan ’s
currency retreated 0.5 percent to 132.90 per euro.  The dollar may weaken to about $1.40 per euro, before
recovering to trade at a stronger rate than current levels in
the first quarter as the Fed begins its tapering and U.S. money-market rates rise, Kirkegaard said. Economists’ predictions
compiled by Bloomberg show the greenback will trade at $1.31 by
year-end and strengthen to $1.28 by the end of June.  No Breakthrough  Benchmark 10-year Treasury yields were at 2.64 percent,
after reaching a  seven-week low  of 2.59 percent on Sept. 30.  Ohio Republican  John Boehner  and other congressional leaders
met U.S. President Barack Obama for more than an hour yesterday
in Washington. Obama has said he won’t negotiate with
Republicans on the budget until they reopen the government and
raise the borrowing limit without conditions.  House Republican leaders plan to bring up a measure to
raise the debt limit as soon as next week as part of a new
attempt to force Obama to negotiate on the budget, according to
three people with knowledge of the strategy.  “The U.S. dollar continues to be the loser from the
Washington standoff,” National Australia Bank Ltd. analysts led
by  Peter Jolly  wrote in an e-mailed note to clients. In addition
to concern that the shutdown will be a drag on growth, “fears
are also mounting that the ongoing standoff will jeopardize any
resolution to the separate debt-ceiling issue.”  Fed Deliberations  The Bloomberg  U.S. Dollar  Index, which tracks the
performance of the greenback against 10 leading global
currencies, was little changed at 1,008.78 after falling to
1,007.22, the lowest level since Sept. 19.  Initial claims for  unemployment benefits  rose last week and
non-manufacturing output growth slowed in September, according
to separate surveys of economists by  Bloomberg News . The U.S.
Labor Department won’t release its monthly payrolls report
tomorrow if the government remains closed, according to the
 Bureau of Labor Statistics .  The dollar has fallen 0.6 percent in the past week,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-nation currencies. The yen strengthened 0.9 percent
and the euro gained 0.4 percent.  Yen Weakens  The yen declined as  figures released  by the Ministry of
Finance showed Japanese  investors (JSIABOND)  bought 672.1 billion yen of
overseas bonds and notes in the week ended Sept. 27.  Investors are seeking higher yields as the  Bank of Japan 
drives down  interest rates  with more than 7 trillion yen of
monthly bond purchases to defeat deflation.  The krona rose as Stockholm-based  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  published an
index based on responses from purchasing managers in the
services industry that was at 53.3 last month from 53.7 in
August. A reading above 50 signals expansion and the measure has
been above that level since July.  The Swedish currency climbed 0.6 percent to 6.3449 against
the dollar and was 0.4 percent stronger at 8.6298 per euro.  South Africa’s rand weakened against the dollar on concern
the partial U.S. government shutdown will hamper global growth
and as a strike in South Africa’s car industry deters
investment.  South African plants belonging to carmakers including
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, Toyota Motor Corp., and  Volkswagen
AG (VOW)  were shut for three weeks in August and September after
workers went on strike to demand higher pay.  The rand depreciated 0.6 percent to 10.0734 per dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  