-- Draghi’s Introductory Remarks at ECB Press Conference: Text
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2013-10-02T13:06:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/draghi-s-introductory-remarks-at-ecb-press-conference-text.html
The following is a reformatted
version of the introductory remarks of European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  at a press conference in Paris today.  ECB policy makers kept the benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at a record low of 0.5 percent for a fifth month. The
decision was predicted by all 52 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Ladies and gentlemen, the Vice-President and I are very pleased
to welcome you to our press conference. I would like to thank
Governor Noyer for his kind hospitality and express our special
gratitude to his staff for the excellent organisation of today’s
meeting of the Governing Council. We will now report on the
outcome of today’s meeting, which was also attended by the
Commission Vice-President, Mr Rehn.  Based on our regular economic and monetary analyses, we decided
to keep the key ECB interest rates unchanged. Incoming
information and analysis have further underpinned our previous
assessment. Underlying price pressures in the euro area are
expected to remain subdued over the medium term. In keeping with
this picture, monetary and, in particular, credit dynamics
remain subdued. Inflation expectations for the euro area
continue to be firmly anchored in line with our aim of
maintaining inflation rates below, but close to, 2% over the
medium term. At the same time, real GDP growth in the second
quarter was positive, after six quarters of negative output
growth, and confidence indicators up to September confirm the
expected gradual improvement in economic activity from low
levels. Our monetary policy stance continues to be geared
towards maintaining the degree of monetary accommodation
warranted by the outlook for  price stability  and promoting
stable money market conditions. It thereby provides support to a
gradual recovery in economic activity. Looking ahead, our
monetary policy stance will remain accommodative for as long as
necessary, in line with the forward guidance provided in July.
The Governing Council confirms that it expects the key ECB
interest rates to remain at present or lower levels for an
extended period of time. This expectation continues to be based
on an unchanged overall subdued outlook for inflation extending
into the medium term, given the broad-based weakness in the
economy and subdued monetary dynamics. In the period ahead, we
will monitor all incoming information on economic and monetary
developments and assess any impact on the medium-term outlook
for price stability. With regard to money market conditions, we
will remain particularly attentive to developments which may
have implications for the stance of monetary policy and are
ready to consider all available instruments.  Let me now explain our assessment in greater detail, starting
with the economic analysis. Following six quarters of negative
output growth, euro area real GDP rose, quarter on quarter, by
0.3% in the second quarter of 2013, also supported by temporary
factors related to unusually adverse weather conditions in some
euro area countries earlier this year. Developments in
industrial production data point to somewhat weaker growth at
the beginning of the third quarter, while survey-based
confidence indicators up to September have improved further from
low levels, overall confirming our previous expectations of a
gradual recovery in economic activity. Looking ahead, output is
expected to recover at a slow pace, in particular owing to a
gradual improvement in domestic demand supported by the
accommodative monetary policy stance. Euro area economic
activity should, in addition, benefit from a gradual
strengthening of external demand for exports. Furthermore, the
overall improvements in financial markets seen since last summer
appear to be gradually working their way through to the real
economy, as should the progress made in fiscal consolidation. In
addition, real incomes have benefited recently from generally
lower inflation. This being said, unemployment in the euro area
remains high, and the necessary balance sheet adjustments in the
public and private sectors will continue to weigh on economic
activity.  The risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro area
continue to be on the downside. Developments in global money and
financial market conditions and related uncertainties may have
the potential to negatively affect economic conditions. Other
downside risks include higher commodity prices in the context of
renewed geopolitical tensions, weaker than expected global
demand and slow or insufficient implementation of structural
reforms in euro area countries.  According to Eurostat’s flash estimate, and broadly in line with
expectations, euro area annual HICP inflation decreased in
September 2013 to 1.1%, from 1.3% in August. On the basis of
current futures prices for energy, annual inflation rates are
expected to remain at such low levels in the coming months.
Taking the appropriate medium-term perspective, underlying price
pressures are expected to remain subdued, reflecting the broad-based weakness in aggregate demand and the modest pace of the
recovery. Medium to long-term inflation expectations continue to
be firmly anchored in line with price stability.  The risks to the outlook for price developments are expected to
be still broadly balanced over the medium term, with upside
risks relating in particular to higher commodity prices as well
as stronger than expected increases in administered prices and
indirect taxes, and downside risks stemming from weaker than
expected economic activity.  Turning to the monetary analysis, data for August indicate that
the underlying growth of broad money (M3) and, in particular,
credit remained subdued. Annual growth in M3 continued to be
broadly stable at 2.3% in August, compared with 2.2% in July.
Annual growth in M1 remained strong but decreased to 6.8% in
August, from 7.1% in July. Net capital inflows into the euro
area continued to be the main factor supporting annual M3
growth, while the annual rate of change of loans to the private
sector remained weak. The annual growth rate of loans to
households (adjusted for loan sales and securitisation) stood at
0.4% in August, broadly unchanged since the turn of the year.
The annual rate of change of loans to non-financial corporations
(adjusted for loan sales and securitisation) was -2.9% in
August, compared with -2.8% in July. Weak loan dynamics for non-financial corporations continue to reflect primarily their
lagged relationship with the business cycle, credit risk and the
ongoing adjustment of financial and non-financial sector balance
sheets.  Since the summer of 2012 substantial progress has been made in
improving the funding situation of banks and, in particular, in
strengthening the domestic deposit base in a number of stressed
countries. In order to ensure an adequate transmission of
monetary policy to the financing conditions in euro area
countries, it is essential that the fragmentation of euro area
credit markets declines further and that the resilience of banks
is strengthened where needed. Further decisive steps to
establish a banking union will help to accomplish this
objective.  To sum up, the economic analysis indicates that price
developments should remain in line with price stability over the
medium term. A cross-check with the signals from the monetary
analysis confirms this picture.  As regards fiscal policies, euro area countries should not
unravel their efforts to reduce deficits and put high government
debt ratios on a downward path. The draft budgetary plans that
countries will now deliver for the first time under the “two-pack” regulations need to provide for sufficiently far-reaching
measures to achieve the fiscal targets for 2014. Governments
must also decisively strengthen efforts to implement the needed
structural reforms in product and labour markets. These reforms
are required not only to help countries to regain
competitiveness and to rebalance within the euro area, but also
to create more flexible and dynamic economies that generate
sustainable economic growth and employment.  We are now at your disposal for questions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  