-- Draghi Says ECB to Act If Needed to Control Money Markets
-- B y   P a u l   G o r d o n
-- 2013-10-02T14:25:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/draghi-says-ecb-ready-to-keep-money-market-in-check-if-needed.html
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said he’s ready to take any necessary measures to keep
money-market rates in check as he tries to steer  Europe ’s banks
through the early stages of an economic recovery.  “We’ll remain particularly attentive to developments which
may have implications to monetary policy and consider all
available instruments,” Draghi said at a press conference in
Paris today, reiterating comments he made last month. “We have
a vast array of instruments to this extent and we exclude no
option in order to address the needs as is most appropriate.”  Draghi spoke after the ECB’s Governing Council left its
 main refinancing rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent for a fifth
month. The decision was predicted by all 52 economists in a
Bloomberg News  survey . Officials held the deposit rate at zero
and the marginal lending rate at 1 percent.  The ECB holds its meetings outside of its home city of
 Frankfurt  twice a year. The October meeting is a day earlier
than normal because of a public holiday in Germany tomorrow.  The central bank is trying to contain volatility in market
rates as investors face risks ranging from a squeeze on  excess
liquidity  to stress tests on banks’ balance sheets. While Draghi
didn’t announce any new liquidity measures today, he repeated
that the ECB is prepared to announce another long-term
refinancing operation for Europe’s financial system if needed.  Market Reaction  The  overnight rate  that banks expect to charge each other
by the ECB’s September 2014 rate meeting, as measured by Eonia
forward contracts, rose as high as 0.23 percent after Draghi’s
comments, from 0.21 percent before the press conference. While
that still down from 0.3 percent on Sept. 5, the date of the
ECB’s last rate decision, it compares with less than 0.1 percent
in May.  The euro climbed, rising as high as $1.3607 from $1.3523 at
the start of the press conference. The yield on  Germany ’s two-year government bond fell 1 basis point to 0.16 percent.  In addition to Draghi refraining from signaling any new
policy measures, the single currency advanced after Italian
Prime Minister Enrico Letta won a confidence vote in parliament,
avoiding the need for another election.  The ECB pumped more than 1 trillion euros ($1.4 trillion)
of three-year loans into the financial system during the
region’s debt crisis and gave banks the option to repay the
emergency cash early. As banks do that amid a recovering
economy,  excess liquidity  in money markets is declining,
threatening to push borrowing costs higher.  Rate Discussion  The ECB president said today that policy makers considered
a cut in their main  interest rates  and decided against it. He
has pledged since July to keep the rates at or below the current
level for an extended period of time.  The health of the euro region’s economy has shown signs of
improving since last month’s ECB meeting.  Economic confidence  as
measured by the European Commission rose for a fifth month and a
gauge of factory output showed a third month of expansion.  Draghi said that lending to households and companies, which
fell by a record in August, may start to rise before the ECB
completes a review of bank balance sheets next year.  “Credit flows are still weak, I would even say very weak,
even though we see a significant improvement in fragmentation on
the funding side,” he said. “We have frankly strong hopes that
credit will recover before the end of the asset quality
review.”  Review Risk  Risks to the recovery include a review of bank balance
sheets to be led by the ECB starting next year before it takes
over as supervisor for euro-area lenders. Stress tests that form
part of the assessment remain a potential source of bank turmoil
as no plan to cover capital shortfalls discovered during that
process has yet been agreed by European Union leaders.  “On the backstops, that’s another thing that quite
astonishes me as the doubts that have been expressed about
whether national backstops will be in place by the time we start
our Single Supervisory Mechanism,” Draghi said. “In fact,
there is an explicit reassurance about this in the conclusion of
the last European Council, where there is an explicit reference
to national backstops.”  Draghi warned that market interest rates are a signal as to
whether governments are pursuing necessary economic reforms.  “The message markets are sending -- not only markets, all
of you -- to countries we mentioned is very simple: stability
and reforms,” he said. “The greatest pressure should come from
the inside. The reforms should be made for their own sake; they
shouldn’t be pressed by markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Gordon  in Frankfurt at 
 pgordon6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  