-- Draghi Says ECB Sees Backstops in Place for Bank Reviews
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-10-02T15:29:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/draghi-says-ecb-sees-backstops-in-place-for-bank-reviews.html
 European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  expressed confidence that euro-area nations will
ensure there are backstops in place in time for bank reviews
next year.  There’s a “general determination” to have adequate
measures in place when the ECB takes on its new role as a bank
supervisor, Draghi told reporters in Paris today. He said
capital injections into banks probably won’t count against
budget ceilings under the currency bloc’s rules because they
will be one-off measures.  “That’s another thing that quite astonishes me as the
doubts that have been expressed about whether national backstops
will be in place,” Draghi said. “In fact, there is an explicit
reassurance about this in the conclusion of the last European
Council, where there is an explicit reference to national
backstops.”  The ECB is slated to take over supervision of all euro-area
banks next year, after a transition period in which regulators
will assess the quality of banks’ assets and their resilience to
shocks. Euro-area nations now are debating what kind of
financing options need to be in place to head off contagion from
capital shortfalls that are uncovered.  EU financial-services chief  Michel Barnier  has proposed a
Single Resolution Mechanism that would have a central fund
handle the costs of failing banks and give decision-making
authority on resolution decisions to the Brussels-based European
Commission.  Germany  has led objections to the proposed fund and
also the commission’s proposed powers.  Observer Status  Draghi said the ECB will decide when a bank under its
supervision is viable and not what to do after it fails. He said
the ECB should be only an observer on resolution and not hold a
voting role on any decision-making board.  “We view the two moments of assessing the known viability
of a certain banking concern and deciding which action should be
undertaken as clearly separated,” Draghi said. The ECB will
take care of the first part, and the SRM should handle the
second, he said.  His remarks counter a proposal from Germany’s main
opposition party, the Social Democrats, who called for the ECB
to take control of failing euro-area lenders.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has favored using a network of national bank regulators
to handle bank resolution, rather than Barnier’s proposed
central system.  Draghi reiterated the ECB’s plan to release details of its
bank-review process later this month. The euro area needs to
“harmonize” its definitions of non-performing loans and to
make sure the reviews are rigorous.  ‘Transparent, Rigorous’  “To be credible, they have to be transparent and rigorous,
othewise they’re useless,” Draghi said.  Draghi said he hopes credit will recover before the asset-quality review takes place. Bank funding conditions have
improved since 2012, for example in the context of strengthened
deposit bases in “a number of stressed countries,” he said.  If done correctly, the asset-quality reviews have the
chance to improve fragmentation across the euro-zone financial
sector, he said.  “It’s fear, it’s undertainty that has produced
fragmentation,” Draghi said. When the reviews take place, “I
don’t expect major disasters.”  On the question of how the risk of government bond holdings
will be assessed during the bank reviews, Draghi said the ECB so
far hasn’t discussed a policy approach.  “Current opinions about different riskiness of  government
bonds  are what they are, namely personal opinions which address
a clear issue: different riskiness of government bonds,” Draghi
said. “Let me also say that no action is being envisaged or no
policy has ever been discussed by the governing council to this
extent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Paris at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  