-- ECB’s Draghi Says He Doesn’t See Prospect of U.S. Default
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-10-02T13:48:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/draghi-says-ecb-to-keep-rates-low-for-extended-period-of-time.html
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi comments on monetary policy, the euro-area economy and
price developments.  He spoke at a press conference in Paris today after the
Frankfurt-based central bank kept its benchmark  interest rate  at
0.5 percent.  Asked if he sees the possibility of a U.S. default:  This “question is easy to answer: I don’t.”  On the U.S. budget battle and government shutdown:  “The U.S. budget shutdown is a risk if protracted. At the
present time, the impression one has is that it would not be so.
If it were to be protracted it’s certainly a risk for the U.S.
and the world recovery.”  On the ECB’s asset-quality review vis-a-vis previous stress
tests conducted by the EBA:  “We will give detailed communication about the design of
the asset-quality review in the second half of October.”  “People learn and the general -- I would say unanimous --
stance with respect to this exercise by all supervisors and
Governing Council members is to be transparent and rigorous.
It’s quite clear to everybody, in part because of the lesson we
had experienced, that in order to be useful, they have to be
credible; in order to be credible, they have to be transparent
and rigorous, in this order exactly. So the process has to be
absolutely transparent and I think we’re doing much to this
extent.”  On  Spain ’s banks and the asset-quality review:  “The program in Spain is judged to be on track. The
actions that have been undertaken have been considered adequate.
The recapitalization plans have been undertaken. The assets have
been transferred are are being sold already. Provisions have
been quite significant. So everything seems to suggest that
Spain will approach this exercise well-equipped. It’s very
difficult to guess at this point in time what can happen at
individual banks.”  On credit developments in the euro area:  “Credit flows are still weak, I would even say very weak,
even though we see a significant improvement in fragmentation on
the funding side. The reasons why credit flows are still weak
are complex and regard both demand and supply. Clearly demand
factors are important. Heightened risk aversion is another
factor which is important.”  On today’s rate decision:  “Based on our regular economic and monetary analyses, we
decided to keep the key ECB interest rates unchanged. Incoming
information and analysis have further underpinned our previous
assessment. Underlying price pressures in the euro area are
expected to remain subdued over the medium term. In keeping with
this picture, monetary and, in particular, credit dynamics
remain subdued. Inflation expectations for the euro area
continue to be firmly anchored in line with our aim of
maintaining inflation rates below, but close to, 2 percent over
the medium term. At the same time, real GDP growth in the second
quarter was positive, after six quarters of negative output
growth, and confidence indicators up to September confirm the
expected gradual improvement in economic activity from low
levels. Our monetary policy stance continues to be geared
towards maintaining the degree of monetary accommodation
warranted by the outlook for  price stability  and promoting
stable money market conditions. It thereby provides support to a
gradual recovery in economic activity.”  On the outlook for rates:  “Looking ahead, our monetary policy stance will remain
accommodative for as long as necessary, in line with the forward
guidance provided in July. The Governing Council confirms that
it expects the key ECB interest rates to remain at present or
lower levels for an extended period of time. This expectation
continues to be based on an unchanged overall subdued outlook
for inflation extending into the medium term, given the broad-based weakness in the economy and subdued monetary dynamics. In
the period ahead, we will monitor all incoming information on
economic and monetary developments and assess any impact on the
medium-term outlook for price stability. With regard to money
market conditions, we will remain particularly attentive to
developments which may have implications for the stance of
monetary policy and are ready to consider all available
instruments.”  On the euro-area economy:  “Following six quarters of negative output growth, euro
area real GDP rose, quarter on quarter, by 0.3 percent in the
second quarter of 2013, also supported by temporary factors
related to unusually adverse weather conditions in some euro
area countries earlier this year. Developments in industrial
production data point to somewhat weaker growth at the beginning
of the third quarter, while survey-based confidence indicators
up to September have improved further from low levels, overall
confirming our previous expectations of a gradual recovery in
economic activity. Looking ahead, output is expected to recover
at a slow pace, in particular owing to a gradual improvement in
domestic demand supported by the accommodative monetary policy
stance. Euro area economic activity should, in addition, benefit
from a gradual strengthening of external demand for exports.
Furthermore, the overall improvements in financial markets seen
since last summer appear to be gradually working their way
through to the real economy, as should the progress made in
fiscal consolidation. In addition, real incomes have benefited
recently from generally lower inflation. This being said,
unemployment in the euro area remains high, and the necessary
balance sheet adjustments in the public and private sectors will
continue to weigh on economic activity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simone Meier in London at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  