-- Dubai Stock Index Enters Bull Market Amid Bourse Merger Report
-- B y   S a m u e l   P o t t e r
-- 2013-10-02T12:33:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/dubai-stock-index-enters-bull-market-amid-bourse-merger-report.html
Dubai’s stock index climbed to the
highest in almost five years, led by  Dubai Financial Market (DFM) 
after Reuters reported that the emirate and  Abu Dhabi  hired
banks for a possible merger of their bourses.  The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  gained 2.7 percent to 2,829.53, the
strongest close since November 2008. The measure has climbed 22
percent from a two-month low in September, entering a  bull
market . The shares of DFM, the only publicly traded exchange in
the region, surged 15 percent, the most in four months.  Dubai
Investments PJSC (DIC) , which holds stakes in more than 40 businesses,
also soared 15 percent, the most since 2009.  Abu Dhabi and Dubai aim to reach an agreement on the merger
of the exchanges by the end of the year, Reuters reported,
citing people it didn’t identify. The DFM isn’t party to any
merger talks, the company said in a statement posted on the
bourse website. In April 2012, Abdullah Al Turaifi, chief
executive officer of the Securities & Commodities Authority,
said the owners of the bourses may “hopefully” decide by the
end of that year on whether to consolidate their operations.  “The market turned positive mainly thanks to the DFM
stock,” Yaser Abushaban, executive director of asset management
at  Emirates Investment Bank PJSC (EIBANK) , said by phone. “Investors
expect a merger between the two exchanges to mean improved
valuations, better liquidity and more flows” which would lead
to higher commissions for the bourse, he said.  74 Percent  The average daily  trading value  on Dubai’s bourse is 574
million dirhams ($156 million) this year, compared with a record
1.5 billion dirhams in 2007, before Dubai’s housing market
crashed. Dubai and Abu Dhabi’s stock indexes have been the best
performing this year among the 50 largest tracked by Bloomberg,
as growth accelerates in the  United Arab Emirates , the second-biggest Arab economy. Dubai’s gauge has surged 74 percent while
Abu Dhabi’s jumped 47 percent.  DFM shares jumped to 2.34 dirhams, the highest since
November 2009, while DIC closed at 2.18 dirhams as trading
volumes of both companies climbed to almost five times the
three-month daily average.  The U.A.E. is home to three exchanges. The Abu Dhabi
Securities Market and the DFM are regulated by the Emirates
Securities & Commodities Authority, while Nasdaq Dubai is
regulated by the Dubai Financial Services Authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samuel Potter in Dubai at 
 spotter33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  