-- EDF Seeks Out Cost Savings for Nuclear-Waste Repository
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-10-02T16:46:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/edf-seeks-out-cost-savings-for-nuclear-waste-repository.html
Electricite de France SA (EDF) , operator of
the country’s 58 nuclear reactors, is studying ways to lower the
price of a planned repository for highly radioactive waste.  “EDF will be vigilant that this project develops with
safety, industrial efficiency and controlled costs,” Sylvain
Granger, director of nuclear fuel at Paris-based EDF, told a
 parliamentary hearing  today. The utility is seeking to save
money without compromising safety, he said.  France  has struggled to execute plans to bury nuclear waste
at a site near the northeastern town of Bure, with public
debates called off amid protests by opponents. EDF is also under
pressure to keep project costs in check as it invests in reactor
upgrades while seeking to lower its 33.7 billion euros ($45.8
billion) of debt.  While estimates for the Bure repository have reached as
high as 35 billion euros, it’s often possible to lower costs by
as much as 70 percent from initial projections, Granger said.  The government, EDF and Andra, the national nuclear waste
management agency, are working to produce a new cost estimate by
the end of 2013, according to Charles-Antoine Louet, deputy
director of the government’s energy and climate directorate. The
energy minister will decide on the figure, he said.  France gets three-quarters of its power from atomic plants,
a bigger proportion than any other nation. EDF faces billions of
euros of costs to improve reactor safety after the authorities
tightened rules following the 2011 meltdown at  Japan ’s Fukushima
plant. President  Francois Hollande  has vowed to curb dependence
on nuclear generation and shut EDF’s oldest reactor in 2016.  Environmental Concern  Environmental groups including Greenpeace have criticized a
lack of certainty around what exactly will be stored in the Bure
repository and whether spent fuel will go in if France phases
out its reactors. Industry watchdog the  Autorite de Surete
Nucleaire  has said it may not be ready to give its view for
three or four more years.  “There are a certain number of open questions” about
safety, said Pierre-Franck Chevet, head of the ASN. “The
project hasn’t been finalized.”  Andra is seeking to start construction in 2019 and begin
operations in 2025. The public consultation is due to result in
a non-binding report on the project, which also needs approval
from the ASN as well as a new law making the waste disposal
reversible for a limited period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  