-- Telogis Raises $93 Million From Kleiner Perkins to Track Fleets
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-10-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/telogis-raises-93-million-from-kleiner-perkins-to-track-fleets.html
Telogis Inc. , a developer of software
to track commercial vehicles, raised $93 million from investors
including Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, as it prepares to
hold an initial public offering as soon as 2014.  Telogis is profitable and expects to generate about $90
million in sales this year, Chief Executive Officer David Cozzens said yesterday in an interview. The company raised its
first institutional funding in its 12-year history after opting
against an earlier IPO, Cozzens said.  Through deals with  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Volvo Trucks North
America, Telogis is equipping commercial vehicles with
technology to track the whereabouts and workloads of employees
in the field. The company develops software for industries
including construction, telecommunications and catering.  “More and more vehicles and mobile devices are GPS and
wireless enabled,” Cozzens said. “It’s transforming the way
these companies operate.”  Telogis, based in  Aliso Viejo ,  California , hired Morgan
Stanley earlier this year to explore a potential share sale and
chose instead to raise private funding, Cozzens said. The funds
will go toward developing new software and striking more deals
with vehicle manufacturers, he said.  Kleiner Perkins, known for early investments in consumer-Internet companies  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and Google Inc., has pushed
into  business software  with investments in electronic medical
records startup Practice Fusion Inc., monitoring-software
provider AppDynamics Inc. and business-application manager
Apperian Inc.  Joining Board  Ryan Popple, a partner at Kleiner Perkins, is joining
Telogis’s board and said he plans to help the company capture a
larger market share ahead of an IPO.  “We like being involved in companies at this stage and
giving them capital and the time to have their model perfected
before they address the public market,” Popple said in an
interview.  The  Menlo Park , California-based venture firm has had
recent success in location software as well. The firm was an
early backer of Waze, a smartphone-mapping app, which Google
Inc. bought for about $1 billion earlier this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  