-- Emerging Tech Stocks Increase to 13-Year High on Twitter
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r ,   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-10-02T22:44:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/emerging-stocks-rise-as-samsung-leads-tech-index-to-13-year-high.html
Emerging-market technology stocks
rose to the highest in 13 years on prospects Twitter Inc.’s
initial public offering will boost developing-nation Internet
stocks.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets and Information Technology Index 
climbed 1.3 percent to 288.03 in  New York , the highest level
since April 2000. Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s biggest
smartphone maker, climbed the most in a month. The MSCI Emerging
Markets Index rose 0.2 percent to 997.85, as  Brazil ’s Oi SA
surged. Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  and  Turkey ’s Borsa Istanbul measure
retreated.  The index of developing-nation technology stocks climbed on
expectation Twitter, which said last month that it filed for an
IPO, will publicly disclose its prospectus this week. The
offering is expected to be the largest technology IPO since
Facebook Inc. went public last year. The gains sent valuations
on the MSCI EM technology index to 11.3 times estimated
earnings, still a 20 percent discount to its developed market
counterpart, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Talk of a high valuation for Twitter is likely boosting
prices of tech companies in emerging markets,” David Riedel,
the president of New York-based Riedel Research Group Inc.,
wrote by e-mail today. “Any news flow that reminds investors of
the strength and attractiveness of tech investing makes
investors look around the world for similar investment ideas and
raises the valuations on the whole group.”  Compal, Samsung  Taipei-based  Compal Electronics Inc. (2324) , the world’s second-biggest contract maker of  notebook computers , headed for a one-year high with trading volume three times the daily three-month
average, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The stock is the
biggest gainer on the MSCI EM technology gauge. GCL-Poly Energy
Holdings, the world’s biggest maker of polysilicon, rose to the
highest in 18 months in  Hong Kong .  Samsung rose 2.6 percent after the Korea Economic Daily
reported the company’s handset earnings will be better in the
third quarter compared with the previous three months, citing JK
Shin, head of mobile business. Samsung spokeswoman Chenny Kim
confirmed Shin’s comments.  Seven out of 10 industry groups in the  emerging-markets 
measure gained, while  energy  and  consumer  discretionary
companies led today’s declines. The Information Technology Index
was the  top performer  among 10 industry groups today.  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund added 0.4 percent to $41.73. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
rose 1.1 percent to 24.71.  Gazprom Slips  OAO Gazprom, the supplier of a quarter of  Europe ’s natural
gas, slumped 1.6 percent. Dividend payments from Russian state-owned companies are projected to rise sharply only in 2016,
according to a Finance Ministry draft budget. Russia’s benchmark
Micex Index declined 1.2 percent.  Oi SA rallied 5.2 percent after Brazil’s biggest phone
company agreed to merge with Portugal Telecom SGPS SA to create
a trans-Atlantic carrier whose 100 million customers make it
more competitive against Telefonica SA and America Movil SAB.  The  Borsa Istanbul 100 Index (XU100)  tumbled 1.7 percent in
Istanbul on investor concern over the lira’s weakness, Figen Ozavci, deputy CEO at Meksa Yatirim said in a phone interview.
The currency depreciated 4.7 percent against the dollar in the
three months through Sept. 30, extending two quarterly declines.
The lira rose 0.8 percent versus the dollar.  Arrest Warrant  Hungary’s  BUX Index (BUX)  lost 0.9 percent as Mol Nyrt. closed at
the lowest since June 2012. Croatian police issued an arrest
warrant against CEO and chairman Zsolt Hernadi this week in
connection with a corruption investigation relating to Mol’s
2009 acquisition of INA Industrija Nafte d.d. Mol has denied any
wrongdoing and says that Hernadi can continue to lead the
company even as the warrant may keep him from traveling abroad.  Shares in Dubai, which will be added to the emerging-markets gauge in 2014, rallied 2.7 percent to the strongest
since 2008, entering a  bull market . The  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  gained
0.6 percent.  Markets in India and  China  were shut for holidays today.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has lost 5.4 percent this
year, compared with a 16 percent advance in the MSCI World Index
of developed-nation shares. The emerging-country index  trades  at
10.5 times projected 12-month earnings, lower than the MSCI
World’s  13.9 times , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in London at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
Daliah Merzaban at 
 dmerzaban@bloomberg.net  