-- Emerging-Market Currencies Fall 30% in Reserves, Citigroup Says
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2013-10-02T19:17:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/emerging-market-currencies-fall-30-in-reserves-citigroup-says.html
Global central banks sold 30 percent
of their holdings in emerging-market currencies from foreign
reserves in the second quarter as the Brazilian real to the
Indian rupee tumbled, according to Citigroup Inc.  Reserve managers divested as much as $20 billion in their
holdings in developing-nation currencies, strategist Steven Englander wrote yesterday in a research note to clients, citing
data from the International Monetary Fund’s  quarterly reserves
report . The central banks may have sold a similar amount from
the reserves in the third quarter, Englander wrote.  Emerging-market currencies have declined since May on
concern a tapering of Federal Reserve stimulus will drain
capital and stall economic growth in developing nations. The
decline in allocation to  emerging markets  was a reversal of
central banks’ practice of diversifying their reserves from
dollars and euros.  “It’s fair to say that this kind of move suggests reserve
managers are more cautious toward the medium-to-long-term
outlook for emerging-market currencies,” Englander said in a
telephone interview from New York today. The selloff “may have
made reserve managers as well as private sector managers wonder
whether some of the attractiveness in risky assets was due to
liquidity rather than underlying fundamentals.”  The Brazilian real has fallen 6.9 percent to 2.2025 per
U.S. dollar since May 22, when Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
signaled that U.S. monetary stimulus may be scaled back. The
Indian rupee dropped 11 percent to 62.4650 per dollar.  ‘Other Currencies’  Adjusted for valuation changes, holdings of central bank
reserves that are in the “other currencies” category in the
IMF report declined to less than $75 billion in the second
quarter from more than $100 billion in the previous period,
according to Englander’s calculations.  IMF defines “other currencies” as those other than the
dollar, yen, euro, Swiss franc, British pound and the Australian
and Canadian dollars. While currencies such as the Norwegian
krone and Swedish krona may be included in the category, the
reserves declines are probably dominated by emerging-market
currencies, Englander wrote.  Until a year ago, central banks had accelerated the move
away from major reserve currencies since the global financial
crisis in 2008 as the dollar declined.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  