-- Empire State Realty Trust Gains After $929.5 Million IPO
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-10-02T20:34:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/empire-state-realty-trust-gains-after-929-5-million-ipo.html
Empire State Realty Trust Inc. (ESRT) , whose
properties include  Manhattan ’s Empire State Building, climbed in
its first day of trading after raising $929.5 million in its
initial public offering.  The real estate investment trust  sold  71.5 million shares
for $13 each, the low end of the projected range of $13 to $15,
according to a statement yesterday by the New York-based
company. The stock closed at $13.10, up 0.8 percent, after
earlier gaining as much as 3.8 percent.  The sale culminates an almost two-year quest by the Empire
State Building’s supervisors, Peter Malkin and his son Anthony,
to take the iconic skyscraper and 20 other New York-area
properties public, a process marked by battles with some of the
tower’s longtime investors. Anthony Malkin, the REIT’s chairman,
president and chief executive officer, said he was “not at
all” disappointed that the initial shares priced so low.  “This is the beginning of a journey, not the end,” he
said in a Bloomberg Television interview with  Betty Liu . “What
we did was deliver to folks what they wanted -- their
optionality, their opportunity for choice.”  The low initial price reflects investors’ concerns about
how the REIT will be governed and whether it’s ready for the
rigors of being public, Michael Knott, an analyst at Newport
Beach, California-based Green Street Advisors Inc., said in a
research note today. Investors also aren’t sure how to regard
leasing challenges at the Empire State Building and how to value
the tower’s highly profitable observatory, he said.  Not ‘Wowed’  The skyscraper will face new competition in 2015 from the
opening of the 1 World Trade Center observatory in lower
Manhattan, according to Knott.  “Investors were not overly wowed,” Knott wrote. “So
management enters the public market with something to prove.”  The IPO was the second-biggest for a U.S. REIT, excluding
an overallotment. Douglas Emmett Inc. raised almost $1.4 billion
in 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Empire State Realty enters the market in a period of
uncertainty over the U.S. government shutdown and a potential
clash between President  Barack Obama  and Congress over the debt
limit in two weeks. Interest rates have jumped since May, when
the Federal Reserve signaled it could start curbing stimulus
measures.  “The climate isn’t ideal, but if you’re going to do a REIT
IPO, being in the office space is probably a better place to be
than apartments or health care, based on where those stocks have
moved of late,” Jeffrey Langbaum, a Bloomberg Industries
analyst, said in an interview before yesterday’s pricing. “And
if you’re going to be in the office space, New York is a better
place to be than the broader market.”  Office Vacancies  The Bloomberg REIT Index dropped 14 percent through
yesterday from a peak on May 21, while a narrower gauge of
 office-property trusts  lost 9.7 percent.  Empire State Realty’s offices are about 84 percent leased,
compared with New York-area occupancy rates of 92 percent for  SL
Green Realty Corp (SLG) , 96 percent for  Vornado Realty Trust (VNO)  and 95
percent for  Boston Properties Inc. (BXP) , according to their
regulatory filings.  The three competitors all have larger New York office
portfolios than Empire State Realty, which has about 5.9 million
square feet (548,000 square meters) in the city. The company
also controls six retail properties in Manhattan and Westport,
 Connecticut , and five office buildings north of the city.  Value Discount  At the opening price, the stock traded at a 16 percent
discount to value of its buildings excluding debt, Knott of
Green Street wrote today. Office REITs on average are trading at
about 2 percent less than the value of their assets, while
Boston Properties is at about a 2 percent premium, according to
a Sept. 23 report by the research firm.  Empire State Realty should benefit from spillover from the
“hot”  midtown south office market , according to Knott. Vacancy
rates in the area, which is popular with technology and media
companies, are the lowest among U.S. markets.  Vacancies at the 82-year-old Empire State Building are in
part the result of a $550 million improvement project, according
to Green Street. Revenue has more than doubled on space in the
tower that has been renovated, Knott said.  The vacancies represent a “big opportunity” for
investors, Anthony Malkin said in the interview. The Empire
State Building benefits from not being popular among retrenching
financial firms and already has a roster of tenants with high
growth potential, including LinkedIn Corp., Shutterstock Inc.
and Coty Inc.  Legacy Investors  Most of the funds raised in the IPO would go toward buying
out the estate of Harry Helmsley, which still has a majority
stake in the Empire State Building’s sublease, according to the
prospectus. Proceeds also would be used to cover transaction
costs and pay debt.  The Malkin family will own 15 percent of the trust’s
shares, and about 50 percent will be controlled by pre-IPO
legacy holders, according to Knott. The expiration of lockup
periods six and 12 months from now, after which those investors
could sell their shares, may hurt the stock price, he said in
today’s note.  A minority of the Empire State Building’s roughly 2,800
legacy unitholders challenged the REIT proposal, favoring to
keep a steady income stream and the bragging rights that come
with owning a piece of such an iconic property. In May, the
Malkins received the necessary approvals from investors to
proceed with the IPO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  