-- Envoys Spar Over Aviation Carbon Market Compromise Deal
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-10-02T22:03:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/envoys-spar-over-aviation-carbon-market-compromise-deal.html
Aviation negotiators have begun final
talks in Montreal over the creation of a carbon market for the
world airline industry.  More than 190 countries in the  International Civil Aviation
Organization  are discussing a revised proposal by the assembly’s
President Michel Wachenheim that would limit the European Union
emissions trading system prior to the global deal and exempt
countries with a low share in international civil aviation. The
triennial meeting ends Oct. 4.  At stake is international commitment to agree on the
details of a market-based emissions-reduction tool for the $708
billion industry in 2016 and start the program in 2020. An
agreement would be unprecedented for any global industry.
Airlines emit 2 percent of  greenhouse gases  worldwide.  The issue of a global program for airlines moved to the top
of the ICAO agenda this year after the European carbon market
expanded to cover airlines.  Russia , the U.S. and  Brazil  opposed
the EU’s plan to include in the market emissions from the full
length of all flights to and from its airports, including
flights to and from destinations outside the EU.  Under the draft compromise, the EU will be required to
narrow the scope of the program until 2020. The deal would allow
the 28-nation bloc to impose carbon curbs on flights only in the
EU airspace.  EU Support  The EU will be able to accept the compromise if each
element of the proposal is kept and the package receives a
strong majority support, said Lithuania, which holds the
rotating presidency of the bloc.  “Most other nations are likely to also prefer such a
compromise because it would reduce the current tension among
parties, without tangible commitments in the next few years,”
Itamar Orlandi, an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in
 London , wrote in an e-mail today.  The draft deal proposes route-based exemptions to and from
states whose share in international civil aviation is below 4.7
billion revenue ton kilometers in 2014, with the threshold to be
reduced each year. The African states originally wanted
developing countries with less than 1 percent share in
international civil aviation to be excluded from carbon markets.
The U.S. objected to the reference in the original proposal to
“developing states.”  The U.S. supports many aspects of the compromise, according
to Todd Stern, the State Department’s lead envoy on climate.
Provisions that are not perfect include the threshold for
exemptions from market-based mechanisms and details on what
measures should be subject to mutual agreement, he told the ICAO
assembly’s executive committee today.  Russia, China  Countries including Russia,  India , Brazil and  China  oppose
the new draft, saying it would validate a unilateral move by the
EU to impose carbon curbs on airlines worldwide. They say any
new market-based mechanism or implementation of an existing
program should be subject to consultation and negotiation.  They also want references to 2016 and 2020 dropped in
exchange for promises to develop a market-based mechanism
“after its feasibility and practicability are determined.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in  Montreal  at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net ; 