-- Mercedes Plant Shows Luxury Vehicles Draw Brazil Demand
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e   a n d   A n n a   E d g e r t o n
-- 2013-10-02T14:18:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/mercedes-plant-shows-luxury-vehicles-draw-brazil-demand.html
Makers of luxury autos from  Daimler
AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz to Volkswagen AG’s Audi are preparing to
build cars again in Brazil in a bet that the country’s market
for  luxury vehicles  may triple by 2017.  Mercedes said yesterday that it will make sedans and sport-utility vehicles in Sao Paulo state in a revival of local
output, two weeks after Audi said it will return to Brazil, the
world’s fourth-biggest auto market. Those two and Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG each have said in the past year that they will
invest more than $220 million to assemble models that are now
imported and will face higher duties in coming years.  Total car sales will reach a record 4.3 million this year,
according to Anfavea, Brazil’s auto-industry trade group. As
mature markets such as the U.S. and  Europe  expand at a slower
pace, automakers are counting on places like Brazil.  “The market for luxury cars is still very small, so there
is a lot of potential for growth,” said Augusto Amorim, auto
analyst for  South America  at  IHS Inc. (IHS) ’s R.L. Polk unit.
“Brazilians still have a lot of need for image, so in this
aspect German companies have a lot of advantage.”  Mercedes plans to build its C-Class sedan and the GLA small
SUV, and Audi’s factory will make the A3 sedan and Q3 SUV. BMW
hasn’t said what its plant will produce.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) ’s
Jaguar Land Rover has a feasibility study under way to consider
Brazil as a possible location for a facility, according to a
statement today from the Mumbai-based company.  Tripling Demand  They’re counting on the nation’s luxury-car demand tripling
to about 100,000 a year by 2017, said Philipp Schiemer, head of
Daimler’s business in  Brazil  since June. According to a 2012
McKinsey & Co. report, Brazil’s sales of luxury cars were
increasing by 45 percent annually.  The country’s 2010 census showed that the average income
for the top 5 percent of the population was about 7,772 reais
($3,493) a month, up from 4,872 reais a decade earlier.  The luxury-auto makers are returning to Brazil as  Anfavea 
creates several programs with the government to support local
production, Luiz Moan Yabiku, the trade group’s president, said
in a Sept. 20 interview.  One program, Inovar Auto, “puts the Brazilian automobile
industry on a technological level to face international
competition in 2018,” Moan said. That helped prompt Daimler’s
interest.  “We see that there are very clear rules through 2017 in
the new policy that lead us to believe that with a Brazilian
factory, we can participate in the growth of the market,”
Schiemer said.  September Sales  Sales of cars and light trucks in Brazil rose 5.9 percent
in September from a year earlier to 293,961, the nation’s auto-dealers association, Fenabrave, said today.  Companies are looking for lower costs, weaker unions and
stronger markets, Bernardo Carneiro, an analyst at Deutsche Bank
SA in Sao Paulo, said in a Sept. 9 telephone interview.  “In  emerging markets , you have consumers with more
disposable income and unemployment at historic lows,” he said.
“It’s about Brazilian domestic consumption.”  Production in Brazil, Latin America’s largest economy, is
also tempting automakers because it can carry an exemption for
vehicles built aboard from an upcoming tax of about 30 percent,
said Tony Volpon, head of emerging-markets research for the
Americas at Nomura Holdings Inc.  ‘Lower Tariff’  “There are import regimes that if you build cars in Brazil
you can import other cars into Brazil at a much lower tariff,”
Volpon said in a telephone interview from  New York . “So if BMW
builds a couple of cars in Brazil they can bring the other BMWs
from  Germany  and not pay the 30 percent tariff.”  Shares of Stuttgart, Germany-based Daimler rose 40 percent
in  Frankfurt  this year through yesterday. BMW gained 11 percent,
while Audi climbed 15 percent.  The Mercedes plant, to cost about 170 million euros
($230 million), will be in Iracemapolis, about 170 kilometers
(105 miles) northwest of the city of  Sao Paulo . Schiemer told
reporters in Brazil yesterday that the first phase of production
will be 20,000 units a year.  Audi, based in Ingolstadt, Germany, announced plans last
month to invest 500 million reais for a factory in Sao Jose dos
Pinhais in Parana state in southern Brazil. The company’s sales
target is 30,000 vehicles a year by 2018, including imported
vehicles.  BMW said in October 2012 that it will spend 200 million
euros on a factory in the southern state of Santa Catarina. The
plant will produce as many as 30,000 vehicles a year, according
to the Munich-based company.  Earlier Strategies  Audi and Mercedes are returning to Brazil after abandoning
the market in the 2000s. Both chose strategies that failed, said
Amorim, the IHS analyst.  Audi’s locally built model was its A3 hatchback, which
competed with the Golf from parent company  Volkswagen (VOW) , while
Mercedes produced the A-Class, which Brazilians found overpriced
and small, he said.  With planned annual production of 30,000 vehicles or less,
the three automakers “know they won’t start selling a lot
overnight,” Amorim said.  “Audi sees Brazil as a very promising market,” Chief
Executive Officer Rupert Stadler told reporters last month in
Brasilia. “We hope that it will continue growing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edgerton in Brasilia at 
 aedgerton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  