-- Heron Tower Said to Get Refinancing Deal to Avert Sale
-- B y   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a   a n d   J e f f r e y   S t . O n g e
-- 2013-10-02T10:52:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/heron-tower-said-to-get-600-million-refinancing-averting-sale.html
The owners of Heron Tower, one of the
 City of London  financial district’s tallest skyscrapers, reached
a 370 million-pound ($600 million) refinancing deal that
includes a new loan from Starwood Capital Group LLC, a person
with knowledge of the matter said.  Starwood Capital will provide a 270 million-pound loan and
the tower’s three equity partners will put in 100 million pounds
of new equity, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the matter is private. The deal means it won’t be
necessary to sell the tower to pay a 315 million-pound loan owed
to banks led by  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   The 46-story tower’s owners, including developer Heron
International Ltd. and the State General Reserve of Oman Fund,
had been unable to agree on how to repay debt attached to the
building, a person with knowledge of the matter said last month.
Citigroup Inc. and Starwood Capital Group were among several
companies that had offered to refinance the loans, that person
said.  Tom Johnson , a Starwood Capital spokesman, and Emma Kane, a
spokeswoman for Heron International who works for Redleaf
Polhill, declined to comment on the refinancing.  Members of the Saudi royal family also own a stake in the
Heron Tower. The building, which opened in March 2011, has
tenants accounting for about 60 percent of its space as of
September, according to Heron International.  More leasing agreements are being signed in central London
as tenants that delayed a move during the financial crisis begin
to seek new space. More than 7.4 million square feet (688,000
square meters) of  office space  was leased during the year
through September, 165,000 square feet more than in the whole of
2012, broker Cushman & Wakefield Inc. said on Sept. 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francine Lacqua in  London  at 
 flacqua@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey St.Onge in London at 
 jstonge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  