-- Tesco Commits to Overseas Markets Amid ‘Atrocious’ Sales
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-10-02T14:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/tesco-first-half-profit-falls-amid-investment-to-win-shoppers.html
  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the biggest U.K. grocer,
said it’s committed to fixing its international businesses after
same-store sales declined in all nine markets and European
profit plunged in the first half.  “We’ll fight our way through a difficult macro
environment” in  Europe , Chief Financial Officer Laurie McIlwee
said on a conference call today, batting aside suggestions that
the retailer may seek to exit more countries after quitting the
U.S. and  Japan , while ceding control of its business in  China .  Tesco’s businesses in Europe and  Asia  are showing signs of
distress similar to those of the company’s domestic business
about two years ago. The retailer, which gets about a third of
sales outside the U.K., faces rising competition from budget
stores and convenience chains in countries from  Thailand  to
 Poland . Rushing to exit may not be the answer, said Richard Marwood, who helps oversee more than $700 billion at  Axa
Investment Managers. (AXAOPIN)   “We’re not a believer in that the minute something goes
wrong you need to cut it in its entirety,” said London-based
Marwood. “Looking at the state of the European economy, is it
an amazing surprise they haven’t done particularly well?”  Tesco  shares fell  as much as 4.7 percent, the most in four
months, on disappointment at the retailer’s international
performance in the first half of the year. That cut the grocer’s
market value by about 1.3 billion pounds to 27.7 billion pounds
($45 billion). The stock was down 1.7 percent at 3:20 p.m.  ‘Pretty Atrocious’  Operating profit in Europe slid 68 percent to 55 million
pounds. Like-for-like sales in the region fell 5 percent as
shoppers in Ireland defected to cheaper offerings and Turkish
customers shunned the grocer’s large-store formats. Losses in
 Turkey  increased “significantly,” the company said.  Business in some markets was “pretty atrocious,” Darren Shirley, an analyst at  Shore Capital (SGR) , said in a note, citing
same-store sales declines of 13 percent in Turkey, 6.4 percent
in Poland and 6.9 percent in the  Czech Republic . “Europe most
certainly needs attention from Tesco’s management.”  The retailer also struggled in Asia, where operating profit
fell 7.4 percent to 314 million pounds amid restrictions on
store opening hours in  South Korea , its biggest market outside
the U.K.  Tesco doesn’t intend to exit Turkey and doesn’t feel the
same about its operations in central Europe as it did about the
U.S. and Japan, McIlwee said on the call.  European Margin  The grocer agreed to sell most of its Fresh & Easy chain in
the U.S. to a company owned by billionaire  Ron Burkle  last
month, ending a failed six-year foray into the world’s biggest
economy. Last year, it paid 40 million pounds to exit Japan.
Tesco today said it would pay $558 million to fold its Chinese
hypermarkets into a joint venture with  China Resources
Enterprise Ltd. (291)  It announced talks for that deal in August.  Tesco’s trading margin in Europe has dropped to 1.2 percent
of sales from 3.5 percent in the last financial year and almost
5 percent two years ago. That won’t recover until “the  euro
zone  is getting back to where it was,” McIlwee said. “Europe
is a very difficult place to retail at the moment.”  Investments in price and quality in Poland should boost
sales in the second half, McIlwee said. In Turkey, Tesco will
seek to boost sales at about 30 stores in the eastern part of
the country where business is struggling, unlike outlets in the
more affluent area around the Mediterranean, McIlwee said.  Even so, that part of the Turkish business is probably
being ring-fenced “for disposal or closure,” while Tesco may
still “consider exiting” Poland,  BNP Paribas (BNP)  analyst John Kershaw said in a note today.  Domestic Struggle  The retailer’s international struggles come at a time when
the company is seeking to revive growth at home.  U.K. same-store sales, excluding petrol and value-added
taxes, were unchanged in the second quarter, Tesco said today,
matching analyst estimates for that measure. That was an
improvement from the 1 percent decline in the first quarter.  Competitor  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY)  today reported 2 percent growth
in second-quarter same-store sales, excluding gasoline, an
outcome that matched analysts’ estimates.  Tesco said it expects to show an “improved trading
performance” in the second half, noting that investments in
Europe are already having an effect after a “challenging retail
environment” in the first half. The company repeated its goal
of mid-single digit trading profit growth in the medium term.  First-half trading profit at the Cheshunt, England-based
retailer fell 7.6 percent to 1.59 billion pounds, compared with
the 1.62 billion-pound median estimate of 13 analysts.  British Chicken  After its first profit annual drop in almost two decades
last year, Tesco has been investing in improving the quality of
its own-brand products and is revamping its hypermarkets with
bakeries, gourmet coffee and tapas while adding outlets like
Harris & Hoole coffee shops and Giraffe restaurants to the
premises to make them more desirable destinations.  Improvements to the domestic food offer have included
getting all fresh chicken from U.K. producers, and all beef
products from Britain and Ireland, the company said.  Still, shoppers are defecting both to budget competitors
like Aldi and higher-end shops such as Waitrose. Tesco’s market
share fell to 30.2 percent in the 12 weeks ended Sept. 15 from
30.9 percent a year earlier, Kantar Worldpanel said Sept. 25.  Having done “a lot of necessary, hard and good work” over
the last three years, Chief Executive Officer  Philip Clarke 
still has more to do before “the corporate bar feels less
heavy,” Shirley at Shore Capital wrote today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  