-- Tesco Says Any China Deals Will Go Through New Retail Venture
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   W o n g   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-10-03T02:49:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/tesco-to-pay-558-million-for-venture-with-china-resources.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the U.K.’s largest
retailer, said any deals in China will be funded through its new
joint venture with state-backed  China Resources (291)  Enterprise Ltd.  The largest U.K. retailer yesterday said it will pay
HK$4.33 billion ($558 million) to gain 20 percent of a venture
with  China Resources  to extend its reach in the world’s most
populous nation.  “Any retail business that starts in China, that’s either
acquired or developed, will be part of the joint venture,”
Tesco Chief Financial Officer Laurie McIlwee, who will join the
board of the tie-up, said in  London  yesterday. “The
acquisition, if there was an acquisition, will be financed
through the debt of the business because the two businesses will
be brought together both cash-and debt-free so there is huge
debt capacity in the combined joint venture.”  China Resources, the  Hong Kong  listed retail and beer
conglomerate, in August said that it may partner with Tesco to
bid for billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s ParknShop, one of the two
largest grocer chains in Hong Kong’s $6.6 billion supermarket
industry. The Chinese company’s Chief Financial Officer Frank Lai yesterday declined to comment on the progress for a bid for
ParknShop “because there is a process going on. ” Hutchison is
seeking $3 billion to $4 billion for the unit, a person familiar
with the sale said earlier this year.  China Resources fell 1.2 percent to HK$24.70 at 10:39 a.m
in Hong Kong trading today, while Tesco fell 0.3 percent to 358
pence in London yesterday.  Tesco Venture  Tesco will combine 134 outlets and shopping-mall business
in China with the almost 3,000 stores owned by the state-backed
conglomerate in China and Hong Kong in a tie-up  announced in
August . The two companies plan to run supermarkets,  convenience
stores  and liquor shops in the Greater China region. China
Resources will hold 80 percent of the venture.  The deal would allow Tesco to expand in China’s $574
billion hypermarket industry while ending almost a decade of
independent operations as sales fall amid competition from
rivals such as Sun Art Retail Group Ltd. China Resources, which
runs the country’s second-largest hypermarket business, would
gain from Tesco’s expertise in areas including private labels,
e-commerce and international sourcing, the companies said.  Board Seats  Tesco will have two out of a maximum of 10 seats on the
board of the venture, whose annual sales are estimated at 10
billion pounds ($16 billion), the Cheshunt, England-based
company said. Completion of the deal is expected in the first
half of 2014, subject to regulatory and shareholder approval.  In addition to hypermarkets, Tesco owns 11 Lifespace
shopping malls in  China  and eight in 50-50 joint ventures with
local partners.  The U.K. retailer is exiting international markets after
almost two decades of overseas expansion took the focus off its
home base. Tesco agreed in June 2012 to pay 40 million pounds to
leave its Japanese joint venture, and said last month that it
was exiting the U.S.  Tesco started selling goods in China in 2004 and generated
1.4 billion pounds of sales in the country last fiscal year,
according to its  website . Sales for its China stores open at
least a year dropped 4.9 percent in the first quarter amid
consumer concern over bird flu and weaker demand for pork after
a national food safety scare.  Profit Plunge  The U.K. company reported yesterday that same-store sales
declined in all nine markets and Europe profit plunged in the
first half.  China Resources and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. are tied for
second place in the country’s hypermarket industry with an 11
percent share each last year, according to Euromonitor
International.  Sun Art Retail Group Ltd. (6808) , backed by  France ’s
Groupe Auchan, was the market leader with 14 percent, while
Tesco ranked eighth with 2.4 percent.  Revenue in China’s hypermarket industry will probably
expand to 864 billion  yuan  ($141 billion) by 2015, a 50 percent
gain from last year, according to Euromonitor.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Wong in Hong Kong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  