-- Tetangco Sees Philippine GDP Growth Topping 7% This Year
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2013-10-03T11:53:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/tetangco-sees-philippine-gdp-growth-topping-7-this-year.html
The Philippines will withstand
pressure stemming from the impending reduction of the  Federal
Reserve ’s stimulus with growth exceeding 7 percent this year,
central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas will probably keep interest
rates steady this year and next, “barring any unforeseen
shocks,” Tetangco, 60, said in an interview in his office in
Manila yesterday. Inflation will fall within the central bank’s
target range for a fifth year this year, he said.  The Asian Development Bank yesterday raised its gross
domestic product growth estimate for the Philippines this year
to 7 percent, while cutting its prediction for developing  Asia .
Slowing growth in China and  India  is compounded by concern that
the unwinding of the Fed stimulus will drive investors away from
emerging nations and spur volatility in financial markets.  “What we have observed is that the impact on us has mainly
been in terms of greater financial market volatility,” Tetangco
said. “The economy hasn’t been affected much. Domestic demand
is the real driver. We’re less dependent on the performance of
other countries or the rest of the world, unlike our
neighbors.”  The peso climbed 0.7 percent, the most in  Southeast Asia 
today after the Malaysian ringgit. The Philippine Stock Exchange
 Index (PCOMP)  added 0.4 percent to 6,387.65 at the close in Manila, the
highest since Sept. 26.  Benign Inflation  Inflation eased to a four-year low in August, with consumer
prices rising 2.1 percent from a year earlier.  Policy makers have held the benchmark  interest rate  at a
record-low 3.5 percent since cutting it a year ago. The central
bank targets consumer price gains to average 3 percent to 5
percent in 2013 and 2014.  Philippine  GDP (PHGDPYOY)  rose 7.5 percent in the second quarter from
a year earlier, matching China’s pace and higher than the
government target of 6 percent to 7 percent for the year.
President Benigno Aquino yesterday said the nation can achieve 7
percent economic growth this year.  “It’s likely the 7 percent upper end of the government
target will be exceeded,” Tetangco said.  The government’s growth forecast for next year is 6.5
percent to 7.5 percent, said Tetangco, who began working at the
central bank in 1974 as a statistician at the economic research
department and rose to governor in 2005.  Fed Tapering  The Philippines is well-placed to withstand any volatility,
with its current-account surplus and high foreign exchange
reserves, the  Asian Development Bank  said yesterday. Authorities
will need to keep a close eye on credit conditions, with a
possibility that the central bank will tighten monetary policy
next year, the ADB said.  The country will be able to “adjust smoothly” to an
eventual tapering of bond purchases by the Fed, the
 International Monetary Fund  said last month.  Central bank Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo said last
month that the nation is prepared for a possible tapering of the
Fed’s record stimulus with policy measures to deal with capital
outflows. The measures may include boosting dollar and peso
liquidity, careful surveillance of risk, use of forward
guidance, tapping currency-swap agreements, and possible
tightening of monetary policy, he said.  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  Chief Executive Officer  Nazir
Razak  said investors are starting to differentiate Asia’s
 emerging markets  after the sell-down in the past two months on
concerns of the Fed’s tapering.  Eventual Tapering  “For the near-term, we’re probably going to see a little
bit of upturn in the regional markets,” Nazir, whose bank led
Southeast Asia’s stock and bond sales by volume this year,  said
in response to questions after a speech in  Singapore  yesterday.
“But in the long-term, one needs to prepare for the eventuality
of tapering.”  In the Philippines, Aquino is raising spending to a record
this year and seeking more than $17 billion of investment in
roads and airports.  Fitch Ratings  and Standard and Poor’s
awarded the Philippines its first investment-grade scores
earlier this year. Moody’s Investors Service upgraded its rating
on the Philippines today, completing the country’s ascent to an
investment rank.  “We have room to continue to support the economy given the
benign inflation,” Tetangco said in the interview. “Thus we’ve
been able to maintain  interest rates  at historically low levels
without fanning inflation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  