-- Etihad Closes In on Jet Orders as Emirates Lines Up 777Xs
-- B y   J a s o n   F o l k m a n i s   a n d   D e e n a   K a m e l
-- 2013-10-02T09:56:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/etihad-closes-in-on-jet-orders-as-emirates-lines-up-777x-splurge.html
Etihad Airways  is evaluating orders
for a range of aircraft from  Boeing Co. (BA)  and  Airbus SAS (EAD)  after
Gulf rival Emirates said it’s planning an “enormous” contract
for the U.S. company’s new 777X model.  Abu Dhabi-based Etihad is talking with manufacturers about
jetliners that would meet its fleet requirements beyond 2020,
Chief Commercial Officer Peter Baumgartner said today in Vietnam
following the carrier’s inaugural flight there.  “We are in discussion with both manufacturers pretty much
right across their entire portfolio of aircraft,” Baumgartner
told reporters in Ho Chi Minh City.  Etihad and Emirates, together with Qatar Airways Ltd., are
building immense wide-body fleets as they compete to turn their
bases into hubs for long-haul transfer flights. Unlike its Gulf
rivals, Etihad has also taken minority stakes in a range of
smaller carriers, and Baumgartner said that a planned investment
in  Jet Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN)  is approaching final hurdles.  At Emirates, President  Tim Clark  said yesterday in Milan
that the world’s biggest airline by international traffic is
looking at an order to replace 175 twin-engine 777 wide-bodies
that the carrier has in its fleet or awaiting delivery.  Boeing’s 777X model, which will feature an enlarged wing,
upgraded engines and a longer fuselage carrying as many as 400
passengers, is “getting close to where we want it,” Clark
said, with Emirates now negotiating commercial terms for a deal
that could come as early as next month’s Dubai Air Show.  A380s, Dreamliners  Baumgartner declined to say whether the new plane, which
still requires final approval from the Boeing board, could play
a role at Etihad, which had 16 777-300ERs in its fleet as of
July and three more due for delivery by the end of next year.  “Regarding the 777X, we don’t disclose at the moment where
we are with discussion with the manufacturers,” he said. The
larger of two planned variants, the -9X, has a list price of
more than $340 million, based on a recent Deutsche Lufthansa AG
order, Sterne, Agee & Leach Inc. analyst  Peter Arment  has said.  Etihad was operating 78 passenger and cargo jets in July,
including 22 Airbus A330 wide-bodies and 12 A340s, and it has
orders for 10 A380 superjumbos and 12 A350s -- a competitor to
the 777 -- together with 41 smaller 787 Dreamliners from Boeing,
with the fleet due to reach 159 planes by 2020. Emirates has
about 200 aircraft and orders that would take the total to 400,
excluding retirements, even before a purchase of the 777X.  Etihad Chief Executive Officer  James Hogan  said in August
that the company is also exploring common procurement programs
with the carriers in which it has minority stakes, and that
coming aircraft orders could feature a “group deal.”  India Hurdles  Etihad has holdings in  Air Berlin Plc (AB1) ,  Virgin Australia
Holdings Ltd. (VAH) ,  Aer Lingus Group Plc (AERL) , Serbia’s Jat Airways and
Air Seychelles Ltd. The carriers together have a global fleet
exceeding 500 aircraft, according to a slide Hogan showed at the
CAPA Australia Pacific Aviation Summit in Sydney.  In  India , Etihad faces a “couple of final regulatory
hurdles” to securing the investment in Jet, the nation’s
biggest publicly traded airline, Baumgartner said, adding that
there is “some more work to be done, but we are confident.”  Asked whether his company will bid for a stake in Rome-based Alitalia SpA, where a share lockup is ending and partner
 Air France-KLM Group (AF)  owns a 25 percent stake, he said that there
is “nothing to comment on” at this stage, though Etihad
remains open to new deals.  “We are certainly not closed for future partnerships if
these partnerships make commercial sense,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City  at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net ;
Deena Kamel Yousef in Dubai at 
 dhussein1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
John Boudreau at   jboudreau3@bloomberg.net  