-- EU Says Bank-Failure Proposal Shouldn’t Loosen State-Aid Rules
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-10-02T08:07:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/eu-says-bank-failure-proposal-shouldn-t-loosen-state-aid-rules.html
Euro-area  banks  that receive money
from a planned central system for handling failing lenders
should face the same state-aid rules as those that get support
from national governments, according to a working paper drawn up
by the European Commission.  EU officials will seek to ensure that interventions at
crisis-hit banks by the proposed Single Resolution Mechanism are
covered by the same “substantive” requirements as national
measures, according to the document obtained by Bloomberg News.
Under EU state-aid rules, the commission must determine whether
government subsidies give a company unfair advantage over
competitors and can demand repayment.  “There would be a real risk of perpetuating or
exacerbating distortions of competition if banks in resolution
were treated differently depending on whether any public support
which they obtained were received from the SRM or from a member
state,” according to the paper, which the commission, the EU’s
executive arm, prepared for a meeting of national diplomats in
Brussels today. There would be a risk that banks receiving SRM
aid could get it on a “less onerous” basis.  The resolution plan is part of a bid by the euro area to
break financial links between sovereigns and banks by
centralizing oversight and crisis management of failing lenders.
EU financial-services chief Michel Barnier’s blueprint met a
German-led attack at a meeting last month of the bloc’s finance
ministers.  German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said the
commission’s proposal must be overhauled because it’s on shaky
legal ground and could endanger national control of budgets.  Barnier’s plan requires approval by a weighted majority of
national governments and by the European Parliament before it
can take effect.  Lawmakers should make it clear in the SRM plan that similar
state-aid rules would apply, according to the note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  