-- EU Swaps Platforms in Limbo as CFTC Closed on Deadline Day
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-10-02T15:56:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/eu-swaps-platforms-in-limbo-as-cftc-closed-on-deadline-day.html
European Union attempts to win
exemptions from U.S. rules for swaps trading platforms that take
effect today have been hampered by the partial shutdown of the
American government.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, was
unable to broker a deal with the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission ahead of a budget standoff that’s left many
government offices shuttered.  “I remain confident in our common capacity to find a
definitive agreement,” Barnier said in an interview today. What
is required is “to confirm and clarify,” a broader deal
reached by the Commission and CFTC in July.  The CFTC is overseeing the new platforms as part of an
effort required under the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act to bring greater
competition and transparency to swaps traded by firms including
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Barclays Plc. (BARC) 
Largely unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis
and led to the $182.5 billion taxpayer-rescue of insurer
American International Group Inc.  “European liquidity is being hit by U.S. regulatory
uncertainty,” Sassan Danesh, Co-Chair of the Global Fixed
Income Committee at FIX Trading, said in an interview.  Gary Gensler , the CFTC’s chairman, has held firm on the
Oct. 2 deadline for Sefs to register with regulators, while the
agency has granted temporary delays related to some other
aspects of the swaps rules.  ‘Clearly Problematic’  The situation “is clearly problematic, as American rules
on Sef registration will enter into force today and we haven’t
received at this stage meaningful relief for European
companies,” Barnier’s spokeswoman  Chantal Hughes  told reporters
in Brussels today, referring to the U.S. standards on swap-execution facilities, or Sefs.  “At technical official level there is no contact at this
point in time, but there is contact at more senior political
levels,” Hughes said. “The CFTC is indeed closed.”  Barnier wrote to Gensler this week urging the U.S. to delay
the registration requirements until March to avoid disruptions
in the $633 trillion global market and to give the EU time to
complete work on its own legislation. He told Gensler the EU is
concerned that its firms could face overlapping rules that
ultimately could lead to a balkanization of financial markets.
Hughes said Gensler hasn’t yet replied.  Big Players  The risk arising from the U.S. rules is that “some
European platforms may not wish to trade with American
counterparties,” Danesh said. “It’s a big deal.”  “For example, taking a U.S. broker such as JPMorgan,
that’s a big player: if they stop trading on European platforms
how much liquidity will drop off?,” Danesh said.  The CFTC completed rules governing swaps transactions in
May. Today’s deadline is for companies to register with the U.S.
as offering Sef services, and in doing so to accept American
regulations.  “We can’t of course tell European companies exactly or
directly what they should do with respect to the American rules,
which are coming into force today,” Hughes said.  “In practice, we don’t expect trading to stop overnight,
but the effect is likely be less transparency, liquidity
fragmentation and higher funding costs with potential impacts on
the real economy,” Hughes said.  Calls to the CFTC today went through to an automated
answering service.  A Sef proposed by Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP is
among venues -- including those from IntercontinentalExchange
Inc.,  MarketAxess Holdings Inc. (MKTX)  and Javelin Capital Markets LLC
-- that have won temporary approval from the CFTC, according to
the regulator’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  