-- EU Shouldn’t Shut Door to Bank Nationalization, Lawmaker Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-10-02T09:16:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/eu-shouldn-t-shut-door-to-bank-nationalization-lawmaker-says.html
 European Union plans to write down
creditors at failing banks shouldn’t prevent governments from
taking them over if needed to prevent a crisis, according to the
European Parliament’s lead negotiator on the proposal.  Gunnar Hoekmark, a Swedish member of the parliament’s
 Christian Democrat  group, said that he was opposed to an
agreement by EU finance ministers always to require unsecured
creditor writedowns before public funds can be used. In the case
of some systemically important lenders, the right approach may
be for a government to temporarily “take over the bank,” he
said.  “It’s important to fight the presumption that governments
will intervene, but I don’t want to preclude that governments
can step in,” Hoekmark said in an interview in Brussels.
“That’s why I want specified criteria. And I have question
marks about the solution that council achieved,” Hoekmark said,
referring to the EU institution that represents national
governments.  The EU has set itself a year-end deadline to agree on bank-failure rules, known as the Bank Recovery and Resolution
Directive, which the bloc’s leaders have said should be a
stepping stone to further moves by the euro area to centralize
oversight and crisis management of lenders.  Under the ministers’  June 27 agreement , 8 percent of a
distressed bank’s liabilities must be wiped out before recourse
can be made to other measures. Talks have begun with the
European Parliament, whose approval is needed before the rules
can take effect.  ‘Critical Situation’  “If you are in a very critical situation, and carry out
bail-in of 8 percent, this would have a very small impact in a
country with a small banking sector, but a very big impact in a
country with a relatively big banking sector,” Hoekmark said.
“What is maybe very good or relevant, for example, for  Denmark ,
could be draconian for the Netherlands.”  “For me, it’s a little bit difficult to understand why it
seems a number of governments are eager to take away their
opportunities to act as a government in a systemic crisis,” he
said. “I want clear criteria for when governments can act. But
I want them to be able to act.”  Other issues in the compromise talks between the parliament
and governments include the size of bank-financed funds that
nations would be required to maintain, on the basis they could
be tapped to support failing banks.  “We are discussing the level of funding in the resolution
funds. The parliament has supported a higher level, the Council
a lower level,” Hoekmark said. Parliament is “skeptical”
about government plans to allow these funds to siphon resources
from national deposit-guarantee schemes, he said.  “Parliament’s position is that DGS should be there for
when depositors really need it,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  