-- European Stocks Drop as Hochtief Plunges Following Report
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-10-02T16:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/europe-stock-futures-little-changed-gdf-suez-may-advance.html
European stocks  declined the most in
more than a month as the shutdown of the U.S. federal government
entered its second day.  Hochtief AG slumped 7.9 percent after the Sydney Morning
Herald reported allegations of corruption at the company’s
Australian business. KappAhl AB dropped 9.8 percent after the
clothing retailer proposed paying no dividend this financial
year. Portugal Telecom SGPS SA jumped the most in almost four
months after agreeing to merge with  Brazil ’s Oi SA to form a
network operator with 100 million subscribers.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped 0.7 percent to 310.79 at
the close in London, its biggest slide since Aug. 30. The equity
benchmark jumped 0.8 percent yesterday as a senior minister in
Silvio Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party said that lawmakers
should vote for the incumbent prime minister in today’s
confidence vote.  “With no progress and two sides implacably opposed to each
other, the U.S. situation is still of the utmost importance,”
Jeremy Batstone-Carr, head of research at Charles Stanley Group
Plc in London, said in a telephone interview. “It is right that
the markets send a signal to lawmakers that procrastination is
not an option.”  The U.S. government began its first partial shutdown in 17
years yesterday as Republicans and Democrats failed to agree on
a compromise budget to keep the federal government open into the
new financial year. As many as 800,000 federal employees didn’t
work and the government closed some services.  Government Shutdown  “Further improvements in corporate confidence could be
negatively impacted by the U.S. government shutdown, but it very
much depends on how long the Democrat and Republican impasse
will last,” James Butterfill, who helps manage about $44
billion as head of global equity strategy at Coutts & Co. in
 London , wrote in an e-mail.  U.S. politicians also need to reach a deal to increase the
federal government’s $16.7 trillion  debt limit . Treasury
Secretary Jacob J. Lew said in a letter yesterday that the U.S.
will exhaust its extraordinary measures to avoid breaching the
limit on Oct. 17 at the latest.  European Central Bank policy makers meeting in Paris left
their benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at a record low of 0.5
percent. That matched the forecasts of all 52 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. ECB President Mario Draghi refrained
from saying that the euro area needs further help from the
central bank to support its economic recovery.  National benchmark indexes retreated in 12 of the 18
western-European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 fell 0.4 percent,
 Germany ’s DAX lost 0.7 percent and  France ’s CAC 40 Index
retreated 0.9 percent.  Italian Equities  Italy’s FTSE MIB added 0.7 percent as Prime Minister Enrico Letta won a confidence vote in parliament. During a debate
before the vote, Berlusconi said that he would support Letta.
The former premier had withdrawn the People of Liberty’s five
ministers from the cabinet on Sept. 28, prompting Letta to call
today’s vote in an attempt to rebuild a parliamentary majority.  Hochtief slid 7.9 percent to 60.20 euros after the Sydney
Morning Herald reported allegations of corruption at its
Australian construction unit Leighton Holdings Ltd. The
newspaper cited internal company files. Hochtief spokesman
Christian Gerhardus declined to comment to  Bloomberg News (EURR002W)  on the
Australian newspaper’s report.  KappAhl slumped 9.8 percent to 38.80 kronor after it
proposed paying no dividend. The company also announced fiscal
fourth-quarter net income of 7 million kronor ($1.1 million).  Jeronimo Martins SGPS SA lost 1.9 percent to 14.31 euros
after  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  reported that same-store sales in  Poland  dropped
6.4 percent in the first half of its financial year. The
Portuguese retailer generated 60 percent of its revenue from the
east European country in 2012.  Portugal Telecom  Portugal’s  PSI 20 Index (PSI20)  gained 0.9 percent as Portugal
Telecom, which accounts for 11 percent of the  benchmark measure ,
surged 6.5 percent to 3.62 euros. The country’s largest phone
company said that the merger will generate additional revenue
and savings from cost cutting totaling 1.8 billion euros ($2.5
billion). “The merger will consolidate the position of both
companies as the leading operator for Portuguese-speaking
countries,” Portugal Telecom said in a statement.  Banco Espirito Santo SA jumped 4 percent to 84 euro cents.
The lender owns a 10 percent stake in Portugal Telecom,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA,  Italy ’s second-biggest bank, jumped
4.7 percent to 1.69 euros. Societe Generale SA, France’s second-largest bank, gained 2.5 percent to 38.80 euros.  MorphoSys AG climbed 7.2 percent to 61.35 euros after
saying that Novartis AG had triggered a milestone payment for
the company by starting a clinical trial.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  