-- Euro Rallies as Draghi Refrains From Added Measures; Yen Rises
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-10-02T21:16:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/euro-strengthens-as-draghi-refrains-from-new-measures-yen-rises.html
The euro strengthened the most in two
weeks against the dollar after European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  refrained from signaling that additional measures
were needed to boost the region’s recovery.  The 17-nation currency advanced versus all except two of
its 16 major counterparts after Italian Prime Minister Enrico
Letta won a confidence vote in parliament, avoiding the need for
another election. The yen rose for a second day against the
dollar as U.S. lawmakers made no progress toward resolving a
partial government shutdown and an industry report showed
American companies added fewer workers than economists forecast.
 Australia ’s dollar fell as the nation reported a trade deficit.  “It doesn’t seem like there’s any action imminent, even
though he did mention that all options are on the table,” Eric Viloria, senior currency strategist for Gain Capital Group LLC
in  New York , said in a telephone interview, referring to Draghi
and the ECB. “We had a weaker-than-expected ADP number out of
the U.S. and that just reinforced the Fed’s decision to delay
tapering.”  The euro advanced 0.4 percent to $1.3579 at 5 p.m. in New
York, reaching the biggest one-day gain since Sept. 18. The
single currency was 0.3 percent weaker at 132.20 yen after
falling as much as 0.9 percent. The yen strengthened 0.7 percent
to 97.36 per dollar.  Rand, Real  South Africa ’s currency rallied against the dollar. The
nation’s bonds fell for a second day, driving yields to two-week
highs, on speculation slowing growth is limiting the  Reserve
Bank ’s room to combat rising prices. The rand gained 1.1 percent
to 10.0168 per dollar.  Brazil ’s real rose to a one-week high on speculation the
 Federal Reserve  will sustain a stimulus program that has
supported emerging-market assets. The currency appreciated 1.1
percent to 2.1917 per dollar.  Draghi spoke in Paris after the ECB’s Governing Council
left its main refinancing rate at a record low of 0.5 percent
for a fifth month. The decision was predicted by all 52
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  “Real GDP growth in the second quarter was positive, after
six quarters of negative output growth, and confidence
indicators up to September confirm the expected gradual
improvement in economic activity from low levels,” Draghi said.
“The overall improvements in financial markets seen since last
summer appear to be gradually working their way through to the
real economy.”  The ECB kept its benchmark at 0.5 percent as predicted by
all 52 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  ECB Policy  “The fact that he isn’t taking action today is propelling
euro-dollar higher,” said Jane Foley, senior currency
strategist at Rabobank International in  London . “If Draghi was
to play a key policy card today it could be lost against the
tide of dollar weakness.”  The euro was also boosted after former premier Italian
Silvio Berlusconi backtracked on a pledge to bring down the
government as his own party showed signs of deserting him.  Letta’s government had teetered on the verge of collapse
after Berlusconi’s decision last week to withdraw support for
the coalition, prompting the prime minister to call the ballot.  The euro has strengthened 5.6 percent this year, the best
performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar appreciated
2.3 percent, while the yen tumbled 10 percent.  Yen Strength  The yen rose versus most its 16 major peers after U.S.
Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said yesterday the nation has
begun using final extraordinary measures to avoid breaching the
debt limit, spurring demand for the safety of  Japan ’s currency.  U.S. companies hired 166,000 workers last month following a
revised 159,000 increase in August that was smaller than
initially estimated, according to the ADP Research Institute.
The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for
an advance of 180,000.  The yen was also supported after Japanese Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe yesterday introduced tax breaks for companies
together with a 5-trillion-yen ($50 billion) program to boost
growth.  “Up until Abe’s speech yesterday, the markets were a bit
cautious of selling the dollar ahead of that event,” said  Derek Halpenny , European head of global-markets research at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London. “The Congress was a
dollar-sell story, but the event risk in terms of the Abe speech
made the markets a little bit cautious and we’ve now had that
removed.”  Currency Forecast  The yen will weaken to 103 per dollar by year-end, Halpenny
said. Japan’s currency will trade at 102 by Dec. 31 and 105 by
the middle of 2014, according to the median estimate of
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  Australia’s currency fell versus most its 16 major peers
after reports showed the nation had a trade deficit in August
and building approvals climbed less than economists forecast.
The Aussie advanced yesterday after the  Reserve Bank of
Australia  kept borrowing costs unchanged.  “The economy is still going to need to do more work and
that’s where the RBA has to come into the equation with
additional interest-rate cuts,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a
currency strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in  Singapore .
“That’s got to probably weigh on Aussie-dollar sentiment.”  The Australian dollar declined 0.1 percent to 93.85 U.S.
cents after climbing to 94.35 yesterday, the strongest level
since Sept. 23.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $29 billion, compared with $22 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $8.3 billion, the
largest share of trades at 28 percent. Options on the euro-dollar rate totaled $3.8 billion, or 13 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 85 percent more than the
average for the past five Wednesdays at a similar time in the
day, according to Bloomberg analysis. Euro-dollar options
trading was 6 percent more than average.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  