-- European Central Bank President Draghi News Conference (Text)
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2013-10-02T14:54:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/european-central-bank-president-draghi-news-conference-text-.html
Following is a transcript of European
Central Bank President Mario Draghi’s comments from his monthly
news conference in Paris today.  MARIO DRAGHI, PRESIDENT, EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK: Ladies and
gentlemen, the vice president and I are very pleased to welcome
you to our press conference. I would like to thank Governor
Noyer for his kind hospitality and express our special gratitude
to his staff for the excellent organization of today’s meeting
of the Governing Council. We will now report on the outcome of
today’s meeting, which was also attended by the commission vice
president, Mr. Rehn.  Based on our regular economic and monetary analyses, we
decided to keep the key ECB interest rates unchanged. Incoming
information and analysis have further underpinned our previous
assessment. Underlying price pressures in the euro area are
expected to remain subdued over the medium term.  In keeping with this picture, monetary and, in particular,
credit dynamics remain subdued. Inflation expectations for the
euro area continue to be firmly anchored in line with our aim of
maintaining inflation rates below, but close to 2 percent over
the medium term.  At the same time, real GDP growth in the second quarter was
positive, after six quarters of negative output growth, and
confidence indicators up to September confirm the expected
gradual improvement in economic activity from low levels.  Our monetary policy stance continues to be geared towards
maintaining the degree of monetary accommodation warranted by
the outlook for price stability and promoting stable money
market conditions. It thereby provides support to a gradual
recovery in economic activity.  Looking ahead, our monetary policy stance will remain
accommodative for as long as necessary, in line with the forward
guidance provided in July. The Governing Council confirms that
it expects the key ECB interest rates to remain at present or
lower levels for an extended period of time. This expectation
continues to be based on an unchanged overall subdued outlook
for inflation extending into the medium term, given the broad-based weakness in the economy and subdued monetary dynamics.  In the period ahead, we will monitor all incoming
information on economic and monetary developments and assess any
impact on the medium-term outlook for price stability. With
regard to money market conditions, we will remain particularly
attentive to developments which may have implications for the
stance of monetary policy and are ready to consider all
available instruments.  Let me now explain our assessment in greater detail,
starting with the economic analysis. Following six quarters of
negative output growth, euro area real GDP rose quarter on
quarter by 0.3 percent in the second quarter of 2013, also
supported by temporary factors related to usually adverse --
unusually adverse weather conditions in some euro area countries
earlier this year.  Developments in industrial production data point to
somewhat weaker growth at the beginning of the third quarter,
while survey-based confidence indicators up to September have
improved further from low levels, overall confirming our
previous expectations of a gradual recovery in economic
activity.  Looking ahead, output is expected to recover at a slow
pace, in particular owing to a gradual improvement in domestic
demand, supported by the accommodative monetary policy stance.
Euro area economic activity should, in addition, benefit from a
gradual strengthening of external demand for exports.  Furthermore, the overall improvements in financial markets
seen since last summer appear to be gradually working their way
through to the real economy, as should the progress made in
fiscal consolidation. In addition, real incomes have benefited
recently from generally lower inflation. This being said,
unemployment in the euro area remains high, and the necessary
balance sheet adjustments in the public and private sectors will
continue to weigh on economic activity.  The risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro
area continue to be on the downside. Developments in global
money and financial market conditions and related uncertainties
may have the potential to negatively affect economic conditions.
Other downside risks include higher commodity prices in the
context of renewed geopolitical tensions, weaker than expected
global demand, and slow or insufficient implementation of
structural reforms in euro area countries.  According to Eurostat’s flash estimate, and broadly in line
with expectations, euro area annual HICP inflation decreased in
September 2013 to 1.1 percent from 1.3 percent in August. On the
basis of current futures prices for energy, annual inflation
rates are expected to remain at such low levels in the coming
months.  Taking the appropriate medium-term perspective, underlying
price pressures are expected to remain subdued, reflecting the
broad-based weakness in aggregate demand and the modest pace of
the recovery. Medium- to long-term inflation expectations
continue to be firmly anchored in line with price stability.  The risks to the outlook for price developments are
expected to be still broadly balanced over the medium term, with
upside risks relating in particular to higher commodity prices,
as well as stronger-than-expected increases in administered
prices and indirect taxes and downside risks stemming from
weaker-than-expected economic activity.  Turning to the monetary analysis, data for August indicate
that the underlying growth of broad money, M3, and, in
particular, credit remained subdued. Annual growth in M3
continued to be broadly stable at 2.3 percent in August,
compared with 2.2 percent in July. Annual growth in M1 remained
strong, but decreased to 6.8 percent in August, from 7.1 percent
in July.  Net capital inflows into the euro area continued to be the
main factor supporting annual M3 growth, while the annual rate
of change of loans to the private sector remained weak. The
annual growth rate of loans to households stood at 0.4 percent
in August, broadly unchanged since the turn of the year. The
annual rate of change of loans to non-financial corporations was
minus 2.9 percent in August, compared with minus 2.8 percent in
July. Weak loan dynamics for non-financial corporations continue
to reflect primarily their lagged relationship with the business
cycle, credit risk, and the ongoing adjustment of financial and
non-financial sector balance sheets.  Since the summer of 2012, substantial progress has been
made in improving the funding situation of banks and, in
particular, in strengthening the domestic deposit base in a
number of stressed countries.  In order to ensure an adequate transmission of monetary
policy to the financial -- to the financing conditions in euro
area countries, it is essential that the fragmentation of euro -
- euro area credit markets declines further and that the
resilience of banks is strengthened where needed. Further
decisive steps to establish a banking union will help to
accomplish this objective.  To sum up, the economic analysis indicates that price
developments should remain in line with price stability over the
medium term. A cross-check with the signals from the monetary
analysis confirms this picture.  As regards fiscal policies, euro area countries should not
unravel their efforts to reduce deficits and put high government
debt ratios on a downward path. The draft budgetary plans that
countries will now deliver for the first time under the two-pack
regulations need to provide for sufficiently far-reaching
measures to achieve the fiscal targets for 2014.  Governments must also decisively strengthen efforts to
implement the needed structural reforms in product and labor
markets. These reforms are required not only to help countries
to regain competitiveness and to rebalance within the euro area,
but also to create more flexible and dynamic economies that
generate sustainable economic growth and employment.  We are now at your disposal for questions.  STAFF: To enable as many questions as possible, we’ll take
two per person, and we’ll start with Ingrid Melander from
Reuters.  QUESTION: Thank you. It’s about the euro exchange rate.
It’s as high relative to the dollar or on a trade-weighted basis
as it was in February, when you warned that the strong euro
could have downside risks to recovery. I was wondering why there
was no warning this time and what you think of the current
exchange rate.  DRAGHI: As you know, the exchange rate is not a policy
target for the ECB. The target for the ECB is medium-term price
stability. However, the exchange rate is important for growth
and for price stability. And we are certainly attentive to these
developments.  Thank you.  STAFF: Michael Steen, FT.  QUESTION: Hi, Mr. Draghi. The -- you said in your
introductory statement that -- in terms of money markets, you
were prepared to use all available instruments. Why not then cut
-- narrow the corridor between the refinancing rates and the
deposit rate, as I think Mr. Pratt suggested in an interview
with Les Echos on the 16th of September?  And the second separate question about the single
supervisory mechanism, you’ve said in the past that you’re
confident that there will be backstops in place before the ECB
formally takes over. It strikes me we’re not quite there yet.
Can you outline how that is actually going to happen by next
October?  Thanks.  DRAGHI: Thank you. Now, you’re asking in an indirect way
whether we discussed an interest rate cut, which would narrow
the corridor. In fact, I mean, there was a discussion, and as
last time, some governments -- some governors observed that
improvements in the economy would not justify this discussion,
but other governors believe that the discussion was warranted.
In the end, we decided to leave interest rates as -- at the
present level.  Having said that, let me just -- on the broader
developments of liquidity, let me just restate what I said in
parliament, in the European Parliament, because it’s quite
telling. Well, I can’t find the precise quote, but basically --
basically, what I said is that we have -- we are ready to use
all available instruments, including an LTRO, to make sure the
short-term money market rates development are in line with our
medium-term assessment of price stability. And so as I said, we
have a vast array of instruments to this extent. And we exclude
no option in order to address the needs as it is most
appropriate.  On the backstops, that’s another thing -- that’s another
thing that quite astonishes me. As the doubts that have been
expressed about whether backstops -- national backstops will be
in place by the time we start our SSM. In fact, there is an
explicit reassurance about this in the conclusion of the last
European Council, where there’s an explicit reference to
national backstops.  But let me add something that is a more recent development,
where I can quote the vice president of the European Commission
on this point. And it basically said that since capital
injections would normally be regarded as one-off measures, they
would normally not count against the member state in the context
of the excessive deficit procedure.  So I think this is quite -- it’s quite relevant, because it
shows the general determination to have the backstops in place
by the time the SSM would take charge. Thank you.  STAFF: Brian Blackstone, Wall Street Journal?  QUESTION: Brian Blackstone with the Wall Street Journal. I
just wanted to ask you a little bit more about inflation. So the
inflation rate now is 1.1 percent. Your own staff forecasted for
1.3 percent next year. How is this consistent with any
definition of price stability for the -- for the ECB?  And are
you at risk of -- of underdelivering on your target?  And another question on interest rates. You have this
easing bias in place since July. You seem to be talking about
interest rate cuts monthly. What would it take to move the ball
forward and actually deliver an interest rate cut, which would
seem to be justified, at least on inflation grounds?  Thank you.  DRAGHI: Thank you. On your first question, the -- the
inflation path is developing as was expected. Our baseline
scenario is confirmed, and we see inflation as remaining subdued
on the low level -- on the low side, on the very low side of 2
percent, and we see this as extending into the medium term.  In -- we view this as a combination of several factors,
energy prices, the tax increases -- the indirect tax increases
which are there, at least for the time being, food prices, but
also certainly the appreciation of the exchange rate and the
general economic conditions.  So we will be monitoring closely these developments. And
we’ll have to look through the medium term in order to assess
the outlook. And here I answer to the second question, as well,
and decide about further action on the front of interest rates,
or, as I said before, on any other instrument that is available.  STAFF: (inaudible)  QUESTION: (inaudible) Business. Sir, you say -- you said
substantial progress has been made in improving the founding
situation of banks. For eurozone bank, how to treat sovereign
bonds in its next balance sheet test?  Some governors of central
banks in eurozone can be opposed to writing down the value of
these bonds to reflect their risks.  DRAGHI: Communication on the -- precise communication on
the asset quality review will be -- will be given in the second
part of the month of October, in the second half of October. Let
me say that current opinions about -- about different riskiness
of government bonds are what they are, namely personal opinions,
which address a clear issue, different riskiness of government
bonds. But let me also say that no action is being envisaged or
no policy has ever been discussed by the Governing Council to
this extent. Thank you.  STAFF: Joanna Treeck, Market News?  QUESTION: Mr. Draghi, to what extent could the
harmonization of definitions and provisioning for nonperforming
loans as part of the asset quality review increase
fragmentation?  And which countries might be particularly
affected as a result of that?  My second question is, what are the chances that credit is
actually going to improve before the conclusion of the asset
quality review and the stress tests?  DRAGHI: I’m sorry. What is the -- what’s the chance -- can
you repeat the second question?  QUESTION: What are the chances that credit could actually
recover and pick up before the conclusion of the stress tests
and the quality review, which might be well into next year?  And
what does that mean for the recovery?  DRAGHI: Well, let me say immediately to the second question
that we have, frankly, strong hopes that credit will recover
before the end of the asset quality review. I mean, we’ll be in
very, very bad shape if credit were not to recover by then.  The asset quality review and the stress tests are foreseen
to be concluded before we take over as SSM, before the ECB takes
over the SSM, which means by almost the end of next year, and by
then, we all -- I think we -- I, the Governing Council,
collectively strongly hope that credit will have recovered by
then.  On -- on the -- on the first point, there are -- you’re
right, there are many definitions of nonperforming loans, and we
will have to harmonize these definitions and be rigorous.  The whole exercise of the asset quality review and the
balance sheet assessment and the stress tests make sense only if
they are credible. To be credible, they have to be transparent
and rigorous. Otherwise, they are useless. And I can only
confirm that the -- the will of the Governing Council and of the
supervisors is to decide policies, take decisions in the coming
months along these guidelines, namely to be transparent and
rigorous.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)  DRAGHI: I don’t think so. To shed light on the banking
system does not increase fragmentation by itself. It’s fear.
It’s uncertainty that has produced fragmentation. So I think it
will have just the opposite effect.  And I don’t expect major disasters, but it’s quite
important that full light be shed and full transparency be
there. And that would certainly decrease fragmentation, rather
than increasing it. Thank you.  STAFF: (inaudible)  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) economists, including IMF economists,
Peterson Institute economists, and many more think that at its
current level the euro is overvalued for most of the euro area
economy. Your usual answer to that is that it’s close to its
long-term average, but that’s a totally different question. By
saying that, you imply that markets always anyway get it right,
whereas we all know they sometimes get it wrong.  And now, according to the article 219 of the treaty, the
ECB can make a recommendation to the European Council about this
issue, while respecting the objective of price stability. So my
question is, why don’t you?  From some countries in the euro
area, it looks like you pick the articles you want to apply and
the articles that you don’t want to apply.  DRAGHI: Thank you. I’m sorry?  Peter?  No, please. Please.  (UNKNOWN): No, I’m just going to correct you a little bit.
The article talks about changes in the regime, not on the levels
of exchange rates. And the regime is approved -- the euro is a
floating currency. And there is no -- no discussion whatsoever
or willingness from anyone to change that regime. And that’s
what the treaty says. It’s not about current discussions of
levels of interest rates, which could not be achieved, per se,
in a regime of floating currencies by definition.  STAFF: (inaudible)  (UNKNOWN): We respect the treaty in all aspects.  STAFF: Stefan Riecher, Bloomberg?  DRAGHI: Thank you.  QUESTION: Good afternoon, Mr. Draghi. First question. On a
more global level, how concerned are you about impact could the
shutdown of the U.S. government and the looming debt ceiling
have on the global economy and the European economy?  Second question. On excess liquidity, you’ve recently
signaled that once excess liquidity goes down to $200 billion or
below, that it might be a problem. Does that limit still hold?
And if not, is there any limit or close to a limit where you
would be concerned about excess liquidity becoming too low?
Thank you.  DRAGHI: Thank you. Well, the U.S. budget shutdown is a risk
if protracted. At the present time, the impression one has is
that it will not be so, but (inaudible) if it were to be
protracted, it’s certainly a risk for the U.S. and the world
recovery. And so we have to have this well present to our minds.  On the liquidity, I had -- I had many opportunities to
discuss and explain that the 200 figure, $200 billion figure was
given in a different context. There is no stable relation
between this figure and the behavior of short-term money market
rates.  The figure -- the excess liquidity figure depends on
several factors, one of which is the state of fragmentation. The
bigger is the fragmentation. The higher is the excess liquidity.  And so you can easily accept a lower figure without
expecting any reaction on the money market rates if
fragmentation decreases. In the -- in the, I would say, extreme
version, when you have a fully and perfectly functioning inter-bank market, you have no excess liquidity.  So I would say -- I would urge not to make too much about
two things, about the relation between the excess liquidity and
short-term money market rates, and about the speed of repayment
of the LTRO by the banking system. Thank you.  STAFF: (inaudible) Associated Press?  QUESTION: Hi, over here. I’m wondering if you can give any
more specific guidance on whether there will be another LTRO and
timing. And then, secondly, there was a question about the
budget shutdown, but I’m wondering what the effect of a U.S.
default would be on the European economy.  DRAGHI: You’re wondering what?  QUESTION: If you see the prospect of a U.S. default and
what that would -- what effect that would have.  DRAGHI: No, the second question is easy to answer. I don’t.
But on the first question, here I have the famous quote. We are
ready to use any instrument, including another LTRO if needed,
to maintain the short-term money market rates at the level which
is warranted by our assessment of following is the medium term.
It’s about what I said before, so I still remember things. And
which means basically that we exclude no option and we are ready
to act according to need.  So having said that -- that’s just one of our instruments -
- but having said that, let me just say one thing, that the
fixed-rate full allotment policy will be in place at least until
July 2014. So the intention of the Governing Council is to
provide liquidity insurance to banks and to the banking system
in Europe.  If I have to summarize what is the view of the Governing
Council with respect to liquidity, I would say that nobody wants
to have a liquidity accident standing between now and the
recovery. And, second, liquidity ought to be provided to the
banking system as needed, but it should not be a replacement for
lack of capital. Thank you.  STAFF: (inaudible)  QUESTION: All right. You mentioned the banking -- yes, it’s
working. No?  Yes. You mentioned the banking union. And
apparently, the mechanism of single resolution is not so easy to
put in place, because especially  Germany  is a bit reluctant. So
-- and the President Hollande apparently yesterday told you to
hurry up a bit. So can you tell us if there is any chance to put
this resolution in place before the next elections of the
parliament in March?  DRAGHI: Well, I definitely expect that. The ECB has
basically -- and the draft proposal by the commission --
contains the three elements which we always believe to be
important, namely a single mechanism, a single authority, and a
single fund financed by the industry, by the banking industry.  So from this viewpoint, substantial progress has been made.
We also believe that 114, article 114 provides a sufficient
basis for the creation of the SRM. Where we may differ is --
from the commission’s proposal is that we view the two moments
of assessing the known viability of a certain banking concern
and deciding which actions should be undertaken as clearly
separated. The ECB and the supervisors, the SSM, would take care
of the first, and the SRM would take care of the second.  Also, the draft proposal on this very same topic gives the
ECB the status of, I believe, a voting member, and we -- the ECB
believes this should not only be an observer, just to make sure
that the two moments are completely separated.  STAFF:  New York  Times?  QUESTION: Yes, David Jolly from the International Herald
Tribune and New York Times. With inflation at 1.1 percent, we’ve
got to be very close to the lower bound of the ECB’s target for
maintaining price stability. Can you tell us what the lower
bound is?  Is there a number that -- when we see it in the
market, we’re going to know that action is forthcoming?  That’s
one question.  The second, if there is another provision of LTRO, would
there be measures included to make sure that the money ends up
in the real economy, as opposed to just being parked by banks in
-- at the ECB. Thank you.  DRAGHI: Thank you. On the second question, I should say
that we have -- as I said before, we have all the array of
instruments available, and we would be using them in order to
respond to the needs as most appropriate. So as I said, LTRO is
just one of them, and when the time will come, we’ll decide what
is the best shape that it could have.  On the first question, I’ve already commented, really. We
view the present inflation -- we -- as a mixture of several
factors. One set of factors relates to prices, energy prices,
food prices, the lack of action on the indirect taxation front
by several countries, after protracted action in the previous
months, and the exchange rate.  Also, there is another set of factors that has to be -- has
to do with the -- with the -- with the present situation -- with
the present state of health of the economy. We view this
recovery -- and I’ve said this last time, and I continue
basically having the same view -- we view this recovery as weak,
as fragile, as uneven, and so it’s -- it’s also that that
contributes certainly to the outlook for price stability.  STAFF: (inaudible)  QUESTION: Mr. President, I know that sometimes you don’t
answer to questions about specific countries like Italy, but
maybe today you have a message to send to the markets just about
what is needed to avoid that -- that destabilizing risks to
growth and to -- to recovery?  DRAGHI: Well, I -- let me say that I can comment on this in
quite general terms. The -- all in all, when you look at periods
of instability -- and we’ve seen them in  Greece , we see them in
Portugal, we see them in Italy now. You see that these countries
-- while instability may be hampering the hopes for a recovery
in these countries, it doesn’t really hurt the eurozone, the
foundations of the eurozone, as it used to do a few years ago.  In other words, the eurozone and the euro is more resilient
today than it was a few years ago. And that has three sets of
reasons. One is that, indeed, substantial progress has been
achieved by governments on the front of fiscal credibility and,
to some extent, also in the front of structural reforms. The
second factor is the ECB response last year with OMT. And the
third factor is that, by and large, the euro governance, the
governance of the euro area has progressed significantly in the
course of 2012. Thank you.  STAFF: (inaudible)  QUESTION: President Draghi, you had the meeting yesterday
with Francois Hollande, President Hollande. It’s the first day
for you in Paris as chairman of the ECB. What’s your -- how do
you regard the reforms in  France  and the budgetary objectives,
directions?  You said it’s too much slow in eurozone. Is it also
your point of view for France?  And small second question. Some members of board of ECB
speak this summer about publishing of the deliberations of the
Governing Council. What’s your position about that?  And for
what time is it possible?  DRAGHI: Thank you. Incidentally, it’s not my first time as
chairman of -- as president of the ECB in Paris, because I went
to the Assemblee Nationale. Yeah, with all the Governing Council
-- yes, yes, yes, absolutely. It’s true. Right. You’re right.  So during the meeting, we basically surveyed the economic
situation of the euro area, the situation of France, the state
of progress of the banking union, in specifically the asset
quality review, the balance sheet assessment, the stress tests,
and the state of preparation of the SSM.  The assessment is the following. I would say there is a
common line for both as far as budgetary policies are concerned
and structural reforms that significant progress has taken place
and more needs to be done. The budgetary figures are -- the
effort of fiscal consolidation has been significant, but still
these figures are above the excessive deficit procedure, so they
-- more needs to be done on that front. And the same message
holds for the structural reforms. Very significant action has
been undertaken, but more needs to be done on several fronts.
Thank you.  Oh, on the minutes. I’m sorry. You rightly called them the
liberations and not used the word minutes, because that is --
that was quite appropriate. I did say on another occasion that
the executive board would present to the Governing Council a
proposal in the fall on this point, and we are still working on
it, and soon we begun -- we will begin discussions on this.  STAFF: (inaudible) CNBC?  QUESTION: Mr. Draghi, I have a question on what happened to
the asset-backed security program. Is there any progress there?
And my second question would be on -- if you consider changing
the risk assessment of certain securities for banks, as well, to
hand in to the ECB’s collateral. Do you envision a scarcity of
collateral sometime in the future?  Thank you.  DRAGHI: Thank you. Now, let me say that the -- credit --
well, talking about different ABS, of course. You have the SME-based ABS, or you have the credit card ABS. The first ones --
the credit card ABS’s are only a small component of our ABS
sector. And this affects the eligibility of about 2.4 billion
euros of collateral, which is about 0.3 percent of the overall
eligible Eurosystem collateral basis.  Well, our recent decision sends two messages. First,
relatively simple ABS with a good record track, such as credit
card, will continue to be recognized and appreciated by the
Eurosystem collateral policy and, second, that our collateral
policy adapts to market developments. I think that’s as far as
ABS are concerned.  We are certainly also ready to consider accepting the
mezzanine tranche of ABS’s as collateral, and the commission and
the EIB are working jointly on trying to help the use of ABS, so
as to foster credit developments in the euro area.  I’m sorry. The SME?  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)  DRAGHI: Yeah, the SME-based ABS. Yes. Yes.  STAFF: (inaudible)  QUESTION: The credit is still very low in the eurozone.
Some analysts speak now from growth without credit. Do we think
it’s -- what -- what is awaiting the eurozone, growth without --
without credit?  DRAGHI: Thank you. Credit -- credit flows are still weak. I
would say even very weak. And even though we see significant
improvement in fragmentation on the funding side for banks, and
the improvements on the lending side, fragmentation, are just
marginal. We see reduction in the dispersion of the lending
costs, on the lending rates, but these are really marginal
developments.  The reason why lending flows -- credit flows are still weak
are complex, and they regard -- they concern both demand and
supply. Clearly, demand factors are important. The -- and to
this extent, credit flows are a lagged indicator of renewed
growth.  So demand factors are important. Heightened risk aversion
is another factor which is very important. And I think the more
we proceed, the more the recovery will gradually develop, the
more our accommodative monetary policy stance will find its way
through the economy, the more we will see these two factors
really playing the greatest role with the funding side playing
less and less of a role, especially since what I’ve said before
that the ECB will continue providing the liquidity as needed.
Thank you.  STAFF: (inaudible)  QUESTION: Yes, I have a question again on political
instability. You’ve mentioned a few countries. Now Germany is
also without a full functioning government for some time. Do you
expect that it may delay the prospect for banking union, in
particular the regulation regarding the SSM?  And you think that
there will still be feasible to have that in place by the
beginning of November, which I think was the -- was the plan.
And also, on the resolution mechanism, you think there will be
any delay on that because of political uncertainty, the number
of -- in a number of countries?  The other question is a follow-up on a previous question
and regards the fact that inflation seems to be going away from
your target, not in the direction of your target. And how do you
reconcile that with your statement that monetary policy is
accommodative?  Is that maybe it’s not accommodative enough?  DRAGHI: On the first point, I certainly wish that
everything goes by schedule. So -- and I can’t read enough in --
I don’t expect developments of -- political developments in
several euro area countries to delay the developments on the
SRM. And I don’t have enough visibility on these developments
anyway, as to be able to judge on this -- on this point.  On the inflation side, I have explained this. We have to
look at the medium term assessment of inflation. So far, our
baseline scenario has been confirmed. It’s been underpinned by
all the incoming data. So the present inflation rates are not
unexpected. And I’ve explained the reasons they might have.
Having said that, we certainly look with great attention to
these developments. And I mentioned the factors that impinge,
that affect this inflation.  STAFF: (inaudible)  QUESTION: Yeah, thank you. I would -- I know you don’t
comment on particular countries, but, again, a more general
question on  Italy . We had a major government crisis, but the
interest rates hardly moved. So is this actually a good thing?
And have we, in a way, abolished all the national sovereign
risk?  Or don’t you want to -- and second question, don’t you
want to keep some sort of -- I mean, at least to a certain
extent some sort of national sovereign risk -- sorry, national -
- do you want to keep some sort of reform pressure on
governments coming from the financial markets?  Thank you.  DRAGHI: The -- first, the -- I wouldn’t make too much of
short-term movements of interest rates, but if you had followed
markets, it’s not entirely correct to say that the interest
rates hardly moved. They actually did move.  Second, the -- I think the message that markets are sending
-- the message that not only markets -- I think all of you would
send the same message -- to countries, the countries that we
mentioned, the messages are very simple, stability and reforms.
I think these are the messages that markets, if we want to use
this sort of abstract definition, but I’m sure that all of us
would send exactly the same message, stability and reforms.  Finally, market pressure to reform is simply one of the
many pressures that should urge these countries to reform
themselves, but the greatest pressure should come from inside.
These reforms should be made for their own sake. They don’t need
to be pressed by markets.  Thank you.  STAFF: (inaudible)  QUESTION: Knowing that you’re reluctant to comment on
countries -- and especially in Italy -- I wanted to remember
that two years ago you sent a letter to  Rome  with Mr. Trichet.
So are you worried?  Because you mentioned stability and reforms
at that very moment, minutes ago, so are you worried?  DRAGHI: I think, as I said on other occasions and in other
countries, as far as other countries are concerned, that
significant progress has been achieved, especially on the front
of budget consolidation. And probably this is also one of the
reasons why the instability has produced some movements, but not
dramatic movements.  Also, I mean, political crisis have their own times. You
would expect market reactions to bet on an outcome even before
knowing how the political crisis would evolve. And rightly so,
markets want to have -- want to analyze the situation before
making their bets.  So progress has been achieved. This -- and it’s been -- we
shouldn’t focus only on one individual country. Progress has
been taking place all across the board, and this has
strengthened the euro area, as I was saying before.  STAFF: (inaudible)  QUESTION: (inaudible) German television. Mr. President, I
would like to touch on a question of my French and Italian
colleagues. We see...  DRAGHI: I’m sorry. I can’t -- I don’t seem to -- oh, there
you are. OK.  QUESTION: We can, indeed, see quite some significant
improvements in some of the smaller countries, which were at the
core of the euro crisis at the beginning. On the other hand, we
see quite some severe economic problems, for example, in this
country that Noyer has touched on in former statements, but also
in Italy.  And some people now argue that we currently have a kind of
transformation, a kind of shift of the pattern of the crisis
away from the smaller countries, more to the bigger central
countries of the union. Do you share this thesis?  And if so,
would you say that those countries are aware of the
responsibility that they have not to accelerate, not to steer up
the crisis again?  Thank you.  DRAGHI: Thank you. No, I don’t see a shift of crisis for
small to large countries. What I see is -- and I have to repeat
here what I said before -- I see a recovery that’s weak, that is
uneven, that’s fragile, and what I didn’t say before. It really
starts from very low levels already.  For example, we are seeing unemployment that’s now
stabilizing, but at high levels, very high levels. The same
thing for youth unemployment. And we’re talking about a
stabilization of something like 5,000 units out of millions. So
that’s what I see. That’s what I see.  The second point you made is also quite valid. Are these
countries aware of their responsibilities and of the fact that
their own policy actions reverberate on other countries?  They have -- I think -- I believe they are aware, and this
awareness has often to be translated into actual action. And I
think that this is happening. Of course, people who are -- who
live in institutions like ours would like to see everything
happening very, very fast. But often, the times -- the speed
that non-elected institutions have in mind is not the same as
the actual political speed in different countries, which doesn’t
mean that we shouldn’t continue to urge them to act.  STAFF: The fourth round -- excuse me. You wanted to speak?  QUESTION: (inaudible) from the Netherlands. Well, about the
political instability of the countries, we have the same problem
in the Netherlands at this moment. There is an impasse to
address the targets of deficits. Is there something to worry
about?  Or are you confident -- as confident as the financial
markets are at this moment?  DRAGHI: I think that the Netherlands have shown in the past
capacity to overcome political crisis. So I’m confident that
this will be overcome, like the country have done in the past.
Thank you.  STAFF: (inaudible)  QUESTION: Yes, Mr. Draghi, I have a question regarding the
next elections in March of the European Parliament. Do you think
this is going to be a big stress test for Europe, with the
development of populist votes in several countries?  And the other question regarding reforms, France has been
said to make reforms a la Francaise. Can you comment on that?  DRAGHI: I’m sorry. France?  QUESTION: France is supposedly doing reforms a la
Francaise, meaning superficially. So I would like to...  DRAGHI: You respond (OFF-MIKE)  QUESTION: ... for you to comment on that.  DRAGHI: Thank you. Thank you. Well, I mean, we are getting
very political here, friends. You’re asking me questions about
what I think about -- I really don’t have any -- any comment to
make about the next elections in the European Parliament.  I can only have a very sort of narrow-minded viewpoint
here. It’s quite clear -- the set of actions that have to be
undertaken in order to foster recovery and especially create
jobs and decrease youth unemployment -- all unemployment,
especially youth in some parts -- some parts of the euro area
are by now pretty clear. As our American friends would say,
there is only one way to skin a cat, I think. And -- and that’s
what -- unfortunately, that’s what -- or fortunately, that’s
what it is. So the issue -- in a sense, any action, any
political conclusion will be judged under this viewpoint.  On the second question, le reform a la Francaise, I would
ask Christian to respond to this.  NOYER: Thank you. Thank you very much. I’ve not much to add
to what you said already, President. But I will repeat it, if I
may, with my own words. I think a lot has been done, as in all
countries in the eurozone, but a lot remains to be done. I’ve no
particular comment on specific reforms, except that -- and I
repeat myself, also -- more needs to be done, especially on
structural reforms, to continue the efforts that have been
already made.  We need to increase the growth potential. It’s not unique
to France. I mean, it’s a comment that I probably could make in
general and that the president has made many times for the
eurozone in general. And we need to put more emphasis on
expenditure reduction or control. Increased taxes is the easy
part of fiscal consolidation, but the reduction of expenditure
is certainly the most important in the medium to long term to
enhance the growth potential and the reactivity of an economy.
So I will stick at that.  STAFF: (inaudible)  QUESTION: (inaudible) from the Spanish press news agency.
Do you think it will be necessary additional measures for the
Spanish banks when the current will take in?  DRAGHI: I’m sorry. Additional measures for...  QUESTION: For the Spanish banks when the current will take
in?  DRAGHI: Well, the -- the program in Spain is judged to be
on track. The actions that have been undertaken have been
considered adequate. The recapitalization plans have been
undertaken. The assets have been transferred and are in the
process of being sold, actually are being sold already.  So everything -- and provisions have been quite
significant. So everything seems to suggest that Spain will
approach this exercise in -- well equipped, but, of course, it’s
very difficult to guess at this point in time what can happen at
individual banks at this point. Thank you.  QUESTION: (inaudible) from  Japan ’s Kyodo News. My question
is about the asset quality review. You say it will be
transparent and vigorous, but the past exercises by the EBA were
also supposed to be vigorous and transparent. What are you going
to do differently to restore confidence?  DRAGHI: Well, the -- let me say that we will give detailed
communication about the design of the asset quality review in
the second half of October. Until now, it’s premature to just
put forward one element or any other element.  What I can tell you is that people -- people learn. And the
general -- I would say the unanimous stance with respect to this
exercise by all supervisors and Governing Council members is to
be transparent and rigorous.  It’s quite clear to everybody -- and in part, because of
the lesson we had -- we had experienced, that -- that in order
to be useful, they have to be credible. In order to be credible,
they have to be transparent and rigorous, in this order exactly.
So the process has to be absolutely transparent. And I think we
are doing -- we’re doing much to this extent.  Also consider the difference with respect to the previous
exercise as far as the plurality of actors is concerned. At this
point in time, we will have the ECB, we will have the national
competent authorities, we will have other countries’ competent
authorities also participating to the -- to the exercise, so
there will be peer pressure, and we will have third-party
private-sector independent assessors. So there are some
differences in the design. Thank you.  STAFF: The last question to (inaudible) La Stampa.  QUESTION: It’s just on the left. Yes, in the last two
weeks, we saw two very important elections, one in  Austria  and
one in Germany. And in both elections, in very stable countries,
we saw anti-euro parties growing very quickly. Also in Germany,
I mean, even if the Alternative fur Deutschland didn’t reach the
5 percent hurdle, but it’s on 4.7 percent, and it’s a very, very
important result. Are you worried about the anti-euro growing
everywhere in Europe now?  And what should be done to -- to --
against this?  DRAGHI: I think we should certainly be alert to these -- to
these expressions of the popular will. And to -- I think there
is one common denominator in what we should do. We should move
forward on the three pillars of our policies, first with the
ultimate objective of fostering the recovery, creating jobs in a
situation of price stability, and the three pillars are national
economic policies should continue their reform actions, the ECB
should continue keeping price stability, and the economic
governance at the euro area level should continue making
progress.  STAFF: Thank you very much. Thank you.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Frankfurt at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  