-- EWE Seeks to Double Customers It Supplies in Turkey
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2013-10-02T11:24:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/ewe-seeks-to-double-customers-it-supplies-in-turkey.html
EWE AG’s  Turkey  unit is aiming to
double the number of customers it sells natural gas to as an
expanding retail market may offer opportunities for acquisitions
including the Istanbul grid.  The German utility, with experience in smart grids and
efficiency, is positioned to compete in a market dominated by
domestic companies, said Bekir Sami Acar, managing director of
EWE Turkey Holding AS. EWE operates two gas grids in western and
central Turkey serving 1.1 million users, or almost 12 percent
of the country’s 9.5 million households, he said.  Since the start of this century, Turkey has sold 30-year
operating rights to all the grids in the country, with the
exception of the biggest, Istanbul. The nation is subsidizing
gas and keeping tariffs low to encourage more of its 19 million
households to switch to the cleaner fuel. Acar expects his
customer base to double as a result.  “Turkey’s retail gas usage penetration should increase to
70 percent or 80 percent of the total consumers,” Acar said in
an interview yesterday in Istanbul. “We believe there will be a
consolidation in the market in the next five to 10 years as some
operators unhappy over the regulator’s price tariffs may
consider exiting.”  Istanbul’s gas grid is part of the government’s
privatization program, Energy Minister  Taner Yildiz  said in
June, without giving a time for a sale. The government sold
Turkey’s second biggest network, in Ankara, to Istanbul-based
Torunlar Enerji for $1.16 billion this year. Igdas, as the
Istanbul grid is known, serves 4.8 million users as of end-2012,
according to the  website .  ‘Big Bite’  EWE could be interested in bidding for Igdas with a partner
if the macroeconomic conditions are right and under “viable
tender terms,” Acar said.  “The Istanbul grid is a big bite for everybody and it may
not be easily sold next year because there are local and
presidential elections,” Acar said. “Also some uncertainties
about the future tariff methodology need to be cleared.”  The energy market regulator sets a five-year gas tariff for
each of the country’s 70 grids based on parameters including the
network’s consumption, investment needs and expected revenues.
Last year, the regulator renewed tariffs for most operators for
the period through 2016.  EWE is also interested in taking part in gas imports to
Turkey as Botas Boru Hatti ile Petrol Tasima AS, the country’s
state oil and gas pipeline company, will gradually sell import
contracts under a new draft law to amend the gas market
legislation, Acar said.  “Our aim is to become a leading company in Turkey’s gas-distribution market as EWE has chosen Turkey and Eastern
European countries as growth markets,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  