-- Mexico’s Peso Rises on Speculation Fed to Continue Buying Assets
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-10-02T21:49:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/mexico-peso-holds-at-three-week-low-local-bond-yields-decline.html
Mexico ’s peso rose from a three-week
low after U.S. employers added fewer jobs than forecast, fueling
speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will keep stimulus that has
boosted demand for the Latin American country’s bonds.  The peso rose 0.3 percent to 13.1140 per dollar at 4 p.m.
in Mexico City after closing yesterday at the weakest level
since Sept. 6. Yields on peso bonds maturing in 2024 fell five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 6 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The lower-than-forecast jobs data and a government shutdown
that analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimate will shave 0.1
percentage point from U.S. growth if it lasts a week fueled
speculation that the Fed will maintain its $85 billion in
monthly asset purchases to bolster the economy. Mexico sends
about 80 percent of its exports to the U.S.  “The market thinks that the liquidity the Fed is injecting
can last for the rest of the year,” Salvador Orozco, deputy
director for money markets and exchange at Grupo Financiero
Santander Mexico SAB, said by phone from Mexico City.“This has
caused the continuation of foreign flows to Mexican bonds.”  Fed Bank of Boston President  Eric Rosengren  said today that
the U.S. central bank refrained from tapering its bond purchases
last month because growth was lower than forecast and fiscal
policy posed a risk to the outlook.  Companies in the U.S. increased payrolls by 166,000 in
September, figures from ADP Research Institute showed today. The
median forecast of 40 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for
an advance of 180,000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  