-- Fed Must Give Better Guidance to Market, JPMorgan’s Frenkel Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   B r a u t l e c h t
-- 2013-10-02T14:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/fed-must-give-better-guidance-to-market-jpmorgan-s-frenkel-says.html
The  Federal Reserve  should give more
subtle guidance to financial markets rather than pin its policy
decisions on unpredictable targets, which can send confusing
signals if these fail to materialize as anticipated, said  Jacob Frenkel , the chairman of JPMorgan Chase International.  Markets would benefit from a “guidance of economic
realities,” the former governor of the  Bank of Israel  said at
the Global Economic Symposium in Kiel,  Germany  today. “But you
have to be very subtle when you go about it.”  The U.S. central bank should also avoid giving dates for
policy changes such as an end to its bond buying or a change in
interest rates, he said.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in June he expected the
bank would complete its bond buying when the jobless level was
around 7 percent, linking a policy decision to specific
unemployment rates. Policy makers have pledged since December
that they won’t consider raising  interest rates  as long as
unemployment exceeds 6.5 percent.  After a decline in August to 7.3 percent for an unexpected
reason -- Americans giving up on finding work -- the  Federal
Open Market Committee ’s Sept. 18 decided not to taper its $85
billion in monthly bond buying, bucking economist predictions
that it would scale back the purchases that have bolstered
credit markets.  “It would be very nice to have a guidance of economic
realities,” Frenkel said. Unemployment is not the right measure
for guidance as “U.S. unemployment declined much more
rapidly than expected by anyone but growth is not generated by
that as labor force participation shrank.”  Confuse Matters  “For a long time the monetary authority decided not to
discuss exits, as they did not want to confuse matters, but
let’s face it, if you go into a highway, wouldn’t you like to
know before you enter if it is a dead-end or it has an exit,”
he said at a panel about the future of central banking.  Central banks must also be freed from the burden of
“worrisome concerns about financial market stability,” he
said. To rebalance the situation, the financial industry needs
to increase banks’ capital levels, while lowering their
leverage.  “Thirdly, liquidity must be higher than it used to be as
much of the crisis arises when we have a lack of liquidity,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Brautlecht in Hamburg at 
 nbrautlecht@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  