-- Fed-Wary Borrowers Grab Jumbo Loans in Asia Before Margins Rise
-- B y   F o s t e r   W o n g   a n d   P a u l i n a   D u r a n
-- 2013-10-02T03:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/fed-wary-borrowers-grab-jumbo-loans-in-asia-before-margins-rise.html
Asian companies are raising the
largest-sized loans in more than five years as they seek big-ticket deals before a potential rise in lending costs.  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. and  Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG) 
syndicated about $15 billion of facilities in the third quarter,
leading companies in the Asia-Pacific region outside  Japan ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That boosted the
average deal size to $333 million, the highest since the first
quarter of 2008. Average margins for dollar-denominated loans
fell 22 basis points from a year earlier to 266 basis points on
Sept. 30, the data show.  Many borrowers avoided selling bonds in the third quarter
amid a widely-expected easing of U.S. central bank stimulus that
didn’t occur. Resulting volatility in that market helped favor
syndicated loan volumes in Asia, with companies including  China 
National Offshore Oil Corp. adding to this year’s total of $285
billion of deals so far. That compares with $276 billion for the
same period in 2012, Bloomberg-compiled data show.  “Corporates are becoming more proactive and open to
raising financing when the market conditions are strong, which
is leading to earlier refinancings and more opportunistic fund
raisings,” said Andrew Ashman, a Singapore-based director of
Asia-Pacific loan syndication at Barclays Plc. “When the
tapering starts, we may find that bank funding costs increase
and this could lead to price inflation in the loan market.”  Biggest Loan   Alibaba, China’s biggest e-commerce company, in July
completed an $8 billion facility, the biggest syndication in the
region this year, Bloomberg-compiled data show. The company,
which last week canceled plans for a  Hong Kong  initial public
offering, paid an average margin of 242 basis points above the
London interbank offered rate for the loan. In early 2012, it
paid an average of about 475 basis points for a $3 billion loan
to take its Alibaba.com Ltd. unit private.  Origin Energy,  Australia ’s biggest electricity retailer,
cut borrowing costs by as much as 50 basis points in August on a
A$7.4 billion ($7 billion) facility, Bloomberg-compiled data
show. The company paid 170 basis points more than the bank bill
swap rate on the five-year portion of the loan, the nation’s
biggest this year, compared with the 220 basis-point margin it
paid on a similar-maturity loan in October 2012, the data show.  “The price tightening we have seen this year has been
driven by the vast liquidity available and the increasing number
of banks participating in the market,” said Loretta Venten,
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia ’s head of loan markets and
syndications in  Melbourne .  Fed Anticipation  The U.S. Federal Reserve in September bucked economist
predictions that it would scale back $85 billion of monthly bond
purchases that have bolstered credit markets. Anticipation of
the central bank’s tapering pushed the average yield on U.S.
dollar corporate-bonds in  Asia  to a 14-month high of 5.18
percent on Sept. 5 before falling back to 4.79 percent on Sept.
30, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  Volatility in bonds and other markets meant borrowers found
loan pricing comparably favorable in the third quarter, which
wasn’t the case earlier this year, said Phil Lipton, HSBC
Holdings Plc’s Hong Kong-based head of syndicated finance for
Asia-Pacific. Average loan margins in the region have fallen 26
basis points since Dec. 31, Bloomberg-compiled data show.  “This downtrend is now stabilizing,” said Lipton.
“Headwinds in places like  Indonesia  and  India  could potentially
lead to pricing volatility there. But pricing in other countries
in the region is likely to remain relatively static.”  China, Australia  While Asia’s third-quarter loan volumes fell 4 percent from
a year earlier to $93.9 billion, companies in China, Hong Kong,
Australia, the  Philippines ,  Malaysia  and Indonesia borrowed more
during the period, the data show. Chinese companies are leading
about $17 billion of additional deals in or near syndication in
the region, after the nation’s cash-hungry borrowers turned to
the offshore loan market to refinance debt or support
acquisitions amid a cash crunch in June.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386) , Asia’s biggest refiner,
has sent requests for proposals to banks for a $2.5 billion
five-year  term loan  for working capital, two people familiar
with the matter said on Sept. 25. Shuanghui International
Holdings Ltd. is marketing a $4 billion loan in general
syndication, to back its takeover of Smithfield Foods Inc.,
which completed last week.  “We’ve seen a noticeable pick-up in M&A and that has
resulted in some sizable loans in this region, providing a much
needed boost to the market,” said Barclays’ Ashman. “With the
improving global macro outlook and continued availability of
bank liquidity, I would expect this trend to continue.”  Merger Loans  Companies in emerging Asia markets led by China and  South
Korea  spent $73.7 billion on acquisitions in the third quarter,
37 percent more than a year earlier, Bloomberg-compiled data
show. That helped boost loans for such transactions in the Asia-Pacific region outside of Japan to $12.6 billion in the three
months from about $6 billion a year ago, the data show.  Indian companies borrowed more than $8.1 billion of loans
since July 1, even amid the nation’s worst economic slowdown in
a decade, according to Bloomberg data. In addition, at least $5
billion of Indian deals are in or near syndication, including a
$1.75 billion-equivalent loan being marketed by  Mukesh Ambani ’s
 Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)   Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) , controlled by
billionaire  Anil Agarwal , is syndicating a $1.2 billion five-year loan, a person familiar said in August.  “With the volatility seen this quarter, the profile of the
loan market has been raised because of its resilience,” said
HSBC’s Lipton. “It can be more stable and reliable than the
alternatives.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Foster Wong in Hong Kong at 
 fwong94@bloomberg.net ;
Paulina Duran in Sydney at 
 pduran10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  