-- Ex-Penn State Coach Sandusky Conviction Upheld on Appeal
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-10-02T16:26:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/former-penn-state-coach-jerry-sandusky-loses-appeal-of-sentence.html
Former Pennsylvania State University
Coach Jerry Sandusky, who was sentenced to at least 30 years in
prison for sexually abusing boys, failed to persuade a state
appeals court that he deserved a new trial.  Sandusky said his  trial lawyers  had inadequate time to
prepare and the judge didn’t instruct the jury on how to weigh
the victims’ delay in reporting the crimes. Those arguments fell
short, the Pennsylvania Superior Court said today.  “The vigorous cross-examination of the victims and the
arguments by defense counsel, when combined with the trial
court’s instructions on credibility, clearly defined the issues
for the jury,” the appeals panel ruled.  Sandusky, 69, who is being held in restricted housing in a
maximum-security prison in Waynesburg, Pennsylvania, was found
guilty in June 2012 of 45 counts of abusing boys for more than a
decade.  Norris Gelman, an attorney representing Sandusky in his
appeal, called the ruling “disappointing.” The former coach
plans to appeal to the state’s highest court, Gelman said in a
phone interview.  Attorneys representing Sandusky at the trial said last year
that they had less than 4 1/2 months to prepare a case based
initially on 52 criminal counts and 10 victims.  Among the issues raised on appeal was Common Pleas Court Judge John Cleland’s alleged error in denying three requests to
delay the trial.  Jury Instructions  He also wrongly failed to instruct the jury on character
evidence and on prosecutors’ alleged misconduct for adversely
commenting on Sandusky’s decision not to testify, the defense
claimed.  “We agree, completely, with the trial court’s reasoning,”
the appeals court said in affirming the judgment. “The trial
court properly instructed the jury. Accordingly, Sandusky’s
argument fails.”  The appeals case is Commonwealth of  Pennsylvania  v.
Sandusky, 343 MDA 2013, Superior Court of Pennsylvania Middle
District (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 