-- Furniture Brands Gets KPS as Lead Bid Replacing Oaktree
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-10-02T19:20:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/furniture-brands-gets-kps-as-lead-bid-replacing-oaktree.html
KPS Capital Partners LP replaced
Oaktree Capital Management LP as the lead bidder in a bankruptcy
auction of  Furniture Brands International Inc. (FBNIQ) ’s assets with a
$280 million offer.  The New York-based private-equity firm will also replace
Oaktree as the bankruptcy lender after U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
 Christopher Sontchi  granted the furniture maker’s request on an
interim basis at a hearing today in Wilmington,  Delaware .
Oaktree’s initial loan will be repaid.  KPS’s bid has “better terms, a higher amount and lower
breakup fee,” Luc A. Despins, a lawyer for Furniture Brands,
told the judge. “The law is clear and our hands are tied and we
need to accept the higher and better offer.”  Furniture Brands, maker of the Broyhill, Lane and
Thomasville home-furnishing lines, today also won court approval
of guidelines that will govern its sale process. The company
will hold an auction on Dec. 10 to determine if there are any
better offers, followed by a Dec. 12 hearing to seek approval of
the sale. Other bids must be submitted by Dec. 5.  The KPS offer is superior to Oaktree’s with “$20 million
more in the headline amount,” better terms and no adjustments,
Mark T. Power, a lawyer for unsecured creditors, said at the
hearing. KPS “intends on operating the entire business” and
virtually all current employees will be offered jobs, he said.  Oaktree Deal  Furniture Brands entered bankruptcy after negotiating a
deal with Oaktree to sell its assets for about $166 million,
according to court documents. KPS pushed Oaktree to better its
terms at Furniture Brands’ first hearing and indicated it would
continue to pursue the furniture maker.  The private-equity firms battled back-and-forth last week,
each submitting improved proposals, with Oaktree stopping at
$260 million, according to court papers.  “KPS has created a very good day here for employees,
customers,” Mark Thomas, a lawyer for the firm, said at today’s
hearing.  Furniture Brands was forced to seek  bankruptcy protection 
after a depressed housing industry and weak  consumer spending 
led to falling sales, Chief Financial Officer Vance Johnston
said in a court filing. Sales decreased 7.8 percent in the six
months ended June 29 from the same period a year earlier.  The company, based in  St. Louis , listed assets of
$546.7 million and debt of $550.1 million in Chapter 11
documents filed Sept. 9.  Funded Debt  Furniture Brands owes about $142 million in funded  debt ,
including about $92.3 million on an asset-based revolving
facility and $49.7 million on a  term loan , according to court
documents. The company also has about $200 million in unfunded
pension obligations and about $100 million in trade debt.  The company, with about 9,000 employees, makes and
distributes home decor in nine countries.  The case is In re Furniture Brands International Inc., 13-bk-12329,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  