-- German Stocks Retreat as Investors Assess U.S. Shutdown
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-10-02T15:57:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/german-stocks-retreat-as-investors-assess-u-s-shutdown.html
German stocks  dropped as the U.S.
government shutdown entered a second day and investors weighed
its impact on growth in the world’s largest economy.  K+S AG (SDF) , a producer of crop nutrients, fell 2.1 percent
after saying that a planned explosion at a potash mine in
Germany killed three miners yesterday.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) 
lost 3.6 percent as Deutsche Bank AG downgraded its rating on
the airline.  Gerresheimer AG (GXI)  rose 1.8 percent after saying it
will adopt a new business structure from Dec. 1 and confirming
its earnings and sales forecasts for 2013.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  declined 0.7 percent to 8,629.42 at the close
of trading in Frankfurt. The equity benchmark added 8 percent in
the three months through September, for its biggest quarterly
advance in a year, as the  Federal Reserve  refrained from
reducing its monthly bond purchases. The broader HDAX Index fell
0.6 percent today.  “There’s pressure on the markets because of U.S.
negotiations, and there will be volatility until they reach a
solution,” said Christoph Ohme, who helps oversee the
equivalent of $1.28 trillion at Deutsche Asset & Wealth
Management in  Frankfurt . “It will be a difficult process until
Oct. 17. Still, I see the market reaction as a correction, not a
major broad sell-off, and much more stable than two years ago.”  The volume of shares changing hands in DAX-listed companies
was 19 percent lower than the average of the past 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The U.S. government continued its first partial shutdown in
17 years as lawmakers failed to agree on a budget, placing as
many as 800,000 federal employees temporarily out of work.
Congress now faces a dispute over raising the $16.7 trillion
debt ceiling this month.  Shutdown Effect  A partial shutdown lasting one week would probably shave
0.1 percentage point from economic growth, according to the
median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey, with the
costs accelerating if the closure persists.  The Treasury has said measures to avoid exceeding the
borrowing limit will be exhausted on Oct. 17. The U.S. won’t
have enough money to pay all of its bills at some point between
Oct. 22 and Oct. 31 without action by Congress, according to the
 Congressional Budget Office .  European Central Bank policy makers kept their benchmark
 interest rate  unchanged at a record low of 0.5 percent, matching
all 52  economists’ estimates  in a  Bloomberg News  survey.  In  Italy , Prime Minister Enrico Letta won a confidence vote
today after  Silvio Berlusconi  backtracked on a pledge to bring
down the five-month old government as his party showed signs of
deserting him.  Berlusconi Threat  Berlusconi had repeatedly threatened to bring down the
government if Letta’s  Democratic Party  voted to expel him from
the Senate following his definitive conviction for  tax fraud  in
August. A public hearing in a Senate committee on the matter is
scheduled for Oct. 4.  K+S fell 2.1 percent to 18.62 euros, extending its decline
this year to 47 percent after posting its worst quarter in five
years. Three workers died after an intentional underground blast
at a mine in Germany’s Thuringia state released a large
accumulation of carbon dioxide, according to a spokesman.  Lufthansa lost 3.6 percent to 14.27 euros as Deutsche Bank
downgraded the carrier to hold from buy.  Air Berlin Plc (AB1)  declined
2.9 percent to 1.70 euros as the brokerage cut its rating to
sell from buy. The airlines’ restructuring plans may take longer
than expected and demand remains weak, according to a Deutsche
Bank note. Both carriers will report September sales next week.  Hochtief Slides  Hochtief AG dropped 7.9 percent to 60.20 euros, the biggest
decline since November 2011, after the Sydney Morning Herald
reported allegations of corruption at its Australian
construction unit, Leighton Holdings Ltd. The newspaper cited
internal company files obtained in an investigation by its
publisher Fairfax Media Ltd. Hochtief spokesman Christian Gerhardus declined to comment to Bloomberg News on the report.  Gerresheimer rose 1.8 percent to 45.60 euros. The producer
of pharmaceutical and health-care equipment said it will divide
its operations in three units in the new financial year starting
December, from four divisions previously.  MorphoSys AG (MOR)  rallied 7.2 percent to 61.35 euros, extending
its rally this year to 109 percent. Partner Novartis AG started
a second-phase trial of a treatment for muscle loss and
weakness, triggering an undisclosed payment for the German
biotechnology company, according to a statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  