-- GM’s Opel Offers Buyouts to Bochum Transmission Workers
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-10-02T11:02:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/gm-s-opel-offers-buyouts-to-bochum-transmission-workers.html
General Motor Co. (GM) ’s Opel unit is
offering severance packages to the 300 employees producing
transmissions at its Bochum,  Germany , plant who volunteer to
leave this year as the carmaker prepares to shut the factory.  The program includes the opportunity for workers to join a
transfer company for 12 months that helps them prepare for a new
job, Opel and the IG Metall union said today in separate
statements. Employees can also opt to shift to the vehicle-assembly line at Bochum or transfer to another Opel plant.  The agreement reached between management at Ruesselsheim,
Germany-based Opel, the works council and the union is
independent of talks on the future of employees at the Bochum
carmaking unit that’s scheduled to close by the end of 2014. The
Bochum site workforce totaled 3,200 people at the end of 2012.  “The agreement includes very fair compensation payments
and regulations that help employees in reorientation and offers
them a perspective,” Alexander Bazio, an Opel spokesman in
Bochum, said by phone.  GM’s European division, which mainly includes Opel and the
U.K. sister brand Vauxhall, is working to restore profitability
by 2016 following losses exceeding $18 billion since 1999. The
closing of the Bochum plant will mark the first shutdown of a
German car factory since World War II.  GM decided to halt production at Bochum after workers there
rejected a proposal for wage concessions in exchange for keeping
the plant running until 2016. Employees at Opel facilities in
the German towns of Eisenach, Kaiserslautern, Dudenhofen and
Ruesselsheim accepted a wage freeze to preserve jobs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  