-- Goldman Sachs Buys $1.46 Billion Stake in Denmark’s Dong Energy
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2013-10-02T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/goldman-buys-1-46-billion-stake-in-denmark-s-dong-energy-1-.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  will buy an
8 billion-krone ($1.46 billion) stake in Dong Energy A/S,
Denmark’s largest utility, which is shoring up its balance sheet
after losing money on failed natural gas bets.  The purchase will give New York-based Goldman a 19 percent
stake in Dong, which is controlled by the government, the
utility said late yesterday. Danish pension funds ATP and PFA
will pay 2.2 billion kroner and 800 million kroner to buy stakes
of about 5 percent and 2 percent, respectively.  Denmark’s government, which pulled a planned initial public
offering of Dong in 2008, said in February it will sell a stake
in the Skaerbaek, Denmark-based company as writedowns soared.
Dong yesterday said the parties have agreed to seek an initial
public offering when conditions “are right.”  The new investors have an option to sell their holdings
back to the government should an IPO not be completed before the
release of Dong’s 2017 financial report, according to today’s
statement.  Goldman plans to “grow the business and provide
environmentally friendly energy and infrastructure for European
markets,” Andrew Wolff, head of Goldman Sachs Merchant Banking
Division in  Europe , said in the statement. Goldman is buying 
the stake via funds managed by Wolff's division.  Dong is the world’s largest operator of offshore wind
turbine parks. The company also explores for oil and natural gas
in the  North Sea .  Yields Fall  The yield on Dong’s 6.25 percent bond due 3013 declined to
6.07 percent in the Danish capital yesterday, the lowest since
the bond started trading on June 24. The bond yielded about 6.10
percent on Oct. 1, according to Composite Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices.  The sale will reduce the government’s stake to about 60
percent from 81 percent, according to the statement.  Dong is selling shares as part of a financial restructuring
announced in February to cut costs, reduce debt and bolster
investments in oil and gas exploration as well as wind farms.
The plan includes cutting costs by 20 percent and selling assets
to raise 10 billion kroner.  “With the injection of new equity, we have almost fully
delivered on our financial action plan and have thus secured the
necessary platform for pursuing our ambitions for the coming
years,” Dong Chief Executive Officer Henrik Poulsen said in the
statement.  Dong said in April the company is being advised by  Nordea
Bank AB (NDA)  and  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  