-- Gross’s Flagship Had $5.4 Billion of Redemptions in Month
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-10-02T17:57:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/gross-s-flagship-had-5-4-billion-of-redemptions-in-month.html
Bill Gross ’s  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX) ,
the world’s biggest mutual fund, had its fifth straight month of
withdrawals in September.  Clients pulled an estimated $5.4 billion from Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s Total Return Fund, leaving the fund
with assets of $250 billion at the end of last month, Chicago-based research firm  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Jeffrey Gundlach ’s DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund
had $2.1 billion of net redemptions in September, its biggest
monthly total ever, Morningstar said yesterday.  Fixed-income withdrawals were triggered by U.S. Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke, who told Congress on May 22 that
the central bank could start reducing its bond purchases and is
prepared to begin phasing out its unprecedented easing program
later this year. The Fed unexpectedly refrained from tapering
its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases at the Sept. 17-18
policy meeting, saying it needs more evidence of lasting
improvement in the economy.  Investors pulled about $121 billion from U.S. bond funds
from May 31 through Sept. 18, according to estimates from the
Investment Company Institute. The funds attracted $1.3 billion
in the week ended Sept. 25.  “While core bond categories have experienced outflows
industrywide, we have continued to see inflows into absolute
return and unconstrained strategies,”  Mark Porterfield , a
spokesman for Pimco, said in an e-mailed statement.  Pimco’s Returns  Pimco Total Return returned 1.7 percent in the past month,
beating 98 percent of peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The fund declined 2 percent this year, putting it
behind 54 percent of similarly managed funds, the data show.
Over the past five years, it has returned an average of 7.9
percent, ahead of 89 percent of rivals.  “Typically it’s a one- to two-month lag in which investors
see their statement or advisers see their statement and they
recognize the recent performance of the Total Return Fund and
they say, ‘OK, the bleeding has stopped and now we can make some
money,’” Gross said during a Bloomberg Radio interview Sept.
19.  Pimco, based in  Newport Beach , California, is a unit of
Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE. (ALV)  The firm had about $1.97
trillion in assets as of June 30.  Morningstar estimates deposits or withdrawals for mutual
funds by computing the change in assets on a monthly basis that
isn’t accounted for by performance. The fund’s actual
withdrawals or deposits may differ from Morningstar’s estimates
because of the timing of purchases and redemptions or dividend
distributions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  