-- Guccione, ‘Raging Bull,’ Woodpecker: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-10-02T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/guccione-raging-bull-woodpecker-intellectual-property.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  will hear two
appeals that would make it easier for targets of patent suits to
collect attorneys’ fees, agreeing to consider steps that some
companies say would deter groundless litigation.  The court said yesterday it will hear arguments from Octane
Fitness LLC, which is seeking $1.3 million in fees after
defeating a patent suit over exercise equipment. The justices
also accepted an appeal by Highmark Inc., a Pennsylvania insurer
asking for $5 million from a company that unsuccessfully sued
for patent infringement.  A White House report said more than 100,000 companies were
threatened last year with infringement suits by businesses whose
sole mission is to extract royalty revenue. Those entities,
dubbed “patent trolls” by critics, filed 19 percent of all
patent lawsuits from 2007 to 2011, according to the Government
Accountability Office.  “With the average patent case costing millions of dollars
to litigate, the threat of paying the prevailing party’s
attorney’s fees is a powerful deterrent to frivolous claims and
litigation mischief,” the Blue Cross and Blue Shield
Association, a Washington-based trade group, argued in court
papers urging the high court to intervene in the Highmark case.  The U.S. Patent Act says fees can be awarded “in
exceptional cases.” Octane contends the federal appeals court
that handles patent cases, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Federal Circuit in  Washington , has developed a “rigid and
virtually insurmountable test” for implementing that statutory
language.  Under the Federal Circuit test, a suit must be
“objectively baseless” and have been filed in bad faith.
Octane says trial judges instead should be able to award fees
when a patent holder “unreasonably pursues a case having an
objectively low likelihood of success.”  The Supreme Court will hear arguments and rule by early
July in the two cases. The cases are Octane Fitness v. Icon
Health & Fitness, 12-1184, and Highmark v. Allcare Health
Management Systems, 12-1163.  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Guccione Collection Seeks Court Declaration It Owns Rights  Artwork created by the late publisher of  Penthouse Magazine 
is at issue in a copyright suit between his estate and the
purchaser of items bought in the wake of the publisher’s
bankruptcy.  Guccione Collection LLC  was formed to exploit artwork by
 Bob Guccione , who died in October 2010 at the age of 80. The
collection has plans to auction some of the work through
Christie’s International Plc later this year, according to court
papers.  Additionally, the collection entered into an agreement with
 Vice  magazine to feature some of the late publisher’s artwork,
manuscript pages from his autobiography, and some of his erotic
photography in its September issue. The collection is also
working with  Brooklyn ,  New York ’s  powerHouse Books  to create a
book that featured art that appeared in Omni, a science fiction
magazine published by Guccione.  Beginning in September the collection, Vice magazine, and
powerHouse Books received a series of cease-and-desist letters
from counsel for the estate. The letters, sent by New York’s
Pryor Cashman LLP, and appended to the complaint, claimed the
estate owns the copyright to the artwork and demanded that the
various publications halt.  The collection asked the court to declare that it’s the
owner of all the rights to the artwork and other items that
comprise the Guccione Collection, that it hasn’t infringed the
estate’s  intellectual property  rights, and to order the estate
to quit making infringement claims.  Additionally, the collection asked for awards of damages,
attorney fees and litigation costs.  The case is Guccione Collection LLC v. Michael Linda,
12:cv-06949, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhatttan).  ‘Raging Bull’ Rights Fight Gets Hearing at U.S. Supreme Court  The U.S. Supreme Court agreed to hear a dispute over the
rights to the 1980 Oscar-winning movie “Raging Bull,”
accepting an appeal from the daughter of a man who worked with
boxer Jake LaMotta to write the screenplay.  The justices said yesterday they will consider whether
Paula Petrella waited too long to press her copyright claims
against MGM Holdings Inc. units. Petrella is seeking damages for
marketing and distribution starting in 2006. She is also suing a
unit of  Twenty-First Century Fox Inc. (FOXA) , which has distribution
rights for the film.  Petrella’s father, Frank Peter Petrella, was a longtime
friend of LaMotta, whose life story was the basis for the movie.
The two men produced a book and two screenplays, though the
litigants disagree as to how much of a role each one played.
They sold the rights to a production company in 1976 and an MGM
unit later acquired the movie rights.  The film won two Academy Awards, including Best Actor for
 Robert De Niro , who portrayed LaMotta.  Under federal copyright law, Frank Petrella’s 1981 death
meant his heirs had the right to renew the copyrights when the
original 28-year-term expired. Paula Petrella filed a renewal
application for the 1963 screenplay in 1991. Although her
attorneys exchanged letters with MGM from 1998 to 2000, she
didn’t sue until 2009.  A federal appeals court threw out the lawsuit, saying
Petrella waited too long to assert her rights. The appeals court
invoked a legal doctrine known as “laches,” which applies when
a delay deprives the other litigant of a fair chance to mount a
defense.  At the Supreme Court, Petrella says that laches shouldn’t
apply and that she is limited only by the three-year statute of
limitations in federal copyright law.  The case is Petrella v. Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, 12-1315.  Oxford, Cambridge Publishers Urged to Drop Indian Copyright Suit  Jhatkaa, an Indian advocacy organization focusing on
development and governmental accountability, has begun a
petition drive asking academic publishers to drop a copyright
suit related to photocopying textbooks.  Oxford University Press , Cambridge University Press and
Informa Plc’s Taylor & Francis unit are suing Delhi University
and a local photocopying service over the creation and sale of
photocopied course packs.  In October 2012, in connection with this suit, the
publishers obtained a court order barring the photocopying of
these courts packs. In response students at the Delhi School of
Economics created a group to oppose that order.  Jhatkaa has started a petition campaign asking the
publishers to drop the suit, saying that without the course
packs “people from less privileged backgrounds” won’t be able
to obtain an education.  The organization said in a statement that last year more
than 300 academics spoke out against the suit in an open letter.
Included among the signatories are “33 of the very authors”
whose works are published by the academic presses.  In the petition, Jhatkaa and its signatories ask that the
academic presses “put the importance of education above
royalties” and withdraw the suit.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Houston, Washington Can’t Register City Seals as Trademarks  An appeal board at the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office 
properly refused to register seals of two U.S. cities as
trademarks, a federal appeals court ruled.  Both the city of Houston,  Texas , and the government of the
 District of Columbia  had sought registration and had filed
appeals of the board’s rejections of their applications.  The Washington-based U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit said that the plain language of U.S. trademark law
specifically bars registration of an “insignia of the  United
States , or of any state or municipality.”  The city of Houston argued that language in trademark law
specifying that trademark registration is intended to protect
the public from “pirates and cheats” should have permitted the
registration.  The court rejected that argument, saying that the city
would have other means of protecting against “pirates and
cheats” using its seal, such as passing an ordinance
prohibiting such activity.  The government of the District of Columbia tried to use
U.S. treaty obligations to justify its registration. The appeals
court said that while sections of what is known as the Paris
Convention treaty require member countries to register as
trademarks official insignia that can be registered in other
countries, this section doesn’t apply to municipal-level
insignia.  Because the District of Columbia isn’t a country that is a
member of the union that signed the treaty, it isn’t entitled to
use that treaty section to justify its trademark registration,
the court said.  The cases are In re city of Houston 2012-1356 and In re the
Government of the District of Columbia 2012-1418.  ‘Woodpecker’ Brand Use Barred to Wholesaler Despite Trademark  Woodpecker Hardwood Floors Inc. , a Canadian retail seller
of hardwood flooring, persuaded the Supreme Court of British
Columbia to bar a nearby wholesale flooring company’s use of the
term “woodpecker” even though the other company registered the
term as a trademark.  The court said that Woodpecker Hardwood Floors of Richmond,
British Columbia, had used the term for at least 13 years.
 Wiston International Trade Co. , also of Richmond, registered the
mark with the Canadian Intellectual Property Office in January
2013, according to court papers.  Woodpecker then sent Wiston a cease-and-desist notice,
requesting that the wholesaler quit using the name. Wiston
refused, so Woodpecker filed suit, arguing its 13 years of prior
use and Wiston’s knowledge of that use trumped the registration.
Woodpecker also complained that the public was confused by the
wholesaler’s use of the name.  The court, noting that the two businesses were located
within a mile of each other, said Woodpecker would be harmed if
the wholesaler were allowed to use the name. The court said the
longer Wiston used the confusingly similar mark, the more
difficult it would be to “unscramble” the resulting business
losses.  Wiston is still able to carry on business under its
original name, the court said, and having two Woodpeckers
selling hardwood flooring within a mile of each other “would
seem contrary to public interest.”  The case is between Woodpecker Hardwood Floors Inc. and
Wiston International Trade Co Ltd., S136046, In the Supreme
Court of British Columbia.  For more trademark news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 