-- Brazilian Stocks Fall as Lojas Renner Drops on Economic Concern
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-10-02T20:41:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/ibovespa-falls-as-csn-leads-brazil-exporter-drop-on-u-s-outlook.html
The Ibovespa fell for the sixth time
in seven sessions as retailers including  Lojas Renner SA (LREN3)  sank
after growth in the industrial sector trailed estimates,
rekindling concern that  Brazil ’s economy is faltering.  Consumer stocks fell the most among 10 industry groups on
the MSCI Brazil Index with cosmetics seller  Natura Cosmeticos SA (NATU3) 
retreating to a one-week low. Phone company Oi SA rallied after
it agreed to merge with Lisbon-based Portugal Telecom SGPS SA.  The Ibovespa slipped 0.1 percent to 53,100.18 at the close
in Sao Paulo, with 37 stocks lower and 34 higher. The real
gained 1 percent to 2.1951 per dollar at 5:30 p.m. local time.
Brazil’s industrial output was unchanged in August from a month
earlier, the national statistics agency said. Economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg had expected it to increase 0.2 percent.  “The industrial output figures today show that economic
activity in Brazil is still pretty weak,”  Alvaro Bandeira , a
partner at Orama Asset Management, said in a telephone interview
from  Rio de Janeiro . “If you look just at the outlook for
economic growth, it’s hard to be very optimistic about
equities.”  Renner dropped 1.3 percent to 65 reais. Natura declined 2.1
percent to 49.46 reais.  Oi rallied 5.2 percent to 4.44 reais. Zeinal Bava, the
former Portugal Telecom chief executive officer who became the
head of Oi in June while continuing to run the Portuguese
carrier’s domestic operations, will lead the enlarged company,
which will be incorporated in Brazil.  Shopping Malls  Shopping mall owner  Iguatemi Empresa de Shopping Centers SA 
advanced 2.9 percent to 25 reais. The company said in a
regulatory filing late yesterday it agreed to pay 83.6 million
reais to increase its stake in the Galleria shopping mall in
Campinas, Brazil.  Brazil’s main equity gauge entered a  bull market  Sept. 9
after rising 20 percent from this year’s low on July 3 through
that day. The gauge is still down 19 percent in dollar terms
this year, compared with a decline of 5.4 percent for the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index of 21 developing nations’ equities.
Trading volume on the index’s members today was 20 percent lower
than the average in the previous five days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  