-- ICBC to Swire Pacific Market Dollar Debt as Asia Bond Risk Falls
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-10-02T05:53:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/icbc-to-swire-pacific-market-dollar-debt-as-asia-bond-risk-falls.html
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China
Ltd. (601398) ,  Swire Pacific Ltd. (19) , Korea Western Power Co., and First Gen
Corp. are marketing dollar notes, as Asian bond risk dropped the
most in almost two weeks.  ICBC is offering a Basel III-compliant, 10-year
subordinated security, according to a person familiar with the
matter. Swire Pacific is also marketing a dollar note due in 10
years, another person said. The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40
investment-grade borrowers outside Japan tumbled 5 basis points,
the most since Sept. 19, to 150 basis points as of 8:17 a.m. in
Hong Kong, prices from data provider CMA and Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. show.  The first U.S. government shutdown in 17 years may mean
dollar-denominated corporate bonds outperform stocks this month,
if the political gridlock persists, according to strategists
from Bank of America Corp. to Wells Fargo & Co. Issuers are also
looking to lock in rates after the Federal Reserve decided last
month to defer cutting stimulus and amid speculation it may now
start tapering later this quarter.  “There’s a bit of a backlog from summer,” said Herman Van Den Wall Bake, head of fixed income capital markets, Asia at
Deutsche Bank AG. “There may be an element of pre-funding
before the first quarter of next year, with issuers looking to
lock-in debt before interest rates start to rise.”  Risk Falls  Korea Western Power, the unit of Korea Electric Power
Corp., the country’s biggest utility, is seeking to sell a U.S.
dollar five-year security at an extra yield of 185 basis points
more than Treasuries, a person familiar with the matter said.
First Gen is marketing 10-year dollar notes to yield about 6.625
percent, another person said, asking not to be identified
because the terms aren’t set.  The offerings come after issuance in euros, dollars and yen
by borrowers in Asia outside  Japan  dropped to $23 billion last
quarter, the lowest since the last three months of 2011, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index is set for its lowest close
since Sept. 26, according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index fell 4 basis points to
118 as of 10:11 a.m. in Sydney, according to Westpac Banking
Corp. prices. The measure is poised for its biggest decline
since Sept. 19, according to data from CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
private market.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index retreated 3 basis points to
92 as of 9:21 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to Citigroup Inc. prices.
The gauge is set for its lowest level since Sept. 23, CMA data
show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  