-- ICBC Markets Asia’s First Basel III Compliant Dollar Bond
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-10-02T06:24:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/icbc-markets-asia-s-first-basel-iii-compliant-dollar-bond.html
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China
Ltd. , the world’s most profitable lender, is testing the market
with  Asia ’s first dollar bond that is Basel III-compliant,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of  China  (Asia) Ltd. is
marketing a 10-year, Tier 2 subordinated security, according to
a person familiar with the matter. Filipino lender  Metropolitan
Bank & Trust (MBT)  is also planning a Basel III-compliant dollar
subordinated note, according to Fitch Ratings Ltd.  ICBC’s bond will provide lenders in the region with their
first gauge of demand and pricing for this new instrument in
dollars. Other Asian lenders have issued Basel III-compliant
bonds, which were denominated in local currencies. Malaysia’s
CIMB Bank Bhd said it completed the country’s first Basel III-compliant bond last month, while  Singapore ’s  United Overseas
Bank Ltd. (UOB)  said in July it sold the first Basel III-compliant
Additional Tier 1 capital any lender in Asia.  “There are a number of banks in Asia that are looking at
these types of instruments right now,” said Mark Young, head of
Asia Pacific financial institutions at Fitch. “For some markets
like China and India, banks are looking thin on capital.
Meanwhile for others, which are not receptive to equity raising,
this is a cheaper form of regulatory capital.”  CIMB issued a 750 million ringgit ($232 million) 10-year
subordinated bond in September and UOB S$850 million ($679
million) of 4.9 percent perpetual bonds in July.  Goldman Stake  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ended a seven-year investment in
ICBC this May and sold its $1.1 billion stake as Basel’s new
rules make it more expensive to hold minority stakes in banks.  Global regulators led by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  are seeking to increase banks’ protection against
future losses.  “Basel 3 compliant instruments are better positioned to
absorb losses if a bank approaches failure,” said Fitch’s
Young.“This makes them riskier from a debt-holder’s angle
compared to the legacy Basel 2 securities.”  The rating company downgraded ICBC’s 1.5 billion  yuan  ($245
million) Basel III-complaint Tier 2 notes to BBB+ from A- in
July, saying bondholders “could suffer a full loss, even if
ICBC Asia were to return to financial health.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  