-- Iceland Bank Creditors Won’t Get Special Treatment, Premier Says
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-10-03T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/iceland-bank-creditors-won-t-get-special-treatment-premier-says.html
The creditors of the three banks that
failed in 2008 won’t get any special treatment as the nation
seeks to exit  capital controls , Prime Minister Sigmundur David Gunnlaugsson said.  Abolishing capital controls on the creditors first would
mean that “the Treasury was indebting itself further in order
to increase the value of the claims,” Gunnlaugsson said in the
text of a speech  delivered in parliament  yesterday. “Icelandic
society would be left with hundreds of billions of kronur in
cost.”  Kaupthing Bank hf , Glitnir Bank hf and Landsbanki Islands
hf defaulted on a combined $85 billion in October 2008 after
running out of cash to sustain their debt-funded expansions. The
banking meltdown plunged the economy into its worst recession in
six decades, forcing the government to impose restrictions on
the krona and to seek an  International Monetary Fund  bailout.  Offshore creditors hold about $8 billion trapped behind the
capital controls as policy makers in the $14 billion economy
struggle to scale back the measures. Gunnlaugsson has said he
wants writedowns on 461 billion kronur ($3.8 billion) in claims
held by the creditors of Kaupthing, Glitnir and Landsbanki. That
would help the government ease the controls and deliver on
election promises of tax cuts and mortgage-debt writedowns.  A taskforce created to look into the execution of cutting
mortgage debt is supposed to deliver its proposals in November
and the work is “going well,” Gunnlaugsson told the Reykjavik-based  legislature . “Writedown of debts is first and foremost a
just economic act, which will give households the necessary
oxygen for them to breathe.”  Cutting  household debt  will happen parallel to writing down
the assets of creditors, according to the premier, which is the
premise to removing the country’s krona restrictions.  “Abolishing the controls is in the interest of
everybody,” said Gunnlaugsson. “It’s therefore in the common
interest of everybody to create the circumstances that allow the
abolishment of the controls.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  