-- IFMI to Cut 20% of Workforce in PrinceRidge Restructuring
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r ,   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-10-02T13:36:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/ifmi-to-cut-20-of-workforce-in-princeridge-restructuring.html
Institutional Financial Markets Inc. (IFMI) 
is cutting 20 percent of its workforce as the investment firm
consolidates its PrinceRidge and JVB Financial Group units into
a single broker-dealer.  PrinceRidge and JVB will operate under the JVB Financial
brand once it receives regulatory approval, Philadelphia-based
IFMI said today in a statement. That would mean the end of
PrinceRidge, which was started by two UBS AG bankers in 2009.
IFMI had 197 full-time staff as of Dec. 31, according to the
company’s annual report.  “Taking these steps will allow IFMI to enhance
profitability,” Chief Executive Officer Lester Brafman said in
the statement. “Becoming a leaner and more efficient company
means making a number of difficult decisions, including reducing
the size of our workforce.”  PrinceRidge was among 70 debt-trading startups in 2009 that
sought to capitalize on banks pulling back from markets amid the
worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. Many of the
younger firms have struggled in the past two years as larger
companies reasserted their dominance and credit trading slumped.  IMFI will take a pretax charge of $2 million to $2.5
million in the fourth quarter for employee and vendor
termination expenses, according to the statement.  IFMI reached a deal in 2011 to combine its capital markets
unit with PrinceRidge to expand in debt sales and trading, and
now owns most of the firm. Net trading revenue at PrinceRidge
and other IFMI capital markets units fell to $38.3 million last
year from $48.7 million in 2011, according to the annual report.
The drop “was primarily due to the decline in trading revenue
earned from trading in securitized products,” IFMI said in the
report.  The firm said last year that PrinceRidge’s founders, former
UBS bankers John Costas and Michael Hutchins, had left the
company.  IFMI  declined  2.6 percent to $2.26 yesterday in  New York .
The shares have gained 88 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  