-- Illinois Says Banks to Improve Loan-Modification Process
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-10-02T03:15:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/illinois-says-banks-to-improve-loan-modification-process.html
Bank of America Corp . and the four
other biggest U.S. mortgage servicers will put in place new
procedures to improve the process for borrowers to seek loan
modifications, Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan said.  Those new procedures are intended to remedy problems with
the implementation of a $25 billion, 49-state accord last year
with Bank of America,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , Citigroup Inc.,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Ally Bank, that settled allegations of
widespread “robosigning” of legal documents and other
fraudulent practices, Madigan said today in a statement.  “The bank servicing standards established in the national
settlement were supposed to eliminate headaches for borrowers,
but homeowners continue to report problems,” Madigan said.  Today’s agreement requires the lenders to give homeowners
30 more days to respond to requests for additional documents
before their homes can be referred for foreclosure or sale, the
attorney general said.  The banks also said they would increase their oversight of
those representatives communicating with borrowers about the
status of loan modification applications, she said.  San Francisco-based Wells Fargo and Charlotte-based Bank of
America agreed to additional strictures including provision of
an “escalation process” for borrowers encountering compliance
difficulty.  Wells Fargo faces an enforcement action tomorrow for
allegedly violating terms of the 2012 pact in  New York , a person
familiar with the matter said.  The action, in the form of a motion to compel compliance
with the agreement, is to be filed by New York Attorney General
Eric Schneiderman in federal court in  Washington , said the
person, who asked not to be identified because the matter isn’t
public. A federal judge in Washington approved the $25 billion
agreement last year.  The Washington case is U.S. v.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , 12-cv-00361, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in federal court in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  