-- Linc Plans to Sell Shares to Investors in Shift to Singapore
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-10-02T07:14:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/linc-energy-plans-to-sell-shares-in-shift-to-singapore-exchange.html
Linc Energy Ltd. (LNC) , the Australian
company studying a gas-to-liquids venture in  Russia  with
billionaire Roman Abramovich, said it plans to raise money
selling shares in a move to  Singapore ’s stock exchange and
flagged its intention to buy coal assets.  The company will seek shareholder approval next month to
drop its listing in Sydney and request regulatory permission to
trade in Singapore in a bid to attract investors and boost its
value, Brisbane-based Linc said today in a statement. The
company said it will keep its headquarters in Australia.  Shares of Linc  fell 11 percent to A$1.2575 in Sydney, the
most in more than three months, paring its gain for 2013 to 7.5
percent. The S&P/ASX 200 Index has risen 12 percent this year.
Linc then halted its shares pending the company reaching a deal
to acquire coal-mining assets in  Australia ’s Queensland state,
it said in a separate statement.  The company, which is in talks with potential
“cornerstone” investors as part of the proposed Singapore
listing, wants to tap rising demand for energy shares, Chief
Executive Officer Peter Bond told reporters today in Sydney.
Linc reached a deal earlier this year with Abramovich, the owner
of Chelsea Football Club, and hired Barclays Plc to help find a
partner to develop shale oil prospects in central Australia.  “Singapore is becoming an energy hub of Asia,” Bond said.
“They are starved of energy-company opportunity.”  Listing on the Singapore exchange, “will help unlock the
value” of the company’s oil, gas and coal assets, Linc said.
“The company believes that the SGX is an ideal trading platform
to broaden its investor base and improve access to international
oil and gas and energy investors.”  Linc hasn’t decided how much money it intends to raise in a
share sale, Bond said. The company is in talks with two or three
possible “cornerstone” investors, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  