-- Italian Lesson for Washington’s Republican Minority
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2013-10-02T03:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/italian-lesson-for-washington-s-republican-minority.html
This week  Silvio Berlusconi ,  Italy ’s
former prime minister, convicted tax cheat and survivor of
serial scandals, ordered ministers from his People of Liberty
party to quit the ruling coalition and thus  bring down  Italy’s
beleaguered five-month-old government.  It remains to be seen whether Berlusconi’s gambit will
restore his political fortunes -- but, then again, you might
think, Who cares? Everybody knows that Italy is ungovernable,
that its system of government is a joke at home and abroad, and
that the country’s own citizens hold their leaders in contempt.
Italy’s political class condemns a potentially vibrant world-class economy to chronic underperformance as the country lurches
from crisis to crisis. What else is new?  Only this: Italy appears to be getting some company. I
commend it as a case study for the faction of the U.S.
 Republican Party  that seems to see government by crisis as a
mark of integrity and a kind of public service. Demanding first
the repeal and then a delay in the introduction of the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act, Republicans shut down the
federal government on Tuesday. Next, they threatened to force
the U.S. government to default on its debts. The first, if it
doesn’t go on too long, is a costly nuisance; the second, should
it happen, threatens financial and economic catastrophe.  Heavy Obligations  The Republicans say they are standing on principle. They
apparently see health-care reform as an existential threat, a
peril that justifies any political countermeasure, however
damaging. Berlusconi says much the same about the 1 percentage-point increase in the value-added tax, to which he and his party
object. To avoid the damage that he says this tax increase would
do, he is willing to wreck his country’s prospects of recovery.
How could that possibly make sense? Because it’s a matter of
principle.  The framers of the  U.S. Constitution  designed a system
capable of excellent results -- and the success of their model
over the years has indeed surpassed all plausible expectations.
But their design, however ingenious, isn’t fated to succeed. It
can be corrupted by a sufficient number of people of bad faith
or -- as in this case -- by an organized departure from the
norms of good political conduct. Make no mistake: Something akin
to Italian politics is a possible future for the  United States .
The U.S. can blight its own prospects and make itself a
laughingstock, too. It’s happening right now.  One of the many ironies in this situation is that the
Republican faction that is willing to plunge the country into
crisis after manufactured crisis also sees itself as the
guardian of the American constitutional exception. Tea Party
Republicans rightly point out that they’re only doing what the
Constitution empowers them to do. Its design is avowedly
nonmajoritarian. It provides for divided, and hence deliberately
indecisive, government. The checks and balances that protect
minority viewpoints and restrain the power of the majority
aren’t an unintended side effect; they’re the whole point. It’s
not good enough to say, as the Democrats did after 2008, that
“elections have consequences” -- as though that validates
anything the winner might choose to do.  But a system of structurally indecisive government also
puts heavy obligations on the elected representatives who find
themselves in the minority. To work at its best, it requires a
willingness to strike compromises and strive for consensus -- a
sentiment that once prevailed in  Washington , and which goes far
to explain the country’s astonishing success but lately has all
but vanished.  If consensus is no longer possible, that’s worrying enough.
Far worse, though, is a partisanship so bitter -- and a standing
on principle so implacable -- that the country itself is held to
ransom to make a point. Let the economy crash: better that than
a health-care law not to our liking. This is the mode that the
no-compromise wing of the Republican Party has adopted. Look to
Italy to see where it might lead.  Seizing Opportunity  There’s no quick, easy answer to the two parties’ mutual
loathing and the damage it is capable of doing in the U.S.
constitutional setting. With luck, however, two partial remedies
could emerge from the latest standoff.  First, although I’m no card-carrying Democrat, I hope that
independent and moderate Republican voters will turn on the
government-by-crisis Republican faction at the next election and
make plain that its kind of politics isn’t wanted. All the
incentives in the U.S. electoral system are stacked against this
outcome, I understand, but one can hope. President  Barack Obama 
and his party can advance this prospect by avoiding equal and
offsetting partisan rancor and sparing no effort to present
themselves as reasonable, rational and consensus-seeking.
Extremist Republicans have given them a remarkable opportunity
to seize and hold the center of the country.  Second, I also hope that the country’s broken budget
mechanism can be mended. Failing to pass a measure to authorize
spending should never have the consequence of shutting down the
government; failing to pass a measure that raises the debt
ceiling should never lead to default. It’s one thing to give a
minority veto power over discretionary legislation -- something
the framers intended -- but quite another to give a minority the
power to wreck the economy merely by doing nothing if it doesn’t
get its way.  The necessary dispensation is simple: Spending and taxes
(hence borrowing, too) continue at previously authorized levels
unless Congress votes to change them. Perhaps a deal along those
lines can be done. If no-compromise Republicans aren’t convinced
by the Italian future awaiting the U.S. on present trends, they
might at least calculate that their positions will one day be
reversed, and Democrats will one day be a minority trying to
block them.  The U.S. is so confident of its greatness that it can’t
imagine ever being reduced to the status of an ordinary country.
Despite all its strengths and still-limitless potential, its
current trajectory points in a far more ominous direction. The
constitution that delivered the country to its present eminence
is capable, in the wrong hands, of leading it to ruin. Voters
must reflect on that, and then impress it on the people they
elect.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  ccrook5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 