-- Italy’s Letta Wins Confidence Vote as Berlusconi Backs Down
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o ,   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-10-02T19:50:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/italy-s-letta-survives-confidence-vote-as-berlusconi-backs-down.html
Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta
won confidence votes in parliament today after Silvio Berlusconi
backtracked on a pledge to bring down the five-month-old
government as his party showed signs of deserting him.  Letta won the support of the Chamber of Deputies, the lower
house of parliament, where he has a solid majority. Earlier
today in  Rome , the prime minister was supported by 235 senators
with 70 opposed. That followed by hours former Premier
Berlusconi’s announcement that he would support the government,
reversing an earlier pledge to oppose Letta.  Berlusconi said the decision was taken for the good of the
country after a period of “internal strife” within his party.
“ Italy  needs a government that can undertake institutional and
structural reforms,” he said during a speech in parliament.  Letta called the confidence vote after Berlusconi pulled
his ministers from the government Sept. 28, setting off a week
of political turmoil. Cracks in Berlusconi’s People of Liberty
party, or PDL, began to show when prominent figures including
Deputy Premier Angelino Alfano said they’d vote for the
government.  “Berlusconi might have been convinced by the extreme risks
of internal division within his party,” Annalisa Piazza, an
analyst at Newedge Group in  London , said in an e-mailed note.  Berlusconi had repeatedly threatened to bring down the
government if Letta’s Democratic Party voted to expel him from
the Senate following his definitive conviction for tax fraud in
August. A public hearing in a Senate committee on the matter is
scheduled for Oct. 4.  Fragmented Parliament  Berlusconi, forced out as prime minister in 2011, brought
down his successor, Mario Monti, in December 2012. The
fragmented parliament elected in February has been incapable of
enacting a program to pull Italy from its two-year recession.  This week’s crisis blocked the approval of economic
measures including the delay of a planned VAT increase.  Stock and bonds rose as the political tensions threatening
the euro region’s third-largest economy abated. The benchmark
FTSE MIB index rose 0.7 percent, after yesterday rallying as
much as 3.1 percent, while the yield on the Italian 10-year bond
fell five basis points to 4.37 percent.  “Berlusconi is losing his grip on politics,” said Allan
von Mehren, chief analyst at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Copenhagen. “It
seems like he doesn’t have the backing of his party anymore so
it’s likely he won’t be as powerful in the future.”  Alfano Group  The turning point in the political struggle came late
yesterday when Berlusconi ally Alfano broke away from his mentor
saying he’d back Letta. Alfano is attempting to form a new group
in parliament, Ansa news agency reported today after the Senate
confidence vote.  Alfano “seems to come out of this experience
strengthened,” PDL party Senator Sacconi said in an interview
today after the vote. “Berlusconi is confirmed as a charismatic
leader” and Alfano “is confirmed as the leader of the
future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome  at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  