-- Italy’s Bonds Rise as Letta Wins Vote; Portugal Securities Slide
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-10-02T15:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/italian-bonds-rise-a-2nd-day-as-letta-thwarts-berlusconi-revolt.html
Italy ’s government bonds rose for a
second day as Prime Minister Enrico Letta won a confidence vote
in parliament, avoiding the risk of sending the country to
another election.  The nation’s  two-year yields  dropped to the lowest level in
eight weeks after former premier  Silvio Berlusconi  backtracked
on a pledge to bring down the government amid signs his party
would desert him. Portuguese bonds slumped, halting a four-day
advance. German bunds were little changed as the European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  repeated plans to keep
borrowing costs low for as long as necessary.  “Letta has managed to hold it together and keep the
government in place, so obviously this is at the very least a
short-term positive,” said Owen Callan, an analyst at  Danske
Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Dublin. “The bigger question is now whether
Berlusconi loses his status as the leader of the right, and
whether we get a more stable political environment in Italy
going forward. This would reduce the political  risk premium ”
and boost Italian bonds, he said.  Italy’s 10-year yield fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 4.37 percent at 4:47 p.m.  London  time. The
4.5 percent bond maturing in March 2024 rose 0.4, or 4 euros per
1,000-euro ($1,359) face amount, to 101.48. The yield dropped 15
basis points yesterday.  The two-year  rate  declined seven basis points to 1.69
percent after sliding to 1.66 percent, the least since Aug. 7.  Letta’s Victory  Letta was supported by 235 senators while 70 opposed him
during today’s vote in  Rome . As the decision approached,
Berlusconi announced he would support the government, reversing
an earlier pledge to oppose the prime minister.  Letta had called the confidence vote after Berlusconi
pulled his ministers from the government Sept. 28. Cracks in
Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party began to appear when
prominent figures including party secretary  Angelino Alfano  said
they’d vote for the government.  Portugal ’s 10-year yields jumped the most in two weeks amid
speculation their decline yesterday to the lowest since August
was excessive  Yields may also have increased as optimism the political
turmoil in Italy will be resolved prompted investors to sell the
securities in favor of Italian debt, according to Gianluca Ziglio, executive director of fixed-income research at Sunrise
Brokers LLP in London.  Portugal’s  10-year yield  jumped 18 basis points to 6.77
percent, the biggest increase since Sept. 13. It fell 47 basis
points in the previous four days.  Worst Performers  The country’s bonds were the euro region’s worst-performing
securities last quarter, according to Bloomberg World Bond
Indexes. They fell 0.8 percent as a rift emerged in the
government over budget policy and amid concern the country may
need a second economic support program.  “There are rising odds that the country will need another
bailout,” said Alessandro Giansanti, a senior rates strategist
at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “Hence, investors are becoming
nervous as another bailout will come with political pressure for
private investors’ involvement.”  The ECB kept its main refinancing  rate  at a record-low 0.5
percent for a sixth month, as predicted by all 52 economists in
a Bloomberg News survey.  ‘Extended Period’  “The Governing Council confirms the key ECB interest rate
to remain at the current or lower level for an extended period
of time,” Draghi said in Paris after the decision was
announced. The ECB is ready to inject more cash into the economy
via new longer-term refinancing operations if required, he said.  Germany ’s 10-year yield was at 1.81 percent after declining
to 1.74 percent on Sept. 30, the lowest level since Aug. 13.  The German government sold 4.06 billion euros of 10-year
bunds today at an average yield of 1.79 percent, compared with
2.06 percent at the previous auction on Sept. 11. Investors bid
for 1.3 times the amount sold.  Spanish 10-year yields rose eight basis points to 4.25
percent before the nation sells 3.5 billion euros of bonds
maturing between 2018 and 2023 tomorrow.  Italian bonds returned 4.5 percent this year through
yesterday, according to the Bloomberg World Bond Indexes.
Spanish securities rose 9.9 percent, while German bunds dropped
1.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  