-- JPMorgan Names McNamer to Oversee Expanded Charitable Giving
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-10-02T15:05:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/jpmorgan-names-mcnamer-to-oversee-expanded-charitable-giving.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest
U.S. bank, appointed nonprofit executive Bruce McNamer to run
its global philanthropic initiatives as the company expands
charitable giving.  McNamer will oversee all of JPMorgan’s donations in newly
created roles as chief executive officer of the JPMorgan Chase
Foundation and the corporation’s head of global philanthropy,
the company said in a statement today. He’s spent the last nine
years running TechnoServe, a charitable group that helps build
farms, businesses and industries in developing countries.  “The private sector needs to step up and do its part to
address the critical challenges we face,” JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon said in the statement.  Dalila Wilson-Scott, who has run the foundation since the
beginning of the year, will succeed Kimberly Davis as the
permanent president of the foundation, the company said. Wilson-Scott came from the corporate merger office and served in
strategic planning in the consumer and commercial banking
businesses, according to the New York-based lender. McNamer and
Wilson-Scott will report to Peter Scher, who oversees corporate
responsibility.  Davis left in November, according to a person with direct
knowledge of the matter who wasn’t authorized to comment
publicly on the departure. She’s listed as a managing director
on the  website  of Teneo Holdings, a  New York  consulting firm.  The JPMorgan Chase Foundation announced a partnership last
week with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to finance
technologies that fight killer diseases in low-income countries.
Gates founded Microsoft Corp., the software firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  