-- Kaiser’s BOK Buys GTrust for Kansas Wealth-Management Expansion
-- B y   F a n n i   K o s z e g
-- 2013-10-02T16:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/kaiser-s-bok-buys-gtrust-for-kansas-wealth-management-expansion.html
BOK Financial Corp. (BOKF) , the Oklahoma
lender majority owned by billionaire oilman  George Kaiser ,
purchased wealth-management firm GTrust Financial Corp. to
expand in Kansas.  The acquisition will increase BOK’s assets under management
by $600 million, the Tulsa-based lender said today in a
statement. The deal, terms of which weren’t disclosed, is
expected to be completed before year-end, the company said.  GTrust, founded in 1991, provides wealth-management
services to clients in Kansas with 30 trust and investment
professionals, according to the statement. BOK, which expanded
its wealth-management business in  Colorado  last year with the
purchase of Denver-based Milestone Group, has 225 branches in 10
states, according to the statement. It had 4,712 employees and
$27.8 billion of assets as of June 30, a filing shows.  “This acquisition provides us with new wealth-management
products and expertise, a talented and creative team of wealth-management entrepreneurs who have built and grown a successful
business, and an expanded presence in the important  Kansas 
market,” BOK Senior Executive Vice President Steve Bradshaw
said in the statement.  Kaiser, 70, BOK’s chairman and  majority owner , is the
world’s 70th-wealthiest person, with an estimated fortune of
$13.6 billion, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  BOK fell 1.4 percent to $62.99 at 11:40 a.m. in New York.
The shares have climbed 16 percent this year, trailing the 27
percent gain for the 50-company KBW Regional Banking Index.  Frederic Dorwart, a trustee of the George Kaiser Family
Foundation and a longtime attorney for the billionaire’s various
banking and energy companies, provided legal counsel to BOK.
Shumaker Loop & Kendrick LLP advised Topeka-based GTrust.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fanni Koszeg in New York at 
 fkoszeg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  