-- GTC Developer Says Kardan Plans to Sell Controlling Stake
-- B y   M a r t a   W a l d o c h   a n d   P i o t r   B u j n i c k i
-- 2013-10-02T11:21:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/kardan-seeks-buyers-for-controlling-stake-in-developer.html
Kardan NV (KARD) , the Amsterdam-based real
estate investment company, is seeking to sell its controlling
stake in Globe Trade Centre SA, Poland’s second-largest property
developer, to pay back its own debt.  “A few” investors are performing due diligence on the
Warsaw-based company and the process could lead to a sale of
Kardan’s 27.8 percent holding to a strategic investor this year,
Kardan and GTC said in regulatory statements today. The stake’s
market value was 643 million zloty ($206 million) based on
yesterday’s closing price on the Warsaw Stock Exchange.  Kardan is raising cash to improve liquidity and meet “loan
repayment obligations,” including  payback of debt  due in
February 2014 and in 2015, it said in the statement. The company
sold 15 percent of GTC for 754.7 million zloty in 2011 to
financial investors and 160.8 million zloty of shares on the
stock market in 2009, according to  data compiled by Bloomberg .  “The news is positive in the medium term as it reduces the
risk of share placement on the market,” Andrzej Knigawka, an
analyst at ING Groep NV’s Warsaw unit, said by phone. “The
chances of a transaction materializing are high as GTC said that
there are several companies conducting due diligence.”  Shares Jump  Kardan  shares  surged the most in five months in Amsterdam
trading, climbing as much as 14 percent. GTC jumped as much as
5.4 percent and traded 2.8 percent higher at 7.45 zloty as of
1:19 p.m. in Warsaw, trimming  this year’s  drop to 25 percent.  Acquiring a strategic investor “might support GTC with its
asset disposal and development plans,” Malgorzata Kloka, an
analyst at UniCredit SpA in Warsaw wrote in a note today.  GTC, which focuses on office buildings, shopping centers
and residential properties, posted losses in eight of the last
nine quarters as eastern Europe’s economic slowdown cut the
value of properties.  “Investors welcomed the announcement as Kardan is selling
the stake due to its challenging liquidity position and not
because GTC is a bad investment,” Cezary Bernatek, a Warsaw-based analyst at Banco Espirito Santo SA, said by phone.  Kardan, which hired Citigroup Inc. to advise on the sale,
was cut to junk at Standard & Poor’s Maalot in March on a delay
in selling assets “critical” for the company to fulfill its
“significant debt repayments.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net ;
Piotr Bujnicki in Warsaw at 
 pbujnicki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  