-- Kenyan Mall-Attack Death Toll Climbs as Bodies Found in Rubble
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2013-10-02T06:58:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/kenyan-mall-attack-death-toll-climbs-as-bodies-found-in-rubble.html
Kenyan police found two more bodies
while searching through the rubble at a shopping mall in the
capital, raising the death toll from an attack by Islamist
gunmen that killed at least 67 civilians and security personnel.  The police have yet to determine the identity of the
remains, police spokeswoman Zipporah Mboroki said in a phone
interview today from Nairobi. Kenyan newspapers including the
Standard and People reported today that the remains of at least
eight people were found at the scene of the Sept. 21 raid. Four
empty magazine cartridges from an automatic weapon were also
found at the scene, Mboroki said.  The death toll has risen “because these are newly found
bodies,” Mboroki said. “At this juncture we cannot verify the
identities of the bodies.”  The four-day raid on the mall was the deadliest since al-Qaeda bombed the U.S. Embassy in downtown Nairobi 15 years ago,
killing more than 200 people. Al-Shabaab, a militia that’s been
fighting to establish an Islamic state in Somalia since at least
2006, claimed responsibility for the latest attack. The group
warned of more bloodshed unless  Kenya  withdraws its forces from
southern Somalia, where they have liberated territory previously
controlled by the fighters.  As many as 15 gunmen were involved in the attack and five
were killed, according to the  Interior Ministry . A forensic
investigation at the mall, in which three floors of the four-story building collapsed, will take seven days, Interior
Minister Joseph Ole Lenku said on Sept. 25.  A commission of inquiry is examining how Kenya failed to
detect the planning for the attack and is preparing measures to
avoid a similar incident in the future, Kenyan President Uhuru
Kenyatta said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Nairobi at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  