-- KPN Shareholders Approve Sale of German Unit to Telefonica
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2013-10-02T15:57:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/kpn-shareholders-approve-sale-of-e-plus-in-germany-to-telefonica.html
Royal KPN NV (KPN)  shareholders approved
the 8.55 billion-euro ($11.6 billion) sale of the phone
company’s German business to  Telefonica SA (TEF)  to create the
country’s largest wireless carrier by customers.  Investors who met in The Hague today agreed to the sale of
the E-Plus unit to  Telefonica Deutschland Holding AG. (O2D)  KPN is
“fully confident” that it will win regulatory approval by
mid-2014, Chief Executive Officer Eelco Blok said.  “This is a very important deal for the industry,” Blok
said after the meeting. “It’s the first really large deal in
the largest economy in Europe, so it will be important for the
future of the telcos in Europe.”  The transaction is closely watched by European carriers
because any sign that regulators in Brussels are warming to
consolidation within national boundaries could trigger what
 Orange SA (ORA)  CEO Stephane Richard last month called an
“earthquake.”  Carlos Slim ’s America Movil SAB, with an almost
30 percent stake in KPN, is also following the vote results as
it weighs a bid for majority control of the Netherlands’ biggest
phone company.  KPN shares fell 0.6 percent to close at 2.35 euros in
Amsterdam. America Movil rose less than 1 percent to 13.48 pesos
in Mexico City at 10:36 a.m.  Foundation Abstains  An independent foundation with almost half of KPN’s shares
abstained from the vote.  KPN agreed to sell E-Plus to Madrid-based Telefonica’s
German unit in July in an 8.1 billion-euro transaction.
Telefonica sweetened its bid the following month to win the
backing of  America Movil .  The sale should enable KPN, which will receive 5 billion
euros in cash and own 20.5 percent of the enlarged German
mobile-phone company, to pay a dividend next year, Blok said.
“The proceeds of E-Plus are of such a magnitude that we can
continue to invest in our company,” he said.  E-Plus and Telefonica, which sells services under the O2
brand, together would have a customer base of 43.8 million as of
June, surpassing  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s 32.2 million and  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE) ’s 37.5 million in  Germany , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg Industries. Counting wireless-service revenue,
Telefonica and E-Plus together remained smaller than Deutsche
Telekom’s T-Mobile and Vodafone.  KPN Bid?  KPN is pushing America Movil to raise its 2.40 euro-a-share
takeover bid to about 2.65 euros, arguing that a tax offset from
E-Plus’s sale makes it more valuable, people familiar with the
matter said this week, who asked not to be identified because
the talks are private. America Movil is pointing to  Ziggo NV (ZIGGO) ’s
entry into the Dutch mobile market as evidence of deteriorating
prospects to justify its valuation, the people said.  “We are having constructive discussions with them,” said
Blok, who added that he’s been personally running the
negotiations with America Movil since Chief Financial Officer
Eric Hageman stepped down last month. “It’s about the right
balance between price, governance and non-financial
commitments.”  America Movil, based in Mexico City, said last week it
probably won’t make a formal offer until this month because it
needs more time to negotiate with the Dutch carrier. KPN’s
foundation, the organization set up to protect the company’s
interests, exercised an option in August to acquire preferred
shares to impede what it described as a hostile takeover.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Ewing in The Hague at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Pals in The Hague at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  