-- Iceland Avoids Rate Increase After Supporting Krona Market
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-10-02T10:05:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/krona-interventions-help-iceland-central-bank-avoid-rate-rise.html
Iceland’s central bank left its main
 interest rate  unchanged for a seventh consecutive meeting after
cooling inflation by intervening in the  currency market .  The seven-day collateral lending rate was kept at 6
percent, Reykjavik-based  Sedlabanki  said today in a statement on
its website.  Iceland said in February it would start buying kronur to
help fight  consumer price gains  and take pressure off interest
rates. Policy makers are trying to protect the currency from
losses as they work to phase out capital controls in place since
the island’s 2008 economic meltdown.  “The bank’s intervention in the foreign exchange market
has contributed to reduced exchange rate volatility,” the bank
said in the statement. Inflation expectations remain elevated
because of “uncertainty” over foreign creditors, the
settlement of the failed banks, capital control easing and wage
negotiations, the bank said.  The krona has gained more than 6 percent against the euro
from a low in January, helping bring inflation down to 3.9
percent last month, from more than 6 percent last year. The
central bank raised rates six times from August 2011 to November
last year to cool inflation after the krona weakened.  The government yesterday unveiled its first budget and said
it expects a surplus next year as it raises taxes on banks. The
income will in part be used to pay for income tax cuts. The
central bank said in August it is “critical” that the state’s
finances be brought into “balance as soon as possible.”  “Future fiscal policy has been clarified to some extent
with the presentation of the new fiscal budget proposal,” bank
said today.  Economic Outlook  The central bank’s August forecast shows the economy will
expand 1.9 percent this year and 2.8 percent in 2014. Inflation
will average 3.8 percent in 2013, 3.1 percent next year and
won’t reach the bank’s 2.5 percent target until the second
quarter of 2016, versus an earlier assessment for the end of
2014, the bank said then.  “According to first estimates, GDP growth in the first
half of 2013 measured just over 2 percent, somewhat stronger
than was assumed in the Bank’s August forecast,” the bank said.
“The recovery of the labor market also continues.”   ‘Action Plan’  Prime Minister Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson in June promised a
new “action plan” to cut  household debt  burdens that he says
are hampering Iceland’s recovery. He also pledged to enact
changes to the island’s  capital controls . A taskforce appointed
to present proposals on how to achieve the government’s goals is
due to deliver its results in November.  Gunnlaugsson’s Progressive Party and his coalition partner,
the Independence Party, ousted the Social Democrat-led coalition
in April after promising tax cuts and mortgage debt relief.  Iceland, which completed a 33-month International Monetary
Fund program in August 2011, is now outgrowing much of  Europe  as
it recovers from its recession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  