-- N.Z. Treasury Saw Risks in RBNZ Governor as Sole Rate Setter
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2013-10-02T22:33:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/n-z-treasury-saw-risks-in-rbnz-governor-as-sole-rate-setter-1-.html
New Zealand ’s Treasury told the
government last year there are risks in the  Reserve Bank 
governor being the sole decider on  interest rates  and it should
consider a move to a committee structure, internal documents
released under the Official Information Act show.  “The current single-decision-maker approach poses risks,
such as a greater risk of poor judgment by a future governor
than with a committee,” the Treasury wrote in a report on the
Reserve Bank’s Policy Targets Agreement dated May 10 last year.
“On balance, we think there would be benefits to moving towards
a monetary policy committee in future.”  While Reserve Bank documents released to the  Green Party  in
August showed the Treasury had urged a review of the governor’s
powers, they didn’t outline the Treasury’s concerns, as these
documents do. Finance Minister  Bill English  said last month that
the government wasn’t considering a change to the central bank’s
decision-making structure.  Most central banks from developed nations, including the
U.S. Federal Reserve,  Bank of England  and  European Central Bank ,
take policy decisions by committee. The Green Party is
campaigning for a change to allow the New Zealand central bank
board to make the decision, arguing the governor’s current power
leads to poorer decisions that don’t reflect the wider economic
interests at stake.  “It is time for there to be a serious debate about
improving decision making and accountability at the Reserve
Bank, and to bring our decision making into line with other
central banks,” a Green Party spokesperson wrote in an emailed
statement.  Accountability  The RBNZ declined to comment, Head of Communications Mike Hannah said by telephone yesterday.  “I don’t think anyone has been able to show that there’ll
be a significant gain” from changing the decision-making model,
English said in a Sept. 18 interview. “Our governor effectively
uses a committee to make the decision and we don’t see any
particular gains from changing it. The feature of our system is
very clear, accountability, and that’s our preference.”  In the paper dated May 10, 2012, the Treasury said it had
reconsidered its initial opposition to the RBNZ moving to a
policy committee.  “New Zealand’s model increasingly looks out of line with
common international practice,” it wrote, noting the  Bank of
Israel  was the most recent central bank to move to a committee
structure. It said the RBNZ’s role had broadened and this “may
increase the range of skills required by a future governor.”  Final Decision  Furthermore, “our external engagements with private
economists have indicated a preference for a committee
structure,” the Treasury wrote. “Their views seemed more about
minimizing future risk of poor decisions rather than a sense
that decisions have been poor in the past.”  The Reserve Bank governor makes the final decision on
interest rates after taking advice from officials who don’t vote
and whose deliberations aren’t released publicly. The Treasury
noted there is “no requirement” for the Advisory Group to be a
permanent feature.  The May 2012 paper was advice for English in anticipation
of a new policy targets agreement after Alan Bollard announced
he would not seek another term at the helm of the RBNZ. Graeme Wheeler took over on Sept. 26 last year.  “The end of the governor’s term provides a natural
opportunity to consider whether there should be changes to the
PTA,” the Treasury wrote. It recommended increasing the focus
on the 2 percent mid-point of the 1 percent to 3 percent
inflation target -- advice adopted by English and included in
the new PTA.  Reserve Bank Act  It said changes to the decision-making model would require
alterations to the Reserve Bank Act, and the hurdle for change
should be high.  “However, in principle there are potential benefits of a
committee model, although these would depend on the design of
the committee,” it said.  “Further work to consider options for a committee
structure would ideally be undertaken in conjunction with the
Reserve Bank, although no such work is currently planned. We
recommend that you discuss the merits of a monetary policy
committee with the incoming Governor with a view to reaching a
decision on the merits of a committee and implementing any
changes within the Governor’s first term.”  Since his appointment, Wheeler has established a governor’s
committee including his two deputies and the assistant governor
to oversee all policy decisions.  “Although in the RBNZ’s case they have a single decision
maker, they’ve set up internal committees that provide him with
guidance,” said Paul Bloxham, chief  Australia  and New Zealand
economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in Sydney and a former Reserve
Bank of Australia economist. “So in practice, I don’t think
it’s the case that it would be that much different if they
actually had a formal board versus what they have at the
moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Wellington at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  