-- National Air Cargo Sues U.S. in Afghan Military Crash
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-10-02T19:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/national-air-cargo-sues-u-s-in-afghan-military-crash.html
National Air Cargo Group Inc. and its
insurer sued the U.S. for breach of contract, saying the
government failed to provide reimbursement of as much as $45
million for the crash of a Boeing 747-400 on a military mission
in  Afghanistan  that killed seven crew members.  The  Federal Aviation Administration  improperly denied a
claim to pay out on an insurance policy covering aircraft
contractors working for the Defense Department in a hostile
setting, according to a complaint filed yesterday by the air
carrier and Commerce & Industry Insurance Co. in the U.S. Court
of Federal Claims in  Washington .  Commerce & Industry Insurance is a unit of  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)   The policy requires that the FAA “shall make prompt
payment in full of any claim covered by the policy after
confirmation of loss,” the companies said in the complaint.  Laura Brown , a spokeswoman for the FAA, said in an e-mail
that the agency doesn’t comment on pending litigation.  Commerce & Industry Insurance paid National Air Cargo and
its lenders about $42 million to settle a claim for the loss of
the plane, according to the suit.  The plane involved in the crash was working under a
National Air Cargo contract with the U.S. Transportation
Command.  Crash Video  The accident on April 29 near Bagram Airfield, the  U.S. Air
Force Base  outside Bagram, Afghanistan, was captured on the
dashboard-mounted camera of a nearby vehicle and  posted  on
Google Inc.’s YouTube website.  In August, the estates of three pilots killed in the crash
sued Boeing Co. in state court in  Illinois , alleging negligient
conversion of the plane from passenger to cargo use.  The cases are pending.  The Bagram crash was the fourth fatal accident involving a
U.S.-registered cargo hauler since 2009, according to the
 National Transportation Safety Board . No U.S.-based passengers
have had a fatal accident since Feb. 12, 2009, when 49 people
died near Buffalo,  New York , in the crash of a regional
turboprop operated by Pinnacle Airlines Corp.’s former Colgan
unit.  The case is National Air Cargo Group Inc. v. U.S., 13-cv-00764, U.S. Court of Federal Claims (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  