-- Natural Gas Slides on Outlook for Above-Average U.S. Supply Gain
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-10-02T19:33:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/natural-gas-futures-climb-as-storm-approaches-gulf-of-mexico.html
Natural gas futures dropped in  New
York  for the second time this week on speculation that mild
weather will accelerate the pace of U.S. inventory increases.  Gas fell 1.9 percent. U.S. stockpiles expanded by 95
billion cubic feet last week, based on the median of 16  analyst
estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The five-year average gain for
the seven days is 82 billion cubic feet, according to the Energy
Information Administration, which is scheduled to release its
weekly supply report tomorrow.  “With waning air-conditioning demand we are seeing a rise
in inventory injections,” said Teri Viswanath, director of
commodities strategy at BNP Paribas SA in New York. “The tug of
war is whether investors should stay present in the current
well-supplied market or look at ahead at what will likely be
heavier heating demand in the fourth quarter.”  Natural gas for November delivery slid 6.7 cents to settle
at $3.542 per million British thermal units on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Trading volume was 17 percent below the
100-day average at 2:37 p.m. Prices have climbed 5.7 percent
this year.  The discount of November to December futures widened 0.4
cent to 16 cents. November gas traded 26.1 cents  below  the
January contract, compared with 25.3 cents yesterday.  November $3.55 puts were the most active options in
electronic trading. They were 2.5 cents higher at 11.6 cents per
million Btu on volume of 900 at 2:54 p.m. Puts accounted for 65
percent of trading volume. Implied volatility for November at-the-money options was 29.84 percent at 2:45 p.m., compared with
30.42 percent yesterday.  The amount of gas injected into storage caverns picked up
in late September as temperatures dropped.  Supply Report  U.S. stockpiles  totaled 3.386 trillion cubic feet in the
week ended Sept. 20, 0.9 percent above the five-year average for
the period, the EIA said last week. The  surplus  to the average
widened from 0.5 percent the previous week. A  deficit  versus
year-earlier levels narrowed to 5 percent from 5.4 percent.  Gas futures rose in earlier trading on speculation that a
weather system brewing in the Caribbean would strengthen as it
moved into the  Gulf of Mexico , disrupting offshore output. The
storm has a 70 percent chance of becoming a tropical storm in
the next 48 hours, the  National Hurricane Center  said in a 2
p.m. advisory.  The cluster of storms near  Mexico ’s Yucatan Peninsula poses
a “very low” threat to oil and gas output in the Gulf even if
it gains strength, said  Matt Rogers , president of the Commodity
Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland .  Gulf Evacuations  While the storm may trigger precautionary evacuations,
“upcoming Yucatan land interaction and high Gulf wind shear
should weaken the system before it reaches the production
region,” Rogers said in an e-mail.  BP Plc is evacuating non-essential personnel from four
production platforms it operates in deep waters of the Gulf, the
company said in a website notice.  Destin Pipeline Company LLC is evacuating all non-essential
personnel from gas lines operated by BP in the central and
eastern Gulf as part of a severe weather plan, the company said
in a website notice. The Destin and Okeanos pipelines will
continue to accept flow as long as weather conditions permit,
the company said.  The 100-mile Okeanos line offshore  Louisiana , which extends
from  Mississippi  Canyon Block 778 to the Main Pass 260 Block to
connect with the Destin line, has a capacity of 1 billion cubic
feet a day, according to BP’s  website . Destin’s capacity is 1.2
billion and flows to Pascagoula, Mississippi, where it then
connects to six interstate gas lines.  Gulf Production  The Gulf will account for 5.6 percent of U.S. gas
production this year, down from 14 percent in 2007, according to
the EIA. The region’s share of gas output has declined amid
rising supplies from shale deposits in the lower 48 states.  Above-normal temperatures from the East Coast through the
Midwest will linger through the weekend before easing next week,
Jim Southard, meteorologist with Frontier Weather Inc. in Tulsa,
 Oklahoma , said in an e-mail late yesterday. Cities from
 Washington  to  Boston  will see the warmest weather for today’s
date since 2002, he said.  The high in Washington today may be 86 degrees Fahrenheit
(30 Celsius), 13 above normal, and New York may be 16 higher
than usual at 85 degrees, according to AccuWeather Inc. in  State
College ,  Pennsylvania . Chicago’s high will be 10 above average
at 78 degrees.  Mild overnight lows in the Midwest and the Northeast
“should also curtail the need for people to run their heat,”
Southard said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  