-- New York City Marathon Signs Tata Consultancy as Title Sponsor
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-10-02T17:56:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/new-york-city-marathon-signs-tata-consultancy-as-title-sponsor.html
The New York Road Runners signed  Tata
Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) ,  Asia ’s largest computer-services
exporter by market value, as the title sponsor of the  New York
City Marathon  beginning next year.  The annual race through the five boroughs will be known as
the TCS New York City Marathon under an eight-year agreement.
Financial terms weren’t disclosed.  ING U.S. Inc. said about two months ago that it would end
its sponsorship of the marathon after this year’s race as it
moves away from its Dutch owner,  ING Groep NV (INGA) , which has
sponsored the event since 2003.  The NYRR was seeking a partner that “shared the belief in
unlocking the potential in people to run, and elevating the
health and wellness of whole communities,” said Mary Wittenberg, the Road Runners’ chief executive officer.  “Technology has become such a big driver and influence in
the city, so we were especially excited to tie those two areas
together,” Wittenberg said in a telephone interview.  Though the partnership is signed and work will begin now on
improving the NYRR’s technology structure, Wittenberg said, the
name change will begin Nov. 4, the day after this year’s NYC
Marathon that is expected to draw about 48,000 runners.  “We’re babes in the woods in terms of where we are with
technology,” Wittenberg said. “There are a lot of areas we
lead with  New York  Road Runners. I don’t think it’s technology
right now.”  TCS, a Mumbai-based part of Tata Sons Ltd.,  India ’s largest
industrial conglomerate, has about 277,000 consultants in 44
countries, generating revenue of $11.6 billion for the fiscal
year ending March 31, according to the statement.  Other Marathons  TCS has been the title sponsor of the Amsterdam Marathon
and had smaller sponsorship deals with the races in New York,
 Boston ,  Chicago  and Berlin, as well as running events in India.  About 50 percent of TCS’s business is U.S. based, according
to Natarajan Chandrasekaran, chief executive officer.  “Wellness, fitness, education; these are the types of
initiatives we actively promote in the communities,”
Chandrasekaran said in a telephone interview. “It helps us to
bring the talent that we have to leverage in the work we do in
communities, and it helps us to energize our workforce.”  Last year’s NYC Marathon was amid criticism over initial
plans to hold the race days after  Hurricane Sandy  devastated
parts of the city.  “We have since last November focused on being here with
all of our full energy and resources for our community in New
York,” Wittenberg said.  International Logo  Still, the new NYC Marathon logo has a global focus, with
blue, yellow, red and green roads leading into the Statue of
Liberty, an image that “most represents  New York City  as
welcoming the world,” Wittenberg said.  The New York race has a large international contingent,
with last year’s 47,000 entries including 20,000 from outside
the U.S.  Chandrasekaran, 50, ran the NYC Marathon in 2009, and said
he has also run Boston and Chicago.  “I compete with myself every time and my goal is to
complete every race,” he said. “I’m not running in 2013, but
maybe 2014.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  