-- LNG Prices in Northeast Asia Rise on Winter Demand, WGI Says
-- B y   C h o u   H u i   H o n g
-- 2013-10-02T01:57:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/lng-prices-in-northeast-asia-rise-on-winter-demand-wgi-says.html
Liquefied natural gas prices for
Northeast Asia rose this week as demand for November cargoes
picked up and buyers showed interest in December shipments,
according to Energy Intelligence Group.  Supplies of the power-station fuel for delivery over the
next four to eight weeks increased to $15.80 per million British
thermal units in the period ended today from $15.70 the previous
week, the New York-based research company said on the  website  of
its World Gas Intelligence publication. Southwest Europe prices
were little changed at $11.60.  LNG prices are forecast to rise this week, according to
traders surveyed by Bloomberg News through Sept. 27. Asian
buyers typically purchase spot LNG for November delivery to
replenish inventories before peak heating and power demand
during winter in the northern hemisphere from December to March.  Japanese power utilities are showing the most interest in
November cargoes, and buyers from South Korea,  Taiwan  and  China 
may soon join them in seeking December shipments, WGI said.  Argentina’s earlier-than-normal activity into the spot
market played a part in driving spot prices higher, according to
WGI. YPF SA, Argentina’s largest energy company, opened a
qualifying process Sept. 26 for potential sellers in its tender
to buy spot cargoes for 2014. Last year, the company waited
until December to start looking for cargoes.  Angola LNG, which is selling its fourth cargo via a tender,
is attracting “keen” interest from Japanese buyers, WGI said.
The tender opened Sept. 25 and closes today, with the shipment
delivered by the Sonangol Benguela.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chou Hui Hong in Singapore at 
 chong43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  