-- Noreco Drops as Share Sale Worries Outweigh Oil Find: Oslo Mover
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   R e e d
-- 2013-10-02T10:14:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/noreco-drops-as-share-sale-worries-outweigh-oil-find-oslo-mover.html
Norwegian Energy Co. ASA (NOR)  fell the
most in a year in Oslo as irregular oil output and costs related
to its Danish assets heightened concerns that the producer may
have to raise capital.  Noreco dropped as much as 19 percent, the  biggest intraday
decline  since Oct. 1, 2012. The  shares  fell 16 percent to 2.10
kroner at 12:12 p.m. in the capital with trading volume at more
than three times the three-month daily average. That drop
extended Noreco’s decline to 45 percent since the start of the
year.  Noreco has reported positive drilling results at Gohta in
the  Barents Sea , where the Stavanger, Norway-based company has a
20 percent stake. Still, weak third-quarter production, an
unexpected 500 million kroner ($90.7 million) charge in  Denmark 
and the rising prospect of a share sale are of more concern to
investors, Swedbank First Securities analyst Teodor Sveen Nilsen
said in an e-mail.  Those issues “more than wipe out the positive news related
to the Gohta discovery,” he said. “We do not rule out that an
equity issue will be needed.”  Noreco, which is seeking to increase output after delays at
its Huntington field in the U.K.’s North Sea, has experienced a
slew of shutdowns at its Oselvar field off Norway and Nini, Nini
East and Cecilie in the Danish  North Sea . Shares in the company
sank to a record on Aug. 29 amid concerns that intermittent
output from Huntington and its Danish assets is stretching its
balance sheet and may result in Noreco needing to sell shares.  Abandonment Costs  The company produced an average of 3,117 barrels of oil
equivalent a day during the third quarter, down from 4,561
barrels a day in the previous three months, Noreco said in a
statement today. While Huntington output may increase during
this month, there’s a risk that production from Nini, Nini East
and Cecilie may not resume until after the northern hemisphere’s
winter season, it said.  Noreco has also held talks with partners in its Danish
assets about abandonment costs that should be prepared for the
Nini, Nini East and Cecilie fields by Jan. 1. “Noreco’s part of
these costs is estimated at approximately 500 million kroner,”
it said. “Discussions are on-going about form, initial amount
and build-up of such guarantees.”  “Noreco will need a guarantee for this amount in some form
(for instance a bank guarantee), and this will go into the
refinancing discussions,” Pareto Securities ASA said in a note.
“This added element should remove any doubt that the company
needs to have a refinancing in place before the end of this
year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Reed in Oslo at 
 areed12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  