-- NSA Tried Tracking Movements With Phone Data, Chief Says
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-10-02T18:52:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/nsa-pilot-tracked-mobile-phone-gps-data-agency-chief.html
The National Security Agency ran
tests using mobile-phone data to track Americans’ movements
until determining the information lacked intelligence value, the
agency’s director said.  The NSA tested samples of bulk location information on U.S.
mobile phones in 2010 and 2011 to see whether the data format
could be used in its computer systems, General Keith Alexander
told the Senate Judiciary Committee during a hearing in
 Washington  today.  It was the first time the agency has discussed using
mobile-phone data to track Americans’ locations. The data wasn’t
used in actual surveillance operations, Alexander said, and he
didn’t provide details.  “It was test data, and what we couldn’t find was
operational value out of it given that we could just turn that
over to the FBI, and they could do the cell-site location if
they needed it with a warrant,” Alexander said in an interview
after the hearing.  Alexander said the NSA would notify Congress before
location data is collected in the future. He appeared before
lawmakers who may curb the NSA’s powers in response to recent
revelations that some of its spying activity violated Americans’
privacy rights.  Phone Records  The NSA collects bulk phone records on millions of
Americans, such as call durations and numbers dialed, from U.S.
telecommunications companies under a program exposed in June by
former government contractor Edward Snowden, who remains in
 Russia  under temporary asylum.  Senators were divided over the value of the bulk records
during the hearing.  “The government has not made its case that bulk collection
of domestic phone records is an effective counterterrorism tool,
especially in light of the intrusion on Americans’ privacy,”
said  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat and chairman of the
Judiciary Committee.  Alexander, under questioning by Leahy, said the program has
helped stop only one or two terrorist plots inside the U.S.
since it was begun in 2006.  Director of National Intelligence James Clapper offered a
new rationale for the program during the hearing, saying it can
be used to provide “peace of mind” that there aren’t terrorist
plots in the works.  Competing Bills  Leahy has introduced a measure that would stop bulk
collection and instead allow the NSA to obtain phone records for
individuals under investigation.  Democrat  Dianne Feinstein  of  California , chairman of the
Senate Intelligence Committee, and  Jeff Sessions  of  Alabama , the
top Republican on the Senate Budget Committee, said they will
oppose efforts to stop the bulk collection because it’s part of
the government’s arsenal to find and stop terrorist plots.  “To destroy it is to make this nation more vulnerable,”
Feinstein said.  Feinstein is writing legislation that would preserve the
program. A committee meeting scheduled for Oct. 4 to draft the
measure has been postponed due to the U.S. government’s partial
shutdown.  Social Networks  The NSA isn’t compiling profiles of innocent Americans
using their social connections, Alexander said.  He disputed a characterization in a Sept. 28  New York Times
story  that the agency is building graphs of some Americans’
social connections that can identify their associates, their
locations at certain times, their traveling companions and other
personal information. The story relied in part on documents
leaked by Snowden.  “We aren’t doing that,” Alexander said. “The insinuation
that we’re doing that is flat out wrong.”  The NSA builds profiles of Americans who are subjects of
investigations related to suspected foreign terrorist activity,
Alexander said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net  