-- Nykredit to Refinance $2 Billion With Preferred Stock, CoCos
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-10-03T10:08:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/nykredit-to-refinance-2-billion-with-preferred-stock-cocos.html
Nykredit A/S,  Europe ’s biggest issuer
of mortgage-backed covered bonds, plans to refinance 11 billion
kroner ($2 billion) using preferred stock and contingent
convertible debt.  The securities will replace debt that’s coming due in 2014
and 2015, Chief Financial Officer Soeren Holm said yesterday in
a telephone interview from Copenhagen. The closely held lender
regards preferred stock as a “multi-purpose vehicle” to help
it meet stricter capital requirements without accessing publicly
traded stock markets, he said.  The plan marks a break from Nykredit’s 162-year history as
a cooperative mortgage bank as it looks for ways to match the
equity building capacity of its listed competitors. Nykredit is
seeking government approval to issue preferred stock that
existing legislation prevents it from selling, Holm said. The
bank is expecting lawmakers to pass a bill as early as next
year, he said. Once Nykredit can sell preferred stock, it will
be free to issue notes that convert to equity, he said.  The European Parliament agreed to allow banks to include
loss-absorbing debt instruments in their capital buffers to
protect taxpayers. That’s driving issuance plans at banks as
investors try to work out how to price the new securities. The
world’s biggest banks are 140.6 billion euros ($191 billion)
short of global equity and capital conservation standards, the
 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  said last month.  Capital Shortfall  Nykredit, which dates back to 1851, is short about 11.4
billion kroner to fulfill its estimated 2019 equity requirement
of 70 billion kroner. It had equity of 58.6 billion kroner as of
June 30, the bank said in its second-quarter earnings report.  If lending increases by 2 percent annually, the requirement
will climb to 76 billion kroner, leaving the bank with 17.4
billion-krone equity shortfall, it said. Nykredit also expects
to have at least 15 billion kroner in subordinated debt.  Denmark ’s Systemic Risk Council said Sept. 26 it will
examine “behavioral changes” at banks triggered by higher
capital requirements. Though down since 2009, lending remains at
a high level seen from a historical perspective, the council
said. Results of the board’s probe may come as early as
December, it said.  Ownership Structure  The bank’s ownership structure -- its main shareholder is a
cooperative owned by borrowers -- prevents it from issuing
shares and as a consequence from deploying hybrid, or contingent
convertible, debt that converts into equity.  Without the option, the bank may not be able to support
economic growth in Denmark, Chief Executive Officer Michael Rasmussen said in an interview last week.  While its first aim is to generate enough profit to meet
 capital requirements , “if you look at our earnings forecast, if
we meet the capital requirements, there isn’t room for growth,
Rasmussen said.  “We’re not coming hat in hand and asking for something”
of the Danish parliament, he said.  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  on Oct. 1 raised its forecast for economic
growth this year to 0.3 percent and maintained its 2014 forecast
for 1.5 percent expansion, citing accelerating exports,
investments and  consumer spending . Central Bank Governor Lars Rohde warned last week against fiscal easing, saying it may
backfire and put pressure on the labor market just as the
economy recovers from dual housing and bank crises.  CoCo Confusion  “Either we have access to capital or we may have to just
say that we cannot follow the growth,” Rasmussen said. “If it
gets really bad, we may have to shrink lending.”  The new shares would probably pay a dividend and have no
 voting rights , Holm said. Whether the bank issues hybrid debt
will depend on lending growth and the levels Denmark sets for
when the debt converts to equity. Investors probably will
include existing corporate and high-wealth customers, he said.  Nykredit’s total capital requirement will rise from 9.5
percent to about 18 percent by 2019 as new rules increase risk-weighted assets and regulators demand higher buffers, the bank
said in August. Risk-weighted assets will increase to 415
billion kroner, from 316 billion kroner, the bank said.  Nykredit could raise capital by issuing Tier 2 debt that is
written down when a threshold is breached. The bank would rather
save that option, because European legislation puts limits on
the amount of that type of instrument an issuer can sell, Holm
said.  ‘It’s Cheaper’  “For us, it’s 15 billion kroner,” Holm said. “We can
start replacing the 11 billion with Tier 2 debt -- it is cheaper
-- but when you hit the limit, you have to do something else.”  Though pressed for capital, banks have largely steered
clear of CoCos, citing uncertain regulatory, tax and rating
company treatment. Danske Bank redeemed yesterday almost $1
billion in loss-absorbing debt after  Standard & Poor’s  changed
its assessment of the Tier 2 issue.  Nykredit isn’t taking the same chances. The bank won’t
start issuing the securities until they’re approved by the
Danish parliament, Holm said. Without preferred shares, the bank
can’t compensate investors since the majority shareholder -- the
Nykredit Association, which represents borrowers -- is unlikely
to agree to a dividend, he said. Banks, unlike industrial
companies such as A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, aren’t currently
allowed under Danish law to offer the stock, he said.  Business Minister Henrik Sass Larsen  said  in a Sept. 26
speech to the Association of Danish Mortgage Banks that “a
solution” will be found to help mortgage banks.  After parliamentary approval, the bank will need the go-ahead from its association, which holds about 90 percent of the
bank, Holm said. That process may take as long as a year.  “Whether or not we issue new shares, it can still be used
as an instrument for a hybrid to convert into, which makes it
easier to issue hybrids,” Holm said. “There is no big lending
demand now but that will change. I don’t think we’ll have no to
low growth forever.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  