-- Loeb Blasts Sotheby’s Strategy, Calls for CEO to Quit
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2013-10-02T18:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/loeb-blasts-sotheby-s-strategy-calls-for-ceo-to-quit.html
Comparing Sotheby’s to “an Old
Master painting in need of restoration,” hedge-fund manager
 Daniel Loeb  called on the auction house’s chief executive
officer, William Ruprecht, to resign.  Loeb, 51, said he will seek a board seat, has begun an
informal search for outside candidates and is aware of at least
two internal candidates “who warrant serious consideration” to
replace Ruprecht as CEO. He detailed his requests in a letter to
the chief executive disclosed in a regulatory filing today.  Loeb also revealed that his firm Third Point LLC increased
its  stake  in Sotheby’s to 9.3 percent. The billionaire activist
is ratcheting up pressure on the New York-based auction house,
criticizing the company’s international operations,
“deteriorating” competitive position versus rival Christie’s
International Plc, and executive compensation.  “We acknowledge that you, Mr. Ruprecht, were an able
steward for the company following both the price-fixing scandal
in 2000 and the financial crisis in 2008,” Loeb said in the
letter. “Unfortunately, you have not led the business forward
in today’s art market,” particularly contemporary and modern
art.  The hedge-fund firm disclosed a 5.7 percent  Sotheby’s (BID)  stake
in an Aug. 26 filing. Last month, Sotheby’s said that it’s
“conducting a thorough review of its capital allocation and
financial policies,” and announced that Patrick McClymont, a
partner at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., would replace its chief
financial officer of 17 years, William Sheridan.  Sotheby’s Malaise  “We have concluded that Sotheby’s malaise is a result of a
lack of leadership and strategic vision at its highest levels,”
Loeb said in his letter to Ruprecht. “Our research suggests
Sotheby’s crisis of leadership has created dysfunctional
divisions and a fractured culture.”  In a statement, Sotheby’s cited its “superior results”
and noted that its shares outperformed the Standard & Poor’s
MidCap 400 Index over one, five and ten years. It omitted that
in three years, the shares returned about 40 percent, compared
with 63 percent for the benchmark. Or that they remain more than
10 percent below their all-time high, set five years ago.  Loeb cited “weak operating margins” and wasteful
spending. He said there was “little evidence” to justify
Ruprecht’s 2012 pay package of $6.3 million plus equity awards.  Ruprecht, CEO since 2000, is also president and chairman --
a title Loeb wants separated from the CEO role.  Activist funds generally acquire equity stakes in companies
and try to force corporate management to make changes that boost
share prices and investor returns.  -- With assistance from Jeffrey Burke in  New York . Editors:
Julie Alnwick, James Callan  To contact the reporters on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  