-- Hogs Climb on Signs of Declining U.S. Pork Supply; Cattle Fall
-- B y   D a l t o n   B a r k e r
-- 2013-10-02T18:54:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/hogs-climb-on-signs-of-declining-u-s-pork-supply-cattle-fall.html
Hog futures gained for the first time
in three days as falling slaughter rates signaled shrinking
supplies of animals and pork amid rising U.S. meatpacker demand.
Cattle slid.  Hog slaughter for the week ending Sept. 30 was down 1.1
percent from a year earlier to 432,000 head. Demand for animals
from processors has increased amid improving profit margins,
according to Steve Wagner, a market analyst for CHS Hedging Inc.
in Inver Grove Heights,  Minnesota .  “We are going to continue to have reduced slaughter versus
last year,” Jason Golly, a vice president of risk-management
marketing at Lynch Livestock Inc. in Waucoma,  Iowa , said in a
telephone interview. “Demand is going to continue to be
strong.”  Hog futures for December settlement rose 0.3 percent to
close at 86.175 cents a pound at 1 p.m. on the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange. Prices declined 2.5 percent in the previous
two days after a government report on Sept. 27 showed the U.S.
herd unexpectedly increased.  Cattle futures for December delivery fell 0.1 percent to
$1.31825 a pound on the CME. Feeder-cattle futures for November
settlement gained 0.1 percent to $1.662 a pound, after touching
an all-time high of $1.6665.  CME Group Inc., which owns the CME exchange, said today it
was suspending publishing its lean-hog and feeder-cattle
indexes, which measure cash prices, because some relevant data
is unavailable amid the first U.S. government shutdown in 17
years. The Department of Agriculture will suspend crop and
livestock reports during the shutdown.  “We are going to get increasingly blind as we move
forward, as we don’t see the cash prices,” Lawrence Kane, a
market adviser for Stewart-Peterson Group in  Yates City ,
 Illinois , said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalton Barker in Chicago at 
 dbarker40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  