-- Tokyo Electron Seeks Deals After Applied Materials Takeover
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2013-10-02T06:55:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/tokyo-electron-seeks-deals-after-applied-materials-takeover-1-.html
Tokyo Electron Ltd. (8035) , which agreed to
be bought by  Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT)  for $9.39 billion, will seek
deals to build on the combined company’s share of the market for
chipmaking equipment.  “We’re going to find merger and acquisition opportunities
even as the integration of the two companies gets us to about 25
percent of the global market,”  Tokyo  Electron President Tetsuro Higashi said in an interview yesterday.  Applied Materials agreed to buy its rival with stock as
equipment makers mirror an increasing concentration within their
customer base of semiconductor makers. Further deals may take
place amid a shrinking pool of clients and rising costs for
research and development, Yoshihiro Azuma, an analyst at
Jefferies Group LLC, said in a Sept. 26 report.  Increasing the reach of the combined company may prove
difficult as it already would have the ability to produce most
of the machinery used in chip plants, or fabs, said Weston Twigg, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities.  “I would be surprised if they were very active right
away,” he said. “There aren’t that many gaps. They cover most
of the processes in the fab.”  Tokyo Electron’s Higashi will become chairman of the
combined company while Gary Dickerson is moving to Tokyo to
become chief executive officer, the position he holds at  Santa
Clara , California-based Applied Materials.  Japan Move  Tokyo Electron  fell  0.8 percent to 5,170 yen in Tokyo
trading. The shares have gained 6.6 percent since since the
takeover was announced Sept. 24. Applied Materials lost 0.4
percent yesterday to $17.47.  The 64-year-old Higashi wants Dickerson to increase
communication with Tokyo-based employees and familiarize himself
with Japanese culture as soon as the deal is closed, which he
expects in 2014, he said.  The two executives, who have known each other for 30 years,
spent nine months working out the details of the deal, the
largest for a Japanese company from outside the country in six
years.  “Succeeding in the Asian market is crucial for U.S. and
Japanese companies to sustain their business growth in the
global market,” Higashi said.  The deal, which combines two of the three largest equipment
makers, is subject to clearance from antitrust regulators.  Semiconductor Spending  The companies make machines that prepare silicon wafers for
imprinting with the circuits that turn them into processors
capable of crunching numbers, showing video and connecting to
mobile networks, among other tasks.  Spending on semiconductor equipment is projected to decline
8.5 percent to $34.6 billion this year, hurt by shrinking
investment by chip manufacturers, according to  Gartner Inc. (IT) 
Spending by the top five chipmakers will make up more than 65
percent of total 2013 spending, the  Stamford , Connecticut-based
research firm said.  A new name for the combined company has yet to be decided
and it will seek dual-listings on the Tokyo Stock Exchange and
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. once the deal closes. Filings to the
bourses will be made in early 2014, he said.  “I prefer a shorter and simple name,” Higashi said.  Under the deal, Tokyo Electron shareholders get 3.25 shares
of the new company for every share they hold which valued the
offer at $9.39 billion when it was announced.  Annual Savings  Higashi doesn’t see any need for the company to raise funds
in a listing, he said. Annual savings in the first full
financial year are expected to reach $250 million before rising
to $500 million in the third year.  Tokyo Electron had about $2.3 billion of cash and
equivalents as of June 30 with no debt, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Applied Materials has  $2 billion  of cash
and $1.9 billion of borrowing as of July 28.  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (2330)  and
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  now buy the majority of the production
machines deployed by the industry, making the earnings of their
suppliers more volatile. Veldhoven, Netherlands-based  ASML
Holding NV (ASML) ,  Europe ’s biggest chipmaking-tools supplier,
completed its purchase of San Diego-based Cymer Inc. in May to
expand in extreme ultraviolet lithography technology.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  