-- Mol Drops to 15-Month Low on CEO Arrest Warrant: Budapest Mover
-- B y   M a r t o n   E d e r
-- 2013-10-02T15:21:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/mol-heads-for-15-month-low-on-ceo-arrest-warrant-budapest-mover.html
Mol Nyrt. fell to the lowest in more
than 15 months after Croatia issued an arrest warrant for Chief
Executive Officer  Zsolt Hernadi  over a bribery probe into the
Hungarian refiner’s purchase of a subsidiary in Zagreb.  The stock  dropped  as much as 2.5 percent and closed 1.9
percent down at 15,700 forint in Budapest, the lowest since June
2012. About 142,000 securities changed hands, 2 1/2 times the
three-month daily average.  The shares extended losses after  Hungary ’s government said
Mol should be prepared to sell its stake in INA Industrija Nafte
d.d. Croatia and Mol are in dispute over the Budapest-based
company’s ownership of the $7.3 billion refiner. Former Croatian
premier Ivo Sanader is serving a prison term for corruption
related to the 2009 agreement that gave Mol control.  “The arrest warrant casts a dark shadow on ongoing talks
between Mol and the Croatian government over INA’s management
rights,” analysts led by Jozsef Miro at Erste Group Bank AG’s
brokerage in Budapest said in an e-mailed note today. “We
expect lengthy negotiations that will delay INA’s
restructuring.”  Croatia  has issued a European Union warrant against
Hernadi, police spokeswoman Jelena Bikic said by text message
late yesterday. Mol will defend itself and its employees by all
legal means against the “outrageous actions,” the company said
in a statement to the Budapest bourse. Hernadi will be able to
lead Mol even as the warrant may keep him from traveling abroad,
it said.  Hungary would evaluate possible legal steps to counter
damages resulting from Croatia’s “unacceptable” effort to
“intimidate” Mol, the government said in an e-mailed
statement.  Ownership Talks  Croatia, the European Union’s newest member, has sought to
re-assert control over INA since the 2009 deal. Mol has a  49.1
percent  share  in the $7.3 billion company, while the government
owns 44.8 percent. Officials from the two sides agreed on Sept.
18 to meet once a month to discuss cost control, investment and
profit sharing, and other issues.  Croatia expects to continue the negotiations with Mol and
will stick to the agreed schedule, Economy Minister Ivan Vrdoljak, who heads the negotiating team, told reporters in
Zagreb today.  Mol has dropped 4.4 percent in the past three months, the
fourth-biggest decline among 16 eastern European energy
companies  tracked  by Bloomberg. Four analysts recommend
investors buy the shares of Mol, while 10 have a hold rating and
five say sell, according to data  compiled  by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marton Eder in Budapest at 
 meder4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  