-- Mol to Fight Croat Arrest Warrant Against CEO Hernadi
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-10-02T08:44:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/mol-to-fight-croat-arrest-warrant-against-ceo-hernadi.html
Mol Nyrt., the Hungarian refiner
battling to maintain control of its Zagreb-based subsidiary,
said it would fight a Croatian arrest warrant against its
chairman and chief executive officer, Zsolt Hernadi.  Hernadi can continue to lead the company even as the
warrant may keep him from traveling abroad and be
“inconvenient” for him as an individual, Mol said in a
 statement  to the Budapest bourse today. It said it could deal
with “all the operational issues under this challenging
situation.”  Croatian police issued an arrest warrant against Hernadi
yesterday in connection with a corruption investigation relating
to Mol’s 2009 acquisition of INA Industrija Nafte d.d. Mol has
denied any wrongdoing and the company said today an earlier
Hungarian probe had found no evidence of misdeed.  “In the interest of the company and its employees Mol will
defend itself by all legal means against the outrageous actions
that have been taken against Mr. Hernadi and the company, which
appear to be influenced by interests seeking to intimidate both
the company and its chairman,” the company said today.  Mol shares dropped 0.3 percent to 15,945 forint by 9:27
a.m. in Budapest for a decline of 10 percent year-to-date.  The warrant for Hernadi comes as  Croatia , the European
Union’s newest member, has sought to re-assert control over INA
since it passed into Mol’s management in a 2009 deal under
former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader that a Croatian court ruled
corrupt.  Mol Complaint  Mol owns 49.1 percent of the $7.3 billion company, and
Croatia, which complains Mol runs INA as a subsidiary rather
than an independent company, holds 44.84 percent.  The arrest warrant was issued after Hernadi failed to show
up for a Sept. 25 meeting with the Office for Suppression of
Corruption and Organized Crime, or USKOK, in Zagreb. Hungarian
police said yesterday they hadn’t “officially received” a
European arrest warrant against Hernadi.  “We question whether the procedures followed with regard
to the claims made against Mol are compliant with established
legal procedures elsewhere in  Europe  and internationally,” Mol
said in its statement. “In our view, they are not compliant
with the rule of law.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  