-- Olympics Won’t Be Held Hostage to Terror Threats, Russia Says
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-10-02T14:44:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/olympics-won-t-be-held-hostage-to-terror-threats-russia-says.html
Russia  will avoid turning Sochi into
a “concentration camp” even as it takes extra precautions to
counter threats of terrorist attacks during next year’s Winter
Olympics, the Federal Security Service said.  “The security measures are aimed not only at making the
Games safe but also ensuring a comfortable environment,” said
Alexei Lavrishchev, a spokesman for the FSB, as the main
successor to the Soviet-era KGB is known in Russian. “The city
won’t become a concentration camp,” Lavrishchev told reporters
in Moscow today.  Chechen rebel leader Doku Umarov, who has claimed
responsibility for three of Russia’s deadliest terror attacks,
released a video in July calling on Islamic militants to target
the February Games. He urged insurgents to “do your utmost to
derail these satanic dances on the bones of our ancestors.”  Umarov claimed responsibility for organizing the January
2011 suicide bombing at Moscow’s Domodedovo Airport that killed
37 people. The self-styled emir of a pan-North Caucasus Islamic
state also said he planned the attacks on the capital’s subway
system by female suicide bombers in March 2010 that killed 40
people and the November 2009 bombing of the Nevsky Express train
between Moscow and St. Petersburg that killed 28.  President Vladimir Putin stepped up security in the North
Caucasus region near the Black Sea after two ethnic Chechen
brothers became suspects in the Boston Marathon bombing in
April. Russia is collaborating with the law-enforcement agencies
of more than 80 countries to identify possible threats to the
Games, and some of these states will send intelligence agents to
Sochi during the event, Lavrishchev said.  Syrian Threat  Putin this year accepted a proposal by U.S. President
 Barack Obama  and U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron, whose
country hosted the 2012 Summer Olympics, to have their
respective special services cooperate on security in Sochi.  Russia is working to neutralize the risk of Russian
militants returning from the conflict in  Syria  to target the
Olympics, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said in an
interview in June. Putin that month said at least 600 militants
from Russia and European countries are fighting against
President Bashar al-Assad’s forces in Syria.  Russia has spent more than $50 billion on preparations for
the competition, the most ever for a Winter Games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  