-- Tom Clancy, Whose Novels Conjured Threats to U.S., Dies at 66
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-10-02T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/tom-clancy-novelist-who-conjured-threats-to-u-s-dies-at-66.html
Tom Clancy, whose chillingly
realistic novels such as “The Hunt for Red October” reflected
his knowledge of the military and the changing nature of threats
to the U.S. while providing Hollywood with fodder for
blockbuster movies, has died. He was 66.  He died Oct. 1 in Baltimore, his hometown, according to an
e-mailed statement from Penguin Group, his publisher. Clancy
died at Johns Hopkins Hospital following a brief illness,
according to the Baltimore Sun.  His biggest hits featured the character Jack Ryan, a CIA
analyst whose smarts and bravery stand out among the lesser
lights of the government employees around him. He rises through
the ranks all the way to the Oval Office.  Alec Baldwin ,  Harrison Ford  and  Ben Affleck  played Ryan in film versions of Clancy’s
books. A  movie  based on the character, “Jack Ryan: Shadow
One,” is scheduled for release in December.  Later novels were built around John Clark, a veteran of
U.S. Navy special operations. Clancy also wrote a series on
real-life military leaders.  Clancy’s novels that reached No. 1 on the  New York  Times
bestseller list include “The Hunt for Red October” (1984),
“Patriot Games” (1987), “Clear and Present Danger” (1989),
“The Sum of All Fears” (1991) and “The Bear and the Dragon”
(2000). His publisher said his 17th novel, “Command
Authority,” is due out in December.  ‘Consummate Author’  “He was a consummate author, creating the modern-day
thriller, and was one of the most visionary storytellers of our
time,” David Shanks, chief executive officer of Penguin Group
(USA) Inc., said yesterday in the statement. Penguin Group is a
unit of Penguin Random House, which is owned by Bertelsmann SE,
based in Guetersloh,  Germany , and  Pearson Plc. (PSON) , based in  London .  The company Clancy co-founded in 1996, Red Storm
Entertainment Inc., makes video games including the “Ghost
Recon” and “Rainbow Six” series. UbiSoft Entertainment SA,
based in Montreuil,  France , bought Red Storm in 2000 for $45
million.  His 1994 novel “Debt of Honor,” proved eerily prescient,
its plot culminating in a then-unthinkable breach of U.S. air
defenses: a Boeing 747 jetliner, under the control of a suicidal
terrorist pilot, crashing into the U.S. Capitol during the
president’s  State of the Union  address.  The book got a burst of renewed publicity after real
hijackers turned airplanes into missiles on Sept. 11, 2001.  Government Failure  In its final report, released in 2004, the U.S. commission
that studied the 9/11 attacks found that the government had
suffered a “failure of imagination” in not grasping the
capabilities and intentions of  Osama bin Laden  and his al-Qaeda
terror group.  “We were often advised during the course of the hearings
to read very imaginative writers, like Tom Clancy, and
encouraged to think outside the box,” said the commission’s
vice chairman, former Indiana Congressman Lee Hamilton.  Clancy said in an interview that he had little faith in
U.S. authorities to outwit their enemies.  “I don’t see much imagination in government, except maybe
looking for new ways to take money in taxes,” he said.  Thomas Leo Clancy Jr. was born on April 12, 1947, in
Baltimore, the middle child of three, according to a 1998
profile in the St. Paul Pioneer Press. His father, Thomas,
worked for the U.S. Postal Service. His mother, Catherine, went
to work to help put Clancy through private Catholic high school.  He graduated from  Loyola University Maryland  in Baltimore,
where, he said, he was president of the chess club and “had a
reputation for dealing with abstract problems.”  Plot Genesis  He said the roots of his “Debt of Honor” terrorist
hijacking plot came from a college discussion.  “A guy sat down in my chess club office and said, ‘How do
you destroy the whole government?’” he recalled. “We both
agreed that using nuclear weapons was cheating, so we scratched
that out. It took us a couple minutes to come up with a way to
do it. It’s actually rather obvious.”  After receiving a bachelor’s degree in English in 1969, he
worked for an insurer in  Connecticut , then returned to  Maryland 
to work for his wife’s family as an insurance broker. Though
never in the military -- the near-sightedness that rendered him
service-ineligible also required his trademark thick glasses --
he had military clients through the insurance business,
according to the Baltimore Sun.  His first book based on his military interest was “The
Hunt for Red October,” about the captain of a Soviet nuclear
submarine trying to defect to the U.S.  First Fee  Clancy sold the book to the  U.S. Naval Institute Press ,
which, according to the Washington Post, initially paid him
$5,000.  Clancy was a part-owner of the  Baltimore Orioles  and served
as the team’s vice chairman for community projects and public
affairs.  Peter Angelos, the team’s majority owner and chairman, said
yesterday in a  statement  that Clancy “was a regular presence at
Oriole Park and enjoyed talking about baseball, the ball club
and its operations.”  Clancy is survived by his wife, Alexandra Llewellyn Clancy,
and their daughter Alexis Jacqueline Page Clancy. Additional
survivors include children from a previous marriage to Wanda
King: daughters Michelle Bandy, Christine Blocksidge and
Kathleen Clancy and son Thomas Clancy III.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  