-- Hong Kong Stocks Rise Most in Two Weeks; Hutchison Surges
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-10-02T08:16:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/hong-kong-stocks-advance-on-casino-operators-finance.html
Hong Kong   stocks  rose, with the
equity benchmark rising the most in two weeks, as the city’s
markets reopened from a holiday and casino shares and  Hutchison
Whampoa (13)  Ltd. advanced.  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27) , the casino operator
controlled by billionaire Lui Che-woo, rose 2.7 percent before
the release of Macau’s September casino revenue. Hutchison
Whampoa, controlled by  Li Ka-shing , jumped to its highest since
November 2007 on a report it may seek to raise $10 billion
spinning off its Watsons retail arm. Aluminum Corp. of  China 
Ltd., the nation’s No. 1 supplier of the commodity, slid 1.4
percent after metal prices fell as the U.S. government yesterday
began its first partial shutdown in 17 years.  The Hang Seng Index gained 0.6 percent to 22,984.48 at the
close in Hong Kong after falling the most in a month on Sept.
30. Two shares rose for each that fell on the 50-member gauge,
with volume 16 percent lower than the 30-day intraday average.
The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) , also known as the H-share
index, added 0.2 percent to 10,333.59. Mainland markets are shut
until Oct. 8.  “The market is due for a technical rebound today but not
by that much,” said  Norman Chan , head of investment at Calibre
Asset Management Ltd. “People are still worried about what the
U.S. will do -- the market expects them to resolve the issue in
a few days but nobody is going to make any big moves.”  The Hang Seng Index climbed 5.2 percent last month and 9.9
percent in the three months through September, its steepest
quarterly gain since the period ended March 2012, as data from
China signaled the world’s second-largest economy is
strengthening and the  Federal Reserve  unexpectedly refrained
from cutting stimulus. Hong Kong’s equity benchmark traded at 11
times estimated earnings today, compared with 15.4 for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index yesterday.  U.S. Shutdown  Futures on the U.S. equity gauge fell 0.7 percent. The
index climbed for a second time in nine days yesterday after
data from the privately run  Institute for Supply Management 
showed U.S. manufacturing expanded in September at a faster pace
than forecast, indicating factories will provide a bigger boost
to the expansion.  The U.S. government yesterday began its first partial
shutdown since 1996, putting as many as 800,000 federal
employees out of work and halting some services. Congress also
faces a dispute over raising the $16.7 trillion debt ceiling
this month as Republicans continue their fight to defund
President  Barack Obama ’s health care law. The stoppage could
cost the economy $300 million a day, according to IHS Inc.  “As soon as the shutdown started the market began to
rebound because the U.S. market had dropped” several days
beforehand, said Calibre Asset’s Chan. “It was also helped by
the rebounding economy, and we’ve seen some good figures from
the U.S.”  Casinos Advance  Galaxy rose 2.7 percent to HK$55.85. Sands China Ltd., a
unit of billionaire  Sheldon Adelson ’s Las Vegas gaming company,
climbed 1.6 percent to HK$48.70. Macau’s Gaming Inspection &
Coordination Bureau is expected to release its September casino
revenue after an 18 percent rise in August from a year earlier.  Hutchison Whampoa increased 3.3 percent to HK$95.95, the
second-biggest  gain  on the  Hang Seng Index . The company may list
Watsons on the city’s exchange within the next 12 to 18 months,
according to a Hong Kong Economic Times report citing
unidentified people.  The London Metal Exchange Index of industrial metals
dropped 1.5 percent yesterday amid U.S. shutdown concern, while
gold traded near the lowest in eight weeks today.  Miners Slump  Material companies had the  biggest drop  among the Hang Seng
Composite Index’s 11 industry groups. Aluminum Corp. of China
slid 1.4 percent to HK$2.84. Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s biggest
producer of the metal, sank 2.9 percent to HK$14.80. Gold miners
Zhaojin Mining Industry Co. and Zijin Mining Group Co. each
slumped at least 2.6 percent.  China’s  Purchasing Managers ’ Index was at 51.1 in
September, the National Bureau of Statistics and China
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said yesterday. While the
gauge rose from 51 in August and held above the level of 50 that
indicates expansion, it missed the 51.6 median  estimate  in a
Bloomberg News survey. A services index is due to be published
tomorrow.  Futures on the  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  rose 0.4 percent to 22,975.
The HSI Volatility Index dropped 1.1 percent to 16.76,
indicating traders expect the benchmark equity index to swing
4.8 percent in the next 30 days.  “The Hong Kong market is consolidating, and in the near
term it will remain that way,” said Calibre Asset’s Chan.
“Markets are closed in China and are weak in the U.S., that’s
not going to be too helpful for the Hong Kong stock market. It
may need to correct a little bit more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  