-- Monsanto Buying Climate Corp. to Add Big Data for Farmers
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-10-02T20:29:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/monsanto-to-buy-climate-corp-profit-forecast-trails-estimates.html
Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s largest
seed company, agreed to buy The Climate Corp. for about $930
million to provide farmers with weather data and farm modeling
to help them boost yields and manage risk.  Closely held Climate Corp. was founded in 2006 by software
engineers and data scientists who previously worked at Google
Inc. and other Silicon Valley technology companies, St. Louis-based Monsanto said today in a statement.  Monsanto is building on its core business selling
genetically modified crop seeds and associated herbicides,
adding data to boost harvests through seed choice and pesticide
timing. Today’s acquisition, the company’s largest in seven
years, will be combined with last year’s $210 million purchase
of Precision Planting LLC, which developed an iPad interface
farmers use in their tractors to adjust planting rates.  “I like this deal,”  Mark Gulley , a New York-based analyst
at BGC Partners LP who recommends buying the shares, said today
by phone. “It’s big data meets big ag biotech. It’s a new
platform for growth.”  Using “hyper-local weather monitoring,” predictive models
and other data to help farmers make optimal growing decisions
can eventually boost corn yields by 30 bushels to 50 bushels an
acre, Climate Corp. Chief Executive Officer David Friedberg said
on a call with reporters today. The company also helps farmers
save money by avoiding badly timed pesticide use, he said.  Combining Businesses  Climate Corp. data will be combined with Precision Planting
equipment under the newly created Integrated Farming System
platform, creating a 1-billion-acre, $20 billion sales
opportunity, Monsanto’s Chairman and CEO  Hugh Grant  said on a
call with analysts. The acquisition could add to earnings in as
soon as two years, Chief Financial Office Pierre Courduroux said
on the call.  Monsanto will charge $10 an acre in 2014 for its Precision
Planting service, whose variable planting technology added 5 to
10 bushels an acre this year in tests with 160 corn farmers,
Grant said on the call.  Monsanto expects to partner with equipment makers, crop
chemical producers and farm retailers to “build out” the
platform, Grant said. No more acquisitions are currently
expected, he said.  The company also sells weather and crop insurance,
Friedberg said. Grant said he plans to strengthen that business
in the U.S. and bring it to other countries, particularly  Brazil 
and  Argentina  where crop insurance offerings are limited.  Climate Investors  Climate Corp. investors include Founders Fund, the venture
capital firm started by Facebook Inc. investor  Peter Thiel ;
Google Ventures; Khosla Ventures LLC; Allen & Co.; Atomico, the
venture capital firm created by Skype Inc. co-founder Niklas Zennstrom; and First Round Capital, according to the company’s
 website .  Earnings in the fiscal year that began Sept. 1 will rise as
much as 14 percent to $5 to $5.20 a share, Monsanto said today
in a separate statement. That trailed the $5.34 average of 22
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Corn has fallen 42 percent in the past year amid forecasts
for a record crop in the U.S., the world’s biggest grower.
Modified corn seed is Monsanto’s largest business.  The full-year forecast assumes corn-seed margins expand by
3 percentage points as prices increase an average of 5 percent
to 10 percent, the CFO said. Soybean margins will widen by 6 to
8 points because of this year’s licensing agreement for Roundup
Ready 2 soybeans with DuPont Co. and the first sales of Intacta
insect-repelling beans in Brazil, he said.  Mid-Teens  Monsanto fell 1 percent to $104.04 at the close in  New
York .  The shares  have gained 9.9 percent this year.  Since 2010, Grant has targeted annual percentage profit
increases in the “mid-teens” by raising prices on its newest
modified seeds and expanding in Brazil and Argentina.  Monsanto’s fourth-quarter loss excluding one-time items was
47 cents a share, wider than the 43-cent average of 20  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  The period is typically Monsanto’s weakest quarter for
earnings because farmers in  North America  and  Europe  are just
beginning to harvest and haven’t begun purchasing seed and
herbicide for spring planting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  