-- Oracle Rebuffs Group’s Criticism of Executive Pay Packages
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-10-02T21:29:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/oracle-rebuffs-labor-group-s-criticism-of-executive-pay-packages.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , the world’s largest
database-software maker, said Chief Executive Officer  Larry Ellison ’s pay package is “appropriate,” responding to CtW
Investment Group’s criticism of compensation for top managers.  Company founder Ellison is an “extremely valuable asset,”
Dorian Daley, Oracle’s general counsel, wrote in a letter dated
yesterday and filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. The company was responding to a note last week from
CtW that urged Oracle to reform its pay practices.  Ellison’s pay package declined 18 percent to $78.4 million
for fiscal 2013 after he gave up an annual bonus and the company
missed some of its profit targets. Last month, the company gave
a weaker-than-projected profit forecast for the second quarter,
which ends in November. CtW wants Oracle to appoint a new
director to oversee compensation, and opposes the use of  stock
options  to pay Ellison and other executives.  “The board firmly believes that Oracle is one of the best-managed companies in the technology sector,” Daley wrote in the
letter, which was addressed to Dieter Waizenegger, executive
director of CtW Investment, which is part of the labor group
Change to Win.  While CtW said it holds about 6 million shares of Oracle,
there isn’t any record of the group owning any of the database
maker’s shares, Daley wrote.  Michael Pryce-Jones, an analyst at CtW, said the group will
continue to encourage shareholders to vote against Oracle’s
executive compensation. Oracle plans to hold its annual meeting
on Oct. 31.  “There’s nothing in there that’s substantive,” Pryce-Jones said in an interview. “They’ve shown no intent on
reforming this.”  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman for  Redwood City ,
California-based Oracle, declined to provide additional comment.  Oracle shares were little changed at $33.68 at the close in
New York. The stock is up 1.1 percent this year, compared with a
19 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  