-- Morgan Stanley Joins Citigroup Seeing Inevitable Dollar Gain
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-10-02T17:11:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/morgan-stanley-joins-citigroup-seeing-inevitable-dollar-gain-1-.html
Morgan Stanley and Citigroup Inc.
strategists are maintaining their view that the dollar will
appreciate next year, despite recent weakness, as the U.S.
recovery accelerates and the Federal Reserve curbs stimulus.  “Dollar strength is going to develop next year, based on
the growth story,”  Ian Stannard , Morgan Stanley’s head of
European foreign-exchange strategy, told the Bloomberg FX13
summit in  London  today. The advance will be “driven by relative
monetary policy and relative investment flows,” he said.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index has fallen more than 1
percent since Sept. 17, the day before the Fed said it would
keep printing cash to buy $85 billion of bonds a month because
it had yet to see signs of sustained economic growth. The index
had strengthened 5.5 percent in the first six months of the year
as investors bet that an improving outlook would prompt the
central bank to scale back stimulus.  “The Fed may have just delayed the inevitable,”  Valentin Marinov , head of Group of 10 foreign-exchange strategy at
Citigroup Inc. in London, said at the event. “We could be on
the verge of the next dollar bull run.”  After the Fed refrained from reducing its monthly asset
purchases at last month’s meeting, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
the central bank would decide on whether to taper purchases
based on “what’s needed for the economy.” The Fed signaled
that day it needs to see more signs of sustained labor market
gains before slowing the pace of purchases.  Taper Speculation  Companies added fewer workers than projected in September,
indicating the U.S. job market is struggling to gain momentum, a
private report based on payrolls showed today. The 166,000
increase in employment followed a revised 159,000 gain in August
that was smaller than initially estimated, according to the ADP
Research Institute in Roseland,  New Jersey . The median forecast
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 180,000 advance.  Speculation on when the Fed will start to withdraw stimulus
is the biggest driver of foreign-exchange markets after the
decision to press on with bond purchases weakened the dollar and
boosted emerging-market currencies, Citigroup’s Marinov said.  The U.S. bank’s economists see a 50 percent chance that the
Fed will start tapering by December, an 80 percent chance by
January 2014 and a 100 percent chance by March 2014.  Biggest Losers  Emerging-market and commodity currencies will remain the
biggest losers as the dollar starts to advance, Marinov said.  Morgan Stanley predicts the dollar will advance to $1.25
per euro by the middle of next year, Morgan Stanley’s Stannard
said. The U.S. currency weakened 0.4 percent to $1.3584 per euro
at 5:58 p.m. London time after reaching $1.3607, the weakest
level since Feb. 4. The greenback depreciated 0.6 percent to
97.45 yen after touching 97.15, the weakest level since Aug. 28.  “The dollar recovery has probably been delayed” because
the decision to taper stimulus was pushed back, Stannard said.
“While the policy is aimed at supporting growth and asset
prices, it will provide a positive environment for the dollar.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  