-- Morgan Lewis Elects McKeon Chairwoman: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-10-02T11:27:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/morgan-lewis-elects-mckeon-first-chairwoman-business-of-law.html
Jami Wintz McKeon was elected
chairwoman of Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP, the first woman to
hold the position at the firm.  She succeeds Francis M. Milone, who led Morgan Lewis for 14
years. McKeon, the firm’s litigation practice group leader,
begins her five-year term next October, after a year of
transition.  McKeon “has been an inspiring and innovative leader as
head of our global litigation practice; she has been a model of
success and excellence as a practicing lawyer; and she has been
an effective and caring mentor to lawyers of all generations,”
Milone said in a statement.  McKeon, whose practice focuses on complex litigation,
including class and mass actions, and civil and regulatory
proceedings, began working at Morgan Lewis in Philadelphia in
1981. As head of the litigation practice, she oversaw its
expansion, particularly in  London  and Moscow, the firm said.  “We will continue to focus on New York, Washington and
California in the U.S. and continue to focus on where our
clients need us internationally -- in financial markets, energy
dominated or IP,” McKeon said in a phone interview yesterday.
“We will continue that focus and growth in a deliberate way.”  Under Milone’s leadership of the firm, which began in 1999,
Morgan Lewis added 13 of the firm’s 25 offices. The firm
strengthened its practices with a focus on energy, financial
services, technology, and life sciences mattes during this time.  McKeon, who had two children as an associate at Morgan
Lewis and two as a partner, said her rise to the top of
management was a reflection of the firm’s inclusive culture,
where issues of gender “did not seem to get in the way.”  Her position is the latest of several announcements of
women taking the helm. Yesterday, Kimberly Leach Johnson took
over as the head of Quarles & Brady LLP, becoming that firm’s
first chairwoman. Last October, Kim Koopersmith of Akin Gump
Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP was named chairwoman, also a first for
that firm. Other women leading firms include Valerie Ford Jacob
of Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP and Goodwin
Procter LLP chairman Regina Pisa.  Morgan Lewis has more than 1,600 legal professionals in 25
offices across the U.S., Europe, Asia and the Middle East.  News  U.S. Seeks Delay of Civil Cases as Government Shutdown Begins  U.S. Justice Department lawyers from New York to San
Francisco are asking judges to delay civil cases as the
government partially shuts down, and in  Manhattan  already won a
halt to litigation in all but one trial.  The Justice Department made the requests in prominent cases
including its bid to block the merger of  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) 
and AMR Corp. in Washington and others including an antitrust
suit in San Francisco pressing Bazaarevoice Inc. to sell assets.
Federal attorneys are seeking delays in cases such as the
 Depository Trust and Clearing Corp. ’s suit against the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission over rules for swaps data.  The scope of delays sought by the Justice Department is
laid out on its website, which says criminal litigation will
continue without interruption while civil litigation will be
curtailed or postponed as much as possible without significantly
compromising “the safety of human life or the protection of
property.”  If a court denies a request to suspend case, the government
will continue to staff it, considering the judge’s order “legal
authorization to continue” with staffing at the minimum level,
Justice Department planners said.  While prosecutors say they have been immediately pinched by
the government shutdown, the federal court system can run for
about two weeks without furloughing staff by tapping into fees
from filings and other sources, according to a statement by U.S.
District Judge John Bates, who is director of the Administrative
Office of the U.S. Courts. Bates’ statement came before the
shutdown began.  Once those funds have been spent, the court system would
continue to handle most cases, according to Bates.  Federal judges would remain on the job, though it’s unclear
whether magistrate and bankruptcy judges would be paid until the
crisis is resolved and payments to jurors and court-appointed
criminal defense lawyers might be deferred, he wrote in his
statement.  For more, click here.  CFTC Enforcement Chief David Meister to Step Down This Month  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s David Meister, the enforcement chief who pursued investigations of MF
Global Holdings Ltd. and interest-rate manipulations, plans to
step down this month.  Gretchen Lowe, the enforcement division’s chief counsel,
will serve as acting director after he departs, the CFTC said
yesterday in a statement. Meister, who previously worked as a
federal prosecutor and attorney in private practice, hasn’t
announced other plans, said  Steve Adamske , an agency spokesman.  The probe into manipulation of the London interbank offered
rate and other benchmarks was among the widest-ranging in CFTC
history. The agency began the investigation in 2008, and, on
Meister’s watch, was among regulators that reached more than
$2.5 billion in settlements with  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, UBS AG and ICAP Plc.  “David has brought energy, talent and experience to our
critical mission to protect the public from fraud and abuse and
ensure market integrity,” CFTC Chairman Gary Gensler said in a
separate statement. “He is a tough but fair former federal
prosecutor who will be missed by all at the CFTC.”  Meister said in the release that the time had come to
return full time to his family in New York. He called Lowe “a
gifted attorney with superior judgment, who has the respect of
the staff, and who is strongly committed to executing the
enforcement mission.”  Under Meister’s watch, the CFTC also joined other
regulators in examining  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s $6.2 billion
trading loss in London last year. The regulator is looking into
whether the company manipulated trading in credit derivatives,
people familiar with the matter said last month. The agency
hasn’t yet brought claims in that case.  He was  picked to run  the CFTC division in November 2010
from the law firm Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP,
where he was a partner specializing in white-collar criminal
cases. He previously was an assistant U.S. attorney in
Manhattan, serving on that office’s securities and commodities
fraud task force.  Skadden didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment
on whether he will return to the firm.  For more, click here.  Firm News  NFL Free-Agent Lawyer Set to Unlock $16 Billion in NCAA Athletes  Jeff Kessler, a  Winston & Strawn LLP attorney who helped
bring free agency to the National Football League, is about to
focus on the unpaid athletes who generate more than $16 billion
in college sports television contracts.  New York-based Winston & Strawn is starting what it
describes as the first college-focused division at a major law
firm to represent players, coaches, schools and conferences
against what Kessler, 59, described as “the unbridled power and
influence” of the National Collegiate Athletic Association.  “The NCAA should stand up and take notice that Jeff is
involved,” said Bob Lanza, a former National Basketball
Association players’ union general counsel who worked alongside
Kessler and is now a partner in O’Neill & Lanza, a professional
sports advisory firm. “I can’t think of anybody more qualified
to start this type of department.”  Ed O’Bannon, a former basketball All-American at UCLA who
is suing the NCAA over the use of his image in commercial
ventures, reacted to the news by saying: “Wow! Jeff Kessler.”  College athletes, past and present, are taking increasingly
vocal, visible and litigious steps against what they consider to
be unfair rules set by the NCAA, which doesn’t permit athletes
to be paid. The agency faces lawsuits by former players that
could seismically alter the sports landscape and, according to
Steve Berman, managing partner of the Seattle-based law firm
Hagens Berman Sobol Shapiro, dissolve the 107-year-old governing
body of college athletics.  “What’s at stake is a lot of money -- and their
survival,” said Berman, whose firm represents former University
of Nebraska quarterback Sam Keller in a class-action lawsuit
against the NCAA over the use of player likenesses in video
games and promotions. “Sometimes it takes litigation to make
social change.”  NCAA spokeswoman Stacey Osburn said in an e-mail that the
organization wouldn’t comment on Kessler or his firm’s entry
into college sports.  Winston’s college group will be run by partner David Greenspan and associate Tim Nevius, who joined the firm from the
NCAA, where he worked as an associate director of enforcement.  “No one has an attorney like Tim,” Greenspan said on a
conference call interview last week with Kessler and Nevius.  The 33-year-old Nevius said his work at the NCAA enables
him to know “what the enforcement staff is targeting in their
investigations and what angle they take when looking at
violations.”  For more, click here.  White & Case Opens Office in Kazakh Capital Astana  White & Case LLP opened a second office in Kazakhstan, in
the capital Astana. The new office will be headed by Maxim
Telemtayev, the executive partner in the firm’s existing office
in Almaty.  “The firm has been present in Kazakhstan for nearly 20
years since we launched our office in Almaty in 1995,” White &
Case chairman Hugh Verrier said in a statement. “This move
demonstrates our continuing commitment to our clients investing
in Kazakhstan and the international activities of our Kazakh
clients.”  The firm said it expects about nine lawyers to be located
in Astana by the end of the year. Office head Telemtayev, who
handles mergers and acquisitions matters, has expertise in the
renewable energy, mining and metals and oil and gas industries,
according to his firm bio. Among his most recent legal work is
handling debt restructuring and subsequent acquisition of
Kazakhstan’s largest bank and an equity acquisition of a power
plant in Kazakhstan.  “Kazakhstan’s business hub has been shifting steadily to
Astana ever since it became the country’s capital city,” he
said in a statement. “Establishing an office in Astana will
ensure we’re ideally positioned to support our clients
effectively while strengthening the platform from which the
ongoing development of our Kazakh practice will continue.”  White & Case has lawyers in 40 offices in 27 countries.  Dentons and McKenna Long in Talks to Merge, Firms Confirm  Dentons LLP, the 2,600-lawyer global law firm formed by a
merger with Fraser Milner Casgrain, Salans and SNR Denton,
completed in March, is eyeing a new combination. The union could
be with McKenna Long & Aldridge LLP, which also recently
undertook a major combination. Last year the firm acquired
 California  law firm Luce Forward Hamilton & Scripps, giving the
firm more than 600 attorneys at 15 offices in the U.S., Brussels
and  Seoul .  The two law firms both confirmed the talks in a statement
but declined to announce a partnership. Both made complimentary
statements about their potential merger partners.  Dentons said it’s interested in McKenna because of its
“industry-leading government contracts practice, premier
insurance sector work, and enhanced California team from legacy
Luce Forward.”  In a statement from McKenna confirming the discussions, the
firm said it was exploring possibilities for expansion with
several firms. “Dentons, with 75 locations in more than 50
countries and a commitment to delivering creative, dynamic
business and legal solutions, is one such firm,” according to
the statement.  Moves  GE Litigator Noga Joins Jenner & Block’s New York Office  Jenner & Block LLP said Joseph L. Noga has joined the firm
in the complex commercial litigation practice in New York. Noga
was most recently the deputy chief of litigation for GE Capital,
the financial services unit of General Electric, the firm said.  “With extensive experience at a Fortune 50 company, Joe
brings a valued in-house perspective that will benefit our
clients,” Susan C. Levy, Jenner’s managing partner said in a
statement. “We recognize that our corporate clients are
increasingly focused on driving their outside litigation counsel
to be efficient and add sensible value. The discipline and rigor
that Joe practiced at GE will help us satisfy our client’s
business objectives in managing the litigation process.”  At GE Capital, Noga managed teams handling hundreds of
litigation and investigative matters, including matters that
Jenner attorneys worked on with Noga.  Jenner’s New York office was established in 2005 and has
grown to more than 50 attorneys across litigation and
transactional disciplines. The firm has approximately 480
attorneys at offices in  Chicago , Los Angeles, New York and
 Washington .  Former WTO Deputy Director General Joins King & Spalding  Alejandro Jara, former deputy director general of the World
Trade Organization, has joined King & Spalding LLP as senior
counsel in the WTO and international trade practice in the
Geneva office.  Jara was the deputy director general at the WTO since 2005.
He was  Chile ’s ambassador to the WTO from 2000 to 2005.  “Alejandro’s substantial WTO expertise, his unique
experience in the global trading system and the broad scope of
his knowledge of trade and investment issues further strengths
our international trade team,” Daniel Crosby, managing partner
of King & Spalding’s Geneva office said in a statement.  King & Spalding’s WTO and international trade practice has
more than 40 lawyers and trade professionals. The firm has 800
lawyers in 17 offices in the U.S., Europe, the Middle East and
Asia.  Health Care and Employment Partners Join Epstein Becker  Epstein Becker Green PC announced the addition of two new
lateral partners, both in  Newark . Mollie O’Brien, former in-house counsel in the health care industry, joins the firm as a
member of the health care and life sciences practice. Jeremy M. Brown, formerly of Proskauer Rose LLP, joins the labor and
employment practice.  O’Brien previously served as a senior vice president, legal
affairs and general counsel at Emergency Medical Associates in
Parsippany, New Jersey, a group of 400 emergency medicine
providers. She was also general counsel and chief operating
officer of Superior Insurance Company, also in Parsippany.  Brown’s practice concentrates on complex employment
litigation, including discrimination, harassment, and
retaliation claims; whistle-blower claims; defamation, breach of
contract, and other matters.  Epstein Becker has approximately 275 lawyers in nine U.S.
offices.  Bankruptcy  New York City Opera Lawyer Expects Bankruptcy Filing Today  New York City Opera , created 70 years ago as the “people’s
opera,” expects to file for bankruptcy protection today and
either liquidate in court or be sold to another institution, its
lawyer, Kenneth Rosen of Lowenstein Sandler LLP, said.  The nonprofit organization, which this year produced “ Anna
Nicole ,” about the late tabloid celebrity, failed to reach its
fundraising goal of $7 million, Rosen said Sept. 30 in phone
interview.  “There have been many, many generous donors -- a lot of
people appreciate what the New York City Opera does, and it does
a wonderful thing,” said Rosen, who has worked with the opera
for two years. “But right now we don’t have the $7 million that
we need to go forward with the season.”  The opera company last week posted an “urgent” notice on
its website seeking donations to help raise $20 million,
including the $7 million it said it needed by Sept. 30 for the
current season. Just $291,952 was pledged by 2,027 people as of
Sept. 30 in an online  Kickstarter  campaign.  “The opera has obviously been trying to avoid this,”
Rosen said. “Over the past several years, it has been doing
everything conceivable to reduce overhead, reduce expenses,”
including moving from Lincoln Center to City Center.  George Steel, the artistic director and general manager
since 2009, wrote in a mass e-mail on Sept. 26 that the opera
“is on the verge of canceling its season and filing for
bankruptcy.”  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 