-- Morocco’s Phosphate Producer Expects Plantings Will Boost Demand
-- B y   S o u h a i l   K a r a m
-- 2013-10-03T05:14:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/morocco-s-phosphate-producer-forecasts-more-demand-on-plantings.html
Fertilizer usage will expand as
farmers boost plantings of corn and soybeans, according to
Office Cherifien des Phosphates, the largest phosphate exporter.  Increased plantings including expanded soybean area in
 Brazil  will boost fertilizer demand, Mustapha el-Ouafi,
executive sales director, said in an interview at the company’s
headquarters in Casablanca. Growers in  South America  are
starting to plant crops that will be harvested next year.  “OCP bets on demand from South America and  Africa  for
future growth,” Meryem Chami, planning and steering executive
director of the company, said in the same interview. “We should
be able to take half the growth in global demand for phosphate-based fertilizers.”  The U.S. will reap 28 percent more corn this season,
doubling inventories before next year’s harvest after losing
market share to shippers in Brazil,  Argentina  and Ukraine.
Global supply is surging after prices reached a record $8.29 in
2012 and futures are heading for the biggest annual drop in at
least five decades.  While corn futures have dropped 37 percent this year in
 Chicago , the December prices are lower than they are for futures
for July and next December.  “There is a softening in prices of corn which we don’t
expect to last as indicated by evolution in six-month future
contracts,” El-Ouafi said.  Office Cherifien des Phosphates plans to boost its market
share to 40 percent of global demand for phosphate-based
fertilizers by 2020 from 16 percent now, and plans to triple
production capacity, Chami said.  The company has assets of 102.2 billion dirhams ($12.38
billion), and plans to invest 140 billion dirhams by using “all
kinds of financing instruments,” Ghizlane Guedira, finance
director, said in the same interview. The company may issue
bonds in the domestic market, Guedira said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Souhail Karam in Casablanca at 
 skaram5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  