-- Perry's Travels Yield No Jobs as Texas Governor's Rivals Seethe
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-10-02T15:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/perry-s-travels-yield-no-jobs-as-texas-governor-s-rivals-seethe.html
Governor  Rick Perry , working with a
group of closely allied business leaders, has raised more than
$2 million to finance his travels to lure jobs to  Texas . So
far, he hasn’t brought one back.  Starting with a four-day trip to  California  in February,
Perry has traveled to Connecticut, Illinois, Maryland, Missouri
and New York to urge businesses and residents to move to the
Lone Star state. Texas added more than 30 percent of the
nation’s new jobs over the past decade because it doesn’t tax
personal or corporate income and avoids excessive regulation and
frivolous lawsuits, Perry tells broadcast audiences.  Attracting free publicity helps Perry keep his name in the
news as he considers another bid for the presidency, said
California Lieutenant Governor Gavin Newsom, a Democrat who
visited Perry in 2011 to learn about Texas’s economic
development strategies. Perry plans to leave office in January
2015 after 14 years leading the second-most-populous state.  “I don’t see any hard data that show his trips have had
any impact other than getting Governor Perry a lot of
attention,” Newsom said. “There’s a little Barnum and Bailey
here.”  Not Yet  Perry can’t identify expansions tied to the trips this year
because it’s too soon for companies to make such decisions, said
Lucy Nashed, a spokeswoman. All six states Perry targeted are
led by Democratic governors and have higher taxes and burdensome
rules, she said.  “It’s always going to make some people uncomfortable when
another governor comes into their state, but he does it
civilly,” she said.  Most governors emphasize growth of existing businesses,
which leads to more job growth than relocations, said Mac
Holladay, an Atlanta consultant who led economic development
departments in Georgia,  Mississippi  and  South Carolina .  “Trying to lure businesses by using trips to other states
isn’t unique to Rick Perry, but he may be doing it in a more
ham-handed way,” said former Pennsylvania Governor  Ed Rendell ,
a Democrat who now runs his own consulting firm.  “He’s done a good job on transportation and economic
development,” said Rendell. “Other than that, I think he’s
nuts.”  Tight Lips  A quieter approach to recruiting worked when Toyota picked
Mississippi for a plant in 2007 after the New York Times
reported the automaker was choosing Arkansas or Tennessee,
former Governor  Haley Barbour  said. Japanese executives prefer
tight lips, he said.  “Politicians want to brag,” said Barbour, a former
chairman of the  Republican National Committee . “It didn’t serve
any interest to show our hand.”  Perry overstates his impact on  job creation , said former
Houston mayor  Bill White , a Democrat who lost to Perry in the
2010 governor’s race. Texas’s economic strength stems from oil
and gas production, net migration from the U.S., Mexico and
other countries, and a pro-business climate dating back
generations, White said in a Sept. 29 interview.  “Those things have very little to do with who is
governor,” said White, a partner at the  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  investment
bank. “Governors have more influence on longer-term investments
such as transportation and education.”  Economic Health  Texas employment is growing by about 2 percent through July
this year, slightly faster than the U.S., and comparable to its
average growth pace of the past 30 years, according to a Sept.
18 report by the Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas .  In the second quarter, Texas’s economic health gained 2.6
percent, about in the middle of the pack of 50 states plus the
 District of Columbia , according to the Bloomberg Economic
Evaluation of States index. Its employment growth was second-highest after Idaho’s.  Still, the state has the highest percentage of residents
without health insurance among U.S. states, while per-pupil
public-school spending trails every state except  Arizona  and
Nevada. Texas ranked 25th in per-capita income in 2012, compared
with 30th in 2002, according to U.S. Department of Commerce
data.  Texas’s growth story reversed during the technology and
telecommunications industry downturn in 2001 and 2002, as the
state lost a higher percentage of jobs than the U.S. average.  Hunting Jobs  In 2003, Perry intensified industry-hunting after lawmakers
merged economic-development efforts under his office. The change
led to TexasOne, a nonprofit group that pays for Perry’s trips
and ads with money from businesses, chambers of commerce and
local, tax-funded economic-development groups.  While TexasOne doesn’t receive state money, it works
closely with Perry’s staff. David Cabrales, a Dallas lawyer who
led TexasOne’s board in 2011 and 2012, said he couldn’t discuss
the group’s work without approval from Perry.  TexasOne initially focused on meeting site-selection
consultants who work for companies considering relocations, said
Bob Wingo, an El Paso advertising-agency president and a
director from 2004 to 2010. In recent years, TexasOne sponsored
interstate and overseas recruiting trips, typically led by the
secretary of state or, on a few occasions, Perry himself,
according to the group’s annual reports.  “It’s an incredibly targeted effort that paid dividends
over and over,” Wingo said, citing Toyota Motor Corp.’s plant
in San Antonio and Automated Data Processing Inc.’s El Paso
operations center as examples of business expansions facilitated
by the group.  Texas Expansions  Perry’s office provided a list of several dozen companies
that have expanded in Texas over the past decade, including
Google Inc., Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., Apple Inc. and
 Fidelity Investments . Many received subsidies through the Texas
Enterprise Fund, which has spent $500 million to attract and
retain businesses since 2004.  This year Perry revamped TexasOne’s approach, making
himself pitchman on the interstate trips and in advertisements
promoting Texas. He is listed as the keynote speaker at the Oct.
5 California  Republican Party  Fall Convention in Anaheim.  “I hear building a business in California is next to
impossible,” he said in an ad earlier this year.  Democratic Governor  Martin O’Malley  “has made Maryland the
tax and fee state, where businesses and families are paying some
of the highest taxes in America,” Perry told Baltimore-area
radio listeners.  Low Taxes  Perry spoke to Missouri’s chamber of commerce as ads on  St.
Louis  and Kansas City television stations criticized the state’s
tax policy. The chamber didn’t know about the ads when it agreed
to host Perry, spokeswoman Karen Bushman said.  Governor Jay Nixon called the chamber of commerce’s meeting
a “direct contravention of the purposes of that organization,
which is to enhance and support Missouri businesses,” according
to a statement.  Perry is expanding his promotion of low taxes and limited
regulation through Americans for Economic Freedom, a new tax-exempt group whose directors include former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  and August Busch III, ex-chairman of Anheuser-Busch
Cos. Inc.  TexasOne has raised the ante to pay for Perry’s
barnstorming. While donations topped out at $75,000 annually
through 2012, two companies -- Ryan LLC, a Dallas-based tax
adviser, and North Cypress Medical Center, a privately owned
Houston hospital -- each gave $250,000 this year, according to
the TexasOne website.  Ryan Chairman Brint Ryan declined to comment. Telephone
calls to North Cypress owner Robert Behar weren’t returned.  Ten other companies or groups donated $100,000 each this
year, including AT&T Inc., Landry’s Seafood Restaurants Inc.,
and  Energy Transfer Partners LP. (ETP)   Top members of TexasOne agreed in March “to raise money to
fund a more robust effort to market Texas and its economic
development advantages,” Chairman J. Bruce Bugg Jr., a San
Antonio banker, said in an e-mailed statement. “Governor Perry
has served as the face of those ads.”  Perry will keep taking the Lone Star story on the road,
said Steve Munisteri, the state Republican Party chairman.  “You’ve got to understand the Texas swagger,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  