-- Poland Leaves Main Rate at Record Low to Gauge Recovery
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-10-02T16:23:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/poland-leaves-main-rate-at-record-low-to-gauge-recovery.html
Poland left borrowing costs at a
record low for a second meeting as the central bank assesses a
recovery in the European Union’s largest eastern economy.  The Narodowy Bank Polski kept the  reference rate  at 2.5
percent, matching the estimates of all 40 economists in a
Bloomberg  survey . Policy makers reiterated last month’s pledge
to hold rates steady through year-end as the economy emerges
from the slowest  growth  since 2009.  Poland cut borrowing costs by 225 basis points between
November and July as the economic slowdown curbed  tax revenue 
and prompted a 40 percent jump in this year’s planned budget
deficit. While manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace in
more than two years in September,  inflation  has lagged behind
the central bank’s 2.5 percent goal for nine months.  “The economic picture we’re getting is quite mixed and
this supports our expectation that the Polish economy will
continue to recover, but very gradually,” Belka told a news
conference today in Warsaw. “We’ve noticed that the high-frequency data for August were actually a bit weaker than in
July. I’d say that the PMI figure, on the other hand, was
amazingly strong.”  Weaker Zloty  The zloty has lost 3.1 percent against the euro this year,
underperforming currencies in other eastern European nations
including Romania and  Hungary , data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The zloty traded at 4.211 per euro at 5 p.m. in Warsaw, little
changed from yesterday. The yield on the 10-year government bond
fell 2 basis points to 4.4 percent from yesterday.  Asked in an interview in  New York  on Sept. 27 if he agrees
with MPC members who say Polish rates should remain on hold
until at least mid-2014, Belka said his view doesn’t differ
significantly.  “We are keeping interest rates at historically low levels
and we believe it won’t have negative impact, for at least some
time, on inflation and financial stability,” he said.  Policy makers “didn’t speak at all about the possibility
of extending the horizon for  interest-rates  moves or consider
plans for the longer term,” Belka said today.  Gross domestic product rose 0.4 percent from the previous
three months in the second quarter, accelerating after 0.2
percent growth in the first as the euro area, which buys 51
percent of Polish exports, emerged from a record-long recession.  ‘Below Potential’  “While data from the real economy and leading indicators
suggest the economy will accelerate in the coming quarters,
growth will remain below potential and inflation will stay below
target,” Cezary Chrapek, an economist at Citigroup Inc.’s
Polish unit in Warsaw, said yesterday in a note to clients.
“The central bank will have no reason to change rates until at
least the middle of next year.”  Eastern European central banks are adopting different
policies as their economies display varying degrees of recovery.
Hungary cut interest rates to a record low last week and said it
saw room for more easing, while Czech policy makers kept the
benchmark rate at what they call a “technical zero” of 0.05
percent for a seventh meeting on Sept. 25.  Poland won’t start tightening policy until 2015, according
to  William Jackson , an emerging-markets economist at London-based Capital Economics Ltd.  “There is ample spare capacity in the economy, which means
inflation is unlikely to rise substantially, even as growth
picks up,” he said today in a note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  