-- Oi, Portugal Telecom to Merge, Creating $17 Billion Giant
-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 2013-10-02T20:37:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/portugal-telecom-to-combine-with-oi-into-carrier-led-by-bava.html
Oi SA,  Brazil ’s biggest phone
company, agreed to merge with Portugal Telecom SGPS SA to create
a trans-Atlantic carrier whose 100 million customers make it
more competitive against Telefonica SA and  America Movil  SAB.  Shareholders of Oi will own the majority of the combined
company after the transaction, which requires the Rio de
Janeiro-based carrier to sell new stock for as much as 2.7
billion euros ($3.7 billion). Its shares soared as much as 12
percent in Sao Paulo. Portugal Telecom, whose investors will get
38 percent of the new Brazil-based entity, jumped as much as 23
percent in Lisbon.  The combined company, with almost $17 billion in annual
sales, would be positioned to take advantage of the growth in
 Latin America  as  Europe ’s phone market shrinks. The merger will
generate cost savings and additional revenue valued at about 1.8
billion euros, helping the new company challenge larger rivals
 Telefonica (TEF) , Telecom Italia and America Movil in the world’s
fifth-biggest wireless market.  “Portugal Telecom gets 38 percent of new company without
getting involved with the rights issue per se, and Oi gets more
operational and financial flexibility, additional assets and de-risks,” said Guy Peddy, an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in
 London . The deal “will help turn Oi into a clean equity and
investment story.”  Brazil Incorporated  Zeinal Bava, the former Portugal Telecom chief executive
officer who became the head of Oi in June while continuing to
run the Portuguese carrier’s domestic operations, will lead the
enlarged company, which will be incorporated in Brazil. Oi
Chairman Jose Mauro will have the same role in the new company,
while Portugal Telecom Chairman Henrique Granadeiro will be vice
chairman.  “The new company will have access to capital at much more
competitive prices,” Bava said today on a video-conference.
“It’s definitely going to attract many investors.”  Oi jumped 5.2 percent to 4.44 reais at the close in  Sao
Paulo , valuing the company at 7.4 billion reais ($3.4 billion).
Portugal Telecom, the country’s biggest phone company,  rose  6.5
percent to 3.62 euros. The stock had lost 63 percent in the past
three years as stiffer competition in a saturating market
weighed on calling and data prices.  Oi’s $1.5 billion of dollar bonds due 2022 rose the most on
record, climbing 4.6 cents to 91.8 cents on the dollar, sending
yields down 0.8 percentage point to 7.066 percent.  Getting Discounts  While Oi has the most landlines in Brazil, it trails
Madrid-based Telefonica, Milan-based Telecom Italia and Mexico
City-based America Movil in wireless subscribers. By joining
forces with Portugal Telecom, it can apply more pressure to
phonemakers and network-equipment suppliers to offer discounts,
reducing costs.  Telefonica owns a minority stake in Telecom Italia and is
increasing its influence in the company, agreeing last month to
gradually buy out co-investors. That could pave the way for a
possible sale of the Italian carrier’s Brazil unit,  Tim
Participacoes SA. (TIMP3)   While regulators will review the transaction, Brazil
Communications Minister  Paulo Bernardo  said he saw no problem
with it.  “The majority of the capital will be Brazilian,” he said
today in Brasilia. “It looks like there are plans for a big
capitalization and big investments.”  Portuguese Leader  Portugal Telecom Chairman Granadeiro said today the
companies have also informed the Portuguese government of the
transaction.  As part of the terms of the Oi transaction, each Portugal
Telecom share will be exchanged into 0.633 share of the enlarged
company, plus the equivalent of 2.29 euros in the new entity’s
shares at the price of the planned capital increase. Oi
investors will get 1 share in the new company for each Oi voting
share or 0.92 share of the new company for each non-voting Oi
share.  Currently, Portugal Telecom owns 12.1 percent of the
investor group known as TmarPart that controls Oi, and 19.4
percent of the Brazilian carrier’s non-voting shares, according
to Oi’s annual report.  “The merger will consolidate the position of both
companies as the leading operator for Portuguese-speaking
countries,” Portugal Telecom said in a statement.  Capital Increase  Oi is seeking to raise as much as 2.7 billion euros in
cash, with shareholder Telemar Participacoes SA and an
investment vehicle managed by BTG Pactual having agreed to
subscribe to about 700 million euros of that. Portugal Telecom
will also provide assets worth 2 billion euros to Oi, bringing
the total capital increase to 4.7 billion euros.  Bava joined Oi to lead the company’s restructuring after
profit declined in two straight years. His first step was to cut
the dividend by 75 percent and reduce capital expenses.  The merged carriers had 2012 combined revenue of 12.4
billion euros and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization of 4.2 billion euros.  The transaction extends telecommunications mergers and
acquisitions that have totaled about $239 billion this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Last month,  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD)  agreed to sell its stake in  Verizon Wireless  in the
U.S. for $130 billion. Today, Dutch carrier Royal KPN NV’s
shareholders approved the sale of its German business E-Plus to
Telefonica for more than $11 billion.  Best Performer  The cost of protecting Portugal Telecom’s debt against
losses plunged as much as 96 basis points to 370 points in
London, the biggest one-day drop in more than three years. The
contracts were the best performer on the iTraxx Crossover index
of credit-default swaps on 50 European companies with
speculative-grade ratings.  The companies expect to complete the deal in the first half
of 2014, pending regulatory review and shareholders’ approval.
The agreement has the backing of Portugal Telecom’s two biggest
shareholders, Avistar SGPS, controlled by Banco Espirito Santo
SA, and Ongoing’s Nivalis Holding BV, the phone company said.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley and Banco
Espirito Santo are advising Portugal Telecom.  Banco BTG Pactual
SA (BPAC3)  is Oi’s adviser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  