-- Port Expansion Trimmed as Slowdown Dents Trade: Corporate India
-- B y   G a n e s h   N a g a r a j a n   a n d   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-10-03T05:07:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/port-expansion-trimmed-as-slowdown-dents-trade-corporate-india.html
India  plans to cut back expansion of
a port that helps  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Hyundai Motor Co. ship cars
after an economic slowdown and rival facilities dented traffic
for the first time in seven years.  The Chennai Port Trust, which started 128 years ago in the
southern Indian city, is hiring a consultant to help review its
plans and advise on a reduced capacity, Chairman Atulya Misra
said in an e-mail interview. The state-owned operator scrapped a
bid this year to build a terminal that would have more than
doubled its ability to handle 20-foot standard boxes or TEUs.  Container traffic at Chennai Port fell 1 percent in the
year to March 31 as new harbors run by  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT)  and
Navayuga Engineering Co. threaten to lure customers away. The
 weakest  economic growth in a decade, the need to contain the
budget deficit and a dip in trade are leading to the spending
cuts, undermining Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s efforts to
improve infrastructure that is ranked below Kazakhstan and
 Guatemala  by the  World Economic Forum .  “When the mega terminal project was conceived, the
scenario was different from what prevails today,” Chennai
Port’s Misra said. “Container volumes are shrinking and there’s
competition.”  Exports Shrink  Singh had approved the expansion of Mumbai’s Jawaharlal
Nehru Port, the nation’s biggest container facility by volume,
and Chennai Port in 2010 when exports jumped 37 percent and
imports surged 39 percent. Two years later, inbound shipments
grew 6.5 percent and exports shrank 2 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The delays in augmentation have added to congestion at
state-controlled harbors including Chennai and Jawaharlal Nehru
Port, while driving customers to alternative facilities run by
private companies including Mumbai-based Larsen and  Adani Ports
and Special Economic Zone Ltd. (ADSEZ)   The average  turnaround  time for ships at Indian ports was
about 4.2 days during April through August, compared with as
little as six hours in  Singapore  and Hong Kong, according to
data provided by the Indian Ports Association. About 90 percent
of India’s international trade by volume is carried through sea,
according to the shipping ministry.  Private Railway  The long turnaround time at state-owned ports is increasing
the appeal of private operators.  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the
nation’s biggest carmaker, uses billionaire Gautam Adani-
controlled Mundra Port on India’s western coast, which boasts a
64-kilometer private railway line and a four-lane flyover within
the port to move cargo.  In contrast, choked facilities prompted Hapag-Lloyd AG,
 Germany ’s No. 1 container shipping line, to levy a $100 per TEU
congestion surcharge on shipments to and from Chennai in 2011.  Shipments handled at Mundra more than doubled to 1.74
million TEUs in the five years to March 31. During the same
period, traffic at Jawaharlal Nehru Port grew 8 percent.  “If you have the right infrastructure, traffic will flow
to you like water from the highland to lowland,” said Anand Sharma, a director at Mumbai-based Mantrana Maritime Advisory
Pvt., which advises shipbuilders and shipping lines. “The
government’s plan didn’t take the new private terminals into
account. There’s far too much supply than is needed today.”  Spending Cuts  On the east coast, Navayuga-controlled Krishnapatnam Port
Co. started operating a facility in 2011 that can handle 1.2
million TEUs. In April, container vessels started calling at
Larsen’s facility at Kattupalli, 40 kilometers (24.8 miles)
north of Chennai.  With growth in the $1.8 trillion economy slowing amid
pressure to rein in the budget deficit at 4.8 percent of gross
domestic product and avert a ratings downgrade, Singh’s
administration is cutting back the spending needed to improve
its ports. The government slashed its planned expenditure that
includes funds for roads, ports and power plants by 18 percent
in the financial year to March 31.  India’s GDP rose 5 percent in the same year, the least
since 2003, while growth in  industrial output  slowed to a
monthly average of 0.9 percent in 2012 and 2013, compared with
as high as 9.8 percent in 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Shares of Adani Ports have risen 4.5 percent this year,
compared with a 1.8 percent gain in the benchmark S&P BSE
 Sensex (SENSEX) , while Larsen, the nation’s biggest engineering company,
has slumped 24 percent this year.  Borrowing Costs  State-controlled major ports handled traffic of 546 million
tons last year, compared with their capacity of 745 million
tons, according to the ministry. Last year, the government
awarded projects to boost capacity by another 137 million tons.  The highest interest rates among major Asian economies are
also constraining private developers as funding costs go up,
Chennai Port Trust’s Misra said. The  yield  on five-year notes
sold by Indian companies rated AAA jumped to an almost five-year
high of 10.75 percent on Aug. 19, according to indicative rates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Ennore Port Ltd., a state-owned operator used by  Nissan
Motor Co. (7201)  to ship vehicles from its unit in southern India,
scrapped work on a container terminal after the winning bidder
failed to secure financing, Misra said.  “A lot of projects that are being pursued aren’t viable in
today’s market,” said Mantrana’s Sharma. “The state of India’s
economy is not giving investors’ confidence.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ganesh Nagarajan in New Delhi at 
 gnagarajan1@bloomberg.net ;
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  