-- Pound Approaches 9-Month High Versus Dollar on Construction Data
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-10-02T16:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/pound-approaches-8-month-high-before-construction-output-report.html
The pound approached the strongest
level since January versus the dollar as an industry report
showed construction expanded for a fifth month in September,
adding to evidence that the U.K. economy is expanding.  Britain’s currency advanced against most of its 16 major
counterparts after the data showed homebuilding posted its
strongest growth for a decade. Sterling has climbed 7.8 percent
in the past six months, making it the best performer among 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, as an improving outlook spurred bets the  Bank
of England  will increase borrowing costs sooner than it has
predicted. Gilts were little changed.  “We think sterling’s outperformance versus the euro
continues from here,” said  Adam Cole , the London-based head of
Group-of-10 currency strategy at Royal Bank of  Canada . “We’re
still seeing, on balance, positive surprises in the data in the
U.K. The upward revision to growth forecasts is set to continue
and that provides a positive background for the currency.”  The pound advanced 0.2 percent to $1.6229 at 4:56 p.m.
 London  time after touching $1.6260 yesterday, the highest level
since Jan. 2.  Sterling fell 0.3 percent to 83.79 pence per euro after
reaching 83.33 pence yesterday, the strongest level since Jan.
17. It dropped versus the euro after European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said the 17-nation currency’s exchange
rate is not a policy target. Draghi spoke after officials kept
the ECB’s benchmark interest rate at a record-low 0.5 percent.  Sterling will advance to 81 pence per euro by the end of
the year, Cole said.  Residential Growth  An index of  building activity  was 58.9 from a record-high
59.1 in August, Markit Economics said today in London. The gauge
has been above 50, the level separating expansion from
contraction, since May. The median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a gain to 59.5.  Residential construction was the strongest performing
building sector last month, expanding at its fastest pace since
November 2003, Markit said.  The Bank of England has pledged to keep the benchmark
 interest rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent at least until the
 unemployment rate , now at 7.7 percent, drops to 7 percent,
something it doesn’t see happening until the end of 2016. Money
market rates show investors are betting on an earlier increase.  Two-year  gilt yields  fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 0.43 percent. They have risen from this
year’s low of 0.16 percent reached in April as prospects of the
 Federal Reserve  announcing a withdrawal of monetary stimulus
pushed up rates around the world.  ‘Positive Flow’  Investors may be reacting to “the positive flow of
economic data since the start of August” that’s been
“consistently stronger than market expectations,” Bank of
England Markets Director  Paul Fisher  said in a speech in London
today.  A link between U.S. and U.K. short rates may be overdone
and is “unhelpful given the relatively subdued recovery in the
U.K.,” Fisher said. “It may well be the case that these rates
decouple in future as liquidity improves and the outlook for
each economy develops further.”  The yield on 10-year gilts were little changed at 2.71
percent after sliding to 2.67 percent on Sept. 30, the lowest
level since Aug. 27. The price of the 2.25 percent security
maturing September 2023 was at 95.995.  Gilts lost 2.7 percent this year through yesterday,
according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. German bonds dropped
1.6 percent and Treasuries fell 2.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  