-- Push for Private Debt Collection Clouds IRS Confirmation: Taxes
-- B y   D i a n e   F r e d a
-- 2013-10-02T04:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/push-for-private-debt-collection-clouds-irs-confirmation-taxes.html
A Republican senator is reviving an
old fight over using private companies to help collect tax
debts, an issue that may threaten President  Barack Obama ’s
nomination of John Koskinen as IRS commissioner.  Senator Charles Grassley of  Iowa  wrote to Koskinen last
week asking for his view on private debt collection and seeking
a commitment from him to rely on outside contractors within his
first 60 days as Internal Revenue Service commissioner if he
wins confirmation, Bloomberg BNA reported.  Grassley has been a longtime proponent of the program,
ended in 2009 amid objections from Democratic lawmakers.
Grassley and program backers say contractors should be used to
work on smaller, low-yielding tax debts that aren’t a priority
for IRS employees.  “Instead of raising taxes, as the president and his
supporters want, we need to do a better job of collecting taxes
that are already due and owed,” Grassley said in his Sept. 26
letter to Koskinen.  Grassley, serving his sixth term, is a senior member of the
 Senate Finance Committee  that is considering Koskinen, a former
chairman of U.S.-owned mortgage financier Freddie Mac, for the
IRS job.  Grassley’s push could re-ignite a battle over private debt
collection that pitted him and other Senate Republicans against
the Democrats, the  National Treasury Employees Union  and
consumer advocates.  Government’s Role  Calling tax collection an inherent role for government, the
opponents of the privatization program that had been authorized
in 2004 said the efforts could be performed cheaper and more
efficiently by IRS employees.  The private collectors brought in $68.8 million in tax
debts from 2006 to 2009. As criticism of it mounted, though, the
effort was shut down in 2009 after a study by the  Mitre
Corporation  concluded that given similar resources, IRS
collection was more cost effective.  “The collection of federal taxes is a core government
function that should only be performed by the IRS,”
Representative John Lewis, a Georgia Democrat, said during the
2009 debate on the program. “The  Ways and Means Committee  has
received testimony from a number of sources, including former
IRS officials, that the IRS can collect federal taxes cheaper
and more efficiently than the private collection agencies.”  Grassley, in whose state one of the collection agencies was
located, said the study was flawed and that the program wasn’t
allowed to get past infrastructure costs that would have
improved its cost efficiency figures.  IRS Flexibility  Under the program, the debt collectors were paid 24 percent
of what they collected, and IRS was allowed to keep 25 percent
of the money for its own uses.  In his letter, Grassley stressed the program’s ability to
bring much-needed dollars into IRS coffers without additional
federal appropriations.  “Tax delinquent accounts continue to increase with the
amount in the queue growing by 46 percent over the past five
years,” Grassley wrote. With IRS under fiscal constraints,
“the answer cannot solely be ever larger appropriations from
Congress,” he said.  IRS enforcement actions yielded $50.2 billion in fiscal
year 2012, a 9 percent drop from 2011 in part because of budget
cuts, according to a  report  by the Treasury Inspector General
for Tax Administration released last month.  Reduced Workforce  The IRS shed 8,000 full-time positions from 2010 to 2012
including 5,000 front-line enforcement workers. That represents
a 14 percent reduction, according to the report.  In a statement earlier this year, the IRS said enforcement
revenue totals in 2010 and 2011 were unusually high because they
included revenue from the agency’s voluntary disclosure program
for undeclared offshore accounts.  The IRS audited one in 97 individual tax returns in 2012,
down from one in 90 in 2010. The tax agency has been auditing S
corporations, partnerships and gift-tax returns more frequently
in recent years.  Koshinen, 74, was nominated for the IRS post Aug. 1. He is
a former deputy director of the Office of Management and Budget
under President Bill Clinton and led the government’s efforts to
prepare for converting computer systems for the year 2000.  At one point during his 2008-2011 tenure as Freddie Mac’s
chairman, he also served as its chief executive officer, its
chief financial officer and its chief operating officer.  As IRS commissioner, he would be at the helm of an agency
that has been under attack since May when its officials revealed
extra scrutiny had been to small-government advocacy groups as
they applied for tax-exempt status.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diane Freda in Washington at  dfreda@bna.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cheryl Saenz at  csaenz@bna.com  