-- Putin Says Russian Plan for Pension Transfer Won’t Fleece Savers
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-10-02T16:15:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/putin-says-russian-plan-for-pension-transfer-won-t-fleece-savers.html
Russia ’s plan to transfer 2014
pension savings to cover the pay-as-you-go funding gap isn’t an
attempt scrap the funded part of the system or confiscate
retirement savings, President Vladimir Putin said.  With 2.5 trillion rubles ($78 billion) in the funded
pension system, “the question of their effective use still
isn’t solved,” Putin said during a panel discussion at an
investment forum hosted by VTB Capital in Moscow. “We’ve always
worked from the assumption that these funds should work toward
the development of the economy.”  The government has proposed barring non-state funds from
getting new contributions in 2014 until they re-register as open
joint-stock companies and are accepted into a new insurance
program, while the earmarked money is channeled to distributions
and the state pension fund. That will remove some 450 billion
rubles from the market, Deputy Finance Minister Alexey Moiseev
said in an interview yesterday.  The stopgap measure risks driving up yields and eroding
demand for sovereign and corporate Russian debt, according to
BCS Financial Group and Raiffeisen Capital. The decision is
“extremely unfortunate,” former Finance Minister Alexey Kudrin
said today at the investment conference. He left the government
in 2011 amid disputes with then-President Dmitry Medvedev.  The plan was included in the government’s draft of the
 federal budget  for the next three years, submitted to lawmakers
in the State Duma on Sept. 30.  Bad Precedent  “This sets a precedent that the state can go ahead and
halt savings to increase the revenue and expenses of the
budget,” Kudrin told reporters in Moscow today. “This decision
hurts the investment climate.”  The State Pension Fund currently channels 16 percent of the
22 percent it receives to pay pensions to current retirees and
shifts 6 percent to asset management firms. Vnesheconombank,
Russia’s state development bank known as VEB, manages about 80
percent of the funded part of the system.  The government will work to reach an agreement by year-end
on ways to guarantee money invested with private pension funds,
Putin said. Companies that used to oversee their own pension
funds have been selling the plans to private managers, adding to
risks of mismanagement, VTB Group Chief Executive Officer Andrey Kostin said today.  The maneuver may reduce the federal budget’s transfer to
the Pension Fund by 244 billion rubles in 2014, an amount that
will be set aside in the budget, Finance Minister Anton Siluanov
told reporters yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  