-- TransCanada to Finish Southern Keystone Line by End of Month
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h   a n d   E l i o t   C a r o o m
-- 2013-10-02T22:24:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/transcanada-keystone-gulf-commissioning-seen-by-end-of-october.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  said it expects to
finish construction of the southern portion of the Keystone XL
pipeline network by the end of October.  TransCanada will begin filling its Gulf Coast pipeline with
oil shortly after that, a process that’s forecast to take 30
days, Les Cherwenuk, project director for the company, said in
an interview after a speech at Hart Energy’s Executive Energy
Club in Houston. He declined to discuss the grades of crude that
will be moved via the pipeline, though said that filling it
would be easier with light, or low-density oil.  The Gulf Coast pipeline to Nederland,  Texas , from Cushing,
 Oklahoma , is likely to speed the flow of crude out of Cushing,
the delivery point for West Texas Intermediate futures traded on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Cushing  supplies  fell to 32.8
million barrels last week, the lowest level since February 2012,
the government reported today. They are down 34 percent since
June 28 and reached a record 51.9 million Jan. 11.  “It’s positive for TI because there were lots of rumors
going around that this could get delayed,” said Amrita Sen,
chief oil analyst for Energy Aspects Ltd. in  London . “That was
one of the biggest factors weakening it.”  WTI surged 1 percent in 18 minutes after the comments were
published at 9:42 a.m. in  New York , on speculation that the
pipeline would reduce stockpiles at Cushing.  November-delivery futures gained $2.06, or 2 percent, to
settle at $104.10 a barrel on the Nymex. WTI’s discount to Brent
oil, the European benchmark, narrowed 81 cents, the most in two
weeks, to $5.09 a barrel.  $2.3 Billion Project  Building the 700,000-barrel-a-day Gulf Coast line will cost
$2.3 billion, TransCanada has said. It has been under
construction since August 2012. After the line’s initial
capacity is reached, it will be able to expand capacity to
830,000 barrels a day, according to the company.  Construction was split into three sections. The middle
portion is already finished and the southern part should be
complete in the next week, Cherwenuk said. The northernmost
portion, originating at Cushing, and a terminal at Cushing,
still need to be completed, he said.  The pipeline was originally part of TransCanada’s Keystone
XL project, which entered its sixth year of U.S. review last
month. President  Barack Obama  initially rejected the conduit in
January 2012, citing concerns with its path through ecologically
sensitive lands in  Nebraska .  Bakken Barrels  TransCanada reapplied with a new Nebraska route last year
and split the project in two, proceeding with the Gulf Coast
project -- the southern portion of the network that doesn’t
require a permit.  Cherwenuk declined to speculate on when the company expects
another decision on the northern pipeline. He said the State
Department is poring over thousands of public comments and
trying to address them all in an environmental impact statement.  TransCanada has agreements to ship about 100,000 barrels a
day from the Bakken shale formation in North Dakota on the
northern expansion.  TransCanada hasn’t decided what to do if the State
Department approval doesn’t come through, Cherwenuk said.
Building just the portion between  North Dakota  and Nebraska
while awaiting approval doesn’t make sense because there
wouldn’t be enough shipments to justify a line of the size
planned, he said.  “If something were to occur, then you build a smaller
pipeline, but at this point in time, just building Keystone XL
based on Bakken contract supplies is not attractive,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net ;
Eliot Caroom in New York at 
 ecaroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  