-- RBA’s Vanishing Bias to Cut Drives Aussie Gain: Australia Credit
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-10-02T03:12:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/rba-s-vanishing-bias-to-cut-drives-aussie-gain-australia-credit.html
Reserve Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens 
omitted any mention of having scope for further  monetary easing 
for the third policy meeting in a row. Traders are taking that
as a green light to drive the local currency higher.  The Aussie extended its biggest monthly advance in more
than a year yesterday after the RBA left rates at a record-low
2.5 percent, gaining against all but one of 16 major peers.
Stevens reiterated that further declines in a currency that has
slumped 9.9 percent this year would assist growth, while
flagging that previous rate cuts are supporting parts of the
economy.  “They do want a weaker currency, but they acknowledge that
there’s little they can do about that at this stage if they
don’t think they need to cut rates anymore,” said David Forrester, a senior vice president for Group of 10 currency
strategy at Macquarie Bank Ltd. in  Singapore . “The market will
now begin to price in that the RBA is done and start to price in
rate hikes next year.”  The RBA decision came after data showed Australian  home
prices  surged to a record, manufacturing expanded for the first
time in two years and retail sales beat forecasts. Sentiment
among businesses and households is strengthening as the impact
of 2.25 percentage points of rate cuts over two years filters
through the economy, Stevens said yesterday.  Housing Prices  The RP Data-Rismark capital city index of home prices
jumped 5.5 percent from a year earlier across  Australia ’s major
cities, exceeding by 0.7 percent the previous record level for
the gauge set in October 2010, according to an e-mailed release
yesterday. Sydney and  Melbourne  led gains in the three months to
Sept. 30, climbing 5.2 percent and 5 percent respectively to
all-time highs, based on data that goes back to 1996.  A Performance of Manufacturing  Index (AIGPMI)  climbed to 51.7 in
September, breaching the 50 level that signals expansion for the
first time since June 2011, the Australian Industry Group said.
Separate data showed  consumer spending  climbed 0.4 percent in
August versus the median forecast for a 0.3 percent advance in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc predicted in August the
central bank had finished cutting rates and said investors were
too pessimistic on the Australian economy. The  money manager 
doubts currency gains on their own will compel the RBA to resume
lowering borrowing costs.  Real Economy  “ House prices  are improving, housing finance is on an
upward trend, and with  consumer confidence  being reasonably
strong we think the household sector will increase spending,”
said Justin Tyler, a Sydney-based senior investment manager at
Aberdeen, which oversees A$14 billion ($13.1 billion) of fixed-income assets in Australia. “The currency itself doesn’t put
direct pressure on the RBA, it’s how the real economy reacts to
the currency that is important.”  Business and consumer confidence surged in the leadup to
the Sept. 7 election victory for Prime Minister  Tony Abbott ’s
Liberal-National coalition. Abbott defeated the Labor minority
government pledging to lower taxes and cut red tape to spur the
$1.5 trillion economy as a China-led mining investment boom
crests.  Australia’s dollar traded at 93.65 U.S. cents as of 12:49
p.m. in Sydney, after gaining 0.9 percent yesterday. The world’s
fifth most-traded currency rose 4.7 percent in September, the
biggest monthly advance since June 2012.  The bar for a November RBA cut is “pretty high,” though
continuing gains in the Aussie may force a further reduction,
said Macquarie’s Forrester.  Bets Pared  Traders haven’t ruled out another cut. The odds that the
RBA will reduce its benchmark to 2.25 percent or less by April
are 54 percent, based on swaps data compiled by Bloomberg.  A lower currency will help the Australian economy manage
the end of a record mining investment boom, the RBA said. A
weaker Aussie makes exports cheaper to overseas buyers including
 China , the biggest consumer of the South Pacific nation’s
shipments, and supports manufacturing and tourism.  Australia’s  trade deficit  was wider than analysts forecast
at A$815 million in August, the statistics bureau said today,
compared with the Bloomberg median estimate of A$400 million.
The gap for July was revised higher to A$1.4 billion from A$765
million. A separate report showed  building approvals  in August
also missed estimates, falling 4.7 percent.  Resources Exports  The Bureau of Resources and Energy Economics raised its
forecast for earnings from the export of minerals and energy
resources on a falling currency and rising volumes. The value of
offshore sales may total A$203.76 billion in the year started
July 1, according to a report today. That compares with A$197
billion forecast in June and A$177.4 billion a year earlier, it
said.  Australia is also dealing with an uncertain outlook for its
largest trading partner. A Chinese factory gauge rose less than
economists forecast yesterday, signaling limits on the nation’s
rebound from a two-quarter economic  slowdown . The  Purchasing
Managers ’ Index was at 51.1 for September, compared with the
51.6 median  estimate  in a Bloomberg survey, official data
showed.  “We are not 100 percent sure that Australian central bank
easing has come to an end,” said Naruki Nakamura, the head of
fixed income at BNP Paribas Investment Partners  Japan  in  Tokyo ,
which has the equivalent of $7.8 billion in assets. “I’m not so
convinced about a durable rebound in the Chinese economy. In
that sense, I’m also not 100 percent convinced about the
Australian dollar.”  The Aussie will trade in a range of 89 U.S. cents to 97
cents through the end of the year, he said.  Reserve Managers  Gains in the Aussie are also being supported by central
banks who continued to buy Australian assets in the second
quarter, even as the currency slid 12.3 percent, according to an
International Monetary Fund report released Sept. 30. The
Aussie’s share in foreign exchange reserves rose to 1.7 percent
from 1.6 percent in the first quarter, the data showed.  Central banks have different time horizons, risk tolerance
and objectives than other market participants, said Ankit Sahni,
a New York-based currency strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc.,
before the RBA decision. “It’s not surprising that they’re
going against what the rest of the market is doing.”  Adjusted for currency movements, central banks bought $13.4
billion in Aussie-based assets, led by $9.4 billion in buying by
developed nations, Nomura said, citing the IMF data.  The RBA’s key policy rate will remain unchanged until the
third quarter of 2014, according to 13 of 33 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg before yesterday’s decision. Twelve forecast at
least one further cut and eight expect  interest rates  to rise,
the poll showed.  “There was no explicit bias from the RBA, signaling
they’re on hold for now and no real strong attempt to talk down
the Australian dollar,” said  John Horner , a Sydney-based
currency strategist at Deutsche Bank AG. “It’s going to take a
significant accumulation of negative data from here to move them
away from their current stance.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  