-- RBC to Crack Top 10 of U.S. Junk-Bond Arrangers: Canada Credit
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-10-02T16:50:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/rbc-to-crack-top-10-of-u-s-junk-bond-arrangers-canada-credit.html
Royal Bank of Canada  is on pace to
join the ranks of the 10 largest underwriters of high-yield debt
in the U.S. for the first time as the largest Canadian lender
seeks profits abroad with issuance slowing at home.  Royal Bank’s RBC Capital Markets ranks 10th among arrangers
of speculative-grade bonds at the end of the third quarter after
luring bankers from firms including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Credit
Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)  The Toronto-based firm has never been a top-10
underwriter for non-investment-grade debt in the U.S. on any
given year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I compare Royal to a race car driver who never finishes
in the winner’s circle, but finishes every race and never
crashes,”  Peter Routledge , an analyst at National Bank
Financial, said yesterday in a telephone interview from Toronto.
“You can’t say he doesn’t take risk if he’s running around the
track at 200 miles an hour, but he doesn’t crash and earns a
decent paycheck. That’s Royal.”  RBC is focusing on the U.S. junk-bond market, which is more
than 300 times larger than its domestic counterpart, as booming
sales contrast with a slowdown in  Canada . Record stimulus from
the  Federal Reserve  is filtering into the balance sheets of the
most indebted U.S. borrowers, while in Canada commodity-dependent issuers are suffering from a plunge in resource prices
as Asia curbs consumption.  U.S. Hires  While RBC expects total sales of  junk bonds  in the U.S.
market to surpass last year’s record $353 billion, on Sept. 4 it
cut its annual forecast for Canadian issuance to as little as
C$4 billion ($3.9 billion) from about C$6 billion. The firm
boosted the headcount in its U.S. credit team by 15 percent in
the past two years, hiring almost 20 people, including 10 sales
staff and eight traders. Last month Neil Yaris, who has held
jobs at Credit Suisse and Bank of America Corp., joined as co-head of high-yield debt trading.  “We’ve had a focus over the last two years of upgrading
our talent, increasing our balance sheet selectively and
increasing our resources in the overall credit business,
especially in the U.S.,” Mike Meyer, global head of credit at
 RBC Capital Markets , said in a Sept. 30 phone interview from  New
York . “A lot of our ranking has to do with people; we’ve made a
number of strategic hires on our high-yield desk.”  Retail Retreat  Royal Bank’s long-standing goal to be a Top 10 investment
bank in the U.S. contrasts with retrenchment in other areas of
banking. The company sold its unprofitable U.S. lender RBC Bank
to PNC Financial Services Group Inc. in March 2012, ending an
unsuccessful decade-long foray into U.S. retail banking.  In Canada, RBC slipped to the third spot among underwriters
of high-yield debt, from No. 1 in 2012. Still, the firm has led
arrangers of investment-grade company bonds in Canada for at
least 14 years.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the  Bank of Canada  auctioned
C$2.8 billion of notes today due in June 2024 at an average
yield of 2.64 percent, compared with 2.729 percent at the
auction of the securities on Aug. 14. Today’s offering attracted
C$6.8 billion in bids for a bid-to-cover ratio, a gauge of
demand, of 2.43, versus 2.49 at the August sale.  The extra yield investors demand to own the debt of
investment-grade corporations rather than the federal government
was unchanged yesterday from a day earlier at 127 basis points,
or 1.27 percentage points, the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Canada Corporate Index showed. Yields held at 3.25 percent.  The premium investors demand for provincial debt compared
to federal benchmarks remained at 73 basis points, according to
the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Canadian Provincial &
Municipal Index. Yields rose to 3.06 percent, from 3.05 percent
on Sept. 30.  Corporate Bonds  Corporate debt has lost 0.1 percent this year, compared
with provincial debt’s 2.7 percent drop and a 2.1 percent loss
by federal-government debt.  Government bonds  rose today, with the yield on benchmark
10-year notes dropping one basis point to 2.55 percent. The
price of the 1.5 percent security due June 2023 gained 8 cents
to C$91.07 at 12:47 p.m. in Toronto.  A Bank of America Merrill Lynch index of U.S. junk bonds
has returned 3.8 percent in 2013, compared with a 2.5 percent
loss on investment-grade bonds. In Canada, high-yield bonds
gained 3.3 percent this year to Sept. 30.  RBC arranged high-yield debt sales for companies including
Sprint Corp.,  Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI)  and Ancestry.com Inc. in the
third quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sanchez Energy Corp. (SN) , an oil explorer and producer based in
Houston, hired RBC with Credit Suisse to manage its first junk
bond in June, which it increased last month to a total $600
million.  ‘Relationship Focus’  “There’s some that do more deals than others or are higher
on the league tables, but it’s really the relationship focus and
the delivery of the entire bank -- and the manner in which it’s
done -- that drives us to really favor RBC,” Michael Long,
Sanchez Energy’s chief financial officer, said in a telephone
interview.  In April RBC hired former Credit Suisse banker Steve Oplinger as head of U.S. high-yield and leveraged loan sales and
trading. The company added John Rote, former head of Bank of
America’s high-yield syndicate in New York, in May and Deutsche
Bank researcher Guy Baron in June.  Royal Bank’s return on equity for  capital markets  is at
14.3 percent for the first nine months of fiscal 2013, according
to financial  statements . That compares with 13.5 percent in 2012
and 15.2 percent in 2011.  “They used the crisis and now the aftermath to selectively
poach talent from competitors, and they’ve done that
incrementally,” National Bank’s Routledge said. “If you look
at the return-on-equity in capital markets, it’s held up well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  