-- Treasuries Climb as U.S. Companies Add Fewer Jobs
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-10-02T21:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/treasuries-rise-as-lawmakers-fail-to-progress-on-ending-shutdown.html
Treasuries gained, pushing 10-year
note yields to almost a seven-week low, after a report by ADP
Research Institute showed companies in the U.S. hired fewer
workers than forecast in September, boosting demand for refuge.  The benchmark  yields  slid the most in two weeks as the jobs
report added to bets the  Federal Reserve  won’t soon slow its
bond purchases. Treasuries rose earlier as the partial shutdown
of the U.S. government entered a second day amid speculation it
will merge into the debate over raising the federal debt
ceiling. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said the U.S. has begun
using the last measures available to avoid breaching the limit.  “The weak jobs data confirmed what we’ve heard from the
Fed: that the economy isn’t strong enough for them to pull back
yet,” said  Adrian Miller , director of fixed-income strategies
at GMP Securities LLC in New York. “The Treasury market is also
getting a safe-haven bid from Lew’s letter last night, which
focused the market’s attention on the debt-ceiling crisis.”  Ten-year yields  decreased three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 2.62 percent at 5 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The price of the 2.5
percent debt due in August 2023 rose 9/32, or $2.81 per $1,000
face amount, to 98 31/32. The yields dropped as much as six
basis points, the biggest intraday decline since Sept. 18, to
2.5901 percent. They sank on Sept. 30 to 2.5882 percent, the
least since Aug. 12.  Volume Declines  Trading  volume  at ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer broker
of  U.S. government debt , fell for a second day, declining 1.4
percent to $322 billion. The average daily volume this year was
$316 billion.  Price swings as measured by the Merrill Lynch Option
Volatility Estimate Index dropped for the first time in six
days, declining 6 percent to 82.15. The 2013 average is 72.1.  Rates on Treasury bills that mature Oct. 24 decreased to
0.065 percent, from 0.075 percent yesterday and negative 0.01 on
Sept. 27. Two years ago, one-month bills climbed to a 29-month
high of 0.18 percent as the Aug. 2, 2011, deadline set by
Treasury to avoid a default approached.  Three-month (USGG3M)  bill rates fell to 0.0051 percent, from 0.0152
percent yesterday. They reached negative 0.0101 percent Sept.
27, the lowest this year. The 2013 average is 0.048 percent.  Bonds fell yesterday on speculation the government shutdown
might end soon enough for lawmakers to work on extending the
federal debt limit.  Optimism ‘Dwindling’  “The sentiment that this would only last a couple of days
is dwindling,” said Jason Rogan, managing director of U.S.
government trading at Guggenheim Securities, a New York-based
institutional-investors brokerage. “I don’t think people are
optimistic about a deal getting done in the next day or two.”  Lew, in a letter yesterday to House Speaker  John Boehner ,
repeated that the debt measures will be exhausted no later than
Oct. 17 and urged Congress to extend the nation’s borrowing
authority immediately.  Treasuries remained higher as President  Barack Obama 
summoned the top four leaders of Congress to the White House for
the first high-level talks on reopening the government.  Jay
Carney , White House press secretary, said the Oval Office
meeting wouldn’t be a negotiation. Boehner, Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid , Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  and
House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  were invited. Lew and Vice
President  Joe Biden  will also attend.  Treasuries extended gains after Roseland, New Jersey-based
ADP Research reported companies in the U.S. boosted payrolls by
166,000 in September. The median forecast of 40 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for an advance of 180,000.  ‘More Difficult’  “The weak job number shows we have an economy that is
growing, but not enough to generate a response from the Fed,”
said  Carl Lantz , head of interest-rate strategy in New York at
Credit Suisse Group AG, one of 21 primary dealers that trade
with the Fed. “The potential for a lack of high-quality
government data that may occur if we don’t get Friday’s job data
makes it even more difficult for the Fed to change gears.”  The Labor Department won’t issue its monthly nonfarm
employment data if the government is closed Oct. 4, the
scheduled release date, an Obama administration official said
this week. The report is forecast to show U.S. payrolls grew by
180,000 workers last month, the most since April, according to
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Data on U.S. jobless-benefit claims for the week ended
Sept. 28 will be released as scheduled tomorrow, a Labor
Department spokesman said yesterday in an e-mail.  Fed Stimulus  Treasuries lost 2.5 percent this year through yesterday,
according to the Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Bond Index, reflecting
speculation the Fed was planning to reduce its $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases under the quantitative-easing stimulus
strategy as the economy improved. The Bloomberg  Global (BGSV)  Developed
Sovereign Bond Index has lost 3.2 percent in 2013.  Policy makers said Sept. 18 they want more evidence of an
economic recovery before tapering the purchases.  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  said
investors should focus on buying debt that will benefit from the
market’s mispricing of when the Fed will eventually increase
 interest rates .  “If you want to trust one thing and one thing only, trust
that once QE is gone and the policy rate becomes the focus, that
fed funds will then stay lower than expected for a long, long
time,” Gross wrote in his monthly investment outlook posted on
 Newport Beach , California-based Pimco’s website today. “Right
now the market, and the Fed forecasts, expect fed funds to be 1
percent higher by late 2015 and 1 percent higher still by
December 2016. Bet against that.”  Fed policy makers have held the key  rate target  at zero to
0.25 percent since 2008 and have vowed to keep it there until
the economy and employment show sustained signs of recovery.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  