-- Reinhart Inflection Point Sees U.S. Ditching Torpor: Economy
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-10-02T20:47:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/reinhart-inflection-point-sees-u-s-shaking-off-torpor-economy.html
Listening to factory purchasing
managers and homebuilders, it’s easy to see why  Vincent Reinhart 
believes the  U.S. economy  is on the verge of taking off even as
the federal government shuts down.  A pickup among leading indicators such as the  Institute for
Supply Management ’s  factory index  and  homebuilder confidence  is
evidence that the expansion will accelerate, according to
Reinhart, the New York-based chief U.S. economist at Morgan
Stanley. The manufacturing gauge climbed last month to its
highest level in more than two years, while builder sentiment
held at an almost eight-year high.  The economy’s resiliency in the face of broad federal
spending cuts and flagging global markets is proof of its
underlying strength, says Reinhart. As those headwinds and the
lingering effects of the recession, including tight credit and
consumer deleveraging, begin to fade, companies and households
will boost spending, leading to a 2.75 percent average growth
rate through 2015, he says.  “The data that have come in of a forward-looking nature,
importantly including purchasing managers, do suggest that the
economy is picking up,” Reinhart said in an interview today.
“The key mechanism that gets us that inflection point is
capital spending. Firms begin to feel more confident.”  The projection, which he first issued in March, marked a
change in the outlook for Reinhart. He and his wife, Harvard
economist  Carmen Reinhart , laid out a case for slow recoveries
from deep recessions in a 2010 paper at the Federal Reserve Bank
of  Kansas City ’s annual symposium in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .  Brighter Outlook  The rebound in factory and homebuilder confidence is coming
right on cue in support of a brighter outlook. Manufacturing
sentiment has been stronger than economists projected every
month since July, when the ISM index jumped to 55.4 from 50.9
the prior month, its biggest gain since 1996. A report yesterday
showed the measure rose to 56.2 in September, beating the  median
estimate  of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Fifty is the
dividing line between growth and contraction.  An increase as large as the 7.2 points gained since
reaching a four-year low of 49 in May was last seen when the
economy was emerging from the recession in mid-2009. Such
advances are historically associated with economic turning
points, Morgan Stanley research shows.  “Three months in a row here with very solid numbers
suggests that manufacturing in the U.S. is very strong and well
positioned for continuing strength,” Bradley Holcomb, ISM’s
factory survey chairman, said in a press conference yesterday.
“It certainly is a good sign for the economy.”  Economic Growth  ISM readings as high as last month’s typically coincide
over time with an economy growing at a 4.4 percent pace,
according to the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s research. The
nation’s gross domestic product expanded 1.6 percent in the year
ended June, according to Commerce Department data.  “You really have to rework your thinking about what’s
going on out there,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial
economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  New York .
“The resurgence in manufacturing is a good factor for the
economy right now. World growth is coming back online faster
than people think.”  The growth in manufacturing combined with gains in
employment and an improving housing market means economic growth
is more likely to catch up with the forward-looking measures
such as ISM, rather than the other way around, according to  Carl Riccadonna , senior U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank Securities.
Over the past decade, the factory gauge has had a 67 percent
correlation with GDP, he said.  Leading Indicators  “We’ve had a very sluggish economic recovery, so if the
recovery is plodding along, those lagging indicators are going
to plod along in due course as well,” said Riccadonna. “We are
heading in the right direction here because the leading
indicators are improving.”  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
confidence index registered 58 last month, matching August’s
reading as the strongest since November 2005. Figures greater
than 50 mean more builders view conditions as good than poor.  “Households are more willing to take on debt, there are
stronger income prospects, housing is accelerating from record-low levels, all of this contributes to economic activity,”
Riccadonna said. “It’s really a domestic story.”  Budget Discord  That momentum could be slowed by infighting in Washington,
after discord over President  Barack Obama ’s Affordable Care Act
plunged the federal government into its first partial shutdown
in 17 years. The standoff comes just as the Treasury starts
using final extraordinary measures to avoid breaching the
nation’s $16.7 trillion debt ceiling. The administration says
the limit will be reached by Oct. 17.  “Politicians may very well be putting at risk the pickup
in growth,” said Reinhart. “Confidence is something that can
be derailed by Washington, D.C. Uncertainty poses a cloud that
can impair capital spending.”  Stocks fell today as the government shut down for a second
day. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.1 percent to
1,693.87 at the close in New York.  “What’s going to drive the politicians back to the
negotiating table is constituent pressure, but the main source
of that constituent pressure would be wealth losses,” including
a selloff in stocks, said Reinhart. “If the shutdown goes into
next week, then people will begin to increasingly worry.”  Uncertainty in the near-term could set back gains made in
the labor market, where a drop in  jobless claims , another
leading indicator, points to a strengthening. The number of
people filing applications for  unemployment benefits  averaged
308,000 in the four weeks ended Sept. 21, the least since June
2007, before the recession began.  Payrolls Lean  A decrease in dismissals is usually a harbinger of a boost
in employment. With companies already running lean after the
recession, even the slightest pickup in demand will require more
hiring and greater  capital investment , said Deutsche Bank
Securities’ Riccadonna.  Companies added fewer workers than projected in September,
indicating the job market is struggling to gain momentum, a
private report based on payrolls showed today. The 166,000
increase in employment followed a 159,000 rise in August,
according to the ADP Research Institute in Roseland,
 New Jersey . The Labor Department’s figures, due in two days,
will be delayed if government offices remain closed.  Nonetheless, the recent data indicate the economy is now
better positioned to overcome any hurdles, said Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ’s Rupkey.  “This looks a little more lasting,” Rupkey said. “Each
new year past the recession, the economy should be building
momentum which is sustainable,” he said. “We’re in the fifth
year here, and we’re seeing it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in  Washington  at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  