-- RenCap Names Igor Vayn Sole CEO as John Hyman Set to Leave
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-10-02T15:20:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/rencap-names-igor-vayn-sole-ceo-as-john-hyman-set-to-leave.html
Renaissance Capital, the Russian
investment bank controlled by billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov ,
named Igor Vayn sole chief executive officer after John Hyman
decided to leave, said a spokeswoman, who asked not to be
identified, citing company policy.  “John has been instrumental in achieving the successful
turnaround of the firm and our return to profitability in the
first half of 2013,” Christophe Charlier, deputy CEO of Onexim
Group, Prokhorov’s investment holding, said in an e-mailed
statement. Hyman will stay on “for some time” as an adviser,
he said.  Hyman was hired in October 2011 as co-head of investment
banking and financing at the Moscow-based bank from London hedge
fund Cheyne Capital Management Ltd. He was appointed co-CEO with
Vayn, who joined from Otkritie Capital, in December 2012. Hyman,
a former joint head of global  capital markets  at  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,
confirmed he will be leaving by telephone without giving the
precise timing.  “The RenCap I joined is very different from the RenCap of
today and the world is very different too,” Hyman said in an
interview. “Since I took up a leadership role, it has been one
crisis after another crisis, but I sense the business has
stablized now and it’s less volatile so maybe it’s a good time
to leave.”  RenCap, as the Moscow-based bank is known, has pared back
expansion into faster-growing  emerging markets . It shuttered
sales, trading and research operations in Almaty, Kiev, Beijing,
Hong Kong and some offices in Africa last year and sold assets
in African banks and farming, forestry and infrastructure in
 Russia  and the former Soviet Union.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  