-- Renren Surges on Baidu as Airlines Drop: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-10-02T20:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/renren-surges-on-baidu-as-airlines-drop-china-overnight.html
Renren Inc. (RENN)  jumped in New York on
speculation it will get more investment from other Internet
companies as Chinese airlines fell on concern the U.S.
government shutdown will hurt demand for air travel.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity  Index (HSCEI)  of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. added 0.3 percent to 103.21
yesterday. Renren, owner of a real-name social network website,
jumped to the highest level since August as volumes surged. Web
travel agency  Elong Inc. (LONG)  soared 20 percent.  China Southern
Airlines Co. (ZNH) , Asia’s biggest carrier by passenger numbers, fell
the most in a week and China Eastern Airlines Corp. slid to a
three-week low.  Baidu Inc., which in August bought a stake in Renren’s
group-deal website, may increase its investments in the company,
U.S. Global Investors Inc. said. The U.S. government began its
first partial shutdown in 17 years from Oct. 1, idling federal
employees and closing national parks amid a congressional
wrangle over spending. The International Air Transport
Association said the U.S. shutdown could damp travel demand.  “The U.S. shutdown offers a good excuse to airlines,”
Michael Ding, lead manager of the China Region Fund at  U.S.
Global Investors, which oversees $2.2 billion, said by phone
from San Antonio,  Texas  yesterday. “The U.S. shutdown is
totally a noise in the market, and it will be over very soon.
The growth momentum of China’s Internet sector will continue as
more people are using the Internet.”  Renren Valuation  The iShares China Large-Cap  ETF (FXI) , the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., slipped less than 0.1 percent
to $37.57 in New York, after rallying the most in two weeks the
prior day. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slumped 0.1 percent
as investors looked for progress in efforts to end an impasse
over federal spending as the shutdown completed a second day.  Beijing-based Renren advanced 7.7 percent to $3.92 in New
York, taking a two-day rally to 16 percent, the most since Aug.
13. Trading volume was five times the 90-day average, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed. Baidu bought about 59 percent of
social commerce website Nuomi.com from Renren for about $160
million in August.  Renren’s stock traded at 1.3 times its book value, compared
with a  multiple  of 5 for Sina Corp., which owns the Twitter-like
Weibo service, and 9.9 for Facebook Inc., a social-networking
service provider in the U.S. Renren reported $155 million of
cash by the end of second quarter.  “Some value investors could buy Renren as an undervalued
stock and the company is very close to cash,” Echo He, a New
York-based senior analyst at Maxim Group LLC said by phone
yesterday.  Dangdang, YY  Elong, China’s second-largest travel-booking website, whose
biggest shareholder is Expedia Inc., jumped to $21.75, the
highest price since August 2011. Volume surged to 10 times the
three-month average.  American depositary receipts of China Southern, based in
 Guangzhou , slumped 2.5 percent to $18.51. China Eastern’s ADRs
slipped 1.8 percent to $16.25, the lowest close since Sept. 6.  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG) , the nation’s biggest online
book retailer, rose 8.5 percent to $11.70, the highest price
since Aug. 13.  YY Inc. (YY) , owner of a social entertainment website,
rallied 4.9 percent to $50.47, the highest level since its
listing in November. TV and Internet news outlet  Phoenix New
Media Ltd. (FENG)  added 4.5 percent to a two-year high of $12.23.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index added 0.2 percent to
10,333.59 in its first trading day this month, after rising  9.9
percent last quarter. Markets in mainland  China  will remain
closed until Oct. 8 for a holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  