-- Republicans’ 2014 Senate Edge Muddied by Shutdown Message
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2013-10-02T15:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/republicans-2014-senate-edge-muddied-by-shutdown-message.html
The partial government shutdown may
undermine Republicans’ edge in the 2014 campaign, harming a
prime opportunity to win control of the  U.S. Senate  and protect
their 32-seat House advantage.  Heading into the midterm elections, the political math
favors Republicans. Democrats are defending seven Senate seats
in politically competitive states compared with only two for
their adversaries.  The shuttering of the  government , which is deeply unpopular
with voters, could cut into those advantages by obscuring their
message and highlighting internal rifts, political strategists
from both parties said.  “It’s not helpful for us because it takes Republicans off
offense at a time when we should be taking advantage of a
favorable map,” said  Brian Walsh , of Washington-based Singer
Bonjean Strategies who is a former aide to the party’s Senate
campaign committee. “Republicans should be on offense right now
on Obamacare, and instead, all the focus is on infighting and
the shutdown.”  Voters disapprove of the job being done by congressional
Republicans by 74 percent to 17 percent -- their lowest score
ever -- while disapproving of Democrats’ job performance 60
percent to 32 percent, according to a national  poll  released
yesterday by  Quinnipiac University  in Hamden,  Connecticut .
President  Barack Obama  had a 45 percent to 49 percent job-approval rating.  Saving Grace  “The American people are so fed up they may blame everyone
involved, and that’s not good for Democrats either,” said  Jim Manley , a senior director at Quinn Gillespie & Associates LLC
and a former top aide to Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a
Nevada Democrat. “The saving grace for Senate Democrats in 2014
is that House and Senate Republicans are making their party
brand so toxic they’re going to make our job easier.”  Democrats currently control the Senate with 54 votes to
Republicans’ 46, putting a takeover in reach if Republicans win
a net six seats. Republicans dominate in the House with 232
seats to Democrats’ 200, with three vacancies. Most
congressional districts are politically safe for incumbents
because the House district lines are favorably drawn to match
the voters’ partisan leanings. That makes the task of a
Democratic takeover -- a 17-seat gain -- a tall order.  While the shutdown showdown doesn’t change those facts,
“the Republicans may be widening the path for us” to win
seats, said  New York  Representative Steve  Israel , the chairman
of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.  Chaos Referendum  “This will be a referendum on their dysfunction, their
chaos and their hurting the economy and middle-class families,”
Israel said in an interview.  As national parks closed and federal workers stayed home,
some voters voiced frustration that gridlock persists.  “I don’t necessarily like Obamacare, but the agreement was
made and it became law,” said Brian Anderson of Dalton,
 Georgia , an independent in a heavily Republican district who is
president of his local Chamber of Commerce. Linking an effort to
defund the Affordable Care Act to keeping the government open
“has been farcical,” he added.  Following the 1995-96 partial government shutdowns, then-President  Bill Clinton  won re-election with 49 percent over his
Republican rival,  Bob Dole , while Democrats chipped away at
Republicans’ House majority, gaining two seats without taking
control. Senate Republicans gained two seats and maintained
power.  Obamacare Polling  The next midterms are more than a year away, and the
current saga may be a dim memory for voters by then. What’s
more, the Affordable Care Act, also called Obamacare, is likely
to be an overriding issue in 2014 contests, with Democrats on
defense on what polls show today is an unpopular measure.  The most recent Bloomberg National Poll found 3 in 5
respondents saying they thought the law would raise  medical-care 
costs, not lower them. A third said they would fare worse rather
than better under it. Even so, a majority of Americans said
Republicans should stop demanding the statute be defunded in
exchange for keeping the government open.  “Obamacare will be the bigger issue in 2014,” said
Representative Greg Walden of  Oregon , the chairman of the
Republican House campaign committee. “Government will end up
getting funded at some point, some time -- I mean, it’s not
going to be shut down forever -- and people will move beyond
that.”  Republicans’ refusal to keep the government running as long
as the health-care law remains in full effect will help clarify
voters’ choice in the elections, he added.  Standing Ground  “This is part of governing, standing your ground and
showing people what you believe in,” Walden said.  That’s the stance that small-government  Tea Party  activists
are pressing Republicans to take.  “The most important thing is to protect the American
economy from Obamacare,” said Patti Weaver, the business
manager of her husband’s medical practice in Monroeville,
 Pennsylvania . She voted last year for Representative Keith Rothfus, another Tea Party-supported Republican who has
championed tying government funding to delaying the health law.  Still, some of those preparing to face voters next year
concede there are risks to that strategy.  Right Flank  Like many Republicans running for re-election,  Senator
Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina  is finding that his major
liability stems from his right flank, not from the potential for
a general-election fight with a Democrat.  “In the short term, we’ll probably take a hit for the
shutdown,” said Graham, who is facing a crowded Republican
primary field in his run for a third term. “But in the long
term, Obamacare is going to be a liability in 2014” for
Democrats.  If it turns out to be a success, Graham said, Republicans
could pay a political price. “We won’t get punished for trying
to fight the good fight against a bad idea; if it turns out to
be a good idea, then we’ll be in trouble,” he said.  Democrats agree the health-care measure could prove a
liability in their re-election battles and the shutdown fight
has given Republicans opportunities to force difficult votes.  ‘All or Nothing’  Senator  Mark Begich , an  Alaska  Democrat, said he wants to
fix five or six different aspects of the law to make it more
effective. The Republicans’ tactics have instead produced a
series of “all-or-nothing” propositions that have forced him
to vote against things he supports -- such as repealing a
medical-device tax -- because he doesn’t want to tie them to
funding the government.  “Do I worry about what these guys are doing? They’ve
already spent a half a million dollars in the last four weeks in
Alaska, which is a lot of money, a lot of TV,” Begich said.
“It’s heat, no question.”  Still, he said, today’s tactics tarnish Republicans without
substantially changing the dynamics of his race.  “I already voted for the Affordable Care Act, so it’s like
somehow magically that vanishes?” Begich said. “I tell my
constituents, ‘I’m going to tell you what’s in the bill and how
you can benefit from it and tell you where we’re working to fix
it, but if you want to go into this for-or-against, that
battle’s over.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  