-- Rio Tinto Said to Near Sale of Australian Coal Mine to Linc
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-10-02T09:08:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/rio-tinto-said-to-near-sale-of-australian-coal-mine-to-linc.html
Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-largest mining company, is close to selling its Blair Athol coal
mine in  Australia  to  Linc Energy Ltd. (LNC) , according to two people
with knowledge of the matter.  Talks are at an advanced stage and an agreement may be
announced as soon as tomorrow, said the people, asking not to be
identified as the details are confidential. The mine in
Queensland state’s Bowen Basin has been shuttered since November
after prices for thermal coal slumped.  Rio Tinto, based in  London , is seeking to dispose of
additional mining operations after selling more than 20 assets
for $12 billion to help cut debt and focus on more profitable
operations. The company in July agreed to sell its Northparkes
copper mine in Australia to China Molybdenum Co. for $820
million.  While Rio has sold $1.9 billion of assets this year, it
also abandoned the sale of an Australian aluminum business and
its diamonds unit after failing to find buyers. Australian coal
prices have fallen 7 percent from a year ago to $78.30 a ton as
of Sept. 27, according to data from IHS McCloskey.  Linc, which is studying a gas-to-liquids venture in  Russia 
with billionaire Roman Abramovich, said today it plans to raise
money selling shares in a move to  Singapore ’s stock exchange.
The Brisbane-based company asked for its shares to be halted
pending a coal acquisition.  The Wall Street Journal reported earlier today that Rio was
in talks to sell the mine to Linc. Spokesmen for Rio and Linc
declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  