-- Rio Replacing Train Drivers Paid Like U.S. Surgeons
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-10-03T05:53:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/rio-replacing-train-drivers-paid-like-u-s-surgeons.html
Train drivers employed by Rio Tinto
Group to haul iron ore across  Australia ’s outback make about the
same money as surgeons in the U.S. It’s little wonder the mining
company will replace them with robot locomotives.  The 400-plus workers in the remote Pilbara region who earn
about A$240,000 ($224,000) a year probably are the highest-paid
train drivers in the world, according to U.K.-based transport
historian Christian Wolmar. Australia’s decade-long mining boom
has sucked up skilled workers, raising wages for engineers to
drivers at Rio, the second-largest exporter of the mineral, and
its closest competitors,  Vale SA (VALE)  and BHP Billiton Ltd.  The three companies that control about 59 percent of the
$145 billion-a-year global iron ore trade are automating to
bolster  margins  and squeeze out extra capacity as they boost
supply to a record to feed steel mills in  China , the biggest
buyer. The push by  Rio (RIO) , which aims to move about 290 million
metric tons on its rail network by next year, is expected to be
the biggest driver for cost cuts in its iron ore unit after
currency swings, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  “All producers are chasing better margins and stronger
returns,” said Chris Drew, an analyst in Sydney with Royal Bank
of  Canada . “Rio is ahead of the competition in terms of
automation of trucks and trains,” Drew said in an interview
after touring its ore operations in the mostly arid Pilbara,
home to Western Australia’s biggest deposits for export.  Seaborne Glut  The pace of automation is picking up as the seaborne market
is poised for at least four years of gluts. The price of ore,
which rose as much as eightfold in the past decade as China
added $6.8 trillion to its gross domestic product, will drop to
$80 a ton in 2015, according to a Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
forecast. It closed yesterday at $131.40 a ton.  Rio, which last year approved spending of $7.2 billion to
expand the iron ore operations, is aiming to have the world’s
first, fully automated, long-distance and heavy-haul rail system
operating in 2015. Its automated rail will have 1,500 kilometers
(930 miles) of track, 10,000 wagons and individual train sets
2.3 kilometers long, according to Credit Suisse Group AG. The
company is spending $518 million on the program that was
announced last year.  “You need to have quite a significant amount of scale” in
fleet and volumes to benefit from automation technology, said
 Evy Hambro , manager of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s $7.7 billion World
Mining Fund.  Regulators in Canada and the U.S. are reviewing rules for
transporting hazardous materials after a runaway train carrying
crude oil derailed and exploded on July 6 in Lac-Megantic,
 Quebec , killing 47 people and incinerating 30 buildings. The
train was operated by a single engineer, who parked the train
for the night and left it unattended.  Laser Detectors  Rio’s rail, port and truck movements are all watched over
from a control center in the Western Australia state capital of
Perth, 1,500 kilometers to the southeast, that has about 250
controllers working three shifts a day. The rail automation is
part of the company’s push to use technology to improve
productivity and safety and wring out extra capacity from
existing assets, Simon Prebble, general manager for Rio’s
automated trains project, said in an interview yesterday.  The trains have on-board systems that check speed, signals
and operate the brake, Prebble said. Rio has installed a new
radio-based network to communicate with the trains as well as
close-circuit television at every public level crossing, he
said. “We also have an obstruction detection system which uses
laser scanners to continually look for any obstructions.”  Earnings Driver  The competitiveness of some iron ore mines in the Pilbara
as well as some future projects is set to improve with the
adoption of the new technologies on trucks and trains,
Australia’s Bureau of Resources and Energy Economics said
yesterday in a report.  Iron ore  will remain the dominant earnings driver for  BHP (BHP) 
and Rio as rising production offsets falling prices, Citigroup
Inc. said in a Sept. 13 report. The mineral accounted for 78
percent of Rio’s earnings before interest, depreciation and
amortization last year, and 92 percent for Vale, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. BHP had 43 percent Ebitda from iron
ore in fiscal 2013, the data show.  “It’s going to provide a healthy return on investment for
Rio,” Adrian Wood, a Sydney-based analyst with Macquarie Group
Ltd., said by phone. “They’re trying to squeeze out those extra
few tons a year by automating it.”  Rio’s Ebitda margin per ton of ore is forecast to drop 43
percent to $43.99 in 2015 from $70.01 in 2013, with BHP’s set to
fall 42 percent to $40.68 and Vale by 61 percent to $23.11,
according to Goldman Sachs.  Shave Costs  Rio also plans to automate about 40 percent of its Pilbara
truck fleet by 2016. The goal is to  reduce costs  to $15.60 a ton
by 2020, from $23.10 a ton in the first half of this year, Paul Young, a Sydney-based analyst with Deutsche Bank said in a
report after touring operations last month, citing Rio data.
Automation is set to help shave $1.90 a ton off costs and boost
output by 20 million tons, or 5 percent, he said.  Each train driver earns about A$240,000 a year, according
to Credit Suisse. Surgeons based in the U.S. earned a mean
annual wage of $230,540 last year, according to data from the
Bureau of Labor Statistics.  New York  state lawyers on average
earned $151,000, according to the data. Rio spokesman Bruce Tobin declined to comment on train drivers’ salaries and the
potential cost savings from the company’s automation drive.  “The position we’ve taken is that you’re never going to
win the argument against technology,” said Gary Wood, Western
Australia district secretary for the Construction, Forestry,
Mining and Energy Union, which covers the drivers. “We’re going
to work to be involved the protection of as many jobs as
possible as a result of any changes in technology.”  Ironing Out Bugs  Rio may be able to cut its wage bill for train drivers by
about A$100 million annually should it reduce train driver
numbers by 400, CIMB Australia Ltd. analyst Michael Evans said
last month in a report following the tour. Total net operating
costs for all units in 2012 were $37.5 billion.  The automation is a long-term project that won’t produce
quick results, said  Tim Schroeders , portfolio manager at Pengana
Capital Ltd. in  Melbourne .  “The type of work does lend itself to automation but
ironing out the bugs and integrating the driver-operated
machinery, understanding scheduling, will take some time,”
Schroeders said in a phone interview. “Realistically, it’s not
going to change the mining business significantly in the next
three to five years.”  The miners, which began driving down costs last year after
the 10-year China-led commodity price boom  began to peak , are
also seeking to cut the number of truck drivers, with Rio’s
biggest iron ore mine now almost entirely operated by driverless
trucks, according to CIMB.  Conveyor Belts  Vale is building the $20 billion Serra Sul project and will
be the first to fully replace in-mine trucks with conveyor belts
23 miles long and building a second railway through the Amazon
to cut costs, according to the Rio de Janeiro-based company.
BHP, the world’s biggest miner, started a trial of 12 driverless
trucks at its Jimblebar iron ore mine this year and opened its
own remote operation center in Perth in July.  “Once Rio has cracked it, I wouldn’t expect BHP to be that
far behind,” Paul Phillips, a Melbourne-based fund manager with
Perennial Growth Management Pty that holds BHP shares. “Vale
has slightly different issues in that they have a multi-user
railway, to try and automate that for a single-user iron ore
operation, it gets much harder because you have the interaction
with the other players.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  