-- Rosengren Says Budget Conflict Meant Forgoing QE Taper
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-10-02T21:58:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/rosengren-says-budget-conflict-warranted-forgoing-fed-qe-taper.html
(Corrects figure on  budget deficit  as a percentage of GDP
in 16th paragraph.)  Federal  Reserve Bank  of Boston
President  Eric Rosengren , a consistent backer of record stimulus
who votes on policy this year, said the Fed refrained from
tapering its bond purchases last month because growth was lower
than forecast and fiscal policy posed a risk to the outlook.  “Had U.S. fiscal matters not been so problematic, and
incoming data on real GDP and employment stronger, it may well
have been appropriate to take some action in September,”
Rosengren said today in a speech in Burlington,  Vermont ,
referring to gross domestic product. “Unfortunately, those were
not the facts we faced” at a policy meeting on Sept. 17-18.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  surprised investors last
month by maintaining its $85 billion monthly pace of bond
purchases. The Fed kept stimulus in place as Congress debates
how to resolve the first government shutdown in 17 years and
whether to raise the nation’s debt limit.  Chief executive officers at companies ranging from
 Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  to  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  said a
prolonged government suspension may jeopardize the expansion.  “If this lingers for a while, it endangers the economic
recovery at best,” JetBlue CEO Dave Barger said in an
interview. “If this percolates into the psyche of business and
everybody starts to back off travel spending and it can trickle
down to others. This is really serious.”  Fiscal Impasse  Berger’s comments echoed remarks by  David Cote , chief
executive of Honeywell, the  Morris Township , New Jersey-based
manufacturer, who said Sept. 30 that a fiscal impasse may plunge
the world’s largest economy into a recession.  “Everyone will get more conservative and pull back on
hiring and investing,” Cote, who served on President  Barack
Obama ’s bipartisan National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility
and Reform, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s
 Trish Regan .  Federal budget  cuts have already harmed the economy, and
additional reductions may cause more damage, Rosengren said.  “While some of the effects of fiscal austerity will
eventually ebb, to date fiscal austerity is one reason we have
yet to see growth much faster than 2 percent,” Rosengren said
to the Lake Champlain Regional Chamber of Commerce.  “Unfortunately, this remains an area of significant
uncertainty, given debates in Congress” on funding the
government past the Sept. 30 end of the fiscal year “and
potentially allowing the country to default on its debt,” he
said. “The uncertainties, not to mention the outcomes
themselves, threaten to have a collateral impact on the rest of
the economy.”  High-Level Talks  Obama summoned the top four leaders of Congress to the
White House for the first high-level talks on reopening the
government.  Jay Carney , the White House press secretary, said
the bipartisan Oval Office meeting at 5:30 p.m. wouldn’t be a
negotiation.  The first partial government closing since 1996, which
began yesterday, may delay the time when policy makers can make
a full assessment of economic performance as they debate whether
to dial down bond purchases, Rosengren said in response to an
audience question.  The suspension “pushes further into the future the time we
can get a real assessment of where the economy is,” he said.
“It is going to be much harder to get a gauge of what’s
happening in the economy if we don’t have” government
statistics produced by agencies that are closed.  A partial government shutdown lasting a week would probably
shave 0.1 percentage point from economic growth, according to
the median estimate of 40 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Offices Closed  The closing has furloughed almost 800,000 employees as
offices, parks and museums closed. It may cost the U.S. at least
$300 million per day in lost output at first, according to  IHS
Inc. (IHS) , which estimates annualized growth in the fourth quarter
will be reduced 0.16 percentage point in a week-long closing.  The shutdown comes as U.S. budget deficits have been
shrinking. The deficit in June was 4.2 percent of GDP, down from
10.1 percent in February 2010 and the narrowest since November
2008, when Obama was elected to his first term, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg from the Treasury Department and the
 Bureau of Economic Analysis .  Congress and the White House must also agree on raising the
country’s $16.7 trillion debt ceiling. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said the U.S. has begun final extraordinary measures
intended to avoid breaching the limit, which will be exhausted
no later than Oct. 17.  Rosengren said in an interview with the Fox Business
Network that the Fed should “keep all options on the table,”
adding that fiscal policy has been more disruptive than
anticipated.  Stocks Decline  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1 percent to
1,693.87 in  New York , while the yield on the 10-year Treasury
note declined 0.03 percentage point to 2.62 percent.  Rosengren, 56, said he “strongly and unequivocally”
supported the Fed’s decision not to taper asset buying. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey before the FOMC meeting
was for a $5 billion reduction in purchases.  “Fed actions are not determined by Wall Street’s
expectations of what we might or should do,” Rosengren said.
“Rather, our policies need to be consistent with achieving key
goals like supporting Main Street’s more rapid return to full
employment” and averting too-low inflation.  Rosengren supported sustaining bond purchases because long-term  interest rates  had risen too much, threatening to impair
borrowing for the car and home purchases that have fueled growth
this year, he said.  Unexpected Slump  The Fed may remove stimulus if the economy quickens, or add
“more accommodation than is currently anticipated” if the
economy unexpectedly slumps.  “If the economy evolves as expected, policy should in my
view include only a very slow removal of accommodation over the
next several years,” he said. “And that should only occur when
the data ratify our forecast for an improvement in real GDP and
employment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  