-- Rubber Reaches 7-Week Low as U.S. Auto Data Raise Demand Concern
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2013-10-02T07:33:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/rubber-reaches-7-week-low-as-u-s-auto-data-raise-demand-concern.html
Rubber extended losses for a fourth
day to the lowest level in seven weeks after data showed U.S.
auto sales fell for the first time in 27 months, raising concern
that demand may weaken for the commodity used in tires.  The contract for March delivery on the  Tokyo  Commodity
Exchange lost 1.7 percent to 256.5 yen a kilogram ($2,635 a
metric ton), the lowest settlement since Aug. 8. The drop
expanded this year’s losses to 15 percent for a most-active
contract.  U.S. deliveries of new cars and light trucks slid to 1.14
million last month, according to researcher Autodata Corp., in
line with the average of 10 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.
Japanese carmakers from Toyota Motor Corp. to Honda Motor Co.
reported sales declines with tight supplies of some models after
August’s surge and fewer weekend selling days.  “Concerns grew that sales may weaken further as the U.S.
government’s shutdown may curb consumption,” said  Kazuhiko Saito , an analyst at broker Fujitomi Co. in Tokyo.  The Japanese currency traded at 97.41, near a one-month
high against the dollar, cutting the appeal of yen-denominated
contracts, after Congress’ inability to pass a budget caused the
partial closure of government services. A shutdown or failure to
raise the debt ceiling could have very serious consequences for
the economy, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last
month.  Thai rubber  free-on-board fell for a sixth day today,
losing 1 percent to 78.75 baht ($2.51) a kilogram, according to
the Rubber Research Institute of  Thailand . Markets in  China  are
closed through Oct. 7 for National Day holidays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  