-- FIFA Prepares to Discuss Moving Qatar Soccer World Cup to Winter
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-10-04T00:40:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/rummenigge-says-fifa-can-t-ignore-club-concerns-over-qatar-shift.html
FIFA executives are preparing to
discuss today whether to move the 2022 World Cup in Qatar to the
winter to avoid the summer heat in the emirate.  The executives will consider the option at a meeting in
Zurich, three years after they voted for Qatar to become the
first Arab host of the  soccer tournament . While FIFA will
confirm that the event will be held in the country, the body
will set up a panel to discuss the schedule, the British
Broadcasting Corp. said, citing people close to the board.  Qatar plans to spend more than $200 billion on
infrastructure, including a rail and metro network and $9
billion on stadiums. A date change could set up conflict with
the England’s Premier League and other European championships,
forcing them to rearrange their schedules. Broadcasters,
including Fox Sports in the U.S., have complained about
rescheduling because games might conflict with other sports,
such as the  National Football League .  Karl-Heinz Rummenigge, the head of a group representing
 Europe ’s top soccer clubs, said FIFA must include teams and
players in any decision. He said 75 percent of national team
players at the World Cup are under contract with European clubs.  “We have to be sitting at the table when it comes to a
final decision,” he said.  FIFA executives picked Qatar as host ahead of  Australia ,
 Japan  and  South Korea  and the U.S., even after an evaluation
report by the soccer authority’s own officials that said it was
a “potential health risk” for players and fans by playing
matches there in June and July.  50 Degrees  Qatar organizers say it could mitigate temperatures as high
as 50 degrees Centigrade (122 degrees Fahrenheit) by installing
air conditioning systems in stadiums, although it is open to
changing the dates.  “If the international football community reaches a
consensus to move the event to an alternate date, we are able to
accommodate that change,” the Qatar 2022 Supreme Committee said
in a statement. “This would not affect our planning and
preparation. Our commitment to cooling technologies will
continue, for without it certain parts of the world will be
denied the right to host such events.”  Soccer officials such as English Premier League Chief
Executive Officer  Richard Scudamore  and U.S. Soccer President
 Sunil Gulati  said moving the World Cup could disrupt as many as
four domestic seasons.  U.S. Soccer’s Gulati, who sits on FIFA’s executive
committee, said the sport’s governing body should have held more
discussions about the Qatari weather before granting hosting
rights.  Fox agreed to pay a record $425 million for U.S. broadcast
rights to the World Cups in 2018 and 2022, and is opposed to
moving the date. The price is more than four times what current
rights holder ESPN paid for the 2010 World Cup in  South Africa 
and next year’s edition in  Brazil .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Zurich at  at  aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  