-- Russia Charges Greenpeace Activists With Piracy Over Protest
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-10-02T15:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/russia-charges-briton-brazilian-with-piracy-greenpeace-says.html
Russia  charged 14 Greenpeace
activists with piracy over the boarding of an oil platform to
protest Arctic drilling in what the group described as its worst
crisis since the 1985 bombing of the Rainbow Warrior.  The 14 campaigners, who include citizens of the U.K., U.S.,
 Netherlands ,  Brazil ,  Argentina ,  Finland  and Russia, are among 30
Greenpeace activists who were detained last month over the
incident, the organization’s press service said in a text
message today. They’re under investigation for piracy, a charge
that carries a maximum prison sentence of 15 years.  “This is now the most serious threat to Greenpeace’s
peaceful environmental activism since agents of the French
secret service bombed the Rainbow Warrior” during an attempted
protest over  France ’s nuclear weapons testing in the Pacific,
the organization’s executive director, Kumi Naidoo, said by e-mail. The 30 activists “could now face the prospect of long
periods in a Russian jail.”  Investigators opened a criminal case last week against the
campaigners from 18 countries for piracy and remanded them in
custody for two months in the port city of Murmansk. The
Investigative Committee will make an announcement once charges
are filed against all 30 activists, according to the office of
the law-enforcement agency’s spokesman,  Vladimir Markin .  Gazprom Rig  Greenpeace protesters scaled an  OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  rig in the
Pechora Sea on Sept. 18. The state-owned company has accused the
environmental organization of endangering the lives of workers
on the rig who were underwater at the time of the protest.  Russia’s Coast Guard boarded Greenpeace’s Arctic Sunrise
ship in international waters on Sept. 19, a day after two
protesters scaled the rig, and towed the vessel to Murmansk.
Gazprom plans to become the first Russian company to start
producing oil in Arctic waters at the Prirazlomnoye deposit as
soon as this year. Greenpeace activists scaled the same drilling
platform in 2012.  Protesters today occupied gasoline stations in  Germany 
operated by Gazprom, according to the  Twitter Inc.  account of
Grennpeace’s Russian branch. The group staged demonstrations
last week outside Russian diplomatic missions and offices of
Gazprom in 38 locations in 30 countries, including the U.S.,
Brazil, France and the U.K.  The detained activists include citizens of the U.S.,
Finland, Argentina, Switzerland, the U.K., Australia, Brazil,
Canada, Denmark, the Netherlands,  New Zealand , Ukraine, Russia,
France, Italy, Turkey, Poland and Sweden, according to
Greenpeace.  ‘Unlawful Acts’  Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev today called for tougher
penalties for illegal incursions into oil and gas facilities.  “Concern for the environment shouldn’t lead to unlawful
acts,” he said at a meeting in the Astrakhan region.  President  Vladimir Putin  said Sept. 25 that while the
Greenpeace campaigners “clearly” aren’t pirates, they violated
international law by trying to seize the platform.  The Russian leader has come under increasing criticism in
Europe and the U.S for a crackdown on civil society since he won
a third Kremlin term last year.  The captain of the Arctic Sunrise, American Peter Wilcox,
was in charge of Greenpeace’s Rainbow Warrior in 1985, when
agents from France’s DGSE intelligence service planted a bomb on
the ship in the port of Auckland to prevent it from sailing
toward a nuclear-testing site. A photographer for the
environmental organization died in the explosion that sank the
vessel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  