-- S&P Concerned Global Consensus Fraying on Banks’ Capital
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2013-10-02T12:21:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/s-p-concerned-global-consensus-fraying-on-banks-capital.html
Standard & Poor’s said it sees
“worrisome cracks” in a global push to strengthen banks’
capital with the world’s largest lenders unlikely to make big
improvements.  “Events in the past six months illustrate that the
consensus on bank capitalization is starting to fray,” the
ratings company said in a report today. “Some national
regulators are satisfied with Basel III targets, and believe
that even tighter bank capitalization could backfire and cause
economic damage. Others believe that banks can become more
active in financing the economy once they are healthy enough to
regain full access to the wholesale funding markets.”  While more than half of the banks S&P rates had increased
capital ratios by the end of 2012 from a year earlier, the
improvement was heavily influenced by credit growth and
earnings. Lenders remained reluctant to raise equity, the
ratings company said, citing its latest survey of the world’s
top 100 lenders. The quality of capital may also decline as
regulators allow banks to raise “weaker” hybrid capital to
fulfill requirements, it said.  “In view of these worrisome cracks in the Basel III
consensus, we expect differences about capital standards and
stances to widen over the coming quarters,” Arnaud de Toytot,
an S&P analyst, said in the statement. “This is likely to make
capital a greater source of differentiation for our ratings on
banks than it has been over the past few years.”  Missing Deadline  Banks have been forced by global regulators to meet
stricter rules under Basel III, a set of measures designed to
improve risk management and regulation of the industry. Banks
can plug gaps in capital by retaining earnings, issuing more
securities eligible to count as capital or by reducing their
assets weighted for risk.  Both the European Union and the U.S. missed a January 2013
deadline to begin phasing in the Basel standards on capital, and
have said they will start the process next year. The U.S., U.K.,
 Sweden  and Switzerland are among nations that have promised to
set tougher rules for their banks than required by Basel.  The largest global banks cut the shortfall in the reserves
they’ll need to meet Basel capital rules by 82.9 billion euros
($112 billion) in the second half of 2012, leaving a gap of 115
billion euros, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision said
last month. The biggest European lenders accounted for 70.4
billion euros of the capital shortfall at the end of last year
identified by the Basel committee, according to data published
by the European Banking Authority.  ‘Troubled Markets’  S&P analyzed banks’ capital strength according to its own
risk adjustments, which seek to iron out inconsistencies in how
national regulators treat reserves and risks.  About 40 percent of the banks examined had risk-adjusted
capital ratios below 7 percent, which the rating company sees as
the minimum threshold for assessing capital as adequate, with
the lowest capital ratios concentrated in “troubled markets”
such as Spain and Ireland, S&P said. The number of banks with
ratios above 10 percent has fallen to six at the end of 2012
from 10 at the end of 2010, it added.  The rating company said it expects about 13 percent of the
top 100 banks to have a higher risk-adjusted capital ratio for
the current and subsequent years than at the end of 2012. A
growing number of banks indicated last year that they were
compliant with the core equity requirements under Basel III or
will be by year-end 2013, leading to less pressure on lenders to
accumulate more capital, S&P said.  Debt Crisis  “Any assessment of capital should also adequately
recognize and measure the risk,” S&P said. “There are growing
concerns in the market that some banks -- especially in some
European countries -- have been slow to recognize nonperforming
loans, revalue collateral, and book impairments to protect
capital and profitability by spreading losses over an extended
period.”  In a separate report, S&P said today that it would be
premature to assume that the euro region’s crisis is nearing an
end. In both the public and private sectors, most of the
deleveraging effort still lies ahead, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  