-- SAC Says Three London Portfolio Managers Left Hedge Fund
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   C h r i s   L a r s o n
-- 2013-10-02T10:42:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/sac-says-three-london-portfolio-managers-left-hedge-fund.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP, the $14
billion hedge-fund firm founded by Steven A. Cohen, said three
portfolio managers in London left last month.  Woei Chan, Alidod Shirinbekov and Paul Crouch departed on
Sept. 26, according to filings at the U.K.’s Companies House.
The three quant traders, who bought and sold stocks based on
signals from computer models, were among 18 partners at SAC
Global Investors LLP, the hedge-fund firm’s London unit, at the
end of 2012, filings show.  The traders couldn’t be located through U.K. directory
assistance and they didn’t reply to e-mails sent through
LinkedIn. E-mails to the traders’ SAC accounts were returned
automatically. A spokesman for  Stamford , Connecticut-based SAC
declined to comment on the departures.  The company is reviewing how many traders it needs as it
prepares to shrink after a U.S. grand jury indicted the 21-year-old firm in July over allegations of insider trading, according
to a person with knowledge of the matter. The firm expects
assets to shrink by the start of 2014 to $9 billion, almost all
of which will be Cohen and his employees’ personal wealth. That
will force the firm to reduce staff to ensure its most
profitable traders continue overseeing as much money as
possible, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the information is private.  BlueCrest Capital Management LLP, a $35 billion hedge-fund
firm that has been expanding into equities, has hired
Shirinbekov, another person with knowledge of the matter said.
Ed Orlebar, a spokesman for London-based BlueCrest, declined to
comment on Shirinbekov.  SAC Founder  SAC started 2013 with 20 quant investing teams, while the
hedge-fund firm has about 125 teams that buy and sell stocks
based on equity analysis. Earlier this year, the firm had about
400 employees focused on investing in total, according to an
April 19 filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The U.S. said in its July 25 indictment that SAC engaged in
an unprecedented insider-trading scheme that lasted more than a
decade. Regulators also accused Cohen of failing to supervise
two senior employees.  At the time of the indictment, SAC said it has never
encouraged, promoted or tolerated insider trading and takes its
compliance obligations seriously.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in  London  at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Larson in London at 
 clarson22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  