-- Samaras Cautions Europeans About Stalling on Greek Debt
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   B e n   S c h e n k e l
-- 2013-10-02T00:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/samaras-cautions-europeans-against-procrastinating-on-greek-debt.html
Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras
said the European nations that are financing  Greece ’s bailout
should not wait too long before helping the country address its
 debt burden .  Citing a pledge made in November by euro-area nations to
consider further assistance to lower Greece’s debt, Samaras said
his country is on track to meet the main condition, an annual
budget surplus before interest payments, or primary surplus.  “If Greece indeed does manage to have primary surplus,
then the European Union should help and will help Greece,”
Samaras said yesterday at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics in Washington. “What is important to me
is not to procrastinate too much for a solution.”  Greece is in the sixth year of a recession deepened by
spending cuts and tax increases linked to a 240 billion-euro
($325 billion) bailout from the euro area and the International
Monetary Fund, which now hold most of Greece’s debt after
investors took part in the biggest debt restructuring in history
last year.  Europe’s Commitment  The Washington-based IMF staff has said Europe’s commitment
to provide further debt relief may require agreeing to measures
as early as 2014-2015.  “As to how we’re going to lower the debt, that’s another
issue,” Samaras said yesterday when asked if that would come in
the form of longer maturities and lower interest rates, or of a
write down.  Samaras met earlier in the day with IMF Managing Director
Christine Lagarde, calling the discussion “fruitful.” He also
met with the financial community, touting his country’s fiscal
progress which he said will lure investors and boost exports.  “We are not there yet, but the ship is turning around,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Schenkel in Washington at 
 bschenkel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  