-- SAP Ventures Raises $650 Million Fund as IPOs Increase
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-10-02T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/sap-ventures-raises-650-million-fund-as-ipos-increase.html
SAP Ventures , the startup-investing
unit of German software maker  SAP AG (SAP) , raised more than $650
million for its latest fund, bringing the total amount it
manages to $1.4 billion.  SAP Ventures Fund II is almost $300 million bigger than the
previous one, which was established in 2011, the  Palo Alto ,
California-based unit said in a statement today. The group is
also establishing a business-development team of 10 people to
seek out deals across the U.S., Europe and Asia.  As business-focused startups gain bigger valuations on the
private and public markets, venture firms are raising more money
to invest in companies focused on cloud computing, mobile
software and technology that boosts data-center speed. The
emerging companies are aiming to displace some of the biggest
technology vendors, including SAP, said Nino Marakovic, chief
executive officer of SAP Ventures.  “We’re now seeing the creation of the next set of $10
billion, $20 billion, $50 billion companies,” Marakovic said in
an interview. “We’ll be investing all the time in companies
that step on SAP’s toes.”  SAP, the largest maker of business-management software,
spun off SAP Ventures as an independent entity in 2011. The
company has committed $1 billion to back startups and $400
million more to invest in other funds. About 50 percent to 60
percent of startups backed by SAP Ventures end up with some
relationship to SAP, whether as a supplier, sales partner or
through an acquisition, Marakovic said.  Among the companies that the venture group has invested in,
12 have been purchased or gone public this year, Marakovic said.
The initial public offerings include  Violin Memory Inc. (VMEM) ,  Tremor
Video Inc. (TRMR)  and  Marin Software Inc. (MRIN)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  