-- Saudis See Oldest Ally on Wrong Track as U.S. Delays Syria Raids
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-10-02T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/saudis-see-oldest-ally-on-wrong-track-as-u-s-delays-syria-raids.html
Saudi Arabia, one of the oldest U.S.
allies in the  Middle East , is increasingly uncomfortable with
the policies President  Barack Obama  is pursuing there.  At functions in  Riyadh  and on the local editorial pages,
it’s becoming common to hear criticism of the U.S. The decision
to back away from strikes against  Syria  was widely condemned by
Saudis, who have backed the rebels fighting to oust Bashar al-Assad’s government and pushed for military action in their
support.  Signs of a U.S. thaw with  Iran , Saudi Arabia’s main
regional rival, have heightened the concern in the world’s
biggest oil exporter. One result may be that the Saudis, who
have worked with the U.S. to build up the Syrian political
opposition, may start acting independently of their ally, said
 Mustafa Alani , an analyst at the Gulf Research Center in Geneva.  Saudi leaders from now on will “look at their own
interests and act accordingly, whether the U.S. likes it or
not,” Alani said. “The Saudis have more or less respected the
U.S. veto for the past two years for supplying arms to the
Syrian rebels. I don’t think this will happen any more.”  The differences over Middle East policies may not shift the
bedrock of business ties on which the Saudi royals built a U.S.
alliance with roots in World War II, when King Abdul-Aziz Al
Saud and U.S. President  Franklin D. Roosevelt  met aboard the USS
Quincy.  ‘Solid Footing’  Since the oil embargo of the mid-1970s, most disagreements
between the countries haven’t disrupted trade. Saudi Arabia has
opposed U.S. support for  Israel , and backed rulers seeking to
repress protests in  Egypt  and Bahrain where the U.S. called for
dialogue. The relationship also faltered after the Sept. 11
attacks, in which Saudi citizens were involved.  Through all those crises, the relationship based on oil and
security has largely endured. Trade jumped 21 percent to a
record $77.3 billion last year, making the desert kingdom the
U.S.’s eighth-biggest partner, ahead of Brazil and  France . San
Francisco-based Bechtel Group Inc. got a $9.4 billion contract
to build a new metro in Riyadh, and  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  signed
 an accord  last year to develop Saudi Arabia’s national science
agency.  Last month 1,100 businessmen and officials from both
countries met in Los Angeles to expand commercial ties. “The
main takeaway was that the U.S.-Saudi relationship is on a solid
footing,” said John Sfakianakis, chief investment strategist at
Riyadh-based investment company MASIC, who was at that forum.
“The U.S. brought their expected big guns, and the Saudis
brought their fair share.”  ‘More Killing’  There’s less harmony when it comes to regional diplomacy,
though. Warning against the chemical weapons accord backed by
the U.S. and  Russia , Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal said Assad’s government may use it as an opportunity “to
impose more killing and to torture its people.”  The Saudi minister  pressed  for a United Nations Security
Council resolution that would include a mechanism for
enforcement if Syria failed to disarm. He didn’t get it. The
resolution approved on Sept. 28 didn’t spell out immediate
consequences for non-compliance, nor did it assign blame for the
Aug. 21 chemical attack near Damascus that killed hundreds.  As a result of such decisions, “Saudis think that the
Americans don’t care about what is happening” in Syria, Khalid al-Dakhil, a political science professor at King Saud University
in Riyadh, said in a phone interview on Sept. 25. “The
perceptions in  Saudi Arabia  are very negative about America’s
Syrian policy.”  Bloody Flags  A  cartoon  in Saudi-owned Asharq Al-Awsat newspaper on Sept.
26 showed U.S., French and Iranian figures dipping into a blood-soaked flag of the Syrian Free Army, the main rebel military
unit, and using it to color in their own flags.  More than 100,000 people have been killed in the conflict
in Syria, and about 2 million Syrians have registered as
refugees or are pending registration, the  UN estimated  in July.  For Saudi Arabia, the conflict has developed into a proxy
war with Shiite-majority Iran, Assad’s ally, part of a broader
sectarian conflict between the Persian Gulf’s main powers for
sway over a region that produces a third of the world’s oil.  Saudi  King Abdullah  urged the U.S. to attack Iran, “cut
off the head of the snake” and halt its nuclear program, U.S.
diplomats reported in cables released by Wikileaks.  Obama has favored sanctions and diplomacy with Iran, as
with Syria, squeezing the country’s oil output and pushing for
curbs on its nuclear program. Last week he spoke by phone to his
Iranian counterpart Hassan Rouhani, the first such conversation
since the Islamic republic’s creation in 1979.  “Saudi foreign policy is becoming more bellicose and more
extroverted,” while the opposite is happening in the U.S.,  Paul Sullivan , a Middle East specialist at  Georgetown University  in
 Washington , said in response to e-mailed questions. “U.S.-Saudi
relations remain strong, but the Saudis seem increasingly wary
by how much sway domestic politics has on U.S. policies on Iran
and Syria.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  