-- Scene Last Night: Hedge Funders, Math Museum, Salkin Book
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n   a n d   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2013-10-02T16:28:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/scene-last-night-hedge-funders-math-museum-salkin-book.html
At the first gala for the Museum of
Mathematics, honoree Jim Simons puffed from an electronic
cigarette as guests helped build a hyperbolic paraboloid.  “I always loved mathematics,” Simons, founder of
Renaissance Technologies LLC, said last night, “I make my
living from it.”  The museum opened last year with interactive exhibitions
aim to teach that math is fun with wide applications.  “Lots of kids never get exposure to math other than some
kind of boring work sheet,” said John Overdeck, co-chairman of
Two Sigma Investments and a museum board member. “Our goal is
to get them turned on to math at an early age.”  Simons was an early donor, courted by his former algorithms
analyst Glen Whitney, who left Renaissance Technologies to found
the museum.  As guests sat down at tables named for algebraic surfaces,
Whitney hovered over the hyperbolic paraboloid. Some of the LED
tubes lighting up the structure needed to be rearranged, he
decided.  “I’m a minutia kind of guy,” Whitney said.  His efforts were appreciated.  “This is really creative and thoughtful,” said Benjamin
Ngan, a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. investment manager.  The event raised more than $1 million.  Loft Brisket  Mighty Quinn’s pit master, Hugh Mangum, spent last night
serving brisket sandwiches in a Flatiron loft kitchen at the
party for Allen Salkin’s book “From Scratch: Inside the Food
Network.”  Salkin met Mangum on the set of the show “Cook Like an
Iron Chef.” Mangum was working as Michael Symon’s sous chef on
the show, while Salkin was researching his book.  Mangum later went on the Food Network as a contestant on
“Chopped,” where he won with one of the most difficult baskets
of ingredients in the show’s history.  “It was nose to tail of a pig, the heart, liver, kidneys.
It was hard core,” Mangum said.  He did it on no sleep, too. “I messed up the day of the
call, and I had worked the overnight shift on the smoker. All I
could think was, ‘I don’t want to go in Round One,’” Mangum
said.  Chef Actor  “It’s rare you meet a true chef-actor,” Salkin said.
“Usually the Food Network has to turn chefs into actors. Hugh
did that on his own.”  As for Mighty Quinn’s being named  New York ’s best new
restaurant by the Zagat survey yesterday:  “People obviously focused on the food -- we don’t have a
marble table or anything like that,” said Micha Magid, an owner
of the restaurant and former hedge funder.  (Amanda Gordon and Patrick Cole are writers for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are their own.)  To contact the writers on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon;
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 