-- Schaeuble Urges Euro-Area Patience in Reunification Comparison
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-10-02T17:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/schaeuble-urges-euro-area-patience-in-reunification-comparison.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  likened the euro area’s recovery from the debt crisis
to rebuilding eastern  Germany  after Communism fell, saying
patience is needed.  “Impatience is understandable, but it’s not appropriate in
light of the size of the task,” Schaeuble said today in Paris
in his first public speech since  Chancellor Angela Merkel  won
national elections on Sept. 22, according to excerpts e-mailed
in advance. “As during the time of reunification, we must move
forward confidently, step by step.”  Europe needs “deeper integration in an intelligent way,”
including changes in the European Union’s governing treaties,
and must be “strong and competitive” to compete in the global
economy, Schaeuble said. “Nothing can work in Europe” if
France and Germany don’t cooperate, he said.  Schaeuble’s comments at an event marking 23 years since
East and  West Germany  merged after the fall of the  Berlin Wall 
suggest continuity as Merkel sets about forming a third-term
government. Merkel’s second term was dominated by her “step-by-step” austerity-first response to the debt crisis that began in
late 2009 and led to bailouts for Greece, Ireland, Portugal,
Spain and Cyprus.  Merkel plans to attend the next EU summit in Brussels on
Oct. 24-25 even if she hasn’t forged a government. Her Christian
Democratic bloc fell short of an absolute majority in parliament
and plans to open exploratory talks with potential coalition
partners on Oct. 4.  Schaeuble, 71, grew up in southwestern Germany on the
French border and was West Germany’s negotiator with collapsing
East Germany and the four World War II occupying powers in the
talks that led to German reunification on Oct. 3, 1990. In his
speech at the German Embassy, he recalled working at a French-German military cemetery in  France  as a young man.  “It was very moving,” he said. “Your country has always
been present in my life, since early childhood.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  