-- SEC Data to Transform High-Speed Trading Debate, White Says
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-10-02T22:11:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/sec-to-transform-high-speed-trading-debate-with-data-white-says.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission plans to unveil a public website next week that will
allow it to publish data, research and analysis using the type
of robust market data exploited by high-frequency trading firms.  The site will share some of the agency’s research into
topics such as strategies that cancel a high percentage of
orders, which can give the appearance of false liquidity, SEC
Chairman Mary Jo White said today at a speech in  Washington . It
also will allow users to explore trading-activity patterns in
“easy-to-read charts and graphs,” she said.  The SEC’s effort is meant to use data-driven analysis to
determine if technology has given some sophisticated traders an
unfair advantage. The regulator has worked to improve its
understanding of market behavior after taking more than four
months to explain the May 2010 flash crash, when about $862
billion in U.S. equity value was wiped out in minutes before
share prices recovered.  “We expect this new tool to transform the debate on market
structure by focusing as never before on data, not anecdote,”
White said in prepared remarks for the Security Traders
Association’s market structure conference.  The SEC’s data-mining effort was boosted by its acquisition
of Midas, an acronym for Market Information Data Analytics
System. The agency acquired Midas last year from Red Bank, New
Jersey-based high-frequency trading firm and technology vendor
Tradeworx Inc.  More Complete  Midas provides the regulator with more complete data than
traders and researchers can see from the public price feeds
operated by  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  Midas
includes every order on exchanges, not just the best offers
reported to the public tape. It also gathers data on orders that
are modified, canceled or filled.  White said in April that the SEC needed to bring a “sense
of urgency” to answering whether high-frequency trading, dark
pools and the proliferation of complex order types harm retail
investors or create an uneven playing field.  Since then White has grappled with technology failures,
including the Aug. 22 malfunction of Nasdaq’s price feed that
caused it to call a three-hour trading halt in thousands of
stocks. White met with the chief executive officers of U.S.
stock exchanges on Sept. 12, asking them to provide ways to make
the price-data feeds more resilient.  “We must address these risks by striking the right balance
of reliability, functionality and cost,” White said today in
her speech.  Reconsider Assumptions  Data may enable the SEC to reconsider long-held assumptions
about exchanges and market rules, including the exchanges’ role
as regulators of their member brokers while competing with them
for trading business and data sales, White said. The exchanges’
business models and regulatory roles should be “fully evaluated
in light of the evolving market structure and trading
practices.”  “This evaluation should also assess how trading venues can
better balance their commercial incentives and regulatory
responsibilities,” White said. “For example, is there an
appropriate balance for exchanges in key areas, such as the
maintenance of critical market infrastructure?”  In a July 31 letter, the Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association asked White to review the self-regulatory
status that gives exchanges oversight of brokers, which also run
competing trading venues.  Conflicts ‘Abound’  “Conflicts of interest in this model abound and only
worsen as they are left unresolved,” Theodore R. Lazo,
associate general counsel at Sifma, said in the letter.  Nasdaq supports efforts to “tackle the complex market
structure issues our industry faces,” Chief Executive Officer
Robert Greifeld said in an e-mailed statement after the speech.  White said data also will let the SEC consider whether
trading rules should distinguish between stocks depending
issuer’s size. The regulator is continuing to develop a plan for
a pilot program that would increase the minimum quoting
increment for smaller stocks, which some brokers and companies
say would boost liquidity. The current minimum quoting
requirement is for 1-cent increments.  White expects the SEC staff to recommend such a pilot
program, which would require approval by the five-member
commission, she said in an interview after her speech. White
declined to say when she expects the project to move forward.  “I have instructed the SEC staff to move forward on
earlier efforts to work with the exchanges as they develop and,
if possible, present to the Commission for its consideration a
plan to implement a pilot program that would allow smaller
companies to use wider tick sizes,” White said in the speech.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  