-- Shekel Drops Most in Week on Bank of Israel’s Dollar-Buying Plan
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2013-10-02T16:24:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/shekel-set-for-biggest-one-week-loss-on-dollar-purchase-increase.html
The shekel dropped the most in a week
after the central bank said it will increase the amount of
dollar purchases next year to weaken the local currency and
support exporters.  The shekel slid 0.4 percent to 3.5417 a dollar by 7:14 p.m.
in  Tel Aviv , the steepest loss on a closing basis since Sept.
25. It gained 5.4 percent this year, the top performer among an
expanded group of 31 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The central bank will buy $3.5 billion in 2014 to offset
the impact of domestic gas production on  Israel ’s balance of
payments, it said today. The bank announced in May it will buy
$2.1 billion this year. Israel started to pump gas from the
Tamar field at the end of March, enabling the nation to cut a
dependence on Egyptian gas for much of its power generation. For
every $1 billion improvement in the BoP, the  exchange rate 
should appreciate about 1 percent, the bank has estimated.  “The central bank is trying to use its tools to weaken the
shekel and help exporters,” Eytan Admoni, head of the
international department at the  Bank of Jerusalem (JBNK)  Ltd., said by
phone. “It is a fair amount that may help to moderate shekel
gains but more buying will be needed to change the strengthening
trend of the currency.”  Israel’s move to produce its own gas comes after Egypt cut
its flow of gas to the country, forcing companies to switch to
more-expensive imported alternatives. Israel recorded a current-account surplus of $1.79 billion in the second quarter, the
 Central Bureau of Statistics  said Sept. 12.  The  Bank of Israel  yesterday bought a few tens of millions
of dollars, according to Rony Gitlin, head of spot trading at
Bank Leumi Le-Israel, after the shekel strengthened to the
highest level in a week on Sept. 30. Central Bank spokesman Yoav
Soffer declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  