-- Soco Doubles Estimate of Vietnam Well to 200 Million Barrels
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-10-02T16:47:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/soco-doubles-estimate-of-vietnam-well-to-200-million-barrels.html
Soco International Plc (SIA) , a U.K.
explorer focused on Africa and Asia, said a well off  Vietnam 
holds as much as 200 million barrels of oil and gas, double its
best previous estimate. The shares rose.  The TGT-10XST1 well on the H5 block of the Te Giac Trang,
or TGT, field produced more than 27,600 barrels of oil
equivalent a day, the company said today in a statement. Soco
completed tests at three zones in the well.  The test increased the well resource estimate to 150
million to 200 million barrels, up from the previous guidance of
50 million to 100 million barrels. “It’s the biggest well I’ve
ever been associated with in 37 years or so,” Chief Financial
Officer Roger Cagle said in a phone interview.  Soco  shares  advanced 4.4 percent to 415.60 pence in  London 
in the biggest gain since July 22. It was the best performer on
the FTSE 350 Oil & Gas Producers Index, which fell 0.3 percent.  The company, based in London, plans to conduct tests at its
TGT floating production, storage and offloading vessel for
higher capacity to accommodate increased output from the field
and volumes from  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM) ’s nearby deposit. The
latest well and the “imminent gas sale” contract will boost
the total TGT field resource estimate to more than 1.3 billion
barrels of oil equivalent, Cagle said.  “This is another excellent result at the TGT field and
confirms its status as a world-class asset,” VSA Capital Ltd.
analyst  Dougie Youngson  wrote in a report. Soco has “potential
as a takeover target.”  Cagle declined to comment on any possible bids.  “You’d think that people who are interested in production
assets would be more interested now than they have been
before,” the CFO said. “There has been plenty of interest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  