-- South Korea’s Won Near Eight-Month High on Inflows; Bonds Steady
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-10-02T08:24:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/south-korean-bonds-fall-as-bok-easing-cycle-seen-over-won-drops.html
South  Korea ’s won traded near the
highest level since January as overseas investors bought local
stocks for the 26th straight day. Government bonds were steady.  The currency closed little changed at 1,074.04 per dollar,
0.2 percent off yesterday’s intraday high of 1,072.3, which was
the strongest level since Jan. 25, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected
moves in the exchange rate used to price options, fell eight
basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 7.32 percent.  The won rose yesterday as Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok
said South Korea will take steps to stabilize financial markets
if needed after the U.S. government was forced into a partial
shutdown for the first time in 17 years. Foreign investors have
pumped $288 million into local stocks this week, adding to $2.1
billion of net purchases this year, exchange data show.  “We are seeing more dollar supplies from foreign buying of
local stocks,” said Han Sung Min, a currency trader at Busan
Bank in  Seoul . “Investors are cautious about the risk of
intervention if the won heads toward 1,070 against the dollar.”  South Korea will move to check currency volatility,
including imposing a levy on banks’ foreign-currency debt and a
cap on lenders’ currency forward positions, if “herd behavior”
causes drastic movements, the Finance Ministry said in June. The
won has risen 2.5 percent in the past month, which erodes the
competitiveness of the nation’s exports.  The yield on the government’s 2.75 percent sovereign notes
due June 2016 was unchanged at 2.83 percent, Korea Exchange Inc.
prices show. All seven members of the Bank of Korea’s monetary
policy committee agreed to keep the benchmark seven-day
repurchase rate at 2.5 percent on Sept. 12, after a quarter-point cut in May, according to minutes of the meeting released
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  