-- Southwest Fires Captain Over LaGuardia Nose-First Landing
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-10-02T23:32:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/southwest-fires-captain-over-laguardia-nose-first-landing.html
Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  said it fired
the captain who was at the controls of a plane that landed nose
first at  New York ’s  LaGuardia Airport  in July, injuring nine
people and snarling air traffic for hours.  The action came as Dallas-based Southwest completed its
probe of the accident, Linda Rutherford, an airline spokeswoman,
said today by e-mail, without giving details. Southwest ordered
the first officer to undergo more training, Rutherford said.  Cockpit procedure has been a focus of the U.S. inquiry into
the July 22 incident. Flight 345’s captain, a 13-year Southwest
pilot, took control from the first officer just before the
 Boeing Co. (BA)  737 hit the runway, according to the  National
Transportation Safety Board , whose investigation continues.  “The question is why the captain took control,” Bill Waldock, who teaches accident investigation at Embry-Riddle
Aeronautical University in Prescott,  Arizona , said in an
interview. “Normally, unless something major is wrong, the
flying pilot is going to maintain control. The flying pilot can
feel what the airplane is doing. When the captain takes control,
it takes him a few seconds to understand what’s happening.”  Crew’s Experience  The captain, with six years in that post, had more than
12,000 flight hours, the NTSB has said. The co-pilot had been
with Southwest about 18 months at the time of the accident and
had 5,200 flight hours. The pilots had been on administrative
leave during Southwest’s inquiry.  “As a matter of policy we have not identified the pilots
and we are not discussing the specifics,” Rutherford said. “We
are also still in an active investigation with the NTSB.”  With its nose pointed three degrees downward, the 737-700
struck the runway first with the landing gear at the front of
the plane instead of settling onto the main wheels located
beneath the wings, the NTSB said in a July 25 release.  The forward gear broke, snapping rearward and damaging an
electronics bay. Flight 345 was arriving from Nashville,
 Tennessee , and carried 150 people.  Union pilots are “disappointed” by the captain’s
dismissal, Southwest Airlines Pilots’ Association President Mark
Richardson said in an e-mailed statement.  The union will “ensure the terminated pilot receives their
right to due process,” Richardson said. “Swapa and Southwest
Airlines are currently involved in the ongoing NTSB
investigation as to probable cause and it is yet to be
completed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  