-- SSE Reviews Marine Projects as Technology Development Stalls
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-10-02T14:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/sse-reviews-marine-projects-as-technology-development-stalls.html
SSE Plc (SSE)  said it’s reviewing how to
proceed with its marine-power projects after the  Guardian
newspaper  reported it was scaling back following EON SE and  RWE
AG (RWE) ’s withdrawals from their own wave ventures.  The utility is studying options, including bringing in
other parties, the Perth, Scotland-based company said today in a
statement. “We are working on a plan which will maintain
interest in SSE’s marine development projects and facilitate
additional third-party involvement in the future to help take
the projects forward,” it said.  The Guardian reported Sept. 27 that SSE was talking to
partners about reducing investment amid a difficult regulatory
environment and slow progress on bringing the technology to
market. While the government estimates marine power could supply
20 percent of U.K. power demand by 2020, developers have yet to
begin operating commercial-scale projects.  EON in July stopped working with Pelamis Wave Power Ltd. on
a project in  Scotland  because of the technology’s slow
development. RWE exited the Siadar wave venture in the region in
2011.  SSE has four marine ventures including a wave park it’s
developing with Aquamarine Power Ltd. and a tidal venture it’s
working on with OpenHydro Group Ltd. in the Pentland Firth and
Orkney Waters.  “Although there is considerable marine energy technology
development to be done over the next few years, SSE continues to
believe that marine-based technologies, wave and tidal, have the
potential to make an important contribution to the U.K.’s
renewable generation capacity in the next decade,” SSE said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  