-- Steve Jobs Never Worried About the Debt Ceiling
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2013-10-02T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/steve-jobs-never-worried-about-the-debt-ceiling.html
Everyone knows, or has heard the
cliche, that markets hate uncertainty. It’s also a given that
the future is always uncertain. How, then, do markets ever
manage to function -- or, for that matter, businesses, which
must make decisions today about investments that will pay off in
the future?  Faced with the inherent contradiction, some economists have
decided to -- what else? -- create a model to quantify the
effect of  policy uncertainty  on the economy.  Regular readers know I’m a skeptic when it comes to
uncertainty as the explanation for every wiggle in the markets,
every downtick in  consumer confidence , every percentage-point
decline in business investment. In many cases, uncertainty is a
euphemism for pessimism. So I approached the subject, not to
mention the idea that a model could capture policy uncertainty
with some degree of certainty, with a strong negative bias.
After looking at some of the research, let’s just say I’m a
little more receptive, but I’m not sold on the idea just yet.  Faced with an anemic recovery from the deep 2007-2009
recession, economists Scott R. Baker and Nicholas Bloom of
 Stanford University  and Steven J. Davis of the  University of
Chicago , decided to design an index that would encapsulate
policy uncertainty. Their index is made up of three types of
information: the frequency of references to policy-related
uncertainty in newspaper articles, the number of federal-tax-code provisions set to expire in future years and their revenue
impact, and the extent of disagreement among forecasters about
inflation and  government spending .  Distinguishable Difference  The economists perform lots of cross-checks on their data,
control for political slant, even scan 4,300 news stories to
make sure their sample -- 10 leading U.S. newspapers -- is a
good reflection of the trend, all of which the authors explain
in their most recent  paper .  Not surprisingly, their Economic Policy Uncertainty Index,
or EPU Index, shows a  surge in uncertainty  around presidential
elections, at the outbreak of wars and after the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks. The 1997 Asian financial crisis, on the other
hand, didn’t produce an increase in policy uncertainty as
measured by the index, leading the authors to conclude that
policy uncertainty and ordinary economic uncertainty are
different and can be distinguished from each other.  After the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
September 2008, the EPU Index went up and stayed at elevated
levels. Economic uncertainty? For sure. Pessimism? You bet.
Aren’t they all of a piece?  In a telephone interview this week, Davis acknowledged the
difficulty of isolating uncertainty from pessimism, of
differentiating between economic and policy uncertainty “even
at the conceptual level, since often they go hand in hand.”
Still, he and his colleagues have managed to document situations
in which economic uncertainty didn’t breed policy uncertainty.  It isn’t hard to understand why the extreme readings during
the debt-ceiling debate in the summer of 2011 and again at year-end 2012 (the fiscal cliff) were policy-related. But the authors
maintain that policy uncertainty -- specifically about tax,
spending and regulatory (but not monetary) policies -- explains
the sustained high level since the recession.  Other metrics paint a different picture. For example, an
index of 30-day implied volatility on the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, or VIX, has been declining since late 2008. Davis
explains the divergence between the VIX and EPU Index by their
different time horizons: 30-day versus open-ended. In addition,
“the VIX only covers part of the economy reflected by publicly
traded corporations,” and two-thirds of private-sector workers
are employed elsewhere, he says.  Davis is the first to admit that not all policy uncertainty
yields bad results. For example, a debate in Congress about
various alternatives for corporate  tax reform  would be a plus.
“I’ll take that kind of uncertainty any day,” he says.  Still Skeptical  Now comes the “but.” Policy uncertainly surely is a
factor in business decision-making, but it can’t be all that
it’s cracked up to be. Why do I say that? More than half the
companies on the 2009 Fortune 500 list were started during a
recession or a  bear market , according to a  study  by the Kauffman
Foundation. The government is always fiddling with tax-and-spend
policies during recessions, which is a source of policy
uncertainty. Who can tell how long that timely, targeted and
temporary fiscal stimulus is going to last?  “Policy is not that important to companies that turn out
to be really successful,” says  Robert Litan , director of
research at Bloomberg Government, a part of Bloomberg LP. “Are
the Steve Jobses of tomorrow sitting around worrying about the
debt ceiling?”  Heavens, no. They’re too busy following their dream. Big
companies are more cautious, have a greater fear of failure, but
that isn’t where job growth comes from anyway. Entrepreneurs
thrive in a world of uncertainty. They aren’t trying to meet
existing demand for goods and services. They’re busy dreaming up
something you never imagined you wanted or needed.  Even if entrepreneurs hated uncertainty, now that it’s
become the norm -- and the EPU Index suggests that it has --
what’s the alternative?  (Caroline Baum, author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Caroline Baum  in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 