-- Stiglitz Advises Independent Scotland to Set Up Twin Oil Funds
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-10-02T13:48:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/stiglitz-advises-independent-scotland-to-set-up-twin-oil-funds.html
An independent  Scotland  should use
North Sea oil and gas revenue to set up a short-term
stabilization fund and a long-term wealth fund, according to the
Scottish government’s economic advisers.  A future government may be able to start making “modest
investments” into an oil savings fund by 2017-2018 or toward
the end of the decade assuming public-sector debt was
decreasing, the Fiscal Commission Working Group, which includes
Nobel Prize winning economists  Joseph Stiglitz  and James Mirrlees, said in a  report  published today.  Independence is the flagship policy of the  Scottish
National Party  that runs the semi-autonomous government in
Edinburgh, and First Minister  Alex Salmond  has said he wants to
establish an oil fund similar to Norway. The SNP plans to hold a
referendum on independence in September 2014, with British Prime
Minister  David Cameron  and the opposition  Labour Party  both
campaigning for a “No” vote to keep the U.K. intact.  “Scotland’s fiscal position will strengthen with economic
recovery,” so that the  budget deficit  may narrow to less than 3
percent of gross domestic product by 2017-18, Finance Secretary
John Swinney said in an e-mailed statement. “This would allow
an independent Scotland to consider investing modest sums into a
long-term savings fund without an offsetting change to public
spending or taxation.”  The short-term fund would be used to manage fluctuations in
revenue and act as a liquidity buffer to help manage public
sector finances, the advisers said. That would allow  government
borrowing  to be more stable, more predictable and potentially
cheaper, they said.  Poll Support  On a geographical basis, an independent Scotland would get
an estimated 90 percent of current U.K. oil and gas revenue.
Still, opinion polls suggest Salmond’s view that oil levies have
the potential to improve Scotland’s economic prospects has yet
to resonate with voters: support for independence lags behind
the status quo by about 20 percentage points.  The economists set out recommendations in February for how
an independent Scottish economy might work. They proposed a
formal sterling currency union with the rest of the U.K. That
has been rejected as “highly unlikely” by Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne .  Alistair Darling, Osborne’s Labour Party predecessor as
chancellor, said the latest proposal to pay money into a wealth
fund before public-sector finances are in surplus undermined the
SNP’s credibility with further spending commitments.  “You cannot spend the money more than once,” Darling,
chairman of the “No” campaign, known as “Better Together,”
said in an e-mailed statement. “All existing oil revenues are
needed to pay for schools, hospital and pensions in Scotland. As
John Swinney said, paying into an oil fund means cutting
elsewhere or raising taxes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  