-- Storms in the Caribbean Pose Low Threat to Gulf Gas Production
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-10-02T12:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/storms-in-the-caribbean-pose-low-threat-to-gulf-gas-production.html
A low-pressure system in the
Caribbean Sea will be a “very low” threat to oil and gas
production in the Gulf of  Mexico  even if it manages to gain
strength, said Matt Rogers, president of the Commodity Weather
Group LLC.  The cluster of storms near Mexico’s Yucatan Peninsula has a
40 percent chance of becoming a tropical system in the next two
days and a 50 percent chance in the next five, according to the
 National Hurricane Center  in Miami.  “My feeling is that this system may develop faster than
expected today, which will create concern and perhaps trigger
some precautionary evacuations,” Rogers said in an e-mail.
“But upcoming Yucatan land interaction and high Gulf wind shear
should weaken the system before it reaches the production
region, keeping the threat of damage/disruption very low.”  Tropical systems in the Gulf can affect oil and natural gas
operations for both Mexico and the U.S. The region is home to 23
percent of U.S. crude production, 5.6 percent of gas output and
more than 45 percent of petroleum refining capacity, according
to the Energy Department.  The Bay of Campeche, in the southwestern Gulf, is where
Petroleos Mexicanos, Mexico’s state-owned oil company, has its
two largest oil fields. They produce about 1.25 million barrels
a day.  Tropical systems tend to lose power when they cross land.
Shear, winds that blow at different directions or speeds at
varying altitudes, can tear a storm’s structure.  When the emerging system gets into the southern Gulf, it
won’t have enough time to gain much strength before it reaches
the U.S. coast between Mobile,  Alabama , and the Florida
Panhandle by the weekend, Rogers said.  The hurricane center is also tracking Tropical Storm Jerry
with top sustained winds of 40 miles (65 kilometers) per hour.
It was 1,925 miles west-southwest of the Azores and doesn’t pose
an immediate threat to land.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  