-- Storebrand Climbs as Returns Seen Boosting Earnings: Oslo Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2013-10-02T11:03:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/storebrand-climbs-as-returns-seen-boosting-earnings-oslo-mover.html
Storebrand ASA (STB) ,  Norway ’s second-largest insurer, climbed the most in almost two weeks in Oslo
trading as improving returns on its investments bolster its
earnings outlook.  The Oslo-based insurer rose as much as 3 percent, the
 biggest intraday gain  since Sept. 20, and traded 2.6 percent
higher at 34.47 kroner as of 1 p.m. in the capital. That makes
Storebrand the biggest gainer on the Oslo stock exchange’s OBX
index of 25 most-traded stocks. More than 877,000 shares have
been traded, about 60 percent of the average daily volume during
the last three months.  “Storebrand’s third-quarter numbers should be supported by
high equity returns and tightening credit spreads,” Pareto
Securities AS analyst Vegard Eid Mediaas said in a note to
clients today. Storebrand’s financial result in SPP, its
Stockholm-based unit, will amount to about 100 million kroner
($16.6 million) in the quarter, “while the results in its
Norwegian operations will continue to be used to strengthen
longevity reserves,” Pareto said.  Storebrand is seeking to transfer customers from pension
products with guarantees to non-guaranteed based policies as low
 interest rates  make it harder to generate returns. It’s also
planning to strengthen its balance sheet ahead of the
introduction of capital rules known as Solvency II.  Implementation of those regulations has been delayed until
2016 or 2017 from 2014 because of objections from insurers about
how much capital is required to back long-term guaranteed
products such as annuities.  Gjensidige Forsikring ASA (GJF) , Norway’s largest insurer, owns
24 percent of Storebrand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  