-- Sugar Trade Spurs Land Grabs in Developing Countries, Oxfam Says
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-10-02T10:52:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/sugar-trade-spurs-land-grabs-in-developing-countries-oxfam-says.html
Global trade in sugar is helping to
fuel land grabs in  developing countries , and food and beverage
companies should do more to protect smallholder farmers from
losing their livelihoods, Oxfam International said.  Out of the 31 million hectares (77 million acres) of land
used to produce sugar globally, at least 4 million hectares have
changed hands in large-scale deals since 2000, Oxfam said in a
report today. Rising prices and consumer demand have encouraged
more large-scale production operations at the expense of smaller
farms in countries including Brazil and Cambodia, it said.  “In some cases, these acquisitions have been linked to
human rights violations, loss of livelihoods and hunger for
small-scale food producers and their families,” Oxfam said.
“Small-scale producers are sidelined as the market offers
companies huge rewards for exploiting land, but without
safeguarding people’s rights.”  While sugar dropped 5.4 percent this year on ICE Futures
U.S. in  New York , prices have rallied 60 percent since the end
of 2007. Global trade in sugar is worth $47 billion, Oxfam said.  Fifty-one percent of sugar produced worldwide is used in
processed food including soft drinks, confectionery, baked goods
and ice cream, Oxfam said. While many food and beverage makers
don’t own land directly, companies including Coco-Cola Co.,
 PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  and  Associated British Foods Plc (ABF)  should “take
steps to ensure that land rights violations and conflicts are
not part of their supply chains,” according to the report.  AB Foods, owner of  Africa ’s biggest sugar producer  Illovo
Sugar Ltd. (ILV) , “works to the highest ethical standards to benefit
the communities in which it operates,” according to a company
statement in response to the Oxfam report. Coca-Cola said in a
statement that it is “working to promote respect for human and
workplace rights” and it’s asking suppliers to safeguard local
communities’ access to land and natural resources. PepsiCo
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail sent to its European
press office for comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 