-- Swiss Stocks Decline Most Since August as Roche Retreats
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-10-02T15:51:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/swiss-stocks-decline-most-since-august-as-roche-retreats.html
Stocks in Switzerland  dropped the
most in more than a month as the U.S. government shutdown
entered its second day.  Roche Holding AG (ROG) , the world’s largest maker of cancer
drugs, slid 1.6 percent, following a gauge of European health-care companies lower.  Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest food
company, lost 1.4 percent. Acino Holding AG rallied 32 percent
after agreeing to be bought by Avista  Capital Partners  and
Nordic Capital for 398 million Swiss francs ($440 million).  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  declined 1.2 percent to 7,964.44 at
the close of trading in Zurich. The measure advanced 3.6 percent
in September, extending its gain last quarter to 4.4 percent, as
the  Federal Reserve  refrained from reducing its monthly bond
purchases. The gauge has rallied 17 percent so far in 2013. The
broader Swiss Performance Index lost 1.1 percent today.  “Fear is increasing among investors that the situation in
the U.S. won’t be solved in a timely manner,” said Joerg Lorenz, a senior  fund manager  who oversees about $560 million at
Zuercher Kantonalbank AG in Zurich.  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 3 percent greater than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The U.S. government began its first partial shutdown in 17
years yesterday as Republicans and Democrats failed to agree on
a compromise budget to keep the federal government open into the
new financial year. As many as 800,000 federal employees didn’t
work and the government closed some services.  Shutdown Costs  A partial shutdown lasting one week would probably shave
0.1 percentage point from economic growth, according to the
median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey, with the
costs accelerating if the closure persists.  Day one of the shutdown wrapped up with no talks scheduled
between the White House and Congress, making it more likely the
standoff would merge with the fight over raising the U.S. debt
limit later this month to make sure the government can pay all
its bills.  The U.S. has begun final steps to avoid breaching its debt
limit, Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said, urging Congress to
raise the borrowing authority “immediately” in a letter
addressed to House Speaker  John Boehner . Lew repeated that the
measures will be exhausted no later than Oct. 17.  In  Italy , Prime Minister Enrico Letta won a confidence vote
today after  Silvio Berlusconi  backtracked on a pledge to bring
down the five-month old government as his party showed signs of
deserting him.  Berlusconi Threat  Berlusconi had repeatedly threatened to bring down the
government if Letta’s  Democratic Party  voted to expel him from
the Senate following his definitive conviction for  tax fraud  in
August. A public hearing in a Senate committee on the matter is
scheduled for Oct. 4.  European Central Bank policy makers meeting in Paris today
kept the benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at a record low of
0.5 percent, in line with economists’ forecasts in a Bloomberg
 survey .  Roche fell 1.6 percent to 241.60 francs. Novartis AG and
Actelion Ltd. declined 1.4 percent to 68.55 francs and 1.3
percent to 62.75 francs, respectively.  Nestle dropped 1.4 percent to 62.25 francs, contributing
the most to the SMI’s slide, as Patrick Hasenboehler, an analyst
at J. Safra Sarasin, reiterated his neutral rating on the shares
after the company’s investor seminar.  “We have some doubts about the momentum and the valuation
is not particularly attractive,” Hasenboehler wrote in a note
to clients today.  Dufry Slides  Dufry AG, an operator of duty-free stores, decreased 2.2
percent to 135.20 francs. A gauge of European retailers posted
the second-worst performance of the 19 industry groups in the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index after Tesco Plc said first-half earnings
declined, missing analysts’ estimates.  Acino (ACIN)  surged 32 percent to 113.80 francs. Avista Capital
Partners and Nordic Capital will offer shareholders 115 francs a
share in cash in a tender offer, Acino said in a statement
today. That’s 33 percent above yesterday’s closing price of
86.50 francs a share. Acino said its board unanimously supported
the offer.  “We highly recommend to tender the shares,” Carla Baenziger, an analyst at Vontobel Holding AG, wrote in a report
today. “The fact that the board supports the offer unanimously
indicates that the price is certainly not too low.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  