-- U.A.E Precious Metals Hub Seen Growing as Location Feeds Demand
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-10-02T10:40:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/u-a-e-precious-metals-hub-seen-growing-as-location-feeds-demand.html
The  United Arab Emirates  will grow as
a precious-metals trading hub as more overseas companies turn to
the country because of its location near consuming nations,
according to the Dubai Multi Commodities Centre.  Dubai accounts for about 25 percent of global physical gold
trade, Gautam Sashittal, chief operating officer of government-owned DMCC, said in a Sept. 30 interview at the London Bullion
Market Association’s annual conference in  Rome . Gold trade in
the country totaled $45 billion in the first half of this year,
compared with $70 billion in all of 2012, he said.  The DMCC is the U.A.E.’s largest free zone offering more
than 7,300 companies, a number of them in the precious metals
industry, tax-free status, Sashittal said. While gold is heading
for the first annual decline in 13 years as some investors lost
faith in the metal as a store of value, the plunge to a 34-month
low in June boosted purchases of jewelry, bars and coins in
 Asia . India and  China  are the biggest gold consumers.  “So long as we provide world class infrastructure,
products, services and appropriate regulation, the trade can
only grow,” Sashittal said. “Dubai is a natural location. It’s
ideally located between resource producing countries and
consuming countries.”  Gold for immediate delivery traded at $1,292.98 an ounce
by 11:30 a.m. in London, set for a 23 percent drop this year.
Prices that rebounded from $1,180.50 in June compare with a
record $1,921.15 in September 2011.  Physical Demand  The slump boosted global bar and coin sales 78 percent to a
high in the second quarter, the London-based World Gold Council
estimates. Appetite for those items contrasts with sales of gold
from  exchange-traded product  holdings, which fell 702.7 metric
tons, or 27 percent, this year.  The Dubai Good Delivery standard was developed by the DMCC
in 2005 and there are 16 DGD refineries across 10 countries.
They signed up in June 2012 to the DMCC’s responsible sourcing
guidelines, based on Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development guidelines.  All the refineries should comply with the guidelines, or
other accepted responsible-sourcing audits, Sashitall said. One
of the three DGD refiners in the U.A.E. passed the audit and the
other two should complete the process in the coming weeks, he
said.  “The DGD standard and DMCC’s responsible sourcing protocol
and process are robust and internationally accepted,” Sashittal
said. “Once refineries have passed the audit process, global
acceptability of that gold becomes easier. That in turn allows
the Dubai market, and participants trading via Dubai, to grow.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in  London  at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  