-- U.K. Construction Expands in Sign of New Growth: Economy
-- B y   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-10-02T14:29:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/u-k-construction-expands-for-fifth-month-as-homebuilding-gains.html
U.K. construction  output expanded for
a fifth month in September as homebuilding posted its strongest
growth for a decade, adding to evidence the economy gained pace
in the third quarter.  An index of building activity slipped to 58.9 from a
record-high 59.1 in August,  Markit Economics  said today in
 London . The gauge has been above 50, the level separating
expansion from contraction, since May. The median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a gain to 59.5.  The U.K.  economy  grew 0.7 percent in the second quarter and
indicators suggest a further strengthening since then as the
housing market enjoys its strongest run since the financial
crisis. Prime Minister  David Cameron  told his  Conservative
Party ’s annual conference today that Britain is “beginning to
turn a corner” and  Bank of England  Governor  Mark Carney  said
last week he doesn’t see an argument for expanding stimulus.  “There’s a slight moderation in the headline but they’re
still pointing towards a very good third-quarter number,” said
Stuart Green, an economist at Santander in London. “My forecast
is for 0.9 percent growth. But a lot rests on the services
sector,” the largest part of the U.K. economy.  The pound approached the strongest level since January
versus the dollar following the  construction report and was
trading at $1.6241 as of 3:10 p.m. London time, up 0.3 percent
on the day. The benchmark  10-year gilt   yield  was little changed
at 2.71 percent.  Residential construction was the strongest performing
building sector last month, expanding at its fastest pace since
November 2003, Markit said. Commercial building work grew the
most since May 2012.  ‘Riding High’  Building firms  added jobs at the quickest rate for almost
six years as order book swelled, the report showed. Companies
were more optimistic about their prospects than at any time
since April 2010. Costs rose the most since 2011 in a sign of
buildings inflation pressures.  “Construction is no longer the weakest link in the U.K.
economy,” said Tim Moore, senior economist at Markit. “The
third quarter of 2013 ended with output growth riding high amid
greater spending on infrastructure projects and resurgent house
building activity.”  An index of  manufacturing  slipped to 56.7 in September from
a 2 1/2-year high of 57.1 in August as export demand slowed,
Markit said yesterday. A services gauge probably held at a
seven-year high of 60.5 last month, economists said before a
separate report tomorrow.  Growth Momentum  “Forward looking indicators signal that that pace of
growth will be maintained for the next two quarters,” BOE
policy maker  Paul Fisher  said today in London. Doing more
quantitative easing now would risk adding “fuel to what’s
already a growing economy,” he said.  Wolseley Plc (WOS) , the world’s biggest distributor of plumbing
and heating products, yesterday reported a 9 percent increase in
full-year profit. Chief Executive Officer Ian Meakins said that
U.K. market growth is “encouraging” and noted an improvement
in housing transactions.  Construction has fared worse than the services and
manufacturing sectors of the economy since the financial crisis,
the victim of government austerity and a credit famine. From its
peak in early 2008, output contracted by a fifth over the
following five years.  The pickup in homebuilding activity may ease concerns that
a bubble is developing in the housing market after Cameron began
offering government subsidies for cash-strapped home buyers in
April under his Help to Buy program.  Homes Needed  House prices  rose the most in more than six years in
September, according to property researcher Hometrack.
 Nationwide Building Society (UKNBAAMM)  also reported an increase in prices
in September and said homebuilding is “well below” the pace
needed to keep up with demand.  Cameron defied critics of Help to Buy including the
 International Monetary Fund  this week and said the second phase
of the program will start now, three months earlier than
planned.  Separate data from the Bank of England highlighted the
challenges facing the recovery as consumers seek to reduce debts
rather than borrow. Britons injected a net 15.4 billion pounds
of equity into their homes in the second quarter, the BOE said.
Prior to the financial crash, consumers borrowed against the
value of their homes to fund purchases of everything from cars
to vacations.  European Central Bank policy makers kept the benchmark
main refinancing rate unchanged at a record low of 0.5 percent
at their meeting in Paris today.  “I see a recovery that’s weak, that is uneven, that’s
fragile and it really starts from very low levels,” ECB
President  Mario Draghi  said in a press conference.
“Unemployment is now stabilizing at high levels, very high
levels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eshe Nelson in London at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  