-- U.K.'s Shale-Gas Costs Seen Limiting Price Curbs
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2013-10-02T13:22:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/u-k-s-shale-gas-costs-seen-limiting-price-curbs.html
Costs for producing shale gas in the
U.K. are double that of the U.S., limiting any price reduction
for consumers, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Extracting gas from shale in areas such as the Bowland
basin in northern England would cost $7.10 to $12.20 per million
British thermal units compared with $5 to $6 in the U.S., BNEF
wrote in evidence to a House of Lords committee. The greater
cost, because of higher land prices and lack of rigs and
infrastructure, is close to the $8-to-$11 range in which U.K.
spot prices have traded in the last two years, it said.  Exploitation of shale resources in the U.S. has seen it
overtake  Russia  as the world’s biggest gas producer in 2009,
slashing prices to a low of $1.80 per million Btu in March last
year. The U.K. government, hoping to counter declining reserves
from the North Sea and cut imports, has promised tax breaks to
encourage drilling.  “Political, environmental and legal concerns will play a
significant role in the trajectory of shale-gas development in
the U.K.,” BNEF said  in the report dated Sept. 30 and
distributed to media today. “Ultimately, however, it will be
economics that will be the deciding factor: unless the gas is
profitable to extract and distribute, the total volume of U.K.
shale gas resources is immaterial.”  Fields in northern  England  may hold as much as 1,300
trillion cubic feet of gas, the government said in June. Even in
the most favorable scenario, with production at 4.5 billion
cubic feet a day in the mid-2020s, the U.K. will not be self-sufficient in gas, according to today’s report.  “The reliance on continued imports will ensure that U.K.
gas prices remain tied to European and world markets and so the
direct impact of shale on the cost of electricity in the U.K.
will be limited,” it said.  Gas prices in the U.K. were at 67.75 pence a therm today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That equates to $10.98
per million British thermal units.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  