-- U.K. Regulator Scrutinizes Impact of Capital Influx on Insurers
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-10-02T17:26:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/u-k-frustrated-by-delays-to-eu-insurance-rules-adams-says.html
British regulators  are scrutinizing
the impact of the wave of capital from investors such as hedge
and pension funds on the  insurance industry .  “The availability of this additional capital inevitably
affects the decisions made by insurers and reinsurers on the
underwriting and pricing of risk, and on the viability and
sustainability of important lines of their business,” Julian Adams, deputy chief of the U.K.’s Prudential Regulation
Authority, said in a speech in  London  today.  Funds are increasingly investing in insurance-linked
securities such as catastrophe bonds to generate higher yields
as  interest rates  stay near record lows. About $44 billion of
the $510 billion of capital accumulated in the reinsurance
industry at the end of June came from such non-traditional
sources, according to Aon Benfield. That growth has forced
reinsurers to cut the rates they charge, threatening profit.  That pressure may prompt firms to increase the risks they
take on, or diversify into areas in which they have little
expertise, Adams said.  “You should expect us as the prudential regulator to be
especially alert when firms’ traditional business comes under
pressure,” he said.  Adams said regulators will want to know when insurers
themselves use such securities that they understand the extent
to which they are actually transferring risk.  “Some of these structures do not offer the same sort of
reinstatement cover as traditional reinsurance,” he said. “We
expect firms to analyze carefully the collateral arrangements
which form part of these deals, to ensure that they are
satisfied that cover will respond in all the circumstances that
the insurer expects.”  Lloyd’s of London Chairman  John Nelson  last month called on
regulators to be “extremely watchful” about the new entrants
to the market, saying they could pose a systemic threat by
detaching capital from risk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  