-- U.K. Stocks Decline for Fourth Day Amid U.S. Shutdown
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-10-02T15:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/u-k-stocks-drop-for-fourth-day-as-tesco-tumbles.html
U.K. stocks  retreated for a fourth
day, the longest losing streak in almost two months, as the U.S.
government shutdown entered its second day and the  European
Central Bank  announced no new stimulus measures.  Unilever declined 1.7 percent, heading for the biggest
weekly drop in three years, as UBS AG lowered its recommendation
on the shares.  Wolfson Microelectronics Plc (WLF)  tumbled the most in
more than two years after its fourth-quarter sales prediction
trailed analysts’ forecasts.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  lost 22.51 points, or 0.4 percent, to
6,437.5 at the close in London, a one-month low. The gauge has
still rallied 9.2 percent this year as the  Bank of England  gave
forward guidance on  interest rates  for the first time and the
 Federal Reserve  maintained its monthly bond purchases. The
broader FTSE All-Share Index also fell 0.4 percent today, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index retreated 0.3 percent.  “Stocks on both sides of the Atlantic are deep in the red
as investors worry about the implications of a protracted U.S.
government shutdown,” Ishaq Siddiqi, a London-based market
strategist at ETX Capital, wrote in a note. “The longer the
shutdown, the more worrying it is for investors who fear that
there’s potential for damage to the real economy.”  ECB President  Mario Draghi  refrained from signaling that
any new measures are needed to boost Europe’s economic recovery.
He said on Sept. 23 that another long-term refinancing
operation, or LTRO, could be deployed to provide funds to
Europe’s banks if needed. The central bank left its key interest
rate unchanged at a record low of 0.5 percent.  Partial Shutdown  The U.S. government yesterday began its first partial
shutdown in 17 years after Democrats and Republicans failed to
agree on a budget. The move has placed as many as 800,000
federal employees on temporary unpaid leave, closed national
parks, museums and Internal Revenue Service call centers.  Congressional leaders continued a standoff over calls to
delay President  Barack Obama ’s health-care act, raising concern
the budget dispute may affect talks to increase the debt ceiling
this month to avoid a default. The U.S. has begun using the
final extraordinary measures to stay within the limit, Treasury
Secretary Jacob J. Lew said in a letter addressed to House
Speaker  John Boehner  yesterday. He reiterated that such measures
will be exhausted by Oct. 17.  In Italy, Prime Minister Enrico Letta won a confidence vote
after  Silvio Berlusconi  reversed his earlier position of
opposing the government as the former premier’s party showed
signs of deserting him.  Unilever Downgrade  Unilever slid 1.7 percent to 2,319 pence. The world’s
second-biggest consumer-goods company has retreated 5.6 percent
this week, the biggest drop since August 2010, after sales
growth slowed in the third quarter. UBS downgraded the shares to
neutral from buy, saying the company has lost its reputation for
reliability after the results.  Wolfson Microelectronics sank 16 percent to 147 pence, the
biggest drop since June 2011, as the Scottish semiconductor
developer forecast fourth-quarter sales of $40 million to $50
million. Analysts on average had projected $58.3 million.  Albemarle & Bond Holdings (ABM)  Plc plummeted 59 percent to 28
pence, extending this week’s slide to 78 percent. The pawnbroker
failed to conclude negotiations with its largest shareholder
EZCorp International Inc. to raise equity of about 35 million
pounds. The company said it has signed an agreement with its
lenders deferring a Sept. 30 debt covenant test until Oct. 30
and delayed announcing results for the year that ended in June.  Domino’s Pizza Group Plc (DOM)  climbed 3.7 percent to 610.5
pence, the biggest gain in two months, as it said U.K. same-store sales rose 4 percent in the third quarter.  “We are confident of meeting City expectations for the
full year,” Chief Executive Officer Lance Batchelor said in a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in  London  at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  