-- U.S. Shutdown Seen Threatening Transparency for Livestock Market
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2013-10-02T19:09:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/u-s-shutdown-seen-threatening-transparency-for-livestock-market.html
The first U.S. government shutdown in
17 years is curbing the collection of cash-livestock prices and
threatening to reduce transparency in the futures market used
for price discovery by farmers and meat processors.  CME Group Inc., (CME)  the world’s biggest futures-exchange
operator, said today it’s suspending publishing measurements of
cash prices for hogs and feeder cattle. The indexes, used to
settle some futures contracts, depend on data distributed by the
 U.S. Department of Agriculture . Parts of the agency have been
shuttered.  “The USDA data is very important for the market to
function and prevents one segment of the industry gaining an
advantage,”  David Anderson , an economist at  Texas A&M
University  in  College Station , Texas, said in a telephone
interview. “The longer this shutdown lasts, the less
transparency there will be for pricing cash livestock or
futures. Hedgers and non-hedgers are going to lose confidence
and begin to worry about holding their futures positions.”  Global stock markets fell and gold rallied as the U.S.
government shutdown entered a second day because of a budget
impasse. Grain and livestock traders monitor market information
usually distributed by the USDA, including cash prices,
slaughter rates, crop conditions and global supply and demand
data. The  National Agricultural Statistics Service  won’t issue
reports while employees are furloughed from government duty.  “We are going to get increasingly blind as we move forward
as we don’t see the cash prices,” Lawrence Kane, a market
adviser for Stewart-Peterson Group in Yates City, Illinois, said
in a telephone interview.  Futures Settlement  Feeder-cattle futures on the CME, which rose to an all-time
high today,  settle  at expiration based on the value of the most
recent prices of the feeder-cattle index, a one-week composite
of sales information collected and reported by the USDA’s
Agricultural Marketing Service. Lean-hog futures are settled
against a two-day index of cash prices reported by the agency.  Live-cattle and carcass grading data from the USDA will be
available for settlement against October live-cattle futures,
which enter a delivery period next week, the CME said in a
 release  today. Figures used for cash settlements for milk and
dairy-product  futures  will also be available, according to the
exchange operator. Meat-inspection  funding  will continue with
user fees to protect  food safety , the USDA has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  