-- U.S.-Korea Agree on Plan to Thwart N. Korea Nuclear Threats
-- B y   S a m   K i m   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-10-02T07:51:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/u-s-korea-agree-on-plan-to-thwart-north-korea-nuclear-threat.html
The U.S. and  South Korea  agreed on a
strategy aimed at thwarting  North Korea ’s growing nuclear threat
as the allies reassess their plan for South Korea to take back
wartime command of its forces from the U.S.  “We know that North Korea has increased its threats,
clearly, against South Korea, against the  United States ,”
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said at a press conference in
Seoul today. “It has increased its capabilities, its missile
capabilities, its three nuclear tests. So that is constantly
forcing a review of our strategies.‘‘  The U.S. maintains 28,500 troops in South Korea to help
defend against possible attacks from the North, 60 years after
the  Korean War  ended without a peace treaty and cemented the
division of the two countries. The U.S. was given wartime
command of South Korean forces at the onset of the conflict and
was set to return control to the South Koreans in 2015.  South Korean Defense Minister Kim Kwan Jin said on Sept. 3
that he doesn’t view December 2015 as the ‘‘right’’ time for his
country to assume wartime control of its 640,000 troops, as
South Korea remains short of perfecting the ability to
independently deter North Korea’s nuclear and missile threats.
The timing of that handover is still being discussed and is
‘‘conditions-based,’’ Hagel said today.  ‘Tailored’ Response  The U.S. and South Korea have worked up a ‘‘tailored’’
response to the North Korean nuclear threat that has become
‘‘real’’ since the North tested its third nuclear device in
February, Kim said at the press briefing with Hagel, following
annual security talks between the allies. He didn’t elaborate.  The accord announced today ‘‘means that the allies have
agreed on a plan to pre-emptively strike North Korean nuclear
threats if North Korea shows signs of attack,‘‘ Yang Uk, a
senior researcher at  Seoul ’s Korea Defense and Security Forum
think tank, said by phone. ‘‘Another element of that plan
probably involves a system that can shoot down nuclear-tipped
missiles if the allies fail to destroy them before the North
fires them.’’  South Korea plans to spend nearly 1 trillion won ($931
million) next year building a command system that would allow
its military to carry out first strikes against targets in North
Korea if required. The South is also spending 120 billion won to
enhance missile defense next year, according to the  Defense
Ministry .  Military Parade  South Korean President Park Geun Hye said yesterday her
government would hasten the development of those systems. Later
in the day, the country held its biggest military parade in a
decade to mark the Armed Forces Day, showcasing its latest
missiles.  ‘‘Missile defense has generally become a bigger and bigger
issue’’ as concern grows among South Korean officials that the
North is getting closer to pairing nuclear warheads with its
missiles,  Robert Kelly , an international relations professor at
Pusan National University in South Korea, said by phone.  The U.S. has also raised concerns about North Korea’s
alleged production of chemical weapons and Hagel said today
their use would be ‘‘unacceptable.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sam Kim in Seoul at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Seoul at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  