-- U.S. Offices Recover at Sluggish Pace as Rent Gains Slow
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-10-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/u-s-offices-recover-at-sluggish-pace-as-rent-gains-slow.html
The U.S. office market showed little
improvement in the third quarter as slow employment growth
restrained gains in  rents  and occupancies, research firm Reis
Inc. said today.  Tenants paid an average of $23.32 per square foot after
landlord discounts, up 2.3 percent from a year earlier and 0.3
percent from the second quarter, the New York-based company said
in a report. It was the third consecutive quarter of slowing
rent increases, Reis said. Office vacancies slipped to 16.9
percent, a four-year low, from 17 percent in the second quarter.  “While this is technically an improvement versus last
quarter, it is nonetheless a weak result,” with rent increases
not big enough to be meaningful, Ryan Severino, senior economist
at Reis, said in the report. “With the labor market’s ongoing
struggles to create office-using jobs, demand for space remains
muted.”  Most of this year’s  employment  growth has been in the
service industry, at workplaces such as hotels and restaurants
rather than offices, Reis said. About 137,000 jobs a month were
created in July and August, down from 182,000 monthly in the
second quarter and 207,000 a month in the first quarter. Since
the U.S. office market began to recover in mid-2011, the vacancy
rate hasn’t declined by more than 0.1 percent from the prior
quarter in any three-month period, according to Reis.  “The labor market, of paramount importance to the office
sector, has been progressively weakening through the year,”
Severino said. While stronger employment numbers probably will
be reported for September, “the results are nonetheless
disappointing.”  New York  Cities with large employers in the technology, energy and
financial-services industries had the strongest growth in office
rents and occupancies, Reis said. In the third quarter, San
Francisco, New York, San Jose and Houston had the biggest gains
in effective rents from both the prior three months and a year
earlier.  San Francisco effective rents rose 7.8 percent from a year
earlier, the nation’s biggest gain, to an average of $36.46 a
square foot, the second-highest in the U.S. Rents in New York,
the country’s priciest office market, climbed 4.6 percent from a
year earlier to an average of $50.38, Reis said.  U.S. office landlords had net occupancy gains of 6.65
million square feet (618,000 square meters) last quarter. While
that was up 45 percent from a year earlier, it was down 12
percent from the second quarter, when the total was boosted by
newly built offices that had been pre-leased, Reis said.  Office construction is rising from a record low in 2012,
when developers delivered 12.3 million square feet of space, the
smallest in Reis records going back 15 years. This year through
September, developers completed 15.2 million square feet, almost
double the 8.82 million a year earlier. In 2008, before the
industry slump, completions averaged 16.4 million square feet a
quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  