-- Uganda Holds Key Lending Rate as Inflation Uptick Seen Temporary
-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 2013-10-02T10:12:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/uganda-holds-key-lending-rate-as-inflation-uptick-seen-temporary.html
Uganda’s central bank left the
 benchmark interest rate  unchanged, after raising it last month,
saying inflationary pressures stemming from rising food prices
are temporary and may start abating by next year.  The Bank of Uganda kept the key lending rate at 12 percent,
central bank Governor Emmanuel Tumusiime-Mutebile told reporters
today in Kampala, the capital. Two of four economists in a
Bloomberg News survey predicted the decision, while the others
forecast a 50 basis-point to 1 percentage-point increase.  “Inflation has continued to edge up, largely driven by a
temporary rise of food-crop prices,” according to a monetary
policy report e-mailed today by the central bank. “In the
second half of 2013-14, food price inflation is expected to
decline somewhat owing to downward base effects and the decline
in international food commodity prices.” Uganda’s financial
year runs July through June.  The central bank in August increased its policy rate for
the first time in almost two years by 1 percentage point as
inflation quickened. Inflation in  Africa ’s biggest  coffee
exporter  accelerated to 8 percent in September, the highest in
13 months, from 7.3 percent in August after drought cut crop
supplies, pushing up food prices that have a 27 percent
weighting in the consumer-price index. Core inflation quickened
to 6.9 percent from 6.6 percent, moving further away from the 5
percent medium-term target set by the central bank.  Lending Rates  Commercial bank lending rates remain “elevated,”
according to the statement. Lending rates stood at an average 23
percent in August,  little changed  from July, according to
central bank data. Two years ago, complaints about the high cost
of living and expensive loan charges amid record interest rates
prompted protests led by the political opposition.  “The central bank is trying to ensure commercial banks
lower their prime lending rates,” Dan Edoma, an economist at
African Alliance Uganda Ltd., a Kampala-based investment bank,
said by phone. “It is, in general, looking at bringing down the
cost of financing.”  The government forecasts economic growth in Uganda may
expand by more than 6 percent in the year through June from  5.8
percent in 2012-13 because of increased infrastructure
investment and the expansion of agriculture and services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 