-- UN Estimate of Available Emissions Was Wise, Sandor Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-10-02T15:56:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/un-estimating-available-carbon-emissions-was-wise-sandor-says.html
A United Nations scientific body was
sensible to give its first estimate of the amount of greenhouse
gases that can be emitted before temperature gains exceed a
target level, according to Richard Sandor.  The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change said last
week that there is enough space in the atmosphere for 309
billion metric tons of carbon, or about 22 years of emissions,
for a chance to prevent runaway climate change. The report may
encourage nations including  China  and  India  to tackle output
more quickly, Sandor, founder of the world’s biggest carbon
trading exchange in Europe, said in a London interview.  India and China are among nations building out
environmental markets as they balance the need for economic
growth and climate protection. The European Union market,
founded in 2005, is the world’s biggest. History shows financial
markets take about 20 years to establish themselves, according
to Sandor, who helped invent interest-rate futures in  Chicago 
before founding the London-based European Climate Exchange in
2003.  “You need a certain amount of economic prosperity before
you can turn your attention to environmental issues,” Sandor
said yesterday. Carbon markets are “going to come faster than
you think.”  Carbon Budget  About 531 billion metric tons of carbon have been emitted
by burning oil, coal and gas, cutting down forests and making
cement since 1750, the IPCC said last week. Capping total
greenhouse gas output at 840 billion tons gives a 50 percent
chance of meeting the 2 degree Celsius (3.6 Fahrenheit) target,
it said in its first such estimate. In climate talks, envoys
have agreed to try to keep temperatures from rising 2 degrees to
avoid the worst heatwaves, flooding and droughts.  Global emissions in 2020 will be at least 52 billion tons
of carbon-dioxide equivalent, or 18 percent more than the 44
billion-ton limit needed to meet the 2 degree target, the UN
said in a  report on Nov. 21 .  The 309 billion tons of carbon left is equivalent to about
1.1 trillion tons of carbon dioxide. Using the UN forecast for
2020 output, that would give the atmosphere space for about 22
years of emissions.  “A budget with a reasonable chance of staying under 2
degrees would be exhausted by 2040 if we carry on as we are,”
Byrony Worthington, director of Sandbag Climate Campaign, a
London lobby group, said today by e-mail. “It means roughly
half of known fossil fuel reserves have to stay in the ground or
be fully captured and stored.”  The U.S. may introduce a cap-and-trade carbon market by
about 2020, Sandor predicted in November. He sold his exchange
to Intercontinental Exchange Inc. in 2010 in a deal valuing it
at 395 million pounds ($640 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  