-- Hungary Contests Mol CEO Warrant, Pushes INA Sale Option
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-10-02T16:04:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/hungary-vows-to-fight-mol-ceo-warrant-pushes-ina-sale-option.html
Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban’s government said it would fight a Croatian arrest warrant
against Mol Nyrt. Chief Executive Officer  Zsolt Hernadi  and told
the company to consider selling its Zagreb-based unit.  Hungary ’s government, the biggest shareholder in Mol, also
canceled Foreign Minister Janos Martonyi’s trip to the Croatian
resort of Dubrovnik tomorrow, escalating a dispute in which the
refiner is battling to keep its management rights over INA
Industrija Nafte d.d. into a diplomatic row.  Croatian police issued an arrest  warrant  against Hernadi in
connection with a corruption investigation relating to Mol’s
2009 acquisition of INA. Hungary accused Zagreb of issuing the
warrant to intimidate Mol.  Croatia  started talks with Mol last
month and is trying to reassert control over INA since
management rights went to the Hungarian company in 2009.  “These methods are unacceptable in the European Union and
Hungary can’t leave these unanswered,” Hungary’s government
said in an e-mailed statement after a cabinet meeting, citing
“the employment of tools outside of the economic realm,”
including the pursuit of Hernadi.  Mol has denied any wrongdoing tied to the 2009 case, and
the company said today an earlier Hungarian probe had found no
evidence of misdeed. Its shares dropped 1.9 percent to 15,700
forint by the end of trade in Budapest, the lowest close since
June 2012. The stock declined 12 percent year-to-date.  Urges Sale  “Croatia’s government has no influence on decisions taken
by its judicial bodies,” Croatian Prime Minister  Zoran
Milanovic ’s spokeswoman, Zinka Bardic, said by phone.
“Otherwise, we decline to comment on the statements from the
Hungarian government.”  The Adriatic country is investigating the contract that
gave Mol management control in 2009 after a court ruled the deal
corrupt and convicted former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader to a 10-year sentence for graft. Sanader is appealing.  Orban’s government asked Mol’s management today to consider
selling its INA stake to the Croatian government “or a third
party” and suing for damages, it said in the statement.  Mol owns 49.1 percent of the $7.3 billion company, and
Croatia, which complains Mol runs INA as a subsidiary rather
than an independent company, holds 44.84 percent.  Mol, in a statement today, said Hernadi can continue to
lead the company even as the warrant may keep him from traveling
abroad and be “inconvenient” for him as an individual. Hernadi
is also a member of the board of OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s
largest lender. He previously served as chairman of Hungary’s
former national airline Malev.  Officials from Croatia’s government and Mol began talks
over the management of  INA  in Zagreb on Sept. 18. They agreed to
meet once a month to discuss cost control, investment and profit
sharing, and other issues.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  