-- United Technologies Sees 5,000 Jobs at Risk in Shutdown
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2013-10-03T20:09:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/united-technologies-sees-5-000-jobs-at-risk-in-shutdown.html
United Technologies Corp. (UTX) , a supplier
of helicopters and jet engines to the U.S. military, said an
extended government shutdown would force furloughs of as many as
5,000 workers.  The first effect will be layoffs for about 2,000 Sikorsky
Aircraft employees on Oct. 7, and possibly 2,000 more at Pratt &
Whitney and UTC Aerospace Systems if the shutdown runs into next
week, the company said yesterday in a statement. It said a
shutdown into November could push the total past 5,000.  Potential cuts at Hartford, Connecticut-based United
Technologies underline federal contractors’ vulnerability as the
faceoff between President  Barack Obama  and congressional leaders
drags on. With no funding for government operations in place for
the new fiscal year that began Oct. 1, services ranging from
medical research to tax audits are on hold.  “The effects of the shutdown are relatively slow at
first,” said  Jeffrey Ladewig , associate professor of political
science at the University of  Connecticut . “The first wave are
federal employees, the second wave would be contractors and then
deeper into the economy would be the suppliers and distribution
centers that support all those companies.”  United Technologies receives about 18 percent of its
revenue from the government, Chief Financial Officer Gregory Hayes told analysts this week. Its products include Black Hawk
helicopters and engines for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter.  CEO Voices  Chief executive officers have begun chiding Obama and
congressional Republicans to end their impasse, especially with
the approaching deadline this month to increase U.S. borrowing
authority, a step required to avoid a government default.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. CEO Lloyd Blankfein told reporters
yesterday after a White House meeting with the president that
failure to act on the debt measure would imperil the economic
recovery.  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  CEO David Cote said Sept.
30 that the economy was already being put at risk from the
government shutdown.  United Technologies fell for a fifth straight day,
declining 1.2 percent to $103.69 at the close in New York.
That’s the longest streak since December, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Sikorsky Slowdown  Work on Black Hawk helicopters at Sikorsky has already been
slowed in response to the absence of government inspectors,
Hayes said. The effects on the division are “only manageable
for a short time,” Paul Jackson, a spokesman, said by e-mail
earlier this week.  The Sikorsky employees at furlough risk are in Connecticut,
Florida and  Alabama , according to a company statement yesterday.  Mandatory budget cuts known as sequestration, which call
for military spending to shrink by $500 billion over a decade,
are already taking a toll on Sikorsky’s business. The unit will
fall short of its parent’s forecast for annual sales growth
because the reductions, which began in March, have sapped demand
for spare parts, Hayes said.  Sikorsky won an $8.5 billion, five-year contract to build
Black Hawks for the U.S. military last year. Pratt & Whitney
reached an agreement with the Defense Department to manufacture
a sixth lot of 38 F-35 fighter jet engines in August. While no
value was announced, a 2012 pact for the fifth batch of 30 power
plants was valued at $1.1 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  