-- United Buoyed as Partner ANA Wins More Tokyo Haneda Access
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   C h e n
-- 2013-10-02T20:13:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/united-buoyed-as-japan-partner-ana-wins-more-tokyo-haneda-access.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , the
world’s largest carrier, stands to benefit after its Japanese
partner,  ANA Holdings Inc. (9202) , received 11 additional takeoff and
landing rights at Tokyo’s Haneda airport.  ANA, Japan’s biggest airline, was granted more of the
international slot pairs by the government than  Japan Airlines
Co. (9201) , which received five. The decision is a break from the past,
when the carriers shared international slots equally.  The slots will bolster United and ANA’s presence at Haneda,
which is favored by business travelers who will pay a premium to
land near the middle of the city. ANA and United, which is
seeking its first slot on its own at Haneda, are both members of
a global group of carriers known as the  Star Alliance .  “It’s a big win for  Star Alliance  and a big win for
United,” said  Robert Mann , an aerospace consultant at R.W. Mann
& Co. ANA’s “strong presence at Haneda could connect far more
Japanese domestic markets to the joint ventures across the
Pacific.”  United  fell  1.4 percent to close at $30.93 in  New York , and
has gained 32 percent this year. ANA dropped 0.5 percent to 216
yen in Tokyo trading and is up 19 percent this year.  ANA and United’s partnership lets the airlines coordinate
schedules and cross-sell Asia-America tickets, as well as
sharing revenue and costs.  Pacific Route  United wants its own slot at Haneda to fly between there
and San Francisco, Rahsaan Johnson, a spokesman for Chicago-based United, said today in an interview.  Last month, ANA said it should get more slots than Japan
Air, which has teamed up with AMR Corp.’s  American Airlines ,
because the government assisted Japan Air in its restructuring.
The transport ministry hasn’t given a “rational” explanation
for granting it fewer slots than ANA, Japan Air said in a
statement.  Mary Frances Fagan, a spokeswoman for American Airlines,
declined to comment on the decision. American Airlines currently
has one flight between Haneda and New York, and Fagan wouldn’t
say if the carrier is seeking more slots.  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  was left out of the initial round of
slot distribution, as the carrier doesn’t have a Japanese
partner. It must now wait for the remaining slots available to
overseas carriers to be distributed.  Delta, which currently has two nighttime flights to Haneda,
has said it wants 25 slot pairs so that the company can return
most of its flights to Haneda after being forced to move them to
 Narita Airport  in 1978.  The carrier is unlikely to be satisfied, said Mann.  “It’s understandable from a commercial strategy but seems
unrealistic from the standpoint of limited access and resources
at Haneda,” he said. “It’ll be onesies and twosies, that’s the
best they could expect.”  Anthony Black , a Delta spokesman, didn’t immediately return
phone calls and e-mails seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Chen in New York at 
 cchen509@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  