-- Uruguay Allows UPM’s Pulp Increase Output, El Pais Says
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2013-10-02T21:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/uruguay-allows-upm-s-pulp-increase-output-el-pais-says.html
Uruguay’s President Jose Mujica
allowed  UPM-Kymmene Oyj (UPM1V)  to boost production by 100,000 tons,
half of what the company had required, Montevideo-based
newspaper  El Pais  reported.  The company, whose plant is based on the Uruguay River that
borders  Argentina , will have to build a cooling tower and reduce
the the amount of phosphorus in the water the goes back into the
river, the newspaper said, citing Mujica.  Negotiations with Argentina’s government, which opposed the
increase in output, are over, Mujica said, according to the
newspaper. Argentina said it may file a complaint at the
International Court of Justice in The Hague,  Netherlands , El
Pais reported.  UPM’s $1.1 billion pulp plant was the South American
country’s biggest investment ever when it began operations in
2007. The project fueled protests by Argentine environmental
groups, who blocked bridges connecting the countries for about
four years because they said the plant would pollute the river.  “I’m going to make a decision in the middle,” Mujica said
in a Sept. 26 interview with Bloomberg in  New York . “The
decision is not simple. It’s a give and take.”  The  International Court of Justice  ruled in 2010 that
Uruguay breached procedural obligations to cooperate with
Argentina and the Administrative Commission of the Uruguay River
during the development of the pulp mill.  Uruguay didn’t breach “substantive” environmental
obligations by authorizing the construction and commissioning of
the Orion pulp mill, the United Nations court in The Hague said.  Uruguay needs to follow the procedures set in an accord
about the use of the river to approve an increase in the
company’s output, Argentina’s Foreign Ministry said Sept. 29 in
an e-mail statement.  “UPM´s interests, no matter how powerful it is, can’t
promote the violation of international rulings or accords
between sister nations,” the ministry said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  