-- Hutchison Surges to Near Six-Year High on Watson Spinoff
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-10-02T08:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/hutchison-surges-to-near-six-year-high-on-watson-spinoff.html
Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , Hong Kong
billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s biggest company, rose to a six-year
high after the  Hong Kong Economic Times  said the company may
spin off its retail arm.  Hutchison Whampoa rose 3.3 percent to HK$95.95 in Hong
Kong, the highest close since November 2007. The company may
seek to raise as much as $10 billion in the spinoff of its
health and beauty chain  A.S. Watson Group , Hong Kong Economic
Times reported today, citing unidentified people.  “If Hutchison spins off its Watson business, it may create
exceptional income for Hutchison, boost its earnings and improve
stock valuation,” said Sam Chi Yung, a strategist at Delta  Asia 
Securities Ltd. “Investors are expecting an earnings increase
for Hutchison, that’s why the shares are rising today.”  Li has stepped up investments in  Europe , buying telecom and
utilities businesses, betting growth will outpace some of his
Hong Kong assets. Asia’s richest man is planning to list his
Hong Kong electricity business and is also studying the sale of
his ParknShop supermarket chain in the former British colony.  “We do not comment on market speculation,” said Hutchison
spokesman Jeremy Lau.  A.S. Watson posted sales of HK$148.6 billion ($19.2
billion) in 2012, with earnings before interest and taxation of
HK$10 billion, according to its 2012 annual  report . The business
has more than 10,800 stores in 33 markets. Hutchison also
operates ports, hotels and provides telecommunication services.  “If Hutchison spins off Watson, people who are interested
in their retail business can invest directly,” said Sam.  Hutchison could list Watson on the city’s stock exchange
main board within the next 12 to 18 months, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in  Hong Kong  at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  