-- Vietnam Dissident Lawyer Sentenced to 30 Months in Jail
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-02T09:44:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/vietnam-dissident-lawyer-sentenced-to-30-months-in-jail.html
Vietnamese lawyer Le Quoc Quan, a
blogger critical of the Communist government, was sentenced to
30 months in jail for tax evasion during a one-day trial at the
People’s Court in Hanoi today.  Quan, who could have been sentenced to as long as seven
years in prison, plans to appeal, his lawyer, Tran Thu Nam, said
in a phone interview after the verdict. The trial was originally
scheduled to be held in July, about two weeks before Vietnamese
President Truong Tan Sang met with President  Barack Obama  in
 Washington  to discuss trade and human rights.  “The use of tax laws by Vietnamese authorities to imprison
government critics for peacefully expressing their political
views is disturbing,” the U.S. Embassy in Hanoi said in a
statement. The sentence “appears to be inconsistent with the
rights to freedom of expression and  Vietnam ’s obligations under
the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and
commitments reflected in the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights,” the embassy said.  The verdict comes after the Vietnamese government
implemented an Internet law Sept. 1 that has drawn criticism
from international Internet companies and countries including
the U.S.  “It’s political theater,” said Carlyle Thayer, an
emeritus professor at the Australian Defence Force Academy in
Canberra. “When dissidents stand up to the government, they are
intimidated, arrested and given a perfunctory trial. He can walk
out of prison and they can arrest him again.”  Quan, born in 1971, was arrested on Dec. 27 after the
British Broadcasting Corporation published an article he wrote
that criticized the government’s decision to retain part of the
constitution that guarantees the domination of the Communist
Party, according to Human Rights Watch.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
John Boudreau in Hanoi at 
 jboudreau3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
K. Oanh Ha at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net  