-- Virginia Democrats Sue Over State Voter Roll Purge
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-10-03T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/virginia-democrats-sue-over-state-s-voter-registration-purge.html
Virginia’s Democratic Party sued the
state alleging that a plan to purge about 57,000 voters from
registration lists threatens the constitutional right to vote
just weeks before the Nov. 5 election.  The lawsuit, which names Republican Governor Robert McDonnell and Attorney General  Ken Cuccinelli  as defendants,
seeks a court order barring the state’s election board and
county and city registrars from purging voters before the
November election. Cuccinelli, a Republican, is running to
replace McDonnell, who by law can’t stand for re-election.  Members of the Democratic Party of Virginia “and thousands
of other citizens will be at risk of having their  voting rights 
unlawfully stripped away through standard-less, ad hoc
determinations by county and city registrars,” according to the
complaint filed Oct. 1 in federal court in Alexandria.  Cuccinelli is running against  Terry McAuliffe , a Democratic
fundraiser and confidant of Bill and  Hillary Clinton . Virginia,
once a Republican stronghold, has become a swing state as
Democrats have begun winning presidential and U.S. senate races
in the state through a combination of demographic changes and
policy positions taken by Republicans on issues such as
immigration and abortion rights. President  Barack Obama  won the
state in last year’s election with 51 percent of the vote.  ‘Outright Lie’  Claims that Cuccinelli is actively involved in implementing
the purging campaign are “an outright lie,” Brian Gottstein, a
spokesman for the attorney general, said in an e-mailed
statement.  “Suing the attorney general is a shameless stunt, as under
the law, he is clearly not an appropriate party to the
lawsuit,” Gottstein said in the statement. “He has had no
personal communication with the state board or its legal counsel
about the subject of this lawsuit.”  Taylor Keeney, McDonnell’s press secretary, referred
inquiries on the lawsuit to Nikki Sheridan, a spokeswoman for
the state’s board of elections. Sheridan said in an e-mail that
the board is “waiting to receive the lawsuit so that it may be
reviewed.”  The state’s planned purge of voter rolls lacks uniformity,
is based on flawed lists and will unlawfully prevent thousands
of qualified voters from participating in the November election,
the  Democratic Party  said in its complaint.  Voter Crosscheck  Last year, Virginia joined the Republican-controlled
Interstate Voter Crosscheck Program, which enables states to
identify people who are registered to vote in more than one
state and remove them from registration lists, according to the
complaint. Of the 26 states in the program, 21 have Republican
legislatures, Republican governors or both, according to the
complaint.  Virginia’s board of elections identified about 57,000
voters through this program and advised county and city
registrars to use their “best judgment” if there is any
ambiguity about whether a person should be purged, according to
the complaint.  “The lists are riddled with errors and include thousands
of qualified Virginia voters,” the Democratic Party said in the
filing.  The case is Democratic Party of  Virginia  v. Virginia State
Board of Elections, 13-cv-01218, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  