-- Twitter IPO Watchers Seek User Revenue That Tops Facebook
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-10-02T14:39:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/twitter-s-revenue-per-user-is-key-for-investors-seeking-clarity.html
Investors awaiting their first peek
at Twitter Inc.’s financials will focus on one key data point:
how much the microblogging service makes from each pair of eyes.  Twitter, which said last month that it confidentially filed
for an initial share sale, will publicly disclose its prospectus
this week, according to people with knowledge of the matter.
Money managers such as Manulife Asset Management LLC and
Thornburg Investment Management Inc. want to know how good a job
Twitter is doing wringing revenue from each user -- and how it
stacks up against competitors.  The metric to beat is about $2.17 per user. That’s what
Facebook posted for the second quarter, based on company filings
as well as data from digital-media research firm  ComScore Inc. (SCOR) ,
which includes only desktop visitors.  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)  comes in at
about $1.93 per user, using the same metrics. Twitter had 181
million unique visitors in the second quarter, according to
ComScore, meaning it would need quarterly sales to be at least
$393 million to top Facebook.  “The big thing is, what is their revenue per user and
compare that to Facebook,”  Tim Cunningham , a  fund manager  at
Thornburg Investment Management, which oversees about $91
billion in assets, said by phone from  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico .
“The biggest problem with these companies is they have not
figured out a great way to monetize their users.”  Cunningham said while his fund is eyeing Twitter for a
potential investment, it’s waiting for the filing to get more
information.  Smartphones, Tablets  A big question for investors when Facebook went public last
year was the company’s ability to make money from people who
access the social network on wireless devices. Mobile
monetization is less of an issue for Twitter, which gets more
than half of its revenue from ads on smartphones and tablets,
according to EMarketer Inc., outpacing bigger competitors
including Facebook.  Jim Prosser, a spokesman for Twitter, Doug Madey, a
spokesman for LinkedIn, and Tucker Bounds, a spokesman at
Facebook, all declined to comment on the revenue per user
comparison.  Facebook, after increasing the price and number of shares,
debuted in May 2012 in the biggest IPO for a technology company.
The social network  lost  half of its value following its offering
as it struggled to profit from its growing base of mobile users.  Mobile Centric  Twitter is more “mobile-device centric,” said Michael Scanlon, managing director at Manulife Asset Management.  About 60 percent of Twitter’s active users access the site
from a mobile device at least once every month, the company said
in a  blog post  in February. At the time, twitter had 200 million
active users, according to the post.  The average revenue per user metric is how investors truly
measure the “hook” of the social media business and what
they’ll be looking at when valuing the company, he said.  Reaching second-quarter sales of $393 million would be a
stretch for Twitter, which is projected by EMarketer to post
 $582.8 million  in revenue for the full year. Twitter’s ability
to surpass its $10.5 billion private-market valuation may be
complicated if its monetization rates turn out to be much lower
than that of Facebook and LinkedIn, investors said.  If Twitter “starts to get priced to the point where the
revenue multiple is far in excess of where these other guys are
trading relative to their growth prospects, that valuation could
cause us not to buy shares,” Scanlon, who helps manage $3
billion including the  John Hancock Balanced Fund (SVBAX) , said from
 Boston .  ‘Engaged’ Users  As of yesterday, Facebook is trading at about 20 times
sales over the past 12 months, after debuting at 12 times in May
2012,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show. LinkedIn’s multiple
jumped to 22 times sales, more than triple where it started
trading two years ago. Facebook revenue per user in the second
quarter was $1.60, according to a July regulatory filing from
the company. That measure includes mobile users, and comparable
data isn’t available for Twitter.  Investors were spooked in February when Facebook forecast
average revenue per user to decline as the social network
expanded globally to areas where ad spending is lower. Unlike
Facebook and Twitter, LinkedIn generates about three-quarters of
its revenue from subscriptions and premium services.  Lou Kerner, founder of the Social Internet Fund, says at
the IPO stage, investors should focus less on Twitter’s revenue
and more on the growth rate of an engaged user base.  “I don’t care if their revenue is zero,” Kerner, who
invests in private shares of rapidly growing mobile and social
media companies, said by phone from  New York . “What’s important
is that they have an engaged user base because advertisers will
pay to reach them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  