-- Twitter Said to Be in Talks for San Francisco Office
-- B y   D a n   L e v y ,   J o n a t h a n   E r l i c h m a n   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-10-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/twitter-said-to-be-in-talks-for-san-francisco-office.html
Twitter Inc., the microblogging site
planning an initial public offering, is in talks to lease a
320,000-square-foot office adjacent to its San Francisco
headquarters, said people with knowledge of the discussions.  Twitter is the only current suitor for 1 Tenth St. in the
city’s Central Market redevelopment area, said one of the
people, who asked not to be identified because the matter is
private. The building is owned by Shorenstein Properties LLC,
also the landlord of Twitter’s current office at 1355 Market St.
No deal has been signed and the discussions could fall apart,
the person said.  Twitter, preparing to hold one of the largest technology
IPOs since  Facebook Inc. (FB) , may use some of the cash it raises to
expand and accommodate its workforce. Leasing the renovated
office at 1 Tenth St. would more than double Twitter’s current
San Francisco footprint of 295,000 square feet, according to
data from broker CBRE Group Inc.  Chief Executive Officer Dick Costolo has led a hiring spree
that’s more than tripled the company’s size to 2,000 employees,
up from 600 in early 2011, poaching top engineers and managers
from Internet rivals including Google Inc. The growth comes as
Twitter’s advertising revenue -- marketers pay for short
marketing messages to appear in users’ news feeds -- is
projected to rise 63 percent to  $950 million  next year from $583
million this year, according to EMarketer Inc.  Removing Blight  About three quarters of Twitter’s employees work from its
Market Street headquarters, a renovated 1930s furniture mart
that also houses Internet companies including online retailer
One Kings Lane Inc. The annex behind it at 1 Tenth St. was
constructed in the 1970s with a masonry cladding that’s being
stripped away and resurfaced with glass for occupancy in early
2014.  Gabriel Stricker , a spokesman for Twitter, declined to
comment. Tom McDonnell, a Shorenstein executive, also declined
to comment.  Twitter relocated to the Central Market area in June 2012,
helping to revive the blighted neighborhood and paving the way
for moves by technology firms including mobile-payments company
Square Inc. to the area.  Technology companies are leading an office trend that’s
housing more workers in less space, according to Steve Barker,
branch manager for commercial broker Studley Inc. Mobile devices
that allow business to be conducted away from a desk and online
storage of files has reduced the space requirement to about one
employee per 170 square feet, he said.  By that estimate, Twitter’s current headquarters would
accommodate about 1,735 workers and 1 Tenth St. would hold as
much as 1,882.  Average office rents in the Central Market district, on
Market Street between Fifth Street and Van Ness Avenue are about
$46 a square foot, with the best buildings including Twitter’s
art deco headquarters asking $57 a square foot, CBRE data show.
At those prices, a new lease at 1 Tenth St. could cost $15
million to $18 million annually.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Erlichman in  New York  at 
 jerlichman1@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  