-- Wolfson Shares Slump as Analysts Blame BlackBerry: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-10-02T15:54:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/wolfson-shares-slump-as-analysts-blame-blackberry-london-mover.html
Wolfson Microelectronics Plc (WLF) , a
Scottish semiconductor developer, plunged after it forecast
fourth-quarter sales that would be less than estimated by
analysts, who blamed BlackBerry Ltd. for bringing less business.  BlackBerry, the one-time smartphone leader, probably was
the buyer that Wolfson said today had called off new products,
according to analysts at Citigroup Inc., Liberum Capital Ltd.
and Numis Securities Ltd.  Wolfson  shares  fell 16 percent to 147 pence in  London , the
biggest decline since June 2011 and the lowest price since July
30 this year. It was the worst performer in the FTSE All-Share
Index, with trading volume 14 times the three-month daily
average. The stock has declined 25 percent this year.  Revenue in the final three months of the year will be $40
million to $50 million, the Edinburgh-based company said in a
statement today. That compares with the average estimate of
$58.3 million, according to three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
and sales of $56 million a year earlier.  The warning that sales would miss estimates is the second
time in little more than two months that the company, which
doesn’t name customers, has pointed to slower-than-expected
orders. Wolfson makes components for smartphones and audio
technology for consumer electronic products.  Third-quarter revenue was about $44 million, the company
said today. On July 30 it lowered its  forecast  for the period to
$40 million to $50 million, saying its expectations had
“moderated” after customers sold fewer products in the first
half than anticipated. Sales in the third quarter a year ago
were $53.1 million.  BlackBerry Buyout  BlackBerry reached a tentative agreement on Sept. 23 with
its largest investor, Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd., for a
$4.7 billion buyout to take the Canadian company private. It
sought offers after a new operating system failed to secure a
comeback.  Four days later, BlackBerry Chief Executive Officer
Thorsten Heins said he was “very disappointed” in fiscal
second-quarter results, which showed sales missing analysts’
estimates by half.  Investors should use any sell-off in Wolfson shares as a
buying opportunity as the sales forecast doesn’t materially
change Wolfson’s long-term prospects, Eoin Lambe, an analyst at
Liberum with a  buy rating  on the stock, and Nick James, an
analyst at Numis with an add recommendation, said in notes to
clients. James lowered his earnings estimates for 2013 and 2014.  Sales at its largest customer, which analysts say is
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , accounted for 35 percent of revenue in
the third quarter compared with 60 percent in the first half,
Wolfson said.  “Although we did expect the contribution of the largest
customer to decline in the third quarter, the extent of decline
suggests accelerating traction for Wolfson’s products outside
Samsung,” Citigroup analyst Amit Harchandani, who has a neutral
recommendation, said in a note to clients. It “is therefore
encouraging in our view.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  