-- Woods Paired With Kuchar for Presidents Cup Opening-Day Match
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-10-03T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/woods-paired-with-kuchar-for-presidents-cup-opening-day-match.html
Tiger Woods is paired with  Matt Kuchar  for today’s opening fourball matches at the Presidents
Cup team golf tournament.  U.S. captain  Fred Couples , who has said he wants Woods to
be the team leader, is sending  Hunter Mahan  and Brandt Snedeker
out in the first match.  Woods and Kuchar will face Argentina’s  Angel Cabrera  and
Australia’s Marc Leishman in the fifth of six fourball matches
at Muirfield Village Golf Club in Dublin, Ohio. The Presidents
Cup, which began in 1994, is a team competition between the U.S.
and an international group of non-Europeans. The Americans hold
a 7-1-1 lead in the event.  “We felt like Woods would be good in the five slot, and
that’s almost where we had him from the get-go to clean up and
hopefully get a point for us, so we had him going late in the
day,” Couples told reporters.  Kuchar will be the 19th different player Woods has been
paired with in U.S. team competitions. The international team,
captained by Zimbabwe’s Nick Price, includes seven Presidents
Cup rookies.  Mahan and Snedeker will face Australia’s Jason Day and
Canada’s Graham DeLaet to open fourball play, in which each
golfer plays his own ball with the lowest score winning the
hole.  “It’s good to be first up,” Mahan told reporters. “It’s
such a fun event, so it’s nice to not have to sit around and
watch everyone else and be able to go out and play.”  Major Winners  Bill Haas and  Webb Simpson  will face Masters Tournament
winner Adam Scott of Australia and Hideki Matsuyama of Japan in
the second match.  Phil Mickelson  and Keegan Bradley, who often
play practice rounds together during U.S. PGA Tour events, will
follow against South Africans Louis Oosthuizen and Charl Schwartzel.  Steve Stricker , 46, and Jordan Spieth, 20, are paired in
the fourth match against Ernie Els of South Africa and Brendon
de Jonge of Zimbabwe. Spieth is the first U.S. PGA Tour rookie
selected to play in the event.  “He’s going to be a mentoring figure for me,” Spieth said
of Stricker. “I think it will be a great fit.”  The final fourballs match today has PGA Championship winner
 Jason Dufner  and Zach Johnson against South Africans Brenden
Grace and Richard Sterne.  The teams tomorrow play in foursomes, or alternating shots
with the same ball. The weekend schedule will feature fourballs
in the morning of Oct. 5, followed by foursomes in the
afternoon, then 12 singles matches the next day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  