-- Worst Seen Over as Gilts Escape Back-to-Back Loss: U.K. Credit
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-10-02T12:38:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/worst-seen-over-as-gilts-escape-back-to-back-loss-u-k-credit.html
The worst is probably over for U.K.
government bonds after they avoided the first successive
quarterly decline in almost three years, according to money
managers overseeing $800 billion in assets.  An end-of-quarter rally helped gilts return 0.5 percent
between July and September,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.
They lost 3.9 percent in the second quarter, the most since
2008, and the selloff continued as investors bet the  Bank of
England  will raise  interest rates  earlier than Governor  Mark Carney  has indicated.  “We have been adding to gilt exposure as we think the
selloff was excessive,”  John Stopford , head of fixed income at
Investec Asset Management, which has $103 billion in assets,
said in an interview on Sept. 27. “There does seem to be a
genuine pickup in growth, but we doubt it will be as strong as
some surveys suggested. We are still a long way away from the
first rate increase.”  The benchmark 10-year yield will end the year at 2.77
percent, according to the weighted-average estimate in a
Bloomberg survey. It was at 2.70 percent today, 90 basis points
more than the rate on equivalent German bunds.  With the economy gaining momentum, Carney has struggled to
persuade investors that policy makers can keep the  benchmark
rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent for the next three years, as
indicated when the bank introduced forward guidance on Aug. 7.  Reinforcing Carney  The  10-year (GUKG10)  gilt yield has risen 1 percentage point over
the past six months and reached 3.05 percent on Sept. 11, the
highest since July 2011. The pound is at its strongest versus
the dollar in nine months. The  extra yield  investors demand to
hold U.K. instead of German government debt climbed above 100
basis points, or 1 percentage point, on Sept. 18 for the first
time since May 2010.  Yields have fallen 30 basis points since then, when the
 Federal Reserve  sent rates on  Treasuries (USGG10YR)  tumbling by
unexpectedly deciding to refrain from scaling back its $85
billion of monthly bond buying until it sees more signs of a
lasting improvement in the  U.S. economy .  At the same time, BOE officials from  David Miles  to Deputy
Governor  Paul Tucker  and Chief Economist Spencer Dale have
reinforced Carney in arguing it will take time for unemployment,
now at 7.7 percent, to fall to the 7 percent threshold at which
policy makers will consider raising borrowing costs. Speaking in
London yesterday, Dale said investors betting on a sharp rise in
interest rates may need to “think again.”  Surge Over  Short-sterling futures contracts maturing in December 2014
have fallen 19 basis points to 0.81 percent since Sept. 18.
Gilts outperformed U.S. Treasuries, German and Canadian bonds in
the third quarter, while they lagged behind  Japan ,  France  and
Italy.  “The surprising economic strength has contributed to the
selloff alongside the gyrations in the U.S. Treasury market,”
said Willem Sels, head of investment strategy at HSBC Private
Bank UK Ltd., which oversees $480 billion in assets. “Gilt
yields may grind higher from here, but we think the worst of the
yield surge is behind us.”  Gross domestic product  in the second quarter was 3.3
percent below its 2008 peak -- only Italy among Group of Seven
nations is further behind -- and fragility persists in some
parts of the economy.  Retail sales  fell in August, according to
government data, and an industry report yesterday showed
manufacturing unexpectedly slowed in September.  ‘Gone Beyond’  “We do recognize the improvement in the U.K. economy, which
I think have been priced in by both currency and rates, but we
believe the move has probably gone beyond what the fundamentals
suggest at present,” said Ugo Lancioni, a  money manager  in
London at Neuberger Berman Group, which oversees $214 billion in
assets. “Things can always improve further, but at the present
we see these levels as relatively attractive.”  Rate setters tasked with meeting a 2 percent inflation
target face little risk of an upsurge in consumer prices, based
on the latest quarterly survey by JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Respondents including money managers, banks and  hedge funds  see
inflation averaging 2 percent over the next 12 months compared
with a 2.2 percent estimate in March. Their inflation
expectations for the next two to five years dropped to 2.9
percent from 3.1 percent.  “We have felt that the gilt market is too far away from
the Bank of England’s forward-guidance message,” said  Sam Hill ,
a fixed-income strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in London.
“The market will be wrong to get too carried away by
speculation that rates will rise much sooner than the Bank is
indicating.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  