-- WTI Crude Rises on Planned Gulf Pipeline Completion
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-10-02T19:10:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/wti-crude-drops-amid-u-s-government-shutdown.html
West Texas Intermediate crude rose
for the first time in four days after TransCanada Corp. said it
expects to complete work on the southern portion of its Keystone
pipeline expansion by the end of October.  The spread between WTI and Brent oil, the European
benchmark, narrowed the most in two weeks on speculation that
the link will help reduce stockpiles at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the
delivery point for the WTI contract. The 700,000-barrel-a-day
pipeline will run to the Texas Gulf Coast from Cushing. Futures
extended gains after a government report showed that stockpiles
at the hub fell to the lowest level since February 2012.  “The completion of the Keystone pipeline portion is
bullish for WTI but not for the globe,” said Bill O’Grady,
chief market strategist at Confluence Investment Management in
St. Louis, which oversees $1.4 billion. “We are getting closer
to the completion of another exit route from Cushing, which will
further reduce supply pressure at the hub.”  WTI crude for November delivery rose $2.06, or 2 percent,
to $104.10 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. It was
the highest settlement since Sept. 20 and the biggest gain since
Sept. 18. The contract dropped to $102.04 yesterday, the lowest
close since July 3. The volume of all futures traded was 34
percent above the 100-day average at 3:08 p.m.  Brent oil for November settlement gained $1.25, or 1.2
percent, to end the session at $109.19 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European benchmark traded
at a $5.09 premium to WTI, down from $5.90 yesterday.  Commissioning Activities  Linefill on the new pipeline segment is expected to begin
shortly after the commissioning at the end of this month, Les
Cherwenuk, project director for  TransCanada (TRP) , said in an
interview with Bloomberg after a speech at Hart Energy’s
Executive Energy Club in Houston.  He wouldn’t comment on the crude mix, though he said that
filling the pipeline for the first time, a process forecast to
take 30 days, will be easier with lighter crude.  The middle section of Keystone is already finished and the
southern portion should be completed in the next week, Cherwenuk
said. The 195-mile (314-kilometer) link originating at Cushing
still needs to be completed, he said.  Cushing supplies  slipped 59,000 barrels to 32.8 million
last week, according to the Energy Information Administration.
Stockpiles at the hub have dropped 34 percent over the past 13
weeks as improved pipeline networks and shipments by rail eased
a North American supply glut created by rising oil production
from shale formations.  Moving Barrels  “The market is interpreting additional pipeline capacity
away from Cushing, Oklahoma, as additional demand for WTI
barrels,” said Tim Evans, an energy analyst at Citi Futures
Perspective in New York. “This does not increase refinery crude
runs or consumer fuel use. All it does is move more oil to the
Texas coast at a lower cost.”  Nationwide crude inventories surged 5.47 million barrels to
363.7 million last week, the biggest gain since April, according
to the EIA, the Energy Department’s statistical unit.  Refineries operated  at 89 percent of capacity last week,
the lowest level since June 7, the report showed. Refineries
often idle units in October for maintenance programs.  “The completion of additional pipeline capacity will
accelerate the draw in Cushing,” said Tom Finlon, Jupiter,
Florida-based director of Energy Analytics Group LLC. “The
decline is continuing even though refinery runs have decreased
the last couple weeks. The draws should continue through the
maintenance season, which is important.”  Fuel Inventories  Gasoline stockpiles rose 3.5 million barrels to 219.7
million, the report showed. Supplies of  distillate fuel , a
category that includes heating oil and diesel, declined 1.68
million barrels to 129.2 million.  Total  fuel consumption  dropped 3 percent to 18.7 million
barrels a day last week, the EIA said. Gasoline use slipped 3.6
percent to 8.53 million barrels a day, the least since May 10.  Futures dropped 0.6 percent earlier as a U.S. government
shutdown entered a second day. Congress failed to pass a budget
for the fiscal year that began yesterday, causing a partial
closing of government services and forcing 800,000 federal
workers off the job.  A partial shutdown lasting one week would probably shave
0.1 percentage point from economic growth, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg, with the
costs accelerating if the closing persists.  Shutdown Consequences  “We’re trying to assess what the longer-term consequences
of the government shutdown will be for the crude market,” said
Adam Wise, who helps manage a $6 billion oil and gas bond
portfolio as a managing director at Manulife Asset Management in
 Boston . “There’s a potential that permitting and approval of
projects will be delayed, which will be bullish in the long
term.”  Separately, the U.S. began final extraordinary measures to
avoid breaching its debt limit, and its ability to borrow will
end Oct. 17, Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. Chief Executive Officer Lloyd Blankfein left a White
House meeting with President  Barack Obama  today and said
Congress is risking the economic recovery if it doesn’t raise
the debt ceiling.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
November was 19.7 percent, down from 21.4 percent yesterday,
data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 713,653
contracts as of 3:09 p.m. It totaled 461,221 contracts
yesterday, 25 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.86 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  