-- WTI Trades Near Three-Month Low on U.S. Crude Stockpiles
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2013-10-02T12:55:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/wti-oil-drops-ninth-time-in-ten-days-as-u-s-stockpiles-increase.html
West Texas Intermediate traded near a
three-month low amid speculation about a gain in oil inventories
and concern that the U.S. government’s first shutdown in 17
years will slow economic growth and demand for crude.  Futures dropped as much as 0.6 percent, poised for the
lowest close in three months. The U.S., the world’s biggest oil
user, began halting some official operations because of a budget
stalemate yesterday. Crude stockpiles climbed by 4.55 million
barrels last week, the industry-funded American Petroleum
Institute said, while data from the Energy Information
Administration today may show supplies gained 2.5 million
barrels, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  “Oil prices are certainly getting caught in the U.S.
political crossfire,” said Nic Brown, head of commodities
research at Natixis SA in London. “Until the budget and debt
ceiling is sorted, I would expect more price volatility.” Also,
“we are now at the point where refiners are going into
maintenance, switching from summer to winter slates, so we would
expect to see a drop in demand for crude,” he said.  WTI for November delivery dropped as much as 61 cents to
$101.43 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange. It was at $102.07 as of 1:49 p.m. London
time. The contract yesterday slid 0.3 percent to $102.04, the
lowest close since July 3. The volume of all futures traded was
about 54 percent below the 100-day average.  Brent for November settlement rose by 31 cents to $108.25 a
barrel after falling as much as 50 cents, or 0.5 percent, to
$107.44 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The European benchmark was at a premium of $6.20 to
WTI, compared with $5.90 yesterday.  U.S. Shutdown  The U.S. Congress failed to pass a budget for the fiscal
year that began yesterday, causing a partial closure of
government services and forcing about 800,000 federal workers
off the job. Separately, the country began final extraordinary
measures to avoid breaching its debt limit, and its ability to
borrow will end Oct. 17, Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said.  A partial shutdown of the U.S. government lasting one week
would probably shave 0.1 percentage point from economic growth,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg, with the costs accelerating if the closure persists.
The nation accounted for 21 percent of global oil demand last
year, according to BP Plc’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  U.S. gasoline supplies rose by 3.26 million barrels last
week, the API said. The EIA report today may show  inventories 
declined by 700,000 barrels, according to the median estimate of
12 analysts in the Bloomberg survey.  Distillate Stockpiles  Distillate stockpiles, a category that includes heating oil
and diesel, shrank by 1.57 million barrels, the API said. They
are projected to decline by 1 million in the government report,
according to the survey. The EIA is the Energy Department’s
statistical arm.  Refinery utilization rates are forecast to drop to about
89.3 percent from 90.3 percent the prior week, the survey
showed. Operations had been above 90 percent since Aug. 16. The
rate reached 92.8 percent on July 12, the highest level since
July 2012.  The API in  Washington  collects supply information on a
voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and
pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed with
the EIA for its weekly survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Sherry Su in  London  at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  