-- Yellowstone-Like Supervolcanoes on Mars Suggest Huge Explosions
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-10-02T18:55:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/yellowstone-like-supervolcanoes-on-mars-suggest-huge-explosions.html
Early Mars was an explosive, fiery
place, much like early Earth, with supervolcanoes that could
eject at least 240 cubic miles (1,000 cubic kilometers) of
molten rock.  Drawing on images and data from the Mars Express and Global
Surveyor spacecrafts, scientists identified irregular craters in
an upland region in northern Mars, called Arabia Terra, that
were formed through massive explosions and subsequent collapses.
Those structures are remnants of supervolcanoes, much like the
one at  Yellowstone National Park  which has erupted multiple
times in the last 18 million years, according to  a paper  in the
journal Nature.  Supervolcano explosions on Mars may explain the fine-grained deposits discovered on the planet. Scientists had
previously suggested these materials might have come from
volcanic eruptions, though no volcanoes had been recognized in
the region until now. Knowing the nature of early, widespread
volcanic activity will also aid researchers in determining if
Mars was once habitable, the scientists wrote.  “Volcanism is the thread binding nearly every aspect of
Mars’ geologic evolution,”  Joseph Michalski , the study author
and a Mars researcher at the National History Museum in  London 
and the Planetary Institute in Tucson, Arizona, said in a
statement. “The better we understand volcanism on Mars, the
better we can understand the planet.”  On Earth, all supervolcano eruptions occurred tens of
thousands to millions of years ago,  according to  the  U.S.
Geological Survey .  Shield Volcanoes  Mars is already known to have  shield volcanoes , which are
much younger volcanoes and similar to those in  Hawaii . Olympus
Mons is the largest active volcano on Mars, and is 100 times
larger than Mauna Loa, according to the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration.  Using the size of the craters’ depressions as a guide to
how much rock was expelled, the average minimum eruptions spewed
1,100 to 1,700 cubic miles (4,600 to 7,200 cubic kilometers) of
debris.  Yellowstone ’s most-recent eruption, 640,000 years ago, was
a thousand times the size of the 1980  Mount St. Helens  eruption
in Washington state. Ash from its giant eruptions occurring
between 2.1 million and 640,0000 years ago is spread from
California to  Iowa , and from  Canada  to the Gulf of Mexico.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  