-- Yen Climbs to 5-Week High Versus Dollar on Shutdown; Euro Rises
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-10-02T12:57:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-02/yen-advances-as-u-s-shutdown-boost-safety-demand-aussie-falls.html
The yen strengthened to a five-week
high against the dollar as the partial shutdown of the U.S.
government showed no signs of ending, fueling speculation there
will be another standoff over raising the debt ceiling.  Japan’s currency rose at least 0.4 percent versus all 16 of
its major peers as an industry report showed U.S. companies
added fewer workers than economists forecast, boosting demand
for safer assets. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe unveiled a stimulus
package yesterday to offer a cushion for a sales-tax increase.
The euro strengthened against the dollar as European Central
Bank President Mario Draghi said there were signs the economy
was improving.  Australia ’s dollar declined.  “It’s really the U.S. story,” said  Derek Halpenny ,
European head of global-markets research at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  London . “Up until Abe’s speech
yesterday, the markets were a bit cautious of selling the dollar
ahead of that event. The Congress was a dollar-sell story but
the event risk in terms of the Abe speech made the markets a
little bit cautious and we’ve now had that removed.”  The yen rose 0.7 percent to 97.36 per dollar at 1:53 p.m.
London time after appreciating to 97.23, the strongest level
since Aug. 28. Japan’s currency gained 0.4 percent to 132.09 per
euro. The common currency rose 0.3 percent to $1.3568.  Extraordinary Measures  The U.S. shutdown commenced yesterday after lawmakers
failed to agree on a spending plan for the new fiscal year.
Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said the U.S. has begun using
the final extraordinary measures to avoid breaching the debt
limit, and repeated that they will be exhausted no later than
Oct. 17.  U.S. companies hired 166,000 workers last month following a
revised 159,000 increase in August that was smaller than
initially estimated, according to the ADP Research Institute in
Roseland, New Jersey. The median forecast of 40 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for an advance of 180,000.  The yen was also boosted after Abe yesterday introduced tax
breaks for companies together with a 5-trillion-yen program to
promote investment and growth.  The yen has still weakened 10 percent this year, the worst
performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro appreciated 5.7
percent and the dollar gained 2.4 percent.  Japan ’s currency will weaken to 103 per dollar by year-end,
Bank of Tokyo’s Halpenny said. The yen will trade at 102 by Dec.
31 and 105 by the middle of 2014, according to the median
estimate of forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  Italian Vote  The euro reversed an earlier decline against the dollar
after Draghi said the central bank was ready to use all
available instruments to help the region recover.  The ECB, meeting in Paris, kept its benchmark refinancing
rate at 0.5 percent as predicted by all 52 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  The euro was also boosted after Italian Prime Minister
Enrico Letta won a confidence vote in parliament today, avoiding
the need for another election.  The government had teetered on the verge of collapse after
the former premier’s decision last week to withdraw support for
the coalition, prompting Letta to call the ballot.  Australia’s currency fell versus all its 16 major peers
after reports showed the nation had a trade deficit in August
and building approvals climbed less than economists forecast.  The Aussie advanced yesterday after the Reserve Bank of
Australia kept borrowing costs unchanged.  “The economy is still going to need to do more work and
that’s where the RBA has to come into the equation with
additional interest-rate cuts,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a
currency strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in  Singapore .
“That’s got to probably weigh on Aussie-dollar sentiment.”  The Australian dollar declined 0.6 percent to 93.40 U.S.
cents after climbing to 94.35 yesterday, the strongest level
since Sept. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  