-- H.K. Should End Bourse Monopoly If LME Won, Rival Says
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2012-05-18T04:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/h-k-should-end-bourse-monopoly-if-lme-won-says-rival.html
Hong Kong  Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.,
one of three remaining bidders for the London Metal Exchange,
should lose government protections against competition if it
begins commodities trading, Hong Kong Mercantile Exchange Chief
Operating Officer William Barkshire said.  Hong Kong Exchanges, Intercontinental Exchange Inc. and CME
Group Inc. are the remaining contenders for the LME, which
handles more than 80 percent of global metals futures, after
NYSE Euronext, the biggest U.S. exchange owner, was removed from
the bidding. The Chinese bourse was overtaken as the world’s
largest  market company  by CME Group this year and is seeking to
broaden its business as the pipeline of large  initial public
offerings from the mainland slows.  “In the event that HKEx competes with others in
commodities and other asset classes either via the potential
acquisition of the LME or organic growth, it is only right that
as a condition the authorities should remove its favored nation
status,” said Barkshire, who was previously director of
strategy at the London Stock Exchange.  No other bourses or alternative venues may compete with
Hong Kong’s main public exchange without government approval,
according to the city’s Securities and Futures Ordinance. The
only approved equity platforms have been so-called dark pools,
trading venues that don’t display prices and in Hong Kong
exclude retail investors.  Chi-X Global  “We would definitely be interested in Hong Kong if Hong
Kong was interested in competition,” Tal Cohen, chief executive
officer of Chi-X Global, which operates alternative trading
venues in  Canada ,  Japan  and  Australia , said in a May 17
interview. “It’s not a reflection of our view of the Hong Kong
stock exchange as much as our view of the Hong Kong market and
the potential that that market has.”  The Securities and Futures Ordinance identifies the bourse
 operator  by name and prohibits others from operating a stock
exchange that allows the public to trade unless it is either the
main bourse or controlled by the main bourse. Hong Kong
Exchanges operates the city’s only retail share market, its
equity futures venue and the clearing company.  The Securities and Futures Ordinance doesn’t prevent others
from offering securities trading, said Scott Sapp, a spokesman
for Hong Kong Exchanges. “In principle, HKEx welcomes
competition as long as there is a level playing field,” he
said.  The bourse’s shares fell 2.8 percent to HK$107.7 as of the
midday trading break in Hong Kong, its lowest level in eight
months. They have retreated 13.2 percent this year.  Gold Futures  The Hong Kong Mercantile Exchange began trading gold
futures last May and silver contracts in July, both denominated
in U.S. dollars. Those are the only contracts available. It said
in March that it’s planning to offer gold, silver and copper
futures contracts denominated in  China ’s  yuan .  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the world’s
largest lender by market value, bought a 10 percent stake in the
Hong Kong Mercantile Exchange in December.  “HKEx effectively derives monopoly rents from the market,
for example via requirements to report transactions and use it
as a clearing and settlement venue,” Barkshire said. “This
underpins its significant profit margins and current high market
capitalization.”  Last year, the exchange’s profit margin was 74 percent, the
highest of any bourse, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Bolsa de Valores de Lima SA and ASX Ltd. are tied as the second
most profitable with 58 percent profit margins last year.  “Competition under the right conditions is good for all
market users in terms of costs, service levels and innovation,”
Barkshire said. “This should also include both the listing and
trading function of exchanges as is the case in other financial
centers which seek to compete globally.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  