-- 3i Names Investment Chief Borrows CEO, Steps Up Dividend
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-05-17T17:14:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/3i-names-investment-chief-borrows-ceo-as-asset-value-falls-1-.html
3i Group Plc (III) , Britain’s largest
publicly traded private-equity firm, promoted investment chief
Simon Borrows to run the company, boosted its dividend and said
it would distribute more cash to investors.  Borrows, 53, replaces Michael Queen as chief executive
officer, London-based 3i said in a statement today. The firm
said its net asset value dropped 21 percent from the year-
earlier period to 2.79 pounds a share at the end of March.  Borrows said 3i’s costs are “not consistent” with his
plans, which include growth for the company’s infrastructure and
debt-management businesses. 3i is under pressure from Laxey
Partners Ltd., a hedge fund that owns about 1 percent of the
company, to narrow the stock’s discount to the value of its
holdings. Queen announced his departure in March after he
struggled to boost the pace of investments and asset sales
following the credit crisis.  “It has undoubtedly been a challenging year for 3i,”
Chairman Adrian Montague said in the statement. Borrows will
“pursue a clear and concrete set of measures that he and the
board have agreed to maximize  shareholder value .”  The company will pay a full-year  dividend  of 8.1 pence a
share, up from 3.6 pence in 2011. 3i also said it plans to
distribute as much as 20 percent of its gross cash to investors
from now on through special dividends and share buybacks.  Shares Decline  3i fell  0.7 percent to 178.3 pence in  London , while the
U.K. benchmark FTSE 100 Index fell 1.2 percent. The shares have
fallen 39 percent over the past year.  Borrows became chief investment officer when he joined 3i
in October from Greenhill & Co., where he served as chairman of
the investment bank’s international unit and founded its
European operations. He assisted 3i with its 1994 initial public
offering while working at New York-based Greenhill.  “It’s clear to me which areas are capable of making a
significant contribution,” he said on a conference call with
reporters today.  The new CEO said that he plans growth for all of 3i’s
businesses, and would like to see the fastest increase within
infrastructure and debt management. 3i’s infrastructure fund
invests in electricity and water networks.  Investments, Sales  3i invested 646 million pounds ($1 billion) in the period,
10 percent less than the previous year. 3i reaped 771 million
pounds from asset sales, up from 609 million pounds the prior
year.  After 3i dropped out of the FTSE 100 in September, Queen
more than doubled the dividend to assuage shareholders, some of
whom pushed for buybacks as cash reserves swelled. 3i and other
publicly traded private-equity companies including  SVG Capital
Plc (SVI)  and Candover Investments Plc are being pressed to return
cash to investors amid a depressed environment for dealmaking
and slumping stock markets that widened the gap between the
firms’ share price and net asset value.  Queen, who became CEO in January 2009, sought to boost
profit by combining 3i’s leveraged-buyout team with its growth
capital unit and diversifying into credit with the purchase of
Mizuho Investment Management U.K. Ltd. He said he would seek to
deliver a 15 percent return on equity over any given five-year
period and reduce 3i’s historically high earnings volatility.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  