-- Ackman Proxy Win Moves Focus to Canadian Pacific Strategy
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2012-05-17T20:15:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/ackman-slate-set-for-seats-as-canadian-pacific-ceo-leaves.html
William Ackman ’s victory in a proxy
fight to replace  Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP) ’s chief executive
officer shifts investors’ focus to how fast new leadership can
deliver on the hedge-fund manager’s promise to boost returns.  “What can Bill Ackman do with it from here?” said  John Stephenson , who helps manage $2.7 billion at First Asset
Investment Management Inc., which owns Canadian Pacific shares.
“Now that he’s got his baby, he’s got to make it work and that
will be much harder.”  Investors now may have to wait at least a year and as long
as four to see significant improvements to profitability and
returns, analysts and investors said. Before today,  stock  in
 North America ’s least-efficient major railroad gained 23 percent
after Ackman said in October his Pershing Square Capital
Management LP had become the  largest investor .  The first task for Ackman and the Calgary-based railroad’s
new board is selecting a successor for CEO  Fred Green , whose
resignation was announced hours before a shareholder vote at
today’s meeting.  Green’s simultaneous withdrawal from board elections, along
with that of five other incumbents, left nine railroad nominees
along with the seven proposed by Pershing to fill the 16 seats.  ‘We Will Deliver’  A preliminary vote tally confirmed their election during a
meeting that lasted less than half an hour. Afterward, the new
board named Stephen Tobias, a director Ackman nominated and the
former operating chief of  Norfolk Southern Corp. (NSC) , as interim CEO
and appointed a search committee to fill the position
permanently.  Madeleine Paquin was named acting board chairman. John Cleghorn, who previously held the post, was among the board
members who chose not to seek another term.  The CEO the new directors select will take the helm of a
company that has lagged behind its peers on profitability
measures since Green took the top job in 2006.  While Ackman championed hiring Hunter Harrison, the 67-
year-old former CEO of rival  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR) , he
has said the board will conduct a search for the best leader.
There isn’t an “enormous number of candidates” for the
position, he said.  “Proxy contests are never fun for anyone involved, but
they’re critical to the proper functioning of the capitalist
system,” Ackman said during the meeting. “We will not make
progress overnight but we will deliver on our commitment to make
this railway one of the best railways in the world.”  ‘Take a While’  Not much will happen in the next 12 months, predicted
Robert Schulz, a professor at the University of Calgary business
school, who attended the  shareholders’ meeting   “The question is, ‘What is he going to be able to do?’”
Schulz said. “On the revenue side, he’s said they will look at
and renegotiate customer contracts, but that will take a while.
On the cost side, there isn’t much they can do right away
because there are union issues.”  The Teamsters Canada Rail Conference, which represents
5,000 conductors, trainmen, yardmen, locomotive engineers and
rail traffic controllers and has been in contract talks since
early October, plans to strike after May 22 if negotiations with
the railroad fail.  Another union leader said it will be crucial for new
leadership to improve mid- and lower-level management as well
higher ranks.  Hunter Harrison  “Now comes the time of the rebuilding,” said William Brehl, president of the Teamsters Maintenance of Way workers,
 Canadian Pacific ’s second-biggest union. “Hopefully new
management of CP Rail, the new CEO and the team he puts
together, will go through the whole company layer by layer of
management, mid-level and lower level as well.”  Harrison has said in previous interviews that if named CEO,
his first task would be to meet with employees and that he
prefers to work with the team that’s in place.  Canadian Pacific advanced 0.9 percent to C$76.51 at 4 p.m.
in Toronto, adding to the surge in the past seven months as
investors speculated Ackman would push the company to make
changes.  “It probably won’t make any major moves in the near
term,” said Scott Nicholls, a senior analyst with Bishop Rosen
& Co. in  New York .  If Harrison is named CEO, he has said he can cut Canadian
Pacific’s operating expenses to 65 percent of sales in 2015 and
that it would take him as long as 18 months to “move the
needle.”  “It will take -- assuming they get  Hunter Harrison  to run
the company, I would say three to four years,” to make
significant improvements to profits and returns, Nicholls said
by telephone. “Harrison did it at  Canadian National , but it was
done over a period of about five or six years. You don’t make
those changes overnight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  