-- Agilent Buys Dako for $2.2 Billion, Biggest Deal Ever
-- B y   V i l l e   H e i s k a n e n
-- 2012-05-17T20:25:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/agilent-to-buy-dako-cancer-diagnostics-company-for-2-2-billion.html
Agilent Technologies Inc. (A) , the maker
of scientific-testing equipment, agreed to buy Dako, a Danish
maker of cancer-diagnostics tools, for $2.2 billion in cash to
expand its life-science business.  Agilent is acquiring Dako from the Swedish private-equity
firm EQT Partners AB, the companies said in a statement today.
The purchase is the largest in Agilent’s history.  Dako ’s products complement Agilent’s existing diagnostics
offerings.  Santa Clara , California-based Agilent, which makes
measurement and testing gear used by scientists, researchers and
engineers, is expanding its medical business after reporting
slowing sales growth for four straight  quarters .  “This deal appears to make sense as Dako is considered an
attractive asset in tissue diagnostics, a market with robust
underlying fundamentals,” said Doug Schenkel, an analyst at
Cowen & Co. in  Boston , in a research report today. Agilent has
about $3.9 billion in cash outside the U.S. and may use the
funds for additional deals in life sciences and diagnostics in
other countries to avoid U.S. taxes, he said.  Agilent fell 0.3 percent to $39.63 at the close in New
York. The  stock  has declined 23 percent in the past 12 months.  ‘Life Science’  Dako, based in Glostrup,  Denmark , makes chemicals,
instruments and software used by labs and hospitals to diagnose
cancer. Founded in 1966, Dako has about 1,000 employees in more
than 80 countries, according to its  website .  “Agilent’s strategy in acquiring Dako is about
strengthening the company’s presence in life science and about
revenue growth,” Bill Sullivan, Agilent’s chief executive
officer, said in the statement.  Stockholm-based EQT, the buyout firm partly owned by the
Swedish billionaire Wallenberg family, agreed to buy Dako in
2007 for 7.25 billion Danish kroner ($1.3 billion).  Credit Suisse Securities LLC served as Agilent’s financial
adviser and Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton provided legal
assistance. EQT was advised by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Davis, Polk & Wardwell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ville Heiskanen in  New York  at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  