-- Thai GDP Contraction Probably Eased on Post-Flood Recovery
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   M i c h a e l   M u n o z
-- 2012-05-18T03:09:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/thai-gdp-contraction-eased-on-post-flood-recovery-survey-shows.html
Thailand ’s economic contraction
probably eased in the first quarter as factories resumed
production and tourists returned after the worst floods in
almost 70 years, adding scope for interest-rate increases.  Gross domestic product shrank 0.9 percent in the three
months through March from a year earlier, according to the
median of 15 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. That compares
with a 9 percent contraction in the previous quarter. The report
is due May 21 in Bangkok.  The Bank of Thailand last week raised its economic growth
forecast for 2012 to 6 percent, and Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said earlier the monetary authority will refrain
from further rate cuts because the pace of recovery is exceeding
its expectations. Honda Motor Co. on March 31 said its plant in
Ayutthaya province, which was shuttered after last year’s floods,
will now run at full capacity to meet market demand.  “Thailand’s V-shaped economy is proceeding nicely,” said
 Frederic Neumann , Hong Kong-based co-head of Asian economic
research at HSBC Holdings Plc. “Growth will be powered by
rebounding investment and industrial activities, as well as
consumption. All this comes at a cost. Inflation pressures are
inevitably rising and we expect the central bank to hike the
rate in the fourth quarter.”  The central bank left  borrowing costs  unchanged for a
second meeting on May 2, and the  International Monetary Fund 
said last week that Thailand should be ready to raise  interest
rates  and exit fiscal stimulus when the recovery strengthens.  Pare Holdings  The baht has slipped 0.8 percent against the dollar this
week. The benchmark  SET Index (SET)  fell 1.3 percent to 1,158.35 as of
10:01 a.m. local time, and is headed for its lowest close in
more than a month. Overseas investors may pare their equity
holdings “because they have been one of the biggest gainers in
the region this year,” Stock Exchange of Thailand President
Charamporn Jotikasthira said in a May 16 interview.  There are also risks stemming from  Greece ’s inability to
form a new government after an inconclusive election, which
could deepen  Europe ’s debt turmoil, adding to challenges from a
China growth slowdown and an uneven U.S. recovery.  Singapore’s government yesterday said a “disorderly” debt
default in Europe that would hurt the global economy can’t be
ruled out, even as its  gross domestic product  rose an annualized
10 percent in the last quarter from the previous three months.  Weak European demand is particularly troubling for
countries including Singapore and Thailand, where exports make
up the equivalent of half or more of gross domestic product.
Malaysia may report May 23 its first-quarter GDP growth slowed
to 4.6 percent from a year earlier, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. That compares with a 5.2
percent expansion in the previous three months.  Inflation Slowed  Thai  inflation  slowed in April to the lowest in more than
two years as state subsidies and easing food prices helped
counter rising wages and oil costs, the Commerce Ministry said
May 1. While  industrial output  and  exports  fell in March,
 consumer confidence  and business sentiment have bounced back.  “Manufacturing output, tourism and private-sector spending
all look to have risen strongly in the first quarter, reversing
the slump in the fourth quarter,” said Sukhy Ubhi, an economist
at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London .  Still, inflation risks remain because of higher wages and
oil and a faster-than-expected economic recovery, the central
bank said this month. Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra has
said she is worried about an increase in the cost of living.  Thailand’s economy, the biggest in  Southeast Asia  after
 Indonesia , probably grew 10 percent last quarter from three
months earlier, compared with a 10.7 percent contraction in the
previous period, according to the median forecast in a separate
Bloomberg survey.  -- Editors: Tony Jordan, Rina Chandran  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  