-- Albania Seeks Private Investment in Low-Carbon Energy Projects
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-05-17T13:52:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/albania-seeks-private-investment-in-low-carbon-energy-projects.html
Albania is trying to attract private
investors to its power market as it diversifies energy sources
and privatizes some of its infrastructure.  The government of the former Communist nation, which
awarded 5.2 billion euros ($6.6 billion) in wind power and
hydroelectric contracts in the past four years, will support
natural gas pipeline projects and processing plants, according
to Enno Bozdo, deputy minister for economy, trade and energy.  The Adriatic nation of about 3 million people wants to curb
reliance on hydropower, which accounts for 98 percent of its
domestic electricity production. Albania offers incentives
including tax exemptions for clean-energy activities and a
faster permitting process to attract investors, he said. Ten
licences for 1,700 megawatts of wind power have been awarded,
and 125 hydropower agreements worth 1,500 megawatts since 2008.  “Given the unpredictability of the climate conditions
especially in the last decade, there is a pressing need to
diversify,” Bozdo said by e-mail. Albania’s electricity
production decreased by 47.4 percent last year compared with
2010 because of drought, according to Albania’s Institute of
Statistics.  “The top priority of the government is security of
 energy supply ,” he said.  The nation produces about 65 percent of its own
electricity. It imports the rest, making it vulnerable to
political risks and fossil fuel prices, he said.  The government’s hydro agreements include plans with
 Austria ’s  EVN AG (EVN) ,  Norway ’s Statkraft AS and Deutsch Bank AG for
projects totaling 1.2 billion euros, he said.  Hydropower Bids  The nation plans to start the bidding process for two
further hydro plants on the Drin and Vjosa rivers this month,
after starting the procedure for a project on the river Osum.
The projects financed by public funds and private investment
total about 900 megawatts, according to Bozdo.  Albania, which applied for European Union membership in
2009, is discussing a goal of getting 39 percent of its energy
from clean power by 2020 from 29.6 percent now, Bozdo said. To
date about 40 percent of the nation’s hydro is used, Bozdo said.  The nation also boosted domestic transmission links and is
developing a power line linking Albania with both Macedonia and
 Italy . It has plans for more lines, he said.  Albania needs transmission link upgrades to support demand
in the nation, where gross domestic product grew 3.8 percent in
2010, the  highest  growth rate in southeastern  Europe , boosted by
exports of energy, according to the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  