-- AMR Merger With US Airways Inevitable, Union Expert Says
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-05-17T23:33:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/amr-merger-with-us-airways-inevitable-union-expert-tells-court.html
AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American Airlines  “is in
a corner” and has to look to a merger with  US Airways Group
Inc. (LCC)  to turn around the bankrupt airline, an expert for one of
the unions fighting planned labor cuts testified.  American’s business plan isn’t viable, and a merger would
create a network allowing it to compete better with larger
rivals, Daniel Akins, an expert for the flight attendants union,
said in U.S.  Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan.  “It’s not an option. It’s not an alternative. It’s
inevitable,” Akins said when asked about a possible merger with
 US Airways .  Akins, an airline industry economist, was testifying for
the flight attendants as the union fights AMR’s effort to cut
labor costs as part of its bankruptcy restructuring. The  Fort
Worth , Texas-based airline is seeking court approval to void
contracts with unions representing pilots, flight attendants and
mechanics.  Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways has reached contract
agreements with the unions as it pursues a combination of the
carriers. AMR and the committee representing the airline’s
unsecured creditors have agreed to “jointly explore strategic
alternatives,” the committee said in court papers.  Business Plan  The flight attendants union argues American hasn’t met its
burden for rejecting the union contract by showing the proposed
labor cuts are necessary for its bankruptcy reorganization. Its
business plan is “a placeholder” that would be replaced by a
merger later, the union said.  American’s business plan will ensure “lasting
profitability” by achieving a $3 billion annual improvement in
performance by 2017, spokesman  Bruce Hicks  said in a statement
in response to Akins’ testimony.  “With revenue improvements and cost savings called for in
the business plan, American will be able to take advantage of
growth opportunities matching demand in our strongest performing
hubs, focused on international markets,” he said.  Akins in a court filing said consolidation has hurt the
competitiveness of AMR’s network and its ability to attract
high-value customers. Consolidation is “the obvious and
preferred path” for the company, he said in the filing.  “I’ve never seen a business plan that is this bad in terms
of addressing the deficits that American faces,” Akins
testified.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan)  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  