-- Apple Said to Plan Overhaul of IPhone With Bigger Screen
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-05-17T23:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/apple-said-to-plan-overhaul-of-iphone-with-bigger-screen.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is preparing to overhaul
the look of its iPhone, three people with knowledge of the plans
said, refreshing the company’s top-selling product amid
competition from rivals such as  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)   Apple, based in Cupertino, California, has placed orders
from suppliers in Asia for screens that are bigger than the 3.5-
inch size now on the smartphone, said one of the people, who
asked not to be identified because the plans aren’t public.
Apple co-founder Steve Jobs had worked closely on the redesigned
phone before his death in October, one person said.  The design change will be Apple’s first for the iPhone
since 2010, when it introduced the iPhone 4. Electronics makers,
led by Samsung, are moving toward bigger screens, as consumers
use handheld devices for a broader array of tasks, including
watching video, playing games and browsing the Web.  Apple is girding against competition from rivals such as
Samsung, which have made  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android the most widely
used smartphone software. Samsung regained the lead in
smartphones in the first quarter using screens of many sizes.  A new iPhone could be released by October,  analysts  have
predicted. Apple has been working on the new device since before
the current iPhone 4S model was introduced last October, said
one person with knowledge of the project. Jobs, who had gone on
medical leave from Apple starting last January, played a key
role in developing the phone, this person said.  Natalie Kerris , a spokeswoman for Apple, declined to
comment.  Popular Product  The iPhone, introduced in  2007 , is Apple’s most-popular
product, accounting for 58 percent of its sales in the fiscal
second quarter. The product, along with the 2010 debut of the
iPad, has helped catapult Apple past  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  to be the
world’s most valuable company. Since Jobs unveiled the iPhone,
the company’s stock has risen more than fivefold.  Apple fell 2.9 percent to $530.12 at the close yesterday in
 New York . The shares have risen 31 percent this year.  The Wall Street Journal reported earlier this week that
Apple would be adding a 4-inch screen. The company is working
with several screen makers on the new iPhone, including  LG
Display Co. (034220) ,  Sharp Corp. (6753)  and  Japan Display Inc. , the Journal
reported, citing people familiar with the plans. Production
could begin as early as next month, the report said.  Apple’s rivals have been introducing devices with bigger
screens than the iPhone. Samsung sells at least 13 smartphones
with screens ranging from 2.8 inches on the Replenish to 5.3
inches on the Galaxy Note.  HTC Corp. (2498) ’s  One X  has a 4.7-inch
screen. Apple, which has always favored a limited number of
models, offers only a 3.5-inch display on the iPhone.  Faster Wireless Network  Piper Jaffray Cos.,  Barclays Capital  and Sterne Agee &
Leach Inc. are among securities firms that have predicted Apple
would introduce a new iPhone in the fall.  In addition to the larger screen, analysts including  Gene Munster  at Piper Jaffray have predicted the next iPhone will be
compatible with the new wireless networks being built by
carriers including  AT&T Inc. (T)  and Verizon Wireless. The new iPad
released earlier this year works on those networks.  What’s unclear is whether the screen size change means the
device will be bigger or the screen will take up more space on
the front -- with the iPhone keeping the same general dimensions
it has had since 2007. A 4-inch screen, measured diagonally, can
fit on the face of the iPhone with the current dimensions.  Speculation that Apple is planning a new iPhone can lead to
a drop in sales of current models. In the company’s fourth
quarter, Apple reported sales and profit that missed analysts’
estimates as customers waited for the iPhone 4S to be
introduced. In April, Apple predicted sales and profit in the
current quarter would decline compared to last quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  