-- Apple Loses Favor With Hedge Funds SAC Capital, Viking
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-05-17T20:33:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/apple-loses-favor-with-hedge-funds-sac-capital-viking.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP and Viking
Global Investors LP were among  hedge funds  that sold a net 6.1
million shares of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  last quarter, taking advantage of
the 48 percent jump in the iPhone maker’s stock.  Hedge funds accounted for more than a third of the 15.2
million net  Apple shares  that were sold by endowments, banks,
insurance companies and other investors during the first
quarter, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg, which was
aggregated from regulatory filings. Even so, Apple remains hedge
funds’ most valuable holding. As a group they controlled 37.8
million shares as of March 31.  “Apple has always been a hedge-fund favorite,” said
Michael Binger, a senior portfolio manager at Gradient
Investments LLC in Shoreview,  Minnesota , which oversees about
$225 million, including Apple shares. “You’re seeing some
locking in of profits.”  Hedge-fund trades are closely followed by investors looking
for clues on where the market is headed. Based on Apple’s price
of $599.55 on March 30, the last business day of the quarter,
sales by hedge funds had a market value of $3.66 billion. The
last time hedge funds were net sellers of Apple shares was in
the first quarter of 2011, when they dumped 7.25 million shares.  Meanwhile, hedge funds boosted their holdings in two of
Apple’s rivals, buying a net 9.25 million shares of  Microsoft (MSFT) 
Corp. and a net 3.39 million shares of Google Inc. in the first
quarter, according to the data.  Cupertino, California-based Apple surged in the first three
months of the year after one of the best quarterly reports in
corporate history, as holiday shoppers bought record numbers of
iPhones and iPads.  Second-Quarter Drop  Before today, the shares had tumbled 8.9 percent since
April 1 amid concern that iPad demand will slow and iPhone sales
may slump before the release of a new model later this year,
said Shaw Wu, an analyst with Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in
 Woodland Hills ,  California .  Apple fell 2.9 percent to $530.12 at the close in  New York .  Not all hedge funds were net sellers.  David Einhorn , co-
founder of Greenlight Capital Inc., said Apple shares deserve to
be higher.  “Apple is the most misunderstood company in the market,”
Einhorn said yesterday at the  Sohn Investment Conferenc e in New
York. “Apple is still penetrating the market and gaining
share.”  Greenlight held on to its 1.46 million shares last quarter,
according to Bloomberg data.  Steve Cohen ’s SAC Capital and Andreas Halvorsen’s Viking
Global each sold more than 1 million shares of Apple in the
first quarter, representing almost their entire stakes.  Windows 8, Xbox  Viking Global bought a net 1.05 million shares of  Mountain
View , California-based Google during the quarter, data show. The
company’s Android operating system powers smartphones made by
Samsung Electronics Co. and HTC Corp. that compete against the
iPhone, the source of more than half of Apple’s  revenue .  Google (GOOG) ,
the largest Web-search provider, lost 0.7 percent last quarter.  Microsoft, the world’s biggest software maker, jumped 24
percent last quarter, its best return since the three months to
June 30, 2009. Investors are betting that the Redmond,
Washington-based company will get a sales boost from the Windows
8 operating system, to be released later this year, that’s
designed to work seamlessly between personal computers and
mobile devices.  The company’s Xbox, the world’s top-selling video-game
console, has also become a hub for new media products it’s
introducing.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC, and Eric Komitee,
Viking Global’s spokesman, both declined to comment on the
filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  