-- Argentine Quarterly Capital Flight Slows on Fernandez’s Steps
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2012-05-18T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/argentine-capital-flight-slowed-in-first-quarter-from-fourth.html
Argentine capital flight slowed in
the first quarter after President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner 
tightened controls over the foreign exchange market and forced
companies to bring money into the country.  Investors withdrew $1.6 billion from  South America ’s
second-biggest economy in the January-through-March period
compared with $3.3 billion in the final three months of 2011,
the central bank said yesterday in an e-mail report. Argentines
pulled $21.5 billion out of the country last year, almost double
2010’s $11.4 billion.  Since her re-election in October, Fernandez has ordered
energy producers and miners to repatriate export revenue, told
insurance companies to bring money invested abroad into the
country and boosted restrictions on imports. The president also
required all purchases of foreign currency to be authorized by
the federal tax agency. The controls are driving up the dollar
in an unregulated market, where the premium over the official
rate has widened to 33 percent from 8.5 percent on Dec. 30.  “The solution to this situation is to generate confidence
and all these administrative controls turn against it,” said
Claudio Loser, a former head of Western Hemisphere Affairs at
the International Monetary Fund. “The gap between the official
 exchange rate  and the unregulated rate shows that people are
still taking money out.”  The peso fell 0.1 percent yesterday to 4.4513 per dollar.
In the so-called blue chip market, where investors buy
securities locally in pesos and sell them for dollars abroad,
the peso strengthened 1.7 percent to 5.8579 per dollar from May
16’s record 5.9281.  Inflation, Perception  Annual inflation that economists estimate at about 23
percent has fueled speculation the government will have to allow
the currency to weaken faster to help manufacturers  compete
with foreign producers.  In  Brazil ,  Argentina ’s biggest trade partner, the real
slumped 20 percent over the past 12 months while the peso
weakened 8 percent. The government, whose inflation data is
questioned by the  International Monetary Fund , says prices rose
 in April  from a year earlier.  Fernandez’s measure have helped the central bank build
 reserves  to $47.6 billion yesterday from as low as $44.7 billion
in December.  “These measures may work in the short term but not in the
long term because they attack the effect and not the cause,”
said Maximiliano Castillo, a former manager at the central bank
who now runs ACM Consultores in Buenos Aires. “Right or wrong,
people consider that dollars are cheap and try to buy them. They
save in that currency because they believe that the peso is
losing value.”  Debt, Trade  Fernandez uses central bank foreign currency holdings to
help service the nation’s foreign debt. This year, she plans to
tap about $5.7 billion of reserves to pay creditors, according
to the 2012 budget.  The government used $6.6 billion of reserves in 2010 and
$7.5 billion in 2011 to make debt payments.  Fernandez’s controls also aim at stemming a narrowing trade
surplus, which fell to $10.3 billion last year from $11.6
billion in 2010 as imports rose 31 percent and exports increased
24 percent.  As a result of the restrictions, which include gaining
authorization from the tax authorities before purchasing goods
to bring into the country, imports were unchanged in the first
quarter of this year while exports rose 8 percent, according to
the national statistics agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  