-- Dollar Falls as Fed Signals Easing; Oil, Gold Rebound
-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-05-17T03:59:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/asian-stocks-oil-yen-fall-on-greek-talks-japan-orders.html
The dollar retreated from a four-
month high against the euro, while gold rose after Federal
Reserve policy makers said more monetary easing may be needed.
Oil climbed from a six-month low and Asian stocks gained after
better-than-estimated economic data in Japan and Singapore.  The dollar fell 0.2 percent to $1.2744 per euro as of 12:26
p.m. in  Tokyo , weakening against 15 of 16 major counterparts.
The Australian dollar strengthened 0.2 percent. Crude oil in  New
York  rose 0.4 percent to $93.16 a barrel, gold climbed 0.4
percent and copper gained 0.7 percent. The MSCI Asia Pacific
 Index (MXAP)  added 0.2 percent and Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures
rose 0.4 percent.  Minutes from the last Federal Reserve meeting showed some
policy makers said further easing may be needed should the  U.S.
economy  slow. Industrial output in the U.S. rose last month at
the fastest pace since December 2010 and Japan’s  gross domestic
product  grew an annualized 4.1 percent in the first quarter,
official figures show. Singapore’s non-oil domestic exports
increased 8.3 percent from a year earlier in April.  “The Fed is giving a signal to the market that there’s no
need for panic, by assuring it will do something before things
get really bad,” saidKoji Toda, chief  fund manager  at Resona
Bank Ltd. in Tokyo, which oversees about $68 billion. “Stocks
have fallen too quickly recently. They’re at a level we should
buy once we see some signs of improvement in  Europe .”  Greek Elections  More than $3 trillion of global stock market value has been
erased this month as concern Greece will exit the euro curbed
demand for riskier assets and economic data from China missed
estimates. Greece will schedule fresh elections today after
political leaders, split over austerity measures tied to a
European Union-led bailout, failed to form a coalition
government following a May 6 vote.  The Dollar Index (DXY) , a measure of the currency against six
major peers, lost 0.1 percent, snapping a record 13-day rally. A
weaker U.S. currency increases the appeal of commodities as
alternative assets.  Copper in London gained 0.8 percent to $7,710 a metric ton,
rebounding from the lowest level in four months yesterday, as
technical signals indicated the metal was oversold. Zinc climbed
0.8 percent and lead rose 0.5 percent. Wheat in Chicago jumped
1.1 percent and silver increased 1.2 percent.  Intervention Risk  South Korea ’s won, Malaysia’s ringgit and the  Thai baht 
rebounded from their weakest levels since January, while
Indonesia’s rupiah climbed from a three-month low.  South Korea has enough foreign reserves to cope with the
Greek crisis and will take “prompt” action on markets if
needed, Vice Finance Minister Shin Je Yoon said today. Bank
 Indonesia  doesn’t want the rupiah to weaken too fast and will
continue to intervene in the currency market, Deputy Governor
Hartadi Sarwono said yesterday.  The Australian and New Zealand dollars rebounded from five-
month lows amid speculation recent declines were excessive.
Australia’s currency rose to 99.42 U.S. cents from 99.14
yesterday, while New Zealand’s rose 0.2 percent to 76.61.  “The Australian and New Zealand dollars have fallen too
rapidly and we’re seeing some buying back in these currencies,”
said Junichi Ishikawa, an analyst in Tokyo at IG Markets
Securities Ltd. “Further stimulus from the Fed will be positive
for the stocks and commodity markets.”  Stocks Rebound  About twice as many stocks rose as fell in the MSCI Asia
Pacific  index . The gauge has fallen 11 percent since reaching
its 2012 high on Feb. 29 and is now up just 0.5 percent for the
year. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index rallied 0.5 percent today,
South Korea’s Kospi rose 0.4 percent and Taiwan’s  Taiex (TWSE)  gained
1.3 percent. Japan’s  Nikkei (NKY)  225 Stock Average was little
changed.  Korea Gas Corp. (036460) , the world’s biggest liquefied natural gas
importer, jumped 5.9 percent in Seoul trading after its Italian
partner reported more gas discoveries in Mozambique.  Li & Fung
Ltd. (494) , a supplier of toys and clothes to  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) 
that gets 60 percent of sales in the U.S., advanced 1.8 percent.  Treasuries fell, sending 10-year yields up two basis points
to 1.78 percent, before the U.S. sells $13 billion of inflation-
protected notes today. The rate slid to 1.75 percent yesterday,
approaching the all-time low of 1.67 percent.  The cost of insuring Asia-Pacific bonds from default
decreased, according to traders of credit-default swaps. The
Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade borrowers
outside Japan decreased one basis point to 195, Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc prices show. The index is poised to fall for
the first time in five business days, after rising to as much as
196.3 yesterday, its highest since Jan. 18, CMA prices show. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in  Hong Kong  at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  