-- Asian Stocks Rise on Japan Growth, Fed Stimulus Optimism
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-05-17T11:03:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/asian-stocks-swing-between-gains-losses-on-japan-greece.html
Asian  stocks  rose, with the regional
gauge poised to end a six-day losing streak, as faster-than-
estimated economic growth in Japan and optimism the  Federal
Reserve  will do more to stimulate the  U.S. economy  outweighed
concern Greece’s debt crisis is worsening.  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , a supplier for Wal-Mart Stores Inc., rose
1.8 percent.  Korea Gas Corp. (036460)  jumped 6.4 percent in Seoul after a
gas discovery in Mozambique. Toshiba Corp., the maker of Regza
brand televisions, gained 5.6 percent in  Tokyo  after saying it
will stop television production in Japan.  Toll Holdings Ltd. (TOL) , an
Australian trucking company, slid 6.8 percent, extending
yesterday’s losses after forecasting lower full-year profit.  “We may see a huge buy-back if we see some end to Europe’s
political turmoil and people realize that stocks in Asia are
cheap given their strong economies,” said Koji Toda, chief  fund
manager  at Resona Bank Ltd. in Tokyo, which oversees about $68
billion. “The Fed is giving a signal to the market that there’s
no need for panic, by assuring it will do something before
things get really bad.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  rose 0.6 percent to 114.97 as
of 7:59 p.m. in Tokyo, after falling as much as 0.2 percent.
More than twice as many stocks rose as fell on the measure,
which yesterday closed more than 10 percent below its Feb. 29
high, a retreat some traders call a correction.  Concern about Europe’s crisis drove the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index down for the past six days, dragging the gauge to its
lowest level since Jan. 2, as markets in South Korea and Hong
Kong entered a so-called correction from their recent highs. The
 European Central Bank  said it will temporarily stop lending to
some Greek banks to limit its risk as President Mario Draghi
signaled the ECB won’t compromise on key principles to keep
Greece in the euro area.  Japanese Growth  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 0.9 percent after the
Cabinet Office reported the nation’s economy grew an annualized
4.1 percent in the first quarter, exceeding the 3.5 percent
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index declined 0.2 percent and
South Korea’s Kospi Index rose 0.3 percent.  Hong Kong ’s Hang
Seng Index fell 0.3 percent, reversing an advance of as much as
1 percent.  Singapore’s Straits Times Index slid 0.3 percent. A
government report showed gross domestic product rose an
annualized 10 percent in the three months through March 31 from
the previous quarter.  Fed Minutes  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index is about 1 percent away from
erasing this year’s gains. That compares with a 5.3 percent
increase by the  S&P 500  and a drop of less than 1 percent for
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the Asian benchmark are
valued at 11.7 times estimated earnings on average, compared
with a multiple of 12.6 for the S&P 500 and 10.1 times for the
Stoxx 600.  The uncertainty in  Greece  “seems likely to confine equity
markets to several weeks of nervous limbo,” said  Michael Kurtz ,
head of global equity strategy at Nomura Holdings Inc., Japan’s
largest brokerage. “We will look back on this juncture as an
extraordinary buying opportunity even if events ultimately
conspire to eject Greece from the euro.”  In the U.S., several Federal Reserve policy makers said a
loss of momentum in growth or increased risks to their economic
outlook could warrant additional action to keep the recovery
going, minutes of their last meeting showed.  Li & Fung gained 1.8 percent to HK$14.44 in Hong Kong,
while Techtronic Industries Co., maker of Ryobi power tools and
Hoover vacuum cleaners, advanced 2.3 percent to HK$8.82.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rose 0.1 percent
today. The index slipped 0.4 percent in  New York  yesterday as
concern that Greece’s debt crisis is worsening offset better-
than-estimated reports on U.S. housing starts and industrial
production.  Gas Discovery  Korea Gas rose 6.4 percent to 45,100 won in Seoul after its
Italian partner Eni SpA reported it discovered more gas than
previously estimated in a field off Mozambique, citing the
company.  Toshiba rose 5.6 percent to 322 yen in Tokyo. The company
halted output at its sole domestic TV factory in Saitama, north
of Tokyo, sometime in the year ended March 31, a spokesman,
Atsushi Ido, said by phone today.  “It’s the right strategy,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who
oversees about $600 million at Ichiyoshi Investment Management
Co. in Tokyo. “The company should just abandon overseas TV
production altogether and have them built by Chinese or
Taiwanese companies.”  Link REIT (823) , a shopping-center operator in Hong Kong, dropped
4.4 percent to HK$29.35 after a report an investor is selling as
much as HK$1.98 billion ($255 million) of its shares.  Toll Holdings slid 6.8 percent to A$4.41 in Sydney. It
tumbled 15 percent yesterday after saying earnings before
interest and tax will lower in the 12 months ending June from
the previous year. The stock’s rating was cut to hold from buy
at Deutsche Bank AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  