-- Aussie, N.Z. Dollars Rise on Bets Recent Losses Excessive
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-05-17T06:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/aussie-n-z-dollars-rise-on-bets-recent-losses-excessive.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars rebounded from five-month lows amid speculation their
recent declines were excessive.  The currencies rose versus the majority of their peers as
Asian stocks headed for their first advance in seven days on
prospects the  Federal Reserve  will ease policy further to spur
growth. Gains in the so-called Aussie and kiwi were limited as
Greece prepares for a second election with the nation’s future
in the euro bloc and an international bailout at stake.  “The Australian and New Zealand dollars have fallen too
rapidly and we’re seeing some buying back in these currencies,”
said Junichi Ishikawa, an analyst in  Tokyo  at IG Markets
Securities Ltd. “Further stimulus from the Fed will be positive
for the stocks and commodity markets, and thus for the
currencies like the Aussie and kiwi.”  Australia’s dollar rallied 0.4 percent to 99.53 U.S. cents
at 3:32 p.m. in Sydney from the close in  New York  yesterday,
when it fell to 98.71, the weakest since Dec. 15. The currency
bought 79.89 yen from 79.64. The New Zealand dollar rose 0.4
percent to 76.74 U.S. cents, after sliding to 76.24 yesterday,
the least since Dec. 20. It advanced 0.3 percent to 61.59 yen.  The Australian dollar’s 14-day relative strength index
against its U.S. counterpart was 26 yesterday, below the 30
level that some traders see as signaling an asset may reverse
declines. The gauge for New Zealand’s currency fell to 20.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of stocks advanced 1 percent.  FOMC Minutes  A loss of momentum in U.S. growth or increased risks to
their economic outlook could warrant additional action to keep
the recovery on track, several Fed policy makers said, according
to minutes of the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s April 24-25
meeting released yesterday in  Washington .  Yields on Australia’s  benchmark 10-year notes  added five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 3.28 percent today,
after touching a record low of 3.201 percent on May 15. Three-
year yields also rose five basis points today to 2.61 percent.  Gains in the South Pacific nation currencies were limited
after the  European Central Bank  said yesterday it will
temporarily stop lending to some Greek banks to contain its
risk.  The move comes after ECB President  Mario Draghi 
acknowledged for the first time that Greece could leave the
monetary union. While the bank’s “strong preference” is that
Greece stays in the 17-nation euro area, the ECB will continue
to preserve “the integrity of our balance sheet,” he said in a
speech in  Frankfurt  yesterday.  Greek Election  Greece faces a fresh election on June 17 that may boost
parties opposed to the conditions of its international bailouts,
raising the specter of its exit.  “The markets are looking at a complete reversal of all the
plans put in place towards the end of last year” in  Europe ,
said Kara Ordway, a currency strategist at City Index Asia
Pacific in Sydney. Greece’s possible exit from the euro is
“really dragging the market. If this environment continues,
certainly the Aussie and kiwi will go lower,” Ordway said.  The New Zealand dollar has weakened 5.4 percent in the past
three months, making it the worst performer, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes which track 10 developed-
nation currencies.  Australia ’s currency depreciated 4.5 percent,
the second-worst performer.  -- Editors: Naoto Hosoda, Ken McCallum  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  