-- Automakers Say ‘Google It’ to U.S. Distraction Guidelines
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-05-17T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/automakers-say-google-it-to-u-s-distraction-guidelines.html
Drivers, start your cars and fire up
your Wi-Fi. And please don’t crash while tweeting or making
dinner reservations on the interstate.  That’s the message from automakers that want to sell lots
of vehicles enabled for Wi-Fi, Facebook and Twitter and drown
out critics warning of a catastrophe on the nation’s roads as
driver distractions proliferate.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi brand calls itself the first luxury
carmaker to offer in-vehicle access to Wi-Fi and Google Earth.
“Google it,” it’s telling customers in advertisements if they
want to know more. Nissan Motor Co.,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  are embracing in-car systems that access Google,
Facebook and Twitter.  “If the auto manufacturers focused as much on safety as
they do on marketing their products, we would save a lot of
lives,” National Transportation Safety Board Chairman  Deborah Hersman , who advocates a ban on in-car mobile phone use even
with hands-free devices, said in an interview.  These Web-enabled cars are hitting showrooms as U.S.
Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood pushes guidelines, on which
comments are due tomorrow, to quell in-dash distractions behind
the wheel. The guidelines recommend that no task for drivers
take longer than two seconds and that cars be stopped and in
park before users can enter navigation commands or use social
networking sites such as Facebook and Twitter.  Eyes on Road  The guidelines stop short of recommending limits on
devices. That has allowed automakers to praise LaHood’s intent
to protect drivers while adding and marketing what critics say
are potentially distracting features.  LaHood still said this week that automakers must ensure
drivers’ eyes stay on the road.  “When you’re behind the wheel of a car, anything that
takes your eyes off the road or your hands off the wheel can be
deadly,” he said in an e-mailed statement. “We don’t have to
choose between safety and technology, but while these devices
may offer consumers new tools and features, automakers have a
responsibility to ensure they don’t divert a driver’s attention
away from the road.”  LaHood praised Subaru, a unit of  Fuji Heavy Industries
Ltd. (7270) , and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  after they made television
commercials urging people not to use mobile phones while
driving.  MyFord Touch  The stakes are high. In 2010, 3,092 people, or 9.4 percent
of road fatalities, were killed in crashes related to driver
distraction, according to the National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration. The National Safety Council, an Itasca,
Illinois-based advocacy group, said the number is “considerably
higher” because not all crashes involving driver distraction
are counted. The council estimates mobile phone use is a cause
in about 24 percent of crashes.  Companies say they are striving to ensure their electronics
are easy to use and that their cars remain safe for drivers.
Ford, whose MyFord Touch and MyLincoln Touch infotainment
systems were panned by Consumer Reports magazine in February for
being too hard to use, said it’s devising more ways of bringing
Facebook into its cars.  “Our engineers have also been working with Facebook
engineers to develop unique and safer ways of integrating the
car experience with Facebook,” Jay Cooney, a Ford spokesman,
said in an e-mailed statement.  Voice Recognition  The Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, whose members
include BMW and Volkswagen, points to its own distraction
guidelines published in 2002 and updated in 2006 as evidence
that it’s responding to LaHood’s concerns. The guidelines
specify limits on how long a driver’s eyes may be averted from
the road to accomplish a task in the vehicle such as entering an
address in a global positioning system.  Voice recognition is part of the solution, GM Chief
Executive Officer Dan Akerson said on May 14 in an interview at
Bloomberg headquarters in New York.  The new Cadillac User Experience, which will be in the XTS
sedan, will have an iPad-like feel and take some initial steps
into voice control features that will grow over time, Akerson
said.  “When you look at the average car, and we’re guilty of it
and so are all of our competitors, you’ve got too many
buttons,” Akerson said.  Manufacturers are developing systems designed to keep
drivers’ eyes on the road and hands on steering wheels, said
 Wade Newton , a spokesman for the Washington-based Alliance.  ’Ravenous Appetite’  Drivers will keep using electronic devices, he said.  “They’re going to do those things whether it’s through the
vehicle or through a handheld electronic that they bring with
them in the car, and those are devices that were never designed
to be used while in an auto,” Newton said.  When automakers include such options in cars and regulators
allow it, there’s a tacit message that they’re safe to use, said
Rob Reynolds, executive director of  FocusDriven , an anti-distracted driving group.  “They only serve to feed an already ravenous appetite for
distracted driving,” Reynolds said in an interview. “It’s like
putting a filter on a very large cigarette and giving people the
impression that it might make smoking that cigarette safe.”  The automakers’ focus on hands-free devices diverts from
the point that any in-dash technology may be distracting, said
John Ulczycki, group vice president at the National Safety
Council.  No Hands-Free  “And now they’ve got things with Internet connectivity
where you can make your phone into a wireless router and you can
watch videos,” said Ulczycki, who testified on behalf of his
organization at a hearing on LaHood’s distracted driving
guidelines.  “It’s just crazy all the things that they’re enabling
people to do in their car,” he said. “It’s very concerning.”  The Safety Council called for banning all phone use,
including hands-free, in January 2009, almost three years before
Hersman did. The NTSB, an independent agency that makes safety
recommendations, hasn’t taken a position on in-dash systems or
global-positioning devices.  The back and forth between the regulator and the regulated
echoes earlier auto-safety campaigns, for seat belts and air
bags, said  Henry Jasny , general counsel for Advocates for
Highway and Auto Safety.  “It took a long time to get the political motivation and
the manufacturers behind putting seat belts in vehicles,” said
Jasny, who has worked in auto-safety advocacy for 25 years.  While safety groups have been talking about distracted
driving since the 1990s, when phones began to proliferate in
cars, LaHood made the issue U.S. government policy by holding
two forums and numerous press conferences since he assumed his
post in 2009. He’s created a video series called  “Faces of
Distracted Driving”  featuring families who have lost a loved
one to distracted driving crashes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  