-- Aviva May Exit Underperforming Units While Looking for CEO
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-05-17T16:02:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/aviva-may-exit-underperforming-units-while-searching-for-ceo.html
Aviva Plc (AV/) , the U.K.’s second-biggest
insurer by market value, said it may sell underperforming units
while it takes the rest of this year to find a replacement for
ousted Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Moss .  “As far as you’re concerned I’m the CEO,” Executive
Deputy Chairman McFarlane said in response to a reporter’s
question about whether the review would pre-empt changes made by
a new CEO. “If you’re suggesting, which I would regard as
naïve, that the thing to do is not do anything just in case if
we get a CEO down the road. That’s clearly ludicrous.”  Aviva is looking internally and externally to replace CEOMoss, who stepped down this month after an investor rebellion
over the company’s pay. The insurer’s stock dropped 60 percent
in the five years of his leadership after attempting a European
growth strategy in 2009 and subsequently having its capital
reserves eroded by the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  McFarlane said his review will go “much deeper” than
Moss’s study in 2010, when he decided to focus on 12 core
markets out of around 30 the insurer operated in. The company
will identify underperforming businesses within its 45 main
“profit centers” and either turn them around or “realize
they’re not part of the future,” he said.  U.S. Sale?  “The U.S. and potentially small parts of the group could
be on the cards” for a sale, said  Marcus Barnard , a London-
based analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd. with a hold rating on the
stock. “Depressed valuations means that exits will probably be
difficult and where possible, are likely to be dilutive.”  The review, which will be unveiled to  shareholders  in July,
won’t affect the appointment of a CEO and whoever does get the
job will be able to influence strategy, McFarlane said.  Aviva  declined  4.7 percent to 267.7 pence in London, giving
the company a market value of 7.8 billion pounds ($12.3
billion).  Shareholders are most concerned about the company’s capital
position and its volatility, said McFarlane, former CEO of
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  Aviva’s capital
surplus shrank by about 30 percent in the third quarter of last
year as the euro area crisis worsened. It increased to 3.2
billion pounds at March 31 this year, compared with 2.2 billion
pounds at the end of 2011, Aviva said today.  Capital Increase  “The current level of capital is acceptable but it doesn’t
give us a lot of financial flexibility,” McFarlane said. “We
need to increase from where we are today.”  The firm’s dividend is “modest” compared to its total
capital base and it plans to concentrate on generating
“economic capital” from its existing businesses, he said.  Aviva’s first-quarter sales of life insurance and pensions
dropped 7 percent to 6.52 billion pounds in the three months to
March 31 as the  European debt crisis  hurt savers, the company
said in the statement. That missed the 6.68 billion-pound
estimate of Toby Langley of  Barclays Capital , the top-ranked
Aviva analyst tracking Aviva, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Given the subdued demand for savings products in these
markets, I would not expect conditions or new business sales to
improve there in the near term,” Chief Financial Officer Pat Regan said on the call, referring to  Europe .  More than half of Aviva’s shareholders rejected the firm’s
compensation plans at its annual general meeting this month. It
was only the fourth time since 2003 a  FTSE 100 (UKX)  company lost a
vote on compensation, according to Manifest Information Services
Ltd., a proxy voting firm. Moss will receive as much as 1.75
million pounds when he leaves the firm, Aviva said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in  London  at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  