-- Tax Code Overhaul Must Be Made a U.S Priority, Camp Says
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-05-17T15:48:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/tax-code-overhaul-must-be-made-a-u-s-priority-camp-says.html
The  U.S. Congress  and President
 Barack Obama  should endorse a fast-track approach leading to a
rewrite of the  tax code  in 2013, Representative  Dave Camp , the
top House tax writer, said today.  “Doing so would send a clear, strong message to the
markets, to employers and families that Washington is serious
about reforming our tax code and putting us on a path to
sustained economic growth,” Camp said in a speech in
Washington, according to prepared remarks distributed by his
office.  Camp, 58, a Michigan Republican, is chairman of the House
Ways and Means Committee. He spoke today at a conference
sponsored by Baker & Hostetler LLP, the lobbying firm Federal
Policy Group and the Yale Club of Washington.  The fate of a tax code overhaul is linked to other fiscal
policy issues. They include automatic spending cuts starting in
January and expiration of tax cuts that comprise a so-called
fiscal cliff late this year that could reduce the gross domestic
product by about 3 percent if Congress does nothing.  Camp and House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican,
want to couple the short-term extension of expiring tax cuts
with what they both called an “expedited process” to ensure a
tax code rewrite in 2013. They haven’t decided on details of the
process or estimated what the consequences of inaction would be.  Indefensible Status Quo  “There is a recognition that the status quo is
indefensible,” Representative Peter Roskam, an Illinois
Republican on the Ways and Means Committee, said in an interview
yesterday. “There’s a recognition that there’s an opportunity
to do something, and I think that the public would become very
dissatisfied if in the next Congress it’s not dealt with.”  The House Republican budget adopted earlier this year calls
for dropping the top individual and corporate tax rates to 25
percent from 35 percent, eliminating the alternative minimum tax
and reducing the number of individual tax brackets to two from
six.  The proposal would require Congress to curtail or eliminate
many tax breaks, and Democrats have criticized Republicans for
not being specific about the most politically difficult portions
of their plan.  Camp has been holding hearings and planning sessions with
 House Republicans .  ’Dusty Springfield Song’  “Clearly, progress has been made,” he said. “This isn’t
just some Dusty Springfield song, and we aren’t just sitting
around ‘wishing and hoping and thinking and praying’ that tax
reform will get done.”  The administration hasn’t proposed an overhaul of the
entire tax code. It won’t do so because negotiations last year
with Republicans proved “impossible,” Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  told Camp at a Feb. 15 hearing.  “Your side walked away from the table three separate
times,” Geithner said. “You guys were not ready.”  Camp urged business groups and others with a stake in the
outcome to get involved in the process of making those
tradeoffs.  “ Tax reform  cannot be achieved if everyone retreats to
their four corners,” he said. That is “why we are now
struggling under the weight of a tax code that bears significant
responsibility for the sluggish economic recovery.”  No Decisions  He also said no decisions have been made on reviving
miscellaneous tax breaks that expired at the end of 2011. These
so-called extenders include the research and development tax
credit and accelerated depreciation for motorsports tracks.  “If extenders are beneficial and are helping the economy,
then they should be seriously considered,” Camp said. “On the
other hand, if an extender has outlived its value, and if it is
not producing the economic benefits it once was, then we need to
determine whether there is merit in continuing that provision.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at +1-202-654-7307 or
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at +1-202-654-7362 or
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  