-- Tax Code Overhaul Requires Tradeoffs of Popular Benefits
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-05-17T15:45:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/tax-code-overhaul-requires-tradeoffs-of-popular-benefits.html
Lawmakers trying to curtail or end
popular tax breaks to pay for lower tax rates will face tough
political choices and resistance from taxpayers, advisers to
Congress’s top tax writers said today.  Reducing the top individual and corporate tax rates to 25
percent from 35 percent is mathematically possible by removing
tax breaks and making other structural changes to the tax base,
said George Callas, a tax counsel to Representative  Dave Camp ,
chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee.  “You can’t get there by killing off some renewable energy
credits,” said Callas, who spoke at a National Tax Association
conference in  Washington  and said he wasn’t speaking for Camp.
“That’s not going to work. You’re going to have to make some
very serious tradeoffs.”  House Republicans  have called for dropping the top tax
rates to 25 percent without specifying how they would do it.
Independent analysts have said that they would need to consider
limiting benefits for mortgage interest, charitable
contributions and health care. Camp, a Michigan Republican, said
today that he wants a process to force Congress to overhaul the
 tax code  in 2013.  Any plan that would reduce the top rates to 25 percent
would shift the tax burden away from higher-income people, said
 Jason Furman , deputy director of the White House National
Economic Council, who spoke on the same panel.  “Twenty-five is not something that I think is
mathematically -- let alone politically or economically --
possible to achieve,” he said.  ‘Magic’ 25 Percent  Callas said the 25 percent goal has a “magic” to it that
can create a sense of shared sacrifice in which everyone gives
up tax breaks.  “The excitement around a certain rate -- and we think that
rate is 25 -- causes people to focus less on what they’re giving
up and more on what they’re getting,” Callas said.  President  Barack Obama  has proposed raising the top
individual  tax rate  to 39.6 percent and reducing the top
corporate tax rate to 28 percent for many kinds of income and to
25 percent for others.  Lawmakers should approach the tax debate with a “realistic
understanding” of what it would take to get rates down to 25
percent, Furman said.  “That type of ambition is great, but it needs to be
ambition tempered by analysis as well,” he said.  Any overhaul of the tax code should occur as part of a
deficit-reduction effort that includes higher revenue, Furman
said. Republicans say a tax overhaul shouldn’t raise taxes.  Deficit ‘Too Large’  “Our deficit on a current policy basis is simply too large
to take that stance right now, and revenue and spending both
need to be part of a solution,” Furman said.  Without agreement on the levels of revenue and distribution
of the tax burden, Congress will have a hard time filling in the
details, said Lily Batchelder, chief tax counsel on the Senate
Finance Committee.  “It’s really hard for the worker bees to come up with a
tax reform plan if that’s not set,” said Batchelder, who said
she wasn’t speaking for the committee or its chairman,  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  