-- Tax for Bankrupt Alabama County Fails in State House
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 2012-05-17T15:15:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/tax-for-bankrupt-alabama-county-fails-in-state-house.html
The Alabama House refused to consider
allowing bankrupt Jefferson County, Alabama, to raise taxes,
which may lead to further cuts in services and more missed bond
payments.  Lawmakers voted to remove the measure from their agenda
yesterday, the last day of their annual legislative session.
Unless Republican Governor Robert Bentley calls a special
session, the Legislature won’t be able to consider approving a
tax until it reconvenes in February.  County officials, struggling with a budget shortfall,
sought permission to reinstate a wage tax struck down by the
state  Supreme Court  last year. The tax had generated about 25
percent of the county’s general fund, and can’t be replaced
without legislative approval.  The county, which in November filed the biggest U.S.
municipal bankruptcy, will further reduce services and may miss
a $10 million general-obligation bond payment due in October,
said County Manager Tony Petelos in a May 15 interview.
Officials have said they’re considering closing courts one day a
week, stopping meal delivery for poor senior citizens and
eliminating building inspections.  At a news conference today in Montgomery, Bentley said he
won’t call a special session of the Legislature to address
Jefferson County unless the county’s legislative delegation can
agree on a solution. So far, the delegation hasn’t reached a
consensus on whether to increase taxes. The governor called a
special session starting today on other matters.  State Costs  State Representative Patricia Todd, a Democrat from
Birmingham, criticized her colleagues for failing to act.  “What they don’t understand is the seriousness of our
defaults on general-obligation bonds,” Todd said in an
interview. “That’s going to cost the whole state.”  Jeremy King , a spokesman for Bentley, declined to comment
on whether the governor would call a special session on the
issue.  Jefferson County has fired 800 workers, closed government
offices, cut medical care for the poor and missed a $15 million
general-obligation bond payment.  The House bill would have allowed the county to levy a wage
tax for those who live and work in the county. The measure
exempted those who live elsewhere, while a Senate version
approved on May 3 included everyone who works in the county.
County officials backed the Senate version, which they say may
generate $60 million annually.  Bond Deals  The county’s financial trouble began more than three years
ago, a product of corruption and bad bond deals involving its
sewer system. It became a crisis last year, after the wage tax
was struck down.  Both the House and Senate measures were written in a way
that sidestepped opposition from state lawmakers representing
the county.  Lawmakers in  Alabama  usually can block measures written to
apply only to their county. The Legislature worked around that
by allowing any county in the state that has filed for Chapter 9
bankruptcy to raise taxes, instead of singling out Jefferson,
the only county in that category.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Montgomery, Alabama at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  