-- Bankia of Spain Said to Plan Property Sale of $508 Million
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n   a n d   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2012-05-17T12:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/bankia-said-to-plan-sale-leaseback-of-eu400-million-of-property.html
Bankia SA, the publicly traded arm of
the lender taken over by  Spain ’s government this month, plans to
sell and lease back 400 million euros ($508 million) of
properties, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  The mix of bank branches and other buildings would be sold
at a yield of 8 percent to 9 percent, said the people, who asked
not to be identified because the information is private. A
spokesman for Banka declined to comment.  Spain’s third-biggest bank needs to make 4.72 billion euros
of pretax provisions to cover real-estate losses under new
government rules aimed at bolstering the nation’s financial-
services industry. Banco Santander SA, the country’s biggest
lender, will make 2.7 billion euros of pretax provisions while
its largest rival, Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, will set
aside 1.8 billion euros.  Bankia (BKIA) , which has more real estate on its books than any
other Spanish bank, said on Feb. 2, that it would meet new
provisioning rules for property assets in part through sales and
leasebacks of loan portfolios and  real  estate.  Bankia tumbled as much as 29 percent in Madrid trading
after newspaper El Mundo reported that depositors had withdrawn
about 1 billion euros since May 9, the day the government said
would take over its parent company. Spain’s deputy economy
minister, Fernando Jimenez Lattore, said today there is no
deposit flight from the bank. The stock was down 9.6 percent at
1.49 euros as of 2:26 p.m.  Bankia’s parent, Banco Financiero & de Ahorros SA, was
nationalized on May 9, ending control by 300-year-old Caja
 Madrid  and six other savings banks that combined in 2010 to
create the Bankia group. The nationalization is part of Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s efforts to overhaul the financial
industry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Smyth in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net 
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at   rlarsen2@bloomberg.net  