-- Bankia Shares Plunge on Report of Deposit Flight: Madrid Mover
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-05-17T12:27:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/bankia-shares-plunge-on-report-of-deposit-flight-madrid-mover.html
Bankia SA (BKIA) , the publicly traded arm of
the banking group taken over by the Spanish government last
week, plunged as much as 29 percent after El Mundo reported that
the lender’s depositors were withdrawing their money.  Shares in Bankia, the lender with the biggest asset base in
 Spain , fell 14 percent to 1.43 euros at 2:13 p.m. in Madrid. The
maximum intraday  decline  was the biggest since the bank sold
shares in its initial public offering last July. Bankia shares
have fallen 62 percent since May 4, the last trading day before
Chairman  Rodrigo Rato ’s May 7 announcement that  he was quitting .  A spokesman for Bankia declined to comment on the El Mundo
report, which said depositors had withdrawn about 1 billion
euros ($1.3 billion) since May 9, the day the government said it
was taking over the lender. On May 15, Bankia published
preliminary first-quarter financial data rather than a full
earnings report, saying it may need to amend the figures to take
account of a pending full audit of its 2011 accounts.  “It’s an accumulation of bad news for Bankia,” Juan Pablo Lopez, an  analyst  at Espirito Santo Investment Bank in  Madrid ,
said by phone. “Obviously, the El Mundo report is negative.”  Deputy Economy Minister Fernando Jimenez Latorre said today
during a briefing in Madrid that Spain has no concern about
money being withdrawn from banks and there is no deposit flight
from Bankia.  Santiago Lopez, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas, yesterday
cut his price target for Bankia to 95 euro cents from 2 euros.
“It is crystal clear to us that existing shareholders face, at
best, massive dilution after the announcements of the past
weeks,” he said in a report dated May 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  