-- Banks May Need $566 Billion to Plug Capital Gap, Fitch Says
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2012-05-17T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/banks-may-need-566-billion-to-plug-capital-gap-fitch-says.html
The world’s biggest banks may have to
raise about $566 billion of common equity to meet rules on
capital to be implemented by 2019, curtailing shareholder
returns, according to analysts at  Fitch Ratings .  The sum needed by the 29 global banks that regulators deem
too big to fail is equivalent to about 23 percent of the
lenders’ current $2.5 trillion of aggregate common equity,
according to a report by analysts led by Martin Hansen in  New
York . The median lender could meet the requirements with three
years of retained earnings, according to Fitch.  International banking regulators  meeting under the aegis of
the  Bank for International Settlements  in Basel are seeking to
implement rules to prevent taxpayers being forced to rescue
failing banks. As well as boosting  capital requirements , they
are instituting rules on leverage ratios and funding to ensure
lenders can withstand future crises.  “There’s a shortfall and we wanted to see what covering
that implies,” Hansen said in a telephone interview. The new
rules, known as Basel III, “create incentives to reduce
expenses further and to increase pricing pressure on borrowers
and customers where feasible,” he said.  The banks named as global systemically important financial
institutions, which have to hold a special capital surcharge of
between 1 percent and 2.5 percent of assets weighted by risk,
include  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , the four largest U.K. banks,  Bank of
America Corp.  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Volatile Assets  They are likely to reduce their holdings of more volatile,
lower-rated assets, potentially increasing borrowing costs of
weaker companies and reducing availability of credit to them,
according to the report. Securities of such borrowers would
become harder to trade and companies may be forced to borrow
from less regulated lenders such as private equity firms and
 hedge funds , according to a Fitch report today, called “Basel
III: Return and Deleveraging Pressures.”  “If banks decide to originate risk and then pass it on to
outsiders then it adds to the stability of the banking system,”
said Hansen. “Risk hasn’t been reduced, though -- it’s been
moved from one part of the system to another.”  The median return on equity of the 29 lenders, which was
7.3 percent last year and averaged 11 percent between 2005 and
2011, will fall to 8.5 percent to 9 percent as the banks seek to
make up the capital shortfall, according to Hansen.  Some institutions may see a competitive advantage stemming
from their systemic status and the likelihood they would be
rescued in crisis, because they would have lower funding costs
and may be able to lure business away from competitors. Others
might see it as a “regulatory burden” and seek to limit their
size and complexity to escape the designation, according to the
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  