-- Bayern-Chelsea Final Tests German Economics on Soccer Field
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-05-17T11:13:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/bayern-chelsea-final-tests-german-economics-on-soccer-field-1-.html
For clues to how the German economy
stands out from the European debt crisis, look no further than
Champions League finalist  Bayern Munich .  Germany’s most successful club on the field will go into
the match in two days at its own  Allianz Arena  having not made a
loss off it for 19 straight seasons. It plays Chelsea, the
English team that’s been propelled to the top of European soccer
thanks to more than $1 billion of cash from  Roman Abramovich .
The Russian oligarch has covered financial losses during every
one of the nine years since he bought the London club.  “We have always had one philosophy and that’s not to spend
more than we generate,” said Bayern Munich Chief Executive
Officer Karl-Heinz Rummenigge, among the former players who’ve
swapped soccer jerseys for suits. “From the very beginning when
I came into the executive in 1991 after my career as a player it
was quite clear that we have to follow this way.”  Bayern is a microcosm of how  Germany  manages its economy.
While rival soccer nations England, Italy and Spain are in
recession, Germany is continuing to grow, its  unemployment rate 
is at a two-decade low and  Chancellor Angela Merkel  is telling
euro partners such as  Greece  they must stick to austerity
measures to undo years of overspending.  The German economy unexpectedly expanded 0.5 percent in the
first quarter after contracting 0.2 percent, helping the euro
area avoid a second recession in three years, according to
figures published this week. Bayern meanwhile is forecasting
record sales of more than 350 million euros ($446 million) this
year, and profit of as much as 20 million euros.  German Way  “Bayern is just run in a very German way,” said  Carsten Brzeski , senior economist at ING Group in Brussels. “They only
spend on players what they’ve got in their bank account. You
might get quick wins out of the debt-fueled Chelsea model, but
in the long run you have to ask, is it sustainable?”  Bayern Chairman Uli Hoeness, 60, was the architect of the
club’s philosophy. Since quitting a career on the pitch that
included three-straight European Cups with Bayern between 1974
and 1976 and a  World Cup  with Germany, Hoeness has guided the
club into the money.  The southern German team has grown to become the fourth-
richest in soccer. It took 321.4 million euros of revenue last
year compared with the equivalent of 6 million euros when
Hoeness took over in 1979.  Expensive Flops  While governing body UEFA estimates top-level European
soccer teams have amassed losses totaling 1.6 billion euros in
pursuit of soccer success, Bayern has refused to overstretch to
add to the fourth European Cup it won in 2001.  “Is it as interesting when you have a person behind you
who is paying everything?” Hoeness said in an interview at a
Munich restaurant in January. “To win the  Champions League  by
working hard and generating your own money is much more
satisfying.”  Chelsea has enjoyed the most successful period in its
history under Abramovich. He bought players like  Didier Drogba ,
 Ashley Cole  and  Petr Cech  as well as expensive flops like Andriy Shevchenko and made managerial changes that cost more than $100
million. In return, he got three league titles, four F.A. Cups
and now a second Champions League final.  Two Finals  Over the same period, Bayern won four German championships
and four German Cups, while being beaten in the 2010 Champions
League final by Milan’s Internazionale, which recorded an 80-
million euro loss the same year.  “Reaching two Champions League finals over the last three
years shows that the Bayern model of healthy club finances can
also yield success,” said Brzeski at ING.  Still, Bayern’s recent success hasn’t come cheaply either.
The club spent more than 80 million euros acquiring its trio of
attackers,  Arjen Robben ,  Franck Ribery  and  Mario Gomez , and has
the sixth-highest payroll in soccer, according to the Sporting
Intelligence website. Chelsea is ranked fourth.  It also risks finishing without a trophy for the second-
straight year after being thrashed by league champion Borussia
Dortmund 5-2 in last week’s German Cup final.  “I believe a club like ours, which always has to be
successful and try and win titles, must always invest in
quality,” Rummenigge, 56, said in an interview. “Fortunately,
thanks to our wealth we can do so.”  German Management  While its prudent housekeeping mirrors the German economy,
its structure of turning to former players to run the business
is also redolent of the “Mittelstand,” or family-run companies
that have provided the backbone for German growth.  There are currently about 15 members of staff who wore
Bayern’s red and white colors over the years, including honorary
president  Franz Beckenbauer , 66, and Gerd Muller, also 66, who
helps coach the reserve team. A new generation is being led by
39-year-old former defender Christian Nerlinger, who was
studying for an international business degree when he got the
call from Hoeness to return as general manager in 2010.  Nerlinger, who negotiates player contracts and liaises with
coach Jupp Heynckes on team matters, likened his transition to
“jumping into cold water.”  Bayern Munich is 81.8 percent owned by its 170,000 members
who pay 50 euros each to have a say in how the team is run. The
remainder is owned by sponsors  Adidas AG (ADS)  and Audi AG, which both
hold 9.1 percent stakes. Adidas bought its stake about a decade
ago to help finance the 350 million-euro Allianz Arena.  Adidas Marriage  The relationship with Adidas is Bayern’s oldest
partnership. Adidas Chief Executive Officer  Herbert Hainer  said
company founder Adi Dassler used to ask players like Beckenbauer
to try out new products and even wanted Hoeness to marry one of
his daughters.  “That probably would have meant he would have been the
boss of Adidas today and not the president of Bayern Munich,”
Hainer told reporters in January.  Bayern might also profit from new financial regulations
being introduced by UEFA, Hainer said. The rules stipulate clubs
limit losses or face sanctions including exclusion from the
Champions League starting in 2014.  Hoeness said it would be a “disaster” for his team if
 UEFA  failed to implement its so-called financial fair play
directive, saying Bayern would be unable to keep pace with the
likes of Chelsea and now Manchester City.  City ended a 44-year wait for an English league title on
May 13 thanks to 400 million pounds’ ($637 million) worth of new
talent bought by its Abu Dhabi-based owner Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan since he acquired the team in 2008.  Teams that rely on cash infusions from wealthy benefactors
face risky futures, Hoeness said.  “It’s like Mr. Abramovich has I believe put 700 million
pounds into the club,” he said. “What will happen if there’s a
moment where he one day said, ‘I’m now going on my yachts and I
buy pictures’ and so on? That’s a big question.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  