-- Berkshire Buys Media General Newspapers for $142 Million
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-05-17T22:17:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/berkshire-buys-media-general-s-newspapers-for-142-million.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  agreed to pay
$142 million for  Media General Inc. (MEG) ’s newspapers including the
Richmond Times-Dispatch as Warren Buffett bets community-focused
publications will weather an advertising slump.  Berkshire will also provide Media General a $400 million
 term loan  with an interest rate of 10.5 percent, the Richmond,
Virginia-based newspaper company said today in a statement. The
deal includes all of the company’s newspapers except for the
Tampa, Florida, group, which is being sold separately, according
to the statement.  Berkshire is expanding in newspapers after purchasing
Buffett’s hometown paper, the Omaha World-Herald Co., last year.
The company is the largest holder of  Washington Post Co. (WPO)  and
owns the  Buffalo News  of  New York . Buffett, Berkshire’s chairman
and chief executive officer, is expanding his holdings in the
industry after telling shareholders in 2009 that papers have
“potential for unending losses” and that he wouldn’t buy most
of them “at any price.”  “I think there is a future for newspapers that exist in an
area where there’s a sense of community,” Buffett said at
Berkshire’s annual meeting in Omaha, Nebraska, on May 5.  Berkshire will also get warrants for about 4.6 million
Class A shares representing 19.9 percent of Media General and
the option to nominate a board member, according to the
statement.  Focus on TV  The deal includes 63 daily and weekly newspapers in
Virginia,  North Carolina ,  South Carolina  and Alabama and is
expected to be completed on June 25, Media General said in the
statement. The company’s properties include the Winston-Salem
Journal in North Carolina and the Dothan Eagle in Alabama.
Berkshire will also provide the company with a $45 million
revolving credit line.  The sale allows Media General to focus on its television
business, according to the the company. Media General jumped 33
percent to close at $4.18 in New York, the biggest gain since
October. Before today, the firm’s shares had fallen more than 90
percent since trading above $72 in April 2004. Berkshire’s
shares declined 0.8 percent today to $120,850.  Terry Kroeger, president of BH Media Group, the Berkshire
subsidiary that made the purchase, told employees in Richmond
that Buffett said to tell them “I did this because I love
newspapers,” according to a  story  on the Times-Dispatch
website.  ‘One Puff Left’  The newspaper industry has suffered advertising declines as
marketers shift budgets toward digital media.  New York Times Co. (NYT) 
reported an 8.1 percent drop in ad revenue in the quarter ending
in March and  Gannett Co. (GCI) , publisher of 82 daily newspapers
including USA Today, saw an 8.4 percent drop in ad sales for the
same period.  “I have a hard time seeing the long-term value of print
media,”  Meyer Shields , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. who
covers Berkshire, wrote in an e-mail.“There may be one ‘puff’
left, but to me, newspapers are the antithesis” of companies
with a competitive advantage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  