-- Berlin Airport Delayed for 9 Months as Airlines Query Reason
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-05-17T14:21:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/berlin-new-airport-to-open-nine-months-late-on-fire-safety-delay.html
Berlin’s new airport said it won’t
open until next spring, jeopardizing plans to add flights from
Germany’s capital city at carriers including  Air Berlin Plc. (AB1)   Berlin Brandenburg Willy Brandt Airport, built at a cost of
2.5 billion euros ($3.2 billion), will commence services on
March 17 following the completion of fire-safety tests that had
already led to the cancellation of a June 3 start date.  “This is completely unacceptable and will result in
irreparable damage to the image of Berlin as an airport hub,”
Air Berlin Chief Executive Officer Hartmut Mehdorn said in a
statement today. “The delay of the opening by many months can’t
be explained any more by simple fire-safety measures.”  Berlin Brandenburg said on May 8 that its opening would be
postponed after tests on a system that removes smoke in the
event of fire fell behind schedule. Air Berlin, which will use
the airport as its hub, said then it was surprised at the news,
as did  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ,  Europe ’s second-biggest airline,
which will operate more than 1,000 weekly flights there.  Work on the fire-safety system will last until December,
followed by three months of testing, and the new schedule will
avoid the risk of opening during inclement winter weather,
airport officials said at a press conference today.  Plans Needed  The timescale presumes that complete and accurate planning
documents are delivered by mid-June,  Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Robert Bosch
GmbH  and  Imtech NV (IM) , which are responsible for various components
in the system, said in an e-mailed statement, adding that they
support a “speedy” completion of the project.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Systems unit was incorrectly
identified as involved in installing the mechanism, according to
the airport, and isn’t working on the program.  The cost of the disruption is as yet unclear, the airport
said. Operations chief Manfred Koertgen will leave and a
contract with Planungsgemeinschaft Flughafen Berlin Brandenburg
International, responsible for planning, has been terminated. PG
BBI couldn’t be reached for comment today, a holiday in  Germany .  “We know that we need to win back confidence that we’ve
lost,” Rainer Schwarz, Berlin Brandenburg’s chief executive
officer, told journalists, adding that he was not directly to
blame for the failure. “We’ve disappointed many partners, not
just the airlines but the concessions.”  Compensation  The airport, originally slated for completion in 2011, will
have an initial capacity of 27 million passengers annually, with
longer-term plans to handle 45 million. Berlin’s existing
airports, Tegel and Schoenefeld, will close when it opens.  Air Berlin said there’ll be a significant business impact
from the delay and that it might not be able to implement its
full flight plan. The no-frills carrier has said it expects to
be reimbursed by the airport and owners which include Germany’s
federal government, the city of Berlin and state of Brandenburg.  Lufthansa, which has its main hub in Frankfurt and a
secondary base in Munich, said in a statement that while the
delay is “regrettable,” it’s “only sensible” to open the new
airport once arrangements are “stable and safe.”  The carrier will add five planes at Tegel in an effort to
accommodate the 500,000 people who have booked onto its planned
services from Berlin Brandenburg, spokesman  Wolfgang Weber  said.  “We know that with the delay of the opening we’ve caused
significant disturbance,” Berlin Mayor Klaus Wowereit said at
the press conference, adding that he’s “optimistic” passengers
will be able to catch booked flights as carriers continue
operations from the city’s two existing airports.  Berlin used to have three airports, a by-product of the
city’s division during the  Cold War , with Schoenefeld serving
the eastern part, Tegel the west and Tempelhof, used by the
Allies during the Berlin airlift, near the center.  Tempelhof was closed in 2008. Willy Brandt airport was
built next to Schoenefeld, and will use one of its runways.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Webb in  Frankfurt  at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  