-- Bharat Petroleum Beating Refiners on Africa Exporation
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-05-17T18:33:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/bharat-petroleum-beats-asia-refiners-on-africa-corporate-india.html
Bharat Petroleum Corp. (BPCL)  is the best-
performing energy stock on the MSCI AC Asia Pacific Index this
year and analysts say its foray into exploration in Africa to
counter refining losses may mean there’s more growth to come.  Bharat Petroleum’s 54 percent surge this year makes it the
only refiner among the top 10 gainers on the MSCI AC Asia
Pacific Index and the best performer on  India ’s 50-share  Nifty
Index. (NIFTY)  India’s second-biggest state refiner holds a 10 percent
stake in a block off  Mozambique , the site of the biggest natural
gas discoveries in a decade.  The company, based in Mumbai, is emulating  PetroChina Co. (857) 
and  China Petroleum & Chemical (386)  Corp. in acquiring overseas oil
and gas assets to reduce the risk of refining and selling fuels
at state-controlled prices. A discovery reported on May 15 in
the Mozambique block operated by  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  may
increase gas reserves by 66 percent, enough to supply  China  and
India for eight years, based on 2010 consumption.  “Bharat Petroleum is clearly diverging from its Indian
state-run peers because of the strong progress in its
exploration portfolio,”  Alok Deshpande , a Mumbai-based analyst
with Elara Securities Ltd., said yesterday. “Investors can look
forward to even more upside.”  Bharat Petroleum fell 2.2 percent to 735.85 rupees in
Mumbai yesterday. The company’s advance this year  compares  with
a 5.8 percent gain at Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s biggest
refiner, and a 21 percent rise at Hindustan Petroleum Corp.  Elara’s Deshpande and Stuart Murray increased Bharat
Petroleum’s 12-month target price to 890 rupees a share from 800
rupees. They assigned 535 rupees a share, or 60 percent of the
target, to exploration and production, according to a May 16
report.  Gas Potential  S. Varadarajan, director finance at  Bharat Petroleum ,
didn’t answer two calls to his mobile phone seeking comment and
an e-mail query sent to spokesman M.M. Somaya wasn’t immediately
answered.  The Mozambique block may have as much as 50 trillion cubic
feet of gas, according to a May 12 statement. The reserves may
be enough to support construction of a gas liquefaction terminal
to export the fuel to Asia’s biggest economies.  Bharat Petroleum reported the new discovery in Rovuma Area
1 in the  Indian Ocean . The Golfinho exploration well found 7
trillion to 20 trillion cubic feet of recoverable gas, according
to the statement. That adds to the reserves in the Prosperidade
find, which holds as much as 30 trillion cubic feet, the  company 
said.  ‘Best Hedge’  Bharat Petroleum and local rivals  Indian Oil (IOCL)  and Hindustan
Petroleum sell fuels below cost to help Prime Minister Manmohan
Singh’s government curb inflation. The companies lose a combined
5.1 billion rupees every day on the sales and lost 1.4 trillion
rupees in revenue in the year ended March 31, according to oil
ministry data.  The  refiner  posted losses in the first two quarters of the
year that ended on March 31 after India’s government failed to
compensate the company for selling diesel and cooking fuels at
less than market rates. The company is scheduled to report
fourth-quarter earnings on May 25.  “The gas discoveries are the best hedge against below-cost
fuel sales in India,” Gagan Dixit, an analyst with Quant
Broking Pvt. in Mumbai, said by telephone yesterday. “It’s
getting to a stage where a quarter of Bharat Petroleum’s value
is from the gas discoveries.”  Dixit raised Bharat Petroleum’s exploration valuation by 11
percent after the latest discovery. The Mozambique assets add to
Bharat Petroleum’s ventures in offshore Brazil with operator
Petroleos Brasileiro SA and in Indonesia.  Analyst Consensus  Of the 45  analysts  covering Bharat Petroleum, 25 recommend
buying the stock, 15 suggest holding and five advise selling it,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The consensus of analyst recommendations for Bharat
Petroleum is 3.84, higher than Indian Oil’s 3.54 and  Reliance
Industries (RIL)  Ltd.’s 3.75. PetroChina’s 4.11 rating and Cnooc
Ltd.’s 3.94 are better.  Reliance Industries, owner of the world’s largest refining
complex, has declined 1.1 percent this year as output from
India’s biggest gas deposit dropped. Production at the KG-D6
block is just half of its target, after output fell for a second
year. Reliance, controlled by billionaire  Mukesh Ambani , started
commercial production in the area in April 2009.  “Exploration is always a risky business and you can never
know how much gas can be brought out of the ground,” said Alex
Mathews, head of research at Geojit BNP Paribas Financial
Services Ltd. “It’s just estimates and too early
to say how much gas will be produced from Mozambique.”  PetroChina Profit  PetroChina, China’s biggest energy producer, posted an
increase in first-quarter profit after it ramped up oil and gas
production, while China Petroleum & Chemical, Asia’s biggest
refiner, posted a slump in earnings on losses from selling fuels
at state-controlled prices.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc,  Europe ’s largest oil company, agreed
to buy U.K. explorer Cove Energy Plc, which has an 8.5 percent
interest in Rovuma Area 1. Anadarko holds 36.5 percent of Rovuma
Area 1, Japan’s Mitsui & Co. 20 percent, India’s  Videocon
Industries Ltd. (VCLF)  and Bharat Petroleum unit Bharat PetroResources
Ltd. 10 percent each, and Mozambique’s state oil company 15
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  