-- Boom-Era Debt Sparking German Apartment Sales: Mortgages
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d ,   N e i l   C a l l a n a n   a n d   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2012-05-18T15:47:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/boom-era-debt-sparking-german-apartment-sales-mortgages.html
Germany ’s multi-family housing market
is set to have the most deals in five years as investors
including private-equity firms are forced to sell almost 100,000
apartments to pay debt amassed in last decade’s buyout boom.  There were 2.9 billion euros ($3.7 billion) of apartment
property transactions in the first quarter alone, more than
three times the amount a year earlier, and the total this year
may exceed 6 billion euros, the most since 2007, according to
estimates by London-based real-estate broker Savills Plc.  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  and Guy Hands’s Terra Firma
Capital Partners Ltd. are among private-equity firms facing debt
maturities after buying thousands of German properties with the
easy credit available in the years before the financial crisis
hit in 2008. Loans for the deals were typically packaged and
sold as commercial mortgage-backed securities. A total of 10
billion euros of German multifamily CMBS is now set to mature by
the end of 2014, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The main issue facing the larger players is purely
refinancing risk on maturity due to the size of their
outstanding debt,” said Nassar Hussain, founder of London-based
real-estate debt adviser Brookland Partners LLP.  Concern about the scale of refinancing required has
depressed the values of senior German multi-family CMBS,
providing opportunities to bet on the outcome. Debt sold by
German Residential Asset Note Distributor Plc, backed by
Deutsche Annington Immobilien AG’s loans, trade at 92.1 cents on
the euro, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  JPMorgan Trades  One active buyer of senior German multi-family CMBS has
been  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s $360 billion Chief Investment
Office, according to two people with knowledge of the matter,
who declined to be identified because the information is
private. The New York-based bank last week disclosed the CIO had
a $2 billion trading loss on synthetic  credit derivatives .
JPMorgan spokesman Holger Ullrich declined to comment on the
CMBS investment.  Refinancing debt in Germany has become more challenging as
banks scale back lending as a result of stricter capital
standards, the sovereign-debt crisis and the continuing
stagnation of  Europe ’s CMBS market.  The proportion of German loans parceled within CMBS that
are fully performing fell to 45.5 percent in the first quarter
from 47.2 percent in the last three months of 2011, according to
a Fitch Ratings report today. That’s “far below the European
average of 60.5 percent, making Germany once again the worst-
performing jurisdiction,” Fitch analysts wrote.  Buyout firms and companies that bought during the real-
estate boom are being forced to weigh alternatives including
selling assets or pursuing an initial public offering.  Gagfah Selling Apartments  Gagfah SA (GFJ) , controlled by New York-based Fortress, said
earlier this month it may sell 38,000 apartments because 3.3
billion euros of mortgages backed by the properties are due to
mature next year. The company, Germany’s largest publicly traded
residential landlord with nearly 150,000 apartments, hired
investment bank Leonardo & Co. to advise on the sale of its
properties in Dresden, which account for about a quarter of its
real estate.  Deutsche Annington, owned by funds managed by Terra Firma,
needs to refinance 4.46 billion euros of debt coming due in July
2013. The Bochum-based company owns and manages 215,000 homes
across Germany.  Vitus Immobilien Sarl, owner of 30,000 German homes, has
five loans maturing later this year. They totaled 580 million
euros at the end of 2011, according to notices to CMBS holders.
Vitus is owned by a group of funds managed by  Blackstone Group
LP (BX) , Round Hill Capital LLC, Deutsche Bank AG and  Aviva Plc. (AV/)   The companies and their owners either declined to comment
or weren’t immediately available to comment on their refinancing
plans.  Limited Capacity  While there is some willingness among lenders and investors
to refinance the loans, banks and debt markets “cannot absorb
the level of capital needed,” Brookland’s Hussain said.  The success of buyout firms’ refinancing efforts depends on
how much debt financed their acquisitions and what they bought.
Some investor groups overpaid for inferior properties in eastern
Germany or depressed industrial regions. Others are struggling
to generate enough rental income to meet debts and some firms
face having to refinance substantial borrowings, according to
real-estate advisers.  “In the heady days of 2005 to 2007, particularly,
international private equity paid increasingly large multiples
for German multi-family housing portfolios,” said Robin Priest,
a senior adviser with turnaround firm Alvarez & Marsal’s
European real-estate advisory unit.  Some firms’ leveraged bets were based on unrealistic
expectations about rental growth, valuations and operating
costs, according to Priest.  Surprised Germans  “The assumptions and capital structures that were deployed
served to turn a formerly mundane asset class into something
rather more exciting,” Priest said. “Germans looked on in
surprise and many of those same Germans are now looking to buy
back in at rather more comfortable multiples.”  The best properties in cities like Berlin, Hamburg and
Frankfurt generate gross rental income equivalent to about 5
percent of the purchase price, while a 10-year German government
bond yields a record-low 1.41 percent. Apartment-block values,
which investors gauge by multiples of annual net rental income,
vary from 19 times in Munich, the most desirable investment
location, to as low as 8.5 times in Gelsenkirchen, a former
coal-mining city in the Ruhr area, Savills said.  ‘Real Money’  Property companies and real-estate funds are among those
looking to take advantage of the latest opportunities to invest
in German multi-family housing, according to Rolf Elgeti, chief
executive officer of  TAG Immobilien AG (TEG) , which in March agreed to
buy DKB Immobilien AG from  Bayerische Landesbank  for 960 million
euros including debt, more than doubling its portfolio to about
56,000 homes.  “People are going to look back at 2012 and say this was
the year that real money came back to invest in the big
residential portfolios in Germany,” Elgeti said in an
interview, referring to opportunity funds, pension funds,
insurance companies and public companies.  Cerberus Capital Management LP, the U.S. private-equity
firm led by  Stephen Feinberg , agreed to buy 22,000 housing units
in a 985 million-euro debt restructuring from the liquidator of
Speymill Deutsche Immobilien Co., or SDIC, the New York-based
firm said in a May 16 statement. Benson Elliot Capital
Management LP in March acquired 3,000 apartments and commercial
units formerly owned by SDIC, which had defaulted on a 187
million-euro loan packaged into CMBS.  Blackstone Acquired  Since September, Blackstone Group has acquired about two-
thirds of the 21,000 apartments and 700 commercial properties
owned by Level One, which was placed in insolvency
administration in August 2008 owing creditors 1.5 billion euros.
Blackstone paid a total of around 450 million euros for the
assets.  “Prices on smaller lots have gone up, but in the bigger
portfolios prices are not overheated,” said Thomas Zinnoecker,
chief executive officer of  GSW Immobilien AG (GIB) , which raised about
190 million euros earlier this month to buy properties. “People
who bought five to eight years ago are now asking themselves ‘Do
I still want to be here?”’  Borrowers will probably find it easier to refinance if debt
is less than two-thirds of the value of the real estate, Conor O’Toole, a London-based asset-backed securities analyst at
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , said in an interview. Smaller U.S. buyout
firms or borrowers with little expertise in the German
residential market will have more difficulty, he said.  Preparing for IPO  Accelerating asset sales “will be one of the key
strategies for mitigating refinancing risk,” O’Toole said in a
note to investors in March.  GSW Immobilien refinanced more than 890 million euros of
CMBS in February 2011. The deal and cost cutting cleared the way
for Cerberus and funds managed by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to
complete a 468 million-euro IPO of GSW in April 2011.  Deutsche Annington may be preparing for an IPO by
incorporating into a common-stock company to facilitate the
share sale. Chief Executive Officer Wijnand Donkers said in an
interview with Immobilien Zeitung this month that it was close
to completing its refinancing of some of its CMBS debt.  The amount of residential real estate on the market is
complicating buyout firms’ efforts to sell assets bought during
the boom. Germany’s government is looking to sell TLG Wohnen
GmbH and Bayerische Landesbank plans to dispose of GBW
Immobilien. Together, they own about 44,000 apartments. There
are also residential assets for sale owned by companies that
have defaulted or are insolvent.  Competing Bidders  Barclays Plc (BARC)  is trying to sell its Baubecon Immobilien GmbH
unit, which it values at 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion). GSW
and Goldman Sachs-managed Whitehall Street Real Estate fund have
made an offer to acquire Baubecon, which has 21,000 housing
units.  Deutsche Wohnen (DWNI)  is also competing for Baubecon.  Deutsche Wohnen has about 400 million euros to invest and
“could be eyeing larger portfolios that would require more
equity,” JPMorgan said in a note to investors today.  “There could be a refinancing ‘crunch”’ because of the
amount of CMBS maturing through 2014, Neil Green, an analyst at
the investment bank, said in the note. “Although Deutsche
Wohnen has no debt to refinance until 2015, we don’t think a
wave of forced restructuring would be positive for the overall
market.”  Patrizia Immobilien AG (P1Z)  led a group of investors that
acquired 21,000-unit LBBW Immobilien GmbH for 1.4 billion euros
in February from Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg, Germany’s
biggest state-owned lender.  “The time for pure private-equity investment that we had
five or six years ago is over because investors simply cannot
get the leverage and returns they did before,” Klaus Schmitt,
the Augsburg-based real-estate company’s chief operating
officer, said in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Packard in  London  at 
 packard@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net ;
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban in  New York  at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 