-- Bovespa Enters Bear Market as Global Economy Concern Deepens
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-05-17T21:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/bovespa-approaches-bear-market-on-china-slowdown-europe-concern.html
The Bovespa index plunged into a  bear
market  on concern a worsening global economy will curb demand
for Brazilian exports after a quarter in which most companies
reported earnings that trailed estimates.  The  benchmark  slid 3.3 percent to 54,038.20 at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo, extending its drop to 21 percent from a
bull-market high on March 13. The measure had jumped 41 percent
from an Aug. 8 low through that day. The real fell 0.4 percent
today to 2.0087 per  U.S. dollar , the weakest level since July
2009.  Concern that  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis is deepening
while economic growth slows in China is pushing stocks lower
across  emerging markets . MSCI Inc.’s  index  of the so-called BRIC
countries fell 1.4 percent today, extending its drop from this
year’s high to more than 20 percent as well.  Russia ’s Micex
Index entered a bear market on May 17.  “What’s been really impacting the market in the past few
weeks is Europe more than anything else,” Greg Lesko, who
manages $700 million at Deltec Asset Management in  New York ,
said in a phone interview. “There were some disappointments in
first-quarter earnings, but most of what’s going on right now is
related to global  risk aversion .”  Emerging-market stocks are dropping as  Greece  struggled to
form a new government following an inconclusive May 6 election
and as a rise in Spain’s borrowing costs at an auction rekindled
speculation that the crisis is spreading. In Brazil, 32 of the
61 companies in the Bovespa that have reported quarterly
earnings have missed analysts’ estimates, while 24 beat
forecasts, data compiled by Bloomberg  show .  China Outlook  A slowdown in China, Brazil’s biggest trading partner, also
dims the outlook for the Bovespa as raw-material producers
account for 44 percent of the index’s weighting, said Rogerio Freitas, a partner at Rio de Janeiro-based hedge fund Teorica
Investimentos.  “ China  is deliberately hitting the brakes as the
government tries to keep growth at a more sustainable level,”
Freitas said by phone. Premier Wen Jiabao cut China’s target for
2012 economic expansion in March and reports showed export and
import increases missed estimates in April while industrial
output growth was the slowest since 2009.  LLX Logistica SA, the port developer controlled by
billionaire  Eike Batista , fell 7.5 percent to 2.48 reais today,
the worst performer on the Bovespa index.  B2W Cia. Global do Varejo  tumbled 4.9 percent to 7.12 reais
after rallying 16 percent yesterday, when a report from Valor
Economico said parent company Lojas Americanas SA will delist
B2W shares. The online retailer said it “doesn’t know of any
reason” for the recent fluctuations in its share price,
according to a regulatory filing yesterday after markets closed.  Homebuilders Plunge  Homebuilders have been the worst performers on the Bovespa
since the bull market peak. PDG Realty SA, the country’s
largest, dropped the most, tumbling 56 percent to 3.41 reais.
Rossi Residential SA was the second-worst, falling 52 percent to
5.53 reais, followed by Brookfield Incorporacoes SA, which slid
48 percent to 3.71 reais.  The Bovespa trades at 9.1 times analysts’ earnings
estimates for the next four quarters, which compares with the
8.2 ratio for MSCI’s BRIC Index, which includes stocks in
Brazil, Russia,  India  and China, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Trading volume was 8.3 billion reais in stocks in  Sao Paulo 
today, data compiled by Bloomberg  show . That compares with a
daily average of 7.2 billion reais this year through May 15,
according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Richtmyer in New York at 
 rrichtmyer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  