-- Brazil March Retail Sales Rise Offsets Industrial Weakness
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-05-17T14:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/brazil-annual-retail-sales-rise-at-fastest-pace-in-two-years-1-.html
Brazil ’s  retail sales  in March rose
for the fifth time in seven months, as President  Dilma Rousseff 
cuts interest rates and taxes to bolster consumer demand that
has been the engine of the world’s sixth-largest economy.  The volume of sales rose 0.2 percent after zero growth in
February, the national statistics agency said today in Rio de
Janeiro. Economists had predicted an increase of 0.3 percent,
according to the median estimate from 37 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Sales jumped 12.5 percent from a year earlier, the
largest increase since March 2010.  Policy makers have reduced the  benchmark  Selic rate by 350
basis points since August, while public banks last month said
they would cut their lending rates by as much as 21 percent to
help boost economic growth that slowed to 2.7 percent last year
from 7.5 percent in 2010. The Rousseff administration has also
extended tax cuts for appliances to stimulate  consumer spending 
and eliminated payroll taxes for industries including textiles
and shoes.  “Consumer demand is moderate but it’s still helping to
offset weak industrial output and supporting economic growth,”
 Solange Srour , chief economist at BNY Mellon ARX Investimentos,
said by telephone from Rio de Janeiro. “Higher credit default
rates are delaying the impact of the falling Selic rate.”  While a consumer credit boom fueled by an expanding middle
class helped drive economic growth of 7.5 percent in 2010 and
converted Brazil into a leading market for cellular phones, cars
and television sets, borrowers’ growing difficulties in repaying
loans has slowed some sectors. Consumer credit delinquency
jumped 23.7 percent in April from a year earlier, while vehicle
sales fell the most in more than a year in April.  Futures Rise  The yield on the  interest rate  futures contract maturing in
January 2013, the most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, rose six basis
points, or 0.60 percentage point, to 7.85 percent at 10:42 a.m.
Brasilia time. The real gained 0.1 percent to 1.9993 per dollar.  Major retailers showed stronger sales in the first quarter
and mixed financial results. Sao Paulo-based  Cia Brasileira de
Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar (PCAR4) , the country’s largest
retailer, saw its consolidated first quarter net income rise
25.8 percent to 167 million reais ($83 million) from a year
earlier, as same-store sales rose 9.6 percent.  Internet Sales  Magazine Luiza SA (MGLU3) , a Sao Paulo-based retailer, posted a
loss of 40.7 million reais compared with a 12.3 million reais
profit a year earlier. The company said on May 14 it expected
sales to grow in the remainder of 2012 fueled by new stores,
 Internet sales  and the “reduction in the basic interest rate to
its lowest level ever.”  With a depreciating real, which makes imported goods more
costly, domestic manufacturers expect to claw back market share
from foreign competitors, Humberto Barbato, head of the
electronics industry group Abinee, told reporters yesterday.  “Given the  exchange rate , we hope to revert the scenario
in the short term, reducing imports,” he said.  The real has lost 14.3 percent against the dollar in the
past three months, the worst performance among major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  The broader retail index, which includes the sale of cars
and construction materials, rose 10.2 percent from the previous
year, the statistics agency said.  Annual  inflation  slowed to 5.1 percent in April, the lowest
rate in 19 months. The central bank  targets  inflation of 4.5
percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Goodman in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  