-- Brazil Rate Futures Drop as Europe Overshadows Retail Sales
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-05-17T21:06:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/brazil-rate-futures-drop-as-europe-overshadows-retail-sales.html
Yields on Brazilian interest-rate
futures touched record lows as European debt concerns flared and
U.S. factory data that trailed forecasts fueled bets policy
makers will extend borrowing-cost cuts amid weakening growth.  Futures yields declined, reversing an earlier climb, after
Moody’s Investors Service downgraded Spanish banks and the
Philadelphia-region manufacturing data bolstered bets central
bank President Alexandre Tombini will deepen rate cuts this year
to bolster growth in  Latin America ’s largest economy. Brazil’s
real erased earlier gains, falling below 2 per dollar for a
third day, the lowest level in almost three years.  “The external scenario got a lot worse,”  Solange Srour ,
the chief economist at BNY Mellon ARX Investimentos, said by
phone from  Rio de Janeiro . “The central bank already signaled
that it will change its mind in accordance with the
environment.”  The yield on the interest-rate futures contract due in
January 2014 fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point,
to 8.18 percent today in Sao Paulo. Earlier it touched 8.15
percent, a record low. The real depreciated 0.4 percent to
2.0087 per  U.S. dollar , after reaching 2.0122 earlier, the
weakest level since July 2009.  The central bank has reduced  Brazil ’s target lending rate
by 3.5 percentage points since Aug. 31 to 9 percent, the most
among the world’s 25 largest economies, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Policy makers may reduce the benchmark
below the record low 8.75 percent to 8 percent by the end of
August 2012, trading in interest-rate futures shows.  Policy makers said further cuts to the target Selic rate
will be carried out “with parsimony,” in minutes to the
central bank’s April 17-18 meeting.  Rate Cut Cycle  The yield on the interest-rate futures contract due in
January 2014 has tumbled 58 basis points this month as political
instability in  Europe  fueled speculation Brazil’s central bank
will lengthen the interest-rate cutting cycle that began in
August.  High  interest rates  that are “incompatible” with the rest
of the world pose an obstacle to faster economic growth,
President  Dilma Rousseff  said May 15 in Brasilia.  Rate futures rose earlier today after the national
statistics agency said the volume of retail sales rose 12.5
percent in March from a year earlier, the fastest pace since
March 2010. The median forecast of analysts in a Bloomberg News
survey was for an increase of 11.7 percent.  The real headed for its sixth consecutive weekly loss after
the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
index decreased to minus 5.8 in May, indicating an unexpected
contraction in manufacturing. Economists said the gauge would
raise to 10.  The currency has traded weaker than 1.90 per dollar since
April 30 as the central bank bought $7.2 billion in the  spot
market  in April, the most since $8.4 billion purchased in March
2011.  “The market continues to be very volatile,” Hideaki Iha,
a currency trader at Fair Corretora de Cambio e Valores, said by
phone from  Sao Paulo . “Problems in Greece and Spain are
worsening.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  