-- BRIC Bear Market Not Cheap Enough for Charles de Vaulx’s IVA
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2012-05-18T03:49:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/bric-bear-market-not-cheap-enough-for-de-vaulx-finding-zero-buys.html
The  MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC) ’s slide into a
bear market has left equities in the biggest emerging economies
trading at the lowest levels since 2009 versus global shares.  That’s still not cheap enough for Charles de Vaulx to add a
single stock from Brazil,  Russia ,  India  or  China  to his $9.7
billion IVA Worldwide Fund, which  beat  MSCI’s global gauge by 29
percentage points since its inception in 2008. He’s waiting for
further declines of 10 percent to 20 percent before buying.  “For the time being, we have nothing in the BRICs,” de
Vaulx said in a May 16 phone interview. “We’re starting to do
some work, but we haven’t been willing to pull the trigger.”  The largest companies in Brazil and China are placing the
interests of their governments above shareholders, while the
rule of law in Russia is too weak for investment and Indian
companies face slower profit growth, de Vaulx said. At the same
time, BRIC companies with the best prospects, such as  Want Want
China Holdings Ltd. (151) , are already trading at high valuations
relative to history and peers, he said.  The New York-based money manager’s concerns help show why
stocks in the BRIC nations have fallen further from this year’s
peak than in  Europe  or the U.S., even as the emerging economies
expand more than three times faster than developed nations. BRIC
equity mutual funds have posted outflows for 10 straight weeks,
with investors pulling out about $500 million through May 16,
according to data compiled by research firm EPFR Global.  The MSCI BRIC gauge fell 1.1 percent as of 11:28 a.m. in
 Hong Kong , extending its retreat from a March 2 high to 21
percent. The index closed at 258.78 yesterday, the lowest price
versus the MSCI All-Country World Index since January 2009, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The global measure has declined 11
percent from this year’s high. The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index
is down 16 percent from March 2.  $4 Trillion  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s Jim O’Neill coined the term BRIC
in 2001 to describe  Brazil (IBOV) , Russia, India and China. The New
York-based bank predicted in 2003 that the countries would join
the U.S. and  Japan  as the world’s biggest economies by 2050.  The worldwide retreat in stocks since March has wiped out
about $4 trillion of market capitalization amid concern that
Europe’s debt crisis will curb economic growth. Greece faces a
fresh election on June 17 that may boost parties opposed to the
conditions of its international bailouts. Spanish borrowing
costs rose at an auction of government debt yesterday, while
Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said this week the country faces
the “serious risk” of losing access to bond markets.  BRIC stock markets are trading at relatively attractive
valuations and may rally should oil prices climb or if economic
growth picks up in China, said Geoffrey Dennis, Citigroup Inc.’s
global emerging-market strategist in  New York .  ‘Long-Term Values’  “Markets are quite cheap,” he said in a telephone
interview. “They’re good long-term values. We’ve just got to
wait for individual triggers to come through.”  India may lag behind the other countries because of its
“weak fundamentals,” Dennis said. Citigroup reduced its target
for the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  to 1,100 from 1,225, amid
concern over a possible exit by Greece from the euro, the
strategist wrote in a note dated yesterday. The developing-
market index dropped 1.5 percent to 906.60 today.  The MSCI BRIC index is  valued  at 1.3 times net assets,
lower than the multiple of 1.5 for the MSCI World Index of
advanced-country shares and 2.1 for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Negative Correlation  The BRIC countries will probably expand at an average pace
of 5.5 percent this year, compared with 1.4 percent for
developed countries, according to April forecasts from the
Washington-based  International Monetary Fund .  That economic growth doesn’t ensure equity gains, according
to de Vaulx. He cited a 2004 study by  Jay Ritter , a professor at
the University of  Florida , showing that equity returns were
negatively correlated with per-capita gross domestic product
growth, based on data from 16 countries from 1900 through 2002.  “It’s wrong to believe that high growth is always good for
stocks,” said de Vaulx, adding that he bought emerging-market
shares during economic slowdowns caused by the so-called Tequila
crisis in  Latin America  in 1994 and the Asian financial crisis
three years later.  Mining Tax  Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa index sank 3.3 percent
yesterday, bringing its retreat from a March 13 high to 21
percent. Vale SA, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, and
Petroleo Brasileiro SA, Brazil’s state-owned oil company,
contributed the most to the index’s retreat yesterday.  Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff has called for higher
taxes on mining companies and her administration prompted the
ouster of Vale Chief Executive Officer  Roger Agnelli  last year
after criticizing the company for not generating jobs.  “I see things getting worse,” said  Michael Shaoul ,
chairman of New York-based Marketfield Asset Management, whose
$1.5 billion Marketfield fund has topped 99 percent of peers
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “We’re
perhaps at two-thirds of the  bear market .”  Russia’s Micex Index also sank to more than 20 percent
below its 2012 high yesterday. The gauge fell 3.5 percent to the
lowest level in seven months, led by an 8 percent tumble in OAO
Sberbank, the country’s biggest lender.  Russian Funds  While President  Vladimir Putin  has pledged to make the
country’s political process more democratic and strengthen the
rule of law, Russians are moving more funds out of the country.  Capital flight reached $42 billion for the first four
months of 2012, more than half of last year’s $80.5 billion
outflow.  The BSE India Sensitive Index has dropped 13 percent from
its Feb. 21 high, with losses for dollar-based investors growing
to 21 percent as the rupee weakened to a near record low. A May
14 report showed wholesale price inflation unexpectedly
accelerated in April, curbing the central bank’s scope to
bolster the weakest economic growth since 2009.  The MSCI China Index of shares available to foreign
investors has retreated 14 percent from this year’s high on Feb.
29. Deutsche Bank AG advised investors on May 15 to hold fewer
of the nation’s shares than are represented in benchmark
indexes, citing the possibility that the government may force
state-owned utilities, banks and phone companies to support
economic growth at the expense of shareholder returns.  Want Want  De Vaulx said he favors owning companies listed in
developed countries that derive some of their revenue from fast-
growing developing nations. His fund owns shares of Nestle SA,
the world’s biggest food maker, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Vevey, Switzerland-based company is valued at 18
times reported profits, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  That compares with a multiple of 37 for Want Want China
Holdings, the country’s largest maker of rice cakes. The
Shanghai-based company, which posted 2011 earnings that topped
analysts’ estimates after a 31 percent jump in sales, has surged
19 percent this year.  “The real gems, the businesses we would love to own, by
and large are not available in the stock market at good
prices,” de Vaulx said. “If the market is kind enough to bring
those stock prices down, we will be ready to buy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  