-- British American Tobacoo Starts Australian Discount Brand
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-05-17T01:19:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/british-american-tobacoo-starts-australian-discount-brand.html
British American Tobacco Plc’s (BATS) 
Australian unit, maker of the country’s most popular cigarette
brand Winfield, introduced its first discount label to compete
with illegal tobacco products.  A pack of 25 cigarettes under the “Just Smokes” brand
sells for A$11.50 ($11.40) at retailers, including the Coles
supermarket chain,  Scott McIntyre , a spokesman at British
American Tobacco in Sydney, said in a telephone interview today.
Winfield sells for A$15.75 at Coles and can cost as much as A$20
for a package of 25 at independent convenience stores.  British American Tobacco is fighting the Australian
government in court over its plan to be the first country to
implement a law requiring cigarettes to be sold in plain
packages.  Australia ’s discount tobacco market, measured by the
number of cigarettes sold, has grown 63 percent since the
government increased excise tax by 25 percent in 2010, according
to the London-based company’s estimates.  “We’ve never had a product in this segment before,”
McIntyre said. “A few years ago, the market didn’t exist.”  The counterfeit tobacco market in Australia, including
cigarettes sold in fake branded packages, tripled in 2011 from a
year earlier to an estimated 407,000 kilograms (897,000 pounds),
based on a  report  by Deloitte & Touche LLP.  The contraband market, such as cigarettes smuggled in to
avoid duties, has also more than tripled in the same period to
an estimated 430,000 kilograms, according to the report, which
was commissioned by British American Tobacco,  Philip Morris
International Inc. (PM)  and  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc. (IMT)   “While counterfeit and contraband cigarettes do exist in
Australia,  tobacco companies  overstate their availability as an
excuse to push their own products harder,” Health Minister
Tanya Plibersek said in an e-mailed statement today. “It is
always disappointing to see efforts by tobacco companies to keep
Australians smoking.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  