-- TBS to Televise Baseball’s Extra Tier of Playoff Games This Year
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-05-17T16:44:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/tbs-to-televise-baseball-s-extra-tier-of-playoff-games-this-year.html
Time Warner Inc.’s Turner
Broadcasting will televise the two extra playoff games added to
 Major League Baseball ’s 2012 and 2013 postseasons.  Baseball’s postseason is expanding to 10 teams from eight
starting this year by adding a one-game wild-card playoff in
each league. The extra playoff tier was agreed to in baseball’s
labor contract approved in December.  Baseball’s television contracts with TBS, News Corp.’s Fox
network and Walt Disney Co.’s ESPN runs through the 2013 season.
Fox will televise this year’s  World Series  and the National
League Championship Series, while TBS will broadcast the
American League Championship Series and 18 of the 20 potential
division series games.  “The additional single-elimination wild card spots will
build upon the popularity of the sport and will serve as a great
launching pad for our Division Series and ALCS coverage on
TBS,”  David Levy , president of sales, distribution and sports
for Turner Broadcasting, said in a statement.  MLB Network will also televise two division series games in
each of the next two years, the league said today, marking the
first time it will air live postseason games.  Under the new format, five teams each from the American and
National leagues will be in the playoffs, meaning one-third of
the sport’s 30 teams qualify for the postseason. It’s the first
change to the format since 1994.  The three division winners in each league will get a first-
round bye, while the two non-division winners with the best
records will meet to decide the final spot in each league. If
the format was in place a year ago, the  Tampa Bay Rays  and
Boston  Red Sox  would have met in the one-game playoff in the AL.
The Red Sox missed the postseason in 2011 after finishing one
game behind the Rays in the AL East at 90-72.  In a departure from past postseason rules, the winner of
the one-game wild-card playoff will advance to face the league’s
top team regardless of whether those two teams play in the same
division. Using last year as an example, the winner of the Rays-
Red Sox wild-card would have faced the AL East-champion New York
Yankees, who had the league’s best record at 97-65. Previous
rules prohibited wild-card winners from playing within their own
division to open the playoffs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  