-- Buffet Said to Have Pursued Rescap Buy Before Bankruptcy
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-05-18T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/buffett-said-to-have-sought-rescap-purchase-before-bankruptcy.html
Billionaire  Warren Buffett  sought to
buy Residential Capital from  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  before the
government-owned company put the home lender in bankruptcy,
according to three people familiar with the matter.  Buffett assigned former hedge-fund manager Ted Weschler to
negotiate an offer with Ally, said the people, who requested
anonymity because the talks were private. Buffett’s  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  would have paid almost nothing upfront for the
assets, while taking on potential liabilities such as mounting
litigation costs and other claims, the people said.  Buffett sought to avoid a ResCap bankruptcy filing because
Berkshire had unsecured debt in the mortgage unit, according to
the people. Detroit-based Ally turned down the Weschler proposal
after deciding that a bankruptcy filing and sale better
protected the company from future liabilities, the people said.  ResCap’s board voted to declare bankruptcy and arrange a
sale to  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  and Nationstar Mortgage
Holdings Inc. for about $2.3 billion, ResCap Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Thomas Marano said in an interview this week.
Fortress and Nationstar won’t take on the liabilities that
Berkshire had proposed assuming, according to the people.  “We are confident in the bankruptcy court-supervised
bidding process, which is designed to ensure that the ResCap
estate receives the best possible combination of price and terms
for its assets in a court-approved transaction,” said Susan
Fitzpatrick, a ResCap spokeswoman, in an e-mailed statement.  Buffett, 81, didn’t return a message left with an
assistant at Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire seeking comment.
Gina Proia, a spokeswoman for Ally, and the U.S. Treasury
Department’s  Matt Anderson  declined to comment.  Losses Piled Up  ResCap sought court protection May 14 after losses piled up
on subprime and Alt-A mortgages bundled into bonds during the
credit crisis. The Chapter 11 reorganization is one of the
biggest collapses of a home lender since Wachovia Corp. agreed
to be acquired by  Wells Fargo & Co . at the end of 2008.  Ally agreed to pay $750 million to ResCap to settle any
claims against the parent company, such as those brought by
bondholders or other third parties, CEO  Michael Carpenter  said
this week. A Chapter 11 filing protects a company from creditors
and allows it to operate while a turnaround is devised.  The U.S. Trustee, which monitors bankruptcy proceedings as
part of the  Justice Department , selected members of the
unsecured creditors committee for ResCap’s bankruptcy, according
to a filing in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan. American
International Group Inc., Allstate Corp. and FGIC Corp. were
among nine members named to the committee, which will negotiate
on behalf of unsecured creditors.  Missed a Chance  Buffett missed a chance to acquire ResCap’s home-loan
origination business and mortgage-servicing assets on $374
billion of loans, which Nationstar, majority-owned by Fortress,
agreed to purchase. Mortgage servicers handle billing,
collection and foreclosures. Buffett may still bid on ResCap in
the court-supervised process.  The billionaire has been preparing Berkshire for his
eventual departure, in part by hiring Weschler and former hedge-
fund manager Todd Combs to help oversee investments in the past
two years. The two apprentice stock pickers oversee $2.75
billion each, Buffett said at the firm’s May 5 annual meeting.  Weschler, before joining Berkshire, ran hedge fund
Peninsula Capital Advisors LLC and became one of the largest
investors in bankrupt chemical maker W.R. Grace & Co. A 2005
regulatory filing shows he served as chairman of the official
committee of equity security holders.  Berkshire joined Leucadia National Corp. in 2009 to buy
bankrupt Capmark Financial Group Inc.’s loan-servicing and
mortgage business for more than $400 million. Capmark, a
commercial-mortgage firm, had been owned by Ally when it was
called GMAC LLC.  Ally, 74 percent-owned by U.S. taxpayers after a $17.2
billion bailout, may divest more than $30 billion of vehicle-
finance, banking and insurance assets in  Canada  and Mexico as
well as in  Europe  and  South America  to help repay U.S. funds,
according to a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer in New York at +1-212-617-2358 or
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  