-- Bus Crash Driver’s License Suspended 18 Times, NTSB Says
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s   a n d   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-05-17T18:44:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/bus-crash-driver-s-license-suspended-18-times-ntsb-says.html
The driver in a  New York  bus crash
that killed 15 people had his driver’s license suspended 18
times and was fired from two previous transportation jobs,
according to investigative documents released today.  The driver, Ophadell Williams, was also involved in an
accident on the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway three days before the
March 12, 2011, crash, in which a World Wide Travel of Greater
New York bus returning from the Mohegan Sun casino in
 Connecticut  flipped and hit a sign post, shearing off the roof.  “The fact that he had a crash on a bus three days prior
and they still were allowing him to drive is indicative of a
company that puts profits ahead of passenger safety,”  Henry Jasny , vice president of the Washington-based Advocates for
Highway and Auto Safety, said in a phone interview.  The National Transportation Safety Board released the
information today ahead of a hearing scheduled in June to
determine causes of the accident. The Bronx crash was the first
of three fatal bus accidents that spurred a renewed focus on
safety by the U.S. Transportation Department and Congress.  At least 28 people died in crashes last year as a
proliferation of discount lines in East Coast cities made buses
the fastest-growing form of U.S. commercial transportation.  ‘Unsatisfactory’ Rating  Williams was charged with manslaughter and criminally
negligent homicide after the accident, according to a Sept. 1
statement from Bronx District Attorney  Robert Johnson . Sean H.
Rooney, a lawyer representing Williams, didn’t immediately
return a phone call today seeking comment.  Williams told investigators that a semi-trailer truck
veered into his lane and hit his bus, running it off the road.
Investigators couldn’t find any evidence of a collision prior to
the accident, a preliminary NTSB examination found.  World Wide Travel was rejected for a U.S. Defense
Department contract to carry military personnel in 2009,
according to the safety board records.  The U.S. Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, which
regulates bus safety, ranked the company “unsatisfactory” in a
post-accident review, investigators found. World Wide Travel was
shut down after the crash and is inactive, according to agency
records.  The regulator found that the company had an accident rate
of 5.7 per million miles traveled. The agency classifies firms
with rates above 1.2 as “unsatisfactory.”  Talking, Sleeping, Driving  The bus driver had little sleep during the three days prior
to the crash, according to the safety board records.  He was working through the nights, ferrying gamblers to and
from a casino. Williams’ mobile phone records showed numerous
calls during times he said he slept between shifts, according to
the safety board. He also was operating a rental car during
those periods, the records show.  He said he slept from midnight to about 3:20 a.m. in his
bus on the day of the accident, according to the safety board
reports.  “Fatigue is a big problem in the bus and motor-coach
industry, as well as the commercial trucking industry,” Jasny
said.  Williams previously was fired from jobs with Coach USA, a
unit of Perth, Scotland-based  Stagecoach Group Plc (SGC) , and the New
York Metropolitan Transit Agency, the  National Transportation
Safety Board  found. The latter firing occurred for his failure
to report two criminal convictions on his job application,
according to records.  Moving Violations  Williams’ history of driving violations dates to 1990, when
he was 17. He was cited three times from 1990 to 1994 for
driving without a license, according to the NTSB. The initial
case led to his license being suspended repeatedly by New York
authorities after he failed to appear at court hearings,
according to the NTSB.  From the time he received a license in 1995 through 2003,
he was cited seven times for violations ranging from improper
passing to failure to obey a stop sign, according to the
records. During that period, his license was revoked five
separate times.  After a three-year period of no violations, he received a
commercial license in 2006.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  