-- Buy Asian Equities If Signs of Progress in Europe, Says Resona
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-05-17T05:05:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/buy-asian-equities-if-signs-of-progress-in-europe-says-resona.html
Koji Toda, chief  fund manager  at
Resona Bank Ltd. in  Tokyo , which oversees about $68 billion,
comments on Asian stocks.  Asia’s regional equity gauge swung between gains and losses
as stronger economic growth in  Japan  and Singapore and
indications the  Federal Reserve  will act to shore up the U.S.
recovery tempered concern that Greece’s economic crisis is
worsening.  On market outlook:  “We may see a huge buy-back if we see some end to  Europe ’s
political turmoil and people realize that stocks in Asia are
cheap given their strong economies,”  “Stocks have fallen too quickly recently. They’re at a
level we should buy once we see some signs of improvement in
Europe.”  “For European investors, Asian stocks are merely an
alternative, a kind of seasoning that you would add as an extra.
If they were to take away risks, it would start from here.”  On Asian economies:  “Strong economic growth in  Asia  may not mean much if
Europe’s situation continues to deteriorate.”  “Asian economies aren’t that bad right now. But
considering the political risks in Europe, especially those
which you can’t predict or control, there’s a lot of worry about
the future.”  On impact of Greece’s political impasse, debt crisis on Asian
markets:  “Investors are increasingly becoming risk-off, converting
their investments into cash or taking refuge in safer assets
like bonds, especially of countries that are viewed as safe
havens.”  “There are a lot of uncertainties surrounding Europe, with
Greece being the center of it all. If this was about the macro
economy, economists could at least come up with some forecasts.
But with political issues like these, you really can’t predict
what will happen. It’s something you can’t foresee or control,
and you really need to take into account the possible risks.
There’s a global move towards avoiding risks.”  “The Greece problem may not have a direct impact on Asian
companies. But it’s Europe’s problem as a whole, impacting the
region’s economies and currency, and that’s something Asian
companies need to worry about.”  On the Federal Reserve:  “The Fed is giving a signal to the market that there’s no
need for panic, by assuring it will do something before things
get really bad.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in  Hong Kong  at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  