-- Cameron Says Lower Trade Barriers Offer Best Global Stimulus
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-05-18T08:44:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/cameron-says-lower-trade-barriers-offer-best-stimulus-for-world.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ,
preparing to meet fellow leaders at a Group of Eight summit
today, said agreeing to lower trade barriers would be the best
stimulus to the world economy.  “We must work together to give the world economy the one
big stimulus that would really make a difference: an expansion
of trade freedoms,” Cameron wrote in an article published on
the  PoliticsHome website  before the leaders gather at Camp
David,  Maryland , outside  Washington . “Together, the EU and U.S.
account for almost a third of global trade, so a deal with the
U.S. could potentially be bigger than all the other EU trade
deals on the table.”  The prime minister will focus his efforts at getting
agreement to begin trade talks between the European Union and
the U.S. He renewed his commitment yesterday to austerity even
with Britain in recession, arguing that low  interest rates  were
the best way of boosting growth.  Cameron repeated that message in a television interview
this morning before leaving for Camp David. He said his deficit-
reduction plans are supporting economic growth, not harming it,
and are no more demanding than those of newly elected French
President  Francois Hollande . The two leaders will hold their
first face-to-face meeting today before the G-8 get-together.  ‘Fundamental Judgment’  “I listen to all the criticism, I’m not living in some cut-
off world, but the fundamental judgment is you need a plan to
get on top of your debt and deficit to keep the economy
growing,” Cameron told ITV’s “Daybreak” program.  The premier said the euro-region debt crisis could get “a
lot worse” unless decisive action is taken, repeating a warning
to the leaders of the single-currency area to act now to halt
contagion that might worsen Britain’s recession.  “These are very difficult economic times and what’s
happening in the euro zone is truly worrying,” Cameron said. “If
things go badly wrong in the euro zone that affects us.”  Cameron said more needed to be done “to persuade euro-zone
countries to take really decisive action” to deal with their
problems rather than “kicking the can down the road.”  The prime minister made his views clear to Hollande and
other European leaders going to the G-8 in a videoconference
yesterday afternoon, according to his office.  Summit Agenda  The economy is the first of five issues scheduled for
discussion at the Camp David summit. In his article, Cameron
praised President  Barack Obama ’s decision to restore intimacy to
the sessions. Each leader will only be allowed one aide in the
room. Also on the agenda are energy and climate change, food
security,  Afghanistan , and the  Middle East  and North Africa.  Cameron said the second of his priorities was the spread of
democracy, pointing to elections in Tunisia and  Egypt , and the
revolution in Libya. Tonight over dinner, the leaders will
discuss Iran, Syria and Myanmar.  “The trend towards more open and accountable systems is
clear,” wrote Cameron, who last month met Myanmar’s opposition
leader, Aung San Suu Kyi, on a visit to the country. “Those who
deny this reality will end up on the wrong side of history. The
G-8 must continue to show real leadership and creativity in
finding ways to support successful transitions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in  Chicago  at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 