-- Canadian Dollar Tumbles as Slowing U.S. Economy Dims Rate View
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-05-17T21:09:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/canadian-dollar-falls-as-contagion-concern-propels-risk-aversion.html
Canada ’s dollar fell to a four-month
low against its U.S. counterpart as unexpectedly weak economic
data in the nation’s biggest trade partner prompted traders to
pare bets the central bank will raise  interest rates  this year.  The currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of the
bird on the C$1 coin, weakened for a fourth day in the longest
string of losses this year as bets  Europe ’s debt crisis will
worsen amid  Greece ’s political turmoil damped demand for higher-
yielding assets. It extended the decline after a gauge of U.S.
leading indicators and a measure of manufacturing in the
Philadelphia region unexpectedly fell.  “U.S. data today” is weighing on the loonie, said Brian Kim, a currency strategist in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “The Greece situation has people
less willing to take risky positions, so you can’t count that
out. I think the  Bank of Canada  will stay on hold this year.”  Canada’s currency depreciated 0.7 percent to C$1.0196 per
U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It was the weakest level since
Jan. 16. One Canadian dollar purchases 98.08 U.S. cents.  The loonie dropped versus all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts except the pound.  Implied volatility for one-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus the greenback increased for a fourth day, rising
to as much as 9.64 percent, the highest since Jan. 10. It fell
to 6.59 percent on April 30, the lowest since June 2007. The
five-year average is 12 percent. Implied volatility, which
traders quote and use to set option prices, signals the expected
pace of currency swings.  Bonds Rise  Canadian 10-year  government bonds  rose for a fifth day, the
longest stretch in almost three months. Yields fell five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 1.88 percent and touched
1.87 percent, the lowest level since December. Two-year note
yields decreased six basis points to 1.21 percent.  The loonie weakened even after the government said Canadian
 wholesale sales  rose 0.4 percent to C$48.7 billion in March, the
second monthly increase, adding to evidence that Canada’s
economic recovery is building. Payrolls had the biggest two-
month job gain in three decades in March and April, Statistics
Canada data showed last week.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said last month
interest-rate boosts may be necessary to contain inflation
that’s accelerating faster than central bank forecasts. The
 benchmark rate  has been 1 percent since September 2010.  Interest-Rate Bets  Today’s weaker U.S. economic data cut odds the central bank
will tighten in September to 43 percent, from about 55 percent
yesterday, according to Bloomberg calculations on trading in
overnight index swaps.  The Canadian currency gained 0.2 percent over the past week
versus nine developed-nation counterparts tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The U.S. dollar climbed 2 percent
as bets that Greece will leave the euro system spurred demand
for safety, while the euro was little changed.  The loonie extended early losses versus the greenback after
Philadelphia’s  general economic index  fell to minus 5.8 this
month, the lowest reading since September, from 8.5 in the
previous month. Economists in a Bloomberg News survey forecast
the gauge would rise to 10. Readings less than zero signal
contraction in the area covering eastern  Pennsylvania , southern
 New Jersey  and Delaware.  The Conference Board’s leading-indicators gauge of the U.S.
outlook for the next three to six months decreased 0.1 percent,
the New York-based group said. A Bloomberg survey projected a
0.1 percent rise. Labor Department data showed more Americans
that forecast filed applications for jobless benefits last week,
a sign the labor market is making little progress.  U.S. Data Influence  “The developments with respect to Greece are just one
influence on the market,” said  Jack Spitz , managing director of
foreign exchange at  National Bank of Canada  in Toronto,
referring to the U.S. currency’s gain versus the loonie. “The
influence of U.S. data created some stop-loss buying on the
dollar,” in which traders close positions on a losing bet,
“taking dollar-Canada higher.”  The Canadian currency will probably depreciate further
against its U.S. counterpart after weakening past a pivotal
technical level, reversing a bullish trend, according to Royal
Bank of Canada.  The loonie breached the seven-month resistance trend line
at C$1.0097 per  U.S. dollar  yesterday,  George Davis , chief
technical analyst  RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto, wrote today in
a client note. Resistance is an area on a chart where sell
orders, in this case for the U.S. currency, may be clustered.
The loonie may now slide to C$1.0159 and then to C$1.0319,
matching its weakest level this year.  “A lot of the price action of the last week or so is a
byproduct of the sovereign risks that have flared up in the  euro
zone ,” Davis said in a telephone interview. “That’s created a
broader risk-off tone.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  