-- Canada’s Dollar in Bullish Trend Reversal: Technical Analysis
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-05-17T16:25:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/canada-s-dollar-in-bullish-trend-reversal-technical-analysis.html
Canada ’s dollar will probably
depreciate further against its U.S. counterpart after weakening
past a pivotal technical level, reversing a bullish trend,
according to Royal Bank of Canada.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, breached the seven-month
resistance trend line at C$1.0097 per U.S. dollar yesterday,
George Davis, chief technical analyst  RBC Capital Markets  in
Toronto, wrote today in a client note. Resistance is an area on
a chart where sell orders, in this case for the U.S. currency,
may be clustered. The loonie now may slide to C$1.0159 and then
to C$1.0319, matching its weakest level this year.  “A lot of the price action of the last week or so is a
byproduct of the sovereign risks that have flared up in the  euro
zone ,” Davis said in a telephone interview. “That’s created a
broader risk-off tone.”  Canada’s currency declined 0.5 percent to C$1.0168 per U.S.
dollar at 12:23 p.m. in Toronto and reached $1.0178, the weakest
since Jan. 17. One Canadian dollar buys 98.40 U.S. cents.  Investor appetite for higher-yielding assets has dropped
this month amid speculation Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will
worsen. Greece, the center of the crisis, failed to form a
government after inconclusive elections on May 6, and voters
will return to the polls in June.  The Canadian dollar must strengthen beyond the 98.99-cent
trendline to cause a bearish trend reversal, RBC said.  In  technical analysis , investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns to forecast changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  