-- Canada March Wholesale Trade Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-05-17T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/canada-march-wholesale-trade-report-text-.html
The following is the text
of  Canada ’s wholesale trade report for March from
 Statistics Canada .  Wholesale sales rose 0.4% in March to $48.7 billion. Higher
sales were reported in three of the seven subsectors, accounting
for almost half of total wholesale sales.  In the last 12 months, Canadian wholesalers posted nine
monthly increases, which translated into a growth rate of 6.0%
relative to March 2011.  In volume terms, wholesale sales were unchanged in March.  Motor vehicle sales post the largest gain  In March, the largest increase in dollar terms was in the
motor vehicle and parts subsector. If this subsector is excluded,
wholesale sales were unchanged.  Sales in the motor vehicle and parts subsector rose 2.4% to
$8.0 billion in March. The advance largely reflected higher
sales in the motor vehicle industry.  After declining in the previous two months, wholesale sales
of food, beverages and tobacco grew 1.3% in March as a result of
higher sales in the  food industry  (+1.4%), which makes up nearly
90% of this subsector.  Sales in the building materials and supplies subsector
increased 1.7% in March on the strength of higher sales in all
of its components.  The largest decline in dollars was in the machinery,
equipment and supplies subsector.  Sales in the machinery, equipment and supplies subsector
fell 1.4%, reflecting lower sales in all of its industries. The
leading contributor was the computer and communications
equipment and supplies industry, where sales were down 2.7%.  Quebec leads in sales growth  In March, five provinces posted gains.  Wholesalers in Quebec contributed the most to the national
increase, followed by wholesalers in Ontario. Both provinces
benefited from growth in sales in the motor vehicle and parts
subsector and the food, beverage and tobacco subsector.  In  Quebec , sales were up 2.3%, the highest growth rate
since January 2011. The increase followed several months of
relatively flat sales in the province.  Ontario posted a 0.6% increase in wholesale sales in March,
its second consecutive advance.  In Western Canada, only Manitoba (+1.8%) saw higher sales.
The largest sales decrease was in Saskatchewan (-7.2%), its
fourth decline in five months.  Inventories continue to rise  Inventories grew 0.9% to $59.6 billion in March.
Inventories were up in 15 of the 25 industries.  Wholesalers in the construction, forestry, mining and
industrial machinery, equipment and supplies industry (+3.3%)
and the personal goods industry (+6.3%) had the largest
inventory increases in dollar terms.  The inventory-to-sales ratio was unchanged at 1.22 in March.  The inventory-to-sales ratio is a measure of the time in
months required to exhaust inventories if sales were to remain
at their current level.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  