-- Canadian Stocks Snap Four-Day Slump as Gold Shares Rally
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-05-17T21:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/canadian-stocks-snap-four-day-slump-as-gold-shares-rally.html
Canadian stocks  rose, breaking a
four-day losing streak, as a rally in gold helped equities avoid
declines seen in the U.S. and Europe.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) ,  Goldcorp Inc. (G)  and Yamana Gold Inc.
increased more than 4.5 percent.  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ) 
climbed 1.5 percent. China Gold International Resources Corp.
gained 7.1 percent after a Bloomberg News survey showed that
China’s economic growth is likely to accelerate in the third
quarter.  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  and Toronto-Dominion Bank fell at
least 1.6 percent.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  advanced 4.60
points, or less than 0.1 percent, to 11,330.68 Toronto time,
trimming an earlier gain of as much as 0.9 percent. The index
slumped 3.5 percent during the previous four days, and had
declined in 10 out of the past 11 sessions.  “This is a weak bounce-back day,”  Todd Johnson , a money
manager at BCV Asset Management in Winnipeg, Manitoba, said in a
telephone interview. The firm oversees C$340 million ($335
million). “Markets don’t do straight down forever. Maybe
investors are getting a little exhausted from all the negative
Spanish and European news.”  Equities fell in the U.S. and Europe as Spain’s borrowing
costs rose at an auction, stoking concern that the region’s
financial contagion is spreading from Greece. After the close of
regular trading, Moody’s Investors Service downgraded the credit
ratings of Spanish banks.  Weekly Decline  The S&P/TSX is heading for its third straight weekly
decline as concerns mount that the Greek debt crisis, European
elections and a slowing Chinese economy may curb demand for
commodities. Energy and raw-material companies account for 44
percent of Canadian stocks by market value, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Materials stocks in the S&P/TSX rose for a second straight
day as gold rallied for the first time in five sessions. The
metal jumped the most since October as speculation that the
Federal Reserve will announce more stimulus for the  U.S. economy 
boosted demand for the precious metal.  Barrick Gold, the world’s largest producer of the metal,
rose 6.9 percent to C$38.16. Goldcorp, the second-largest
producer of the metal, gained 6.9 percent to C$35.48.  Yamana
Gold Inc. (YRI) , Canada’s third-largest company in the industry by
market value, increased 4.6 percent to C$13.79.  China Gold, which explores and develops projects throughout
Asia, gained 7.1 percent to C$3.30. China’s third-quarter
economic  growth  will rebound to 8.3 percent from 7.9 percent
this quarter, the first increase in seven periods, according to
the median estimate of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Financial companies in the benchmark index tumbled after
the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
index decreased to minus 5.8 in May, indicating an unexpected
contraction in manufacturing. Economists forecast the gauge
would rise to 10.  Royal Bank of Canada, the nation’s biggest lender, slipped
2 percent to C$51.96.  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , Canada’s second-
largest lender, decreased 1.6 percent to C$77.65.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  