-- Canada March International Securities Transactions (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-05-17T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/canada-march-international-securities-transactions-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s international transactions report for March
released by  Statistics Canada .  Foreign investors reduced their holdings of Canadian
securities for the second time in three months as they divested
$2.1 billion in March, led by debt instruments. Canadian
investors acquired the largest amount of foreign securities in
nearly five years at $7.8 billion, with investment concentrated
in equities.  Non-residents reduce their holdings of Canadian debt securities  Foreign investors removed $1.5 billion from their holdings
of Canadian money market instruments in March, marking a third
straight month of divestment. This activity was again
concentrated in Canadian Treasury bills, with non-residents
reducing their holdings by a further $3.1 billion. These
reductions were partially offset by foreign acquisitions of
federal and provincial government enterprise paper.  In the first quarter of 2012, non-residents reduced their
holdings of Canadian short-term paper by $7.7 billion. This
reduction was in contrast to investment amounting to $31.2
billion over the previous three quarters.  Non-resident investors also reduced their holdings of
Canadian bonds by $897 million in March, following a $13.7
billion acquisition in February. The reduction was focused in
federal bonds, reflecting both retirements and sales on the
secondary market. Divestments were moderated by non-resident
acquisitions of federal government enterprise bonds. Canadian
long-term yields rose 14 basis points during the month, while
their US equivalent increased by 23 basis points.  Foreign investors acquire Canadian equities at a slower pace  Non-residents acquired $288 million of Canadian stocks in
March, down from a $445 million purchase in February. Investment
was driven by US purchases of energy shares. Redemptions of
Canadian shares as a result of foreign merger and acquisition
activity moderated the portfolio inflows over the month.
Canadian stock prices were down 2% in March, offsetting the
gains in February.  Canadians resume their investment in foreign equities  Canadian investors purchased $6.4 billion of foreign
equities in March, led by demand from pension funds. This was
the strongest investment since April 2007, and US shares
accounted for over 60% of the March investment. US stock prices
increased for a fourth straight month in March to their highest
level since December 2007.  Canadian investors acquire foreign bonds  Canadian investors purchased $1.6 billion of foreign bonds
in March after divestments in the previous two months. The
investment was concentrated in non-US foreign bonds, mainly debt
instruments from European countries and  Australia . Canadians
also invested in US Treasury bonds for the first time in 2012.
However, they reduced their holdings of foreign money market
instruments by $172 million in March. This was the fifth
straight divestment in these instruments with activity in the
month concentrated in foreign bank and sovereign paper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  