-- Canada Pension Posts 6.6% Return on Real Estate, Bonds
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-05-17T19:34:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/canada-pension-posts-6-6-return-on-real-estate-bonds.html
Canada Pension Plan Investment Board,
the country’s second-biggest public pension manager, posted a
return of 6.6 percent in the latest fiscal year, led by real
estate, bonds and infrastructure investments.  Investment income for the year ended March 31 was C$9.9
billion ($9.8 billion), the Toronto-based  fund manager  said
today in a statement. Assets rose to a record C$161.6 billion
from C$148.2 billion a year earlier.  “This was a 12-month period that had some particular
challenges in the global equity markets,” Chief Executive
Officer David Denison told reporters today in a briefing in
Toronto. “But it was a very strong year of growth.”  Canada Pension’s results beat the 3.2 percent median return
of the country’s pension funds over the 12 months, according to
RBC Dexia Investor Services. The manager posted gains in U.S.
and other developed-market equities as well as in bonds. It also
realized gains from private assets such as real estate and
infrastructure holdings. Returns were held down by losses in
Canadian stocks and emerging-market equities.  Canada  Pension had a five-year annualized return of 2.2
percent as of the end of March, and a 10-year annualized return
of 6.2 percent. In fiscal 2011, Canada Pension returned 12
percent. The fund includes investment earnings and contributions
not needed to pay current pensions. Contributions last year
amounted to C$3.9 billion.  Real Estate Returns  Real estate and infrastructure, which represent more than
16 percent of the fund’s investments, both returned about 13
percent in fiscal 2012, outperforming returns from equities,
which account for half the fund’s portfolio.  The pension plan’s bond portfolio, which includes money-
market securities, also lifted investment income, returning 9.5
percent last year, up from 5.3 percent in 2011. Canada Pension
said non-marketable bonds returned 14 percent last year, more
than triple that of 2011, and inflation-linked bonds returned
about 16 percent, up from 10 percent.  Denison said he doesn’t expect to repeat last year’s bond
performance in the near future. Canada Pension sold its European
sovereign bonds to buy assets including real estate and
infrastructure, which it expects will fare better over the
medium and long-term.  “There’s more downside risk to bonds over the next three
to five years than there is upside,” Denison said in a
telephone interview. “There’s not much room for yields to go
down, and that’s the practical reality of where they are
today.”  Canadian Stocks  The fund lost 11 percent on Canadian stocks, compared with
a 20 percent return the prior year, as Canada’s  benchmark 
Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index fell 9.8 percent in the
year ended March 31, including dividends. Canadian private
equities returned 8.1 percent last year, about half the return
of 2011.  Public foreign developed market equities had a 3.6 percent
return, down from 9.1 percent the year earlier, while private
foreign developed market equities returned 12 percent, down from
19 percent, Canada Pension said. The  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  gained 1.2
percent in the period.  Public emerging market equities lost 7.9 percent, compared
with an 11 percent return in 2011, the fund said. Private
emerging market equities rose 6.6 percent, compared with 17
percent the prior year.  Canada Pension also expects to do more deals around the
world, after investing in shopping malls, office properties, and
a  gas pipeline  in  Norway  in the past year.  ‘Very Active’  “We expect to be very active and that would be literally
across private equity, private debt, infrastructure and real
estate,” Denison said. “But if market conditions change, we’ll
pull back. We can decide to sit on the sidelines.”  Denison, who has been CEO of the fund since January 2005,
retires next month. He’ll be succeeded by  Mark Wiseman ,
currently executive vice president of investments for the
pension.  Canada Pension covers every Canadian province except
 Quebec . Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec, Canada’s largest
pension fund, said Feb. 23 it posted a 4 percent return on
investments for the year ended Dec. 31.  Ontario Teachers’
Pension Plan , the third-biggest retirement-fund manager, also
advanced 11 percent last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  