-- CFTC Considers Loosening Dodd-Frank Speculation Limits
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-05-17T19:58:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/cftc-said-to-consider-change-to-dodd-frank-speculation-limits.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  may propose easing Dodd-Frank Act regulations
limiting speculation in oil, natural gas, wheat and other
commodities, according to four people briefed on the matter.  The CFTC’s five commissioners are considering a private
vote to change how companies aggregate their trading positions
when they have ownership stakes in other firms, according to the
people, who spoke on condition of anonymity. The agency may
propose raising to 50 percent from 10 percent the threshold for
when a company is considered to have an ownership stake and must
add the trading positions, the people said.  Steven Adamske , a CFTC spokesman, declined to comment.  The change would affect rules on so-called position limits
that were completed by the CFTC in October. The limits, which
cap the number of contracts a trader can have, prompted a
lawsuit by the  International Swaps and Derivatives Association
Inc.  and the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association seeking to overturn the regulation.  The agency is considering revising its rules in response to
requests from lobbying groups representing agriculture and
energy firms including Cargill Inc.,  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and Archers-
Daniels-Midland Co. The proposal may still change and the
meeting could also be held in public.  ‘Actual Relief’  “Absent actual relief from the aggregation requirements of
the position limit rules, commercial firms likely will have to
significantly reorganize their existing commercial operations,”
the Working Group of Commercial Energy Firms said in a Jan. 19
petition. “These actions may include the restructuring or
disposition of investments in joint ventures.”  The CFTC said in its original rule that the intention was
to restrict the ability of a single trader to have positions in
excess of the limits because of ownership or control of multiple
accounts. The speculation limits were approved on a 3-2 vote on
Oct. 18 after more than a year of debate and 13,000 comment
letters from supporters such as  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and
opponents including  Barclays Capital. (JNK)   The rules require companies to aggregate positions when
they have a 10 percent or greater ownership interest in a firm,
“even though the entities trade and manage their positions
independently and, as a practical matter, may not be able to
access each other’s position information,” the Futures Industry
Association, a Washington-based lobbying group, said in a March
26 letter to the CFTC.  The agency’s proposed change would be open to public
comment before it is completed, the people said.  ‘Wrong Direction’  “This change goes in the wrong direction,” Marcus Stanley, policy director for Americans for Financial Reform, a
coalition including the AFL-CIO labor federation, said today in
an e-mail. “The position limit rule already has serious
weaknesses that could permit excessive speculation. Loosening
the aggregation rules would weaken it still further.”  The case is International Swaps and Derivatives Association
v. U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 11-02146, U.S.
District Court,  District of Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  