-- Chesapeake Turns to Jefferies’ Eads in $28 Billion Deals: Energy
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-05-18T20:25:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/chesapeake-turns-to-jefferies-eads-in-28-billion-deals-energy.html
When  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  Chief
Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  went on an oil and natural
gas buying spree, Ralph Eads was the banker who found the money
to fund it.  The vice chairman at  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  and former
fraternity brother of McClendon helped his firm win work
advising Oklahoma City-based Chesapeake on more than  $28 billion
of transactions  since 2007. He assisted Chesapeake in asset
sales to raise cash the company then plowed back into locking up
new prospects across the U.S., what Chesapeake often calls a
“land grab.”  McClendon is depending now on his Jefferies confidant at an
even more crucial moment. Falling gas prices, combined with the
buying binge, is forcing Chesapeake to unload assets to  keep the
company afloat . Along with  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Jefferies
bankers are seeking buyers for oil-rich prospects and lending
Chesapeake $4 billion in the meantime.  “Without Wall Street, Chesapeake wouldn’t be able to do
what it has done,” said Phil Weiss, an analyst at Argus
Research in New York who rates the shares “sell.”  Eads and New York-based Jefferies declined to comment.  “Ralph Eads and Jefferies have unmatched expertise in the
E&P business and have added enormous value to Chesapeake’s
business and its shareholders over many years,” Chesapeake said
in a statement, referring to the exploration and production
industry. “We deeply value our long-term relationship.”  Cash-Flow Shortfall  Fitch Ratings  estimates the company’s cash-flow shortfall
may reach $10 billion this year. The stock has dropped 36
percent this year and McClendon said this week that  Carl Icahn ,
the activist investor, may be buying shares. Chesapeake rose 6
percent to $14.36 at the close in New York.  The Chesapeake board said last month it will strip
McClendon of his chairmanship after revelations about his
personal borrowings prompted it to investigate any overlap
between his lenders and the company’s.  Eads and McClendon, both 52, have known each other since at
least the early 1980s, when they were Sigma Alpha Epsilon
fraternity brothers together at  Duke University . McClendon
entered the oil and gas business and eventually founded
Chesapeake in 1989. Eads went to  Wall Street , making stops at
Merrill Lynch & Co., Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., S.G. Warburg
& Co. and Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.  In 1999, Eads joined banking client El Paso Corp., helping
the pipeline company ramp up its merchant energy business to
compete with Enron Corp. of Houston.  Off-Balance-Sheet Debt  Under Eads, who was an executive vice president in charge
of the merchant energy unit, El Paso created off-balance-sheet
partnerships of a similar type to what Enron was using.  El Paso’s merchant energy business was shut down three
years later, after Enron’s collapse in an accounting fraud led
to regulatory investigations and increased scrutiny from credit-
rating companies and investors. The El Paso unit had a loss
before interest and tax of more than $1.6 billion in 2002.  Some former El Paso energy traders later pleaded guilty in
a government investigation of market manipulation. Eads wasn’t
accused of any wrongdoing.  Eads returned to the banking business the next year,
joining Randall & Dewey Inc., a Houston-based energy banking
boutique that was acquired by Jefferies in 2005.  By then, Chesapeake was preparing for an aggressive
acquisition program across the country, buying up oil and gas
acreage in emerging prospects. Many of the targets were in areas
where gas was trapped in shale rocks, formations that were just
beginning to be open to development because of advances in
technology, including the use of hydraulic fracturing and
horizontal drilling.  Work With Aubrey  Eads and Jefferies advised Chesapeake on the deals that
would help them pay for it: selling future production in the
form of “volumetric production payments,” and creating joint
ventures with deep-pocketed partners to fund the cost of
drilling wells.  The work was particularly profitable for Jefferies, which
took the joint-venture model used at Chesapeake and sold it to
companies across the  energy industry . A wave of the ventures
followed, as oil majors and national  oil companies  sought to get
in on the U.S. shale boom.  Jefferies played a role in almost all of those transactions,
helping the firm jump to the top ranks of merger advisers in the
energy industry through deals like Encana Corp.’s $1.45 billion
partnership with Mitsubishi Corp., established this year, in a
 gas field  in  Canada .  Chesapeake Chief Financial Officer Domenic Dell’Osso joined
after serving as an investment banker with Jefferies for two
years, according to the company’s website.  League Table Success  The  New York  investment bank was the fifth-biggest adviser
on oil and gas exploration and production transactions in  North
America  last year, compared with 16th place in 2005, the year it
acquired Eads’ firm, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Of
the 19 deals where Jefferies had a role in 2011, only four
involved Chesapeake, the data show.  Jefferies has even helped advise McClendon on two
volumetric production payment transactions for his personal
stakes in Chesapeake wells, according to court documents. Those
2008 transactions raised $132 million.  As Jefferies’ business expanded in 2010, Eads, a Houston
resident, bought an $8.2 million home in Aspen,  Colorado ,
according to land records. He’s also a big donor to Duke
University in Durham,  North Carolina .  Along with his friend McClendon, Eads jointly owns a
vineyard in  France , according to Forbes magazine. And they sit
together on the board of the American Clean Skies Foundation, a
group that Chesapeake helped found that advocates for gas use.  Permian Assets  For the $4 billion loan, Jefferies and Goldman Sachs are
charging Chesapeake 8.5 percent, a rate that increases to 11.5
percent if it isn’t repaid within a year.  Chesapeake and its advisers at Jefferies and Goldman Sachs
are in talks with potential buyers for acreage in the Permian
Basin, an oil-rich prospect in  Texas  and  New Mexico . The company
is also exploring a joint venture for another field in Kansas
and  Oklahoma  known as the Mississippi Lime. McClendon said in a
March interview that the Permian assets alone could fetch $5
billion.  Michael Kelly, an analyst at Global Hunter Securities LLC,
estimates that they may fetch $6.8 billion, considering the
valuation that a similar parcel of acreage in the Permian
fetched in a takeover this week.  The new loan “answers the most important question about
Chesapeake in the marketplace today,” McClendon said on a call
with analysts this week. “Will we have enough financial
firepower to be able to complete our pending asset sales?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  