-- Chile Holds Key Rate at 5% as Economy Shrugs Off Europe Woes
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-05-17T22:08:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/chile-holds-key-rate-at-5-as-economy-shrugs-off-europe-woes-1-.html
Chile’s central bank kept its key
 interest rate  unchanged for a fourth consecutive month as the
euro area debt crisis shows little sign of hurting the labor
market or slowing demand in the world’s top copper producer.  The policy board, led by bank President Rodrigo Vergara,
held the overnight rate at 5 percent today, as forecast by all
17 analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg .  Even with the third-highest borrowing costs among major
rate-setting central banks in Latin America, Chile’s economy
will grow faster than the regional average this year, according
to the  International Monetary Fund . That expansion is being
driven by domestic demand, which threatens to further boost
consumer prices, analyst Jorge Selaive said by phone.  “Domestically, economic activity grew faster in the first
quarter than had been projected in the last Monetary Policy
Report, although without deviating substantially from its trend
growth rate,” the bank said in today’s statement. “Inflation
expectations remain close to target over the projection horizon,
while short‐run expectations have fallen due mostly to the
reduction in international  oil prices .”  Policy makers will increase borrowing costs within five
months after keeping them unchanged at least through June,
according to the median estimate of 59 economists surveyed by
the central bank on May 9. They had forecast a rate cut this
year as recently as February.  Inflation Outlook  Policy makers raised inflation and economic growth
forecasts for 2012 in April, saying inflation will hover about
the upper limit of their 2 percent to 4 percent target range for
the first half of the year.  Inflation surpassed that limit in the three months through
February before falling to 3.8 percent in March and 3.5 percent
in April. The decline may be temporary as consumer price
pressures persist, Vergara told an economic forum in Santiago on
May 3.  “Short-term inflation risks have increased,” he said.
“However, risks from the external scenario remain important and
their fruition can cause significant effects in the Chilean
economy.”  Some traders in  Chile  this week started betting on an
interest rate cut as the price of copper fell to a four-month
low in New York following news that talks to form a government
in  Greece  collapsed. The metal accounts for more than half of
the Andean nation’s exports.  Interest Rate Swaps  The one-year interest rate swap, which reflects traders’
views of average borrowing costs, closed below 5 percent on May
15 for the first time since early March and fell another 13
basis points to 4.86 percent yesterday.  “Our call is for a hike by year-end, but that will highly
depend on the global backdrop,” Katia Diaz, Latin America
economist at 4Cast Inc. in  New York , said by telephone. “As
things continue to worsen globally it’s just going to be more
difficult to argue for that, so we’ll have to revisit that on
data and as things outside Chile develop.”  The central bank tomorrow is scheduled to publish data for
first quarter gross domestic product, which according to the
bank’s  Imacec index  that serves as a proxy for GDP grew 5.6
percent from the year before. That would be the fastest
expansion since second quarter 2011.  Retail sales expanded 9.5 percent in the first quarter,
according to calculations made by Bloomberg based on government
data, and unemployment fell to 6.6 percent in the three months
through March from 7.3 percent a year earlier.  “The Chilean economy gained steam in the first quarter
despite the weakness of the external demand,” Alfredo Coutino,
 Latin America  director at Moody’s Analytics, said in a May 7
note e-mailed to investors. “The economy began the year with an
expansion at rates above its own potential.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  