-- Chile Seen Leaving Rates on Hold as Global Woes Threaten Growth
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-05-17T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/chile-seen-leaving-rates-on-hold-as-global-woes-threaten-growth.html
Chile ’s central bank will leave its
 benchmark interest rate  unchanged for a fourth straight month
today as  Europe ’s debt crisis deepens, dimming growth prospects
in the world’s top copper producer, a survey showed.  Policy makers, led by bank President Rodrigo Vergara, will
keep the overnight rate at 5 percent, according to all 17
economists  surveyed by Bloomberg . The bank will announce its
decision after 6:00 p.m. local time.  Two consecutive declines in the inflation rate have taken
pressure off the central bank to raise rates soon after economic
growth accelerated in the first quarter. With copper prices
falling to a four-month low this week as  Greece  failed to form a
new government, undermining the euro, rates are likely to be
left on hold for some time, Latin America economist Katia Diaz
said.  “The fact that inflation continues to decline because of
lower commodity prices and a stronger peso, together with a
deteriorating external scenario, means that Chile’s central bank
will have a difficult time justifying a hike,” 4Cast Inc.’s
Diaz said by phone from  New York . “Rates will remain stable at
least in the coming months.”  The central bank will keep rates on hold through August
before increasing them to 5.25 percent by November and 5.5
percent by May 2014, according to the median estimate of 58
traders and investors polled by the bank on May 8.  Risks Remain  Policy makers at last month’s meeting discussed raising
rates by a quarter-point before voting unanimously for a hold,
saying they didn’t want to surprise investors who forecast a
pause and that consumer-price pressures still existed.  “The risk of an acceleration of underlying inflation, as a
result of the tight conditions in the labor market and use of
installed capacity, still remained,” the bank said in the
minutes. “For the moment, those risks haven’t materialized.”  Inflation has declined in the past two months, reaching 3.5
percent in April, after exceeding the upper limit of the central
bank’s target range in the three months through February.
Gasoline prices have slipped in the last two weeks while food
and beverage prices contracted in April from the previous month.  Policy makers target 3 percent inflation, plus or minus 1
percentage point over two years.  In  Latin America , only Mexico and  Colombia  have lower
inflation than Chile. Those two countries kept borrowing costs
unchanged in their latest monetary policy meetings, with Mexican
central bankers signaling a willingness to cut as inflation
continues to ease.  Traders’ Bets  As Europe’s debt crisis worsens, some traders in Chile have
even started betting on a rate cut. The two-year  interest rate 
swap, which reflects traders’ views of average borrowing costs,
closed below 5 percent on May 15 for the first time since
February.  “It’s pricing in a cut,” Sebastian Ide, head of rates
trading at Banco de Chile in Santiago, said May 15. “The
external situation is very bad, but the local situation is so
good that we’re not close to a rate cut yet. If the next local
data come out positive, this will revert.”  Chile’s central bank tomorrow is scheduled to publish data
on first-quarter gross domestic product. The bank’s Imacec
index, which serves as a proxy for GDP, expanded 5.6 percent
from the previous year. That would be the biggest gain since the
second quarter of 2011.  That growth will ease, with GDP expanding 4.8 percent in
the second quarter from last year and 4.8 percent for all of
2012, according to the median estimate of 60 economists surveyed
by the central bank on May 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 