-- China Swaps Reach 5-Month Low as Reserve-Ratio Cut Takes Effect
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-17T02:40:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/china-swaps-reach-5-month-low-as-reserve-ratio-cut-takes-effect.html
China ’s one-year interest-rate swap
dropped to a five-month low on speculation the central bank will
ensure there’s ample cash supply in the financial system to
support lending and economic growth.  The 12-month swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, declined for a
ninth day before the latest reserve-ratio cut for lenders takes
effect tomorrow. The Shanghai Securities News reported that net
lending at China’s four-biggest banks was  almost zero  during the
first two weeks of this month.  “China’s growth outlook doesn’t look good,” said Guo Caomin, a bond analyst at Industrial Bank Co. in Shanghai. “The
market expects the central bank will continue to take measures
to ensure loose liquidity.”  The swap contract fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 2.75 percent as of 10:28 a.m. in  Shanghai ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It earlier touched 2.67
percent, the lowest level since Dec. 7.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, dropped 10 basis points to 2.69 percent,
according to a weighted average compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center.  China’s central bank drained 64 billion  yuan  ($10.1 billion)
from the financial system this week, compared with an injection
of 41 billion yuan last week, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. The reserve-ratio cut will add more than 400 billion
yuan to the market, according to Industrial Bank’s Guo.  The monetary authority issued 30 billion yuan of 91-day
repurchase contracts today, according to a statement on the
central bank’s website.  The yield on the 3.51 percent government bonds due February
2022 dropped five basis points to 3.36 percent, according to the
Interbank Funding Center.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Simon Harvey,  James Regan   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 