-- China Expands Scope for Short Selling, Securities Journal Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-17T03:17:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/china-expands-scope-for-short-selling-securities-journal-says.html
China  will start a trial next week
that will allow brokerages to borrow stocks for clients wishing
to conduct short selling, the China Securities Journal reported.  Brokerages can also borrow money on behalf of clients for
margin financing, the newspaper reported today, without saying
where it got the information. Twenty-five securities companies
will participate in the test, along with the stock exchange,
fund management companies and China Securities Finance Co.,
which was set up as an agency to provide funds and stocks for
brokerages’ short selling and margin trading. The journal is a
publication affiliated with the official Xinhua News Agency.  “This will help brokerages to expand their margin
financing and short selling businesses,” said Wu Kan, a
Shanghai-based  fund manager  at Dazhong Insurance Co., which
oversees $285 million. “With a system in place, brokerages now
can borrow money and stocks from other financial institutions to
meet clients’ needs.”  Guo Shuqing , who was appointed chairman of the China
Securities Regulatory Commission in October, wants to expand the
scope of brokerages’ businesses as part of his drive to bolster
the nation’s stock market. China’s benchmark  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  has climbed 6.9 percent in 2012 after slumping combined 33
percent over the past two years.  China broadened the securities eligible for margin trading
and short sales in December to include stocks in the Shanghai
Stock Exchange 180 Index and four open-ended exchange-traded
funds including the China 50 ETF.  Eligible Brokerages  The securities regulator has approved 25 brokerages to
start trials of  margin trading  and short selling since January
2010. Citic Securities Co., GF Securities Co. and Haitong
Securities Co. are among the first batch to start the business.  Citic Securities, the biggest listed broker, rose 2.2
percent to 13.10  yuan  at 10:53 a.m. in Shanghai, while Haitong
gained 1.9 percent to 10 yuan. Short selling is the sale of
borrowed shares with the hope of profiting when they fall.
Previously, brokerages were only allowed to lend stocks on their
own books.  China may allow brokerages to borrow as much as 90 billion
yuan ($14.2 billion) to fund their margin trading and short
selling, according to calculations based on the securities
regulator’s proposal.  China Securities Finance would set aside 10 percent of its
annual profit as reserves to hedge against operational losses,
according to a draft posted on China Securities Regulatory
Commission’s website in August last year. The ceiling for short-
selling is 5 percent of a certain equity’s total market value,
while the ceiling for margin trading is 10 percent, according to
the draft.  --Zhang Shidong. With assistance from Regina Tan in Beijing.
Editors: Allen Wan, Shiyin Chen  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in  Shanghai  at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  