-- China Coal Imports Rise 90% in April, Coal Association Says
-- B y   W i n n i e   Z h u   a n d   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n
-- 2012-05-17T08:31:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/china-coal-imports-rise-90-in-april-coal-association-says-1-.html
Coal imports by  China  almost doubled
in April from a year earlier, according to the China Coal
Transport and Distribution Association.  The nation’s purchases of the power-station and steelmaking
fuel including lignite, or brown coal, from overseas rose 90
percent to 25.1 million metric tons, the association said in a
statement on its website today, citing customs data.  Imports will accelerate in coming months as demand for
power generation increases and international prices remain lower
than domestic costs, according to  Jeffrey Landsberg , president
of Commodore Research & Consultancy in  New York . China is the
world’s biggest coal user.  “We remain very bullish regarding upcoming prospects for
Chinese coal imports because regional thermal-coal export prices
remain very low,” Landsberg said in an e-mail received today.
“In the summer months ahead, we expect electricity production
will continue to increase rapidly and will set several new
records.”  China’s  power output  rose 0.7 percent in April from a year
ago to 371.8 billion kilowatt hours, according to the National
Bureau of Statistics. That was the smallest growth in a non-
Lunar New Year holiday month in almost three years. Electricity
generation was a record 426 billion kilowatt-hours in August.
About 80 percent of the nation’s power plants are coal-fired.  Coal Prices  Benchmark thermal coal prices at China’s Qinhuangdao port
fell to a range of 775  yuan  ($123) to 785 yuan a ton as of May
13 compared with a week earlier, according to data from China
Coal Transport.  Power-station coal at  Australia ’s Newcastle port slipped to
$98.35 a ton, the lowest price in 19 months, as of May 11,
according to IHS McCloskey data.  Indonesian coal with a heating value of 5,500 kilocalories
a kilogram on a net as-received basis for shipments to South
China for June declined 50 cents to $96.35 a ton yesterday,
Ginga Petroleum Singapore Pte Ltd, an energy broker, said in an
e-mailed report today.  Coal consumption is declining and inventories are rising as
imports increase, putting downward pressure on prices, according
to the coal association in today’s statement.  Daily coal use by China’s power plants fell for a second
month, sliding 11 percent to 3.54 million tons in April from
March, it said. Coal stockpiles at utilities rose to 83.5
million tons, or 23.6 days of use, on April 30, up from 19.3
days at the end of March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Winnie Zhu in Singapore at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net ;
Dinakar Sethuraman in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  