-- China Car Glut Seen Spreading Like ‘Contagious Disease’
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-18T04:20:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/china-car-dealerships-struggle-as-stockpiles-increase.html
Chinese dealers are struggling with
the rising number of unsold cars that’s threatening to deepen
price cuts, according to the nation’s biggest automobile
dealers’ association.  Dealerships for  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , Chery Automobile Co.,  BYD
Co. (002594)  and  Geely (175)  Automobile Holdings Ltd. carried more than 45 days
of inventory as of the end of April, exceeding the threshold
that foreshadows debilitating price cuts, Su Hui, vice president
of the auto market division at the state-backed China Automobile
Dealers Association, said in an interview yesterday.  “Unsold cars are crowding dealer lots in cities from
 Guangzhou  in the south to Xi’an to the west,” Su said in a
phone interview yesterday from Beijing. “It’s like a contagious
disease that will spread.”  The warning signals that vehicle deliveries reported by
companies, which have risen more than analysts’ estimates for
the past two months, aren’t fully translating to consumer sales.
Demand was the slowest in the first four months since 1998,
weighing on automakers from  General Motors Co. (GM)  to  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,
which are counting on the world’s largest auto market to offset
slumping sales in  Europe .  Intensifying Competition  “Competition will get fiercer,” said Huang Wenlong, a
Hong Kong-based analyst with BOC International Holdings Ltd.
“China’s auto demand will definitely slow down with the decline
of the economic growth rate.”  BYD (1211)  fell 4 percent to HK$15.22 at the midday trading break
in  Hong Kong , poised for its lowest close since Oct. 24, after
earlier dropping as much as 5.4 percent. Geely dropped as much
as 3.4 percent and  Guangzhou Automobile Group Co. (2238) , which makes
cars with Honda, fell as much as 2.7 percent.  An increasing number of small-scale dealers are suffering
losses after discounting cars to boost sales, according to Feng
Jian, deputy general manager of  Pang Da Automobile Trade Co. (601258) ,
China’s second-largest auto dealer by market value. Competition
is also leading to consolidation among dealers, Feng said.  China Yongda Automobiles Services Holdings Ltd., a
Shanghai-based car retailer, plans to raise as much as HK$3.4
billion ($433 million) from an  initial public offering  in Hong
Kong and plans to use 35 percent of the proceeds on potential
acquisitions.  Recommendation Cut  Honda’s joint venture factory in China shut down for more
than two weeks for the Labor Day public holiday and line
maintenance, according to the Tokyo-based automaker. The
stoppage prompted CLSA Asia Pacific Markets to cut its
recommendation on Honda’s partner, Guangzhou Automobile, citing
worsening demand.  “While we had expected a poor first half, we did not
expect to see the market deteriorate so fast that the Honda JV
needed to close the factory for 16 days,”  Scott Laprise ,
Beijing-based analyst at CLSA, said in a May 11 report.  Honda President Takanobu Ito said yesterday in  Tokyo  that
he wasn’t too concerned about China because the market still has
room to expand. Executive Vice President  Tetsuo Iwamura  said at
the same event the automaker’s inventory levels in China are
appropriate and “aren’t too big of an issue yet.”  CLSA this month also lowered its recommendations on
Dongfeng Motor Group Co. and  Great Wall Motor Co. (2333) , citing
worsening prospects for sedan makers.  China ZhengTong Auto Services Holdings Ltd. (1728)  and Baoxin Auto
Group Ltd., Chinese luxury auto dealers, canceled plans to sell
dollar-denominated bonds on May 16 as yields on Chinese debt in
the U.S. currency surged the most since September.  Vehicle Sales  China’s total vehicle sales declined 1.3 percent in the
January-to-April period, the worst showing since 1998 when
deliveries fell 1.6 percent, according to data compiled by the
China Association of Automobile Manufacturers, as slowing
economic growth and rising fuel prices dented consumer demand.  GM, the world’s largest automaker, reported sales growth
accelerated last month as demand for its Wuling minivans offset
a drop in Chevrolet deliveries. While Wuling helped total growth
quicken to 12 percent from 11 percent in March, Buick sales
growth slowed to 1.7 percent from a year earlier and demand for
Chevrolet vehicles shrank 6.2 percent.  Inventory levels at automakers rose 3.3 percent to 757,400
units as of the end of April, the highest in at least 16 months,
CAAM data show. Dealerships are holding at least the equivalent
in stock, according to Cheng Xiaodong, who oversees auto price
monitoring at the National Development and Reform Commission,
the nation’s top economic planner.  The monthly NDRC survey of 36 major Chinese cities showed
average car prices fell 1.9 percent in April from a year
earlier, a fourth straight decline this year.  ‘Big Pressure’  “There’s pretty big pressure on auto dealers and
automakers to cut prices,” said NDRC’s Cheng. “Car demand is
not rigid and is easily undermined by macroeconomic conditions
and the cost of owning cars.”  Pacific Investment Management Co., which oversees the
world’s largest bond fund, said this month that  China ’s economic
growth may slow to the “mid-7 percent range,” a pace unseen
since 1999. Economists at Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase &
Co. cut their estimates for China’s economic expansion after
April industrial production and trade grew less than estimated
and renewed European debt turmoil roiled markets, prompting
authorities on May 12 to cut the reserve ratio for the third
time in six months.  Steeper discounts bode well for consumers shopping for
their next drive.  “The auto consumer is becoming very price sensitive and
appears to be buying only if there is a good deal,” said Ole Hui, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd.
“Pricing is definitely on a structural downtrend.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  