-- China May Approve Nuclear Plan Next Month, Official Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-17T10:17:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/china-likely-to-approve-nuclear-plan-by-end-june-official-says.html
China ’s state council, or Cabinet,
will probably hold a meeting before the end of June to approve
safety and development plans for the nuclear industry, according
to Xu Yuming, the vice secretary general of the  China Nuclear
Energy Association .  The government can resume approval of new nuclear plants
after the plans are passed, Xu said before a  conference  in
Beijing today. The plan was rejected earlier and amendments are
being made to some “minor” details, he said, without
elaborating.  China suspended new nuclear projects after last year’s
earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  crippled the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
plant and prompted a global review of atomic energy plants. The
policy has hurt China’s major nuclear power equipment makers,
including Shanghai Electric Group Co., Dongfang Electric Corp.
and Harbin Electric Co., which had long-term contracts frozen.  “The timing is a bit more positive than news from last
week that it may be as late as July for a State Council decision
on approvals,” said Guo Shou, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
 Barclays Capital . “From a public image point of view, it may be
difficult for the government to be very aggressive in setting
targets for 2020 plans.”  Construction hasn’t started on four nuclear reactors that
were approved prior to the Fukushima disaster, according to Xu.
The reactors are Yangjiang Nos. 4, 5 and 6, and Fuqing No. 4, he
said. Two new reactors will begin operations by the end of the
year, he said. The facilities at Hongyanhe and Ningde resumed
construction after a nationwide safety inspection that started
in April 2011.  Nuclear Safety Regulation  The State Council will hold a second round of talks on
nuclear safety and the mid- and long-term atomic power
development plans, Xinhua News Agency said on May 10, citing
Wang Binghua, chairman of the State Nuclear Power Technology
Corp. Xinhua didn’t provide details.  China’s Cabinet has yet to pass a safety plan for nuclear
plants, Caixin magazine reported on May 11.  The nuclear power safety regulation is ready and a draft
will be submitted to the State Council after minor adjustments,
the environmental protection ministry said in a statement on its
website on Dec. 12. The regulation, prepared by the China
Nuclear Safety Administration, a division of the ministry,
outlines rules and goals for nuclear safety by 2020.  Passage of the safety regulations and atomic power
development plans are the two key conditions to resume China’s
nuclear expansion plans, Li Yongjiang, vice president of the
China Nuclear Energy Association, said in January.  Nuclear-Capacity Plans  China, which started its first commercial nuclear plant in
1994, is building at least 27 reactors and has 50 more planned,
according to the association.  The country may have 70 gigawatts of installed nuclear
power capacity and 30 gigawatts under construction by the end of
the decade, Xu said today. It may have 200 gigawatts of
installed capacity by 2030, he said.  The 2020 target may be scaled back to 60 gigawatts to 70
gigawatts, Li told Bloomberg in October.  China will limit the number of reactors to be built on the
coast, the State Oceanic Administration said on April 7 last
year. The country, which is constructing more reactors than any
other nation, has at least 14 atomic units in operation and more
than 25 under construction, according to  reports  from the  World
Nuclear Association .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chua Baizhen in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net ;
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Gordon  at 
 pgordon6@bloomberg.net  