-- China’s Stocks Rise Most in Two Weeks on Consumption
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-17T07:32:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/china-s-stock-futures-rise-on-policy-easing-bets-consumption.html
China’s stocks  rose, driving the
benchmark index to its biggest gain in two weeks, on speculation
the government will boost spending and ease monetary policy to
stem a deeper economic slowdown.  Suning Appliance Co. (002024) , China’s biggest home appliance
retailer by market value, and washing machine maker Hefei
Rongshida Sanyo Electric Co. climbed at least 1.7 percent after
the government said it will provide subsidies to promote energy-
saving appliances.  Citic Securities Co. (600030)  and GF Securities Co.
led a gauge of financial stocks to its biggest gain among
industry groups after the China Securities Journal said the
regulator may allow brokerages to expand short selling.  “The household appliance stimulus has boosted expectations
that similar packages will follow to stimulate the economy and
consumption,” said Wu Kan, a Shanghai-based  fund manager  at
Dazhong Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million. “The policy
tone has shifted to maintaining economic growth.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed for the first time in
five days, rising 32.69 points, or 1.4 percent, to 2,378.89 at
the close, the biggest gain since May 2. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300) 
advanced 1.5 percent to 2,613.94. The  Bloomberg China-US 55
Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese
companies, retreated 1 percent at the close in  New York 
yesterday.  The Shanghai gauge has climbed 8.2 percent this year on
expectations the central bank will ease monetary policies to
spur growth. Stocks in the index are valued at 10.2 times
estimated earnings, compared with a record low of 8.9 times on
Jan. 6, according to weekly  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Appliance Subsidies  A gauge of consumer discretionary companies in the CSI 300
rose 1.8 percent, the second-biggest gain among the 10 industry
groups. Suning Appliance added 1.7 percent to 9.87  yuan . Hefei
Rongshida surged 7.8 percent to 9.17 yuan.  GD Midea Holding Co. (000527) ,
China’s second-biggest publicly traded appliance maker, added
1.8 percent to 13.89 yuan.  China will allocate 26.5 billion yuan ($4.2 billion) in
subsidies to promote the use of energy-saving household
appliances and products, replacing a consumption-incentive
program that ended last year, according to a statement posted on
the government’s website yesterday, citing a State Council
meeting at which Premier  Wen Jiabao  presided.  The nation will also allocate a further 6 billion yuan of
subsidies for purchases of vehicles with engines of less than
1.6 liters, it said.  BYD Co., the automaker part-owned by  Warren Buffett ’s
Berkshire Hathaway Inc., advanced 4 percent to 25.12 yuan.  SAIC
Motor Corp. (600104) , China’s largest carmaker, rose 2.3 percent to 15.47
yuan. Chongqing Changan Automobile Co., the Chinese partner of
Ford Motor Co. and Mazda Motor Corp., climbed 3 percent to 4.83
yuan.  Mulling Stimulus  China is studying policies to boost domestic consumption
and approve “major” infrastructure construction projects aimed
at improving people’s livelihood, the Economic Information Daily
reported, without saying where it got the information.  Supervising land used for expanding domestic consumption
and increasing structural tax cuts are also policies being
considered, the report said.  A measure tracking banks, developers and brokerages in the
CSI 300 jumped 2 percent today. Citic Securities, China’s
biggest listed brokerage, gained 3.8 percent to 13.31 yuan. GF
Securities, the second largest, added 5.9 percent to 33.10 yuan.
 Haitong Securities Co. (600837) , the third biggest, rose 4.5 percent to
10.25 yuan.  China will start a trial next week that will allow
brokerages to borrow stocks for clients wishing to conduct short
selling, the China Securities Journal reported. Brokers can also
borrow money on behalf of clients for margin financing, the
newspaper reported, without saying where it got the information.  Short Selling  Twenty-five securities companies will participate in the
test, along with the stock exchange, fund management companies
and China Securities Finance Co., which was set up as an agency
to provide funds and stocks for brokerages’ short selling and
margin trading.  Thirty-day  volatility  in the Shanghai Composite was at
15.16 today, near a two-month low. About 7.7 billion shares
changed hands yesterday, 15 percent lower than the daily average
this year.  The Shanghai index has dropped 3.3 percent from this year’s
high set on March 2 on concern  China ’s slowdown in economic
growth is accelerating. Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
Bank of America Corp. and UBS AG were among banks to pare their
forecasts for China’s expansion following last week’s data,
which included the weakest industrial production growth in three
years.  No Hard Landing  Bank of America said the economy will have a so-called soft
landing and the chance of a  hard landing  is “quite small.”  The Chinese government will boost efforts to support growth
by accelerating spending in social housing and infrastructure,
approving new projects and easing bank lending restrictions,
Bank of America economist Lu Ting said in a report.  China’s economic growth is likely to accelerate for the
first time in seven quarters after banks’ reserve  requirements 
were cut, buoying global expansion threatened by  Greece ’s
possible exit from the euro.  Third-quarter  growth  will rebound to 8.3 percent from 7.9
percent this quarter, according to the median estimate of 21
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Analysts forecast a
further reduction of 100 basis points in reserve ratios this
year, while a majority of respondents expect benchmark lending
and deposit rates to be unchanged.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  