-- China to Allow Local Private Companies to Bid in Shale Auction
-- B y   G u o   A i b i n g
-- 2012-05-17T08:03:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/china-to-allow-local-private-companies-to-bid-in-shale-auction.html
China, holder of the world’s biggest
shale-gas reserves, will allow privately owned local companies
to bid for the rights to explore for the unconventional fuel
when it holds the country’s second auction of areas.  Chinese companies planning to participate in the auction
must have a minimum registered capital of 300 million  yuan  ($47
million) and apply to qualify for bidding before May 25, the
Ministry of Land and Resources said in a  statement  on its
website today. The country first auctioned shale areas in June
and awarded blocks to two of the six state-owned companies that
were invited.  China has yet to produce shale gas commercially as its
explorers struggle to overcome the lack of domestic drilling
expertise and geology that is tougher than in the U.S., where
output has surged 15-fold in the past decade. The government has
pledged to prioritize land approvals, allow tax-free equipment
imports and offer subsidies to explorers.  “It’s obvious the second round of shale gas auctions is
getting near and it’s a good sign for the development of  China ’s
shale gas industry,” Zhang Jinchuan, a professor of geology at
the China University of Geosciences in Beijing and an adviser to
the land ministry, said by telephone. Large-scale shale gas
exploration across the country could start “in the second
half,” Zhang said.  The country holds 25.08 trillion cubic meters of
exploitable reserves of the fuel trapped in shale rock, the
ministry said March 1, citing a nationwide survey.  Overseas Companies  The ministry said only local companies can participate in
the auction.  Overseas companies will remain barred from bidding directly
and can invest in ventures led by local explorers, Zhang
Jianfeng, a director at the ministry’s research institute, said
in an interview on April 23. More than 100 Chinese companies
have qualified for the auction and the government will offer at
least 20 areas, Zhang said.  The Chinese government will hold one or two auctions of
shale-gas blocks this year, the land ministry said on March 1.
 China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386) , the nation’s second-largest
oil company, and Henan Provincial Coal Seam Gas Development and
Utilization Co. won the exploration rights in June.  The country aims to produce 6.5 billion cubic meters of
shale gas annually by 2015 and ramp up output to between 60
billion and 100 billion by the end of the decade, the National
Development and Reform Commission said, citing a plan drafted by
the National Energy Administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  