-- Citigroup Sued by South Korea’s Woori Bank Over CDO Losses
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-05-17T22:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/citigroup-sued-by-south-korea-s-woori-bank-over-cdo-losses-1-.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  was sued by Woori Bank
to recover losses from the Seoul-based lender’s
$95 million investment in collateralized debt obligations it
claims were fraudulently sold.  Woori claims Citigroup led it to invest during 2006 and
2007 in fraudulent CDOs and related products. Citigroup used
misleading credit ratings to mask the fact that many of the
mortgages underlying its CDOs and residential mortgage-backed
securities, or RMBS, were likely to default, Woori said in its
complaint filed May 15 in federal court in New York.  Citigroup “never disclosed to plaintiff -- and indeed
affirmatively misrepresented and/or concealed -- the fact that
the ratings on the CDOs purchased by plaintiff falsely portrayed
the riskiness of the investments,” Woori said in the complaint.  Woori said in its complaint that it bought interests in
five CDOs from Citigroup and had to sell them later at a loss.
Citigroup used the CDOs “to move toxic mortgages off their
balance sheet and onto those of plaintiff,” Woori claimed.  Woori claimed that, beginning in 2006, Citigroup knew that
CDOs were very risky.  ‘Violated Standards’  “Defendants knew that the RMBS that they and other major
banks were packaging into CDOs included a significant percentage
of mortgages that violated basic underwriting standards and were
likely to default,” Woori alleged in the complaint. “Rather
than disclose these material facts to investors in the deals it
arranged, defendants concealed them so that Citigroup could off-
load some of the massive exposure to subprime RMBS that it
carried on its own balance sheet to unsuspecting investors.”  “Citigroup believes the allegations made in the suit are
entirely without merit,”  James Griffiths , a Hong Kong-based
spokesman for New York-based Citigroup, said by phone. “We will
defend the claim vigorously.”  In its complaint, Woori claimed Citigroup is liable for
fraud, negligent misrepresentation and unjust enrichment. The
Korean bank seeks damages of at least $95 million plus
unspecified punitive damages.  Woori Bank is a unit of Woori Finance Holdings Co.,  South
Korea ’s largest financial company by assets.  The case is Woori Bank v Citigroup Inc., 12-CV-3868, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seonjin Cha in  Seoul  at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in federal court in Manhattan at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  