-- Clemens’s Lawyer Says McNamee Changed Story to Fit Case
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-05-17T22:33:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/clemens-s-lawyer-says-mcnamee-changed-story-to-fit-case.html
Brian McNamee , the government’s chief
witness on Roger Clemens’s alleged drug use, repeatedly changed
his story to fit the one federal investigators were putting
together,  Rusty Hardin , a lawyer for the ex-New York Yankees
pitcher, suggested to jurors.  Hardin, questioning McNamee for a third day in Clemens’s
perjury trial in Washington, bore into areas where McNamee
revised what he told prosecutors and Congress after his first
meeting with investigators in June 2007. McNamee, 45, Clemens’s
former trainer, admitted that at first he lied about how many
injections he had given and later raised the number.  “They’re deciding what the truth was, wasn’t it?” Hardin
asked.  “That’s not accurate,” McNamee responded.  “If you continued to tell them  Roger Clemens  never used
steroids what would happen to you?” Hardin said. “What do you
think would happen to you?”  “They had the opportunity to lock me up for lying,”
McNamee said.  McNamee, who has been on the witness stand since May 14, is
the government’s only eyewitness to Clemens’s alleged drug use.
He testified that he gave Clemens injections of steroids and
human growth hormone, or HGH, during the 1998, 2000 and 2001
baseball seasons while both worked for the  Toronto Blue Jays  and
the Yankees.  Congressional Investigation  Clemens, a seven-time Cy Young Award winner, is charged
with one count of obstructing a congressional investigation,
three counts of making false statements and two counts of
perjury stemming from his testimony to a House panel
investigating the use of steroids in  Major League Baseball . He
faces as long as 21 months in prison if convicted.  Clemens has denied having used drugs since former Senator
 George Mitchell , acting as a special investigator for Major
League Baseball, released a report on steroid use among
professional ballplayers on Dec. 13, 2007. Mitchell concluded
Clemens used drugs on at least 16 occasions from 1998 to 2001.  Throughout the cross-examination, McNamee admitted to lying
about or “exaggerating,” “minimizing” and “embellishing”
information given to federal investigators, the Mitchell
Commission and lawyers and agents for Clemens.  “I never lied about the usage, just the amounts,” McNamee
said.  Lied Twice  McNamee said he lied twice when asked by federal
investigators and then the Mitchell Commission whether he had
any physical evidence in his possession.  “Can you and I agree that by Dec 31, 2007, you had lied to
various members of the Mitchell Commission and federal agents
and not one blankety-blank thing happened to you?” Hardin
asked. “Is that true?”  “Yes, that’s fair,” McNamee said.  McNamee remained defiant, refusing to be pinned down to
specific dates -- or even years -- by ending several answers
with “give or take.” Hardin sometimes asked some questions two
to three times before getting an answer. He responded to some
questions with his own question.  “Did you tell Mr. Clemens you were talking to
government?” Hardin asked.  “He didn’t ask so I didn’t answer,” McNamee said.  “How could he ask if he didn’t know?” Hardin said.  “How could I answer a question that he never asked?”
McNamee said.  Juror Question  During one break today, the jury asked U.S. District Judge
 Reggie Walton  how much longer the trial would last. Walton then
chastised Hardin for moving too slow.  “When you bore the jurors someone pays the price,” Walton
said. “I’m not sure who that will be.”  Walton already removed two jurors for sleeping during the
proceedings. Hardin said he plans to finish questioning McNamee
tomorrow.  Hardin is seeking to show that McNamee constantly changed
his story about Clemens and can’t be believed. Yesterday he put
up an easel with a flip chart in the courtroom and wrote
“mistakes,” “bad memory” and “lies” on it. He said those
were the three categories he planned to talk about with McNamee.  The easel bearing those words stayed next to McNamee for
most of today’s testimony.  Government’s Case  Clemens, 49, who pitched for the Yankees,  Blue Jays , Astros
and  Boston Red Sox  during a 24-year career, used the anabolic
steroids and HGH to remain competitive as he aged, Assistant
U.S. Attorney Steven Durham said in his opening statement as the
trial began on April 23.  The government’s case includes a needle and cotton with
Clemens’s DNA that tested positive for anabolic steroids, Durham
said.  The material was given to the government by McNamee, who
said he saved needles, gauze and an ampoule from one of the
injections in 2001. He told jurors he kept some of the items in
a Miller Lite beer can that he took from the recycling bin in
Clemens’s apartment.  McNamee appeared to get tripped up during questioning over
previous explanations he’d given as to why he kept the material.
Two days ago, he’d told jurors he kept the material to appease
his wife, who he said knew that he was injecting Clemens with
performance enhancing drugs.  ‘Take Responsibility’  “I was just trying to keep my wife, the mother of my
children, out of this,” McNamee said. “Now she’s involved and
now she has to take responsibility for her actions.”  “What do you mean?” Hardin asked.  McNamee said after he told investigators about the
evidence, the government came to his home, took pictures, and
that his wife had to turn over her DNA.  “What actions does your wife have to take responsibility
for?” Hardin asked.  “She handled the evidence,” McNamee said.  “Why did you say she had her DNA taken?” Hardin asked.  “I don’t know,” McNamee said. He then said he wasn’t sure
what he’d just said was true and that he and his wife no longer
speak. “That was three seconds ago. I apologize to the jury.”  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 1:10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 