-- CME Amends Grain-Trading Plan After Industry Complained
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-05-17T19:58:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/cme-group-trims-grain-trading-plan-to-21-hours-a-day-from-22.html
CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest
futures exchange, amended a proposal for expanded trading in
grains to 21 hours a day after withdrawing an earlier plan for
22 hours that drew complaints from clients.  Trading on CME Group’s Chicago Board of Trade will be from
5 p.m. to 2 p.m. Sunday through Friday, the company said today
in a  statement . The CBOT currently allows trading 17 hours a
day. No date was set for the transition, which will occur “as
soon as possible” and no later than June 4, said Chris Grams, a
spokesman for the Chicago-based company.  CME originally planned to expand access to markets
including corn, soybeans and wheat on May 14 to thwart new
competition from  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) , the energy and
agriculture market known as ICE, which began offering grain
contracts for the first time this week. CME delayed its changes
until May 20, after traders including R.J. O’Brien & Associates
objected. Yesterday, CME withdrew its 22-hour plan in a filing
with the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  “I don’t think they’re confused, I just don’t think CME
wants to do it, but ICE is forcing their hand,” said Dan Kuechenmeister, the manager of the commodities department at RBC
Wealth Management in  Minneapolis . “They were getting a lot of
push-back from the clearing firms.”  Commodity Trading  ICE already allows grain trading 22 hours a day with new
contracts it offered starting May 14, and trading has expanded
in commodity markets, including energy.  Crude oil trades from 6 p.m. to 5:15 p.m. Sunday through
Friday on the CME’s  New York  Mercantile Exchange, and currencies
trade 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Treasury futures on the
Chicago Board of Trade are exchanged 23 hours a day.  “We’ve had reports during trading hours in the financials
and energies for a while, so maybe it’s time to grow up and be
like the rest of them,” said  Tom Leffler , owner of Leffler
Commodities LLC in Augusta, Kansas. “I will admit trying to
digest a report that’s going to swing a market can be
frustrating, but the market can have the same knee-jerk reaction
two minutes after the numbers come out that they have two hours
after the numbers come out.”  The National Grain & Feed Association and the North
American Export Grain Association, the two largest U.S. grain-
handling organizations, objected to CME’s shift to a 22-hour
trading day because markets would be open during the release of
U.S. Department of Agriculture reports, which currently are
published when CBOT trading is closed. The groups said expanded
hours will increase volatility and reduce their ability to make
informed decisions.  Deal Reached  The revised plan for a four-hour increase in trading hours
rather than five was completed after discussions between
exchange officials and the grain groups, CME’s Grams said by
telephone today. Discussions between the groups and CME started
last week and ran through yesterday, said Todd Kemp, NGFA’s
treasurer. Closing CME’s Globex electronic trading system from 2
p.m. to 5 p.m. will allow companies enough time to complete
back-office work, Kemp said.  “If electronic trading stayed open until 4 p.m., that
wouldn’t leave our member companies sufficient time to close
their books,” Kemp said. “There were concerns by companies
about bringing in additional personnel and overtime and employee
quality of life, so moving to the 2 p.m. close addresses those
concerns.”  The NGFA would “prefer” that trading be closed when the
USDA reports are released, Kemp said. The group will work with
the CME and ICE to find a resolution, he said.  More Competition  CME, led by Chairman  Terrence Duffy  and Chief Executive
Officer Phupinder S. Gill, initially sought expanded trading in
corn, soybeans, wheat, soybean meal,  soybean oil , oats and rough
rice after Atlanta-based ICE announced plans on April 12 to
compete directly with the Chicago grain markets. The CBOT’s
corn, soybean and wheat trading jumped more than 13 percent last
year, and holdings in the five biggest contracts were valued at
 $131 billion  in March, exchange data show.  The new ICE contracts have yet to dent CBOT’s market share.
Electronic trading in ICE’s corn futures for July delivery was
769 contracts yesterday, compared with CBOT’s July futures with
156,078 contracts, exchange data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Approval Request  CME Group sought regulatory approval for expanded trading
hours through two different filings. In one, CFTC commissioners
in  Washington  would be able to vote on the request any time,
while the other process involves a “self-certification” by the
exchange that must be submitted at least 10 working days prior
to implementation.  “I am pleased the CME was able to work with the grain
industry to address their concerns and am hopeful the commission
can approve the rule changes expeditiously in order to allow
trading to being on Monday,” Jill Sommers, one of the CFTC’s
five commissioners, said in a statement.  Bart Chilton, another commissioner, said in an e-mail that
the CME’s change “is part of a larger question that deserves
more air time” for regulators and the public. “The tectonic-
plate shifts in our industry, in terms of the types and volumes
of players, deserve careful scrutiny to ensure that the markets
remain true to their intended purposes: price discovery and risk
management,” he said.  Kansas City  In a separate  filing  yesterday with the CFTC, the  Kansas 
City Board of Trade withdrew its request for extended hours of
22 hours a day that match those on the CME. The Kansas City
 exchange  resubmitted the plan as a 21-hour trading day with an
effective date of May 31.  Wheat futures and options will be traded from 5 p.m. to 2
p.m. Sunday through Friday after implementation, Joseph Ott, the
vice president for compliance at the Kansas City Board of Trade,
said in the filing. That’s a change from the exchange’s May 2
filing, which specified trading from 5 p.m. to 4 p.m. Sunday to
Monday and 6 p.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday.  The resubmission was made so the exchange’s hours would be
uniform with the CME hours, Ott said in the filing. An e-mail to
Ott and a call to marketing director Shelia Summers weren’t
returned.  Remain Consistent  “CME is planning to extend Globex trading hours for its
grain contracts,” the Kansas City exchange said in its filing.
The amended plan was filed “in order for KCBT wheat futures and
options electronic trading hours to remain consistent with CME
grains contracts.”  National Grain & Feed Association members had “mixed
views” on the expanded trading hours, Kemp said. Some market
participants will be able to use the longer hours to hedge their
trades in cash markets, while others are dismayed at the
prospect of the additional market monitoring, he said.  “Whether you believe these expanded hours are a good idea
or not, well that’s what’s coming,” Kemp said. “We took the
belief that our task was to structure those expanded hours in a
way that best helped our industry respond to that transition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  