-- Colombia Debt Issuance to Keep Falling in 2013, Suarez Says
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-05-17T20:04:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/colombia-s-debt-issuance-will-keep-falling-in-2013-suarez-says.html
Colombia ’s financing needs will keep
dropping as tax collections rise and the  budget deficit  narrows,
Public Credit Director Maria Fernanda Suarez said.  “We expect the trend to continue in 2013,” Suarez, who
took the post at the beginning of this year, said in an
interview yesterday at her Bogota office. “As we have a lower
deficit to fund, we’re going to have lower financing needs, and
as we take on less debt, we have to issue less in the coming
years because the debt service is less.”  The government will announce new figures for its financing
program by the end of June, Suarez said. Colombia plans to
auction 18.4 trillion pesos ($10 billion) of bonds in the local
market this year, according to the plan announced in December.  Accelerating economic growth and rising foreign direct
investment are bolstering  tax revenue  and making the government
less reliant on credit markets. Colombia’s central bank
forecasts  South America ’s fourth-biggest economy will expand as
much as 6 percent this year, driven by consumer demand even as
turmoil in  Europe  hurts global growth.  Tax collection rose to 21.9 trillion pesos in the first
quarter, 3.4 trillion pesos above the target, according to the
government. Revenue may rise to as high as 103 trillion pesos
this year, tax agency director Juan Ricardo Ortega told
lawmakers yesterday, higher than the government’s initial target
of 88 trillion pesos. Tax collection surged 25 percent in 2011
to 83.7 trillion pesos.  Too Steep  The central government budget deficit this year may be 2.4
percent of  gross domestic product , below the 2.6 percent of GDP
target, Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said April 27.
The budget deficit narrowed to 2.8 percent last year.  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent peso-denominated debt
due in July 2024 fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 7.16 percent, according to the central bank.  Colombia’s local peso bond  curve  is too steep compared to
peers in  Latin America  including Mexico,  Chile  and  Peru , said
Suarez, who was chief investment officer in pension fund
Porvenir SA for six years before joining the Finance Ministry.  While the extra yield investors seek to hold Colombian
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries is similar to the spread
in Mexico or Peru, local market yields “are higher than we’d
like,” said Suarez.  Fiscal Outlook  “If the local market incorporated the credit risk outlook
observed in the international market, we should see a flatter
local curve,” Suarez said. “It should continue to flatten
given the positive fiscal outlook and stable inflation
expectations.”  The gap between yields on Colombian government fixed-rate
peso bonds due July 2024 and April 2013 is 181 basis points, or
1.81 percentage points. That compares to the 166 basis point gap
for similar-maturity fixed-rate debt in  Mexico .  The extra yield investors seek to hold Colombian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries is 190 basis points, according
to JPMorgan Chase’s EMBIG index. That compares to 226 basis
points in Mexico, 193 in Peru and 172 in Chile.  The economy’s 5.9 percent growth last year was the fastest
since gross domestic product jumped 6.9 percent in 2007, the
most in three decades. Colombia expects  foreign direct
investment  to rise to $16 billion this year, up from a record
$13.2 billion in 2011.  ‘Coordinated’ Debt Issuance  The government will coordinate with the central bank should
policy makers decide to issue debt to reduce liquidity in the
market, Suarez said.  The central bank can issue bonds to lower the amount of
local currency, according to a resolution published on its
website April 30. The statement came after Banco de la Republica
announced the bank will buy a minimum of $20 million daily in
the  spot market  until at least Nov. 2, extending the program by
three months as officials seek to ease the peso’s gains. The
central bank hasn’t said if it plans to issue bonds.  The peso dropped 0.7 percent to 1,806.10 per  U.S. dollar ,
paring its rally this year to 7.3 percent, still the best
performance among all currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Inflation Bonds  “We will have a coordinated issuance policy” should the
need arise, Suarez said. “Our objective is that the bonds that
the government issues for its financing needs don’t compete with
notes for monetary control.”  The  Finance Ministry  in February suspended auctions of its
short-term notes, known as TCOs, for the first half of 2012 as
increased cash holdings reduced the need for liquidity. Suarez
didn’t say if the government will issue TCOs in the second half
of 2012.  Colombia may issue inflation-linked peso bonds, known as
TES UVR, due in 30 or 40 years in 2012 following requests from
investors for the securities, Suarez said.  “We don’t have a specific need but, if there is demand
from the market and it’s at an adequate cost to the nation, we
are open” to offering the debt, Suarez said. It would be a one-
time sale and would be included as part of the 18.4 trillion
pesos of debt auctions planned for this year, she said.  The government will issue new TES UVR securities in the
second half of the year  as part of its plan  to have benchmark
fixed-rate bonds, known as TES, due in five, 10 and 15 years and
benchmark inflation-linked securities due in five, 10 and 20
years, said Suarez. Colombia this month issued new 7 percent TES
due May 2022 which will become the 10-year benchmark bond.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  