-- Comcast to Test Charging Heavy Web Users on Data Amount
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-05-17T20:42:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/comcast-to-test-charging-heavy-web-users-on-data-amount-1-.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the largest U.S.
broadband provider, said it will test charging more from
Internet customers whose monthly data usage exceeds a certain
limit, joining rivals as online video becomes more popular.  As part of the test, customers in some markets who reach a
monthly limit of 300 gigabytes of data can purchase additional
capacity, for example 50 gigabytes for $10, Philadelphia-based
Comcast said today in a  blog posting .  Comcast, also the biggest U.S. cable carrier, is following
competitors such as  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  in trying different
ways to charge for  Internet access  as consumers increasingly
watch online video, limiting demand for traditional pay-TV
services. Comcast reported its 20th consecutive quarterly
decline in television subscribers this month.  “Times have changed,”  David Cohen , a Comcast executive
vice president, said on a conference call. “We want to send a
message to even the most intensive high-bandwidth customers that
they are welcome.”  Comcast is eliminating its current 250 gigabyte cap to
allow all customers to freely use as much broadband as they’d
like if they pay for it, Cohen said. The vast majority of
Comcast’s customers don’t use “anywhere near” 300 gigabytes,
Executive Vice President Cathy Avgiris said. The median Comcast
customer uses 8 gigabytes to 10 gigabytes, she said.  To reach the 300 gigabyte limit, a customer needs to watch
about 100 high-definition movies a month, said  Vijay Jayant , an
analyst at ISI Group in New York.  “It’s a start to rein in the guys that are excessive
users,” Jayant said.  Netflix, Hulu  Comcast fell 1.7 percent to $28.35 at the close in New
York. The  stock  has advanced 20 percent this year.  Internet users  are consuming more data each year as they
watch online video from services such as  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and Hulu
LLC. Netflix Chief Executive Officer  Reed Hastings  has said
Comcast’s 250 gigabyte cap was “not a near-term issue” for his
company, though he has expressed concern that companies such as
Comcast could decrease the threshold.  Comcast said today its customers will be warned when they
approach the cap and will be charged a fee for excess usage if
they do not buy additional capacity, Avgiris said.  Comcast’s Xfinity TV app for Microsoft Corp.’s Xbox doesn’t
count toward the 300 gigabyte threshold, Cohen said. Comcast
doesn’t count usage from the application because the video comes
from Comcast’s private network rather than the public Internet.  ‘Discourage Subscribers’  “The notion that Comcast would charge an exorbitant rate
for additional bandwidth -- while continuing to exempt its own
traffic under its Xbox deal -- illustrates that Comcast is
really trying to discourage subscribers from experimenting with
online video alternatives,” said Joel Kelsey, a policy adviser
at Washington-based Free Press, in an e-mailed statement. His
organization promotes wide access to communications.  Time Warner Cable, the No. 2 U.S. cable provider after
Comcast, said in March it was testing an optional usage-based
plan. Time Warner Cable CEO Glenn Britt has said consumption-
based billing is “inevitable” for the broadband industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  