-- Commercial-Mortgage Bonds Slide as $9 Billion Weighs on Market
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-05-17T15:38:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/commercial-mortgage-bonds-slide-as-9-billion-weighs-on-market.html
Commercial-mortgage securities are
slumping as a flood of bonds dumped on the market during the
past month weighs on values amid mounting concerns that  Europe ’s
debt crisis can’t be contained.  Relative yields on top-ranked debt tied to property loans
have climbed 14 basis points in May to 200 basis points more
than Treasuries, the highest level in more than a month,
according to a Barclays Plc index. Bonds that are perceived to
be of lower quality were pressured the most, Credit Suisse Group
AG analysts said in a report today.  The  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  and UBS AG sold $9
billion in bonds tied to skyscrapers, shopping malls and hotels,
in two auctions, starting with the district bank’s record sale
on April 26. Demand for the debt exceeded expectations, even
while the deluge of lower-rated securities has reduced values,
according to Credit Suisse.  “Macro concerns may be the initial impetus for the move
over the past several days,” said the New York-based analysts
led by Roger Lehman. “Renewed concerns over European sovereign
risk, and specifically the future of  Greece  staying in the  euro
zone , have been a factor as has JP Morgan’s announced losses
from derivative trading,” the analysts wrote. “Pressure has
been exaggerated by the new supply.”  Investors “appear” to have started to sell bonds from the
so-called Max deals, two collateralized debt obligations assumed
by the Fed in the rescue of American International Group Inc.
and held in its Maiden III LLC portfolio, according to Credit
Suisse.  Fed Postpones Sale  The New York Fed postponed a sale that had been scheduled
to be completed today of $1.7 billion of home-loan debt
contained in the same portfolio.  The Max deals had a face value of about $7.5 billion, of
which $3.4 billion was cut to junk after being granted top
grades at issuance, according to Citigroup Inc. data. Those
bonds, typically traded by  hedge funds  and Wall Street dealers,
are probably in for a “bumpier ride” than debt carrying top
grades, Citigroup analysts led by Jeffrey Berenbaum, who is
based in  New York , said in a report last month following the
Fed’s auction.  Barclays and Morgan Stanley were the winning bidders on
$1.5 billion of securities similar to the Max deals sold by UBS
last week, according to people familiar with the sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  