-- How Competition Is Killing Higher Education
-- B y   M a r k   C .   T a y l o r
-- 2012-05-17T23:02:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/competition-is-killing-higher-education-part-1-.html
Competition, we are constantly told,
encourages individuals, institutions and companies to take the
risks necessary for innovation and efficiency. But in higher
education, competition often discourages risk taking, leads to
overly cautious short-term decisions, produces a mediocre
product for the price, and promotes excessive spending on
physical plants and bureaucracies.  The construction arms race on campus is the most visible
example of competition run amok. To become more attractive to
potential consumers, many colleges and universities undertake
overly ambitious expansions. In some cases, new facilities
contribute to educational programs, but too often they are
tangential and trap institutions in a costly cycle: The new
athletic center, dorm or student center  starts to look faded 
when competing schools open theirs, and it never ends.  It’s about “keeping up with the Joneses,” an official at
Wright State University said in a Dayton Daily News  article  last
fall detailing why colleges in  Ohio  were spending hundreds of
millions of dollars on student centers and other nonacademic
attractions in a down economy. In  Georgia , state legislators are
 reviewing questionable practices  used to fund 173 projects to
build student housing, parking garages, stadiums and recreation
centers.  Private universities with large endowments often start the
cycle. Schools such as  Harvard University  and  New York
University , for example, take on billion-dollar debts. In a
trickle-down effect, less affluent schools also feel pressure to
borrow and spend -- money they do not have.  Gaming the System  This is not the only cause of financial difficulties, but
it makes them worse. Richard Kneedler, who was president of
Franklin and Marshall College in  Pennsylvania  for 14 years,
 estimated  in 2009 that an astonishing two-thirds of the 700
private colleges he studied were at risk of financial failure.  Obsession with school rankings is another way that
competition has warped higher education in the past few decades.
College presidents, administrators and professors dismiss the
importance of the U.S. News and World Report  survey  and other
ratings, but they are always looking for ways to gain advantage.  I’ll give an example from  Williams College , where I taught
for 37 years. A decade ago, the new president conducted a review
of the school’s tutorial program, which was modeled on one at
the University of Oxford. The tutorials consisted of eight to 10
students who met with a professor weekly in groups of two to
three to discuss papers they had written. The new administration
opted to expand the tutorials -- a choice based on more than
academics.  Williams had dropped from first to third in the U.S. News
rankings, a matter of concern on campus and among alumni. One
way the school could reclaim its top position was by reducing
overall class size and decreasing the faculty-student ratio.
When the faculty voted to increase the number of tutorials, the
administration changed its accounting system without announcing
it. A tutorial consisting of 10 students, for example, that met
three times in groups of three or four counted as three classes.
Maybe it was a coincidence, but within a couple of years
Williams was again No. 1 on the U.S. News list.  Doctoral Degree Glut  Graduate schools also try to game the ratings system, and
their competition is global. Every year, leading research
universities anxiously await the  Academic Ranking of World
Universities , the World’s Best Universities: Top 400 and the
 Times Higher Education World University Rankings .  These lists affect the recruitment of top students and the
level of financial support. Schools engage in bidding wars for
so-called star faculty who are supposed to bring prestige to
graduate programs and help attract lucrative private and
government grants.  Second- and third-tier universities often create unneeded
doctoral programs to become eligible for additional federal
support and to increase their global profile. For example, the
University of North Texas has 36,000 students and  advertises 
itself as “a student-focused public research university”
offering “97 bachelor’s, 82 master’s and 35 doctoral degree
programs.”  Even this is not enough. Although  severe budget shortfalls 
have led to cuts of as much as 90 percent for some programs, the
university is adding new doctoral programs in a quest for the
elusive top-tier status. This makes no educational sense and
violates basic market principles. If successful, the University
of North Texas will join too many other schools that are
spending large amounts for unneeded programs that turn out
products -- doctoral graduates -- for which the supply far
outweighs the demand. This is a national issue, as pointed out
in an  article this month  in the Chronicle of Higher Education
titled “The Ph.D. Now Comes With  Food Stamps .”  While overestimating the value of competition can lead to
less, not more, innovation, underestimating the value of
cooperation tends to discourage the exploration of possibilities
for creative interaction. With escalating costs, limited
resources and growing political concern about student debt,
institutions should be developing innovative ways to cooperate
that will prove to be mutually beneficial, in the same way that
companies merge and become more efficient.  In the past, cooperative arrangements were limited to
schools near each other, but teleconferencing,  Skype  and the
Internet have exponentially expanded opportunities for
interaction. Universities can no longer afford to teach every
subject that students think they need to study.  Fiscal conservatives who typically extol competition see
its insane effects in higher education.  John Kasich , the
Republican governor of Ohio,  wonders why  all public universities
in his state have to offer every major. “It’s not just
inefficiencies,” he says. “It’s, ‘I want to be the best in
this.’ It’s duplication of resources.”  Outsource Some Subjects  Some subjects can be outsourced; for example, let one
college have a strong French department and another a strong
German department. In other cases, costs can be shared by
splitting a faculty member’s time between two or more
institutions, physically and virtually. For the first half of
the semester, what is taught at one college can be remotely
transmitted to another, and for the second half of the term this
process can be reversed. Faculty members would no longer be
affiliated with a single college or university and would be
required to become much more mobile.  To consolidate resources without jeopardizing the quality
of research and teaching, universities should form consortiums
to share faculty. The most effective organizational structure
would be to have a core faculty of select members of the home
department and from departments at participating institutions,
which could be supplemented by colleagues in the undergraduate
programs at related universities. Qualified faculty members
would participate on a rotating basis, and courses would not be
limited to offerings by resident professors but would include
lectures and seminars conducted remotely. With more faculty
members from different institutions involved, the quality of
education would probably improve.  In every complex system -- be it educational, economic,
political, social or biological -- competition and cooperation
must be effectively balanced. When competition becomes
excessive, it becomes counterproductive.  The recent  announcement  that Harvard and Massachusetts
Institute of Technology are cooperating to offer free online
courses is a promising development. Much more needs to be done.
In coming articles, I will describe how overspecialization
renders much undergraduate schooling irrelevant, and how
globalization and online education provide opportunities for
rethinking higher education.  (Mark C. Taylor is chairman of the department of religion
at  Columbia University , professor of philosophy of religion at
Union Theological Seminary and professor emeritus at  Williams
College . His recent books are “Crisis on Campus: A Bold Plan for
Reforming Our Colleges and Universities” and “Refiguring the
Spiritual: Beuys, Barney, Turrell, Goldsworthy.” The opinions
expressed are his own. This is the first of three articles on
how online learning will challenge the status quo in higher
education. Read  Part 2 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  job polarization  and
 ways to save Syria ; William Pesek on  China’s declining soft
power ; Andrew Razeghi on  jump-starting startups ; Vali Nasr on
 Europe and Iran ; Rachelle Bergstein on  corporate pumps ; Ted
Gayer and Phillip Swagel on  mortgage-principal deductions .  To contact the writer of this article:
Mark C. Taylor at  mct22@columbia.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 