-- Consumer Comfort in U.S. Drops to Nearly a Four-Month Low
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-05-17T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-drops-to-nearly-a-four-month-low.html
Consumer confidence  dropped last week
to the lowest level since the end of January as slower U.S. job
growth contributed to pessimism about personal finances and
spending.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index fell in the week ended
May 13 to minus 43.6, a level associated with recessions or
their aftermaths, from minus 40.4 in the previous period. The
monthly expectations measure was little changed as Americans see
scant improvement in the world’s largest economy.  The fourth straight decline in weekly confidence comes even
as  gasoline  prices have retreated from an 11-month high reached
in early April. The figures underscore the need for stronger job
and wage gains that would help propel household spending, which
accounts for about 70 percent of the economy.  “The lagged impact of rising food and fuel prices early in
2012 and a slower pace of hiring amid a decelerating economy are
the likely culprits behind the near reversal of gains in
consumer comfort observed through the first quarter,” said
 Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at Bloomberg LP in  New
York . “The ability of the household to reassert its place as
the primary driver of growth during the current business cycle
remains limited due to modest job growth and incomes.”  The comfort index’s decline over the past four weeks has
erased almost all of this year’s gains. The gauge began the year
at minus 44.8 and reached a four-year high of minus 31.4 in the
week ended April 15.  ‘Severe’ Discontent  Readings lower than minus 40 are correlated with “severe
economic discontent,” according to  Gary Langer , president of
Langer Research Associates LLC in New York, which compiles the
index for Bloomberg. The gauge has averaged minus 15.3 since its
inception in December 1985.  More Americans than forecast filed applications for
 unemployment benefits  last week, a sign the labor market is
making little progress, figures from the Labor Department showed
today. Jobless  claims  were unchanged at 370,000 in the week
ended May 12.  The  median  forecast of 48 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News called for a drop in claims to 365,000. The number of
people on unemployment benefit rolls rose, while those receiving
extended payments decreased.  Stocks fell on concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.3 percent to 1,321.31 at
9:40 a.m. in New York.  All Components Fall  All three of the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index’s
components declined last week, today’s report showed. The gauge
of  personal finances  fell to minus 12.9, the fourth straight
drop and the weakest reading since November, from minus 11.2 in
the prior week. A measure of whether consumers consider it a
good or bad  time to buy  decreased to minus 48.2, a three-month
low, from minus 45.8. Americans’ views on the state of the
economy fell to a 10-week low of minus 69.6 from minus 64.2.  “The latest trend is a sharp turnaround from the CCI’s
recent recovery period,” Langer said in a statement. “A
separate measure of economic expectations provides little
solace.”  The monthly expectations gauge was little changed at minus
1 from minus 3 in April. During that period, job growth has
shown signs of cooling.  Employers added 115,000 workers to payrolls last month, the
weakest gain since October, according to Labor Department
figures released May 4. The same report showed the  unemployment
rate  fell to 8.1 percent as more Americans left the  labor force .  Political Affiliations  With the presidential election less than six months away,
sentiment among all political groups dropped last week.
Confidence among Republicans fell to minus 40.2, the weakest
reading since early February, from minus 36.9. Democratic
sentiment slid to a two-month low of minus 34.8, from minus
32.7. The confidence measure for independents dropped to minus
48.6, the lowest level this year.  “Political turmoil can sometimes wreak havoc on consumer
confidence, which does correlate with our business model in U.S.
rent-a-car,” Mark Frissora, chief executive officer of  Hertz
Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ) , said at a May 9 conference.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
18 years old and over. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for
their views on the economy, personal finances and buying
climate; the percentage of negative responses is subtracted from
the share of positive views and divided by three. The most
recent reading is based on the average of responses over the
previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  Langer Research Associates compiles the index, for which
field work is done by SSRS/Social Science Research Solutions in
Media,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  