-- Cornell Joins Harvard as IRS Examines Ivy League Schools
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-05-17T20:41:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/cornell-joins-harvard-as-irs-probe-looks-at-ivy-league-schools.html
Cornell University  was audited as
part of the  Internal Revenue Service ’s probe of tax compliance
at U.S. colleges, which targeted more than 30 state schools and
private nonprofit schools such as  Harvard University .  Joanne DeStefano, Cornell’s chief financial officer, told a
congressional committee yesterday in  Washington  that the IRS
completed its probe in March, according to a  copy  of her
testimony. She said at a hearing on tax-exempt organizations
that the university’s tax filings were examined along with its
operations that produce so-called unrelated business income,
which is federally taxable.  The IRS has been stepping up scrutiny of both private
nonprofit universities and public schools as they expand and
collect more revenue from operations such as bookstores,
restaurants and sports arenas. While the institutions are tax-
exempt, they are supposed to pay federal tax on any income that
is unrelated to their educational and research missions, for
instance when the public uses hotels they open for faculty and
alumni.  The IRS  found  in a survey it sent in October 2008 to 400
universities that many are failing to fully account for and
disclose what may be taxable income. The survey, which also
probed compensation and endowments, led to the audit of more
than 30 of the institutions, including the  University of Texas 
at Austin and the University of  North Carolina .  ‘Tax-Exempt Status’  Lois Lerner, the IRS’s director of exempt organizations,
has said she expects the agency to finish its audits this year
and issue a report. Lamar University, which is part of the state
university system in  Texas , said in January it paid $9,481 in
unrelated business income taxes as well as $23,171 in payroll
taxes as a result of the probe.  “The audit confirmed Cornell University’s tax-exempt
status and accepted the university’s 990 return as filed,”
Simeon Moss, a spokesman for the university, said in an e-mail,
referring to the tax form nonprofit institutions use for federal
filings.  Harvard and Cornell, which was founded in 1865 and is based
in Ithaca,  New York , are among eight schools in the U.S.
Northeast that make up the Ivy League. John Longbrake, a
spokesman for Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Harvard, said in an
e-mail that the IRS hasn’t finished auditing the university.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael McDonald in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  