-- Derivatives Need Transparency to Lure Users, Hirani Says
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-05-17T21:35:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/credit-derivatives-need-transparency-to-lure-users-hirani-says.html
Increased transparency in credit
default-swaps will attract new users to the shrinking market,
according to Sunil Hirani, co-founder and chief executive
officer at trueEX, a proposed exchange for swaps.  The market structure “needs to be transformed,” Hirani
said today at a Futures Industry Association conference in  New
York .  “Transparency will be the catalyst,” along with the
ability to trade on regulated markets, according to Hirani, an
architect of the credit-default swap market who co-founded
Creditex Inc. While a lack of confidence in structure, increased
capital for some privately negotiated contracts and a shrinking
market don’t “encourage a lot of people to enter the market,”
reasonable margin requirements, regulation and a “true end-of-
day close” will help attract new participants, he said.  The gross notional amount outstanding of credit-default
swap products has shrunk to $26.4 trillion from $33.6 trillion
in 2008, according to the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.,
which runs a central repository for the market. Regulators are
still writing the details of the rules for the Dodd-Frank Act,
the most sweeping overhaul of U.S. financial regulation since
the 1930s, introduced in reaction to the financial crisis of
2008.  In 1999, with $200,000 in capital, Hirani and John McEvoy
founded Creditex, an electronic brokerage for credit-default
swaps that helped create the auctions that set values for
corporate bonds in default. They sold it in 2008 to Atlanta-
based Intercontinental Exchange Inc., the second-largest U.S.
futures market, for $513 million.  Margin Requirements  TrueEx  applied  in January to be a  designated contract
market , an exchange overseen by the Commodity  Futures Trading (RTSIX) 
Commission. Swaps allow investors to hedge or speculate on
changes in underlying assets such as  interest rates , currencies
or the ability of a company to repay its debt. The unregulated
market is used by banks, institutional investors and
corporations.  If  capital requirements  are too high, “the product will
die,”  Larry Tabb , founder of financial-market research and
advisory firm Tabb Group LLC, said on the panel today. If a
reasonable amount of margin is required, he said “they’ll
survive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  