-- Cuban President Castro’s Daughter Gets Visa to Visit U.S.
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-05-18T00:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/cuban-president-castro-s-daughter-gets-visa-to-visit-u-s-.html
The U.S. has granted a visa to Cuban
President  Raul Castro ’s daughter to speak at a conference next
week in  San Francisco , sparking angry protests from Cuban-
American lawmakers who said the action contradicts U.S. policy
toward the communist island.  Mariela Castro Espin, 50, who heads Cuba’s government-
funded National Center for Sex Education, was granted permission
to attend next week’s meeting of the Latin American Studies
Association in  California , said a U.S. official who spoke on
condition of anonymity to discuss a confidential visa matter.  Castro is the third Cuban official to receive permission
from the Obama administration to visit the U.S. “in flagrant
disregard of express Congressional intent and established U.S.
foreign policy,” according to a protest letter sent today to
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  by Representative Ileana Ros- Lehtinen, chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, and
three other U.S. lawmakers.  An advocate for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender
issues, Castro will speak at a May 24 panel about sexual
diversity and politics, according to the conference program. She
is also scheduled to appear May 29 at the  New York  Public
Library to discuss Cuba’s policy of offering free sex
reassignment surgery under its universal health-care program.  A niece of longtime Cuban leader  Fidel Castro , who formally
ceded power to his younger brother four years ago, Castro hasn’t
been a critic of her father’s communist government.  Florida Lawmakers Outraged  Three Florida Republicans -- Ros-Lehtinen and
Representatives Mario Diaz-Balart and David Rivera -- joined
Democratic Representative Albio Sires of New Jersey in
expressing “outrage” over the State Department’s decision to
provide entry visas to Castro and two other communist party
representatives, Josefina Vidal Ferreiro of the Cuban Ministry
of  Foreign Affairs  and Eusebio Leal, Havana’s chief historian
and an advocate for restoring the historical city center.  The letter asserted that the decision to grant the visas
contradicts the Cuban Liberty and Democratic Solidarity Act of
1996 and a presidential proclamation that prohibits non-
immigrant entry of Cuban government and communist party
officials, unless the Secretary of State or her representative
issues a waiver.  Senator  Marco Rubio , a Florida Republican who has been
mentioned as a possible running mate for presumed Republican
presidential nominee  Mitt Romney , called the decision “an
enormous mistake.” Rubio called Castro’s daughter “an arm of
his regime, an outspoken supporter” who would “spread the
propaganda of her father’s regime.”  ‘Brutal Repression’  Senator Robert Menendez, a  New Jersey  Democrat, called
Castro an “opponent of democracy who has defended the regime’s
brutal repression of democracy activists.”  “Neither the  United States  government nor the Latin
American Studies Association should be in the business of
providing a totalitarian regime, like the one in Cuba, with a
platform from which to espouse its twisted rhetoric,” he said
in a  statement .  State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland today declined
to comment on the specific cases. She said there is “no blanket
restriction on the issuing of visas to Cuban citizens. In all
cases, visas are issued for legitimate travel purposes in the
United States, including coming for conferences.”  “Each visa request is reviewed on a case-by-case basis.
There is no blanket ban on issuing visas to Cuban government
officials,” the State Department said on May 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  