-- Dana Gas Said to Risk Losing Zora Field as Fails to Start
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-05-17T08:03:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/dana-gas-said-to-risk-losing-zora-field-as-fails-to-start.html
Dana Gas PJSC (DANA) , a fuel producer with
$1 billion in Islamic bonds maturing in October, risks losing
rights to the Zora natural-gas field in the  United Arab Emirates 
because the company failed to start production, two people
familiar with the situation said.  The government of the U.A.E. sheikhdom of Sharjah, where
Dana Gas is based, may end the company’s contract unless it
shows progress at the field this year, the people said,
declining to be identified because discussions are under way.
Dana Gas has received warnings from the Sharjah Petroleum
Council, the body responsible for energy projects in the
emirate, and is trying to keep control of Zora, the people said.  Officials at Dana Gas and the petroleum council declined to
comment on the matter when called today by Bloomberg.  Dana Gas signed a 25-year agreement in 2008 to explore
Sharjah’s Western Offshore concession, an area of over 1,000
square kilometres. The contract included development of the
offshore Zora field, where the company committed to complete
drilling work, install offshore platforms for immediate
processing and production, and build a pipeline to bring gas to
shore, according to a  statement  published at the time.  Losing rights to the field may deal a further blow to Dana
Gas as it struggles to obtain payments for operations in  Egypt 
and Iraq and on concern it won’t have enough money to repay the
7.5 percent Islamic bonds due in October. The company’s shares
have tumbled 41 percent in the past year, while the yield on its
notes soared 70.3 percentage points in 2012 to a record 107.8
percent at 11:18 a.m. in Dubai.  Management Changes  The company is also in the midst of replacing senior
management. Ahmed al-Arbeed, the chief executive officer, plans
to retire from his post in September as his three-year term
ends, the company said April 26. James Dewar left his role as
chief financial officer at the end of 2010, and the company
hasn’t named a replacement.  Overdue payments owed to Dana Gas have hampered its ability
to invest and expand. Trade receivables for operations at the
end of the first quarter stood at 1.04 billion dirhams ($280
million) in  Iraq  and 825 million dirhams in Egypt. The company’s
oil and gas production fell 4.5 percent to 5.73 million barrels
of oil equivalent in the period, while exploration expenses
plunged 81 percent to 7 million dirhams.  Dana Gas was planning to start producing from Zora in early
2012, at a rate of 60 million standard cubic feet a day,
according to its  website . Worley Parsons Ltd., which is
providing project management services at the field, has
completed tender invitations for companies that want to build
the processing plant, pipelines and offshore platform, according
to the Dana Gas earnings report published May 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  at 
 sev@bloomberg.net . 