-- Dangdang Pushes ADRs to 4-Month Low: China Overnight
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-05-17T20:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/dangdang-pushes-adrs-to-4-month-low-china-overnight.html
E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG)  and
21Vianet Group Inc. slumped, sending an index of Chinese stocks
in the U.S. to the lowest in four months, as a slowdown in the
world’s second-largest economy trims earnings.  Dangdang, owner of China’s biggest Internet bookseller,
fell 16 percent, the most in 11 months, as its second-quarter
sales forecast trailed analysts’ estimates. 21Vianet, the
nation’s largest independent data-center services provider,
tumbled as much as 17 percent after reporting an unexpected
loss. The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. extended its record streak of
declines to an 11th day, losing 2.5 percent to 91.97.  Dangdang joins  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  and Sohu.com Inc. in forecasting
slower sales growth as the Chinese economy has yet to show signs
of a pickup from the weakest expansion in three years.  Of the 32
companies  in the China-US index that have reported earnings
since the beginning of the quarter, 12 missed analyst forecast,
including  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (YZC)  and  China Telecom Corp. (CHA)   “In this environment of  risk aversion , any disappointment
or negative news won’t be taken well in the market,” Sam Mahtani, who oversees about $5 billion as director of  emerging
markets  at F&C Asset Management Plc, said by phone from  London .
“Clearly the market is concerned about the economic slowdown in
China. Earnings across  Asia  are being stress-tested in terms of
growth slowing.”  China ETF Sinks  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., fell for a record 12th day.
The ETF dropped 2.2 percent to $33.19, the lowest since Oct. 20.  American depositary receipts  of China Mobile Ltd., the
world’s largest phone company by users, retreated 1.5 percent to
$52.60 yesterday. The ADRs traded at a 3 percent discount to its
equivalent shares in  Hong Kong , which dropped 0.2 percent.  The Bloomberg China index is on track to erase this year’s
2.1 percent gain as reports showed China’s industrial production
grew at the slowest pace since 2009 in April, while imports and
exports rose less than analysts expected. The government has
reduced its growth target for this year to 7.5 percent, from an
8 percent goal over the previous seven years as it shifts its
focus from exports to domestic consumption.  “Although we don’t see a hard landing there, when you’re
accustomed to 10 percent growth, 7 percent feels pretty slow,”
said James Dunigan, who helps oversee $112 billion as chief
investment officer in Philadelphia at PNC Wealth Management.  Policy Measures  The  Shanghai Composite Index of  mainland stocks rose 1.4
percent yesterday, the most in two weeks, as the government’s
plan to subsidize energy-saving appliances fueled speculation
that policy makers will take measures to stem a deeper economic
slowdown. China’s growth slowed to 8.1 percent in the first
quarter, the lowest pace in almost three years.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  of U.S. shares fell 1.5
percent to the lowest level since January as a gauge of leading
indicators declined and Moody’s Investors Service downgraded  16
Spanish banks.  Dangdang tumbled to a two-month low of $6.28. The Beijing-
based company said yesterday that its sales for the second
quarter will be around 1.19 billion  yuan  ($188 million),
 trailing the median forecast  of 1.27 billion among eight
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Its earnings loss of 20 cents
for the first quarter compared with the median forecast of 22
cents in  a Bloomberg survey .  Price Declines  Baidu, owner of China’s largest search engine, and Sohu,
the third-largest, have declined more than 15 percent over the
past month after they trimmed their sales forecasts as
advertisers hold back amid the growth slowdown.  21Vianet (VNET) , the nation’s largest independent data-center
services provider, fell 3.8 percent to $12.25. It reported after
the market close on May 16 an adjusted loss of 0.3 yuan (5
cents) for the first quarter, compared with the median forecast
of net income of 0.73 yuan in a Bloomberg survey of four
analysts.  Ctrip International Ltd. (CTRP) , China’s largest online travel
agency, gained 6.4 percent, the most since January, to $20.91.
The company posted adjusted earnings of 28 cents, compared with
an average forecast of 26.5 cents by 10 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Brean Murray Carret & Co. raised its rating for the
stock to hold from sell. Raymond James Financial Inc. boosted it
to market perform from underperform yesterday.  Rebound Seen  China ’s economic growth will probably accelerate for the
first time in seven quarters as policy makers cut banks’ reserve
requirements to stimulate growth, according to a Bloomberg
survey. Third-quarter growth will rebound to 8.3 percent from
7.9 percent this quarter, according to the median estimate of 21
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Chinese policy makers lowered reserve requirement ratios on
May 12 for a third time since November. The government will
allocate 26.5 billion yuan ($4.2 billion) in subsidies to
promote the use of energy-saving household appliances and
products, according to a statement posted on the government’s
website on May 16.  Policy makers will take more take steps to revive growth,
which will benefit stocks later this year as valuation has
become attractive, according to Jeff Papp, senior analyst at
Oberweis Asset Management Inc. in Lisle,  Illinois .  Stocks in the China-U.S. gauge are valued at 17 times
estimated earnings, the lowest since April 2009, according to
 data compiled by Bloomberg .  “Cheap valuations are being overlooked,” Papp, whose
company manages $700 million, said in an e-mailed response.
“I’m looking to add the names that are being sold,” such as
21Vianet Group, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  