-- Dendreon Declines as J&J Rival to Provenge Shows Benefits
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-05-17T20:11:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/dendreon-declines-as-j-j-rival-to-provenge-shows-benefits.html
Dendreon Corp. (DNDN) , maker of the prostate
cancer drug Provenge, dropped to its lowest value in four months
after  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s rival medicine Zytiga helped high-risk
patients in a study.  Dendreon fell 11 percent to $7.65 at the close of trading
in  New York . The shares have risen less than 1 percent this
year. Zytiga, approved last year to treat metastatic prostate
cancer, helped eliminate tumors in people whose malignancy
hadn’t yet spread beyond the prostate gland,  New Brunswick , New
Jersey-based J&J said yesterday.  “Zytiga looks good in early stage therapy in high risk
patients, again squeezing the window for Provenge use,” David Nierengarten, a San Francisco-based analyst with Wedbush
Securities Inc., said in an e-mail.  Provenge was approved in April 2010 as the first therapy in
the U.S. that trains the body’s immune system to attack cancer
cells as if they were a virus. The treatment, which costs
$93,000, was cleared for patients with advanced cases of the
disease after the Seattle-based company’s three-year effort to
persuade the  Food and Drug Administration  to back the medicine.  Dendreon plunged 25 percent on May 8, the most in six
months, after the company said growth this year will be
“modest” and its first-quarter loss fell short of estimates.
The drugmaker also disclosed in a May 7 filing that the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission opened a probe that may be
related to the company’s withdrawn revenue estimate last year,
when slower-than-expected sales of Provenge prompted the
dropping of the $350 million to $400 million projection.  “We do not know the specific focus of the investigation,”
Tricia Larson, a Dendreon spokeswoman, said in an e-mail
yesterday. “We are cooperating fully with the SEC and will
continue to do so.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  