-- Dental Abuse Seen Driven by Private Equity Investments
-- B y   S y d n e y   P .   F r e e d b e r g
-- 2012-05-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/dental-abuse-seen-driven-by-private-equity-investments.html
Isaac Gagnon stepped off the school
bus sobbing last October and opened his mouth to show his mother
where it hurt.  She saw steel crowns on two of the 4-year-old’s back teeth.
A dentist’s statement in his backpack showed he had received two
 pulpotomies , or baby root canals, along with the crowns and 10
X-rays -- all while he was at school. Isaac, who suffers from
seizures from a brain injury in infancy, didn’t need the work,
according to his mother, Stacey Gagnon.  “I was absolutely horrified,” said Gagnon, of Camp Verde,
 Arizona . “I never gave them permission to drill into my son’s
mouth. They did it for profit.”  Isaac’s case and others like it are under scrutiny by
federal lawmakers and state regulators trying to determine
whether a popular business model fueled by Wall Street money is
soaking taxpayers and having a malign influence on dentistry.  Isaac’s dentist was dispatched to his school by  ReachOut
Healthcare America , a dental management services company that’s
in the portfolio of Morgan Stanley Private Equity, operates in
22 states and has dealt with 1.5 million patients. Management
companies are at the center of a U.S. Senate inquiry, and
audits, investigations and civil actions in six states over
allegations of unnecessary procedures, low-quality treatment and
the unlicensed practice of dentistry.  Allegations like Gagnon’s “are not representative” of the
more than 500 cases handled by ReachOut affiliates in Isaac’s
school district, said Mickey Mandelbaum, a company spokesman.  Private-Equity Purchases  ReachOut is one of at least 25 dental management-services
companies bought or backed by private-equity firms in the last
decade. Dentists contract with the companies for marketing,
scheduling, staff recruitment, supplies and other services. The
companies account for about 12,000, or 8 percent, of U.S.
dentists, according to Thomas A. Climo, a Las Vegas dental
consultant.  Some of them have been riding a boom in Medicaid outlays on
dentistry, which rose 63 percent to $7.4 billion between 2007
and 2010, outstripping the 4.9 percent growth in other dental
spending. ReachOut and several of its private equity-backed
rivals seek patients like Isaac Gagnon, who are covered by
Medicaid, the federal-state insurance program for the poor and
disabled.  On May 2, All Smiles Dental Center Inc., a management
 company  owned by Chicago-based Valor Equity Partners, filed for
 bankruptcy protection . Its hand was forced in part by a Texas
Medicaid action cutting off payment to some of its clinics
because of allegedly “excessive” and “inappropriate”
orthodontic care, according to an All Smiles executive’s
affidavit included in the filing. All Smiles was part of a state
audit in which 90 percent of Medicaid claims for orthodontic
braces were found to be invalid because they weren’t medically
needed, according to Christine Ellis, one of the auditors.  Another Bankruptcy  The All Smiles collapse followed another bankruptcy filing
in February by Nashville-based Church Street Health Management
LLC, which cited the costs of defending itself against lawsuits
and investigations. Church Street is owned by Arcapita Inc.,
 Carlyle Group LP (CG)  and other private equity firms and affiliated
with the Small Smiles network of dental clinics.  U.S. Senate investigators are examining whether ReachOut,
Church Street and its affiliated clinics have overbilled
Medicaid, according to Senate documents and people familiar with
the matter. Another company under Senate scrutiny is NCDR LLC,
which manages 130 Kool Smiles clinics, these people say. NCDR is
owned by Friedman Fleischer & Lowe, a San Francisco buyout
concern.  ‘Assembly Line Service’  Church Street may be abusing patients, “grossly
overcharging the United States government in Medicaid
reimbursement claims,” and focusing “more on achieving self-
imposed quotas via assembly line service than proper patient
care,” U.S. Senators  Charles Grassley  and  Max Baucus  told the
company in a November letter copied to Carlyle co-founder
William E. Conway Jr. Grassley, an Iowa Republican, is Ranking
Member of the Senate Judiciary Committee. Baucus, a Montana
Democrat, chairs the Finance Committee.  One broad issue in the inquiry is whether the management
companies merely provide services to dentists, or are breaking
the law by directing care, according to people familiar with the
matter and letters the Senators sent to state regulators. State
laws broadly say only licensed dentists or firms they own can
practice dentistry.  Church Street “respects the Senate’s important oversight
role” and has provided information about improvements in the
quality of care over the past five years, said Don Meyer, the
company’s spokesman. He said the bankruptcy isn’t affecting
patients. Reachout’s Mandelbaum declined to comment on the
Senate inquiry. NCDR, whose Kool Smiles affiliates had 2 million
patient visits last year, is “committed to an open dialogue
with regulators and legislators,” said Geoffrey Freeman, a
spokesman.  Underserved Children  ReachOut, NCDR and Church Street do not make care decisions
or own dental practices, according to their spokesmen. Each
company said it is dedicated to helping underserved children get
dental care.  After years of complaints that the poor were being deprived
of such care under Medicaid, public pressure and class-action
lawsuits opened the floodgates.  Texas ’s Medicaid dental outlays
tripled to $1.24 billion between 2007 and 2010, as fees were
boosted so more dentists would accept patients.  Indiana ,
 Connecticut ,  Maryland  and  Tennessee  also boosted reimbursements.  At the same time, young dentists with education debt
sometimes topping $300,000 “can’t get the loans they need to
start their own practices,” said Bryan J. Shanahan, past
president of the  Arizona Dental Association . “So they look for
work in a corporate setting where they get immediate  cash
flow .”  Working ‘School Hours’  Dental management firms can deliver patients and a six-
figure income by sending teams to schools where they can treat
Medicaid-eligible students in volume -- as many as 30 children
in one visit. A ReachOut  recruiting ad  last year promised “15+
patients/day” and “$120K/year (+ bonus opportunity)” by
working “school hours 1-5 days per week.” The ad appeared on
the website of the University of Detroit’s dental school.  The private equity industry has stepped up its investment
in dental management in the last five years partly because
health care was one of the few areas that grew through the
recession, said M. Alec Parker, executive director of the  North
Carolina Dental Society .  Wall Street buyout firms have also been attracted to dental
practices because they are less regulated than physician groups,
according to Sandy Steever, an editor with Irving Levin
Associates in Norwalk, Connecticut, which tracks health-care
transactions.  Cottage Industry  Dentistry is a fragmented, “cottage” industry ripe for
management services, said Robert Fontana, chief executive
officer of Aspen Dental Management, owned by  Leonard Green  &
Partners, a Los Angeles private equity concern. Fontana and
other industry executives said they see no evidence that private
equity investment lowers the quality of dental care.  Texas is investigating dozens of cases where dentists,
including affiliates of management companies, may have done
unneeded work or billed Medicaid for undelivered services,
according to spokesmen for the attorney general and other state
agencies.  Investigators are looking at allegations that dentists
placed crowns on children needing only less-expensive fillings,
or put needless braces on 12-year-olds with baby teeth -- at
taxpayer expense, said Joy Sparks, general counsel for the Texas
State Board of Dental Examiners.  The investigation includes cases involving Kool Smiles and
All Smiles, according to Stephanie Goodman, a spokeswoman for
the state  Health and Human Services Commission , which oversees
Medicaid.  ‘Unbelievable’ Fraud  Ellis, a Dallas orthodontist, testified in Congress last 
month that the “flagrancy of the fraud” she found in audits she 
performed for Texas Medicaid “is truly unbelievable,” with only 
10 percent of the paid claims she reviewed actually qualifying 
for Medicaid coverage.  Texas “has gained a lot of fraudulent orthodontic
providers, including many private equity owned dental clinics
engaged in the illegal practice of dentistry,” Ellis told the
U.S. House  Committee  on Oversight and Government Reform.  Ellis audited All Smiles claims for the state from 2007
through 2011, and found “overutilization” of Medicaid benefits
before and after Valor bought control of the firm in 2010, she
said in an interview.  ‘Credible Evidence’  Texas’s Medicaid program has put Dallas-based All Smiles on
“payment hold for credible evidence of fraud” and referred the
case to the attorney general, said Goodman, the state health
commission’s spokeswoman.  Texas inspectors have taken “exception” to 63 of 86 All
Smiles orthodontic cases reviewed from 2007-2011, according to
Michael Lozich, its chief compliance officer. “We’re going to
defend ourselves and contest against these claims,” he said.  All Smiles and its founder, Richard Malouf, previously
agreed to pay the U.S. and Texas $1.2 million to settle Medicaid
fraud allegations between 2004 and 2007, without admitting
wrongdoing.  In  Michigan  and  California  last year, groups of dentists
sued their management company, American Dental Partners,
alleging it interfered with treatment decisions only dentists
are allowed to make. JLL Partners, a  New York  private equity
firm, completed a buyout of American Dental for about $390
million in February.  Patients Unattended  American Dental refused to replace defective anesthesia
equipment, used bill-collection policies that led to “refusal
of dental services to patients” and failed to maintain proper
staffing levels, the Michigan plaintiff, Redwood Dental Group,
alleged. The policies caused patients to be left unattended and
their care to be rushed, Mark Bouchillon, Redwood’s president,
said in a letter attached to the complaint.  American Dental, which manages more than 280 dental centers
in 21 states, declined to comment. The Wakefield, Massachusetts,
firm has appealed a judge’s ruling against its motion to force
arbitration in the Michigan case. The California case is under
arbitration. In a federal filing in November, the company said
it intended to defend itself and its subsidiaries
“vigorously.”  “How is JLL going to generate a return on its huge
investment without further squeezing our dental practices
financially?” asked Bouchillon, whose group has about 25
dentists.  After actions taken against affiliates of one management
company last year,  North Carolina  is considering legislation
that would subject agreements between dentists and the companies
to state approval.  Quota Pressure  The North Carolina Dental Society, which backs the bill,
says some management companies bill patients for unneeded care
and otherwise operate illegally. Dentists may be pressured to
meet quotas and perform more-expensive treatments “instead of
focusing on what’s best for patients,” according to a  website 
sponsored by the group.  Opponents say passage of the measure will drive up costs.
The two sides have begun lobbying and TV ad wars. Private-equity
players Leonard Green, Court Square Capital Partners, and Levine
Leichtman Capital Partners own or back companies that contribute
to Alliance for Access to Dental Care, a political committee
that has raised $1.1 million to fight the bill, according to
state  records . They say the management companies usually charge
less and accept more types of insurance than private
practitioners.  In California and Arizona, state investigators are
examining complaints that ReachOut-dispatched teams billed
Medicaid for unnecessary work on children, according to people
familiar with the inquiries.  Program Ended  In Nevada, the Clark County School District ended its
ReachOut program earlier this year. School nurses had complained
about children returning to classrooms in pain after baby root
canals and other work, according to Amanda Fulkerson, a
spokeswoman for the district, which includes  Las Vegas . Derryl
Brian, one of the mobile dentists who worked with ReachOut, said
they had treated 80,000 children since 2006 with a high
satisfaction rate.  ReachOut’s owners have called the company a “unique”
model. In 1997, founders Michael Howell and Daniel Goldsmith
started a company to coordinate care to nursing-home residents
in Michigan. They expanded to children in schools and by late
2003, were delivering dentistry to homeless shelters, foster
programs, group homes and mental health facilities.  In November 2007, ReachOut received private equity funding
from Sentinel Capital Partners, of New York. Under Sentinel, it
acquired two rivals and increased its patient size fivefold.
Last year, as a holding of Morgan Stanley Private Equities, its
dentists saw 488,000 children in 8,700 schools.  Mainly Preventive Work  “Many of these children would otherwise go without even
the most basic care,” said Mandelbaum, the company spokesman.
ReachOut affiliates mainly clean and perform preventive work,
with baby root canals and crowns accounting for less than half
of 1 percent of patients, he said.  ReachOut’s model is built on the premise that low-income
parents often don’t have time or transportation to take children
to the dentist. So mobile teams pack equipment in large cases,
load up a minivan, head to schools and set up in gyms, libraries
or classrooms.  In most states, only a dentist, not a business corporation,
can be licensed to control and conduct a dental practice. U.S.
Senate investigators are examining whether some dental
management companies are actually de facto owners of practices
that bill Medicaid, according to letters Grassley and Baucus
have sent to state regulators.  ‘Embedded’ in Practice  Management companies have “moved from being vendors of
services,” such as patient billing, “into increasingly complex
arrangements under which some -- not all -- have embedded
themselves deeply into every aspect of the dental practice,”
said Ken Burgess, an attorney for the North Carolina dental
board.  The Big Smiles dentists’ network and others ReachOut serves
use “their own professional judgment and discretion,” and
share the company’s belief that patients shouldn’t be physically
restrained, according to Mandelbaum.  One of ReachOut’s most-ubiquitous affiliated dentists is
Elliot Schlang, who has registered dental practices and licenses
in at least 16 states. Schlang said he practices in all of them
and travels the country training staff and treating children.  “I work day and night,” he said in an interview.  Another ReachOut-affiliated dentist is Ralph Green. Arizona
records list him as the principal of a dental practice that has
the same Phoenix address as the one shown on ReachOut’s website.
The website lists Green as ReachOut’s clinical director.  Unnecessary Drilling Complaint  In August 2010, Green’s lawyer appeared before the Arizona
dental board to answer a complaint that ReachOut did unnecessary
drilling on a Phoenix student’s teeth -- even after the
student’s mother, Valerie Davila, told the company she was seeing 
a family dentist and didn’t need any work.  The 6-year-old, Sabrina Martinez, suffered “unnecessary pain,'' 
Davila said. ''Imagine if it was your child.”   There were two children with the same name at the school,
and the work was done on the wrong Sabrina Martinez, Green’s
lawyer, Jeff Tonner, told the dental board. Although the board
agreed that work was done on the wrong child, it dismissed the
case, noting Davila had complained about “the business
entity,” not a dentist.  Four Teeth Missing  In  San Diego , Tina Richardson’s third grader, Alexander
Henry, came home in March with four baby teeth missing after a
school session with a ReachOut-affiliated dentist that was so
painful he “waved his arms frantically,” “pushed everyone off
him” and “bled so badly that they had to send him to the
nurse’s office,” according to her complaint with the state
dental board. Among other things, Richardson said the consent
process wasn’t valid.  Richardson said Alexander had seen a dentist nine days
earlier who didn’t recommend any teeth pulling. Although she
signed a consent form in September covering many procedures
including extractions, she said she didn’t sign another one that
came in November seeking permission to take out three teeth. No
one from ReachOut called to discuss the proposed procedures, she
said.  The state board is investigating her complaint, according
to a letter to Richardson. Gurgen Sahakyan, listed as
Alexander’s mobile dentist on a form brought home from school,
said “the original consent was signed” and the work was done
well. Mandelbaum said ReachOut couldn’t discuss specific
patients.  Dentistry Guidelines  American Academy  of Pediatric Dentistry  guidelines  say
“oral discussion between provider and patient, not the
completion of a form, is the important issue of informed
consent.”  In Arizona, a state investigator subpoenaed the names of
children seen by the ReachOut-dispatched dental team on Oct. 4
last year, the day Isaac Gagnon was treated, said  Dan Brown , who
was then Camp Verde School Superintendent.  When ReachOut called Stacey Gagnon to tell her the mobile
dentist was coming to Isaac’s school, she said she explained
that he had seizures and other serious medical conditions.
ReachOut was told he could have a cleaning and oral hygiene
education, nothing else, according to Gagnon.  Five weeks later, a ReachOut team in the art room at Camp
Verde Elementary took X-rays of Isaac, according to preschool
instructor Becky Fordham. When Isaac was moved to a corner of
the room, he began to gag, Fordham said.  Kicked and Screamed  He kicked and screamed while several adults held him on the
dental table, according to another teacher’s aide, Stephanie
Shultz. “The dentist man got me,” Gagnon remembers her son
saying.  The Gagnons said the school identified Isaac’s dentist as
Alvin J. Coon Jr., who works with a ReachOut-affiliated practice
registered in the name of Green -- the dentist who answered
Davila’s complaint in the Phoenix case. Coon and Green’s lawyer
declined to comment.  The root canals were unnecessary and the number of X-rays
was “excessive,” according to Bobby Lee Raber, a dentist in
Prescott who reviewed the records for the Gagnons. Professional
guidelines call for only four X-rays for a child Isaac’s age,
Raber said.  Isaac should have been sedated to numb the pain and not
held down, Raber said in a written review. He said he ends
treatment and reschedules when children cry, and doesn’t sedate
or restrain them without parental consent.  Medicaid Refunded  A couple of weeks after Isaac’s dental visit, Gagnon said
ReachOut told her the company refunded Medicaid the fees for her
son Joel, who was seen at school on the same day as Isaac. The
Gagnons say they didn’t complain about Joel’s examination.  Darren Gagnon, Isaac’s father, said he received a visit
from Robert Linder, a ReachOut regional vice president, about a
month after the treatment. Linder apologized that Issac was
treated without consent, and said what happened was “not common
practice,” according to Darren Gagnon and a colleague who was
also at the meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sydney P. Freedberg in Miami at 
 sfreedberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net . 