-- Dewey, Arnold & Porter, Latham, Goodwin: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-05-17T10:43:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/dewey-arnold-porter-latham-goodwin-dla-business-of-law.html
Charles Landgraf, the last of four
partners who was managing Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP after the firm
created a new five-member chairman’s office in March, left for
Arnold & Porter LLP yesterday.  The failing New York-based law firm was roiled by issues
over partner compensation that led to the departure of more than
two-thirds of its partners over the last couple of months and
the firing of 553 employees at its Manhattan building, according
to a notice on the U.S. Labor Department website.  At least 11 partners in the U.S. have recently left,
including two big moves yesterday: insurance lobbyist Landgraf
and the former white-collar practice head Christopher J. Clark,
to Latham & Watkins LLP. Large groups of lawyers in Italy and
 Poland  left Dewey this week as well. Nine other partners’
departures were reported May 15 in the Business of Law column.  While at Dewey, Landgraf represented Lloyd’s of  London , the
Association of Dutch Insurers, NAREIT, California Earthquake
Authority, the Distilled Spirits Council of the U.S., the
Financial Services Roundtable, and Liberty Mutual Insurance Co.,
the firm said in a statement.  Clark, Dewey’s former white-collar practice head, joined
Latham’s New York office as a partner in the litigation
department, Latham said yesterday. He has expertise in defending
criminal and regulatory investigations, and in providing advice
to public companies,  hedge funds  and investment advisers. His
practice focuses on securities law and foreign and domestic
anti-corruption law.  Clark is a member of the team of attorneys representing
Mark Cuban in a Securities and Exchange Commission matter. He
has also represented hedge fund clients, including a landmark
ruling against the SEC in one of the first enforcement actions
brought by the commission concerning the use of short-selling
strategies in advance of PIPE offerings, the firm said.  Additional Dewey departures this week include a team of 11
real estate and private equity attorneys to Schulte Roth & Zabel
LLP in  New York . SRZ hired Joseph A. Smith and Marshall S. Brozost as partners, along with nine additional lawyers.  Smith, who served as the global chairman for Dewey’s
private-equity practice group, joins the investment management
group at SRZ. Experienced in private equity and investment fund
formation, Smith focuses his practice on the representation of
fund sponsors, asset managers and institutional investors in
connection with the formation of private investment funds, the
acquisition of portfolio investments and the implementation of
exit strategies, the firm said in a statement.  Brozost joins the real estate group. He focuses his
practice on all aspects of commercial real estate, including
purchases and sales, formation of joint ventures, real estate
fund formation, mortgage and mezzanine financing, workouts and
leasing.  The additional lawyers joining include two in the real
estate section and seven in the investment management group.  Sidley Austin LLP announced yesterday that Andrew Holland
and Kirk Lipsey joined the firm’s New York office as partners in
the insurance and financial services group. Both were previously
partners at Dewey.  Holland’s practice will focus on insurance regulatory and
corporate matters. Lipsey will focus on insurance industry
transactions, with an emphasis on mergers and acquisitions and
other strategic transactions.  Hogan Lovells LLP announced that Dean Hansell joined its
 Los Angeles  office as a partner in the litigation, arbitration
and employment practice.  Hansell’s practice encompasses consumer, unfair
competition, and labor and employment class actions; complex
business litigation; government enforcement actions;
environmental claims; insurance and reinsurance litigation and
insolvency matters; international litigation and arbitration;
and appeals, the firm said.  Proskauer Rose LLP has added mergers and acquisitions
partner Lorenzo Borgogni to the New York office.  Borgogni represents both public and private companies in
mergers and acquisitions, restructurings and corporate
governance matters. His practice focuses on cash and stock-for-
stock mergers, stock and asset acquisitions, tender offers,
leveraged buyouts and going-private transactions, auctions,
spinoffs and divestitures, takeover defenses and proxy contests,
the firm said.  Boston  energy lawyers Scott Mueller and Meabh Purcell have
joined Holland & Knight LLP’s energy and clean technology team
as partners. Mueller was co-chairman of Dewey’s energy
regulatory department.  Joseph Lavelle joined DLA Piper LLP’s intellectual property
and technology practice and patent litigation group as a partner
in the  Washington  office.  For more, click here.  Linklaters Real Estate Group Head Moves to Goodwin Procter  Joe Conder, former Linklaters LLP’ co-global head of
Linklater’s real estate sector group, will join Goodwin Procter
LLP as a partner in the London office.  At Goodwin, Conder will be a member of the firm’s real
estate capital markets practice, focusing on commercial real
estate transactions, including sales, purchases, development
funding and leasing in  Europe .  Conder’s practice covers all aspects of commercial real
estate transactions, including sales and purchases of high-value
investment properties, real estate development “forward”
funding, real estate leasing, and real estate outsourcing
transactions. He has served as real estate relationship partner
for international investors, including German, Middle Eastern
and Asian funds. At Linklaters he also headed the U.K.
investment team in the real estate practice.  Goodwin Procter has offices in Boston,  Hong Kong , London,
Los Angeles, New York, Washington, San Diego,  San Francisco  and
Silicon Valley, California.  K&L Gates Hires Commercial Disputes Partner in Portland  The Portland, Oregon, office of K&L Gates LLP has added B.
John Casey as a partner in the commercial disputes practice.
Casey joins the firm from Latham & Watkins LLP in  Chicago .  With a focus on securities and professional liability
litigation, Casey advises clients in the accounting, financial
services, private equity, and consumer goods sectors on complex
commercial litigation, securities class actions, SEC
investigations, mergers and acquisitions litigation,
professional malpractice actions, and fiduciary duty disputes,
the firm said. He also counsels on employment and consumer class
actions as well as complex contract disputes.  K&L Gates has more than 40 offices located in North
America, Europe,  Asia , South America and the  Middle East .  News  Emerging Market Trends Now Majority Opinions, Survey Shows  Law firm leaders have shifted their attitudes toward legal
market trends like staffing and fees, consulting firm Altman
Weil said after the most recent results from a law firm survey
that the firm has done since 2009, shortly after the start of
the economic downturn.  “Emerging legal market trends that were viewed with
considerable skepticism in 2009 have become majority opinions in
2012,” said Altman Weil principal Eric Seeger in a statement.
“These are striking changes.”  Firm leaders foresee a decrease in equity partners and
expect smaller first-year classes. Sixty-eight percent of firm
leaders believe that there will be fewer equity partners, an
increase from 23 percent three years ago, the firm said.  The survey also found that more than twice the number of
law firm leaders, 92 percent, believe that increased price
competition will be a permanent fixture of the post-recession
legal marketplace.  Compared to 2009 when only 26 percent thought more
commoditization of legal work would be a permanent change, 84
percent expect that in the latest survey.  Altman Weil conducted the survey in March and April. The
survey polled managing partners and chairmen at 792 U.S. law
firms with 50 or more lawyers. The firm received completed forms
from 238 firms, including 40 percent of the 250 largest U.S. law
firms.  For more,  click here .  BGC Executive Verrier Banned in U.K. Over Broker Poaching  Anthony Verrier, the executive managing director of the
inter-dealer brokerage  BGC Partners Inc. (BGCP) , was banned by the U.K.
financial regulator because of his involvement in poaching
brokers from a competitor.  Tony Woodcock, a lawyer for Verrier, said the matter is
“an internal administrative decision by the FSA, which hasn’t
been the subject of independent judicial inquiry.”  “We are referring the case to an external tribunal, so
that proper consideration can be taken as to what action the FSA
should properly take, if any, against Mr. Verrier,” Woodcock
said.  Verrier isn’t fit to work in the finance industry in
Britain because of a court’s finding that he induced brokers at
 Tullett Prebon Plc (TLPR)  to breach their employment contracts, the
Financial Services Authority said in a statement yesterday.  Tullett sued BGC in 2009, claiming Verrier spent millions
of pounds to convince the heads of various Tullett trading desks
to breach their contracts by getting colleagues to defect to
BGC. A U.K. court in 2010 ruled against New York-based BGC and
ordered a second trial on damages, which was later settled.  “In light of the  High Court ’s findings about Verrier’s
conduct, we have concluded that he is not fit and proper to be
in the U.K. financial services industry,” said Tracey McDermott, the FSA’s acting head of enforcement.  BGC Partners, a unit of the New York-based investment bank
Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., specializes in trading over-the-counter
financial instruments and related derivative products. A
spokesman for Cantor Fitzgerald, Robert Hubbell, referred
requests for comment to Verrier’s lawyers.  During the litigation, which featured allegations about
lost BlackBerrys and threatening phone calls, BGC was blocked by
London’s High Court from hiring anyone from Tullett. The Court
of Appeal upheld the ruling last year.  Tullett claimed during the trial that Verrier, its former
global chief operating officer, induced the heads of Tullett
trading desks to act as “recruiting sergeants.” He and others
lost numerous BlackBerry phones that might have stored
incriminating messages, London-based Tullett alleged.  Judge Raymond Jack said he was “satisfied” that it was
Verrier’s “gambit” to lose the devices. He also said that in
his testimony, Verrier “stuck to the truth where he was able
to, but departed from it with equanimity and adroitness where
the truth was inconvenient.”  Fees  AIG Declines to Reveal Legal Costs After Sole Investor Request  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , the insurer majority
owned by the U.S. Treasury Department after a 2008 bailout,
declined to reveal legal costs in response to the only investor
who asked a question at its annual meeting.  “I don’t believe we go through and identify that as a
number that we go public with,” Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 67, told the man who identified himself as an AIG
shareholder at the meeting yesterday in New York. “We are
working very hard to work that list down and we also do very
strong competitive bidding on legal costs, so it’s not a free-
for-all. You may think it’s a feeding frenzy on this company. It
is not.”  The investor cited the 17-page summary of litigation and
investigations in AIG’s quarterly filing to the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission, including regulatory probes and
disputes with shareholders, competitors, ex-executives and a
former subsidiary. Benmosche has worked to resolve lawsuits as
the Treasury winds down its stake.  “I can tell you that our legal expenses are coming down
dramatically,” Benmosche said.  Firm News  McDermott Names Partner-in-Charge in Silicon Valley Office  McDermott Will & Emery LLP announced that it has named
litigation partner Daniel E. Alberti as partner-in-charge of the
firm’s Silicon Valley office in Menlo Park,  California .  With more than 30 years of trial experience, Alberti has
litigated patent and trade secret cases, as well as business
disputes in arbitration forums across the country, the firm said
in a statement.  “We believe Dan’s style both in the courtroom and as a
manager aligns very well with the creative, entrepreneurial
style of our clients in the Valley,” Jeffrey E. Stone, co-
chairman of McDermott Will & Emery LLP, said in a statement.  Partner Anthony de Alcuaz will step down as partner-in-
charge for the Silicon Valley office. De Alcuaz will turn his
focus toward strengthening McDermott’s Silicon Valley trial
capabilities by taking on a greater role in more intellectual
property litigation matters, the firm said.  McDermott has hired seven intellectual property lawyers in
its Silicon Valley office since February. The firm has more than
1,000 lawyers in offices in the U.S. and Europe, as well as a
strategic alliance with MWE China Law Offices in  Shanghai .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 