-- Dimon Shows No Retreat: Bloomberg Businessweek Opening Remarks
-- B y   P e t e r   C o y
-- 2012-05-17T01:11:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/dimon-shows-no-retreat-bloomberg-businessweek-opening-remarks.html
Jamie Dimon has the silver mane and
piercing, gray-blue eyes of a chief executive officer from
central casting, but he talks like one of his own charged-up
traders.  His blunt words tumble out in a New York hurry. Unlike
other financial chieftains, the CEO of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
seems to relish using those words to berate the lawmakers and
regulators that hold his bank’s fate in their hands, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its May 21 issue.  “Jamie has taken on this mantle of defending this entire
industry,” Michael Driscoll, who worked for Dimon as a trader
at the Smith Barney brokerage, told Bloomberg News earlier this
year. “He’s combative by nature. And like a lot of these alpha
dogs, when he’s backed into a corner, he’s going to bark back.”  Words like comeuppance, schadenfreude, and even Dimonfreude
have been laid on liberally since May 10, when Dimon blamed a
$2 billion trading loss in JPMorgan’s London office on a hedging
strategy that he confessed was “flawed, complex, poorly
reviewed, poorly executed, and poorly managed.” (Otherwise,
fine.) On NBC’s “Meet the Press”, he said, “We know we were
sloppy. We know we were stupid.” The loss has probably grown as
hedge funds attack the bank’s exposed flank.  Anyone who thought Dimon might retreat -- say, by giving an
inch to regulators who want to tighten rules against risky
proprietary trading -- doesn’t know the man. On May 15, facing
shareholders at JPMorgan’s annual meeting in Tampa,  Florida ,
Dimon promised in his brisk style that “all corrective action
will be taken.”  Dodd-Frank Act  He made no move, however, to mute his criticism of the
Dodd-Frank  Wall Street  Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which
was written to regulate the kind of high-risk behavior that
caused the 2008 financial crisis. Nor did he give up any of his
triumvirate of titles -- chairman, CEO, and president -- or
forgo any of his 2011 pay, which came to $23 million in salary
and bonuses. And he kept his prized seat on the board of
directors of the  Federal Reserve  Bank of  New York , despite calls
from the likes of former New York Governor  Eliot Spitzer  for him
to resign.  Truth be told, JPMorgan’s loss, although it has instigated
an FBI probe, did little harm to what Dimon brags is JPMorgan’s
“fortress  balance sheet .” Analysts still expect a $4 billion
profit for the second quarter. But the loss did remind us that
even the best managers can get singed when they play with fire.
Who can say the next “flawed, complex” hedging strategy by a
megabank won’t cause truly damaging losses? Almost four years
since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., it’s far
from certain that enough has been done to prevent the whole
house from burning down again.  ‘Last Man Standing’  Dimon, 56, is a third-generation denizen of Wall Street. As
recounted in “Last Man Standing: The Ascent of  Jamie Dimon  and
JPMorgan Chase,” a 2009 biography by journalist Duff McDonald,
the family legacy began when Dimon’s paternal grandfather, a
busboy in his native  Greece , was fired and took a job at the
Bank of Athens. He immigrated to the U.S. and became a
successful stockbroker, as was his son.  Dimon grew up in Queens and later, as the family fortune
swelled, on New York’s Park Avenue. After Harvard Business
School, he hitched his wagon to Sandy Weill, the dealmaker
extraordinaire. In 1998, Weill and Dimon pulled off the historic
merger of Travelers Group and Citicorp -- historic because it
needed spinoffs to comply with the Glass-Steagall Act of 1933,
which separated commercial banking from investment banking and
insurance. Congress obligingly repealed Glass-Steagall the next
year.  Parted Ways  After years of butting heads, Weill and Dimon parted ways
shortly after the Travelers-Citi merger. Dimon, duplicating
Weill’s ladder-climbing strategy, became CEO of Chicago-based
Bank One in 2000, whipping it into shape and arranging its
merger with JPMorgan in 2004. He became CEO a year later.  At JPMorgan, Dimon made his national reputation by avoiding
the worst of the mistakes that damaged rivals such as Citigroup
Inc. and  Bank of America Corp.  JPMorgan’s financial strength
allowed it to beef up during the financial crisis by acquiring
the imperiled Bear Stearns Cos. with the help of the Federal
Reserve and then snapping up  Washington  Mutual, the nation’s
biggest savings and loan. Dimon, a Democrat, became known as
President Barack Obama’s favorite banker. Today, JPMorgan has
the most assets and the highest profit of any U.S. bank.  Somewhere along the line, though, Dimon developed a sense
of grievance. Obama’s reference to “fat cat” bankers irritated
him. So did the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, which he said hemmed in
good banks like his. So did  Occupy Wall Street , which marched to
his Park Avenue co-op apartment on a tour of Upper East Side
tycoons’ dwellings.  Bernanke Challenged  Dimon didn’t disguise his feelings. Last June in Atlanta he
challenged Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  at the end of a
question-and-answer session over the cost of bank regulation.
Months later, according to the Financial Times, he had an angry
confrontation behind closed doors with Bank of Canada Governor
 Mark Carney  over  capital requirements . And in February he took
on one of the most respected figures in American banking, former
Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , whose name is attached to
a rule, set to take effect in July, that would restrict risky
trading by banks that hold insured deposits.  “Paul Volcker by his own admission has said he doesn’t
understand  capital markets ,” Dimon said in a Fox Business
Network television interview. “Honestly, he’s proven that to
me.”  Still Blew It  Dimon’s relentless opposition to Wall Street regulation, on
the grounds that he had everything under control, is what turned
JPMorgan’s otherwise unremarkable $2 billion trading loss into a
morality tale that has transfixed Wall Street and Washington.
The most troubling aspect of the story is not that Dimon has
been exposed as a screw-up but that he isn’t and still blew it.  Appearing on ABC’s “The View” program, Obama said,
“JPMorgan is one of the best-managed banks there is. Jamie
Dimon, the head of it, is one of the smartest bankers we got,
and they still lost $2 billion and counting.” He added,
“That’s exactly why Wall Street reform’s so important.”  Dimon is right about one very big thing: The government’s
prescription for preventing speculation by banks is flawed. The
Volcker rule is supposed to ban speculation while allowing
trading for certain narrow purposes: hedging and market-making.
But drawing a bright line between what’s legal and what’s
illegal is proving to be a regulators’ nightmare.  ‘Protecting the System’  The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency still can’t
even say whether the transactions that led to JPMorgan’s
embarrassing loss would have been prohibited under the
implementation of the Volcker rule that was drafted by
regulators in October. Once the rule takes effect, banks have
two years to comply.  Under the 298-page draft, legality depends on intent, and
intent is difficult to discern.  “Protecting the system, I agree with,” Dimon told Fox
Business in the same February interview in which he dissed
Volcker. Perched on a tall director’s chair under the Orlando
sun, Dimon warmed to his topic. “But talking about the intent?
I tell you,” he said, setting up a joke Henny Youngman-style,
“every trader, we’re going to have to have a lawyer, compliance
officer, doctor to see what their testosterone levels are -- and
a shrink [asking] ‘What’s your intent?’”  Funny, right? But agreeing that the Volcker rule is a hot
mess is not the same as agreeing with Dimon’s preferred
alternative, which is essentially to give the banks a whole lot
of latitude. All the big banks used to have officially
designated desks for proprietary trading -- that is, putting the
bank’s own money at risk in pursuit of profit. Most of those
prop-trading desks have been shut down in anticipation of the
Volcker rule. Dimon said he supports the ban on prop trading.  Reality-Distortion Field  JPMorgan’s loss, though, shows that prop trading is still
going on under a different guise and just as aggressively as
ever. That may be the most important takeaway from this episode.  In Dimon’s reality-distortion field, JPMorgan’s enormous
bets weren’t anything like prop trading. The bank’s chief
investment office in  London  was just hedging -- namely, trying
to reduce the firm’s risk by putting on one position to
neutralize an opposite position elsewhere in the portfolio.
Hedging is permitted under the Volcker rule. This hedge, Dimon
said, just happened to go bad.  Profit Center  JPMorgan’s own words and actions belie that explanation. As
first reported by Bloomberg News in April, under Dimon’s
management the chief investment office was transformed from a
risk-mitigating organization into one that became a profit
center, overseeing about $360 billion. It is a basic principle
of finance that a correctly executed hedge should, on average,
lose money. That’s because buying protection is costly.
Insurance works the same way. You pay a little bit every year to
protect yourself against a devastating loss, and you’re grateful
if your premiums “go to waste” because you never collect.  Sure, a good hedge might make money accidentally because of
a mismatch between the asset that’s hedged and the asset that’s
doing the hedging. That’s known as “basis risk” in the trade.
But if a transaction is outright designed to make money for the
firm, it is not, by definition, a hedge. It’s speculation. The
New York Times reported on May 15 that the anticipated profit
from the big trade made by JPMorgan’s chief investment office
was called ‘icing” by insiders, like the icing on a cake.
That’s damning.  Giving Guidance  “Hedging” isn’t the only word that Dimon has redefined
for his own purposes. “Guidance” is another. In his May 10
conference call with analysts, Dimon said, “While we don’t give
overall earnings guidance and we are not confirming current
analyst estimates, if you did adjust current analyst estimates
for the loss, we still earned approximately $4 billion after-tax
this quarter, give or take.” So he gave guidance while
insisting he wasn’t giving guidance.  In the first quarter, trading profits accounted for
15 percent of JPMorgan’s  entire revenue , although an unknown
portion of that was from trading for clients rather than its own
account. The Volcker rule would reduce those trading profits; by
how much is hard to say. “The Volcker Rule is like a comet
heading toward earth,”  Robert Colby , a partner at the law firm
Davis Polk & Wardwell, told Traders Magazine earlier this year.
Traders can’t justify big paydays if all they do is plain-
vanilla banking.  Well,...so what? After living through the worst economic
downturn since the  Great Depression (INDU) , one brought on at least in
part by the recklessness of big banks, the public is justifiably
concerned that bankers will cause trouble again by taking big
risks in pursuit of big bonuses. The mischief-making inside the
House of Morgan shows that management might not know what’s
going on until it’s too late.  A Bright Line  “It’s very difficult to manage these institutions from the
top of the shop, even for Jamie Dimon, whom I have a lot of
respect for,” said Sheila Bair, the former chairman of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  Government regulators are even less capable of detecting
dangerous behavior in a megabank than CEOs are. And they know
it. That’s why it’s important to create a bright line between
legal trades and illegal ones, a standard that is easily
enforced and obvious to all.  One way to do that would be to do something Dimon doesn’t
want: rule out all hedge trades except those where there is a
clearly identified asset to be hedged on the other side. No more
vague “portfolio” hedges, which, like a billowy muumuu, hide a
multitude of trading sins. A more extreme measure would be what
the British call ring-fencing, keeping commercial banking pure
by requiring that all trading for whatever purpose be conducted
by a subsidiary.  ‘Bread and Butter’  Bair, whose FDIC must pay off depositors when a bank fails,
likes that idea.  “I would like to see insured banks be bread and butter,”
she said. “Take deposits, make loans.”  Volcker is also intrigued by British Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s plan of structurally separating commercial and
investment banking, as in the Glass-Steagall era.  “I could argue their approach is much more rigorous than
what we have,” Volcker told a Senate banking subcommittee on
May 9, the day before the JPMorgan disclosure. The snag in
Britain’s plan is that in a crisis, there is huge pressure on
regulators to allow the holding company to bail out the
subsidiary, putting depositors at risk.  ‘Ring Fence’  “My experience with the ring fence is that the gophers go
underneath and the deer jump over, and they’ve got a lot of
lawyers to help them,” Volcker told the senators. And even a
pure commercial bank can make dumb loans and manage excess cash
recklessly. That’s an argument for imposing even tougher capital
requirements on the banks -- thicker risk cushions so losses are
borne entirely by bank shareholders and never by taxpayers.  It’s worth noting that just four banks -- JPMorgan,
Citigroup, Bank of America, and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  --
accounted for 94 percent of all derivatives outstanding at the
end of 2011. The idea that those four can’t prosper without the
ability to trade derivatives on a massive scale “is just a
breathtaking condemnation of the larger banks,” said
Representative Barney Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat and co-
author of the Dodd-Frank Act.  Frank is, of course, the kind of person who annoys the heck
out of Jamie Dimon. He is happier holding forth at Davos,
standing in the milling crowd of networkers like a boulder in a
trout stream, or visiting the Florentine palazzo known as the
New York Fed. But as Dimon himself ruefully observed, his bank’s
$2 billion trading loss, which he originally underestimated as
“a complete tempest in a teapot,” “plays right into the hands
of a whole bunch of pundits out there.” Yes, it does. And yes,
it should.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Coy in New York at 
 pcoy3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Romesh Ratnesar at 
 rratnesar@bloomberg.net  