-- Dog-Bite Costs Surge to $479 Million as Claims Increase
-- B y   D a n   K r a u t
-- 2012-05-17T18:59:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/dog-bite-costs-surge-to-479-million-as-claims-increase.html
U.S. insurers’ costs tied to dog
bites surged last year to a record as the price of the average
claim jumped 12 percent on higher medical fees, legal
settlements and jury awards.  Bites cost the industry $478.9 million last year, compared
with $412.6 million in 2010, the  Insurance Information Institute 
said in a  statement  today on its website. The average claim
increased to $29,396.  “The most dangerous dogs are those that fall victim to
human shortcomings such as poor training, irresponsible
ownership and breeding practices that foster viciousness,”
according to the statement.  The attacks account for more than one-third of all
liability payouts from home insurers, an industry led by
policyholder-owned State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co.
and  Allstate Corp. (ALL)  A lawsuit can cost more than $100,000 in
legal fees and lost wages, even if the homeowner wins, according
to the institute, which says dog owners can limit confrontations
by spaying or neutering the animals and keeping them from
infants.  “A dog’s tendency to bite depends on such factors as
heredity, obedience training, socialization, health and the
victim’s behavior,” Bloomington, Illinois-based State Farm said
in a separate statement this week. “There are good dogs and bad
dogs within every breed, just as there can be responsible and
irresponsible owners of each breed.”  Postal Service  There were 16,292 claims last year, down from 2003, the
first year the institute’s data were listed in the statement.
The average cost per claim increased 53 percent since 2003.  Dog owners aren’t responsible in most states for injuries
to trespassers, according to the statement. National Dog Bite
Prevention week begins this weekend.  The U.S.  Postal Service  said 5,577 of its employees were
attacked last year in more than 1,400 cities.  Los Angeles  had
the most attacks, 83, followed by  San Diego  and Houston, the
service said in a statement today.  Letter carriers fearing for their safety because of an
unrestrained animal can stop delivery and require pet owners to
pick up mail at a post office, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Kraut in  New York  at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  