-- Stocks Drop on Europe, Manufacturing Data as Gold Rallies
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-05-17T20:43:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/dollar-falls-as-fed-signals-further-easing-oil-gold-rebound.html
Stocks sank, dragging the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index to a four-month low, as concern grew about the
health of Spanish banks and an U.S. gauge of  manufacturing 
trailed projections. Gold rebounded from its lowest level of the
year while 10-year Treasury yields approached a record low.  The S&P 500 tumbled 1.5 percent to close at 1,304.86 at 4
p.m.  New York  time and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  slid 156
points. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  lost 1.1 percent, while
Russian and Brazilian stocks entered bear markets. U.S. notes
gained as a $13 billion auction of 10-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities drew a record low negative yield. The
 Dollar Index (DXY)  climbed for a record 14th straight day. Oil fell to
a six-month low, while gold surged the most since October.  Concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis deepened as two people
familiar with the situation said Moody’s Investors Service was
set to downgrade the credit ratings of Spanish banks, with the
ratings firm confirming the cuts after U.S. markets closed. The
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic index
decreased to minus 5.8 in May, indicating an unexpected
contraction in manufacturing. The index of leading economic
indicators dropped in April for the first time in seven months.  “It’s a double whammy,”  James Paulsen , the chief
investment strategist at Minneapolis-based Wells Capital
Management, said in a telephone interview. His firm oversees
about $333 billion of assets. “Not only do we have continued
scary European news, we’ve got weak economic data in the U.S.
today. We’re going to bounce around for a while.”  $3 Trillion Slump  More than $3 trillion has been erased from the value of
equities worldwide this month as concern Greece will exit the
euro curbed demand for riskier assets. The country faces a fresh
election on June 17 that may boost parties opposed to the
conditions of its international bailouts.  Other economic reports today showed U.S. jobless claims
were unchanged at 370,000 in the week ended May 12, compared
with the median forecast of 48 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News for a drop in claims to 365,000. The Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index fell in the week ended May 13 to minus 43.6, a
level associated with recessions or their aftermaths, from minus
40.4 in the previous period.  The  S&P 500  has tumbled more than 8 percent from a four-
year high in April as Greece’s failure to form a government
returned investors’ focus to Europe’s debt crisis, while
economic data trails estimates by the most in seven months. The
Citigroup Economic Surprise Index for the U.S., which measures
how much data is  missing or beating  the median estimates in
Bloomberg surveys, slipped to minus 25.1 today and was minus
25.6 on May 10, the lowest since September 30.  Market Leaders  Caterpillar Inc.,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Home Depot Inc. and
Boeing Co. dropped more than 3.5 percent to lead the Dow to the
lowest level since Jan. 13  Apple Inc., the world’s most valuable company, retreated
2.9 percent after  hedge funds  disclosed sales of the stock. SAC
Capital Advisors LP and Viking Global Investors LP were among
hedge funds that sold a net 6.1 million shares of Apple last
quarter, taking advantage of the 48 percent jump in the iPhone
maker’s stock.  Limited Brands Inc., owner of the Victoria’s Secret
lingerie chain, fell 4.4 percent after forecasts disappointed
investors.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer,
rose 4.2 percent after earnings beat estimates as lower prices
increased customer traffic. Sears Holdings Corp., the retailer
controlled by hedge fund manager  Edward Lampert , climbed 3.1
percent after reporting a profit.  Facebook Prices  After the close of trading in New York, Facebook Inc. said
it raised $16 billion in the biggest initial public offering by
a technology company in history as it priced the shares at $38
each, the top end of an increased range. The stock is scheduled
to start trading tomorrow under the symbol FB on the Nasdaq
Stock Market.  Gold jumped the most since October as a four-day slump and
speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will announce more stimulus
for the  U.S. economy  boosted demand for the precious metal. The
metal tumbled 3.7 percent in the past four sessions.  Gold futures for June delivery rose 2.5 percent to
$1,574.90 an ounce. Yesterday, prices retreated to as low as
$1,526.70, the lowest since Dec. 29.  The 10-year U.S. Treasury note yield decreased seven basis
points to 1.695 percent, compared with a record low of 1.67
reached in September. The TIPS were auctioned at a so-called
high yield of negative 0.391 percent, the Treasury said today.
The U.S. first sold the 10-year securities at a negative yield
in January. Five-year TIPS have also been sold at negative
yields at the past five auctions of the securities.  Minutes from the last Fed meeting showed yesterday some
policy makers said further easing may be needed should the U.S.
economy slow.  European Shares  Almost five shares dropped for each that gained in the
Stoxx 600, which extended declines to the lowest level this
year.  Bankia SA (BKIA)  plunged 14 percent, bringing this week’s decline
to 31 percent, as El Mundo reported that customers have
withdrawn 1 billion euros from accounts at the Spanish bank
since the government took over the lender on May 9.  European banks slumped 2.4 percent as a group, sliding to
the lowest level since November, and were the biggest drag on
the Stoxx 600 among 19 industries. Spain’s IBEX 35 Index lost
1.1 percent to a nine-year low, while Italy’s FTSE MIB Index
slid to the lowest level since March 2009.  After markets closed in New York, Moody’s cut ratings on 16
Spanish banks and Santander UK Plc.  ‘Fabric of the Euro’  “While the situation in Greece represents a greater short-
term risk for investors, the banking and economic crisis in
Spain is just as significant a threat not just to financial
markets but to the fabric of the  euro zone  itself,” said Ted Scott, portfolio manager at F&C Asset Management Plc in London.
“The Spanish government will probably be forced to pour more
money into the banks,” he said, and that “will only add to the
country’s deficit and debt ratios.”  The euro has a 42 percent chance of losing a member by the
end of this year and 60.5 percent chance of losing one by the
end of next year, according to Intrade.com, which offers betting
on outcomes of various events.  Greek Standoff  The leaders of Greece’s two biggest parties clashed over
how the country could stay in the euro, underscoring the
political deadlock that triggered the decision to hold a second
national vote in six weeks. The conflict between Syriza leader
Alexis Tsipras, who opposes the austerity demanded by the
European Union bailout, and Antonis Samaras, leader of  New
Democracy , sets the next June 17 vote up as a referendum on
Greece staying in the 17-nation currency bloc.  German bunds rose, pushing yields on two, five and 10-year
debt to record lows. Spain’s 10-year yield climbed 2 basis
points to 6.31 percent and rose to 4.9 percentage points above
rates on benchmark German bunds, a record on a closing basis.  Spain sold 2.49 billion euros ($3.2 billion) of debt as the
yield on notes maturing in July 2015 rose to 4.876 percent from
4.037 percent when they were last auctioned two weeks ago. Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said yesterday that Spain faces the
“serious risk” of losing access to debt markets and called on
European institutions for support.  Markets in Switzerland, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Finland,
Austria and Luxembourg are among those closed today for the
Ascension holiday.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  slipped 0.4 percent to a
four-month low as gains in Asian markets partially offset losses
elsewhere. The Shanghai Composite Index jumped 1.4 percent and
Taiwan’s Taiex Index advanced 1.7 percent.  The MSCI BRIC Index fell 1.3 percent, extending its drop
from this year’s high to a bear-market plunge of more than 20
percent. The gauge tracks shares in  Brazil (IBOV) , Russia, India and
 China . Russia’s Micex entered a bear market as OAO Sberbank, the
country’s biggest bank, tumbled after a policy maker said
lending is stagnating. Brazil’s Bovespa lost 3.3 percent and
extended its drop from a March peak to more than 20 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  