-- Donna Summer, Disco Queen Turned Pop Star, Dies at 63
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-05-18T17:54:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/donna-summer-disco-queen-and-pop-star-dies-at-63.html
Donna Summer, the gospel-raised
singer who bridged 1970s disco and the pop music that followed
with hits such as “Love to Love You Baby,” “Last Dance” and
“She Works Hard for the Money,” has died. She was 63.  Summer died yesterday of  lung cancer  at her home in
 Florida , according to her Los Angeles-based spokesman,  Brian
Edwards . The singer was a non-smoker, he said.  “While we grieve her passing, we are at peace celebrating
her extraordinary life and her continued legacy,” said a
statement issued in the name of her husband, singer-songwriter
Bruce Sudano, and their two children. Summer had another
daughter from her first marriage.  Summer dominated the music charts in the late 1970s, with
 albums  including “Bad Girls,” released in 1979 by Casablanca
Records. She was nominated for induction this year into the Rock
and Roll Hall of Fame in  Cleveland , but fell short in voting.  Summer “was the biggest star to emerge from the mid-70s
disco explosion and went on to pursue a successful pop career,”
the Rolling Stone Encyclopedia of Rock & Roll said.  According to  Billboard.com, Summer landed 32 singles on the
Hot 100 in her lifetime, with 14 reaching the top 10. She also
had a top 40 hit every year from 1976 to 1984. Her four hits
that reached No. 1 were “MacArthur Park,” “Hot Stuff,” “Bad
Girls” and “No More Tears (Enough Is Enough),” a duet with
 Barbra Streisand , Billboard said.  Grammy Awards  She received the first of her five Grammy Awards in 1978,
for “Last Dance.” The final one came in 1997, for “Carry
On.”  To her fans and followers, she was an emblem of her time.
“The sound of an era,” film critic Roger Ebert wrote on his
Twitter feed. “Studio 54, where are you?”  Singer Kelly Osbourne tweeted, “Tonight my last dance is
in honor of you!”  LaDonna Andrea Gaines was born on Dec. 31, 1948, in  Boston ,
according to the Rolling Stone encyclopedia.  She sang first at her church, then in choirs and clubs in
 New York . At 19, she was cast in a production of the musical
“Hair” in Munich, and during her seven years in  Europe , she
married and divorced Helmut Sommer, an Austrian actor. She kept
the Anglicized version of his name after the couple broke up.  Also while in Europe, she came up with the title and a few
lyrics for what would become “Love to Love You Baby.” The song
reached the U.S. in 1975 and became a major disco hit as a 17-
minute single, packed with erotic exhalations.  Academy Award  “I didn’t tell my parents about it for a long time,”
Summer told CBS’s “Sunday Morning” in 2008, “and then finally
when the song was really, really just on the radio in America, I
got the call: ‘What is this? What are you singing here?’” She
said she replied, “Well, Mom, it’s a long story.”  “Last Dance,” written by  Paul Jabara , appeared with
Summer herself in the film “Thank God It’s Friday” (1978) and
won the Academy Award for best original song.  Asked whether she’d always be the queen of disco, Summer
told “Sunday Morning” in 2008: “No, actually, I’m trying to
change it to empress now. I’ve been the queen long enough. I’m
older, I’d like to be an empress, OK?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  