-- DoubleLine’s Gundlach Says Avoid Shorter Bonds: Tom Keene
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-05-17T18:02:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/doubleline-s-gundlach-says-avoid-short-maturity-bonds-tom-keene.html
Investors should avoid highly rated
shorter-maturity debt because the potential returns are too low,
according to DoubleLine Capital LP’s  Jeffrey Gundlach .  “There is absolutely no reason to own any investment-grade
bonds inside of three years for sure,” Gundlach, chief
executive officer of Los Angeles-based DoubleLine, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance Midday” with
Tom Keene. “And maybe even five years is getting to that
category because it has no yield.”  The U.S. Federal Reserve has helped drive down bond yields
by pledging to hold its  target  for short-term rates near zero
until 2014 to support the economy. Yields on investment-grade
corporate bonds with maturities in one to three years averaged
1.79 percent yesterday, near the record low of 1.46 percent
reached in August 2011 and down from 5.35 percent at the end of
2006, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  The central bank is unlikely to change its stance to fight
inflation because it wants price gains, “so it’s not like you
will be rolling over into higher yields any time soon,”
Gundlach said. He said he’s focusing on mortgage debt, which
offers better yields, “though not what we’d like to see.”  Gundlach’s $24.7 billion  DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund (DBLTX) 
has returned 4 percent this year, beating about 95 percent of
rivals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The fund held
about 78 percent of assets in mortgage-related securities as of
March.  Facebook IPO  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s initial public offering today of as much as
$16 billion, while likely to go well, “seems emblematic of a
market top,” Gundlach said. The offering of new shares is the
largest by a technology company.  “It’s like the tallest building,” he said. “The Empire
State Building was built in 1929. Now, you have the tallest
building in  New York  again being built. They go in cycles.”  He said investors don’t understand that dividend-paying
stocks aren’t a proxy for bonds. These equities may have lower
volatility than others, yet they’re still affected by drops in
the stock market, he said.  “Dividend-paying stocks are kind of misunderstood,”
Gundlach said. “It’s not a bond equivalent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net 
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  