-- Dynegy Directors Sued by Investor Over Plants’ Transfer
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-05-17T22:07:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/dynegy-directors-sued-by-investor-over-plants-transfer.html
Dynegy Inc. (DYN) ’s directors were sued by
an investor claiming they wrongfully agreed to transfer  power
plants  from a unit the company later put into bankruptcy to
benefit billionaire  Carl Icahn  and other shareholders.  Board members of Houston-based Dynegy, the U.S.’s fourth-
largest independent power producer by revenue, should be held
liable for damaging the company by shifting the coal-fired
plants to keep them out of bankruptcy, Cleo Zahariades said
today in a  Delaware Chancery Court  lawsuit. A bankruptcy
examiner in March found the move amounted to a “fraudulent
transfer” that harmed creditors.  Directors “were fully aware and participated in the
improper actions taken by Dynegy and its subsidiaries, as well
as the cover-up of the fraudulent transfer,” Zahariades said in
the complaint filed in Wilmington.  Dynegy put units including Dynegy Holdings LLC into Chapter
11 bankruptcy in November after bondholders sued Dynegy in  New
York  state court over the power-plant shift.  Katy Sullivan, a Dynegy spokeswoman, said in a telephone
interview that company officials “were reviewing the
complaint” and declined to comment further on the suit.  Bondholders Sue  The Illinois-based plants that were transferred have a
combined capacity of more than 3,100 megawatts, according to
Dynegy’s  website . That’s enough to power 2.5 million average
U.S. homes, based on Energy Department data.  Dynegy said in July it would restructure to avoid violating
a covenant in the company’s loan agreement. Dynegy created two
units, one owning eight natural-gas-fired power plants and
another the six coal-fired plants. Both would be “bankruptcy
remote,” insulating them if affiliates became insolvent,
according to a statement.  After the Chapter 11 filing, bankruptcy examiner Susheel Kirpalani concluded the plant transfer wasn’t proper and backed
creditors’ complaints that the shift shielded half of Dynegy
Holdings’ revenue-generating assets from their claims. Kirpalani
was selected by the U.S. Trustee, an arm of the  Justice
Department  that oversees bankruptcies.  The examiner said the Dynegy board’s actions in connection
with the plants’ transfer “were an invitation to litigation,”
according to the Delaware complaint.  Kirpalani’s report prompted lawyers for the U.S. Trustee to
ask U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Cecelia Morris in Poughkeepsie, New
York, to appoint a trustee to run Dynegy Holdings.  Bankruptcy Settlement  The report also spurred Dynegy officials last month to
negotiate a settlement with creditors holding $2.5 billion in
claims against the bankrupt unit. Under the accord, Dynegy
Holdings’ unsecured creditors will get 99 percent of the equity
in the reorganized company, the parent company said.  Directors’ miscues in overseeing the transfer of the plants
harmed Dynegy by putting it in a position to lose control of the
unit as part of the bankruptcy case, Zahariades said in the
Delaware suit.  The investor’s so-called derivative lawsuit would return
any recovery from insurance covering Dynegy officers and
directors to the company’s coffers.  The investor case is Zahariades v. Elward, CA No. 7539,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington). The bankruptcy case is In
re Dynegy Holdings LLC, 11-38111,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Poughkeepsie).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  