-- East Timor Ends First Decade Fighting Oil Curse
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-05-17T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/east-timor-ends-first-decade-fighting-oil-curse.html
The Southeast Asian nation of  East
Timor  celebrates 10 years of independence tomorrow night facing
a challenge that has eluded emerging economies across the world:
How to stop oil wealth wrecking your economy.  After a decade of contract delays, deadlocked oilfield
negotiations with  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL)  and a political crisis
that almost precipitated civil war, East Timor has moved from
the poorest country in Asia, dependent entirely on international
aid, to one with a $10 billion resources fund and almost
entirely dependent on oil.  East Timor is trying to beat an economic trap called the
resource curse where dependence on mineral exports hurts other
industries by boosting the currency, and workers are drawn from
agriculture and business, making the country reliant on imports
of food and other goods. Success may make Prime Minister Xanana Gusmao’s 20-year development plan a guide for other oil-
dependent nations such as Chad, Angola and Gabon.  “The real responsibility of the government is to ensure
that the oil revenues are not just consumed in a quick binge --
that’s the resource curse,” Columbia University professor
Jeffrey Sachs said. “This country started out impoverished,
war-torn, under a long era of colonial rule, so there’s a lot of
building to be done.”  This year is a critical test for the nation, formally known
as Timor-Leste. Gusmao, now prime minister, faces a general
election in July and outgoing president and Nobel laureate Jose Ramos-Horta hands over his role this weekend to former army
chief Jose Maria Vasconcelos, known by his nom de guerre Taur Matan Ruak. United Nations peacekeepers are scheduled to leave
by the end of the year.  Coup Attempt  The last time they pulled out, in 2005, was followed a year
later by a dispute within the country’s military that escalated
into an attempted coup and violence across the country that
killed 37 people and forced 155,000 people, or 15 percent of the
1.1 million population, from their homes.  “We were on the edge of a civil war, a failing state,”
said Ramos-Horta, who also survived an assassination attempt by
rebels in 2008. “We have to make sure that we have a stable and
credible government.”  At the heart of East Timor’s future are offshore energy
deposits that the country needs to wean it off international aid
and build an economy before the biggest field currently
producing, Bayu-Undan, starts to run dry in about 2023.
Extending the revenue stream will require the government to
break an impasse with Woodside, which leads a consortium
including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  Osaka Gas Co. (9532) 
to develop the larger Sunrise gas field.  Timor Gap  While East Timor gets revenue from the fields under a UN-
brokered agreement with  Australia , about 500 kilometers (310
miles) to the south, it doesn’t control them because they lie
partly in a disputed area known as the Timor Gap.  East Timor wants to pipe the gas to a processing plant on
its soil that would liquefy the gas for shipment by tanker.
Woodside, Australia’s second-largest oil and gas producer, and
its partners including Royal Dutch Shell Plc, want to use a
floating LNG plant.  “By early 2013 we’ll reach an agreement,” Ramos-Horta
said in a May 4 interview in  Singapore . “It’s in our common
interest to develop that area in such a way that’s fair,
equitable and brings real tangible benefits to our people.”  Ramos-Horta said East Timor would consider Woodside’s
option as long as the company proved it was more economic for
both sides and his country will “benefit from downstream
activities, such as supply services based on East Timor.”  Onshore Options  Woodside Chief Executive Officer  Peter Coleman  said the
company is prepared to consider alternatives including locating
some production facilities in Australia or East Timor.  “I’m hoping 2013 is the year we agree,” Coleman said in
a May 14 interview in Adelaide.  Sunrise, which was discovered in 1974, a year before
 Portugal  ended two centuries of colonial rule, could produce 4
million metric tons of LNG per year, according to Deutsche Bank.
That’s worth about $3.2 billion a year at  current prices .  East Timor and Australia share royalties from the field
50/50. The project could cost $13.2 billion to develop and would
export its first cargo by 2017, analysts at Deutsche Bank said
in a May 11 report.  The government appointed  State Street Global Advisors  to
manage its oil fund and said in a March 17 e-mail it plans to
increase investment in global stocks by June to as much as $2
billion, or 20 percent of the fund. The MSCI World Index of
stocks has since dropped more than 9 percent.  Assets in the fund, all invested in U.S. government bonds
until 2009, were $9.9 billion in February.  Rampaging Militia  The money is needed to rebuild infrastructure, much of
which was destroyed during a rampage by Indonesian militia who
burned schools and hospitals and wrecked power pylons across the
country in 1999 after the Timorese voted in a referendum to end
24 years of Indonesian occupation.  East Timor’s Finance Minister Emilia Pires remembers trying
to get through Indonesian immigration before independence.  “I was shaking, so scared,” she told bankers and
investors in a May 5 presentation in  Manila . “I went to the
counter and was putting money and more money on top of it as a
bribe so I could get through. And the guy looked at me and said
no because my name was on the blacklist.”  Relations have improved with  Indonesia , whose West Timor
shares a land border on Timor island. In March 2011 former
guerilla fighter Gusmao visited Jakarta, where he spent six
years in prison in the 1990s, to sign an agreement that will see
the former occupiers help train officials in tourism, trade and
education and invest in infrastructure.  Asean Goal  Reconciliation with its neighbor may help East Timor’s goal
of joining the  Association of Southeast Asian Nations  in 2013.  “We have been very much supported by Indonesia,” said
Ramos-Horta. “Right now, we’re the odd man out in the region.”  Meantime, East Timor is trying to use existing oil revenue
to help rebuild. The country has adopted the  U.S. dollar  as its
currency, partly shielding it from the resource curse.  The government is upgrading about 3,000 kilometers of roads
and plans to build two ports in the next five years, Pires said.  “We are investing in basic infrastructure,” she said.
“No one can do that for us. We have to do it. In four years, we
turned the country around. We have grown by double digits in the
past four years, and we plan to do that in the next decade.”  Still, the country has far to go. In the  World Economic
Forum ’s ranking of global competitiveness published in September,
East Timor came 131st out of 142, the lowest in  Asia . Of the 22
countries in a May 2011 Bloomberg Economic Momentum Index for
Developing Asia, a measure of ability to maintain steady and
rapid growth over the next five years, East Timor was last.  “There are tremendous challenges ahead and the road is not
a smooth one,” said Noeleen Heyzer, executive secretary of the
United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the
Pacific in Bangkok. “They are trying extremely hard to avoid
the resources curse. Now, they should be capitalizing on
fisheries, agriculture and tourism and not just oil and gas.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at   lklemming@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net . 