-- BRIC Stocks Head for Bear Market as Growth Woes Deepen
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   S t e v e   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-05-17T21:29:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/east-european-stocks-fall-to-seven-month-low-as-micex-tumbles.html
The  MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC)  fell, extending
the gauge’ drop from this year’s high to more than 20 percent,
on mounting concern that Europe’s debt crisis and slower U.S.
economic growth will curb exports.  The benchmark index of shares in  Brazil ,  Russia , China and
 India  slipped 1.3 percent to 258.78 at the close of trading in
 New York , swelling its retreat to 21 percent from this year’s
peak on March 2, a threshold analysts say marks a  bear market .
 LLX Logistica SA (LLXL3) , the port company controlled by Brazilian
billionaire  Eike Batista , led declines in the country’s  Bovespa (IBOV) 
measure. Russia’s 30-stock  Micex (INDEXCF)  Index sank 3.5 percent, also
entering a bear market. The 21-country  MSCI Emerging Markets
Index (MXEF)  dropped to a four-month low.  An index of U.S. leading indicators unexpectedly fell in
April, indicating the pace of economic expansion in the world’s
largest economy may be slowing. Greece’s credit rating  was
downgraded one level by  Fitch Ratings  on “heightened risk” that
the country will not be able to sustain its membership in the
euro area while Moody’s Investors Service cut the credit ratings
of 16 Spanish banks, citing economic weakness and the
government’s mounting budget strain.  “ Emerging markets  had already been suffering their own
headwinds and now they’re going to be buffeted by additional
negative developments in the developed countries,” Komal Sri- Kumar, chief global strategist at TCW Group Inc., which oversees
about $120 billion, said in a phone interview from Los Angeles.
“ China  is facing a slowdown and inflation in India has shot up,
making it hard for authorities there to cut rates. At the same
time, Greece is on its way to a default. The immediate impact on
emerging markets is negative.”  Greece Concerns  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index is heading for a ninth week
of declines, its longest stretch of weekly losses since 1994.
More than $3 trillion of global stock market value has been
erased this month.  Brazil also entered  bear  market, as its benchmark gauge
fell for an eighth day, the longest losing streak in more than
10 years, extending its decline since its recent high on March
13 to 21 percent. Rio de Janeiro-based LLX lost 7.5 percent to
2.48 reais, the lowest since 2009.  The developing nations’ index, up 0.5 percent this year,
trades at 9.8 times estimated earnings, compared with 11.7 for
the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of advanced nations, which has added 0.8
percent in 2012.  The Micex declined for the fifth day in six as OAO Sberbank
lost 7.2 percent. The lender has the third-biggest weighting on
the gauge at 14 percent. Polish  stocks  lost 3 percent as  Kernel
Holding SA (KER) , Ukraine’s biggest sunflower-oil producer, plunged
7.8 percent after cutting its profit outlook for the 2012 fiscal
year.  South Africa, Poland  South Africa ’s FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index declined 0.8
percent.  Investec Ltd. (INL) , a banking group and  fund manager  with
operations in South Africa,  Australia  and the U.K., retreated
for a fourth day, dropping 2.3 percent after the company
reported a 41 percent decline in full-year profit.  The  MSCI EM Eastern Europe Index (MXME)  retreated 3.6 percent to
172.58 with  Bank Pekao SA (PEO)  falling 3.9 percent in Warsaw.  Asian stocks rallied today on speculation China will take
steps to boost economic growth and the Fed will do more to
stimulate the  U.S. economy .  China said it will allocate 26.5 billion  yuan  ($4.2
billion) in subsidies to promote the use of energy-saving
household appliances and products, replacing a consumption-
incentive program that ended last year. The nation will allocate
a further 6 billion yuan of subsidies for purchases of vehicles
with engines of less than 1.6 liters, it said.  Philippines, Taiwan  Japan ’s economy expanded by a faster-than-estimated 4.1
percent in the first quarter, boosted by reconstruction spending
that’s poised to fade just as a worsening in  Europe ’s crisis
threatens to curtail export demand.  Singapore also reported a rebound in growth last quarter as
gross domestic product increased by 10 percent, while warning
about the risk of a disorderly European debt default.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index surged 3.1 percent, the
largest gain among its Asian peers, as it snapped a six-day
slump. Taiwan’s Taiex added 1.7 percent and the BSE India
Sensitive Index climbed 0.3 percent.  “It’s true that stocks are oversold in a short period of
time, but uncertainties especially in Europe should linger on
for a while,” said Chung Yun Sik, the Seoul-based chief
investment officer for equities at ING Investment Management
Korea Ltd., which oversees about $16 billion.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries advanced 7 basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 401, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  