-- Lebanon Seeks $2 Billion in Bonds This Year as Yields Drop
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-05-17T14:37:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/lebanon-seeks-2-billion-in-eurobonds-this-year-minister-says.html
Finance Minister Mohammad Safadi said
Lebanon plans to raise $2 billion from international bond
markets this year after borrowing costs of the most-indebted
Arab country dropped to a record.  The ministry also plans to exchange existing debt valued at
$3 billion with new bonds within the coming year, Safadi said in
an interview. The possible sale of benchmark-size bonds depends
on market conditions and the ministry has yet to appoint
advisers, he said. Benchmark-size typically means a sale of at
least $500 million.  Lebanon would use the proceeds to invest in electricity and
gas infrastructure, Safadi said, as the government seeks to
bolster economic growth. The country last tapped international
bond investors in March, raising $600 million in 5 percent
dollar bonds due October 2017 and increasing the size of its 6.6
percent bond due November 2026 by $350 million to $725 million.  “The market has shown us that we can have long
maturities,” Safadi said in his Beirut office. “We are hoping
to make use of that trust.”  Lebanese Debt  The yield on the 6.6 percent dollar bonds rose one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, today to 6.29 percent, six
basis points above the low on March 23, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The  premium  investors demand to hold Lebanese
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose five basis points this year to
389, lower than similarly rated countries such as  Egypt  and,
Senegal and  Ghana , JPMorgan Chase & Co. data show. Lebanon is
rated B1 at Moody’s Investors Service, four levels below
investment grade.  Standard & Poor’s  rates the country one level
lower.  The performance of Lebanon’s bonds reflect strong demand
from cash-rich domestic banks, making the country stand out as
the closest thing to a safe haven during market turmoil, Sergey
Dergachev, who helps manage $8.5 billion of emerging-market 
assets at Union Investment Privatfonds in  Frankfurt , said May 14.  Deposits in Lebanese banks grew at an annualized rate of 8
percent this year, the same as in all of 2011, Central Bank
Governor Riad Salameh said last week. Bank balance sheets rose
an annual 11 percent in January, according to central bank data.  ‘Surprised Us’  Lebanon’s economy grew more than 4.5 percent in 2011,  three
times faster  than the  International Monetary Fund  had estimated,
Safadi said, even after domestic and regional unrest brought
growth to a halt in the first quarter. Lebanon is targeting
growth of 3 percent this year, though the minister said the
forecast may be conservative.  “It actually surprised us,” Safadi said, referring to
last year’s expansion. “Retail recovered a lot, tourism
recovered quite a bit and it gave a boost to the whole market.”  The government forecasts the  budget deficit  to stay little
changed this year at 6.6 percent of gross domestic product
because of increased public-sector wages. Safadi expects the
debt-to-GDP ratio to remain unchanged at 135 percent.  The debt burden has prompted some international investors
such as Aberdeen Asset Management to shun Lebanese debt at these
levels. Safadi said pressure for higher yields also comes from
the domestic market.  Fair Yields  “Up till now we have managed to resist that pressure and
our offerings are in line with what we think is fair to us and
the market,” he said.  Lebanon’s banks have been reducing their exposure to
government debt since 2009, Salameh, the central bank governor,
said in an interview on May 11.  Safadi said the government plans to impose a 15 percent
 capital-gains  tax and will raise  import duties  on items such as
tobacco and alcohol to pay for higher wages. Most of the
proceeds from the tax on capital gains will come from the real
estate industry, he said.  “We are also increasing the tax threshold on some economic
sectors that we feel won’t be affected,” he said, without
giving details. “I am not financing these increases through the
deficit, that’s the important message. I am financing all the
increases through taxation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  