-- Lebanon Eyes $2 Billion Bond Sale as Yields Decline
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-05-17T22:08:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/lebanon-eyes-2-billion-in-bonds-for-investments-as-yields-fall.html
Finance Minister Mohammad Safadi said
Lebanon plans to raise $2 billion in international bond markets
this year, taking advantage of record-low borrowing costs for
the most-indebted Arab nation.  “We are now talking to the financial markets to get their
advice on when the best time is” for the sale of at least $500
million in bonds, Safadi said in an interview in Beirut
yesterday. Lebanon also plans to exchange existing debt valued
at $3 billion with new bonds within the coming year, he said.  The planned offering would make Lebanon the largest
sovereign issuer of dollar-denominated bonds in the  Middle East 
based on sales so far this year, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Safadi said Lebanon will use the proceeds to invest in
electricity and gas infrastructure at a time the International
Monetary Fund urged the government to maintain fiscal discipline
to lower one of the world’s highest ratios of debt relative to
gross domestic product.  The country last sold Eurobonds in March, raising $600
million in 5 percent notes due October 2017 and increasing the
size of its 6.6 percent bonds due November 2026 by $350 million
to $725 million.  “The market has shown us that we can have long
maturities,” Safadi said. “We are hoping to make use of that
trust.”  Yields Soar  The yield on the 6.6 percent dollar bonds rose one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, yesterday at 6:05 p.m. in
 Beirut  to 6.29 percent, six basis points above the low on March
23, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The  premium  investors demand to hold Lebanese debt over
U.S. Treasuries has risen five basis points this year to 389,
lower than similarly rated countries such as Egypt, Senegal and
 Ghana , JPMorgan Chase & Co. data show.  Lebanon is rated B1 at Moody’s Investors Service, four
levels below investment grade.  Standard & Poor’s  rates the
country one level lower.  The bond offering plans come at a time that average
 borrowing costs  for high-yield emerging market nations jumped to
a four month high, according to JPMorgan data. The EMBI Global
High Yield Index surged on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis and
slower U.S. economic growth will curb exports.  Deposits in Lebanese banks grew at an annualized rate of 8
percent this year, the same as in all of 2011, Central Bank
Governor Riad Salameh said last week. Bank balance sheets rose
an annual 11 percent in January, according to central bank data.  ‘Surprised Us’  The performance of Lebanon’s bonds reflect strong demand
from cash-rich domestic banks, making the country stand out as
the closest thing to a safe haven during market turmoil, Sergey
Dergachev, who helps manage $8.5 billion of emerging-market
assets at Union Investment Privatfonds in  Frankfurt , said by e-
mail on May 14.  Lebanon’s economy grew more than 4.5 percent in 2011,  three
times faster  than the IMF had estimated, Safadi said, even after
domestic and regional unrest brought growth to a halt in the
first quarter. Lebanon is targeting growth of 3 percent this
year, though the minister said the forecast may be conservative.  “It actually surprised us,” Safadi said, referring to
last year’s expansion. “Retail recovered a lot, tourism
recovered quite a bit and it gave a boost to the whole market.”  The estimated economic growth this year is still “well
below Lebanon’s potential,”   International Monetary Fund  Deputy
Managing Director Nemat Shafik said in a May 10 statement. She
urged authorities to target a primary  budget surplus  -- before
interest on national debt is added -- “which would keep the
debt-to-GDP ratio on a downward path.”  Debt Burden  Lebanon can achieve a primary surplus if  oil prices 
continue to fall, Safadi said. Oil prices have fallen 6.2
percent this year to $92.72 a barrel.  The government forecasts the  budget deficit  to stay little
changed this year at 6.6 percent of gross domestic product
because of increased public-sector wages. That’s below the IMF
estimate of an 8 percent shortfall. Safadi expects the debt-to-
GDP ratio to remain unchanged at 135 percent.  Lebanon’s debt burden has prompted some international
investors such as Aberdeen Asset Management to shun Lebanese
debt at these levels. Safadi said pressure for higher yields
also comes from the domestic market.  Fair Yields  “Up till now we have managed to resist that pressure and
our offerings are in line with what we think is fair to us and
the market,” he said.  The yield on local-currency government debt has risen by 50
basis points since March, in line with an IMF recommendation
that higher rates would help spur bank demand for the
securities. The yield on one-year notes now stands at 5.35
percent, compared with almost 16 percent in  Egypt , according to
data from the central banks of the two countries.  Lebanon’s banks have been reducing their exposure to
government debt since 2009, Salameh, the central bank governor,
said in an interview on May 11. Deposits have climbed at an
annualized rate of 8 percent this year, Salameh said, the same
rate of growth for all of last year.  “Banks would like to see more long-term issues that expect
higher interest rates of course,” he said. “We feel that could
put pressure on us.”  Safadi said the government won’t borrow more to finance
wage increases. Instead, it plans to impose a 15 percent
capital-gains tax and will raise  import duties  on items such as
tobacco and alcohol. Most of the proceeds from the tax on
 capital gains  will come from the real estate industry, he said.  “We are also increasing the tax threshold on some economic
sectors that we feel won’t be affected,” he said, without
giving details. “I am not financing these increases through the
deficit, that’s the important message. I am financing all the
increases through taxation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  