-- Edwards Lied to Cover Affair During Campaign, U.S. Says
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   J o h n   P e r a g i n e
-- 2012-05-18T00:13:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/edwards-lied-to-cover-affair-during-2008-campaign-u-s-says-1-.html
Former presidential candidate  John Edwards  planted seeds of destruction in his 2008 campaign with
his extramarital affair and used a former aide as cover,
prosecutors said at the close of his trial over alleged
campaign-donation violations.  Edwards lied and manipulated staffers and friends to make
sure the “nasty little evidence” of his affair with Rielle Hunter didn’t come to light, Assistant U.S. Attorney Robert
Higdon told jurors in closing arguments today in federal court
in Greensboro, North Carolina.  “Every witness agreed and understood that this would ruin
his campaign,” Higdon said. “ Andrew Young  showed no hesitation
to do anything and everything to serve the man he respected and
idolized.”  Edwards, 58, a former U.S. senator from  North Carolina  and
Democratic presidential contender in 2008, is accused of
illegally using almost $1 million in campaign contributions to
conceal his affair with Hunter, an unemployed filmmaker with
whom he fathered a child. He says the funds came from
friendships with Rachel “Bunny” Mellon, a 101-year-old
multimillionaire heiress, and  Fred Baron , a now-deceased trial
attorney.  Public Revelation  U.S. District Judge Catherine Eagles told jurors today that
the government doesn’t have to prove the money at issue in the
case was for the sole benefit of promoting Edwards’s campaign.  “People rarely act with only one purpose in mind,” Eagles
said.  She also told jurors that they can find Edwards guilty if
they think he deliberately closed his eyes to the money Mellon
and Baron gave on his behalf and the elaborate plans undertaken
to shield Hunter from the media spotlight. Jurors can find
Edwards acted knowingly, if not willfully, to disregard what
would have otherwise been obvious, Eagles said.  Much of the four-week trial focused on the role of Young,
Edwards’s former campaign aide. Young, who testified for
prosecutors under an immunity agreement, allegedly helped plan
and coordinate multiple transactions between Edwards, Baron and
Mellon over a period of months. He testified that Edwards
targeted other supporters before agreeing to Mellon and assured
him the plan to support Hunter was legal.  Young as Opportunist  Lawyers for Edwards argued that Young is an opportunist who
approached Mellon on his own and used most of money she
ultimately gave for vacations, cars and a $1.5 million home in
 Chapel Hill , North Carolina.  Abbe Lowell, an attorney for Edwards, told jurors today
that the path to a not guilty decision has to cut through
Young’s many lies.  “Andrew Young will make up whatever he wants and the
government will build a case on it,” Lowell said during closing
statements. “John Edwards’s conduct in his affair was shameful
but it’s human. Andrew Young’s lies in this case were worse.”  Edwards chose not to take the stand in his defense. His
oldest daughter, Cate, who had been listed as a possible
witness, also didn’t testify.  Edwards’s decision not to testify was the correct one, said
Barry Slotnick, a defense lawyer with the firm Buchanan
Ingersoll & Rooney PC in  New York . Slotnick, who represented
former U.S. Congressman Mario Biaggi on corruption charges, said
Edwards will ultimately be acquitted.  ‘Right and Appropriate’  “They’ve played this right and appropriate,” Slotnick
said of Edwards’s trial team. “It was a well-tried, well-
planned case and I think the jury will be back in short time.
John Edwards will be acquitted and he can go on with his life.”  Edwards is charged with violating the Federal Election Act,
which prohibits using campaign funds for personal use and caps
the amount individuals may contribute to candidates.  Yesterday, Eagles refused to let Edwards introduce as
evidence a 2009 letter by the U.S. Justice Department that
stated the government won’t prosecute if the  Federal Election
Commission  finds no criminal liability. Eagles also denied a
request by the defense to admit a recording of an FEC meeting in
July 2011 during which commissioners said the payments in
dispute weren’t campaign donations.  The fact that Edwards knew the limits on campaign
contributions doesn’t mean he knew that a third-party payment to
a mistress would violate campaign finance laws, Lowell said.  ‘Moral Wrongs’  “John Edwards may have committed many moral wrongs but he
did not commit a legal one,” Lowell said. “He was a bad
husband and lied to his family but there is not a remote chance
that he violated campaign finance laws or committed a felony.”  Lowell urged jurors to consider the testimonies of former
FEC Commissioner  Scott Thomas  and Edwards’s former campaign
treasurer Lora Haggard.  Haggard testified that she didn’t list the payments from
Mellon and Baron on FEC reports because they weren’t campaign
contributions and it would be illegal to report money spent on a
mistress. An audit of the 2008 campaign cleared the payments,
Haggard said.  Although Eagles barred much of Thomas’s testimony on FEC
rules, he told jurors that third-party payments for a third-
party expense such as those in an affair isn’t campaign related.  Advocacy group Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in
 Washington , which filed court papers in the case supporting
Edwards, said today it sent a letter to the  Justice Department 
regarding prosecution of criminal campaign finance violations.  “DOJ can’t have it both ways,” CREW Executive Director
 Melanie Sloan  said in an e-mailed statement. “It can’t claim it
must defer to the FEC one day, then argue that the FEC’s views
are irrelevant the next. Our criminal justice system is based on
the idea we have fair notice of what is and is not against the
law.”  The case is U.S. v. Edwards, 11-00161, U.S. District Court,
Middle District of North Carolina (Greensboro).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
John Peragine in Greensboro, North Carolina, at
 drjohnnd@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  