-- Eircom Examiner Says Hutchison Bid Would Double Lenders’ Loss
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-05-17T11:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/eircom-examiner-says-hutchison-bid-would-double-lenders-loss.html
Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s 2 billion
euro ($2.5 billion) bid for Eircom Group was rejected partly
because it would have doubled the losses suffered by the phone
company’s most senior lenders, the examiner who turned down the
offer said in a court filing.  The first lien lenders to the Dublin-based company would
have recovered 70 percent of their debts, compared with their
own plan for 85 percent recovery and full equity control of
Eircom, the examiner Michael McAteer said in an affidavit filed
this week and obtained by Bloomberg News.  Hutchison Whampoa and New York-based DW Investment
Management, which is representing some Eircom floating-rate note
investors, started a legal challenge on May 15 against McAteer’s
rejection. Judge Peter Kelly is due to hear the case in Dublin
today, after McAteer said he will recommend a survival plan
based on a proposal from the most senior lenders after rejecting
the offer from Hutchison’s Irish unit, Three Ireland.  “Three believes its offer is best for Eircom, its
stakeholders and Ireland Inc,” spokeswoman Rachel Channing said
in an e-mailed statement. “Three’s offer for Eircom still
stands and it is willing to meet with the examiner to firm up on
its proposal.”  A first Hutchison bid on April 27 included a number of
conditions, including the need for approval by 50 percent of
first-lien creditors for the offer, “which was not
forthcoming,” the examiner said in the affidavit.  While a second offer on May 7 dropped this condition, the
bid was still subject to due diligence and antitrust clearance,
which was “questionable,” he said in the affidavit.  A spokeswoman for McAteer declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  