-- Elektra’s Above-Market Buying Overwhelmed by Rout
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2012-05-17T22:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/elektra-s-above-market-buying-overwhelmed-by-mexico-s-worst-rout.html
Ricardo Salinas ,  Grupo Elektra SA (ELEKTRA*) ’s
chairman and controlling shareholder, is fighting a losing
battle to support the stock amid a 59 percent tumble this year.  Elektra, a Mexico City-based retail and banking group,
plunged 12 percent in the past two days to 569.75 pesos,
extending its slide from a record high on Jan. 4, after  MSCI
Inc. (MSCI)  said it will remove the stock from its global indexes at
month-end. Elektra has used its new  brokerage  unit to buy back
shares at above-market prices over the past four weeks, slowing
the tumble in Mexico’s  worst-performing  stock, data compiled by
Bloomberg and the stock exchange show.  The company traded at least 1.13 million of its shares,
participating in transactions that accounted for 31 percent of
volume, through brokerage Punto Casa de Bolsa since it began
operations April 18, according to the data compiled through
yesterday. While Securities and Exchange Commission guidelines
prevent most U.S. companies from dominating their own trading,
 Mexico  sets no such parameters.  “For all they try to support it, the sellers are creating
significant outflows,” said Aldo Miranda, a trader at Intercam
Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico City. “They can’t get in front of
the train.”  Elektra accounted for more than 50 percent of the purchase
volume on four separate days, using Punto almost exclusively
since it opened, the data show. The transactions occurred in the
month before the value of Elektra’s tradable shares sank below
the level required by the exchange to remain in the benchmark
IPC index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and Citigroup
Inc. estimates for the company’s floating shares.  ‘Additional Player’  “The purpose of Grupo Elektra’s buyback fund is to provide
liquidity to the market and to stabilize Elektra’s stock price
on the upside as well as the downside,” Bruno Rangel, investor
relations officer for the company, said in an e-mailed response
to questions. “Elektra’s buyback fund does not execute trades
at above-market prices. It is just one additional player in the
market.”  Rangel said Elektra’s trades adhere to the country’s laws.  Jose Abraham, Punto’s chief executive officer, said in an
e-mailed response to questions that Elektra “is just one more
client, always instructing trading operations, in accordance
with a solid code of ethics.”  MSCI Removal  Carlos Lopez-Moctezuma, a spokesman for the National
Banking and Securities Commission, the country’s securities
regulator, said the company is operating within the confines of
Mexico’s rules.  “We don’t have any reason at this moment to think that
there’s something in the regulations that they’re not complying
with,” Lopez-Moctezuma said in a telephone interview from
Mexico City.  Jorge Alegria, head of markets and information at the stock
exchange, declined to comment.  This year’s stock plunge halts a four-year, 326 percent
rally that analysts at banks including New York-based  Citigroup (C) 
and Mexico City-based Intercam say was sparked by a derivatives
trade that Elektra has disclosed in annual reports since at
least 2001. The company’s 165 percent surge last year was the
biggest among all 817 stocks on MSCI’s benchmark emerging-market
 gauge  as the swaps program made the shares scarce.  “The stock isn’t moving because of fundamentals but
because of flows,” Gerardo Roman, a trader with Corp. Actinver,
the nation’s second-biggest brokerage by accounts, said in a
telephone interview from Mexico City. “If those flows
disappear, obviously the price would drop.”  IPC Eligibility  Elektra traded at more than double the  price-to-earnings 
ratio for the IPC index at the close of trading today, with a
ratio of 14.1 times trailing earnings, leaving out interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization.  The rally ended when Mexico’s stock exchange unveiled new
rules for  IPC (MEXBOL)  index eligibility on April 11, saying shares tied
up in a company’s derivative transactions will no longer be
counted as part of the minimum 12 percent free float required.
Companies whose float is above 10 billion pesos ($722 million)
are exempt from the rule.  Julio Zamora, an analyst at Citigroup in New York,
estimates 6 percent of Elektra’s shares are available for
trading, with 23 percent tied up in the derivatives contract and
71 percent controlled by Salinas. At today’s share price, 6
percent is the equivalent of 8.3 billion pesos, down from 18.3
billion pesos on April 11. The exchange is slated to next
rebalance the IPC in September.  Derivatives Loss  Elektra, which doesn’t hold quarterly conference calls with
investors, reported in its 2010 annual report that it held an
equity swap involving 56 million shares. The company didn’t
provide a figure for the shares involved in the swap in its 2011
report.  Elektra’s “preliminary estimates” indicate it will stay
in the IPC, Rangel said. The company doesn’t know how many
shares its counterparties hold in the swaps because those
parties “freely decide how many shares to have in order to
hedge those contracts, in the proportion they want,” he said.  The equity swap contracts, which allow Elektra to bet on
its stock, have made the company’s earnings dependent on market
swings. Elektra recorded a 7.08 billion peso writedown on the
derivatives in the first quarter as the stock tumbled, saddling
the company with a 3.83 billion peso loss in the period even as
sales surged 35 percent. Last year’s rally led Elektra to post
an almost fivefold increase in fourth-quarter profit to 11
billion pesos.  Premiums Paid  A derivative is a contract between two parties linked to
the future value or status of the underlying asset to which it
refers, including  interest rates  or the price of stocks or
commodities.  Since its April 18 opening, Punto Casa de Bolsa has made
seven purchases of Elektra at a premium of 3 percent or more to
the price paid by the previous buyer. No other brokerage carried
out more than three transactions at such a big premium on stocks
in the benchmark IPC index during that time, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg through yesterday.  At 11:35 a.m. on April 20, Punto executed a purchase order
at 920 pesos for Elektra shares, a 4 percent premium to the
price paid in a transaction less than one minute earlier. The
stock ended the day down 1.7 percent at 908.72 pesos after
earlier falling as much as 6.1 percent. At 10:39 a.m. on April
26, Punto made a purchase order at a 3.3 percent premium to the
price paid 11 seconds earlier, the data show.  SEC Settlement  Punto has almost exclusively traded shares in Elektra and
Mexico City-based  TV Azteca SAB (AZTECACP) , which is also controlled by
Salinas, who has a net wealth of $10.8 billion, according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index . Non-Salinas companies accounted
for less than 0.1 percent of Punto’s transactions, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Salinas agreed to pay a fine to settle charges he reaped
improper profits from undisclosed loan deals involving a TV
Azteca subsidiary, according to a September 2006 statement from
the SEC. Salinas, 56, didn’t admit or deny the allegations when
he agreed to the settlements, according to the SEC.  Shareholders of Elektra and TV Azteca voted to remove the
companies’ shares from the New York Stock Exchange in 2005 after
the civil fraud suit was filed against Salinas by the SEC.  Punto’s role as the biggest buyer of Elektra stock has
surpassed that of peers in the nation’s benchmark index and
abroad. Grupo Financiero Inbursa SAB, the Mexican lender
controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , was the  third-biggest 
buyer of Slim’s wireless carrier America Movil, accounting for
14 percent of the volume in the past year. In the U.S.,
Citigroup was the eighth-biggest trader of its own shares, with
2.7 percent of total volume.  U.S. Rules  John Coffee , a professor of U.S. securities law at  Columbia
University  in  New York , said stock markets need clear rules on
buybacks to prevent companies from exerting too much influence
over trading.  U.S. companies seeking so-called safe harbor from
manipulation charges shouldn’t repurchase in one day more than
25 percent of the average daily volume over the past four weeks,
according to the SEC’s website. Mexico sets no buyback limit
based on daily trading volume and allows companies to acquire as
much as 3 percent of the shares in circulation in the open
market over a 20-day period.  In the U.S., “this has long been governed by very clear
quantitative restrictions because otherwise you are in effect
manipulating the market,” Coffee said in a telephone interview
from New York. “We let you buy, but not more than what I would
call an immaterial percentage of the overall trade.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  