-- Embrace the One-Percent Solution for Saving Lives
-- B y   N a v i   R a d j o u ,   J a i d e e p   P r a b h u ,   S i m o n e   A h u j a
-- 2012-05-17T20:07:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/embrace-the-one-percent-solution-for-saving-lives.html
     Each year, twenty million babies worldwide are born
prematurely or with a low birth weight, and four million of
them die, most in developing nations. Those who survive often
suffer from low IQ, diabetes, and heart disease when they
reach adulthood. According to the World Health
Organization, 75% of these deaths and ailments could be averted
by simply keeping these premature babies warm.
Unfortunately, current options for warming babies in
developing nations are either expensive or unsafe. The
incubators sold in Western countries cost up to $20,000 and
require electricity — which is unreliable in developing
nations. And ad-hoc solutions like positioning babies under
bare light bulbs are simply risky.  Enter jugaad innovation — a cost-effective approach for
creating affordable products and services using limited
resources. Jane Chen, Linus Liang, Naganand Murty, and Rahul
Panicker cofounded a company called Embrace to come up with an
affordable infant warmer for use in developing countries — one
that costs far less than incubators available in the West. The
founders came up with the idea for Embrace's frugal business
model while they were all attending Stanford
University's Entrepreneurial Design for Extreme Affordability
program. After producing an initial prototype — a
stripped-down version of traditional incubators powered by
electricity — they traveled to Nepal to test it in an urban
hospital. But they soon learned that 80 percent of babies that
die prematurely in developing nations like Nepal are born at
home in villages, far from well-equipped hospitals and without
access to regular electricity.  That insight led them to fundamentally rethink who their
users really were. Realizing that their customers were doctors
and parents in villages, they set out to identify the product
features that would bring the most value to these rural users.
That inquiry led them to design a portable infant warmer that
looks like a tiny sleeping bag and gives mothers greater
mobility and more intimate contact with their babies. The bag
in turn contains a pouch of a wax-like phase-change material
(PCM) that keeps babies warm for up to six hours at regular
body temperatures. Not only is this infant warmer intuitive to
use, but it requires only thirty minutes of electricity to
heat up the PCM pouch — using a portable electric heater that
comes with the product. Further, this design dovetails well
with the recommended practice of ''kangaroo care,'' whereby a
mother holds her baby against her skin (hence the company name
''Embrace'').  Most importantly, priced at approximately $200, the
Embrace portable infant warmer costs merely 1 percent of what
incubators in Western markets cost. In 2011, Embrace piloted
the product in India, where 1.2 million premature babies die
each year. Early results have been very encouraging. A
preliminary study validated Embrace's safety and efficacy with
twenty infants. Embrace then undertook a more extensive
clinical study of 160 premature babies. In one instance, a
two-pound baby born to parents from a village near
Bangalore, in Southern India, was kept in the Embrace infant
warmer for twenty days and began to gain weight — bringing
great joy to its parents, who had lost two babies previously.  Embrace uses rapid prototyping techniques to get fast
customer feedback on new product features and to zero in on
the attributes that are of highest relevance and value to
rural customers. For instance, after noticing that mothers in
Indian villages didn't trust numerical displays that indicate
whether the temperature is right, Embrace replaced the
numerical scale with symbols indicating ''OK'' or ''Not OK.''
Similarly, Embrace is planning to release a future version of
its product targeted at mothers who live in far-flung villages
with no electricity at all: in this version, the PCM pouch
will be heated — and thus ''recharged'' — using a heating
device that runs on hot water (instead of electricity).  Embrace is also experimenting with different pricing
models — such as a rental option — to make its product
extremely affordable in countries like India, where hundreds
of millions in villages live on less than $2 U.S. a day.
''Entrepreneurs often fall in love with their original product
idea or business model and fail to listen to customers,'' Chen
explains. ''We, on the other hand, have no qualms about
modifying our product features and pricing again and again
until we find a solution that delivers the highest value to
our customers at the lowest cost for them. For us, innovation
is a dynamic process that never ends.''  Embrace has already negotiated partnerships with
multinational pharmaceutical and medical device companies such
as GE Healthcare. The company is also working with local NGOs
to piggyback on their extensive distribution networks to make
the Embrace infant warmer accessible to as many hospitals and
clinics as possible in countries like India. Finally, Embrace
is testing its infant warmer at the Lucile Packard Children's
Hospital at Stanford University: the entrepreneurs believe
there is a big market for Embrace's product in the United
States, where infant mortality rates are among the highest in
the developed world. Embrace has set itself a bold target of
saving the lives of more than 100,000 babies over the next
three years, as well as preventing illness in more than
700,000 babies. Here's a video interview we did with Jane Chen
that talks more about this.  Embrace is a clear example of how jugaad innovators are
able to find abundance in scarcity — and to share that
abundance with customers and other stakeholders who also face
scarcity. Jugaad innovators may lack financial, natural, and
technological resources, but they compensate by finding
ingenious ways to leverage social networks and their intimate
knowledge of customers to create and deliver more value at
less cost. In many ways, jugaad innovators embody Theodore
Roosevelt's belief that
''all the resources we need are in the mind.''  Do you know of similar frugal business models — pioneered
by entrepreneurs or large corporations — that deliver
customers significantly more value at much lower cost? Please
share them with us in the comments below.  This post is adapted from the book Jugaad Innovation:
Think Frugal, Be Flexible, Generate Breakthrough Growth
(Jossey-Bass, 2012).  Navi Radjou is a Silicon Valley-based
strategy consultant and a Fellow at Judge Business
School, University of Cambridge, where Dr. Jaideep Prabhu is
the Jawaharlal Nehru Professor of Indian Business and
Enterprise. Dr. Simone Ahuja is the founder of Blood Orange.
Radjou, Prabhu, and Ahuja are co-authors of Jugaad Innovation:
Think Frugal, Be Flexible, Generate Breakthrough Growth. 