-- Most Emerging Stocks Gain on China Easing, U.S. Fed Remarks
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-05-17T11:08:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/emerging-stocks-rebound-from-4-month-low-on-fed-comment-china.html
Most emerging-market stocks rose, as
the benchmark index rebounded from a four-month low, on
speculation  China  will take steps to boost economic growth and
the  Federal Reserve  will do more to stimulate the  U.S. economy .  Advancing stocks outnumbered decliners by 379 to 249 as
the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  traded little changed at 924.51
as of 12:02 p.m. in  London . The gauge earlier climbed as much as
1 percent, the most since April 12.  Chinese shares  advanced for
the first time in five days. Russian stocks headed for the
lowest since October amid concern that Greece’s financial crisis
is worsening as the region’s central bank paused lending to some
of the country’s banks. OAO Sberbank, Russia’s biggest bank,
slid.  China’s economic growth is likely to accelerate for the
first time in seven quarters after banks’ reserve  requirements 
were cut, buoying global expansion threatened by a possible
Greek exit from the euro. Third-quarter  growth  will rebound to
8.3 percent from 7.9 percent this quarter, according to the
median estimate of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Minutes from the last Federal Reserve meeting showed some policy
makers said further easing may be necessary should the U.S.
economy slow.  “The measures in China are helping sentiment,” said Chung Yun Sik, the Seoul-based chief investment officer for equities
at ING Investment Management Korea Ltd., which oversees about
$16 billion. “It’s true that stocks are oversold in a short
period of time, but uncertainties especially in  Europe  should
linger on for a while.”  Greece Concerns  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index is heading for a ninth week
of declines, its longest stretch of weekly losses since 1994.
More than $3 trillion of global stock market value has been
erased this month as concern Greece will exit the euro curbed
demand for riskier assets.  The developing nation’s index, up 1.1 percent this year,
trades at 9.9 times estimated earnings, compared with 11.8 for
the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of advanced nations, which has added 1.7
percent in 2012.  In the U.S., the Fed signaled further monetary easing
remains an option to protect the U.S. economy from the danger
that lawmakers will fail to reach agreement on the budget or
Europe’s debt woes worsen.  Japan ’s economy expanded by a faster-than-estimated 4.1
percent in the first quarter, boosted by reconstruction spending
that’s poised to fade just as a worsening in Europe’s crisis
threatens to curtail export demand.  Singapore also reported a rebound in growth last quarter as
gross domestic product increased by an annualized 10 percent,
while warning about the risk of a disorderly European debt
default.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index surged 3.1 percent, the
largest gain among its Asian peers, as it snapped a six-day, 7.2
percent slump. Taiwan’s Taiex added 1.7 percent and the BSE
India Sensitive Index climbed 0.4 percent.  Europe Shares Fall  Emerging-market stocks in Europe, the  Middle East  and
Africa were mostly weaker after the  European Central Bank  said
it will temporarily stop lending to some Greek banks to limit
its risk as President Mario Draghi signaled the ECB won’t
compromise on key principles to keep Greece in the euro area.
 Ukraine’s UX Index (UX)  of the country’s most liquid stocks slid as
much as 4.1 percent, making it the worst-performing gauge
worldwide.  Russia’s 30-stock Micex Index slid 1.8 percent, poised for
the lowest close since Oct. 6. Sberbank’s preferred shares fell
1.7 percent. The lender has the third-biggest weighting on the
index at 14 percent.  Polish  stocks  dropped 0.5 percent.  KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH) ,
the copper producer with the biggest European mine output,
climbed the most in a week as the metal rebounded and Societe
Generale SA upgraded the stock.  South Africa  South Africa’s  All Share (JALSH)  index declined 0.9 percent as
 Anglo American Plc (AGL) , the country’s biggest mining investor,
headed for its lowest close in more than eight months. Investec
Ltd., a banking group and  fund manager  with operations in  South
Africa ,  Australia  and the U.K., declined for a fourth day,
dropping 2.4 percent after the company reported a 41 percent
decline in full-year profit.  The Czech market retreated 0.1 percent. Turkish and
Hungarian stocks advanced.  China said it will allocate 26.5 billion  yuan  ($4.2
billion) in subsidies to promote the use of energy-saving
household appliances and products, replacing a consumption-
incentive program that ended last year. The nation will allocate
a further 6 billion yuan of subsidies for purchases of vehicles
with engines of less than 1.6 liters, it said.  Haier Electronics Group Co. (1169)  and other Chinese appliance
stocks rallied after the government said it will provide
subsidies to promote energy-saving appliances.  Tencent Holdings
Ltd. (700) , China’s biggest Internet company, rose the most in two
weeks after posting record profit.  Market Volatility  South Korea’s Kospi index rose 0.3 percent after the
country’s vice finance minister said it’s prepared to take
“prompt” action to stabilize markets should it be needed.  “We are very experienced in dealing with such market
volatilities,” Vice Finance Minister Shin Je Yoon told
reporters after an emergency meeting in  Seoul  on the situation
in Greece and Europe. “We’re ready with a comprehensive action
plan should the situation worsen.”  Korea Gas, the world’s biggest liquefied natural gas
importer, jumped 6.4 percent, the most since March 27. Eni SpA,
Italy’s largest oil company, said the Coral-1 exploration well
found as much as 10 trillion cubic feet of gas in the southern
part of Area 4 off Mozambique. Eni holds 70 percent of the
block, while  Korea Gas (036460)  has 10 percent.  The  Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index  of eastern European,
Middle East and Africa credit-default swaps declined 2 basis
points to 322, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over  U.S. Treasuries  fell basis basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 391, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global
Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net 
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  