-- Credit Suisse, BNP May Take YPF Stake on Loan Default
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-05-17T20:31:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/eskenazi-family-s-petersen-energia-defaults-on-ypf-loan.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  BNP Paribas
SA (BNP)  and two other banks may take over a stake in  YPF SA (YPF) ,
Argentina’s largest oil company, after shareholder Petersen
Energia SA defaulted on a loan.  The company owned by Argentina’s Eskenazi family was due to
make the payment of about $400 million yesterday, a Petersen
official who cannot be named under corporate policy, said today
in a telephone interview. The lenders, which also include
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Banco Itau BBA SA, haven’t claimed
the stake given as collateral, the official said.  The Eskenazis counted on YPF  dividends  of as much as 90
percent of profit to meet the obligations before the Argentine
government opposed the payments to shareholders last year and
seized control of the oil producer last month. President
 Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  ordered the takeover on April 16,
seizing a 51 percent stake from Spain’s  Repsol YPF SA. (REP)   YPF fell 1.6 percent to $12.97 in  New York  trading, after
plummeting as much as 8.4 percent earlier. Before today, it
slumped 63 percent this year.  The default entitles the banks to a 22 percent stake in
YPF, according to an April 17 Exane BNP Paribas report. The
other 3 percent of YPF shares held by Petersen would go to
Repsol if it defaults, Exane said. Petersen borrowed $1.7
billion from the Spanish company to buy YPF shares in 2008 and
2011 and about $1 billion from the four banks.  Warning Letter  Credit Suisse sent Petersen a letter on May 11 on behalf of
the four banks, warning the company that missing the payment
would entitle the lenders to take over the stake, the Petersen
official said.  David Walker, a Credit Suisse spokesman, declined to
comment on the letter and the default.  Michael DuVally , a
Goldman Sachs spokesman, also declined to comment.  The banks would have to hold on to the shares following a
Petersen default because there is no demand for them, Rafael Aldazabal, president of Buenos Aires-based brokerage Aldazabal &
Cia., said.  “There isn’t a market to sell these shares,” Aldazabal
said in a telephone interview today. “Not in New York or  Buenos
Aires .”  The Petersen payment due yesterday was the last installment
of the loan from the four banks. Credit Suisse lent $601
million, BNP $175 million, Itau $150 million and Goldman Sachs
$100 million, according to regulatory filings.  Other Loan  Petersen owes another $626 million to a group of banks for
the acquisition of 10 percent in YPF in 2011, according to the
filings. The banks are Credit Suisse, BNP Paribas, Itau, 
Standard Bank Group Ltd and Citigroup Inc.  Fernandez named Planning Minister Julio De Vido and Deputy
Economy Minister Axel Kicillof to oversee YPF management until
the shareholders name a new board. Fernandez also named Miguel Galuccio as YPF general manager.  The government has accused Repsol of underinvesting in
 Argentina  since its acquisition of YPF, which produces about 35
percent of the country’s crude. Repsol denied underinvesting and
on May 15 started legal action against Argentina and notified
officials of the South American country that it intends to file
a claim with the World Bank’s International Center for the
Settlement of Investment Disputes in Washington.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  