-- Estonia Won’t Cut Green Subsidies Retroactively, Minister Says
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2012-05-17T06:45:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/estonia-won-t-cut-green-subsidies-retroactively-minister-says.html
Estonia  will not lower subsidies to
renewable-energy producers retroactively unless it reaches an
agreement with investors, Environment Minister Keit Pentus said.  The ruling coalition partners have agreed that they cannot
force a retroactive change in subsidies, introduced in 2007, as
it would affect the “fragile” investment climate, Pentus told
lawmakers in a question-and-answer session yesterday, according
to a transcript on the parliament’s  website .  The subsidies would be cut by as much as half from next
year under a draft bill which is in the second of three
parliamentary readings. The plan was first revealed by Economy
Minister Juhan Parts in 2010 to lower costs for consumers, who
pay for the subsidies directly through their energy bills.  The move would violate  European Union law , the European
Renewable Energies Federation lobby group said in February,
urging Estonia to withdraw the plan.  The subsidies would drop by as much as 26 euros ($33) per
megawatt hour of electricity, according to Brussels-based  EREF 
lobby group. The planned retroactive changes would have a
“devastating impact” on renewable-energy producers and
represent a “flagrant violation” of EU rules, it said on Feb.
8.  “If the Economy Minister can negotiate with market
participants and reach a common understanding, and if the market
participants accept such a change, only in this case can it be
implemented,” Pentus said. “If such an agreement can’t be
made, then the state cannot enforce a retroactive change in the
rules. This just wouldn’t be appropriate for Estonia.”  The sharp increase in subsidies in 2007 led to new
investment by companies including  Fortum Oyj (FUM1V) , the second-largest
Nordic utility, and Nelja Energia OU, majority owned by  Norway ’s
Vardar AS.  Dalkia  Dalkia International, a subsidiary of  France ’s  Veolia
Environnement (VIE) , last December sold an 85 percent stake in a
biomass-fired cogeneration plant near the capital Tallinn to a
local company, citing a change in global strategy. Dalkia
purchased the 75 percent stake it didn’t already own in 2009 and
said the subsidies were essential for long-term investment plans
in September 2010, when Parts first announced his idea.  Pentus also said the Economy Ministry should scrap from
January green subsidy payments to co-generation units of state-
owned Eesti Energia AS where oil shale and biomass are used as
mixed fuel. This would reduce electricity bills by a “couple of
percent” and remove preferential treatment for fossil fuel, she
said. The Economy Ministry said last month the present plan
should continue next year.  Electricity from renewables made up 16 percent of Estonia’s
consumption in the first quarter, compared with 11 percent for
all of 2011, grid operator Elering AS said last month. The oil
shale-fired power units of Eesti Energia received 7.8 million
euros in renewable support in the first quarter, four times more
than a year earlier, and more than 40 percent of total subsidies
of 19 million euros, according to Elering data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  