-- Euro Strains Overshadow Obama Hosting G-8, NATO Meetings
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-05-17T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/euro-strains-overshadow-obama-hosting-g-8-nato-meetings.html
Europe ’s financial crisis and its
political fallout are shaping back-to-back international summits
hosted by President Barack Obama on the global economy and
military cooperation, including funding for postwar Afghanistan.  Leaders in the Group of Eight -- with the notable exception
of Russian President Vladimir Putin -- convene tomorrow and May
19 at Camp David, Maryland, near Washington. Then, most will fly
to Chicago, Obama’s hometown, for a North Atlantic Treaty
Organization meeting.  Both are venues for Obama, who is seeking re-election in
November, to show U.S. audiences he is playing a leadership role
on foreign policy. Still, Obama may have little say over how
allies address the euro region crisis, including proposals to
revive debt-ridden  Greece ’s economy at the same time its
political system is in turmoil over an austerity plan.  The G-8 “is a euro-crisis summit -- it will be dominated
by the crisis,” said  Heather Conley , director of the Europe
Program for the Center for Strategic and International Studies,
a Washington policy institute.  Before Camp David, Obama, will sit down privately at the
White House with France’s new President  Francois Hollande , who
may help Obama press Europe for more growth-focused policies and
may complicate Obama’s case for continued European commitments
in Afghanistan.  Hollande, who campaigned as a “normal” guy, defeated
incumbent Nicolas Sarkozy on May 6 in a campaign in which he
called for a balance between stimulus measures and austerity. He
also called for pulling French forces from  Afghanistan  a year
earlier than the U.S. was counting on.  Merkel Meeting  Hollande and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  met this week
before traveling to the U.S. and said they would consider
measures to promote economic growth in Greece if Greeks commit
to austerity requirements they are under in order to stay in the
euro.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said yesterday that
“we have been saying for some time now that growth has to be a
factor in Europe.”  Carney said while “we’re not prescribing actions” for
Europe, Obama favors “a balanced approach that includes
austerity, dealing with fiscal challenges as well as the need to
grow the economy.”  The G-8 discussions are expected to cover how to deal with
Greece’s fiscal and political crisis and bailout; African food
security programs; economic growth in the U.S.,  China  and  Japan ;
trade, energy and climate change; and collective approaches
toward regimes in Syria, Iran and North Korea.  Greek Elections  The G-8 includes the U.S.,  Canada , the U.K.,  Germany ,
 France ,  Italy , Japan and  Russia . The European Union also has two
seats. This is the first G-8 for Hollande, Italian Prime
Minister Mario Monti and Japan’s Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda .  Greece moved this week to call new elections for next
month, after political gridlock left the nation without a
government since inconclusive May 6 elections. The country is on
its second bailout from the European Union.  Putin, inaugurated earlier this month, is skipping the G-8,
sending Russian Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  in his place.
Putin is at odds with the U.S. on issues ranging from missile
defense to the approach toward Syria and Iran.  Fiscal woes also are casting a shadow over NATO funding.
The European alliance’s modernization is at risk as well as
commitments that individual countries will make to continue
training and assistance programs to Afghan forces after 2014,
when the Western-led alliance forces plan to depart.  Hollande’s Promise  Hollande’s approach to the NATO summit will determine
whether France remains aligned with the U.S. on “major
strategic issues,” such as Afghanistan, said R. Nicholas Burns,
former undersecretary of state for political affairs during the
George W. Bush administration, who co-authored an Atlantic 
Council report on the future of NATO.  Hollande may find himself under pressure from the U.S. and
other NATO allies not to pull French troops from Afghanistan by
the end of 2012, as he promised during the campaign.  France now has 3,308 troops in Afghanistan, according to
information provided by the International Security Assistance
Force on its website.  At the summit in  Chicago , NATO leaders are to review plans
to give full responsibility for security to Afghan forces by the
end of 2014, and also discuss and define the future role of the
alliance and its partners in that country.  Withdrawal From Afghanistan  Financing the stand-alone Afghan force has taken on greater
urgency as Western allies head for the exit after more than a
decade of warfare, the longest combat operation in NATO’s
history.  Afghan soldiers and police officers totaled about 337,000
in mid-March and are scheduled to reach 352,000 this year. The
coalition has agreed with Afghan leaders to begin paring the
force after 2014 to about 230,000.  Maintaining those numbers of Afghan security forces would
cost about $4 billion, with the U.S. seeking $1.3 billion from
allies and with the Afghanistan government contributing about
$500 million annually, Assistant Secretary of State Philip Gordon told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on May 10.  Over the past month, since defense and foreign ministers
met at NATO headquarters in Brussels in preparation for the
summit, several countries have announced financial pledges for
Afghan security forces, including Britain with 70 million pounds
($112 million) and Germany with $190 million a year.  In the past year, NATO nations have begun reducing their
military budgets, including the U.S. which is slated to cut $487
billion over the next ten years, said Burns, who is a board 
director at the Atlantic Council and a professor at Harvard 
University.  The U.S. military may face another $500 billion in cuts if
Congress and the White House do not agree by the end of this
year on other ways to reduce the  budget deficit .  “The cohesion of the Atlantic community is under strain
from economic crisis, political paralysis and the emergence of
new global powers in  Asia ,” Burns said in the Atlantic
Council’s report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in  Washington  at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  