-- Europe Development Bank Holds First Competitive Leadership Vote
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-05-17T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/europe-development-bank-holds-first-competitive-leadership-vote.html
The European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development, which invests as much as 11 billion euros ($14
billion) a year in nations from Russia to  Egypt , holds the first
competitive leadership vote in its two-decade history this week.  President  Thomas Mirow , 59, who’s running for a second
four-year term, faces challengers from the U.K., France, Poland
and  Serbia  in the May 18 ballot among the London-based bank’s
shareholders. The European Union, which has chosen all five
heads to date, failed to back a single candidate. Pitching for
the role will begin today.  The EBRD has invested 71 billion euros since it was created
in 1991 to support the transition of eastern  Europe ’s former
communist nations to market-driven democracy. The bank has led
efforts to avert a banking-industry collapse in the region,
which was hardest hit by the global financial crisis that
followed Lehman Brothers Holding Inc.’s 2008 bankruptcy.  The U.K. has nominated Suma Chakrabarti, permanent
secretary at the Justice Ministry and formerly at the  Department
for International Development . The other candidates are France’s
Philippe de Fontaine Vive Curtaz, vice president at the European
Investment Bank, ex-Polish Prime Minister Jan-Krzysztof Bielecki
and Bozidar Djelic, a former deputy premier of Serbia.  EU officials couldn’t agree on a candidate for the EBRD at
a May 14 meeting in Brussels as France’s presidential election
delayed bargaining over European posts including chairman of the
group of euro-region finance ministers, a position currently
held by Luxembourg’s Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker.  The 27 EU members carry the weighted-majority of votes
among the EBRD’s 65 shareholders.  The bank is expanding its geographical scope to new
democracies in the southern and eastern Mediterranean, with
Tunisia, Egypt, Morocco and  Jordan  in line to become recipients.
Resources allocated to that region may reach as much as 2.5
billion euros a year this decade, the bank has said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  