-- European Stocks Drop as ECB Pauses Greek Bank Lending
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-05-17T16:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/european-stock-index-futures-rise-as-fed-signals-easing.html
European stocks  declined for a fourth
day as the region’s central bank paused lending to some Greek
banks and speculation mounted that Spanish banks may have their
credit ratings cut at Moody’s Investors Service.  Bankia SA (BKIA)  sank 14 percent after a report that depositors
withdrew 1 billion euros ($1.27 billion) in the past week.
 Cookson Group Plc (CKSN)  rose the most in six weeks after saying it’s
considering a separation of its main divisions.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  dropped 1.1 percent to 241.63 at
the close of trading, for the longest losing streak since March
22, even as the  Federal Reserve  signaled further monetary easing
remains an option if the  U.S. economy  worsens. The gauge has
retreated to the lowest level since Dec. 28 on mounting concern
that  Greece  will leave the euro area.  “If Greece falls, we’ve got big trouble in Europe and
nobody knows what will happen then with  Spain , with  Italy , with
 Portugal ,” said Andreas Lipkow, an equity trader at MWB
Fairtrade Wertpapierhandelsbank AG in  Frankfurt . “Then it
doesn’t really matter if the Fed pumps more money into the
market and tries to push up the U.S. economy because the trouble
in  Europe  will overshadow everything.”  The  European Central Bank  said it will temporarily stop
lending to some Greek banks to limit its risk. President Mario Draghi signaled the ECB won’t compromise on key principles to
keep Greece in the euro area.  Spanish Banks  Moody’s Investors Service is set to downgrade the credit
ratings of Spanish banks later today, said two people with
knowledge of the situation, who asked not to be identified
because the decision hasn’t been announced.  The nation sold the maximum amount of notes targeted at a
bond auction today as borrowing costs rose and 10-year bond
yields approached levels that drove Greece and Portugal into
bailouts.  National benchmark indexes declined in all 10 western
European markets open today. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 (UKX) ,  Germany ’s DAX
and France’s CAC 40 all dropped 1.2 percent. Greece’s ASE lost
3.4 percent to the lowest level since January 1990. Exchanges in
Switzerland, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Austria,
Luxembourg and Iceland were closed for the Ascension holiday.  In the U.S., a Labor Department report showed  first-time
claims  for  unemployment insurance  were unchanged at 370,000 in
the week ended May 12. The median forecast of 48 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for a drop in claims to 365,000.  U.S. Economy  A separate report showed manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region unexpectedly shrank in May for the first time in eight
months, reflecting a drop in orders and employment.  Several members of the  Federal Open Market Committee  said
new actions may be necessary if the economy loses momentum or
“downside risks to the forecast became great enough,”
according to minutes of the FOMC’s April meeting released
yesterday in  Washington .  Spanish lender Bankia tumbled 14 percent to 1.42 euros. The
stock has dropped for 10 consecutive days, losing 42 percent. El
Mundo reported that customers have withdrawn 1 billion euros
since May 9, when the government said it will take over the
bank.  Separately, Spanish newspaper ABC reported that Ildefonso
Sanchez, Bankia’s finance director, and Miguel Angel Soria, a
head of its internal audit department, will leave.  Bankinter SA (BKT)  fell 4.4 percent to 2.96 euros, declining for
a fifth day.  Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP)  retreated 4.6 percent to
1.91 euros.  Espirito Santo  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES)  dropped 9.4 percent to 48.2 euro
cents, the lowest since at least April 1993. A gauge of banking
shares was the second-worst performer of the  19 industry groups 
in the Stoxx 600.  Investec Plc slipped 3.4 percent to 317.5 pence. The owner
of a bank and money manager in  South Africa  and the U.K. said
full-year profit dropped 41 percent after costs rose and trading
income slumped.  Vedanta Resources Plc, an aluminum and copper producer in
 India , declined 4 percent to 985 pence, a four-month low. The
company said fiscal full-year profit plunged 92 percent on
higher financing costs, largely for the loan it arranged to
acquire oil producer Cairn India Ltd.  TNT Express NV fell 3 percent to 8.72 euros, its lowest
price in three months.  PostNL NV (PNL) , which owns a 30 percent stake
in TNT, dropped 6.2 percent to 2.73 euros.  SBM Offshore  SBM Offshore NV (SBMO) , the world’s biggest supplier of floating
oil and gas platforms, fell 5 percent to 11.79. The stock was
cut to underweight, the equivalent of sell, from equal weight at
Barclays.  Aviva Plc (AV/)  slid 4.7 percent to 267.7 pence after the U.K.’s
second-biggest insurer by market value reported a 7 percent
decline in first-quarter sales of life insurance and pensions to
6.52 billion pounds ($10.4 billion). That missed some analysts’
estimates.  Kesa Electricals Plc (KESA)  plunged 14 percent to 46.76 pence, its
lowest price since at least July 2003, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The owner of the Darty electronics chain,
said French revenue slumped in the final quarter of the fiscal
year as consumers bought fewer televisions after a switchover to
digital reception last year.  Cookson jumped 5.5 percent to 679 pence, the biggest
increase since April 2. The world’s biggest maker of ceramic
linings for metal smelters said it has started a strategic
review and may split its main divisions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  