-- Euro Touches 4-Month Low as Schaeuble Says Crisis to Last
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-05-18T21:25:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/euro-touches-4-month-low-after-fitch-downgrades-greece.html
The euro touched a four-month low and
fell for a third straight week against the dollar as German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Europe’s financial-
market turmoil may last another two years.  The 17-nation currency reversed its losses today as a
technical indicator signaled its recent decline came too fast.
The dollar and yen posted weekly gains against most of their
major counterparts as investors sought safer assets. The euro
declined for a fourth week versus the yen as a meeting of Group
of Eight nations’ leaders began.  “The financials in European countries have been hammered,
and that has put more pressure on the situation, but it feels a
little bit exhausted,” said  Fabian Eliasson , head of U.S.
currency sales at Mizuho Financial Group Inc. in New York. “You
can see that the commodity currencies are down, with both the
Aussie and the kiwi being sold off. Normally that happens when
things are getting more defensive and people are taking risk off
the table.”  The euro slid as much as 0.4 percent to $1.2642, the
weakest since Jan. 16, before rising 0.7 percent to $1.2780 at 5
p.m. in  New York . It declined 1.1 percent this week. The shared
currency rose 0.3 percent to 100.98 yen, trimming its drop this
week to 2.2 percent, the most since the period ended April 6.  The  yen  rose against the dollar, erasing an earlier loss,
and reached 79.00, the strongest level since Feb. 17. A short is
a bet the price of an asset will fall, while a long is a bet it
will rise.  ‘Yen Exposure’  “The market is slowly, almost reluctantly, being forced to
build some long yen exposure,” said  Alan Ruskin , global head of
Group-of-10 foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in New
York. “The positioning that’s clear-cut in the short-term
players is euro short and dollar longs. With the yen, they’ve
been forced to cut their short positions and have slowly been
building long positions.”  Hedge funds  and other large speculators increased their
bets on a weaker euro to 173,869 in the week ended May 15, the
highest since the common currency’s inception in 1999, according
to Commodity Futures Trading Commission data. Futures traders
decreased the number of short  yen  positions to 34,315 from
41,093.  The Australian and New Zealand dollars tumbled against the
greenback and yen. The Aussie fell 0.6 percent to 98.25 U.S.
cents and touched 97.95, the lowest level since Nov. 28. It fell
0.9 percent to 77.68 yen. The kiwi dropped 1.2 percent to 75.43
U.S. cents and 1.5 percent to 59.62 yen.  Europe’s Crisis  Europe being in crisis has become “practically normal,”
Schaeuble said in a recorded interview broadcast today on
France’s  Europe  1 radio. Even so, “in 12 to 24 months we’ll see
a calming of financial markets,” he said.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and fellow European leaders
will face pressure from their G-8 counterparts to do more to
quell the turmoil after speculation  Greece  will exit the euro
wiped almost $4 trillion from global stock markets this month.  Fitch Ratings  lowered Greece’s ranking to CCC from B-,
saying the strong showing of “anti-austerity” parties in
elections on May 6 and subsequent failure to form a government
underscored the lack of public and political support for the
country’s bailout from the European Union and  International
Monetary Fund .  Moody’s Investors Service yesterday lowered the credit
ratings of  Spain ’s biggest banks including  Banco Santander SA (SAN) 
and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, citing economic weakness
and the government’s mounting budget strain.  ‘Contagion to Spain’  French President  Francois Hollande  said today Spanish banks
should be recapitalized with Europe’s aid, contradicting
European Union Economic and Monetary Commissioner  Olli Rehn , who
said the country can do that on its own.  “Greece is in trouble and that is pushing the euro
lower,” said  Geoff Kendrick , head of European currency strategy
at Nomura International Plc in  London . “The real issue is
contagion to Spain. The markets can probably start to stabilize
sometime soon, there is a lot of bad news priced in and we are
near a lot of key technical levels in euro-dollar.”  The 14-day relative strength index for the euro against the
dollar fell to 21 yesterday, the lowest since October 2008,
before rising to 31.4. It was below the “oversold” 30 level on
every day this week before today.  ‘Short the Euro’  “Everyone seems to be short the euro here -- it’s a very
popular trade -- so it is vulnerable to a pop to shake out the
week’s shorts,” said Boris Schlossberg, director of research at
online currency trader GFT Forex in New York.  The euro has dropped 5 percent in the past year, the
second-worst performance among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes
after the Swedish krona. The yen is the best performer,
strengthening 9 percent, and dollar gained 6.8 percent.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, fell 0.4 percent to 81.084 after rising on the
previous 14 days, the longest such streak since its inception in
1973.  The Dollar Index’s “rally phase” is here to stay,
according to Niall O’Connor, a technical analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in New York.  “There is still little evidence of a reversal,” O’Connor
wrote in a note to clients today. The gauge must fall below the
key support level of 80-80.33 to reassert the short-term
downward bias, he said. Support refers to an area where buy
orders may be clustered.  Loonie Falls  Canada’s dollar declined after earlier posting its first
advance of this week versus its U.S. counterpart as consumer
price inflation rose 2 percent in April from a year ago,
compared with a 1.9 percent gain the prior month, according to
 Statistics Canada .  The loonie, as the currency is known, declined 0.3 percent
to C$1.0222 per  U.S. dollar , extending its decline this week to
2 percent.  The yen has risen versus all of its 16 major counterparts
this week as a report from the  Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia  yesterday showed its  general economic index 
unexpectedly fell to the lowest since September.  “The global market remains nervous,” said Kikuko Takeda,
a senior currency economist at Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.
in London. “We can’t buy the euro, and if the U.S. economic
outlook is uncertain, yen will be bought.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  