-- Even $3 Trillion Can’t Buy China Love or Good PR
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-05-17T21:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/even-3-trillion-can-t-buy-china-love-or-good-pr.html
China ’s $3.3 trillion of currency
reserves are a nice thing to have when you want to polish your
image. Even if money can’t buy you love, it sure can buy lots of
positive buzz.  The most-populous nation has been throwing tens of billions
of dollars at its prestige deficit for a decade, all part of an
effort to enhance China’s soft power, something of which the
U.S., for all its crises, has a surplus. Why else would Chinese
dissidents head to U.S. shores, or embassies, for shelter? Why
do so many wealthy Chinese, and government reserve managers, see
the dollar and the U.S. legal system as a  haven ?  The priciest public-relations expenditure was the 2008
Beijing Olympics, which by some estimates cost $40 billion. The
country has financed roads in  Brazil , bridges in Zambia, power
grids in  Cambodia  and mining rigs in Uzbekistan. It established
Confucius Institutes for Chinese language and culture on 75 U.S.
college campuses. It started CCTV America to raise its profile.  The charm offensive served the Chinese brand well for a
while. Its timing was perfect. China skillfully exploited
America’s distractions and travails after the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks. When Europe hit a debt wall 10 years later, it turned
to Beijing for help, not  Washington . When  Wall Street  needed
capital injections at the height of the financial crisis, it
knocked on China’s door.  Squandered Soft Power  So it’s perplexing, then, to watch China squander much of
the soft power it accrued at great expense over many years in
just a few months. The rate at which China is blowing an
absolute fortune invested in prestige-enhancement makes  Jamie Dimon ’s $2 billion loss at JPMorgan Chase & Co. look trivial.
And it’s all a bad omen for China bulls betting on smooth, 10
percent annual growth rates in the years ahead.  The world is used to Chinese bubbles. Only, the latest one
isn’t in stocks, real estate or rare-earth metals, but bad
headlines: the Bo Xilai scandal, the diplomatic gymnastics over
 Chen Guangcheng , propaganda attacks on U.S. Ambassador  Gary Locke , tossing out  Al Jazeera ’s lone Beijing correspondent and
bullying the  Philippines  over a cluster of rocks in the ocean.  China can’t seem to help itself. The reverberations reach
the highest levels of government, reflecting a deficit of
confidence in Chinese leadership. What a contrast to a few years
ago when China’s elites seemed to foster certainty and
stability. Now China is realizing that money can’t buy soft
power; acting responsibly, rationally and civilly does.  There’s an air of desperation in many of the unforced
errors China is making. It’s a clear sign that China isn’t
comfortable with all the attention and scrutiny accompanying its
ascent on the global stage. It’s also a stark reminder that the
evolution of  China’s economy  has raced far ahead of its opaque
political system.  The Chen story is a bit of a sideshow. It’s great that the
blind activist may receive a passport this month that would
allow him to leave for the U.S. It’s probably where China wants
him anyway.  Deeper, more meaningful insights can be gleaned from the Bo
case. It’s by far the biggest and most-telling political scandal
the Communist Party has endured in decades.  The Bo imbroglio gets at everything China doesn’t want
foreigners chewing over, such as the obscene wealth of
politicians and the bumps that seem to be accompanying this
year’s leadership change. All of it suggests that Beijing is
struggling with its role in the spotlight when the world
expected it to act like a mature and savvy power.  Reporters’ Troubles  Many recent events suggest otherwise. Take the case of
Melissa Chan, who had reported from China since 2007 for Al
Jazeera English. China refused to renew her visa. It’s widely
suspected the denial was retaliation for the network’s stories
on secret jails and forced abortions. Will journalists have to
engage in self-censorship to avoid deportation? Getting
journalist visas, meanwhile, has become quite the ordeal for
those eager to do actual reporting on the world’s fastest-
growing major  economy .  Rising tensions in the  South China Sea  are also telling.
Philippine  stocks  are gyrating daily on reports of naval
exercises and a war of words over a group of rocks known as the
Scarborough Shoal. Imagine how China will respond to more
critical territorial disputes with  Japan ,  South Korea  and
 Taiwan . And China wonders why its Asian neighbors seek to
balance its influence by cozying up to the U.S.  These aren’t the actions of a confident, secure power. Nor
are China’s increasingly obsessive efforts to control
cyberspace. Here, the timing of Facebook Inc.’s initial public
offering is a fascinating cultural footnote. Although Facebook’s
IPO may well be a technological watershed, China has decided to
exclude itself. The biggest social-network site, run by the
Mandarin-studying  Mark Zuckerberg , isn’t in the biggest Internet
market. Why? Because Facebook is something China can’t control.  That’s what this is all about: internal control, something
China’s elites obsess over in normal times and are freaking out
about as the country undergoes a once-in-a-decade leadership
change. This is made even messier by the hunger to control the
world’s perceptions of China’s rise.  What the Communist Party doesn’t understand is that for the
country to accrue soft power it should close the checkbook. Then
it needs to treat its people and its neighbors with respect, and
let all the world look on as it does.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in  Tokyo  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 