-- Hewlett-Packard Said to Consider Cutting Up to 25,000 Jobs
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-05-17T23:47:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/hewlett-packard-said-to-consider-cutting-as-many-as-25-000-jobs.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  is considering
cutting as many as 25,000 jobs, or 8 percent of its workforce,
to reduce costs and help the company contend with ebbing demand
for computers and services, people briefed on the plans said.  The number to be cut includes 10,000 to 15,000 from
Hewlett-Packard’s enterprise services group, which sells a range
of information-technology services and has been beset by
 declining profitability , said these people, who asked not to be
identified because the plans aren’t final and may change.  Meg Whitman , chief executive officer since September, is
seeking to reverse the growth slump that led to the ouster of
her predecessor,  Leo Apotheker . The company’s PC sales are
dropping as consumers favor tablets, such as Apple Inc.’s iPad,
and it has been slow to adapt to the shift toward cloud
computing, away from the IT services Hewlett-Packard provides.  “Hewlett-Packard could make the difficult decision of
announcing” a  workforce reduction ,  Brian Marshall , an analyst
at ISI Group, wrote in a research note earlier this month. This
“would enable investments in strategic, higher growth areas.”  Eliminating 18,000 jobs could result in savings of about
$1.2 billion and add 50 cents to annual per-share earnings, he
estimated.  Michael Thacker, a spokesman for  Palo Alto , California-
based Hewlett-Packard, declined to comment.  Shares of Hewlett-Packard rose to as high as $22.27 after
Bloomberg reported the changes, and gained 3 cents to $22.06 the
close in  New York . The  stock  has dropped 14 percent this year.  Early Retirement Offers  Some of the cuts to Hewlett-Packard’s workforce of  324,600 
may come through early-retirement packages, the people said.
Hewlett-Packard may offer early retirement to several thousand
people, the people said.  The overall reduction and additional cost savings
throughout the company could result in savings that reach
billions of dollars, one person said.  Hewlett-Packard, the world’s largest maker of personal
computers and printers, is working with management consulting
firm McKinsey & Co. to draw up the job-cuts plan.  Whitman, former CEO of EBay Inc., said in March that she’ll
combine the PC and printing divisions, ending deliberations to
spin off the PC unit. She has also said she’ll step up
investment in research and development and take steps to shore
up Hewlett-Packard’s balance sheet.  Besides tussling with Apple, Hewlett-Packard is also vying
with companies including International Business Machines Corp.,
Oracle Corp. and Cisco Systems Inc. in the market for hardware,
software and services for large corporations.  More Declines Predicted  Hewlett-Packard in February forecast sales for the quarter
through April that fell short of analysts’ predictions. Sales in
the current year may decline 4 percent to $122.4 billion,
according to average analyst  predictions  compiled by Bloomberg.  The enterprise services group includes the 2008 acquisition
of Electronic Data Systems for $13.9 billion made by former CEO
 Mark Hurd .  Hurd, who was CEO from 2005 to 2010, reduced costs through
actions including a 5 percent pay cut for most employees in
2009, lower research spending and plans to eliminate at least
48,000 jobs.  Hewlett-Packard is  scheduled  to report fiscal second-
quarter earnings on May 23.  Hewlett-Packard plans “significant” layoffs and seeks to
cut its workforce by 10 percent to 15 percent, Business Insider
 reported  yesterday, citing an unidentified person.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  