-- Mexico GDP Grows Most Since 2010 on Exports as U.S. Recovers
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-05-17T14:43:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/mexico-gdp-growth-accelerates-as-u-s-recovery-gathers-pace-1-.html
Mexico ’s economy grew at the fastest
pace in more than a year in the first quarter as U.S. demand
picked up, the latest sign that the nation is surpassing Brazil
after trailing Latin America’s biggest economy for most of the
past decade.  Gross domestic product expanded 4.6 percent from the year-
earlier period, up from a revised 3.9 percent in the previous
three months and the most since the third quarter of 2010, the
national statistics office said on its website today. The median
forecast of 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for growth of
4.5 percent. From the previous three months, the economy grew
1.3 percent.  Mexico’s expansion exceeded Brazil’s last year as domestic
consumption and exports picked up on the heels of a U.S.
recovery. The lowest inflation rate in  Latin America  and a
benchmark  interest rate  that has remained at a record low for 34
months are helping improve the outlook for growth in the
region’s second-largest economy, said Italo Lombardi, an
economist at Standard Chartered Bank.  “Brazil is growing less than Mexico, while it used to be
the other way around,” Lombardi said. “Mexico is becoming more
diversified than before since we’ve seen a more solid
performance of internal demand.”  Mexico’s central bank yesterday raised its growth forecast
for this year to between 3.25 percent and 4.25 percent from 3
percent to 4 percent. Brazil’s economy will expand 3.2 percent
this year, according to economists surveyed by the central bank.  Leading Growth  Mexico’s agriculture industry led first-quarter growth,
expanding 6.8 percent from a year earlier, the most since at
least 2008. Manufacturing industries grew 5.5 percent and
services expanded 5 percent.  Manufacturing exports are growing at a “very accelerated”
pace, bank Governor Agustin Carstens told reporters yesterday.  Exports rose 3.4 percent to a record $32.4 billion in March
from a year ago, with the  trade surplus  reaching $1.6 billion,
the  highest  monthly figure since at least 1985. In Brazil,
exports peaked at $26.1 billion in August, before falling to
$20.9 billion in March as a slowdown in  China , Asia’s biggest
economy, damped demand for its raw materials.  Mexico’s growth is driven by expansion in the U.S., which
accounts for 80 percent of exports from its southern neighbor.  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a 2.2 percent annual rate in
the first quarter as  consumer spending , which accounts for about
70 percent of the economy, contributed 2 percentage points to
growth, the most since the final three months of 2010.  Car Industry  Mexico is poised to become the fourth-largest global
exporter of automobiles this year, President  Felipe Calderon 
said on May 14. It currently ranks fifth.  Among the biggest investors in Mexico’s car industry are
Detroit-based General Motors Co. and Dearborn, Michigan-based
Ford Motor Co.  “The Mexican economy is highly dependent on what happens
in economic terms in the U.S.,” said Alfredo Coutino, Latin
America director at Moody’s Analytics. “If the U.S. recovery
continues to advance, that’s going to be positive for the
Mexican economy.”  U.S. housing starts and industrial production exceeded
analyst forecasts in April. Starts rose 2.6 percent to a 717,000
annual rate from March’s 699,000 pace, Commerce Department
figures showed yesterday. Industrial production climbed 1.1
percent, the most since December 2010, the  Federal Reserve  said.  Mexico’s economy grew 3.9 percent last year, compared with
expansion of 2.7 percent in  Brazil , where GDP is twice the size.  Consumer Confidence  As exports pick up,  consumer confidence  soared to a four-
year high in Mexico in April, while economic growth accelerated
to 6.24 percent in February. Growth eased to 3.6 percent in
March, the statistics institute reported today.  The approach of July’s presidential election has failed to
damp consumer sentiment.  Mexico’s presidential race on July 1 is unlikely to derail
the economic stability of the country and should be neutral for
the country’s creditworthiness in the near term,  Fitch Ratings 
said in a May 15 report.  The peso this year has avoided the declines that preceded
Mexico’s last two presidential votes. In 2012 to date, the peso
has gained 1 percent, the fourth-best performance against the
dollar among the 16 most-traded currencies.  The peso plunged in the first half of 2006 on concern
 Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador , who said he would renegotiate the
North American Free Trade Agreement with the U.S. and  Canada ,
would win the presidency.  In 2000, concern the ruling  Institutional Revolutionary
Party , or PRI, would contest a victory by Vicente Fox, whose
election ended 71 years of single-party rule, helped push the
peso down 3.3 percent.  Credit Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years with credit default swaps was 11 basis points less
than that for Brazil on May 9, the biggest gap since April 20,
2010, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Yields on Mexico’s peso bonds dropped to the lowest in a
week today following the economic growth report. The yield on
local-currency bonds due in December 2014 fell three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 4.79 percent at 8:50 a.m.
in Mexico City, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The peso depreciated 0.1 percent to 13.7766 per dollar
today.  While Mexico’s economic growth accelerates, inflation
remains under control. Consumer prices rose 3.41 percent in
April from the year earlier, compared with 5.1 percent in
Brazil.  Subdued inflation has enabled the central bank to keep its
key rate on hold since July 2009.  “The outlook on inflation in Mexico is pretty steady,
pretty stable, pretty predictable.” said  Enrique Alvarez , an
emerging-market analyst at IdeaGlobal in  New York . “You get a
more favorable outlook and panorama in Mexico. In Brazil you
don’t.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
 Eric Martin  in  Washington  at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 