-- Mexico Growth Probably Accelerated as U.S. Recovery Gathers Pace
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-05-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/mexico-growth-probably-accelerated-as-u-s-recovery-gathers-pace.html
Mexico ’s economic expansion probably
accelerated in the first quarter as demand from the U.S. picked
up, the latest sign that it is surpassing Brazil after trailing
Latin America’s biggest economy for most of the past decade.  Gross domestic product expanded 1 percent from the previous
three months, when the economy grew 0.42 percent, according to
the median estimate of 10 economists in a Bloomberg survey.
Analysts expect year-on-year growth to accelerate to 4.5 percent
from 3.7 percent. The national statistics institute will release
the figures at 9 a.m. today in Mexico City.  Mexico’s growth exceeded Brazil’s in the last three
quarters of 2011 as domestic consumption and exports picked up
on the heels of a strengthening U.S. recovery. The lowest
inflation rate in Latin America and a benchmark  interest rate 
that has remained at a record low for 34 months are helping
improve the outlook for growth in the region’s second-largest
economy, said Italo Lombardi, an economist at Standard Chartered
Bank.  “Brazil is growing less than Mexico, while it used to be
the other way around,” Lombardi said. “Mexico is becoming more
diversified than before since we’ve seen a more solid
performance of internal demand.”  Mexico’s central bank yesterday raised its growth forecast
for this year to between 3.25 percent and 4.25 percent from 3
percent to 4 percent. Brazil’s economy will expand 3.2 percent
this year, according to economists surveyed by the central bank.  Manufacturing Strength  Mexican manufacturing exports are growing at a “very
accelerated” pace, bank Governor Agustin Carstens told
reporters yesterday.  Exports rose 3.4 percent to a record $32.4 billion in March
from a year ago, with the  trade surplus  reaching $1.6 billion,
the  highest  monthly figure since at least 1985. In Brazil,
exports peaked at $26.1 billion in August, before falling to
$20.9 billion in March as a slowdown in  China ,  Asia ’s biggest
economy, damped demand for its raw materials.  Mexico’s economy grew 3.9 percent last year, compared with
expansion of 2.7 percent in Brazil, where GDP is twice the size.  As exports pick up,  consumer confidence  soared to a four-
year high in Mexico in April, while economic growth accelerated
to 6.24 percent in February, beating the 5.5 percent median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  Sentiment  Additionally, the approach of July’s presidential election
has failed to damp consumer sentiment.  Mexico’s presidential race on July 1 is unlikely to derail
the economic stability of the country and should be neutral for
the country’s creditworthiness in the near term,  Fitch Ratings 
said in a May 15 report.  The peso plunged in the first half of 2006 on concern
Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, who said he would renegotiate the
North American Free Trade Agreement with the U.S. and  Canada ,
would win the presidency.  In 2000, concern the ruling  Institutional Revolutionary
Party , or PRI, would contest a victory by Vicente Fox, whose
election ended 71 years of single-party rule, helped push the
peso down 3.3 percent.  In 2012 to date, the peso has gained 1.3 percent, the
fourth-best performance against the dollar among the 16 most-
traded currencies.  Mexico is poised to become the fourth-largest global
exporter of automobiles this year, President  Felipe Calderon 
said on May 14. It currently ranks fifth.  Among the biggest investors in Mexico’s car industry are
Detroit-based General Motors Co. and Dearborn, Michigan-based
Ford Motor Co.  Competition  The country’s success has created tensions with Brazil,
which has pressured Mexico to cut car exports by as much as 30
percent for the next three years to reverse a surge in shipments
to  Latin America ’s largest economy.  The cost of protecting Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years with credit default swaps was 11 basis points less
than that for Brazil on May 9, the biggest gap since April 20,
2010, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Mexico’s growth is driven by expansion in the U.S., which
accounts for 80 percent of exports from its southern neighbor.  U.S. housing starts and industrial production exceeded
analyst forecasts in April. Starts rose 2.6 percent to a 717,000
annual rate from March’s 699,000 pace, Commerce Department
figures showed yesterday. Industrial production climbed 1.1
percent, the most since December 2010, the  Federal Reserve  said.  While Mexico’s economic growth accelerates, inflation
remains under control. Consumer prices rose 3.41 percent in
April from the year earlier, compared with 5.1 percent in
 Brazil .  Subdued inflation has enabled the central bank to keep its
key rate on hold since July 2009, while Brazil raised or lowered
its benchmark rate 15 times over the same period.  “The outlook on inflation in Mexico is pretty steady,
pretty stable, pretty predictable.” said  Enrique Alvarez , an
emerging-market analyst at IdeaGlobal in  New York . “You get a
more favorable outlook and panorama in Mexico. In Brazil you
don’t.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 