-- Facebook IPO Makes Zuckerberg Richer Than Google Founders
-- B y   D a v i d   D e   J o n g   a n d   D e v o n   P e n d l e t o n
-- 2012-05-18T16:35:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/facebook-ipo-makes-zuckerberg-richer-than-google-founders.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s $16 billion initial
public offering has made 28-year-old  Mark Zuckerberg  the 29th
richest person on Earth.  Facebook, the world’s most popular social networking
company, sold 421.2 million shares for $38 each. At that price,
the 503.6 million shares and options Zuckerberg owns are valued
at $19.1 billion, making him wealthier than  Google Inc. (GOOG)  co-
founders  Sergey Brin  and  Larry Page , according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index .  “Zuckerberg doesn’t think about his wealth,”  David Kirkpatrick , author of “The Facebook Effect,” a history of the
company, said in an interview on May 17. “This is a huge
success for everybody. There’s no way it can be seen
otherwise.”  Facebook’s chief executive officer started the  Menlo Park ,
California-based company for Harvard University classmates as a
19-year-old in his dorm room. It now has more than 900 million
monthly users and generated $3.7 billion in revenue in 2011.  Zuckerberg sold 30.2 million shares for $1.15 billion
during the offering. Most of the proceeds will be used to pay
the taxes associated with exercising 60 million  stock options .  Facebook’s $104.2 billion valuation crystallizes the
fortunes of the company’s three other co-founders. Dustin
Moskovitz, 27, who roomed with Zuckerberg at Harvard, is now
worth $5.1 billion. He owns 133.7 million shares of the
company’s Class B stock, and will sell 7.5 million shares if the
underwriters exercise their option to buy additional stock.  Trio of Co-Founders  Moskovitz, the company’s first chief technology officer,
left the social network with  Facebook  colleague Justin Rosenstein in 2008. The duo founded Asana Inc., a task
management software company. The company received $9 million in
funding from venture capital firms Andreessen Horowitz and
Benchmark Capital in 2009, both of Menlo Park.  Eduardo Saverin, 30, has a $2.7 billion estimated fortune.
He owned about 4 percent of the company’s outstanding shares
prior to the offering, according to whoownsfacebook.com, which
is published by Massinvestor Inc. and draws its information from
Facebook’s filings with the SEC, press releases, news reports
and other publicly available sources.  The Brazil-born Facebook co-founder renounced his U.S.
citizenship last year and is now a permanent resident of
Singapore. Saverin’s move could save him $67 million in federal
taxes, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Saverin declined to discuss his stake in a telephone
interview from his home in  Singapore .  “I am obligated to and will pay hundreds of millions of
dollars in taxes to the United States government,” he said in
May 17 statement.  New Republic  Co-founder Christopher Hughes, 28, owns about 22 million
shares of Facebook, according to a person familiar with his
holdings who asked not to be named because the matter is
private. At $38 per share, his stake is worth $836 million.  Hughes, who bought the Washington, D.C.-based magazine the
New Republic in March 2012 for less than $5 million, has more
than $100 million in cash and real estate after selling some of
his Facebook hoard, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Facebook shares would need to rise 7.9 percent to $41 for
Hughes’s fortune to crest 10 figures.  Peter Thiel  provided Facebook’s first outside investment:
$500,000 in 2004. Today, he has a net worth of $2.7 billion. The
Founders Fund Management LLC partner sold 16.8 million shares
during the offering and owns almost 28 million shares of
Facebook following the deal, according to regulatory filings.  Thiel, Parker  Thiel, who co-founded PayPal Inc., owns his Facebook shares
through holding companies such as Rivendell One LLC and Lembas
LLC. He also owns stakes in Palantir Technologies Inc., which
makes data processing software, and Valar Ventures Management
LLC, a venture fund that invests in  New Zealand  and Australian
companies. The name of each of those entities was inspired by
the writings of  J.R.R. Tolkien.  Thiel was brought to Facebook by technology entrepreneur
 Sean Parker , who met Zuckerberg at a Manhattan restaurant in
2004. He persuaded Zuckerberg to move to California to focus on
the company full time. The 32-year-old Parker has a $2.8 billion
net worth, and will sell 10 million shares if the underwriters
exercise their option to purchase additional shares.  Zuckerberg hired Parker, who had co-founded the Napster
Inc. file sharing service with Shawn Fanning in 1999, as its
first president. Parker left Facebook in 2005, after police
found cocaine at a North Carolina beach house where Parker was
hosting friends on vacation. No charges were filed.  For his early role in Facebook, Parker was given almost 70
million shares. He sold 3.65 million shares in the secondary
market prior to the company’s IPO.  Sandberg Scores  The offering made Facebook’s chief operating officer Sheryl
Sandberg a billionaire. Sandberg, 42, who was lured from Google
in 2008, owns 27 million shares, including 25 million restricted
stock units that have vested. She also owns more than 14 million
unvested units that aren’t counted in her net worth calculation.  At the offering price, her vested stake in the company is
worth $1 billion. Sandberg also owns small stakes in  Starbucks
Corp. (SBUX)  and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ; she is a director at both companies.  Facebook’s offering further elevated  Mark Pincus , the
founder of  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , the world’s largest social gaming
company, in the billionaire ranks. Pincus, 46, owns 13 percent
of Zynga, whose popular online games such as Mafia Wars and
Farmville generated more than 10 percent of Facebook’s sales in
2011. Zynga shares are down more than 40 percent since March.  Pincus owns 4.3 million shares of Facebook. With his Zynga
stock, he is worth $1.3 billion. He sold 1 million Facebook
shares during the offering, earning him $38 million.  Russian Billionaires  Alisher Usmanov , Russia’s richest man, has an estimated 80
percent interest in the 85.6 million Facebook shares held by
certain DST Global funds. The DST Global entities are controlled
by billionaire Yuri Milner. The funds sold 45.7 million shares
in the offering and may sell more in the coming months,
according to regulatory filings.  Milner owns about 12.5 percent of DST Global’s Facebook
shares and has a net worth of $1.1 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. DST Global funds also owns stakes in
Zynga, Groupon Inc. and Twitter Inc.  Usmanov -- whose most valuable asset is his 50 percent
stake in Metalloinvest, Russia’s largest iron ore producer --has
never met Zuckerberg.  Facebook, which makes 85 percent of its revenue from
advertising, is valued at 25.8 times trailing 12-month sales,
more than double Google’s valuation when the search engine
debuted in 2004.  The company will begin trading on the Nasdaq today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David De Jong in  New York  at 
 ddejong3@bloomberg.net ;
Devon Pendleton in New York at 
 dpendleton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  