-- Facebook Poses Biggest Test of Rule Curbing Market Orders
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-05-17T21:20:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/facebook-poses-biggest-test-of-rule-curbing-market-orders.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s initial public
offering will be the biggest test of a rule introduced in 2011
to protect investors and curb volatility on the first day a
company trades.  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority  reminded  more
than 4,400 member firms on May 15 that they shouldn’t accept buy
requests known as market orders until trading begins. Such
transactions are authorizations to purchase at the best
available price, as opposed to limit orders that require
investors to specify a minimum or maximum.  Facebook sold shares in a deal valuing the firm at $104.2
billion, the most ever for an IPO. Finra’s notice about market
orders follows malfunctions that disrupted the debuts of Bats
Global Markets Inc. in March and  Splunk Inc. (SPLK)  in April, and comes
as Facebook’s listing venue, Nasdaq Stock Market, conducts tests
of its computers and customers’ systems before the IPO auction.  “Since the visibility and the size of the float is so
significantly larger than Bats and Splunk, there probably won’t
be an issue as size and demand will help neutralize any
distribution and market-making problems,”  Larry Tabb , chief
executive officer of Tabb Group LLC, said in an e-mail. “While
the chance of a problem is very small, if there is a problem it
will have huge ramifications, not just reflecting poorly on
Nasdaq but on U.S. exchanges, the U.S. capital formation process
and basically the functioning of the U.S. markets.”  Volatility Curbs  The Finra rule follows curbs and new trading requirements
implemented by exchanges and regulators after the so-called
flash crash on May 6, 2010, when the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  plunged 9.2 percent before recovering. In addition to
introducing circuit breakers, which pause trading in stocks and
exchanged-traded funds when prices move 10 percent in five
minutes, market makers must quote within a certain  price range .
New rules were also implemented to guide exchanges’ decisions
about when to void errant transactions.  Facebook, which sold 421.2 million shares, may see trading
volume of about 1 billion tomorrow, based on first-day activity
at companies such as Google Inc., LinkedIn Corp.,  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  and
Yelp Inc., Tabb said. Daily  trading  of U.S. stocks has averaged
6.78 billion in 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Finra ban on market orders before trading begins was
instituted because shares are more volatile when there’s no
“established public trading history,” the organization said.  Zillow IPO  The rule is “intended to protect investors from unintended
consequences of market orders due to the potential volatility of
a new issue in the secondary market,” John Markle, deputy
general counsel for regulatory operations at online broker  TD
Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD) , said in an e-mail.  The prohibition went into effect in September, two months
after  Zillow Inc. (Z) ’s debut, in which the company  ranged  between
$32.50 and $60 on its first day. Underwriters for the Seattle-
based provider of real-estate data sold stock for $20 on July
19. The next day, it opened at $60, dropped to $50 within six
seconds, and ended at $35.77, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Given the absence of an established trading market, the
potential exists for a wide variance between the public offering
price of a new issue and the price at which trading on the
secondary market commences,” Finra said on May 15. “As a
result, investors who place market orders for an IPO may find
their orders filled at prices beyond their reasonable
expectations, and such transactions may further contribute to
the unconstrained increase in the price of a new issue in the
secondary market.”  Market Orders  Market orders, or instructions to buy shares at the lowest
available price at that moment, are different from limit orders,
which impose a ceiling set by the investor on the level at which
shares can be bought and a floor for sales. While  Nasdaq  can
accept various types of orders, brokers can’t accept market
requests before trading begins.  A broker may send a proprietary market order to buy for its
own account directly to an exchange before trading commences,
Finra said. If it routes the same market order to another broker
it must be rejected, the organization said.  A committee set up by the NYSE and NASD, the predecessor of
Finra,  recommended  in 2003 that market orders should be
prohibited on a company’s entire first day of trading. It said
this would prevent purchases of an IPO’s shares at prices that
reflect neither customers’ “true investment decisions nor their
reasonable expectations.” The current prohibition on market
orders prior to the commencement of trading won  approval 
instead.  Bats IPO  A problem related to the IPO auction process on Bats Global
Markets for its own shares led the Lenexa, Kansas-based exchange
operator to withdraw its offering on March 23. The stock opened
at $15.25 and subsequently traded at less than 1 cent.  Transactions in Splunk, a software maker that helps
companies analyze Web data, triggered a volatility circuit
breaker on April 19 in the first second of trading after opening
at $32. NYSE Arca, an exchange owned by  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , later
canceled the  trades  at $17 that led to the halt and those it
executed during the required five-minute pause.  NYSE Arca said today in an e-mailed notice that it won’t
run an auction to match buy and sell orders in Facebook at the
start of trading tomorrow. The exchange will accept orders once
Nasdaq prints the first transaction.  Caesars Entertainment  Trades in Caesars Entertainment Corp., a casino company,
also halted shares on the first day of trading on Feb. 8 after
the stock rose 50 percent minutes after the IPO auction. The
circuit breakers on individual securities temporarily halt
trading across all 13 equity exchanges and other markets.
Regulators and exchanges are working to modify the curbs to
limit price moves without immediately halting trades.  Mark Turner , head of U.S. sales trading at New York-based
Instinet Inc., which accounts for almost 5 percent of daily U.S.
equities volume, said he’d be surprised if circuit breakers
don’t halt trading in Facebook shares more than once tomorrow.  “Given the interest in the stock, I think it’s likely to
be very volatile,” Turner said in a phone interview. “There
are likely to be a lot of players, a lot of retail flow,
institutional flow, and price discovery right around when it
opens will be quite frantic.” He said he supports the
application of circuit breakers to a company’s first day of
trading to “calm the market” when prices move rapidly.  ‘Animal Spirits’  Peter Jankovskis , who helps manage about $2.9 billion at
Oakbrook Investments in Lisle,  Illinois , said that while he
doesn’t think Facebook will trigger a circuit breaker, he’s glad
the curbs are in place. He said he doesn’t plan to purchase
Facebook shares.  “For something like an IPO that doesn’t have a long
trading history and is probably subject more to animal spirits
than the trading of a seasoned issue, circuit breakers are
probably a good thing,” he said in a phone interview. “It
would probably frustrate me, but on the other hand it’s probably
better than having an order coming in several dollars higher
than I would’ve expected.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  