-- Facebook Stalls in Public Debut After Record $16B in IPO
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-05-18T22:55:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/facebook-raises-16-billion-in-biggest-technology-ipo-on-record.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  hovered near the
initial public offering price in its trading debut, following a
record IPO that made the social network more costly than almost
every company in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. (SPX)   The shares rose 23 cents above the IPO price of $38 as of 4
p.m. in  New York . Facebook sold 421.2 million shares to raise
$16 billion yesterday, giving the company a $104.2 billion
market value.  Underwriters bought Facebook’s  stock  to keep it from
falling below the IPO price, people with knowledge of the matter
said today. The offering valued the company at 107 times
trailing 12-month earnings, more than every  S&P 500  member
except Amazon.com Inc. and Equity Residential. The performance
disappointed some investors who expected a first-day pop.  “They squeezed the lemon dry here,” said  Dan Veru , chief
investment officer at Palisade Capital Management, who didn’t
participate in the IPO. “They didn’t leave enough on the table.
You want to price these things a little lower, so that the
shares have better support in the aftermarket.”  The bankers supported the stock after Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.
faced difficulties delivering trade execution messages following
the IPO, said one of the people, who asked not to be identified
because the transactions are private.  Facebook  spokesman
Jonathan Thaw declined to comment.  100 Times Earnings  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said that it
will review the incident to figure out its cause and any steps
needed to address it.  The IPO price made Facebook, co-founded in 2004 by a then-
teenage  Mark Zuckerberg , the largest company to go public in the
U.S. While Facebook has evolved from a Harvard University dorm-
room project into a social network with more than 900 million
users,  revenue growth  is poised to slow for a third straight
year and advertising sales haven’t kept pace with user
additions.  “This is what happens when you price something around 100
times earnings,” said  Barry Ritholtz , chief executive officer
at FusionIQ in New York. “If this closes poorly, there is
nobody to blame but the company and the underwriters
themselves.”  Facebook priced at the top end of its range of $34 to $38 a
share, valuing it at about 26 times sales in the 12 months
through March 31. As of yesterday, that was more than twice as
much as  AvalonBay Communities Inc. (AVB) , currently the most costly
company by that measure in the S&P 500.  GM’s Offering  Facebook shares opened at $42.05 today and initially surged
as high as $45 before paring gains.  At $16 billion, Facebook’s sale surpassed that of General
Motors Co., making it the second-largest in U.S. history,
excluding so-called over-allotments, which let underwriters buy
more shares at a later date, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  GM raised $15.8 billion in November 2010, before expanding
the sale to $18.1 billion when underwriters exercised the over-
allotment option. Visa Inc. raised $17.9 billion in its 2008
IPO, the biggest in the U.S., and later expanded the sale to
$19.7 billion. Facebook’s underwriters may buy an additional
63.2 million shares at the IPO price, which would enlarge the
IPO to as much as $18.4 billion.  Facebook’s offering price gave it a market capitalization
almost double the $60 billion United Parcel Service Inc.,
previously the biggest company to complete an IPO, was valued at
when it went public in 1999, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg and Dealogic.  IPO Performance  Facebook stock is listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market under
the symbol FB. The social network, led by 28-year-old CEO
Zuckerberg, is the first company to complete a U.S. IPO in a
week, after vacuum-pump maker Edwards Group Ltd. raised $100
million on May 10.  The 67 companies that completed U.S. IPOs this year before
Facebook gained an average of 7.2 percent in public trading
through yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Before
today, six of the 10 best-performing newly listed U.S. stocks
this year had been Internet or technology companies, led by
Guidewire Software Inc., the provider of software to the
 insurance industry  that gained 95 percent.  Facebook’s IPO coincided with intensifying U.S. market
turmoil. About  $1 trillion  had been erased from American equity
values this month after speculation  Greece  will leave the euro
region reversed the biggest first-quarter rally since 1998,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  $176 Million  Facebook’s bankers, led by  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc., may split about $176 million
for managing the IPO after accepting a lower-than-average fee
for their work. Facebook hired more than 30 underwriters, which
also included Bank of America Corp., Barclays Plc, Allen & Co.,
Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG, and Deutsche Bank AG.  They’ll get about 1.1 percent of what Facebook raised, said
two people with knowledge of the matter, who declined to be
identified because the rate is private.  The IPO price gave Facebook a market value about half the
size of  Google Inc. (GOOG) , which was worth more than $200 billion as
of yesterday. The search-engine operator’s value has jumped
almost ninefold in the eight years since it went public. To hand
its public owners the same returns after pricing at the top of
its offering range, Facebook would have to be worth about $920
billion by 2020. Apple Inc., the most valuable company in the
world, had a market value of about $496 billion as of yesterday.  Eclipsing Google  Facebook’s offering eclipsed the 2004 IPO of Google, one of
its chief competitors for online advertising. Google raised $1.9
billion in its initial share sale, including an over-allotment
option. The shares sold at $85 apiece, giving Google a market
value of about $23 billion, or about 10 times sales in the 12
months through June 30, 2004.  Facebook boosted the deal’s size amid a two-week series of
meetings where Zuckerberg, Chief Operating Officer Sheryl
Sandberg and Chief Financial Officer David Ebersman pitched the
sale to investors across the U.S.  “There’s hundreds of millions of people that want to
emotionally buy this stock and most of them are going to have to
buy it in the aftermarket,” Jon Merriman, chief executive
officer at investment firm Merriman Holdings Inc. in  San
Francisco , said before the stock began trading. “I’d like to
see it season over a couple of months.”  Investors’ Plans  Venture capital firm  Accel Partners , based in  Palo Alto ,
 California , planned to offer 49 million shares in the initial
sale, while Goldman Sachs aimed to sell 28.7 million, according
to terms Facebook disclosed this week. Digital Sky Technologies
planned to sell 45.7 million shares, and Tiger Global Management
planned to sell 23.4 million shares.  Facebook executives and directors planned to sell 189.4
million shares. Including restricted stock units, options and
common stock to be issued following the purchase of Instagram,
the shares outstanding would total 2.74 billion.  Some institutional  investors  had balked at buying into
Facebook over concern about the site’s growth prospects, people
with knowledge of the matter said last week. The social network
generated sales of $3.7 billion last year, which are poised to
rise 64 percent to $6.1 billion in 2012, according to researcher
EMarketer Inc. Last month, Facebook said first-quarter  profit 
fell to $205 million as sales growth slowed and marketing costs
more than doubled.  Mobile Prospects  Facebook is trying to adapt as more users access its site
via mobile phones instead of the Web. That put pressure on
company executives to articulate their mobile strategy as they
marketed the stock to potential investors ahead of the IPO.
Facebook has said it would add mobile advertising along with new
ads to reach users when they log off the company’s website.  Facebook still faces hurdles in traditional Web
advertising.  General Motors (GM) , the world’s biggest automaker by
vehicles sold, said this week it was halting display ads on
Facebook, while maintaining brand-promotion pages.  “It worries me about the pressures that will be on
Facebook to create this new stream of revenue,” John Chachas,
managing partner at Methuselah Capital Advisors LP, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television. “A lot of what you do on
Facebook is hanging out. That does not lend itself to the
monetization question.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  