-- Facebook’s $16 Billion IPO Spurs Warrants for Share Bets
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2012-05-17T12:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/facebook-s-16-billion-ipo-spurs-warrants-for-share-price-bets.html
Structured products betting on the
future stock price of  Facebook Inc. (FB)  are being sold by banks as
the social network raises as much as $16 billion in the largest
initial public offering by a technology company.  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ,  UBS AG (UBSN) , Commerzbank AG,  Julius Baer
Group Ltd. (BAER)  and Bank Vontobel AG have this month either listed or
announced plans for 180 warrants and more than 125 certificates
linked to Menlo Park,  California-based Facebook , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “As the Facebook story is so hot all over the world we
expect clients to immediately go into the stock through
derivatives after the IPO,” said Markus Jakubowski, vice
president in derivatives sales at Societe Generale in Frankfurt.
The French bank plans to list around 35 warrants and
certificates in  Germany  with a variety of strike prices, the
level at which the securities profit or not, he said.  Facebook boosted the offering’s price range to as much as
$38 a share this week, indicating a market value as high as $104
billion. Existing holders will offer 241.2 million shares,
bringing the total on offer to 421.2 million, with  Accel
Partners , the biggest seller in the IPO, raising the amount it’s
selling by 28 percent, while Goldman Sachs Group Inc. more than
doubled its shares on offer.  Broker Warrants  Broker Lang & Schwarz Tradecenter AG listed six warrants
linked to Facebook shares on the Scoach Europe structured
products exchange in Frankfurt yesterday. The securities
represent an option to buy or sell a certain number of shares at
a specific price before a given date.  Carsten Luetke-Bornefeld, head of trading at the
Dusseldorf-based firm, said he expects strong demand from local
investors.  Lang & Schwarz listed two “put” warrants that expire in
either September or December and profit if Facebook’s shares are
below $60, as well as four “call” products offering gains if
the shares rise above $60 and $70. A warrant maturing in
September, which will be profitable if Facebook shares climb
above $70, cost 34 euro cents ($0.43) yesterday.  Los Angeles-based Wedbush Securities, the first firm to
rate Facebook after it announced plans to sell shares, set a 12-
month price target of $44 for the company on May 5.  EFG Financial Products AG, a Zurich-based structured
products distributor, said after the offering it will add
Facebook shares to a basket of 10 social media companies that
are tracked by a certificate that has traded on Scoach in Zurich
since last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  