-- Facebook’s Saverin to Pay Hundreds of Millions in Tax
-- B y   S h e r i d a n   P r a s s o ,   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n   a n d   J e s s e   D r u c k e r
-- 2012-05-18T08:42:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/facebook-co-founder-turns-30-000-savings-to-3-billion.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  co-founder Eduardo
Saverin, who became a billionaire through the social network’s
initial public offering, said he’ll pay “hundreds of millions
of dollars” in taxes to the U.S. government.  Singapore-based Saverin, who was born in  Brazil  and moved
to the U.S. as a child, used his life savings of $30,000 to fund
 Mark Zuckerberg ’s plan for a social-networking site. Facebook
was valued at $104.2 billion and Saverin’s stake may be worth
$2.89 billion.  Saverin renounced his U.S. citizenship last year, a move
that could reduce his tax bill by at least $67 million,
according to an analysis by Bloomberg. U.S. Senator  Charles Schumer  proposed legislation yesterday that would impose a
 capital gains  tax on people who renounce their citizenship
unless they prove their reasons don’t include avoiding taxes.  “My decision to expatriate was based solely on my interest
in working and living in Singapore, where I have been since
2009,” Saverin said in a statement relayed by e-mail. “I am
obligated to and will pay hundreds of millions of dollars in
taxes to the  United States  government.”  The meaning of Saverin’s statement was unclear: Under U.S.
tax law, he already owed income taxes as a result of dropping
his passport. Bloomberg estimated his bill to be about $365
million triggered by the move.  ‘Personal Choice’  Americans who give up their citizenship owe an exit tax on
the estimated capital gains from their stock holdings at the
time of the renunciation. Yet by dropping his U.S. citizenship
eight months before the company went public, Saverin’s tax
advisers could have argued that his stake was worth much less,
thus cutting his tax bill.  Saverin owns about 4 percent of the company before the IPO,
according to  whoownsfacebook.com . That would make his stake
worth as much as $2.89 billion today. In September his
investment was worth closer to $2.44 billion based on the price
of Facebook shares traded that month in private auctions on
SharesPost Inc.  “I did not think once about my position related to tax
savings,” Saverin said by phone from his home in  Singapore . He
declined to comment on how much tax he would save. “The whole
idea that that was important to me or part of my consideration
is not accurate.”  The tax bill triggered by his move can be deferred
indefinitely until he sells the shares. A larger benefit is
likely from any future appreciation in Facebook stock, since
Singapore has no capital gains tax.  Negative Consequences  Former U.S. citizens can face negative consequences if they
acknowledge dropping their passports to avoid federal income
taxes, said David S. Miller, a tax attorney at Cadwalader,
Wickersham & Taft LLP in New York.  A 1996 law known as the Reed Amendment states that if the
Attorney General determines that a U.S. citizen renounced
citizenship for the purpose of avoiding tax, the former citizen
may be barred from returning to the U.S., according to Miller.  “If Saverin had acknowledged that he had expatriated for
tax purposes, he could be barred from ever returning to the
United States under current law,” Miller said.  Schumer’s proposal would empower the Internal Revenue
Service to impose capital gains tax at a higher rate of 30
percent on future investment gains of wealthy individuals who
the agency decides renounced their citizenship to avoid taxes.
It also would bar such people from re-entering the U.S. Schumer
said he will advance the legislation as quickly as possible.  “Eduardo Saverin wants to de-friend the  United States of
America  just to avoid paying taxes,” Schumer, a  New York 
Democrat, told reporters. “We aren’t going to let him get away
with it.”  Singapore Appeal  “It is unfortunate that my personal choice has led to a
public debate, based not on the facts, but entirely on
speculation and misinformation,” Saverin said in the statement.  Saverin said he relocated to Singapore in 2009 because it’s
an easy place to live, people speak English and it’s a travel
hub at the heart of rapidly growing  Asia . The  World Bank  ranks
Singapore as the easiest place in the world to do business.  Renouncing U.S. citizenship was about “simplicity of focus
so that my time and efforts can be spent on what matters to
me,” he said, including investing in new early-stage technology
startups, like Facebook, that emphasize people.  Banking Hassles  New U.S. tax rules will complicate banking for Americans
overseas. Banks will be required to report income and interest
paid to the account holders of U.S. origin to the U.S.  Internal
Revenue Service . The rules, scheduled to go into effect in 2013,
have prompted many banks to turn away business from Americans.  “If I chose to open a bank account locally in Singapore,
most of the banks would not accept me in having a fully
functional bank account,” he said.  Saverin, who declined to discuss his percentage or its
valuation, said he never believed his $30,000 investment would
go so far. Facebook shares will begin trading today under the
symbol FB on the  Nasdaq  Stock Market.  “Something I would’ve never imagined was when I put all my
life savings into the company, that it would have been an IPO at
this level,” Saverin said. “You never imagine that $30,000
accumulated through your life, through gifts and birthday
parties and other events, and investing it in the company would
create this type of returns.”  Zuckerberg, Prince Alwaleed  Zuckerberg is worth more than $20 billion, giving him a
fortune comparable to those of Saudi  Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal 
and Amazon.com Inc. founder  Jeff Bezos , according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index . Google Inc. co-founder  Sergey Brin 
is worth about $19.1 billion.  When the opening bell rings on the Nasdaq, Saverin will be
celebrating at home with “some very close friends” and
speaking on the phone with his parents and two siblings who
still live in Miami, he said.  Saverin said he has no plans to speak to Zuckerberg. While
the two are not regularly in touch, he admires his co-founder.  “I’m very proud of how he’s been able to keep the focus
and push the company to this level,” he said. “It’s incredible
what he’s done.”  In Singapore, Saverin has invested in mobile applications
developer  Anideo Pte , run by his friend Andrew Solimine with
whom Saverin said he first traveled to the Asian nation, and in
 Maiplay Pte , a developer of an application that helps users
collect loyalty points on a mobile device. Saverin’s U.S.
holdings include shares in Jumio Inc., an online payments
company, and  ShopSavvy Inc. , a price-comparison service.  Being an “extremely shy, private” person is also a
consideration, Saverin said. Singapore has little paparazzi
culture. Private nightclubs such as Mink and Filter, which
Saverin occasionally visits, cater to the wealthy in a city that
has built itself into a center for private banking.  No Playboy  Singapore is Asia’s largest wealth-management center, with
$512 billion in offshore assets in 2010, data compiled by the
Boston Consulting Group show.  Saverin fits the image of a billionaire playboy “in no way
whatsoever,” he said. “I am 30, and I’m not married. I go out
with my friends as a normal person would.”  “We do hang out here and there,” Phillip Poon, co-founder
of Mink and Filter, said in an interview. “He’s pretty much
like any normal guy, hanging out with his friends. The press
seems to mention that he’s partying non-stop, but he’s actively
involved in work.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sheridan Prasso in  Hong Kong  at 
 sprasso@bloomberg.net ;
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Drucker in New York at 
 jdrucker4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  