-- FDIC Watchdog Asked to Take Over Troubled SEC Office
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-05-17T16:23:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/fdic-watchdog-asked-to-take-over-troubled-sec-office.html
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
inspector general Jon Rymer is in final discussions to
temporarily take over the Securities and Exchange Commission’s
internal watchdog office as it grapples with allegations of
possible misconduct by its own employees, according to people
with knowledge of the talks.  Rymer would take over the post on an interim basis as the
SEC looks to fill the inspector general job that was left vacant
when H.  David Kotz  stepped down in January, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the decision hasn’t been made
public. The move isn’t yet final, the people said.  The office has been in turmoil since David Weber, an
employee of the internal watchdog unit, complained to the SEC
that possible conflicts of interest related to Kotz’s past
conduct could have tainted the integrity of his reports on the
agency’s failure to catch the  Bernard Madoff  and R. Allen Stanford frauds. The agency said it is hiring an independent
investigator to review the claims.  Weber was later placed on administrative leave after some
of his co-workers said they were bothered by his suggestions
that he and others should be able to carry guns on the job,
people with direct knowledge of the situation said.  Last week, SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  scrapped a plan to
have Donald Hoerl, head of the SEC’s Denver office, temporarily
run the office after some Capitol Hill staff members expressed
concern that Hoerl wouldn’t be independent enough from the
commission, the people said. Noelle Maloney, the deputy
inspector general, has been the acting head of the unit since
Kotz’s departure.  Audit Committee  Rymer, a certified internal auditor who previously worked
at accounting firm KPMG LLP, has been inspector general of the
FDIC since July 2006. He also serves as chair of the audit
committee of the Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity
and Efficiency, according to the FDIC’s website. Rymer holds
degrees from the University of  Tennessee  and the  University of
Arkansas  and also graduated from the U.S. Army’s Inspector
General School. He has served for 29 years in the Army,
including active and reserve duty.  Fred Gibson, the FDIC’s deputy inspector general, said
Rymer wasn’t immediately available for comment. SEC spokesman
 John Nester  declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  