-- Fed to Study How Banks Manage Cash After JPMorgan Loss
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-05-17T21:25:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/fed-said-to-study-how-banks-manage-deposits-after-jpmorgan-loss.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s $2 billion
trading loss has prompted the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
to examine how banks in its district are managing cash after
receiving a flood of deposits since the credit crisis, according
to a person familiar with the matter.  New York-based JPMorgan’s trading loss, announced last
week, occurred in its chief investment office, which oversees
about $360 billion, the difference between deposits and what the
bank lends. The New York Fed is reviewing the structure of
investment units and similar businesses at other banks it
regulates, said the person, who wasn’t authorized to discuss the
matter publicly and declined to be identified.  Banks are struggling to manage an influx of deposits as
investors take advantage of a bigger federal guarantee and the
perceived safety of the largest banks. In 2008, President  George W. Bush  signed a bill that temporarily increased deposit-
insurance coverage to $250,000 per depositor from $100,000. The
Dodd-Frank Act overhauling financial regulation, which President
 Barack Obama  signed in 2010, made the increase permanent.  “There’s not enough loan volume to drive earnings-per-
share and to successfully reinvest all the liquidity,” said
 David Hendler , senior analyst at research firm CreditSights Inc.
in New York. “So, in a way, it forced them to do this, and the
trade got away from them,” he said, referring to JPMorgan.  Bank Portfolios  Total deposits at institutions insured by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. rose to about $10.2 trillion at the end
of last year from $8.2 trillion in the third quarter of 2007. In
the same period, total loans fell to $7.5 trillion from $7.7
trillion. Securities in bank portfolios rose to $2.9 trillion
from $2 trillion, according to FDIC data.  Still, there are “other ways to deal with” the gap
between loans and deposits, “and you don’t have to just take it
in,” Hendler said. “You could create an opportunity cost for
the depositor to go to some other bank.”  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. last year said it would
charge institutional clients a fee for unusually high deposits
as a flight to safety pushed money-market rates below zero and
left the custody bank flooded with client cash.  New York Fed spokeswoman Andrea Priest declined to comment.  JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said on a
conference call with analysts on May 10 after announcing the
loss that all banks have “these fairly large portfolios” that
invest excess cash. Dimon had encouraged the unit to boost
earnings by buying higher-yielding assets, including structured
credit, equities and derivatives, ex-employees said in April.  ‘100 Years’  “I should point out to all the folks on the phone, you
could see -- you can go to the 10-Q and see what people have in
those portfolios,” Dimon said on the call, referring to
quarterly report filings. “And some banks do some things, and
some do others. But to invest those excess deposits, you buy
securities. That’s been going on for 100 years in banking.”  Scott Siefers, a managing director at Sandler O’Neill
Partners, a New York investment bank and brokerage firm that
specializes in financial companies, said treasury management is
usually a “mundane task” inside most banks.  “Investors and regulators don’t like to see banks using a
securities portfolio as a major earnings driver,” he said.
“There is a knee-jerk reaction that says the bank might be
taking on some undue risk.”  Under Pressure  Still, banks are also under pressure to keep net interest
margins high, Siefers said. Treasury managers are feeling the
pressure to boost risk and earn returns because loan growth is
tepid. At the same time, they are trying to avoid getting caught
if  interest rates  head higher sometime in the next few years, he
said.  Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo  has overhauled the
Fed’s supervisory approach from a bank-focused examination
process to a broader systemic view that compares practices at
several institutions at once. The main forum for such reviews is
the Large Institution Supervision Coordinating Committee, or
LISCC, which includes top supervisors from the Fed’s regional
banks and also economists, financial-markets experts and
computer modelers from the Fed Board.  “We have supplemented the traditional, firm-by-firm
approach to supervision with a routine use of horizontal, or
cross-firm, reviews to monitor industry practices, common
trading and funding strategies, balance-sheet developments,
interconnectedness, and other factors with implications for
systemic risk,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a speech
last month in Stone Mountain,  Georgia .  Capital Buffers  Federal Reserve Board spokeswoman  Barbara Hagenbaugh 
declined to comment. She said earlier this week that the central
bank, as JPMorgan’s holding-company supervisor, is studying
organizational issues around the trading loss to ensure that
they aren’t repeated in other areas of the bank. The loss
underscores the importance of capital buffers, she said.  The Office of Comptroller of the Currency said this week it
is examining JPMorgan’s activities and its transactions
following the $2 billion loss.  “Our examiners are also evaluating risk management
strategies and practices in place at other large banks to
validate our understanding of inherent risk levels and controls
of these risks,” said OCC spokesman  Bryan Hubbard . The OCC
oversees national banks, including JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A.  Dimon announced his bank’s “egregious” trading loss on
May 10, two months after the biggest  U.S. bank  by assets passed
a Fed stress test that put its loans and securities through a
scenario of deep recession and a simulated global financial
market shock. The bank’s flawed positions on synthetic credit
holdings could result in an additional $1 billion loss or more
as they’re wound down, Dimon said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  