-- Feel for Heel Allowed Women to Do Boardroom Deal
-- B y   R a c h e l l e   B e r g s t e i n
-- 2012-05-17T23:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/feel-for-heel-allowed-women-to-do-boardroom-deal.html
Before Manolo Blahnik was a famous
shoemaker, he was an imaginative boy growing up in the  Canary
Islands  with a chic mother who inspired his nascent love of art.
In the early 1970s, after studying literature and architecture
in Geneva, he put on his best red-and-white gingham suit and
approached Vogue editor Diana Vreeland to show her his work.  Among sketches for the set of a production of “A Midsummer
Night’s Dream,” Blahnik included playful drawings of fashion
accessories. After appraising his work, Vreeland offered her
verdict:  “I think you should concentrate on shoes,” she told him.  Blahnik listened, found a job designing footwear for a
London boutique and, by 1972, landed his first major commission
to create the runway shoes for English designer Ossie Clark’s
spring-summer collection. Blahnik drew seasonally inspired two-
tone green high-heeled sandals with ankle ties that crisscrossed
up the calf and dripped with red plastic cherries, and a pair of
electric blue open-toed pumps with red straps and 7-inch rubber
heels.  The young shoemaker found the then-popular chunky platforms
awkward and oppressive and favored shoes that made a woman’s
foot look delicate. Unfortunately, on the catwalk, his springy
heels buckled and Clark’s models couldn’t make it to the end.
Blahnik understood that his technical expertise did not yet live
up to his creative abilities, so he left  London  for Northampton
-- the center of English shoemaking -- to study craftsmanship.  Blahnik’s Ascent  It wasn’t long before he rebounded. In 1974, the handsome
designer appeared on the cover of British Vogue. The next year,
he created the delicate gold sandals Bianca Jagger wore on her 30th
birthday, riding a white horse into Studio 54. And by 1979 he
opened a boutique in the U.S.  Blahnik’s shoes appealed to elegant women willing and able
to pay top dollar for quality. He became familiar to the
powerful women who ascended the corporate ladder in the 1970s
and ’80s, women willing to invest in heels that communicated
their authority. The new power pumps weren’t sexless, but they
weren’t provocative either: Women in the workplace kept their
toes covered and stuck to simple materials like matte leather
with few embellishments. Shiny satin and buckles, studs and bows
were for evening only.  Heel height was crucial, not too high or too low. Female
executives wanted to be taken seriously without compromising
their femininity. Heels also leveled the playing field, enabling
women to stand eye to eye with their male colleagues.  In his 1975 book “Dress for Success,” style consultant John T.
Molloy popularized the idea of “power dressing”: choosing clothes
to communicate authority. For women, he recommended tailored
suits in neutral or dark colors; clean, mid-length haircuts;
minimal cosmetics (lipstick and a light coating of mascara); and
simple, closed-toe pumps with inch-and-a-half heels. For both
men and women, he was decidedly anti-fashion, and he came down
particularly hard on women’s shoes, calling the towering
platform “the most preposterous thing manufactured for a woman
since the chastity belt.”  By the late 1970s and early ’80s, a more modern style of
footwear -- the sneaker -- challenged even the corporate power
pump for attention. Sneaker technology and design advanced far
beyond the days when a few panels of canvas were stitched to a
rubber sole. Now women could buy compact, high-performance
“athletic shoes” that matched a new aggressiveness in American
life.  Birth of Nike  In 1972, William Bowerman, the University of Oregon track
coach, and his former star runner  Phil Knight  unveiled a new line of
Nike footwear. Named for the Greek goddess of victory, these
shoes were designed specifically for runners. An art student at
Portland State University contributed the swoosh, and a
phenomenon was born.  Eventually, Nike patented “Air,” which used lightweight
foam materials and trapped pockets of pressurized gas for
increased mobility and comfort. Suddenly, even nonathletes who
cared little about a shoe’s performance found that for comfort,
athletic shoes couldn’t be beaten.  The sneakers’ popularity spiked in early 1980, after
employees of  New York  City’s Transport Workers Union walked off
their jobs, leaving subways and buses idle for 11 days, and
commuters were forced to get to work by foot. Many women who
were accustomed to riding to work in heels chose to walk in
sneakers, tucking their pumps in their briefcases -- and they
continued to do so when the transit system was up and running
again.  There remained that class of women who wore spike heels,
unconcerned with the vicissitudes of travel or weather, because
a ride was always just a phone call or an arm gesture away.
Their shoes communicated that they could afford pedicures, foot
massages and apartments in neighborhoods where safety wasn’t a
concern. But sports shoes were the greater emblem of the era.  In 1981, when singer Olivia Newton-John released her single
“Physical,” she may have been dressed like an aerobics queen,
but there was no mistaking what she was singing about: “There’s
nothing left to talk about / unless it’s horizontally . . .”
Suddenly a woman could be as assertive as a man. Money was the
engine of the 1980s, and women had some of their own.  Reebok , a British athletic-shoe company transplanted to
 Massachusetts , proclaimed, “Life is not a spectator sport.” And
boy, did women listen.  (Rachelle Bergstein is a writer and editor in New York.
This is the last of five excerpts from her new book, “ Women From
the Ankle Down: The Story of Shoes and How They Define Us ,”
which will be published on May 29 by HarperCollins. The opinions
expressed are her own. Read  Part 1 ,  Part 2 ,  Part 3 ,  Part 4 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  job polarization  and
 ways to save Syria ; William Pesek on  China’s declining soft
power ; Andrew Razeghi on  jump-starting startups ; Vali Nasr on
 Europe and Iran ;  Mark Taylor  on  competing colleges ; Ted Gayer
and Phillip Swagel on  mortgage-principal deductions .  To contact the writer of this article:
Rachelle Bergstein at  rachellebergstein@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  