-- First India Shale Gas Seen in 4 Years, China Output Nears
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-05-17T10:40:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/first-india-shale-gas-seen-in-4-years-china-output-nears.html
Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC)  of India and
competitors may drill for at least four years before producing
the first commercial shale gas in the nation as China expects to
commence output next month and Australia boosts reserves.  ONGC, India’s biggest explorer, is studying data for shale-
gas deposits and awaiting a government policy on commercial
drilling for gas trapped in shale rock, Sudhir Vasudeva,
chairman of the state-run company, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. China Petrochemical Corp. will start pumping the
nation’s first shale gas from a project in Sichuan province next
month, according to a report on Caixin’s website on May 15,
citing the company.  “We’re studying data, but it’s still early days and may be
four to five years before commercial drilling starts,” New
Delhi-based Vasudeva, 58, said. “If  China  and Australia can
talk more about their reserves and production, it’s because
they’ve been working on this for a while now.”  Companies from France’s Total SA to Australian mining giant
BHP Billion Ltd. began shale-gas projects around the world after
a surge of production in the U.S. turned that fuel-importing
nation into the world’s biggest producer of natural gas. The
U.S. produced 96 billion cubic meters in 2009, overtaking  Russia 
as the largest provider of the fuel.  ONGC shares  fell  0.8 percent to 246.05 rupees, the fifth
day of declines. The stock has decreased 4.1 percent this year,
compared with a 4 percent gain in the benchmark  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)   Australia Resources  Australia ’s energy minister,  Martin Ferguson , said this
week that nation is likely to possess enough shale gas to double
its total gas resources and add to 184 years of output, while
China is estimated to hold the world’s largest deposit of the
unconventional fuel.  India holds  6.1 trillion cubic feet  of technically
recoverable shale gas reserves in three basins, the  U.S.
Geological Survey  estimated in a report in January. That was
less than 10 percent of the 63 trillion cubic feet estimate made
the previous year, in April, by the U.S. Energy Information
Administration in a  report .  “The U.S. estimates are just estimates, and we’ll have to
survey the geology and deposits and drill wells before we know
how much shale gas we have,” Vasudeva said. “What we do know
is that India does have shale-gas reserves.”  ONGC found shale gas at a well in India’s West Bengal
state, according to a Jan. 27, 2011, statement. The company
signed an agreement with  ConocoPhillips (COP)  on March 30 for
developing shale resources in India and  North America .  India Auction  India has started mapping its shale resources and will have
exploration rules in place by 2013, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said March 23. Blocks will be auctioned next year after
the policy is published, G.C. Chaturvedi, the top bureaucrat in
the oil ministry, said Dec. 21.  ConocoPhillips,  BG Group Plc (BG/) ,  Hess Corp. (HES)  and  Mitsubishi
Corp. (8058)  have already agreed to fund shale exploration campaigns
through ventures in Australia. With an estimated 400 trillion
cubic feet of recoverable shale-gas resources, Australia is
poised to commercialize its holdings on a “large scale,”
according to a report last year by the U.S. Energy Information
Administration.  China has 25.08 trillion cubic meters (886 trillion cubic
feet) of exploitable onshore shale-gas reserves, the country’s
land ministry said March 1. The world’s biggest energy consumer
aims to produce 6.5 billion cubic meters of shale gas by 2015
and set a target of 60 billion to 100 billion cubic meters by
2020, the National Development and Reform Commission said.  China Shale  China drilled 50 shale-gas wells in the past year, compared
with 1,300 a month in the U.S., Chris Faulkner, chief executive
officer of Breitling Oil and Gas Corp., said April 23. It takes
“three to five years” for a shale-gas discovery to start
commercial production and an extensive pipeline network is
needed to transport the fuel to consumers.  “A lot of work has yet to be done for us, getting land and
water, disposing of the water used in drilling, creating
infrastructure like pipelines,” Vasudeva said. “We’re only
just starting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  