-- Fitch Cuts Greece as Leaders Spar Over Euro Membership
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s ,   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-05-17T21:39:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/fitch-cuts-greece-as-leaders-spar-over-euro-membership.html
Greece’s credit rating was downgraded
one level by  Fitch Ratings  on concerns the country won’t be able
to muster the political support needed to sustain its membership
in the euro area as leaders began campaigning ahead of the
second national vote in six weeks.  Greece was cut to CCC from B-, according to an e-mailed
statement late yesterday in London. The country’s ceiling was
revised to B-, Fitch said in the statement.  “The strong showing of ‘anti-austerity’ parties in the May
6 parliamentary elections and subsequent failure to form a
government underscores the lack of public and political
support” for the country’s bailout from the European Union and
 International Monetary Fund , Fitch said in the statement.
Failure to form a government that would implement the bailout
terms would mean a “probable” exit from the currency union,
Fitch said.  Greece  swore in a caretaker government led by Panagiotis
Pikrammenos yesterday as the leaders of the two biggest parties
clashed over how the country could stay in the 17-nation euro
region. The new vote follows inconclusive elections that
propelled the Syriza party, which wants to annul the bailout,
into second place. Most opinion polls since the election have
shown that Syriza may build on that support to come first in any
rerun, complicating Greece’s efforts to avoid running out of
cash by early July.  Political Turmoil  The political turmoil has reignited concern the country
will renege on pledges to cut spending as required by the two
separate rescue packages worth 240 billion euros ($305 billion).
That could lead to funding being cut off and has raised the
specter of the country leaving the euro.  The euro fell to a four-month low as  Spain ’s borrowing
costs rose at an auction, stoking concern that the euro region’s
financial woes are spreading from Greece. Europe’s shared
currency remained lower against most of its major counterparts
after the Fitch cut.  Fitch said it would place all euro area sovereign ratings
on Rating Watch Negative following the Greek elections if the
risk of a Greek exit from EMU is probable in the near term. By
revising Greece’s country ceiling to B-, from the AAA previously
assigned to all euro-area countries, it effectively set a cap on
the ratings of all Greek issuers.  “Greece’s membership of the euro is not endangered by
Syriza,” leader Alexis Tsipras said in a speech to his party’s
lawmakers on state-run NET TV yesterday. “It is endangered by
the bankrupt policies of the bailout.”  Austerity Demanded  The conflict between Tsipras, who opposes the austerity
demanded by the European Union bailout, and Antonis Samaras,
leader of  New Democracy , points to the June 17 vote as a
referendum on Greece staying in the currency bloc.  An opinion poll showed Samaras edging ahead of Tsipras in
support, the first such reading since the May 6 election,
raising hopes he can team with another pro-bailout party to form
a government.  “We’ll go down to the wire it seems,” said Lefteris
Farmakis, a strategist at Nomura International Plc in London.
“Syriza has the momentum still, but people may start thinking
in terms of the likely negative consequences of Syriza’s views
for Greece’s European future.”  “The battle that is beginning, the elections, isn’t about
any one party,” Samaras told his lawmakers. “It is about
whether Greece will remain in  Europe , a Europe that is changing,
or whether Greece will be forced to leave Europe, losing much
and risking much more.”  Greeks Divided  Greeks are divided on whether the country will be forced to
leave the euro, with 47.4 percent saying they don’t think there
is a chance compared with 45.2 percent who do, according to a
Marc poll published in Ethnos newspaper yesterday. That poll
showed 81.5 percent of those surveyed believed Greece’s future
lay with the European Union.  Greece’s benchmark ASE Index fell 3.4 percent to finish at
536.49 in  Athens , its lowest close since 1990. European stocks
dropped for a fourth day, with the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
slipping 1.1 percent to 241.63.  The euro was little changed at $1.2694 at 5:32 p.m.  New York 
time after touching $1.2667, the weakest level since Jan. 17.  National Bank of Greece SA  tumbled 4.1 percent yesterday,
extending a 13 percent slide a day earlier after the country’s
central bank chief said citizens had withdrawn as much as 700
million euros ($891 million) from Greek banks.  May 6 Election  The May 6 election left New Democracy and Pasok, the two
parties that supported the international rescue as part of an
interim government this year, two deputies short of the 151
seats needed for a majority in Parliament. New Democracy came
first in the election, though fell short of an outright
majority.  President Karolos Papoulias failed in a bid to broker a
governing coalition in meetings May 15 with party leaders in
Athens.  Tsipras has demanded the caretaker government freeze the
implementation of wage and pension cuts and other austerity
measures until the elections are held and a new government is
formed.  Syriza would win with 22 percent of the vote, according to
a poll by Pulse, published in Pontiki newspaper. New Democracy
would finish second with 19.5 percent and socialist Pasok party
would get 14 percent of the vote.  In contrast, a Marc poll for Alpha TV showed New Democracy
with 23.1 percent while Syriza had 21 percent, according to the
survey of 1,027 Greeks. The Pasok party garnered 13.2 percent,
according to the poll. On the basis of those figures, Pasok and
New Democracy would hold a majority in the 300-seat parliament.  “Syriza’s hardline during the talks on a formation of a
coalition government may have backfired,” said  Wolfango
Piccoli , an analyst at Eurasia Group in  London . “Fear is likely
to be the factor behind ND’s rise as voters are getting
increasingly anxious about their pensions and salaries. However,
it is too early to say whether Syriza has lost the momentum or
not.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story: Craig
Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  Tim
Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  