-- For Iran ‘Breakthrough,’ Coalition Cannot Break Down
-- B y   V a l i   N a s r
-- 2012-05-17T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/for-iran-breakthrough-coalition-cannot-break-down.html
The word “breakthrough” has been
 uttered hopefully  in anticipation of the meeting May 23 in
Baghdad of officials from six world powers and  Iran  to resolve
the standoff over Iran’s nuclear program. A positive meeting
last month in Istanbul kindled a sense of momentum.  The U.S., which has kept the talks on track as Iran has
tried to wiggle out of them, wants Iran to freeze its program
and agree to future negotiations on capping  uranium enrichment 
and opening nuclear sites to full international inspection. But
success will continue to rely on the unified U.S., European,
Russian and Chinese decision to impose punishing economic
sanctions on Iran, and that cohesion is now under threat.  It’s shaky not just because Russia and China are, as usual,
difficult to keep in the corral. The new and greater challenge
is the risk that the just-elected French president will break
ranks and that economic woes will lead to a further dissolution
of European resolve to confront  Iran’s nuclear program .  Before  Nicolas Sarkozy  became president in 2007,  France ,
like the rest of  Europe , took a softer approach to Iran than the
U.S. But Sarkozy was hawkish on Iran, and eager to move France
closer to the U.S. He argued for robust international sanctions
to compel Iran to give up its presumed nuclear weapons program.
His approach influenced the U.K., and eventually hardened the
position of the rest of Europe. Under Sarkozy, France led Europe
in insisting on a tightening of financial pressure and a
European embargo on Iranian oil,  set to begin  July 1.  France’s new Socialist president,  Francois Hollande , is
distancing himself from Sarkozy’s legacy, including on the Iran
policy. Shortly after Hollande’s victory, former Socialist Prime
Minister Michel Rocard visited Iran on a private but symbolic
trip. Although Hollande has publicly pronounced his support for
the U.S. position, it was clear from the comments of Iranian
officials who met with Rocard that they are confident France
will no longer serve as the hard line at the negotiating table.  Continuing economic troubles pose another challenge to
European unity on Iran. The boycott of Iranian oil may lead to
higher energy prices in Europe, which could prove unpopular,
especially on top of austerity measures that are already
emboldening the populist left across the region. Iran might
pursue the strategy it has adopted with  China  and offer
struggling European economies oil at discount prices.
Confronting Iran may no longer be a European priority in the
face of the region’s grave financial problems.  If Europe slides, it would be difficult for the U.S. to
keep China and Russia in the fold, especially with both sets of
relations recently tested. A cloud hangs over U.S.-China ties
after the diplomatic tussle over dissident  Chen Guangcheng , who
sought refuge in the U.S. Embassy in Beijing. As Iran’s largest
trading partner, China has significant control over whether the
sanctions regime works. Only recently has China begun to enforce
sanctions, cutting its Iranian oil imports by 11 percent. It can
do much more to curtail Iranian financial transactions and
trade.  Russia  has always balanced its strategic relationship with
Iran with keeping the U.S. content. The “reset” of U.S.-Russia
relations during the Obama administration’s first year tilted
that balance in  Washington ’s favor. But there is growing
suspicion of U.S. intentions in Russia and a willingness to
score political points by feeding anti-Americanism. Thus the
Kremlin is in no mood to do the U.S. any favors on Iran and
instead prefers obduracy.  To Iran, this is all welcome news: The international
alliance against its nuclear program is losing focus and may
unravel. Almost certainly, there will be no further sanctions,
and those on the books will be implemented inconsistently. Such
a reading will probably lead Iran to take a confident,
uncompromising position in the nuclear negotiations.  The challenge, then, is to keep intact the international
alliance that was created to prevent just that. The U.S. should
work harder at mending fences with Russia and China to keep them
onboard. And European officials should exercise leadership in
keeping this crucial security matter on their agenda. Otherwise,
Iran will have no reason to resolve the nuclear issue. Far from
a breakthrough, what we can expect from the nuclear talks in
that case is a long, slow and frustrating process.  (Vali Nasr is a Bloomberg View contributor, a professor of
international politics at the Fletcher School of Law and
Diplomacy at  Tufts University  and a senior fellow in foreign
policy at the  Brookings Institution . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Vali Nasr at  vali.nasr@tufts.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Lisa Beyer at  lbeyer3@bloomberg.net . 