-- Fortress Gathering Capital for Mortgage-Servicing Rights
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-05-17T19:05:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/fortress-gathering-capital-for-mortgage-servicing-rights.html
Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) , the
New York-based investment firm overseeing $46.4 billion, is
seeking capital to buy residential mortgage-servicing rights as
banks sell the loans, according to a presentation to clients.  The firm may invest through separate accounts as well as a
commingled fund, in which commitments from clients are pooled,
according to the marketing presentation, a copy of which was
obtained by Bloomberg News. The rights are a contractual monthly
fee paid for servicing a loan, based on the size of the balance.  Gordon Runte, a spokesman for Fortress, declined to
comment.  Firms such as Fortress and  West Palm Beach , Florida-based
 Ocwen Financial Corp. (OCN)  are picking up business as banks retreat
from mortgage servicing because of regulatory pressure from
Basel III rules that make it costlier to hold risky assets. The
investments are expected to produce income without relying
directly on housing market performance, according to Fortress.  “In the U.S., the regulatory drumbeat continues,” Wes Edens, head of private equity at Fortress, said during an
earnings call this month. “There is going to be a flight of
businesses and assets out of regulated financial institutions
into nonregulated. We see that certainly in the mortgage-
servicing rights.”  Fortress and its affiliates since December have used a co-
investment structure to buy servicing rights for more than $70
billion of unpaid principal balance, according to the
presentation, which doesn’t set a fundraising target. The more
than $700 billion of unpaid balance in the available pipeline
may surge to $4 trillion over the next five years, Fortress
estimated.  Aurora Bank Deal  The firm’s investments in the first quarter included a deal
to purchase mortgage-servicing rights from Aurora Bank FSB, a
unit of defunct Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Fortress affiliate
 Newcastle Investment Corp. (NCT)  said in March it would acquire an
interest of about 65 percent in Aurora’s “excess” rights.  Newcastle, a publicly traded real estate investment trust
run by a Fortress affiliate, raised $325 million over the past
12 months to invest in mortgage-servicing rights, said Randal Nardone, Fortress’s interim chief executive officer, on the May
3 earnings call.  Fortress plans to expand its mortgage-servicing business
without holding all the assets on its balance sheet.  Nationstar
Mortgage Holdings Inc. (NSM) , the affiliate it brought public in
March, will service the assets and may invest in a portion of
the rights, Edens said on the call. Fortress and Nationstar this
month agreed to buy the residential-mortgage unit of  Ally
Financial Inc. (ALLY)  for about $2.3 billion.  Fortress will charge clients a management fee of 1.5
percent and take a 10 percent cut of profits, subject to
preferred return requirements, according to the materials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  