-- G-8 Leaders to Discuss Oil Market as Iran Embargo Nears
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-05-17T19:40:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/g-8-leaders-to-discuss-oil-market-as-iran-embargo-nears.html
The impact on  oil prices  from
sanctions on Iran will be on the agenda when President  Barack Obama  meets with other leaders of the Group of Eight nations,
National Security Adviser Tom Donilon said.  Strategic oil reserves also will be part of a “broad
discussion” about energy markets at the summit, Donilon said at
a briefing, refusing to say whether the U.S. will advance any
decision about tapping supplies.  The U.S. and its allies are monitoring oil markets
“particularly in light of the Iranian sanctions,” he said.
“I’m sure that the leaders will discuss the range of options
that they might have before them.”  The G-8 meeting begins tomorrow night at the at the Camp
David presidential retreat in rural  Maryland .  The U.S. and its European allies have been discussing world
oil markets and the use of strategic reserves both for the
impact of crude prices on the global economy and potential
supply shortfalls when a European Union ban on Iranian imports
begins July 1.  Crude oil for June delivery fell 33 cents, or 0.4 percent,
to $92.48 a barrel at 2:04 p.m. on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  on investor speculation that demand will drop as global
economic growth slows because of the  European debt crisis .
Prices have declined 10.5 percent since the start of the year.  Under a law signed by Obama Dec. 31, banks that settle
petroleum-related transactions through Iran’s central bank in
any country that has failed to show a “significant reduction”
in Iranian oil imports would be cut off from the U.S. banking
system. The law requires reductions by June 28 and countries can
avoid the sanctions if they take steps by then. The president
didn’t set targets for reductions.  Iran Penalties  The penalties are among dozens of measures adopted by the
U.S. and the EU since November in the standoff with  Iran . The EU
banned new oil contracts with Iran on Jan. 23 and embargoed all
Iranian oil effective July 1. The U.S.,  Europe  and  Israel  have
accused Iran of seeking the capability to build a nuclear
weapon. Iran says its program is solely for civilian energy and
medical research.  Iran is the second-biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries.  Under the U.S. law, Obama is required to make period
assessments of world oil supplies to determine whether they are
sufficient to proceed with the congressionally mandated
sanctions designed to deny Iran income from oil exports.  Global fuel use averaged 1.7 million barrels a day more
than production without Iran in March and April based on output
and demand data, the U.S. Energy Department’s Energy Information
Administration reported last month.  The department reported yesterday that crude stockpiles
climbed 2.13 million barrels to 381.6 million last week, the
highest level since 1990.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  