-- Gap First-Quarter Profit Beats Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-05-17T21:05:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/gap-full-year-profit-forecast-trails-analysts-estimates.html
Gap Inc. (GPS) , the largest U.S. specialty-
apparel retailer, posted first-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates after sales for the period advanced to the
highest level in four years.  Net income for the three months ended April 28 was $233
million, or 47 cents a share, compared with $233 million, or 40
cents, a year earlier, San Francisco-based Gap said today in a
statement.  Analysts projected 46 cents, the average of 26
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Gap has  been  a top performer in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index this year as compelling merchandise and marketing at its
namesake brand in North America drove the best  same-store  sales
in two years. Analysts have been viewing the success of the
spring collection as the start of a turnaround at Gap in  North
America , where the company has lost sales in recent years to
fast-fashion competitors such as Hennes & Mauritz AB.  “This is the first full season we’ve seen the product
significantly better, also probably the first season where the
management team has had more confidence in the direction of the
merchandise,” Betty Chen, a San Francisco-based analyst at
Wedbush Securities, said before the results were announced.
“That’s part of the reason they decided to reinvest in
marketing this year, to support those product changes.”  Gap rose 6.4 percent to $28 at 4:52 p.m. in New York.
Shares of the retailer had rallied 42 percent this year through
the close of regular trading today, the fourth-best performance
in the  S&P 500 .  Annual Forecast  Sales in the first quarter rose 5.9 percent to $3.49
billion from $3.3 billion a year ago, Gap said. That’s the  best 
for the period since 2008, Bloomberg data show. Same-store sales
rose 4 percent, compared with a 3 percent decline a year
earlier.  Profit for this fiscal year will be as much as $1.83 per
share, according to today’s statement. The forecast, up from a
previous projection of a maximum of $1.80 per share, trailed the
$1.98 average of 27 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Gap spent more on short-term investments including
marketing and operating costs in the first quarter, according to
the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  