-- Geithner Sees Perception Issue with Dimon on NY Fed Board
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-05-17T23:51:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/geithner-sees-perception-issue-with-dimon-on-ny-fed-board.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said having bankers on the board of the New York
Federal Reserve creates a “perception” problem.  Geithner was responding to a question about whether  Jamie Dimon , the chief executive officer of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
should be on the board of the New York Fed.  Board members play no role in supervision, rule-writing and
response to a financial crisis, Geithner said, according to a
transcript of comments he made in an interview with PBS
television’s NewsHour being broadcast tonight.  “But I agree with you that the, that perception is a
problem,” Geithner said, according to the transcript. “And
it’s worth trying to figure out how to fix that.”  Elizabeth Warren , a Democrat running for U.S. Senate from
Massachusetts, called for Dimon’s removal from the district bank
board. Senator  Bernard Sanders , a Vermont Independent, said he
sees a conflict in Dimon’s two roles. Dimon last week reported a
$2 billion trading loss at JPMorgan.  “I think it’s a problem that that -- the structure of the
Fed, established 90 years ago, and it’s true for Federal Reserve
banks across the country, creates that basic perception,”
Geithner said, according to the transcript. “And I think that’s
something worth trying to change.”  Dimon is one of three bankers sitting on the board of the
New York Fed, as required by the Federal Reserve Act of 1913.
The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act ended the practice of banker directors
having a vote in electing regional presidents, a move the  New
York  Fed’s William C. Dudley said in a September interview that
he supported.  Fed governance came under scrutiny after taxpayer-funded
bailouts during the 2008 financial crisis sparked a political
backlash. The Dodd-Frank Act required a Government
Accountability Office audit of the central bank, which was
completed last year and found the Fed needs to strengthen
policies governing conflicts of interest and improve
transparency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  