-- Geithner Says U.S. Economy Faces Challenges From Europe
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-05-17T14:51:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/geithner-says-u-s-economy-faces-challenges-from-europe.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the U.S. economy still faces challenges from the
aftermath of the financial crisis and the “damaging” situation
in Europe.  “We still have a lot of work to do to repair the damage
from the crisis and get more Americans back to work. And we
still face some risks ahead,” Geithner said in a speech in
Baltimore today. “We still live in a dangerous and uncertain
world, with Europe confronting a severe and protracted crisis.”  Geithner’s comments came as the  European debt crisis 
mounted on concerns that  Greece  may leave the euro area.
Greece’s impasse over forming a government led to the scheduling
of another election next month, threatening the implementation
of austerity pledges under the international financial rescue
plan.  Geithner also warned that the U.S. economy continues to
face the threat of higher  oil prices .  “The world is engaged in a critical struggle with  Iran ,
which has added to upward pressure on oil prices,” Geithner
said.  In response to a question after his speech, Geithner said
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s $2 billion trading loss makes the case
for financial reform rules to be tough and effective.  “This is obviously a material, significant failure of risk
management,” Geithner said. “It makes a very powerful case for
financial reform.”  JPMorgan Loss  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 56, announced the loss
May 10, assailing his firm’s handling of trading in synthetic
credit positions as “flawed, complex, poorly reviewed, poorly
executed and poorly monitored.”  In the U.S., Geithner urged Congress to take steps to speed
up the recovery. Congress can help “Americans refinance their
mortgages, creating incentives for companies to bring jobs back
from overseas, putting veterans back to work, creating jobs by
investing in clean energy, and cutting taxes for small
businesses,” Geithner said.  Geithner said the challenges facing the  U.S. economy 
“cannot be solved by an economic agenda of severe, immediate
austerity, combined with deep, permanent cuts in education and
the safety net for retirees, caps on spending that could not
plausibly accommodate the 25 million Americans who become
eligible for Medicare and Social Security over the next 15
years.”  Urged Congress  He urged Congress to “act quickly to prevent  interest
rates  on  student loans  from doubling this summer and pass a
transportation bill to put thousands of construction workers
back on the job.”  Geithner again urged Congress to not repeat last year’s
months-long debate over raising the debt limit. The Treasury
secretary also said the executive branch has “tools” that can
push back the deadline for raising the debt limit until early
2013, even though the government will hit the ceiling before the
end of the year.  “It is not a crisis; it does not need to be a crisis. It’s
a crisis Congress is making,” Geithner said. He said Congress
should raise the debt limit in a way that does not cause pain
and damage. “You don’t need to put the threat of default over
the country to try to induce politicians to act.”  House Speaker  John Boehner  on May 16 revived Republicans’
insistence that any increase in the nation’s debt limit be
matched by at least as much in spending cuts, positioning his
party for a renewed standoff with Democrats over the  federal
budget .  Europe Crisis ‘Damaging’  On  Europe , Geithner said it is “still caught in a grip of
a very tough financial crisis. That crisis as it has evolved has
been quite damaging to the growth around the world,” Geithner
said. “They are trying to find a better balance between growth
and austerity. They are working to make sure their financial
system is strong enough to weather the storm.”  European governments have hinted at giving Greece more time
to meet budget-cut targets as long as the country’s feuding
politicians put together a ruling coalition committed to
austerity.  Euro-area finance ministers in March decided that 500
billion euros ($635 billion) in fresh money would go along with
300 billion euros already committed to create an 800 billion-
euro defense against the two-year-old crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Baltimore at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  