-- Giants Unveil White Gold ‘Restaurant Ring’ From Super Bowl Title
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-05-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/giants-unveil-white-gold-restaurant-ring-from-super-bowl-title.html
New York Giants defensive end  Justin Tuck  said he wanted the team’s Super Bowl championship jewelry
to be a “restaurant ring,” big enough to be seen from every
corner of any eating establishment.  Last night, after the team’s closed-door ring ceremony at
the  Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  building in midtown  Manhattan , the 29-year-old
Tuck said the final product fit his expectations. Wearing the
new ring and the one he earned with the Giants from the 2007
season, Tuck said he heeded advice from former teammate Michael Strahan to try to design “the biggest and baddest ring you can
get.”  “You sit back and think of how lucky you are to be in this
situation,” Tuck said. “A lot of great players never even had
the opportunity to win playoff games, nonetheless Super Bowl
rings, and I have two so I’m definitely thankful.”  The white gold diamond- and sapphire-studded rings unveiled
yesterday will be distributed this week to around 300 people who
contributed to the 21-17  Super Bowl  victory against the  New
England Patriots  in February. It was designed by Tiffany, with
input from members of the Giants organization including General
Manager Jerry Reese, coach  Tom Coughlin  and captains Tuck,  Eli Manning  and Zak DeOssie.  The ring honors each of the franchise’s Super Bowl
victories, with four Vince Lombardi Trophies on the face and the
years 1986, 1990, 2007 and 2011 etched around the band.  Players’ Design  “I pretty much let the players design the ring, and that’s
why it came out so big,” team co-owner  John Mara  said after the
ceremony. “The only thing I wanted to see on the ring was the
recognition of all four Lombardi Trophies.”  Running back  Ahmad Bradshaw , who also participated in the
17-14 Super Bowl win against the undefeated Patriots after the
2007 season, said this year’s ring differs from his other one
because of a circle of 37 blue sapphires around the face. The
Giants did not say how much the rings cost.  “The blue is where to go man, we’re ‘Big Blue,”’ Bradshaw
said after the ceremony. “I couldn’t wait to put it on.”  The words “all in” and “finish” are engraved inside the
ring, two motivational phrases the Giants used throughout the
2011 season, when the team recovered from a late four-game
losing streak to qualify for the playoffs in the final week of
the regular season. The ring’s sides also feature the team logo,
and each recipient’s name and number.  ‘Icing on the Cake’  Wide receiver  Victor Cruz , who caught 82 passes for 1,536
yards and nine touchdowns in 2011, called the ring the “icing
on the cake” of his first full NFL season.  “I want to win another one,” Cruz, 25, said before the
ceremony. “I’m young, so I figure if we’re going to win one
early in my career, why not get a couple more?”  Cruz was not the only player to say that seeing the ring
made him hungrier for another. Tuck, Manning, Bradshaw and
cornerback Antrel Rolle all echoed the sentiment, which Coughlin
said he was happy to hear.  “It’s a long haul and there’s a lot of hard work and
tremendous sacrifice that has to go into preparing,” Coughlin,
65, said about the possibility of breaking his own record as
oldest coach to win the Super Bowl. “Next year it will be our
goal, as it is every year.”  Tuck compared this year’s ring to the 2007 version, which
Strahan called a “10-table ring” because it was visible from
10 tables away. He said he made a number of suggestions that
didn’t make the final version, including a four-finger ring for
each of the team’s Super Bowl titles, small murals of individual
players’ faces, and a way to honor the state of  New Jersey ,
where the team plays its home games.  “It’s very hard to get one of these things,” Tuck joked.
“Hopefully with ring three I can get a little bit more push
behind some of these ideas.”  -- Editor: Rob Gloster, Dex McLuskey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  