-- GM Chief Hopes to Return to Investment Grade Within Year
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-05-17T20:14:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/gm-chief-hopes-to-return-to-investment-grade-within-year.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  Chief Executive
Officer Dan Akerson said he hopes the automaker regains an
investment-grade  credit rating  within the next year.  “There are things that will happen over the next year or
so that will drive that decision,” Akerson said in an interview
this week at Bloomberg’s New York headquarters. “I hope so, but
I don’t know,” he replied when asked if GM will get an
investment rating in 12 months.  Akerson, 63, who became CEO in September 2010 less than
three months before GM’s initial public offering, has pushed for
additional restructuring as he tries to increase GM’s profit
margins, which lag behind  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and
Hyundai Motor Co.  The Detroit-based automaker, along with Ford, fell to junk
status in 2005 as part of a slide that eventually included GM’s
government-backed bankruptcy reorganization in 2009. Ford
avoided bankruptcy, recorded a $20.2 billion profit last year
and was returned to investment grade by  Fitch Ratings  in April.
Ford’s net income included a $12.4 billion non-cash gain related
to tax accounting.  GM, which earned a record profit in 2011 of $9.19 billion,
will likely follow Ford to investment grade by one or more of
the major credit-rating companies this year, Vince Foley, an
industry analyst with Barclays Plc, said in a telephone
interview.  “When you look at the balance sheet of this company and at
some of the credit metrics, they’ve been investment grade for a
year,” Foley said. “There aren’t many high-yield companies
that I cover that are sitting on $31.5 billion in net cash.”  Akerson said a return to investment grade would be
“symbolic,” calling it one measure of success.  ‘Fortress Balance Sheet’  “I would like to have it,” he said. “But you say to
yourself, ‘Is that the measure of success?’ It’s one aspect of
it but if we do the other things really well -- if we develop
great products, if we burnish our brands, which we’re really
making progress on, if we maintain that fortress  balance sheet  -
- it will come in time.”  While GM posted its ninth straight profitable quarter in
the first three months of 2012, earnings were reduced by
continued losses in  Europe . Since 1999, GM has lost $16.4
billion in the region, which includes its Opel operations.  The automaker last year appeared on track to break even
until November as Europe’s economy worsened. Akerson was part of
the GM board that decided against selling the company’s German-
based Opel unit in 2009.  Challenges in Europe  “The fact that GM and Ford are making money and generating
cash in the U.S. is a mitigant to the Europe challenges. But for
a higher rating, we’d have to think about how Europe plays
out,”  Robert Schulz , an analyst with  Standard & Poor’s  Rating
Services, said in a telephone interview.  GM said today it will move production of the next version
of Opel Astra to a plant in  England , one of two factories that
analysts had said was at jeopardy for shuttering, raising
speculation that one in  Germany  will be closed.  “The wild cards, some of which are under GM’s control,
some of which aren’t, are just what happens in Europe in terms
of both the sales levels and the potential contagion coming out
of Europe that affects the U.S. and Opel’s own situation
there,” Schulz said.  Standard & Poor’s has GM at BB+, one level below investment
grade. Moody’s Investors Service rates GM at Ba1, one step below
investment grade, while Fitch has the automaker at BB, two steps
into junk.  Underfunded Pensions  “When we look at General Motors from a number of different
perspectives, they have a lot of investment-grade
characteristics,”  Bruce Clark , a New York-based analyst with
Moody’s, said in a telephone interview. “The main question we
will address in considering an investment-grade rating for GM
is: If we go there, will that rating be sustainable?”  In addition to Europe, analysts, including Clark and Steve Brown, a Chicago-based analyst with Fitch, said they want to
know how the automaker will handle its pension plans, which were
underfunded by $25.4 billion at the end of 2011.  “The bankruptcy did a great job of getting the balance
sheet in order but a lot of the work that’s going on at the
company today is trying to get the operations to a point they’re
comfortable that they can be profitable through the cycle,”
Fitch’s Brown said in a telephone interview.  U.S. Stake  The U.S. Treasury Department sold 28 percent of GM at $33 a
share in the IPO and still holds  32 percent  of the common stock,
acquired in the $50 billion bailout by the Obama administration.
The U.S. wants to sell for at least the IPO price, people
familiar with the matter have said.  GM slid 1.4 percent to $21.61 at the close in  New York .  Foley, the Barclays analyst, said he doesn’t expect a huge
difference in borrowing costs for GM after an upgrade.  “It’s a symbol, ‘We’re back,’” he said of an upgrade.
“‘We’ve been through the worst financial crisis, we filed
bankruptcy, and we changed our operations.’ Look, they are in a
much better spot today than they were in anywhere around the
bankruptcy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in New York at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  