-- GM Names Batey Vice President of U.S. Sales and Service
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-05-17T20:35:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/gm-names-batey-vice-president-of-u-s-sales-and-service.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , the world’s
largest automaker last year, said it named Alan Batey to the new
position of vice president of U.S. sales and service.  Batey, who had been vice president of U.S. Chevrolet sales
and service, becomes the top sales executive in the U.S.,
reporting to  Mark Reuss , North America president.  “GM is playing offense with an aggressive rollout of new
cars, trucks and crossovers,” Reuss said in an e-mailed
statement. “Strengthening our U.S. sales team will help take
full advantage of these growth opportunities.”  The automaker’s U.S. sales in the year’s first four months
slid after a 13 percent gain in 2011. GM’s U.S. light-vehicle
sales fell 0.4 percent through April to 821,707, according to
researcher Autodata Corp.  “They have to get back into the car business, meaning
small cars versus trucks and SUVs,” said  Jesse Toprak , an
industry analyst with TrueCar.com, a website that tracks auto
sales. “Batey’s experience around the globe really has been
mostly about making smaller vehicles. They probably they think
having that experience will pay off as they try rebalance their
mix in the U.S.”  Don Johnson , 55, currently U.S. vice president of sales
operations, was named U.S. vice president of Chevrolet sales and
service, replacing Batey, 49, according to the statement. The
appointments are effective June 1, GM said.  In other changes, Kurt McNeil, 48, U.S. vice president of
Cadillac sales and service, replaces Johnson as U.S. vice
president of sales operations, GM said. Chase Hawkins, 43,
regional director of Cadillac sales and service in the northeast
region, replaces McNeil as head of Cadillac sales.  Ed Peper, 50, becomes U.S. vice president of fleet and
commercial sales, according to the statement. He has been
general manager.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  