-- GM Building Astra in U.K. Raises Doubt for German Factory
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   J a s p e r ,   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-05-17T17:53:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/gm-s-opel-may-scale-back-astra-factories-labor-head-says.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  said it will move
production of the next version of the Opel Astra to a plant in
 England , one of two factories that analysts had identified as in
jeopardy, raising the likelihood that the other will be closed.  The automaker will build an updated version of the Opel
Astra compact car at a plant in Ellesmere Port, England, while
ending production of the model at its Ruesselsheim, Germany,
factory, which GM said will remain in full use. The company
didn’t say what it plans to do with its factory in Bochum,
Germany, which has been regarded as a candidate for shuttering.  “Bochum has no chance in the production system after
2015,” said  Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer , director of the Center for
Automotive Research at the  University of Duisburg-Essen . “In my
opinion, Bochum will be closed.”  GM has been seeking to end losses in  Europe  that totaled
$16.4 billion since 1999. Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson,
part of the board that decided against selling Opel in 2009,
wants to improve Detroit-based GM’s profit margins and
strengthen its brands.  The Ellesmere Port site operated by Opel’s British Vauxhall
brand will be the lead factory in making the new Astra, to be
introduced from 2015, after workers voted to accept proposals
for improved productivity, GM said today in a statement.  “Ellesmere Port will become one of the most competitive in
the Vauxhall-Opel manufacturing network,” said the automaker,
which has 40,000 workers at 11 European plants, 2,100 of them at
the U.K. site. “The plant will implement a number of creative
operating solutions to improve flexibility and reduce fixed
costs.”  GM Investment  GM will invest 300 million euros ($382 million) in Astra
production in the U.K. and at an existing site in Gliwice,
 Poland , while ending assembly of the model at Opel’s
Ruesselsheim base, which began building the five-door after a
2010 reorganization aimed at stemming losses.  Capacity at the plant near  Frankfurt , which also makes the
mid-sized Insignia, will continue to be “fully utilized,” Opel
said, without elaborating.  The next-generation Astra will add 700 jobs at Ellesmere
Port after workers agreed to new contracts starting next year
and running into the early 2020s, according to Opel, which will
invest 125 million pounds ($198 million) there and guarantee
output of at least 160,000 cars a year.  Workers will move to a three-shift daily work pattern from
the current two shifts, and the site will be profitable running
at full capacity, the automaker said.  GM Pressure  GM has been pressuring workers at each Opel site for
concessions after the European business had an adjusted
operating loss of $256 million in the first quarter compared
with a $5 million profit a year earlier, Wolfgang Schaefer-Klug,
head of the its works council, said May 8, adding that ending
work on the Astra in Germany would send “the wrong signal to
customers.”  GM’s February accord with Paris-based  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) 
also raised doubts over Ellesmere Port and Bochum, the oldest
Opel plants and in theory the least efficient and most likely to
be closed, Dudenhoeffer, the auto researcher, has said.  Bochum, which has 3,100 workers, doesn’t build the current
Astra, producing only an older version for eastern Europe, plus
the Zafira minivan, and isn’t directly affected by today’s
announcement, Harald Hamprecht, an Opel spokesman, said by
phone.  “Zafira will be built in Bochum until the end of 2014,”
he said. “Beyond that, no decisions have been taken.”  Vauxhall Sales  The Ellesmere Port plant was also regarded as vulnerable
because its last home-grown Vauxhall design, the Viva sedan,
ended production in 1979, with subsequent models based on
rebadged Opels.  Vauxhall sold almost 235,000 cars in the U.K. last year for
a 12 percent market share, second only to  Ford Motor Co. (F)  While
Opel sales in Germany were higher at 285,000, that amounted to
just 9 percent of the market and a fourth-place rank behind
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG. (BMW)   U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said the GM announcement
was “excellent news” and resulted from a “team effort”
between his government, Vauxhall and organized labor. Business
Secretary Vince Cable said GM’s decision was based on
“commercial” factors.  ‘Completely Committed’  “We haven’t been waving a check book,” Cable said on BBC
Radio 4’s “Today” program. “The company felt we in the U.K.
were completely committed to this industry. The workforce is
flexible. Exchange rates go up and down.”  A few hundred jobs may be created at the Polish Gliwice
site to allow for the third shift, while Hamprecht said details
have not been decided.  Production of the current Astra started in Ruesselsheim in
2011 with 18,300 cars, as well as 149,800 Insignias, according
to company data. The plant also made 12,600 Buick Regals, a re-
badged version of the Insignia sold in the U.S., and is due to
build 70,000 Astras in 2012, labor leader Schaefer-Klug said.  Turning around operations in Europe will involve a series
of actions rather than “a big bang,” GM Chief Financial
Officer Dan Ammann said May 3. Opel will stand by an agreement
not to close plants before the end of 2014, Karl-Friedrich Stracke, president of European operations, said the same day.  In addition to Ellesmere Port, Ruesselsheim, Bochum and
Gliwice, Opel has two more plants in  Germany  and one each in the
U.K., Poland,  Austria ,  Hungary  and  Spain , where the largest, in
Zaragoza, was established in 1982 and employs 6,500 people.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net ;
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  