-- Goldman Sachs Lawyer From Sullivan May Testify on Gupta
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-05-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/goldman-sachs-lawyer-from-sullivan-may-testify-on-gupta.html
A  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  lawyer
from Sullivan & Cromwell LLP may testify at next week’s insider-
trading trial of Rajat Gupta, a former director at the bank, a
prosecutor said.  At a pretrial conference yesterday in Manhattan federal
court, Assistant U.S. Attorney Reed Brodsky said prosecutors
expect to present testimony from Steven Peikin, a lawyer at
Sullivan & Cromwell who advises New York-based Goldman Sachs.  Peikin’s testimony “will relate to certain statements made
by Mr. Gupta in an interview,” Brodsky told U.S. District Judge
Jed Rakoff, without providing other details.  Brodsky’s comments came at the close of a hearing in which
Rakoff said he’s likely to allow prosecutors to introduce as
evidence four wiretaps from 2008 that are critical to the
government’s case.  In one, Gupta is heard discussing Goldman Sachs business
with Galleon Group LLC co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , who is now
serving an 11-year prison term for  insider trading . In three
others, Gupta isn’t a participant as Rajaratnam discusses stock
trades with his employees.  Prosecutors say Rajaratnam made the trades based on Gupta’s
leaks. Rakoff said the three wiretaps may show Rajaratnam, as
one member of an insider-trading conspiracy, referring to tips
he got from Gupta, who prosecutors say is another member of the
scheme.  Gupta isn’t identified on the wiretaps, and the defense
denies that Rajaratnam is discussing him. Rajaratnam isn’t
expected to testify at the trial.  Three Calls  “I think that they are admissible subject to connection,
in terms of being in furtherance of the conspiracy,” Rakoff
said at the hearing, referring to the three calls where Gupta
isn’t a participant.  Gupta, who ran consulting firm McKinsey & Co. from 1994 to
2003, is scheduled to go on trial May 21 for tipping Rajaratnam
about earnings at Goldman Sachs and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , where
Gupta was also a director. He has pleaded not guilty to five
counts of  securities fraud  and one count of conspiracy.  Prosecutors said at yesterday’s hearing that their first
witness will be Caryn Eisenberg, who was Rajaratnam’s assistant
at Galleon. They didn’t say when they would call Peikin, who
didn’t return a telephone call yesterday for comment.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment.  Rakoff said his ruling on the three wiretaps without Gupta
isn’t final. Before they’re played, prosecutors will have to
establish that a conspiracy existed between Rajaratnam and
Gupta, he said. Gupta’s lawyer,  Gary Naftalis , had argued that
calls without Gupta are hearsay and not admissible as evidence.  ‘Something Good’  In one of the three calls, Rajaratnam tells Galleon trader
 Ian Horowitz  on Sept. 24, 2008, that he’d directed a large trade
of Goldman Sachs the day before. “I got a call at 3:58,”
Rajaratnam said, “saying something good might happen to
Goldman.”  Prosecutors say Gupta tipped Rajaratnam after participating
by phone in a meeting of the Goldman Sachs board in which
Goldman Sachs agreed to accept a $5 billion investment from
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B)   After Gupta told Rajaratnam about the investment, the  fund
manager  directed that Galleon purchase $27 million of Goldman
Sachs stock, prosecutors said. Galleon made a $840,000 profit on
the trade, prosecutors said.  Rakoff also made a preliminary ruling denying Gupta’s bid
to exclude a July 29, 2008, call in which Gupta discloses to
Rajaratnam details of a Goldman Sachs board meeting about the
bank seeking to acquire a commercial bank or  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)   ‘More Prejudicial’  Rakoff said that he may reconsider his ruling on that phone
recording as the trial proceeds.  Naftalis said that the information discussed on the July 29
call wasn’t confidential and that the recording should be
excluded because it is “more prejudicial than probative.”  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  