-- Gold Fields First-Quarter Profit Falls, Beats Estimate
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-05-17T15:51:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/gold-fields-says-first-quarter-profit-fell-beats-estimate.html
Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) , the fourth-largest
producer of the metal, trimmed its full-year production outlook
because of technical difficulties after reporting an 18 percent
drop in first-quarter earnings.  The new target is 3.5 million ounces compared with a
previous range of 3.5 million to 3.7 million ounces, Chief
Executive Officer  Nick Holland  said today in an interview in
Johannesburg, where the company is based.  “Instead of being somewhere in the range, we think now
we’re going to be at the bottom of the range,” he said.  Gold producers including  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , Harmony
Gold Mining Co., and Gold Fields are struggling to boost output
to benefit from rising prices and counter higher costs. They are
being confronted by ever-deeper mines, government measures aimed
at reducing accidents, and mounting labor disputes and technical
obstacles.  Gold Fields cut its minimum output forecast from  Ghana ’s
Damang mine this year to 175,000 ounces from 210,000 ounces
because of a program to improve its performance that may cost
$50 million to $60 million in the next three years. Mining in
the pit is also switching to ore containing about 1.4 grams a
ton from 2 grams for safety reasons, Holland said.  The minimum expected production from the Agnew mine in
 Western Australia  was cut to 160,000 ounces from 190,000 ounces
as poor ground conditions that eroded first-quarter output are
expected to continue, the company said.  The stock rose 1.9 percent to 100.68 rand at the 5 p.m.
close in Johannesburg, giving the company a market value of 73
billion rand ($8.8 billion).  Lower Output  First-quarter profit fell 18 percent from the preceding
three months as production slid 6 percent to 827,000 ounces and
costs rose 13 percent to $870 an ounce. The company produces
about half of its metal in  South Africa .  Earnings excluding one-time items declined to 2.17 billion
rand, or 3 rand a share, beating the median  estimate  of seven
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg for 2.69 rand.  Gold Fields reported a 255 million-rand tax credit in the
quarter. The South African government scrapped a 10 percent
secondary tax on companies and introduced a 15 percent
withholding tax on dividends.  AngloGold, the world’s third-largest gold producer, last
week beat expectations with a 46 percent increase in adjusted
earnings excluding one-time items to $1.11 a share, helped by a
$90 million tax credit. Harmony,  Africa ’s third-biggest
producer, also beat estimates with earnings of 2.34 rand,
boosted by a 652 million rand tax credit.  Reduce Dependence  Gold Fields, planning to have 5 million ounces in
production or in development by 2015, is studying opportunities
in  Finland , the  Philippines , Peru and  Mali  as it looks to reduce
the proportion it mines in South Africa, which already has the
world’s deepest mines. Labor and power costs in the country have
increased by more than inflation for each of the past three
years.  The Far Southeast gold-copper resource in the Philippines
could be Gold Fields’ biggest mine ever, Holland said in the
interview. Preliminary estimates suggest it contains more than
52 million ounces, worth about $80 billion at current prices.  “You don’t find that kind of resource easily,” Holland
said. “It’s very large.” Gold Fields has started a so-called
prefeasibility study to determine whether a mine will be viable,
Holland said.  In Ghana, Gold Fields will probably secure a special tax
arrangement known as a stability agreement, Peet van Schalkwyk,
head of West African operations, told reporters. Rivals
including AngloGold have stability agreements, giving them more
favorable tax rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  