-- Goldman to Cash Out $1 Billion of Facebook Holding in IPO
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-05-17T21:32:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/goldman-to-cash-out-1-billion-of-facebook-holding-in-ipo.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and funds
managed by the firm raised $1.09 billion selling stock in
 Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s initial public offering, cashing out almost half
their stake in the social network.  The investment bank and its funds offered 28.7 million of
the 65.9 million shares they own at $38 apiece, the top of the
 price range . Goldman Sachs sold 6.18 million of its own
holdings, raising $235 million. The number of shares being
offered by Goldman Sachs was included in a filing yesterday by
 Menlo Park ,  California-based Facebook .  The investment gain helps validate Goldman Sachs Chief
Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein’s business model and a
January 2011 transaction that threatened to undermine efforts to
improve his New York-based company’s reputation after it settled
fraud claims a year earlier. U.S. regulators are drafting rules
to prevent banks that receive federal backing from making risky
bets with their own money.  “What risks should government-insured banks be taking?
What if, hypothetically, Facebook had imploded?” asked Benjamin B. Wallace, an analyst at Westborough, Massachusetts-based
Grimes & Co., which manages about $1 billion and doesn’t hold
Goldman Sachs shares. “This is what happens when it works
out.”  Goldman Sachs and its funds could sell 4.3 million more
shares -- bringing the total raised to as much as $1.25 billion
at the $38 price -- if the IPO’s underwriters decide there’s
enough demand, according to Facebook’s filing. If that so-called
greenshoe option is exercised, the investment bank and its funds
will have cut their holdings 50 percent. Underwriters include
Morgan Stanley,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Goldman Sachs.  Group Effort  Goldman Sachs created a special-purpose vehicle to bundle
the holdings under one name and sell the stock to wealthy
clients. That kept it from running afoul of securities rules
mandating that companies with at least 500 investors meet U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission reporting requirements.  Jon Stewart , discussing the deal on  Comedy Central ’s “The Daily
Show,” joked at the time, “Oh Goldman, is there any
regulation’s intent you can’t subvert?”  A document for investors disclosed that Goldman Sachs might
sell or hedge its stake without warning clients, underscoring
potential conflicts in the firm’s business model of investing
its own money as well as advising customers. The bank eventually
said it canceled an offering of Facebook shares to U.S.
investors amid concern that “intense media attention” may
violate rules limiting marketing of private securities. Only
offshore clients could participate in the deal.  Balancing Act  “Investing for clients, that’s certainly something they
should be doing,” Wallace said about Goldman Sachs. “If,
instead of investing proprietary money you pool investor money
and manage that, there’s still an opportunity” for Goldman
Sachs, he said.  The IPO, the largest by a technology company, values
Facebook at more than $104 billion. That’s more than double the
$50 billion value at which Goldman Sachs offered $1 billion of
stock to non-U.S. clients in January 2011. The firm and the
Goldman Sachs Investment Partners hedge fund run by Raanan A. Agus bought $450 million of Facebook stock.  A Bloomberg poll in late January 2011 found that 69 percent
of global investors, traders and analysts surveyed thought the
$50 billion valuation was too high.  What Goldman Gets  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-largest U.S. bank by assets, sold
6.18 million of the 14.2 million shares it owns for its own
account, according to Facebook’s  filing . The sale price values
the firm’s total investment at $540 million, of which Goldman
Sachs is cashing in $235 million in the IPO. If the greenshoe is
exercised at $38, Goldman Sachs will raise an additional $35
million. That would cut the size of its holding to 7.1 million
shares, valued at $270 million.  The gain on Goldman Sachs’s Facebook stake will be
recognized in second-quarter results, helping to mitigate
“weakness in  investment banking  and trading revenue,”  Edward Najarian , an analyst at International Strategy & Investment
Group Inc., wrote in a research note this week. He cut his
second-quarter earnings per share  estimate  for Goldman Sachs to
$2 from $2.60.  GSIP, the fund run by Agus, sold 1.57 million of the 3.61
million Facebook shares it holds in two investment pools,
according to the filing. The IPO helped GSIP raise $59.6 million
and a greenshoe at the same price would add $8.9 million,
leaving GSIP with 1.8 million shares valued at $69 million.  Goldman Sachs’s non-U.S. clients, whose Facebook shares are
held in a Cayman Islands-based investment pool called FBDC
Investors Offshore Holdings LP, sold 20.9 million shares for
$795 million. A greenshoe at the same price would raise another
$119 million and leave the investor pool with 24.1 million
shares worth $914 million at $38 a share.  Michael DuVally , a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to
comment on the share sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 