-- Good Cholesterol May Not Lower Heart Risk, Study Suggests
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-05-17T15:44:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/good-cholesterol-may-not-lower-heart-risk-study-suggests.html
Raising good cholesterol, a goal
pursued by Merck & Co. and  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  as the next milestone
in cardiac care, may not cut heart attack risk, says a study
that challenges the development of drugs that may generate
billions of dollars in sales.  The report, in the U.K. medical journal  The Lancet , found
that people with a genetic condition that causes high HDL have
the same heart-attack risk as the general population. The
results come from a computer analysis of 20 studies.  The authors suggested the link found earlier between good
cholesterol and lower heart risk may come from more subtle
lifestyle factors tied to higher HDL levels. If so, it brings
into question the development of medicines such as Merck’s
anacetrapib, an HDL booster that  Tony Butler , a Barclay’s
Capital analyst in  New York , said on May 7 may generate $4
billion in peak revenue once approved.  “This will have a sobering effect, it would have to,”
said John LaMattina, a senior partner at PureTech Ventures and
former head of research and development at  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  “HDL has
always been a controversial area. You have a question that you
have to be willing to commit over a billion dollars in order to
get the answer, and that is a very daunting commitment.”  Scientists have said HDL works by sweeping the bad form of
the fatty substance known as LDL, or bad cholesterol, out of
arteries, reducing clogs. The Lancet study analyzed 20,913 heart
attack cases and 95,047 control subjects, the report said.  Not ‘Definitive’  Steven Nissen , the chief of cardiology at the  Cleveland
Clinic  in  Ohio , said The Lancet report runs counter to earlier
studies that have found people with naturally high levels of HDL
do have lower rates of heart disease.  “This study isn’t definitive,” Nissen said in a telephone
interview. “It doesn’t support the hypothesis, but it doesn’t
rule it out either. I remain cautiously optimistic.”  Merck is in the process of a 30,000-person trial studying
anacetrapib that’s slated to be completed in 2017, as part of
the final phase of testing normally required for U.S. marketing
approval. The company is racing Indianapolis-based Lilly to
market the new family of medicines.  Pamela Eisele, a spokeswoman for  Whitehouse Station , New
Jersey-based Merck, wrote in an e-mail that the company is
reviewing The Lancet paper.  Awaiting Results  “The mechanism for the possible cardiovascular benefit of
raising HDL cholesterol remains under investigation,” Eisele
said. “We await the results of our ongoing studies to learn
more about HDL and other lipid markers as targets of therapy.”  The treatment being developed by Lilly, called evacetrapib,
boosted HDL by as much as 129 percent and lowered bad
cholesterol as much as 36 percent, in a trial reported in
November at the American Heart Association meeting.  Lilly spokeswoman Christina D. Gaines said she couldn’t
immediately comment on what implications The Lancet study would
have on the company’s development efforts. She said the
drugmaker is scheduled to begin final-stage testing on its HDL
medicine in the second half of the year.  Nissen, the chairman for Lilly’s late-stage test of
evacetrapib, said the finding in The Lancet hasn’t changed plans
for studying the drug.  Blocking Molecule  Both Merck and Lilly’s drugs boost HDL by blocking a
molecule called CETP.  The Lancet study isn’t the first to question the
effectiveness of HDL medicines.  Roche Holding AG (ROG) , based in
 Basel ,  Switzerland , abandoned development of its experimental
HDL booster, dalcetrapib, after a late-stage study showed the
drug wasn’t providing a benefit. Abbott Laboratories’ drug
Niaspan also failed to show any benefit in reducing heart attack
and strokes in a study released last year.  The Lancet study’s authors said their data suggests there’s
no guarantee the drugs will make a difference.  “Interventions (lifestyle or pharmacological) that raise
plasma HDL cholesterol cannot be assumed ipso facto to lead to a
corresponding benefit” on heart risk, the authors, led by Sekar
Kathiresan, a researcher at  Massachusetts General Hospital  in
 Boston , wrote in their report.  Steve Humphries, a researcher at University College,
 London , wrote in an editorial accompanying the Lancet report
that research on good cholesterol’s effects on the heart needs
to continue, despite the finding.  “Even if HDL cholesterol concentration is not validated as
a causal factor, further investigation into the mechanisms of
HDL cholesterol and its function in coronary  heart disease  is
warranted,”  Humphries wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  