-- Greek Asset Sales Program to Be Delayed Months, Chief Says
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-05-17T10:46:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/greek-asset-sales-program-to-be-delayed-months-chief-says-1-.html
Greece ’s 50 billion euro ($63.6
billion) state-asset sales program, a key plank in securing
international funds from the European Union and  International
Monetary Fund , will be delayed by months as the country goes
back to the polls to choose a new government.  The Hellenic Republic Asset Development Fund said yesterday
its board decided to freeze all projects and won’t make any
binding decisions until the country holds elections on June 17.
That will immediately affect the timetable for the sale of the
nation’s gas company, a contract for a state lottery and the
lease of the IBC conference center, said Costas Mitropoulos,
chief executive officer of the fund.  “We had expected that the state lottery first of all, and
then IBC, and then the gas company DEPA, would be completed in
the month after the elections,” Mitropoulos said yesterday,
referring to the May 6 vote. “It will be definitely a couple of
months that we will be losing and that could have a serious
impact on the delivery of the program as a whole.”  Greece’s international lenders have already been critical
of the slow pace of asset sales, which are designed to pay down
debt. The European Commission said in March that the 50 billion-
euro figure “remains viable, though over a much longer horizon
than envisioned initially.” The target for end-2015 is to raise
19 billion euros.  The observers to the board representing the European Union
and the Euro area expressed their concern about the decision,
the fund said.  Investor List  Fourteen investors, including  Azerbaijan ’s Socar,  OAO
Gazprom (GAZP)  and  Italy ’s  ENI SpA (ENI)  and  Edison SpA (EDN) , are on the short-
list for the sale of the natural gas company and grid operator.
Nine groups have expressed interest in investing in the
development of the former Athens International Airport, while
Greek and Austrian companies are bidding for a tender to run and
operate state lotteries.  Such asset sales have long been troubled in Greece, subject
to political disputes, opposition from unions and complicated by
bureaucratic problems such as a lack of deeds for real estate.
The leader of the second-biggest party from the inconclusive May
6 elections, Alexis Tsipras, yesterday demanded all sales be
frozen. His party, Syriza, wants to cancel the terms of the 130
billion euro international rescue.  “The elections of course may result in a government that
would not wish to carry on with the privatization program, in
which case this decision is a wise decision,” Mitropoulos said
in a phone interview yesterday. “But then there will be no need
for a privatization fund.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  