-- Greece Aims to Clear Bank Funding By May 24 as ECB Loans Halted
-- B y   C h r i s t o s   Z i o t i s
-- 2012-05-17T17:13:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/greece-aims-to-clear-bank-funding-by-may-24-as-ecb-loans-halted.html
A Greek official said the nation
should clear a 18 billion-euro ($23 billion) capital boost for
its four biggest banks by May 24, paving the way for a return to
European Central Bank funding.  “I hope that all technical and legal issues will be
resolved up to next Thursday,” Panayotis Thomopoulos, head of
 Greece ’s bank recapitalization fund, said in a phone interview
today. “After that I can release the 18 billion euros, but it
takes a couple of days until the money will be disbursed.”  Greek banks, which were already battling with shrinking
deposits, were cut off yesterday by the ECB from direct
borrowing pending the recapitalization, as central bank chief
 Mario Draghi  signaled he won’t compromise on key principles to
keep the nation in the euro area.  Banks are relying on the  Bank of Greece ’s Emergency
Liquidity Assistance program for their funding needs, adding to
pressure on deposits as some politicians threaten to scrap the
nation’s bailout agreement in the wake of an inconclusive
election on May 6. A new vote is scheduled for June 17.  Thomopolous said that while the Hellenic Financial
Stability Fund received a 25 billion-euro first tranche of
bonds, issued by the European Financial Stability Facility, to
recapitalize the banks last month, the legal and technical
issues have prevented the HFSF passing the bonds onto the banks.
He declined to elaborate on those issues.  Stability Fund  “In the run-up to the June election there could be more
bad news and speculation,” said Alexander Kyrtsis, a European
bank specialist at UBS AG in  London . “It’s a precarious
situation. It could become challenging to instill a sense of
security among depositors given the political noise.”  Greek bank deposits dropped about 23 billion euros in the
nine months through March, or about 13 percent, to about 160
billion euros, central bank data show. Greek President Karolos
Papoulias said on May 14 that about 700 million euros had been
withdrawn, without specifying over how many days.  “The reaction of the average depositor is expected given
the failure to form a government,” said George Aronis, a
general manager at Alpha Bank SA and member of the lender’s
board. “New elections won’t be held for four weeks and the
polarization of the electorate makes a permanent solution in the
immediate future difficult.”  ECB Fund Access  The recapitalization fund will disburse funds earmarked
from Greece’s 130 billion-euro second bailout from the European
Union and  International Monetary Fund . The ECB can only lend to
sound banks and therefore won’t allow undercapitalized
institutions to access its refinancing operations, a euro-area
official said yesterday.  “The bigger issue of euro membership goes above and beyond
the issue of the levels of capital,” said Daragh Quinn, an
analyst at Nomura International in London. “Deposit outflows
have gone on for several years.”  Greece’s four biggest banks posted a combined loss of 27.9
billion euros for 2011 from losses arising out of Greece’s
sovereign debt restructuring, the biggest ever.  The HFSF will get the second 25 billion-euro tranche of
EFSF bonds for the recapitalization in September, when the banks
will need to have raised their core tier 1  capital ratios  to 9
percent, Thomopoulos said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christos Ziotis in Athens at 
 cziotis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  