-- GT Advanced Developing Silicon Carbide Amid Solar Slump
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2012-05-17T15:03:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/gt-advanced-developing-silicon-carbide-amid-solar-slump.html
GT Advanced Technologies Inc. (GTAT) , a U.S.
supplier to solar manufacturers and energy-efficient lighting
companies, will offer furnaces that make silicon carbide
crystals next year as orders for photovoltaic equipment slow.  GT Advanced plans to boost research and development at
least 50 percent this year to more than $65 million, Chief
Executive Officer Tom Gutierrez said today on a conference call.
Sales will climb more than 6 percent to $925 million to $975
million, and the Merrimack, New Hampshire-based company’s
backlog will fall to about $1.1 billion by the end of the year
from $1.8 billion on March 31.  GT Advanced is seeking to diversify its product line as a
global glut of solar panels reduces demand for its systems that
make polysilicon and photovoltaic wafers, Gutierrez said.  “We do not believe that there will be a rebound in PV
equipment demand” this year, he said. “Diversification beyond
solar has been key to GT’s success.”  About 25 percent of GT Advanced’s sales came from the solar
industry in fiscal 2012, which ended March 31, down from almost
100 percent the year before, Gutierrez said. The company is
shifting its reporting schedule now from fiscal to calendar
years.  Silicon carbide is a durable material that is used in
bulletproof vests, car brakes and electronic devices.  “There are a handful of merchant silicon carbide suppliers
in the market today,” Gutierrez said on the conference call.
“But much like the polysilicon and sapphire markets before we
entered them, we believe there is an opportunity to drive lower
prices through a viable, high-volume, low-cost crystal growth
solution.”  GT Advance declined 8.3 percent to $4.88 at 11:02 a.m. in
 New York , the lowest intraday since December 2009. The shares
had fallen 27 percent this year through yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  