-- Gulf Keystone Sues Over Blog Posts That Moved Shares
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-05-17T12:41:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/gulf-keystone-sues-blogger-for-internet-posts-about-share-sale.html
Gulf Keystone Petroleum Ltd. (GKP)  got an
injunction blocking a man from writing about the company after
his comments on Internet message boards and Twitter caused its
shares to fall.  Spencer Freeman’s posts about a deal with  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
and a potential share sale were “fantasy,” according to court
documents. The result was that Gulf Keystone’s “share price
collapsed” and it had to spend time “dealing with disgruntled
investors and press inquiries,” the company’s lawyers said.  Freeman agreed to a court order not to write false or
derogatory posts and, as a result, Gulf Keystone will drop its
May 11 lawsuit against him for defamation and malicious
falsehood, the company’s lawyer Matthew Nicklin said at a
hearing in  London  today.  The company, which has wells in northern  Iraq , said in a
May 10 statement it would take legal action to prevent
“unfounded speculation” on websites and social-media sites
about the possibility it would raise money by selling equity at
160 pence a share. Gulf Keystone began London trading on May 1
at 242 pence and traded  as high as 450 pence  in February.  An account on Twitter Inc.’s micro blogging service in the
name of Spencer Freeman has been deactivated. The user wrote
about a potential placement of new Gulf Keystone shares, and an
unannounced takeover bid by Exxon, according a history of the
posts on social-media research site operated by  Topsy Labs Inc .
A “Spencer PR Freeman” also commented about the company on
investor message boards.  ‘Contempt of Court’  Freeman declined to comment outside court.  “If you break this undertaking, that’s contempt of
court,” Judge David Bean warned him. “The other side can apply
for an order committing you to prison.”  Gulf Keystone said in the May 10 statement there were no
plans for an institutional fundraising.  The company, based in  Bermuda  and listed in the U.K., has
been the subject of merger speculation in British newspapers
after finding what it said was as much as 10 billion barrels of
oil in the Shaikan field in the Kurdistan region of Iraq. It has
promised to reward employees with a total of 10 million new
shares if half the company or its assets were sold. Chief
Executive Officer Todd Kozel would get 300,000 shares in a so-
called exit event.  Jane Marsden, a lawyer for Gulf Keystone, didn’t
immediately comment on the injunction when contacted by e-mail.
 Alan Jeffers , an Exxon spokesman, declined to comment.  Anonymous Bloggers  Shares of the company rose less than 1 percent, to 192.5
pence in London trading at 1:36 p.m.  Companies in the U.K. can obtain court orders forcing
websites to reveal the details of anonymous bloggers who post
defamatory material. In 2010, oil firm  Nighthawk Energy Plc (HAWK)  said
it had won a ruling forcing websites Interactive Investor and
 ADVFN  to provide information about comments that were
“extremely damaging to the company and its reputation.”  Christopher Hamilton , a spokesman for the U.K. Financial
Services Authority, said the regulator was aware of Spencer
Freeman’s comments. He declined to comment further.  The case is: Gulf Keystone Petroleum Limited v. Spencer
Freeman,  High Court  of Justice, Queen’s  Bench Division ,
HQ12D01817.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  