-- Time Warner, PTO Backlog, Skechers: Intellectual Property
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-05-17T12:26:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/time-warner-cable-pto-backlog-skechers-intellectual-property.html
Viacom Inc. (VIAB) , the owner of  MTV , Comedy
Central and the Paramount film studio, agreed to resolve a legal
dispute with  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , allowing cable customers to
see Viacom shows on devices such as Apple Inc.’s iPad.  “All of Viacom’s programming will now be available to Time
Warner Cable subscribers for in-home viewing via Internet
protocol-enabled devices such as iPads,” the companies said
yesterday in a  joint statement  posted on Viacom’s website.  Viacom sued in 2011, seeking an order blocking Time Warner
Cable from distributing Viacom programming on portable
electronic devices such as the iPad. The company claimed that
Time Warner’s application to allow downloading of Viacom’s shows
violated contractual rights that define and limit Time Warner
Cable’s distribution of its programs, as well as intellectual
property and other rights.  Time Warner Cable also filed suit, asking for a ruling from
the court that its contract with Viacom allowed the distribution
of content on the devices.  Last August, New York-based Viacom resolved a similar
lawsuit against  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , which had been
distributing Viacom’s programming on the iPad. The companies
said Cablevision could continue to run Viacom’s programs on the
devices.  The Time Warner Cable case is Time Warner Cable Inc. v.
Viacom International, 11-cv-002376, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan). The Viacom case is
Viacom International Inc. v. Time Warner Cable Inc., 11-
cv-02387, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan)  Copyright  Google’s Request for Post-Trial Ruling Rejected by Oracle Judge  Google Inc. (GOOG)  lost its bid after the first phase of a federal
court trial over the Java programming language for a ruling that
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  failed to properly register copyrights, according
to a court filing.  For more copyright news, click here.  Patent  Facebook Seeks Dismissal of Yahoo Claims About Patents  Facebook Inc. (FB)  asked a federal judge to dismiss  Yahoo!
Inc. (YHOO) ’s claims that two  Facebook  patents can’t be enforced,
according to a court filing.  The social networking company, responding to allegations
last month that it bought tainted patents as the basis for a
countersuit, said Yahoo’s claims about the patents are false and
and should be dropped.  Yesterday’s filing in federal court in San Francisco is the
latest in a patent dispute between the two companies that began
March 12 when Yahoo filed a lawsuit accusing Facebook of
infringing patents covering functions critical to websites,
including Internet advertising, information sharing and privacy.  Facebook countersued, alleging Yahoo infringed 10 patents
through its home page, Flickr photo-sharing service and site
ads. Yahoo, based in Sunnyvale,  California , said Facebook bought
some of the patents to file a retaliatory lawsuit against it.  The Web portal company alleged that two of the 10 Facebook
patents can’t be enforced because a man listed on one patent
application as an inventor wasn’t named as such when the patent
was issued, and inventors on the other patent made false
representations to the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office about
earlier inventions to get it issued.  Dana Lengkeek, a Yahoo spokesman, didn’t immediately return
an e-mail seeking comment on Facebook’s filing.  The case is Yahoo! Inc. v. Facebook, 12-cv-01212, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Jose).  Patent Chief Says the Agency’s Backlog Is Lowest in Years  David Kappos, the director of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, testified yesterday before Congress that the PTO’s
backlog is the lowest in years. In his testimony, he said that
the backlog for utility patents is 640,491.  Kappos also said that the time needed to review patent
applications is still approximately 34 months.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Adidas Sues Sneaker Manufacturer, Retailer Over Trademark  Adidas AG (ADS) , the second-largest sporting-goods maker, sued
World Industries Inc. and  Big 5 Sporting Goods Corp. (BGFV)  on May 15
for trademark infringement and unfair competition.  The suit claims that Costa Mesa, California-based World
Industries manufactures a sneaker with a “W” logo that too
closely resembles the three-stripe logo Adidas has trademarked.  Adidas also alleges that Big 5, a 406-store retail chain
specializing in athletic clothing, shoes and equipment,
infringed its trademark by both advertising and selling the
shoe.  The suit, filed in federal court in Portland, Oregon, where
Adidas has its U.S. headquarters, also alleges trademark
dilution and seeks both monetary damages and injunctive relief.  Scott Chantos, president of World Industries parent I.E.
Distribution, said his company’s sneaker is distinct from
Adidas. The shoe at issue “is a new model” that depicts the
“W” used by World Industries for years, he said.  Chantos, who joined the company in March, said Adidas had
complained to Big 5 after the retailer advertised World
Industries’ sneaker. The ad had relied on a sample sneaker,
Chantos said, which differs from the final product. On the
actual shoe, “in our opinion, it’s clearly a W,” said Chantos,
adding that “we cap the top of our W so it looks like a
pitchfork. And one of our logos is a devil holding a
pitchfork.”  A message left at the El Segundo, California, headquarters
of Big 5 seeking comment wasn’t returned. A press spokesman for
Adidas didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  Stephen Feldman, of counsel in the Portland office of
Perkins Coie LLP, and partner R. Charles Henn Jr. and associate
Charles Hooker III of the Atlanta office of Kilpatrick Townsend
& Stockton LLP, along with  San Francisco  associate Tali Alban,
filed the complaint for Adidas.  The case is Adidas America Inc. v. World Industries Inc.
3:12-cv-00859- U.S. District Court for the District of Oregon
(Portland).  For more trademark news, click here.  Settlements  Activision Drops Claims Against EA Ahead of ‘Warfare’ Trial  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  dropped a $400 million claim
against rival video-game publisher  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)  that was
part of a lawsuit scheduled for trial May 29 with the developers
of “Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2”.  “Activision and Electronic Arts have decided to put this
matter behind them,” Activision lawyer  Beth Wilkinson  said
yesterday after a hearing in Los Angeles Superior Court.  The settlement removes Electronic Arts from a trial that
pits Activision against the former heads of its Infinity Ward
studio who created the billion-dollar “Call of Duty”
franchise. Activision fired the developers, Jason West and  Vince
Zampella , in 2010, alleging they plotted with Electronic Arts to
leave Activision and set up a new independent studio.  Activision had accused Electronic Arts of disrupting
Infinity Ward by trying to lure away the two developers while
they still had two years left on their contract. West and
Zampella sued Activision after they were fired and seek more
than $1 billion in damages.  The companies will ask the court to dismiss the claims,
Wilkinson said, declining to comment further on any settlement
terms. Richard Kendall, a lawyer for Electronic Arts, also
declined to comment.  Activision, based in Santa Monica, California, the biggest
U.S. publisher of video games, had added Electronic Arts in its
counterclaims to a lawsuit brought by West and Zampella.  Wilkinson, who was hired May 10 by Activision as its new
lead lawyer, asked California Superior Court Judge Elihu Berle
at a hearing yesterday to postpone trial for 30 days so she can
get up to speed. Berle yesterday denied that request.  The case is West v. Activision, SC107041, California
Superior Court (Los Angeles County).  For more, click here.  Trade  WTO Reverses Ruling Finding U.S. Tuna Labels Too Restrictive  World Trade Organization appellate judges have reversed
rulings that found “dolphin-safe” labels required on tuna sold
in the U.S. are overly trade-restrictive and don’t discriminate
against Mexican tuna products.  The judges ruled yesterday that the U.S. labeling
provisions mean Mexican tuna is treated less favorably than U.S.
tuna, though the measures don’t limit trade more than necessary
to fulfill “legitimate” objectives. Mexican yellow-fin tuna
sales to the U.S. have been curbed since 1991 because the
Commerce Department won’t label the fish “dolphin-safe” amid
complaints that the fishing techniques used by Mexico injure
dolphins.  The U.S., which along with Mexico appealed the initial
Sept. 15 ruling, should “bring its measure into conformity with
its obligations,” WTO Appellate Body judges in Geneva said in
their 153-page  report .  The WTO’s decision “confirms that the fishing methods used
by the Mexican fleet responsibly meet the highest international
standards” for protection of marine life, according to a
statement from the Embassy of Mexico in  Washington .  For more, click here.  Advertising  Skechers U.S.A. Inc. (SKX)  agreed to pay $45 million to resolve
U.S. and state allegations it deceived customers into believing
its Shape-ups athletic shoes will help them lose weight and get
in shape.  Skechers, based in Manhattan Beach, California, also made
false claims in advertising for its Resistance Runner, Tone-ups
and Toners shoes, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission said
yesterday in a statement.  “Skechers’ unfounded claims went beyond stronger and more
toned muscles,” said  David Vladeck , Director of the FTC’s
Bureau of Consumer Protection, in the statement. “The company
even made claims about weight loss and cardiovascular health.”  The agency has been critical of how companies have marketed
toning shoes. In September, Reebok International Ltd. agreed to
pay $25 million after FTC accused the company of making false
advertising claims about its version of the shoes.  Skechers “vigorously” denies the allegations, said David
Weinberg, the Company’s chief financial officer, in a statement.  “Skechers could not ignore the exorbitant cost and endless
distraction of several years spent defending multiple lawsuits
in multiple courts across the country,” Weinberg said.  The settlement relates to investigations that involved the
FTC, along with attorneys general from 44 states and the
 District of Columbia , according to the agency.  The FTC will receive $40 million from Skechers while the
states will get $5 million, most of which will be refunded to
customers, Vladeck told reporters yesterday at a Washington news
conference. The company also will pay $5 million in attorneys’
fees, according to a Skechers statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  