-- IMF Asks Belarus to Embark on Policy Overhaul to Qualify for Aid
-- B y   A l i a k s a n d r   K u d r y t s k i
-- 2012-05-17T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/imf-asks-belarus-to-embark-on-policy-overhaul-to-qualify-for-aid.html
Belarus must commit to a “consistent
strategy based on stabilization and reform” to secure financial
aid, the  International Monetary Fund  said after completing a
mission to the former Soviet republic.  “Program negotiations would require agreement among all
policy makers -- including at the highest level -- to adopt a
comprehensive package to restore stability and to embark on the
path of deep structural reform,” the Washington-based lender
said in a report on its website today.  A Russian-led $3 billion bailout helped the nation emerge
from last year’s balance-of-payments crisis, with the government
also ceding ownership of its gas-pipeline network to OAO Gazprom
for $2.5 billion. The central bank raised the refinancing rate
12 times last year to contain inflation that soared to 108.7
percent as the ruble depreciated 64 percent against the dollar,
its worst drop since 1999.  Belarus wants to borrow $3.5 billion from the IMF to
refinance its existing debt. The country will have the means to
repay its outstanding IMF debt even without the new loan,
central bank Chairman Nadezhda Ermakova  said May 3.  “Belarus’ capacity to repay has become strained due to a
sharp increase in debt in recent years and policies should be
geared toward enhancing it,” the IMF said in the report. The
country’s request for a new credit arrangement, submitted in May
2011, “remains active,” it said.  The east European nation’s external debt has surged to 61.4
percent of gross domestic product last year from 25 percent in
2008, the IMF said. The lender projects that Belarus’s debt
relative to economic output will “only gradually” slide to 56
percent of GDP by the end of 2017.  The government’s plans to bolster growth and raise wages
may re-ignite inflation and “call into question medium-term
viability and capacity to service external debt,” according to
the IMF.  “The authorities have been doing most of the right things,
but cannot commit to give up growth and wage targets that are
inconsistent with stability,” the IMF said. “The authorities
have made progress in establishing stability. However, risks
remain.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aliaksandr Kudrytski in Minsk, Belarus at 
 akudrytski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Langley at 
 alangley1@bloomberg.net  