-- Index of U.S. Leading Economic Indicators Falls 0.1%
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-05-17T14:28:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/index-of-u-s-leading-economic-indicators-unexpectedly-falls.html
The  index (SPX)  of U.S. leading indicators
unexpectedly fell in April, indicating the pace of economic
expansion may cool.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months decreased 0.1 percent after a 0.3 percent
gain in March, the New York-based group said today. Economists
projected the gauge would rise by 0.1 percent, according to the
median of 49 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  American employers added jobs at the slowest pace in six
months in April, restraining the  consumer spending  that accounts
for 70 percent of the world’s largest economy. Higher claims for
 unemployment benefits , a decline in building permits and weaker
 consumer confidence  contributed to the decline.  “The economy is in a midst of a soft patch, but I don’t
think it’s going to be anything worse than that,”  Ryan Sweet , a
senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,
Pennsylvania, said before the report. “Economic growth this
quarter will come right around where it came in last quarter.”  Other reports today showed applications for  unemployment
insurance  were little changed last week, a measure of consumer
confidence fell to an almost four-month low and manufacturing in
the Philadelphia area unexpectedly contracted in May.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.2 percent to
1,322.19 at 10:23 a.m. in  New York . Yields on 10-year Treasury
notes fell to 1.75 percent from 1.76 percent late yesterday.  Estimates for the leading index in the Bloomberg survey of
economists ranged from a drop of 0.3 percent to an increase of
0.3 percent.  Contributors to Decline  Four of the 10 indicators in the Conference Board’s leading
index contributed to the decrease and one was unchanged. The
rest increased.  The index of coincident indicators, a gauge of current
economic activity, increased 0.2 percent for a second month.  The coincident index tracks payrolls, incomes, sales and
production -- the measures used by the  National Bureau of
Economic Research  to determine the beginning and end of U.S.
recessions.  The gauge of lagging indicators increased 0.5 percent after
a 0.3 percent gain.  Economic growth in the U.S. advanced at a 2.2 percent
annual pace in the first three months of 2012, down from 3
percent the prior quarter. The economy will probably expand 2.2
percent from April to June, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg from May 4 to May 9.  Slowing labor-market gains may make it harder for consumer
spending to accelerate from last quarter’s pace, which was the
fastest in more than a year. Payrolls grew by 115,000 in April,
the fewest in six months.  Stocks Slide  Stocks have slumped with the weaker economic data and the
risk  Europe ’s debt crisis might impede growth. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index fell 7 percent through yesterday after reaching
a 2012 high on April 2.  Positive news for the economy comes from factory floors.
The  Institute for Supply Management ’s manufacturing index
 climbed  to 54.8 in April, the highest level in almost a year, as
orders picked up. Readings greater than 50 signal growth. Demand
for autos is also driving production and sales.  “We’ve surveyed all of our business leaders in the last
couple of weeks, and the outlook is for continued steady growth,
slow but steady growth, across the economy and customer base,”
 Peter McCausland , chairman and chief executive officer of Airgas
Inc., the largest distributor of industrial gases, said during a
May 4 earnings call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  