-- India Said to Consider Selling Dollars Directly to Refiners
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2012-05-17T04:34:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/india-said-to-consider-selling-dollars-directly-to-refiners-1-.html
The  Reserve Bank  of  India  is
considering selling dollars directly to oil importers to reduce
exchange-rate volatility after the rupee fell to a record low
yesterday, a central bank official said.  The recent widening of swings in the local currency may
last only for a short period and will ease once global markets
stabilize, the official said, asking not to be identified,
citing central bank policy. India buys abroad 80 percent of the
oil it uses and crude shipments accounted for 32 percent of the
country’s $489 billion import bill in the year through March.  The rupee slid 1.3 percent in Mumbai yesterday and touched
a record low of 54.5225 per dollar, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. A 0.4 percent advance today pared its loss this
quarter to 6.3 percent, still  Asia ’s worst currency performance.
The central bank may offer dollars to  oil companies  at its daily
 reference rate  for the local currency, according to B. Mukherjee, director of finance at Hindustan Petroleum Corp.,
India’s third-largest state-run oil refiner.  “The Reserve Bank may sell dollars to importers at its
reference rate whenever the rupee falls sharply, and this will
reduce dollar demand in the market,” Mumbai-based Mukherjee
said in an interview. “This has happened in the past and could
again happen in the near future.”  The rupee’s one-month implied volatility, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, rose 302 basis
points, or 3.02 percentage points, since April 30 to 12.52
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net ;
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  