-- Intercontinental Says SEC Fails to Act on Swaps Clearing
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-05-17T19:53:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/intercontinental-says-sec-failing-to-act-on-client-swap-clearing.html
Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE) , owner
of the world’s largest credit-default swap clearinghouse, will
petition the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to allow
asset managers to clear trades in the $26.5 trillion market.  “The SEC’s failure to act has disadvantaged the buy-side
and investors relative to the dealers,” Peter Barsoom, chief
operating officer of ICE Clear Credit, Intercontinental’s U.S.-
based credit swap clearinghouse, said today at a Futures
Industry Association conference in New York. “We’ve been doing
everything we can to put pressure on the SEC. We will start in
the next several days a petition with the buy-side for the SEC”
to approve rules needed for so-called client clearing, he said.  Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC has authority over credit
swaps on individual companies, while the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission will oversee credit-swap indexes.
 Intercontinental Exchange  asked the regulators last year to work
together to allow investors who use both types of swaps to
combine their trades to reduce margin requirements, known as
portfolio margining, Barsoom said.  “The time for the SEC to act is now,” he said. “We
haven’t had as much traction with the SEC as we’d like.”  Judith Burns, a spokeswoman for the SEC, declined to
comment.  Little Incentive  ICE Clear Credit began offering clearing to non-dealer
firms in December 2009 and had processed about $24.7 billion of
credit-swap trades as of May 11, according to the company. That
compares with $30 trillion of trades the company has cleared
overall, 99 percent of which were between dealers, Barsoom
said today.  The buy-side clearing at ICE Clear Credit only involves
index trades now, not so-called single-name contracts on
individual companies or countries, said  Lee Underwood , a
spokesman. Hedge funds and asset managers have little incentive
to clear under the existing structure, which requires them to
post margin separately on single-name swaps in the SEC account
and on the index trades in the CFTC account.  Asset managers and hedge funds are not yet required to
clear trades under Dodd-Frank, with the mandate expected to be
in place by next year.  ‘Big Impact’  If different market rules from the two regulators lead to
pricing differentials between single-name and index contracts
“that is a big issue,”  James Hill , a managing director at
Morgan Stanley, said during the panel discussion. “It could
have a very big impact on the market.”  Intercontinental  asked  the SEC in October to allow users of
both single-name and index credit swaps to hold both trades in
one account that would be overseen by the CFTC. That would allow
offsetting trades to be netted, reducing the risk of the overall
position and thus cutting the amount of margin that has to be
pledged to the  clearinghouse .  Investors in the market often buy swaps on an index and
then sell them on the individual members, or vice versa, to
profit from outsized price differences.  “It’s really one market that people trade together,”
Barsoom said.  The SEC wants Intercontinental to offer its users a choice
between holding all their positions in an SEC account or a CFTC
account, Barsoom said in an interview after the panel
discussion. “No one wants that choice,” he said. Either the
SEC doesn’t understand what market users want “or this is a
political issue with SEC guarding their turf,” he said. Swaps
users prefer CFTC accounts in part because they provide better
protection for collateral, he said.  Fund Support  Intercontinental’s request is supported by the Managed
Funds Association, a trade and lobbying group for  hedge funds ,
it said in a  letter  to the SEC and CFTC in December. The group
“is very concerned that customers, including many MFA members,
will not benefit from the same capital relief and access to
clearing” that dealers will receive, it said in the letter.  The petition requesting the SEC to make a decision on
portfolio margining was approved by ICE Clear Credit’s buy-side
committee, Barsoom said. The company doesn’t release what funds
are represented on that committee, Underwood said. A draft is
being written now and will be sent around for signatures from
asset managers and hedge funds, Barsoom said.  “We just want the SEC to approve it,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 