-- Intuit Quarterly Sales Forecast Misses Some Estimates
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-05-17T22:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/intuit-quarterly-sales-forecast-misses-some-estimates.html
Intuit Inc. (INTU) , a provider of tax and
personal-finance software, forecast fiscal fourth-quarter sales
that missed some estimates as new money-managing products may
not attract as many small-business customers as expected.  Revenue in the quarter ending July 31 will rise 9 percent
to 12 percent to $647 million to $662 million, the  Mountain
View , California-based maker of TurboTax and QuickBooks software
said today in a statement. Analysts on average predicted sales
of $653.7 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Brad Smith  seeks to reduce Intuit’s
reliance on tax-preparation products by transforming the company
into a provider of websites, services and programs to manage
money, such as its Mint.com website and QuickBooks Online
financial software. Sales of online tax software -- the
company’s largest category -- also lagged behind this season as
more customers defected to competitors such as  H&R Block Inc. (HRB)   “The TurboTax online business was not as strong as
hoped,” Raimo Lenschow, an analyst at  Barclays Capital , said in
a research note to clients. “We saw an ongoing deceleration of
the business as the tax season progressed. This should trigger
some questions -- a factor here could be the aggressive pricing
from Intuit’s competitor, H&R Block.”  Excluding some items, Intuit said earnings will range from
5 cents to 7 cents a share, compared with the average prediction
of 6 cents.  Profit Tops Estimates  Sales in the fiscal third quarter rose 5 percent to $1.95
billion, matching the average analyst estimate. Net income
increased 6.7 percent to $734 million, or $2.42 a share, beating
expectations.  Intuit was little changed in late trading after the results
were released.  The shares  fell 1.3 percent to $54.41 at the  New
York  close and have risen 3.5 percent this year.  Unit sales of TurboTax Desktop, a packaged version of the
tax-preparation software, declined 3 percent to 5.88 million in
the tax season through April 18, Intuit said last month. The
online version increased 11 percent to 17.5 million units.  Sales of TurboTax versions that users pay for increased 7
percent from a year earlier, a slowdown from the 8 percent that
Intuit reported in March. While the company increased spending
on the product in the third quarter -- adding free tax
consultants, for example -- Smith said he wasn’t happy with the
results.  ‘Not Pleased’  “Many TurboTax customers weren’t aware of the offering,”
he said, referring to the free agents. “I’m not pleased with
the return on that investment. We did not deliver the best tax
season we could.”  Intuit expects revenue for consumer tax products to grow
about 11 percent for the year. Annual revenue will be in the
range of $4.21 billion to $4.22 billion, the company said.  Revenue for QuickBooks Online and QuickBooks Enterprise
financial software rose 29 percent from a year earlier. That
growth may continue as Intuit relies on offerings other than its
tax-preparation services, according to  Peter Goldmacher , an
analyst at Cowen & Co. in  San Francisco .  Intuit is “like a diversified retailer that can
effectively grow low-end and high-end businesses by manipulating
products, accessories, prices, marketing campaigns and
promotions en masse,” Goldmacher said in a research note to
clients. “Intuit has the ability to capture extensive user
behavior information that we believe will allow it to cost-
effectively personalize these levers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  