-- Lira Gains First Day in 5 on Tighter Policy, Fed’s Stimulus Hint
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-05-17T08:23:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/lira-gains-first-day-in-5-on-tighter-policy-fed-s-stimulus-hint.html
The lira rallied for the first time
in five days on tighter liquidity and as the U.S. Federal
Reserve’s signal that further easing remains an option bolstered
investors’ appetite for emerging-market assets.  The lira appreciated 0.4 percent to 1.8192 per dollar at
10:33 a.m. in Istanbul. The  yield  on benchmark two-year debt
rose for the fourth time in five days, up four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 9.57 percent.  The Turkish central bank offered to lend 2 billion liras
($1.01 billion) for a third day in its one-week repurchase
agreement auctions, compared with the 1 billion-lira minimum and
6 billion-lira maximum it can lend. Several members of the
 Federal Open Market Committee  said new actions could be
necessary if “downside risks to the forecast became great
enough,” according to the minutes of the committee’s April
meeting released yesterday in  Washington .  “We can call this policy as semi-exceptional days,” Ercan Erguzel, an economist at  Denizbank AS (DENIZ) , said in e-mailed
comments. “Things still look turbulent.”  The central bank varies its funding rate daily, keeping
borrowing costs within a 5.75 percent to 11.5 percent interest-
rate corridor introduced last year. The days it refrains from
lending at 5.75 percent are termed “exceptional days.”  HSBC Bank Plc exited its short dollar, long lira trade as
 Greece ’s political and debt crisis deepened, the lender said. It
opened a short dollar, long lira position at 1.81 with a target
of 1.74 on March 22, Murat Toprak, London-based head of the
bank’s currency strategy for  Europe , Middle East and  Africa ,
said in an e-mailed note dated May 16. The lender closed the
position at 1.83 for a nominal loss of 1.1 percent.  The lira will probably to weaken to 1.91 per dollar by the
end of the year, currency forwards showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  