-- Iran Crude to Japan Said to Face Blocks After Court Order
-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-05-17T11:39:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/iran-oil-cargoes-to-japan-said-to-face-blocks-after-court-ruling.html
Iranian oil shipments  to  Japan  may be
blocked after the bank handling payments on the transactions was
ordered by a U.S. court to freeze assets belonging to the
Persian Gulf nation, according to two refinery officials with
knowledge of the matter.  The National Iranian Oil Co., the country’s state-run oil
company, will stop Japanese refiners from picking up cargoes
until it can find alternative ways to access payments received
through accounts at the Bank of Tokyo unit of  Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc. (8306) , the officials said, declining to be
identified because of company policies. All of Japan’s purchases
of Iranian crude are handled through the unit, they said.  A district court in New York told Mitsubishi UFJ this month
to freeze at least $2.6 billion of Iranian assets held at the
bank, Tomohiro Kosaka, a Tokyo-based spokesman for Mitsubishi
UFJ, said today. The court found that  Iran  was involved in a
1983 explosion in  Beirut  that killed more than 200 U.S. Marines.
The U.S. and European Union are set to start sanctions in July
to pressure Iran over its nuclear program, which they say is
aimed at producing nuclear weapons.  A person answering the phone at NIOC’s Singapore office
said no one was immediately available to comment on the court
ruling.  Motion of Complaint  Mitsubishi UFJ filed a petition of objection yesterday to
the  New York  court, said Shinya Matsumoto, a spokesman for the
lender in Tokyo. The petition said freezing Iranian assets would
affect bank accounts in Japan.  The Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, which oversees
the country’s energy security, is discussing the freeze of
Iranian assets with other agencies, including finance, to find
ways to continue Iranian imports, said a government official who
declined to be identified.  Further supply from Iran depends on how the second-biggest
producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
will weigh the risk of not recovering proceeds from oil sales
against increasing crude stockpiles in the country, said one of
the two refiners.  Much of the unsold March production ended up in onshore and
floating storage in April. Estimates for floating storage now
range from 20 million barrels to 35 million barrels, compared
with 8 million barrels in March, the  International Energy Agency 
said. An additional 20 million barrels to 25 million barrels has
reportedly been stored in onshore facilities in recent months,
the agency said.  Payment Terms  Iran, which typically provides a 30 day payment window
after loading cargoes, may give Japan a period of grace for
crude oil payments, the refiner official said, citing Iran’s
past flexibility over payment terms to  India .  When Indian importers were unable to pay on time because of
sanctions, Iran kept supplying them even as they amassed $5
billion in unpaid invoices.  Iran, which is facing four sets of UN sanctions, says its
nuclear project is for peaceful, civilian purposes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuji Okada in  Tokyo  at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  