-- Liverpool’s Ayre Says Team Must Look Beyond Past Glories
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-05-18T11:42:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/liverpool-s-ayre-says-soccer-team-must-look-beyond-past-glories.html
Liverpool is looking for a new coach
who can return the 18-time English soccer champion to  Europe ’s
elite because the club can’t “live forever on the past
glories,” Managing Director  Ian Ayre  said.  U.S.-based owner Fenway Sports Group two days ago ended
 Kenny Dalglish ’s second spell as manager of the Premier League
club after 16 months. The team is seeking a coach capable of
leading a challenge against soccer’s best, Ayre said in a
telephone interview yesterday. Wigan said Liverpool has been
given permission to speak with its manager  Roberto Martinez .  Liverpool, considered one of the sport’s biggest names with
five European Cups and 18 English championships, failed to
qualify for the elite  Champions League  for a third straight
year. It was 37 points behind champion  Manchester City  in eighth
place, its worst English league finish since 1994. Last year,
 Manchester United  overtook it with a 19th league title.  Principal owner  John Henry  and chairman  Tom Werner  funded
100 million pounds ($158 million) in spending on new players in
an attempt to push the club to a minimum target of fourth place.
Dalglish failed and was relieved of his post even though the
Reds in February won the League Cup, the team’s first trophy in
six years. It also lost this month’s F.A. Cup final.  “It doesn’t matter how many cups you win,” Ayre said.
“Ultimately you’ll fail, because if you don’t have that
sustainable revenue stream that comes from playing at the
highest level it will be more and more difficult to compete.”  ‘Dark and Murky’  Ayre said the club has been consulting “senior people in
the industry” about candidates to become Liverpool’s fourth
manager in the past two years. He declined to reveal names on
the shortlist, saying the advice was being solicited because
soccer “can be a dark and murky game.”  Wigan chairman Dave Whelan said yesterday that he gave
Liverpool permission to speak with Martinez after being
contacted by the Anfield club. Ayre said he’s received
unsolicited calls from agents putting forward clients and some
of those would be added to those already under consideration.  Liverpool today made an approach to speak to Swansea
manager Brendan Rodgers, who turned down the opportunity,
Swansea said in a statement on its website.  Liverpool already has a structure planned under which the
new coach will operate, Ayre said. It won’t include a director
of football with the same level of control to negotiate
transfers and player salaries that Frenchman Damien Comolli had
before being fired in April.  The new manager will be provided with funds to strengthen
the team, Ayre said.  “There’s no point in having a plan, a process to try and
find the right manager, if you’re not prepared to invest to
support him,” he said.  Departures  Dalglish’s departure came after senior executives including
Comolli, head of medicine Dr. Peter Bruckner and head of
communications Ian Cotton lost their jobs. Ayre, who was
promoted to managing director following FSG’s takeover in
October 2010, said he’s ignored speculation that he’ll be next
to go. He said he recently signed a new contract and is
recruiting replacements. A new head of communications will be
named next week, he added.  Henry and Werner, whose group also owns Major League
Baseball’s Boston Red Sox, said they knew very little about
soccer when they took control of Liverpool. The club’s banks
forced a sale following the failure of former owners  George Gillett  and  Tom Hicks  to refinance a 300-million pound loan used
to buy and operate the team.  The changes come because FSG has become “far better
qualified to have a view on the structure and the process going
forward,” Ayre said.  Whoever replaces Dalglish will face a challenge winning
over the fans.  Roy Hodgson , who on May 1 was named England
manager, lasted six months before being fired because of the
team’s poor performance and rising supporter opposition. They
chanted for Dalglish, who’d become a favorite after winning six
league titles as a player and the club’s last three
championships during his first spell as manager.  Following Dalglish “is always going to be difficult,”
Ayre said. “But that shouldn’t stop anyone coming and that
shouldn’t stop us choosing anyone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  