-- J.C. Penney Swaps Erase 3 Years of Progress: Corporate Finance
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-05-17T20:45:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/j-c-penney-swaps-erase-3-years-of-progress-corporate-finance.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP) ’s creditworthiness is
back where it was three years ago in the eyes of derivatives
traders as Chief Executive Officer  Ron Johnson  struggles to
revive the fourth-largest U.S. department store chain.  Credit-default swaps on the Plano, Texas-based retailer
have soared 165 basis points this week to 620 basis points at
10:57 a.m. in New York, the highest level since December 2008,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. J.C. Penney’s debt
rose to five times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization at the end of the first quarter, the highest
 leverage  since 2002.  Investors are losing confidence in Johnson, who arrived in
November amid hopes he’d restore the 110-year-old chain to
health after leading Apple Inc.’s entry into retailing and
overseeing its growth to more than 300 stores. J.C. Penney
reported a $163 million first-quarter  loss  on May 15, its third
consecutive deficit, as same-store sales  tumbled 18.9 percent 
and  gross margins  shrank.  “I expected better with the Apple retail guy taking
over,” said  Adrian Miller , director of global markets strategy
at GMP Securities LLC in New York. “I would not be a buyer yet
as we are likely to see more downside pressure over the near
term as a further shake-out is likely.”  Kate Coultas, a spokeswoman for J.C. Penney, didn’t respond
to a voicemail and e-mail seeking comment on the market moves.  S&P Cuts Rating  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded J.C. Penney today to BB- from
BB and put the rating on CreditWatch Negative, citing earnings
“significantly below expectations” and deteriorating credit
metrics.  It’s rated Ba1 by Moody’s Investors Service. Credit-default
swaps tied to J.C. Penney have climbed to levels implying its
debt should be rated B1, according to Moody’s Corp.’s capital
markets research group.  J.C. Penney was listed as one of 29 rising-star candidates
by JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts in April 2011. At the time,
they forecast an upgrade in the second quarter of this year.  The retailer has $3.1 billion of  debt , with $230 million of
9 percent bonds coming due Aug. 1, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The company’s biggest  bondholders  according to reported
filings are Capital Research & Management Co., which runs the
 American Funds  mutual-fund family; Loomis Sayles & Co., and
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., Bloomberg data show.  J.C. Penney shares dropped 19.7 percent yesterday to $26.75
after the company suspended its dividend to conserve cash,
erasing a 2.6 percent gain for the year through April. The stock
rose 2.3 percent to $27.37 today.  ‘Leap of Faith’  “We’re trying to essentially convert the Titanic into
1,100 WaveRunners,” Johnson said during a May 15 conference
call with analysts and investors to discuss first-quarter
earnings. “And that’s really hard to do. But we’re making a
heck of a lot of progress.”  Gross margin, the percentage of sales left after
subtracting the cost of goods sold, shrank to 37.6 percent from
40.5 percent a year earlier, and sales slumped 20 percent to
$3.15 billion, the company said in a May 15 statement. Johnson
has simplified pricing into three tiers and is reconfiguring
stores into a collection of branded shops, causing disruption in
sales.  “Results in the quarter reiterated that investors are
being asked to take a leap of faith in a new strategy and a new
management team that is still learning what makes JCP shoppers
tick,”  James Goldstein , a debt analyst at CreditSights Inc.,
wrote in a note yesterday.  Swap Gap  The company said discontinuing the 20 cent-a-share
quarterly  dividend  will result in annual cash savings of about
$175 million. That failed to sway credit derivative traders, who
pushed the contracts tied to the company’s debt, which typically
fall as confidence erodes, up 120 basis points since it reported
earnings, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors now pay $620,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt that pays out face value if J.C.
Penney fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the
defaulted debt.  The price gap between default swaps for J.C. Penney and
those tied to Sears Holdings Corp., which said in December it
would close as many as 120 of its 4,000 stores in the U.S. and
 Canada , has narrowed by 483 basis points this year, Bloomberg
prices show.  “It’s very hard to turn around retailers, and the new CEO
has taken a damaged company and he’s really throwing everything
up in the air in a big way,” said  Bernie Williams , a  fund
manager  at USAA Investment Management Co., which oversees $52
billion in  San Antonio . “He’s got to produce some pretty quick
results or this thing’s toast.”  ‘Getting a Benefit’  In the quarter ended April 28, the company incurred $76
million in restructuring and management-transition charges.
Excluding those items, the loss totaled 25 cents a share. The
average of 16 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg was for
a loss of 8 cents. J.C. Penney said it will record additional
restructuring charges throughout the fiscal year.  Other retailers have been benefiting from the turmoil.  “In markets where we’re competing against Penney’s, we
have seen an uptick in business,”  Macy’s Inc. (M)  Chief Financial
Officer Karen Hoguet said on an earnings call last week. “It’s
hard to quantify how much, but clearly, we are getting a benefit
from what’s happening there.”  Retailers are having to differentiate themselves to attract
customers, according to Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist
at Philadelphia-based Janney Montgomery Scott LLC.  ‘In the Middle’  “Being a ‘general’ retailer isn’t a path to success
anymore,” he said. “That’s leading to some companies climbing
further upscale, some moving more downscale, but almost none
remaining in the middle.”  U.S.  retail sales  rose at the slowest pace of the year in
April, Commerce Department figures showed May 15, as Americans
took a break from a shopping spree induced by unseasonably warm
weather in prior months and an earlier Easter holiday.  “In a weak consumer environment, he’s trying to reach a
more affluent customer, him and everybody else, and that could
take years to do,” Williams said. “I just don’t know that he
has years to do it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  