-- Japan Said to Seek Sovereign Cover for Iran Tankers This Month
-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-05-17T02:11:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/japan-said-to-seek-sovereign-cover-for-iran-tankers-this-month.html
Japan  may seek approval from
parliament this month to provide sovereign insurance to tanker
operators that import  Iranian crude  as European sanctions block
access to private providers, according to two government
officials familiar with the proposed legislation.  The cabinet will make a proposal to the diet, or national
parliament, this month, according to the officials who declined
to be identified because the bill is not public yet. The
government wants to provide as much as $7.6 billion in cover,
according to one of the officials. The  Japan Ship Owners’ Mutual
P&I Association , the body that covers owners against the risk of
oil spills and tanker collisions, is likely to lose access to
 Europe ’s reinsurance market after the sanctions come into force
July 1, according to the officials.  Asian shipowners are seeking alternative sources of
insurance for Iranian cargoes because the EU’s embargo extends
to 95 percent of the world’s tankers that are covered by the 13
members of the London-based International Group of P&I Clubs.  The U.S. and EU are trying to pressure  Iran  over its
nuclear program, which they say is aimed at producing atomic
weapons. The government in Tehran, facing four sets of United
Nations sanctions, says the project is for civilian purposes.  Japan’s sovereign guarantees will replace the $7.6 billion
in cover that the country’s P&I club currently buys from the
 International Group , according to one of the officials. The
government plans to provide reinsurance for claims above $8
million from July 1, the official said.  A spokesman for the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure,
Transport and Tourism was not available for comment when
contacted by telephone.  Even after Japan’s crude imports from Iran fell 22 percent
from a year earlier in the fiscal year ended March 31, the
Persian Gulf nation remained Japan’s fourth-biggest supplier,
according to data from the Ministry of Economy, Trade and
Industry.　　  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  