-- Confidence Sinks as U.S. Job Market Progress Stalls: Economy
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-05-17T20:14:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/jobless-claims-in-u-s-were-unchanged-at-370-000-last-week.html
Consumer confidence  fell last week to
the lowest level in almost four months and more people than
forecast filed claims for  unemployment benefits , showing a lack
of progress in the job market is rattling Americans.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index dropped in the week
ended May 13 to minus 43.6, a level associated with recessions
or their aftermaths, from minus 40.4 in the previous period.
Jobless  applications  were unchanged at 370,000 in the week ended
May 12, Labor Department figures showed today in Washington.  Diminishing employment gains, falling stock prices and the
prospect of government gridlock over the budget heading into the
November presidential election may continue to hurt household
sentiment. The lack of a sustained rebound in hiring damps the
outlook for  consumer spending , which accounts for about 70
percent of the world’s largest economy.  “A mix of policy questions and some ongoing softness in
employment growth” is weighing on confidence, said Sam Coffin,
an economist at UBS Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“We’re hearing more and more about fiscal negotiations. Last
year that talk seemed to derail confidence, and that’s coming up
as a topic again.” Coffin and the UBS team, led by  Maury
Harris , were the most accurate in forecasting the unemployment
rate for the two years through April, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Other reports today showed manufacturing in the
Philadelphia region unexpectedly shrank this month and the index
of leading indicators dropped in April for the first time in
seven months.  Shares Drop  The disappointing data and growing concern over the
European debt crisis sent the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index down
for a fifth day. The gauge dropped 1.5 percent to 1,304.86 at
the 4 p.m. close in  New York , the lowest closing level since
January, amid reports that Moody’s Investors Services was about
to downgrade shares of Spanish banks.  Elsewhere today, a report from the National Statistics
Institute in  Madrid  showed  Spain ’s gross domestic product
declined 0.3 percent in the first quarter from the previous
three months, when it fell the same amount, signaling the nation
succumbed to its second recession since 2009.  Japan ’s economy expanded at an annualized 4.1 percent pace
in the first quarter, faster than estimated, from the previous
three months, data from the Cabinet Office showed. The rate was
boosted by spending on projects to rebuild areas devastated by
last year’s earthquake and tsunami.  One-Month Drop  The Bloomberg U.S. consumer comfort index’s 12.2-point
decline over the past four weeks has erased almost all of this
year’s gains. The gauge began the year at minus 44.8 and reached
a four-year high of minus 31.4 in the week ended April 15.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan  sentiment  gauge
reached a similar four-year high with this month’s preliminary
reading, led by gains among upper-income Americans, a report on
May 11 showed. The group’s final reading is due May 25.  Readings lower than minus 40 for the Bloomberg index are
correlated with “severe economic discontent,” according to
 Gary Langer , president of Langer Research Associates LLC in New
York, which compiles the index for Bloomberg. The gauge has
averaged minus 15.3 since its inception in December 1985.  All three of the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index’s
components declined last week, today’s report showed. The gauge
of  personal finances  fell to minus 12.9, the fourth straight
drop and the weakest reading since November, from minus 11.2 in
the prior week. A measure of whether consumers consider it a
good or bad  time to buy  decreased to minus 48.2, a three-month
low, from minus 45.8. Americans’ views on the state of the
economy fell to a 10-week low of minus 69.6 from minus 64.2.  Customers ‘Struggling’  “I do not feel like the economy has come back,” James
Reid-Anderson, chairman and chief executive officer of Grand
Prairie, Texas-based theme-park operator Six Flags Entertainment
Corp., said during a May 16 investor conference. “Every week
there is a different story. One week we’re up. Next week we’re
down, but there isn’t that confidence yet that the economy is
back. We’re assuming that our guests might be struggling
financially.”  Employers added 115,000 workers to payrolls last month, the
weakest gain since October, according to Labor Department
figures released May 4. The same report showed the  unemployment
rate  fell to 8.1 percent as more Americans left the  labor force .  The trend in jobless claims indicates little improvement in
job-market conditions since then. The four-week moving average,
a less volatile measure than the weekly figures, fell to 375,000
last week from 379,750.  Survey Week  Last week included the 12th of the month, which coincides
with the period the Labor Department uses in its survey of
employers to calculate monthly payroll growth. The employment
report for May will be released on June 1. The four-week average
for this month’s survey week was little changed from the 375,500
during the corresponding period in April.  An increase in applications for jobless benefits last month
and a drop in consumer expectations about the economy depressed
the index of leading indicators. The Conference Board’s gauge of
the outlook for the next three to six months decreased 0.1
percent after a 0.3 percent gain in March, the New York-based
group said today.  “The economy is in a midst of a soft patch, but I don’t
think it’s going to be anything worse than that,”  Ryan Sweet , a
senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester,
 Pennsylvania , said before the report. “Economic growth this
quarter will come right around where it came in last quarter.”  Slower Growth  The economy grew at a 2.2 percent annual pace in the first
three months of 2012, down from 3 percent the prior quarter. The
rate of growth from April to June will probably be the same as
last quarter, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg from May 4 to May 9.  A report from the  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
today cast doubt on the outlook for manufacturing. The central
bank’s  general economic index  fell to minus 5.8 this month, the
lowest reading since September, from 8.5 in the previous month.
Economists forecast the gauge would rise to 10, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey. Readings less than zero
signal contraction in the area covering eastern Pennsylvania,
southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware .  The report was at odds with other regional data.
Manufacturing in the New York area expanded at a faster pace in
May, a report this week from the New York Fed showed.  “We’re in a choppy and uneven recovery,” said Sean Incremona, a senior economist at 4Cast Inc. in New York, who had
the lowest estimate in the Bloomberg survey. “The recovery as a
whole isn’t gathering any momentum.”  Government gridlock may hold back growth. Washington policy
makers remain at a standoff over the debt ceiling after
President Barack Obama met with House Speaker  John Boehner 
yesterday. Their impasse raises the prospect of an election-year
showdown on the federal debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  