-- Princetons Finds Merger Vote Easy Part of Consolidation
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-05-17T19:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/jpmorgan-s-dimon-agrees-to-testify-in-senate-after-trading-loss.html
Jamie Dimon,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
chief executive officer, agreed to testify before a Senate
committee on the company’s $2 billion loss as lawmakers debate
whether to tighten rules on trading by U.S. lenders.  Dimon was asked to appear after the Senate Banking
Committee concludes hearings on industry reforms in June,
according to a statement from Chairman Tim Johnson, a South
Dakota Democrat.  “As always, we will continue to be open and transparent
with our regulators and Congress,” said  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a
spokeswoman for JPMorgan, who confirmed Dimon’s plan to testify.
The New York-based lender is the largest in the U.S. by assets.  JPMorgan and regulators face pressure to explain the  loss 
as lawmakers haggle over rules for the Dodd-Frank regulatory
overhaul enacted two years ago. Dimon, 56, announced the loss
May 10, assailing his firm’s handling of trading in synthetic
credit positions as “flawed, complex, poorly reviewed, poorly
executed and poorly monitored.”  While the company and regulators have briefed the committee
over the past week, “our due diligence has made it clear that
the Banking Committee should hear directly from JPMorgan Chase’s
CEO  Jamie Dimon ,” Johnson said.  Johnson’s decision to invite Dimon came after joint staff
briefings with federal regulators and a separate briefing from
JPMorgan, the lawmaker said in a statement. The invitation comes
as Congress increases scrutiny, with at least one Republican
senator calling for Dimon to claw back pay from  employees 
responsible for the losses and Senate Democrats using the
disclosure to bolster their case for tighter restrictions on
proprietary trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  