-- Kenny’s ‘Lethal Injection’ Omen Spurs Irish Treaty Support
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2012-05-18T13:14:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/kenny-s-lethal-injection-warning-spurs-irish-eu-treaty-support.html
Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  may
succeed where other European leaders have failed: persuading
voters to back austerity.  As the campaign intensifies before the May 31 Irish
referendum on the European Union’s new, tighter budgetary rules,
polls show backers of the treaty keeping their lead. Kenny’s
warnings that rejecting the treaty would cut the country off
from future bailout funds are gaining traction, even as
opponents called his comments scare tactics.  “I am going to vote ‘yes’ because we need the money and I
don’t see us getting it anywhere else,” said Dermod O’Byrne,
60, speaking close to the General Post Office in central Dublin,
the epicenter of the 1916 rebellion against British rule. “It
is better to be going with Europe than against it.”  Irish support for the so-called fiscal compact would
buttress German  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s austerity plans after
voters in France and  Greece  this month rejected more spending
cuts. While Ireland’s emergency loans are due to end at the end
of next year, Kenny told parliament on May 8 that rejecting the
treaty risks a “lethal injection” to the economy.  Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said at  Bloomberg Link ’s
Ireland Economic Summit in Dublin on May 16 that no other
country in Europe could win popular backing for the treaty right
now amid a backlash against austerity.  “I am quietly confident that the yes side will get it,”
said Peadar Kirby, a politics professor at the University of
Limerick. “One might argue this is the politics of fear but it
is also the politics of reality.”  Expectant Market  Irish backers of the treaty maintained their lead over
opponents, a poll for Dublin-based bookmaker Paddy Power Plc
showed today. Excluding voters who are still undecided, 62
percent of respondents supported the treaty, while 38 percent
opposed it, according to the survey conducted by research
company Red C on May 14-16. A separate poll for the Irish
Independent published yesterday had 60 percent in favor and 40
percent against the compact.  The yield on Irish October 2020 bonds climbed two basis
points today to 7.38 percent. While Irish borrowing costs have
risen as the Greek political crisis unfolded this month, it’s
still about half the euro-era record of 14.1 percent in July.  “The referendum has been pushed off center stage by events
elsewhere,” said Fergal O’Leary, a director at Dublin-based
fixed-income securities firm Glas Securities. “If it’s a ‘yes,’
we may see a small relief rally. If it’s a ‘no,’ then we are
back in the eye of the storm.”  Needing Support  Europe  will find it difficult to offer any concessions to
the country if voters reject the treaty, Lorenzo Bini Smaghi, a
former European Central Bank executive board member, told
Dublin-based Newstalk radio today.  Ireland has “got a lot of money from the rest of Europe”
and without ECB support the country’s banking system would
collapse, he said in an interview.  The fiscal compact requires nations to virtually eliminate
structural deficits, creates an “automatic correction
mechanism” and enshrines the new measures in national law.
Kenny’s opponents say that further budget tightening will only
worsen unemployment, which currently stands at 14.3 percent.  John O’Reilly, a 26-year-old construction worker who has
been jobless for a year, is among those yet to decide.  European Grip  “It feels as if they are trying to push us into
something,” said O’Reilly, who is considering joining the
French Foreign Legion. “Europe have got a grip on us now, we
don’t have our independence anymore.”  The jobless  rate  tripled after Ireland’s decade-long
property boom collapsed in 2008 and the economy contracted by
about 15 percent. Ireland is 75 percent of the way through a
program of 33.4 billion euros ($42 billion) of budget cuts.  “This is like being offered a ticket to the Titanic and
saying if you don’t get your ticket now, you are going to miss
the boat,” Declan Ganley, leader of the  Libertas  group, which
led the opposition when Irish voters rejected the Lisbon Treaty
in 2008, told reporters in Dublin on May 15.  If Kenny can convince voters that tougher budget measures
are the way forward and push the treaty through, his success
will stand out in Europe.  Voters in  France  elected Francois Hollande as president on
May 6 after he pledged to soften austerity measures, with his
victory following the ouster of leaders in  Portugal ,  Italy ,
 Spain , Slovenia and Slovakia during the past 15 months. Kenny
came to power in March last year after ousting the previous
Irish government in elections.  Greek Voters  In Greece, electoral gains by the biggest anti-bailout
party created political deadlock in  Athens  and reignited
concerns the country will leave the euro.  “There isn’t a country of the 17 euro countries at present
who could carry this in a referendum, there isn’t a single
country bar Ireland,” Noonan said in Dublin on May 16. “If we
can carry this that will send a signal out to Europe.”  Ireland is aiming to re-enter international debt markets by
the end of the year, and Kenny has described the vote as more
important than the general election.  Kenny took over from  Brian Cowen , who suffered the first
significant setback to his administration when he lost the
Lisbon referendum, before it was passed in a re-run a year
later. Kenny’s only experience in government previously was as
tourism and trade minister between 1994 and 1997 and a junior
education minister in 1986 to 1987.  “Kenny seems to have a certain energy, enthusiasm and
optimism which to some extent transferred across the country,”
said Eoin O’Malley, a politics lecturer at Dublin City
University. “It is remarkable because none of us would have
guessed he would have been good at this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net 
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dara Doyle at   ddoyle1@bloomberg.net  