-- Nagy Says He’s Leaving TD Ameritrade to Create Consulting Firm
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-05-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/nagy-says-he-s-leaving-td-ameritrade-to-create-consulting-firm.html
Christopher Nagy, the head of order
routing at  TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD) , is leaving the brokerage
to create a consulting firm.  Nagy, who has worked at Omaha, Nebraska-based TD Ameritrade
for 13 years and will depart at the end of the month, plans to
help brokers, exchanges and investment advisers with market
structure topics in equities and options, he said yesterday in a
phone interview.  “I want to continue my focus on market structure and
advocacy,” Nagy said. The market plunge on May 6, 2010, made it
even more important for brokers to become involved with the
rules governing trading and competition between exchanges and
other venues, he said. “You have an incredible amount of focus
on the nation’s markets and what the correct market structure
should be.”  His advisory firm will be called KOR Trading LLC, which
stands for “king of retail,” he said. Dow Jones Newswires
reported Nagy’s planned departure earlier yesterday.  The firm will help brokers write comment letters to the
Securities and Exchange Commission in response to rule changes
proposed by the New York Stock Exchange, Nasdaq Stock Market and
other venues, and help them develop business strategies related
to the current equities and options rules, Nagy said.  The order-routing department at TD Ameritrade will report
to the company’s brokerage operations group, while members of
the firm’s legal team who handled government relations
responsibilities with Nagy will continue managing that area,  Kim Hillyer , a spokeswoman for TD Ameritrade, said in an e-mailed
statement.  ‘Incredible Energy’  “He helped build our order routing and market data
infrastructure from the ground up and has served as a voice for
retail investors on countless regulatory and market structure-
related issues,” Hillyer said of Nagy. “He has incredible
energy and passion for this business -- and for helping the
‘little guy’ find a place at the table, or in the markets.”  Nagy said he joined TD Ameritrade in 1999 as a trading
manager responsible for day-to-day operations. As the business
grew, so did the company’s voice in the market and his own role,
he said. Nagy said he was vice president of trading at U.S.
Bancorp Piper Jaffray before moving to TD Ameritrade. He started
in the securities industry at Shearson Lehman Brothers prior to
the 1987 market crash.  Nagy said he plans to take a few months off and begin
consulting around September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  