-- Nebraska Upset Shapes Republican U.S. Senate Strategy
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 2012-05-17T04:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/nebraska-upset-shapes-republican-u-s-senate-strategy.html
A little-known  Nebraska  rancher who
bills herself as “sharp as barbed wire and tougher than a cedar
fence post” will ride an upset win in the state’s Republican
primary for  U.S. Senate  this week into a general election that
could help flip control of the chamber this fall.  Capitalizing on a last-minute endorsement from former
Alaska Governor Sarah Palin and a $254,864 advertising blitz
spearheaded by Ameritrade founder Joe Ricketts and his political
action committee, state Senator Deb Fischer defeated higher-
profile opponents to advance to the general election against
former Democratic Senator  Bob Kerrey .  Republicans must gain four seats in November to win control
of the Senate. The Nebraska race to replace retiring Democratic
Senator  Ben Nelson  places it among elections in Virginia,
 Florida ,  Ohio ,  Missouri ,  Montana ,  Nevada  and  North Dakota  that
will determine the balance in the chamber.  “We’re going to have an incredibly provocative campaign,”
said state Senator Danielle Conrad, a Democrat who has sat next
to Fischer for six years. “She is well respected by her
colleagues as a person who can pull off some fairly amazing
legislative feats.”  As little as 10 days ago, Fischer trailed state Attorney
General Jon Bruning and state Treasurer Don Stenberg by double
digits in the Republican race. Bruning had a 10-to-1 advantage
over her in fundraising, pulling in $3.5 million as of May 15,
compared with $394,943 raised by Fischer, according to the
Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research
group.  The mother of three and former rural school board member
highlighted her record of fiscal conservatism, catching the
attention of the  Ending Spending Action Fund , a political action
committee that received a majority of its money from Ricketts.  ‘First Run’  “The other two candidates, between the two of them, ran
for statewide office 16 times,” said  Brian Baker , the fund’s
president. “This is her first run for national office. People
are tired of business as usual. They’re tired of the debt and
the spending. They’re looking for fresh leadership.”  The fund spent $254,864 in Nebraska as of May 15, $130,682
in favor of Fischer and $124,182 against Bruning, according to
campaign finance records on www.opensecrets.org. Television
advertising against Bruning financed by the fund helped raise
Fisher’s name recognition and kept her above her opponents’ mud
slinging, said Larry J. Sabato, director of the Center for
Politics at the University of  Virginia .  ‘Through the Middle’  “It’s a classic case of two leading candidates unloading
on one another with negative advertising and a credible, but
little known, third candidate coming up through the middle,”
Sabato said.  Palin, whose endorsement sparked a social media campaign
for Fischer, said on her Facebook page: “As recently as a week
ago, Deb Fischer was dismissed by the establishment. Why?
Because she’s not part of the good old boys’ permanent political
class.”  U.S. Representative Jeff Fortenberry, a Republican from
Lincoln who also won his primary on May 15, endorsed Fischer and
said he expects her work ethic, background as an educator and
rancher and commitment to conservative values to help her beat
Kerrey in November.  “Last summer I was riding my bicycle in my own
neighborhood when I saw a car with a bumper sticker that said
’Deb Fischer for Senate,’ ” Fortenberry recalled. “It was her,
campaigning in Lincoln nearly a year ago. That speaks to her
hard work and effort.”  Kerrey Wins  Nebraska Governor Dave Heineman, a Republican, endorsed
Fischer yesterday against Kerrey in the general election. In the
Democratic primary this week, Kerrey won with more than 80
percent of the vote against lesser-known challengers. He
returned to Nebraska to seek the seat after a decade as
president of New York-based New School University.  Fischer sometimes spends snowy winter weekends working in
the state capital because it’s too difficult to make the six-
hour drive to her ranch in northern Nebraska, said the
Legislature’s Republican Speaker, Mike Flood.  Her record during her eight years in the Legislature will
be what voters use to judge her in the Senate race, colleagues
say.  Fischer’s signature achievement in the Legislature, Flood
said, was a bill she sponsored last year that earmarks $70
million annually in sales taxes to fund road improvements.  Cost of Bill  That bill, now law, may send the state’s budget into the
red, Conrad said. She cited a report by Nebraska’s legislative
fiscal office that said the cost of the infrastructure bill may
contribute to a projected $245 million budget shortfall in
fiscal 2014.  “It’s one of the largest earmarks in state history and a
significant contributor to fiscally irresponsible, Washington-
style deficit spending,” said Conrad, who led opposition to the
bill.  Fischer’s campaign didn’t return a call for comment.  Flood praised the infrastructure bill and said Fischer
single-handedly pushed it through by building coalitions.  “Last month we had $40 million more collected than we
planned for,” Flood said. “The Legislature is ready to deal
with any projected shortfall. Senator Fischer made roads a
priority in a state with declining gas-tax revenues. Deb Fischer
does her homework. I think when America meets her, they are
really going to like her.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
 Joldham1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 Jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  