-- New York Weighs Insurer Profit Caps on Lapsed Borrowers
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-05-17T20:06:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/new-york-mulls-insurer-profit-caps-on-lapsed-borrowers.html
New York  is considering capping
profits for insurers that provide mandatory coverage for
residential mortgage borrowers who lapse on their premium
payments, the state’s financial regulator said.  Costs for such policies, known as force-placed insurance,
“seem high and in many cases are exponentially higher than
regular homeowners insurance,” Department of Financial Services
Superintendent  Benjamin Lawsky  said in prepared remarks for a
hearing today in  Manhattan . “The percent of premiums actually
spent to cover claims seem extraordinarily low.”  Lawsky is examining whether insurers including  Assurant
Inc. (AIZ)  and banks such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  profit excessively
from the policies that homeowners are required to buy to shield
mortgage investors against vandalism and storm damage. He said
JPMorgan obtains the coverage from Assurant and that the bank
then shares in the profits through an insurance subsidiary.  JPMorgan “is, in effect, paying itself high premiums and
making big profits without having to provide much coverage, all
seemingly at the expense of homeowners and investors,” Lawsky
said. “When you combine this close and intricate web of
relationships between the banks and insurance companies on the
one hand, with the high premiums, low loss ratios and lack of
competition on the other hand, it raises serious issues and
questions that we need to explore in these hearings.”  Minimum Loss Ratios  Force-placed coverage is often more expensive than standard
policies because insurers can’t inspect the properties, and the
homes they cover are frequently in areas more prone to
hurricanes and other natural disasters, John Frobose, president
of Assurant’s American Security Insurance Co. unit, testified at
the hearing.  “Lender-placed insurance rates reflect all of these
factors,” he said.  Joseph Evangelisti , a spokesman for New York-based
JPMorgan, declined to comment on Lawsky’s remarks.  Assurant  declined  0.6 percent to close at $36.33 in New
York. JPMorgan fell 4.3 percent to $33.93.  Lawsky, who spoke on the first of three days of hearings
examining force-placed coverage, said the state should
“explore” whether to impose a minimum loss ratio on insurers,
without specifying a level. The hearings will also study whether
to ban some relationships between banks and insurance companies,
he said.  Premiums Tripled  If New York State set a minimum loss ratio, “we would have
to sit down and reassess our entire business,” Jim Fiore, chief
underwriting officer of  QBE Insurance Group Ltd. (QBE) ’s  Americas
division, testified.  Force-placed premiums have more than tripled to $5.5
billion in 2010 from $1.5 billion six years earlier, Lawsky
said. The insurers often pay out less than 25 cents for every
dollar in premiums they collect, he said, compared with about 63
cents on a typical homeowner’s policy.  Homeowners are required to pay the cost of force-placed
policies. In March, a California regulator asked insurers to
reduce rates for the coverage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  