-- New Jersey’s Utility Payments Add to Christie Budget Woes
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-05-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/new-jersey-s-utility-payments-add-to-christie-budget-woes.html
Governor  Chris Christie ’s budget
plans took another blow from the revenue side as payments from
 New Jersey  utilities trailed the Republican’s projections by
$121 million, according to an Assembly Democrat.  The amount adds to a $230 million shortfall in fiscal 2012
receipts through last month, Assembly Budget Chairman Vincent Prieto, a Secaucus Democrat, said today in a statement, citing a
state financial disclosure document.  “The more we look, the less likely we are to find this
mythical ‘New Jersey Comeback’ the governor continues to oddly
tout amid 9 percent unemployment,” Prieto said. The document
cited first-half tax prepayments for fiscal 2013.  Christie, 49, has been pushing an income-levy rollback that
counts on a 7.3 percent revenue gain in the 2013 budget, calling
it a key to sustaining the state’s economic rebound. Analysts
have said the proposal relies on overly optimistic revenue
forecasts, and a shortfall in receipts has gathered momentum
since February, missing by 5.3 percent last month.  In  East Hanover  yesterday, Christie said tax cuts are
needed to revive the  economy  following the recession and to
mitigate the 115 increases in levies and fees over eight years
of Democratic control before he took office in 2010. Democrats
hold majorities in both chambers of the Legislature.  Overdue Relief  “The people of New Jersey haven’t had a  tax cut  in over a
decade,” Christie told the town-hall style gathering yesterday.
“There will be some good Democrats who are willing to stand up
and say that we’ll put party behind policy.”  The payments of anticipated taxes through the rest of the
calendar year by  utility companies  failed to meet Christie’s
forecasts, probably because of an “exceptionally mild winter
and the sharp drop in natural gas prices,” the state said in
the disclosure document distributed by Prieto. It said the
shortfall, coupled with trailing fiscal 2012 receipts through
April, may “have a significant negative impact” on the budget.  March revenue collections missed budget targets by 2.5
percent, according to Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff. The
current fiscal year ends June 30.  “The treasurer will address in detail the full revenue
picture for the current fiscal year and the fiscal 2013 forecast
at his budget testimony at the end of the month,”  Michael Drewniak , a Christie spokesman, said by e-mail. “The energy tax
receipts are part of a routine disclosure, and their level has
no relationship to the health of our state’s economy.”  Sidamon-Eristoff is scheduled to testify before the
Assembly Budget Committee on May 23, his spokesman,  Andy Pratt ,
said yesterday by e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  