-- New York Fed Delays $1.7 Billion Maiden Lane III Debt Sale
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-05-17T16:44:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/new-york-fed-said-to-postpone-sale-of-maiden-lane-iii-debt.html
The Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
 said  it’s postponing a sale that had been scheduled to be
completed today of $1.7 billion of debt held in its Maiden Lane
III LLC portfolio.  The transaction was delayed to give market participants
more time to weigh information about the collateralized debt
obligation, according to a person familiar with the matter, who
declined to be identified without authorization to speak
publicly. The district bank announced the delay in a posting on
its website.  The New York Fed had planned to sell two slices of a CDO
tied to home loans known as Duke Funding High Grade I Ltd.,
which was created in 2005 with a unit of hedge-fund firm
Ellington Management Group LLC as the manager, according to its
disclosures and information from the deal’s prospectus. The
central bank acquired the debt during the U.S. government rescue
of  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  in 2008.  The Fed resumed selling securities assumed in the bailout
in January after a series of auctions last year were halted when
the process was blamed for roiling credit markets. Supply of
commercial-mortgage debt from the Fed’s sales of $7.5 billion of
CDOs last month is adding to challenges for that market as
 Europe ’s debt crisis deepens, Credit Suisse Group AG analysts
said in a report, signaling today’s delay may remove a
threat to values. Another sale remains scheduled for next week.  Jim Ankner, a spokesman for New York-based AIG, declined to
comment. AIG shares fell 3.8 percent to $29.30 as of 12:37 p.m.
in New York.  Interest-Rate Swap  The delay may be related to an interest-rate swap that AIG
had provided to the Duke Funding CDO, a derivative terminated
after the insurer’s bailout because of contract clauses
triggered by  ratings  downgrades on the company, another person
said.  Amounts owed to AIG from the swap were shifted to a lower-
ranking priority relative to the CDO’s bond slices, a treatment
that the insurer disputed at the time without taking legal
action, the second person said. Excluding the CDO from the Fed’s
current auction plans would give investors more time to assess
the possibility that AIG will revive the conflict.  The New York Fed has sold $29.2 billion in home-loan bonds
and CDOs tied to residential- and commercial-mortgage debt this
year from Maiden Lane III and  Maiden Lane II , a separate vehicle
also used in AIG’s bailout. An auction of $690.6 million of CDO
slices announced May 11 with the Duke Funding sale is still
listed as planned for May 22 on the district bank’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  