-- New York Relied on MBIA-Hired Firm to Approve Revamp
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-05-17T22:45:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/new-york-relied-on-mbia-hired-firm-for-approval-lawyer-says-1-.html
New York insurance regulators relied
on the opinion of a consulting firm hired by  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  to
determine that the insurer was solvent before approving its 2009
restructuring, said a lawyer for banks suing over the split.  The analysis by Bridge Associates LLC issued on Dec. 5,
2008, found that MBIA was “solvent and not impaired” under New
York insurance law and that its underwriting and surveillance
procedures were consistent with practices in the industry, said
Michael Steinberg, a lawyer for Sullivan & Cromwell who
represents the banks.  Bridge Associate’s opinion, which cost MBIA $1.15 million,
was done in 2 1/2 weeks and was based only on information as of
Sept. 30, 2008, Steinberg said. The suing banks have said the
insurer concealed from regulators a $3.75 million study by
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. that showed the company’s MBIA
Insurance unit was insolvent and that a policyholders’ purported
surplus of $3.3 billion was actually negative.  “The department didn’t do a solvency review,” Steinberg
said in court today. “They didn’t have time.”  New York  State  Supreme Court  Justice Barbara Kapnick is
overseeing a nonjury trial in Manhattan on the banks’ claims
that the Feb. 17, 2009, approval of MBIA’s proposal by then-
Insurance Superintendent  Eric Dinallo  was based on misleading
information and violated insurance law.  Misleading Information  More than a dozen financial institutions sued Armonk, New
York-based MBIA and the state insurance department in 2009 over
the restructuring.  Bank of America Corp . and  Societe Generale SA (GLE) 
are the only banks left in the litigation after  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , Morgan Stanley, UBS AG and others dropped out.  The banks claimed the restructuring harmed them as
policyholders by transferring $5 billion in assets out of the
MBIA unit that insured risky mortgage debt, exposing the banks
to potential losses. Bank of America and  Societe Generale  have
another lawsuit pending against MBIA while MBIA is suing Bank of
America over  mortgage loans .  The insurance regulator approved the restructuring after
finding that all policyholders would be protected, while a well-
capitalized insurer would be established for the municipal  bond
market , Attorney General Eric Schneiderman’s office has said in
filings in the case. The state and MBIA argue the insurance
department’s approval is entitled to “deference.”  State Senate Probe  New York Republican state senators James Seward, chairman
of the senate’s insurance committee, and Carl Marcellino said in
a statement yesterday they were considering conducting an
inquiry and holding hearings on MBIA’s restructuring.  At the outset of today’s proceedings, lawyers representing
MBIA and the state insurance department urged Kapnick to ask
whether the banks, their attorneys or consultants had prior
knowledge of the statement or were involved in preparing it.  “We are entitled to these answers,”  Marc Kasowitz , a
lawyer representing MBIA, said. “We think this is improper and
has potential consequences.”  Kapnick said it would be “of some concern” if the banks’
lawyers or lobbyists were involved, and asked Robert Giuffra, a
 Sullivan & Cromwell  lawyer representing the banks, whether he
had a hand in the statement. Giuffra responded that he learned
about the press release from a reporter yesterday. The judge
ordered the proceedings to continue.  The trial is scheduled to resume tomorrow at 10 a.m. New
York time.  The case is ABN Amro Bank NV v. MBIA Inc., 601475-2009, New
York state Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 