-- New York’s Liu Urges Withhold Vote on Chesapeake Directors
-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-05-17T21:17:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/new-york-s-liu-urges-withhold-vote-on-chesapeake-directors-1-.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  shareholders
should vote against two board members up for re-election this
year because they’ve failed to safeguard the interests of
investors,  New York  City Comptroller  John Liu  said.  Shareholders should hold directors’ Richard K. Davidson and
V. Burns Hargis “feet to the fire,” Liu wrote in a letter
today and addressed to owners of Chesapeake stock.  Liu, who oversees 1.9 million shares owned by New York
City’s pension funds, cited “longstanding concerns with the
board of directors’ independence, oversight and
accountability,” as reasons for withholding votes from the
directors proposed by Chesapeake.  Chesapeake’s shares have dropped 39 percent this year as
gas prices reached 10-year lows in New York and company said it
was reviewing Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon ’s
personal financial transactions involving his stakes in company
wells. The CEO and co-founder got personal loans to pay his
costs in the wells from companies also doing business with
Oklahoma City-based Chesapeake.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has begun an
informal inquiry, the company said. Chesapeake shares fell 3.5
percent to $13.55 at the close in New York, its lowest price
since March 2009.  Audit Committee Members  Davidson, former chairman of  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) , has been
on Chesapeake’s board since 2006, according to the company
website. Hargis, president of Oklahoma State University, has
been on the board since 2008. Both men serve on the company’s
audit committee and are the only directors up for re-election
this year, Liu wrote in the letter.  The drop in Chesapeake’s share price and its other
financial troubles “demonstrate the audit committee’s costly
failure to act in the best interests of shareowners,” he wrote.
“Shareowners urgently need new directors who are willing and
able to exercise strong, independent oversight of Aubrey
McClendon, a willful CEO with a penchant for risk.”  Liu also urged shareholders to vote in favor of a
shareholder proposal sponsored by the  New York City  Pension
Funds for a bylaw change that would allow anyone holding at
least 3 percent of the company’s stock for three continuous
years to nominate board members.  Chesapeake’s management opposes Liu’s proposal on director
nominations, according to its proxy statement. Jim Gipson, a
Chesapeake spokesman, declined to comment on today’s letter.  Chesapeake is scheduled to hold its annual meeting in
 Oklahoma City  on June 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tina Davis in New York at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Lee  in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  