-- News Corp.’s Seven Boxes Spirited Away During Key Week
-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-05-17T17:59:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/news-corp-seven-boxes-spirited-away-during-pivotal-hacking-week.html
Last July when  London  prosecutors
claim Rebekah Brooks was attempting to hide seven boxes of
relevant evidence from a police probe, the former top lieutenant
of Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp. was dealing with the crisis point
of the phone-hacking scandal under investigation.  According to the  Crown Prosecution Service , Brooks
allegedly conspired with Cheryl Carter, her personal assistant,
to remove the boxes from the premises of News International, the
News Corp. U.K. unit she headed, between Wednesday July 6 and
Saturday July 9.  News International and the London Metropolitan Police
Service, which has been collecting evidence related to phone-
hacking and other illegal activities at Murdoch-owned newspapers
in the U.K., declined to comment on the contents of the boxes or
to explain how they know about their removal.  The alleged actions of the women, who both deny the
charges, took place during a week that began with the
publication of a July 4 article in The Guardian. The paper
reported that representatives of the Murdoch-owned tabloid News
of the World had hacked into the voicemail of a phone belonging
to Milly Dowler, a 13-year-old girl who had been abducted and
murdered in 2002.  This week, Brooks, 43, became the highest ranking  News
Corp. (NWSA)  executive to be charged in the 17-month-old investigation
that has seen about 50 people arrested on suspicion of
involvement in voice-mail intrusion, police bribery or computer-
hacking.  The Guardian story provoked a furor over reporter behavior
at the tabloid and created a public relations disaster for News
International, publisher of News of the World and The Sun.  ‘Get to the Bottom’  The  company  was already cooperating with a police inquiry
into allegations of phone-hacking and police bribery at News of
the World dating back to 2005 and 2006.  Brooks testified before Parliament that as soon as she
learned of the Dowler incident, she wrote to the family to offer
her apologies and pledged “to get to the bottom of the
allegations.”  The Guardian story altered Brooks’s status at the company.
For the previous five months, the News International chief
executive had been responsible for managing its response to the
police investigation. With the Dowler matter, there was evidence
that phone hacking had taken place at News of the World as far
back as 2002, when Brooks had been the paper’s editor.  On Wednesday, July 6, Murdoch issued a statement pledging
full cooperation with the police investigations.  “That is exactly what News International has been doing
and will continue to do under Rebekah Brooks’s leadership,” he
said in a statement.  Joel Klein  Murdoch said he was appointing  Joel Klein , head of New
York-based News Corp.’s education unit, to “provide oversight
and guidance” to News International’s efforts to clean up its
problems.  The assignment for Klein, a former assistant attorney
general in the U.S. Justice Department and the ex-chancellor of
 New York City ’s schools, came after Brooks appeared to have a
conflict in investigating a matter in which she might be a
possible participant. Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg
News, competes with News Corp. units in providing financial news
and information.  On July 7, a day after Brooks and her assistant allegedly
began taking the boxes out of the News International archive,
Rupert Murdoch’s son James, chairman of News International and
deputy chief operating officer of the  parent company , announced
News of the World would be shut down following publication of
that weekend’s edition.  Paper Closing  On Friday July 8, Brooks met with employees of the tabloid.
She explained the paper had to be closed because it had lost the
confidence of readers and advertisers. She told employees, many
of whom were about to lose their jobs, that a year from that
time, it would be clear why the paper had to be closed.  Saturday July 9 is the date by which the last of the seven
boxes of material were allegedly moved from the News
International archive, according to the prosecutors’ charging
summary. That was also the day when the final edition of the
News of the World went to press, featuring the headline, “THANK
YOU & GOODBYE.”  During the following week, Brooks’s position atop News
International eroded.  Rupert Murdoch  declared upon arriving in
London that weekend that his priority was to support her.
According to her testimony as well as Murdoch’s, she offered to
resign several times that week but he refused to accept. It was
only on Friday, July 15, that she got her way.  In-House Security  When the police learned of Brooks’ impending departure,
they asked  William Lewis , general manager of the unit’s
newspapers and the primary liaison with Scotland Yard, to have
her office secured.  Members of News International’s in-house security team
accompanied Brooks on her final visit to her 10th floor office.
After her departure, the premises were secured.  From the day she left News International through the
following Tuesday, July 19, when she testified before
Parliament, Brooks and five others, including her husband,
Charlie, allegedly sought to “conceal documents, computers and
other electronic equipment” from Scotland Yard, according to
prosecutors.  On Sunday, July 17, Brooks was arrested at her apartment in
West London. The police searched her home at that time, standard
procedure during previous arrests in the same probe, according
to a News Corp. person familiar with the matter.  Brooks was arrested that day because the police wanted to
limit her ability to testify before Parliament at an upcoming
session about matters under investigation, according to another
person familiar with the matter.  Bag Found  The following day, Monday July 18, The Guardian reported
that a bag containing a computer, some paperwork and a phone had
been found in a parking garage below a shopping center near
Brooks’s home.  When Charlie Brooks tried to retrieve the bag, claiming
that he owned the material inside, a security guard refused to
release it and called the police, the Guardian reported.  Brooks and her husband lashed out at prosecutors the day
they were accused, saying they were “baffled by the decision to
charge” her in the matter, and describing the case as “an
expensive sideshow” and “a witch hunt.”  “Prosecutors would have to prove she moved the boxes and
then prove the information in them was detrimental to her,”
said Mark Spragg, a civil and criminal litigation lawyer with
Keystone Law in London. “They’re saying she’s covered her
tracks illegally to prevent her being prosecuted for the actual
offense of phone hacking. It seems back-to-front. I think that’s
why she’s complaining bitterly about it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Farrell  in  New York  at   gregfarrell@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Larson in London at   elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  