-- News Corp. Sued Over Hacking by Freud Communications Executive
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-05-17T16:29:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/news-corp-sued-over-hacking-by-freud-communications-executive.html
Hannah Pawlby, a public relations
executive who works for Rupert Murdoch’s son-in-law, sued  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. unit over phone hacking.  Pawlby sued News Corp.’s News International unit and the
private investigator at the center of the phone-hacking scandal
at the company’s now-defunct News of the World tabloid,
according to a court filing yesterday in  London . A spokeswoman
at Freud Communications, the PR firm owned by Matthew Freud,
confirmed that Pawlby had filed the lawsuit.  News Corp. has been sued by scores of politicians and
celebrities whose mobile-phone messages were accessed by
journalists at the News of the World. Rebekah Brooks, the former
head of the company’s British publishing unit, was charged May
15 with conspiracy to pervert the course of justice by trying to
cover up the scandal.  Pawlby was a special adviser to former U.K. home secretary
Charles Clarke until 2006, when he was fired by then-Prime
Minister  Tony Blair . She joined the company owned by Freud, who
is married to Rupert Murdoch’s daughter Elisabeth, later that
year, PRWeek  reported  at the time. She is now an associate
director at Freud Communications.  News International spokeswoman Mary Kearney declined to
immediately comment on the lawsuit. Pawlby didn’t return a call
or e-mail for comment and the spokeswoman for Freud, who asked
not to be identified in line with office policy, declined to
comment further.  $258 Million  News Corp., based in  New York , has spent about $258 million
dealing with the scandal, including $151.4 million in legal fees
and $15.6 million in settlements. About 200 new cases are being
prepared, lawyers have said and recent cases were filed by
Blair’s wife Cherie and soccer player David Beckham’s father.  Glenn Mulcaire , the News of the World private investigator,
has been sued along with News Corp. in most of the phone-hacking
cases. He was jailed in 2007 for accessing voice-mail messages
of the royal family.  Police are contacting possible phone-hacking victims who
were listed in Mulcaire’s notebooks when he was first arrested
in 2006.  The case is: Hannah Pawlby v. News Group Newspapers Ltd,
 High Court  of Justice,  Chancery Division , HC12A02042.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  