-- Nigerian Bourse May Start Retail Bond Trading by Fourth Quarter
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-05-17T09:46:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/nigerian-bourse-may-start-retail-bond-trading-by-fourth-quarter.html
The  Nigerian Stock Exchange (NGSEINDX) , sub-
Saharan Africa’s second-largest, may introduce retail bond
trading by the fourth quarter after conducting test trades last
week.  The bourse plans to cater for retail investors who want to
trade in fixed income as the over-the-counter market allows only
institutional investors due to typical minimum trades of 100
million naira ($629,000) upwards, Dipo Omotoso, assistant
general manager of product management, said yesterday in an
interview in Lagos, the commercial capital.  “One of the objectives of the NSE is to bring retail bond
trading to the exchange, the trade amount is going to be lower
than the OTC and that means the retail investors will have
another opportunity in another asset class,” he said. “There
will be price discovery on the retail side.”  The exchange of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer is aiming for
a market value of $1 trillion by 2016 from just under $80
billion currently, Taba Peterside, head of listings said
yesterday.  Nigeria ’s domestic borrowing will be 744 billion naira
($4.7 billion) this year, according to the Debt Management
Office. Debt costs have advanced, with the yield on Nigerian
bonds due November 2013 jumping 403 basis points, or 4.03
percent, to 14.93 percent in the year to May 16, according to
prices on the Financial Markets Dealers Association website.  These bonds are traded over the counter, rather than the
exchange’s platform. “Before the exchange wanted the OTC to
trade on the exchange,” Omotoso said. “But now what we’re
saying is we won’t have any impact with the OTC; what we’re
going to do is do the retail size that’s not happening on the
OTC.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Lagos at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  