-- Nigeria Naira Gains First Day in Two Weeks as Bank Sells Dollars
-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2012-05-17T14:53:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/nigeria-naira-gains-first-day-in-two-weeks-as-bank-sells-dollars.html
The naira strengthened for the first
time in two weeks after  Nigeria ’s central bank sold the most
dollars in almost two months to support the country’s currency.  The currency of  Africa ’s largest oil producer appreciated
0.1 percent to 158.80 per dollar as of 3:40 p.m. in Lagos, the
commercial capital, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Central Bank of Nigeria  sold $200 million at a foreign-
currency auction yesterday, the highest since March 21 sales,
the Abuja-based bank said in an e-mailed statement. The central
bank is the main supplier of foreign currency to the market
through twice-weekly auctions and direct sales to lenders in the
interbank market.  “The central bank is increasing dollar sales at auction
and has sold directly to some lenders in the  interbank market 
this week to cushion the effect of naira falling from companies
repatriating dividends,” Sewa Wusu, currency analyst at Lagos-
based Sterling Capital Ltd., said by phone today. “The naira
has also been under pressure from rising inflation, but I think
the central bank will be able to bring stability.”  Ugochukwu Okoroafor, a spokesman for the central bank,
wasn’t immediately available for comments.  Inflation accelerated in the West African country to 12.9
percent in April, the fastest since October 2010, from 12.1
percent in March, the  National Bureau of Statistics  said May 15.
The regulator last raised its  policy rate  to a record 12 percent
in October to check inflation and stabilize the naira.  Yields on Nigeria’s Eurobonds due 2021 rose fifteen basis
points to 5.762 percent in  London .  Ghana’s cedi was unchanged at 1.9050 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  