-- No Need to Raise Malaysian Interest Rates, Governor Zeti Says
-- B y   H a s l i n d a   A m i n
-- 2012-05-17T01:29:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/no-need-to-raise-malaysian-interest-rates-governor-zeti-says.html
Zeti Akhtar Aziz,  Malaysia ’s central
bank governor, comments on  interest rates , inflation, economic
growth and consumer debt. She made these remarks in a Bloomberg
Television interview in Istanbul.  On whether there’s a need for monetary policy tightening in
Malaysia:  “Interest rate policy should be based on the outlook for
inflation and growth. We need to assess this this very carefully
in deciding the future direction. There should not be an
overreaction and over-adjustment because this would result in an
over-adjustment in the economy.  “Right now, we have a moderation in the rate of inflation.
We have interest rates at a point where they are accommodative.
Accommodative in the sense it is not restricting borrowing
activities and it is supporting the overall growth. Therefore,
at this point in time, I believe that unless inflation does
begin to again rise, it does not merit consideration of raising
rates.”  On whether there’s a need to revise the central bank’s 2012
gross domestic product growth forecast of between 4 percent and
5 percent:  “At this point in time, not. Because that 4 to 5 percent
is mainly driven by domestic demand. Domestic demand includes
consumption demand and investment by the private sector. This is
currently highly robust. We already priced in the prospect of
significantly lower export growth.”  On whether Malaysia is on course to achieve the central bank’s
2012 inflation estimate of between 2 percent and 3 percent:  “That is intact. We are seeing a moderation. The only risk
to that range of inflation is commodity prices. If energy prices
would rise sharply like it did in 2008, then we could see higher
prices. But in the event that does not happen, we see inflation
will continue to moderate.”  On risk concerns over rising property prices and  household debt :  “At this point, we have already put in place, we believe
pre-emptively, wide-ranging measures to address this issue. That
is one of the reasons, aside from inflation, that we saw that
interest rates had to be normalized. We raised interest rates.
This was to ensure there was no mispricing of risk.  “Secondly, we introduced several macro-prudential measures
and then responsible lending guidelines. The government also
revised property gains tax.  Not all of them (banks) were
involved in excessive lending activities. Though those that were,
we have the oversight provided by our supervisory actions. This
has already reined those kinds of excessive lending.”  On whether there is a need for the central bank, to ask lenders
to set aside more reserves against property lending:  “At this point not. They have already huge buffers already
built up. We undertake stress tests. These have indicated the
banks being well-capitalized and the high quality of their
portfolio continues to improve and they are well-positioned to
withstand any set-back in terms of growth or volatility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haslinda Amin in Singapore at 
 hamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at  