-- Non-Bank Supervision, Lloyds, Mortgages: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-05-17T12:33:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/non-bank-supervision-lloyds-mortgages-compliance.html
U.S. financial regulators are looking
at specific non-bank financial companies to possibly designate
them as systemically important and subject to more rigorous
supervision, said Michael Gibson, director of the  Division of
Banking Supervision and Regulation  at the  Federal Reserve Board .  The Financial Stability Oversight Council issued a rule
April 3 explaining the criteria it will use to designate non-
bank financial firms as systemically important. Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke is a member of the council and U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  chairs the panel.  Under the rule approved in April, regulators will evaluate
non-bank financial companies with more than $50 billion in
assets if they meet any one or more of the following thresholds:
A 15-to-1 leverage ratio; $3.5 billion in liabilities on
derivatives contracts; $20 billion of outstanding loans borrowed
and bonds issued; $30 billion in gross notional credit-default
swaps outstanding; or a 10 percent ratio of short-term debt to
assets.  “The Council and its member agencies’ staffs currently are
using these criteria to analyze the potential systemic
importance of individual non-bank financial companies in
different industries,” Gibson said in prepared testimony to a
House Financial Services subcommittee yesterday.  Fed officials have stepped up their oversight of financial
system risk following the 2008-2009 financial crisis. Once the
panel, known as FSOC, designates a financial company as
systemically important, the Dodd-Frank Act entrusts the Fed with
supervision of the institution.  Compliance Policy  Mortgage Forgiveness Said to Be Part of New U.S.-Backed Program  The conservator of  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  may let
servicers forgive debt on a limited number of mortgages owned or
guaranteed by the taxpayer-owned companies, according to a
person with direct knowledge of the discussions.  The model could be a new California effort that will pay
for writedowns using federal dollars set aside for regions that
have seen the worst housing-market declines, the person said.
Because the government will bear the full costs of the
California program, mortgages backed by the two government-
sponsored enterprises will be eligible for the first time.  The Federal Housing Finance Agency currently bars principal
reductions on all other troubled loans backed by Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac on the grounds that it would hurt the companies’
finances. So far, FHFA officials have resisted political
pressure from congressional Democrats and financial incentives
offered by the U.S. Treasury to change the policy.  FHFA Acting Director Edward J. DeMarco and other FHFA
officials want to move beyond the principal-reduction debate and
focus on winding down the two companies and bringing private
capital back into the housing finance system, according to
people familiar with their thinking. After delaying an
announcement on loan forgiveness expected at the end of April,
officials hope to release the new policy soon.  For more, click here.  Finnish Watchdog Sets Loan to Value Rules, Mining Rules Expected  Finland’s  Financial Supervisory Authority  set common rules
for banks on calculating loan-to-value ratios in mortgage
lending.  The watchdog kept its recommendation of a maximum 90
percent loan to value, saying the rule helps reduce the number
of insolvencies by as much as 80 percent. The Helsinki-based
regulator commented in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Separately, Finland’s mining companies stand to face
tougher rules as environmental damage prompts regulators to
check the Nordic nation’s mining boom.  Finland’s natural resources, including gold, copper and
nickel, have become lucrative as global demand for metals drives
up prices. More than 500 mining claims and 60 mining permits
were being processed by Finnish authorities in September,
according to a government report.  For more, click here.  Portuguese Banks Receiving State Aid to Cut Pay of Board Members  Portuguese banks that receive state aid must cut the
remuneration of board members by half, according to a government
 decree .  Total pay must be limited to 50 percent of the salary and
bonuses earned in the previous two years, according to rules
published today.  Portugal’s 78 billion-euro ($99 billion) bailout plan
earmarks as much as 12 billion euros to recapitalize its banks.
Under the bailout’s terms, Portuguese banks were required to
have a 9 percent Core Tier 1 ratio at the end of last year and
maintain that level through June after government bond holdings
are written down to market prices. They must boost the ratio to
10 percent by the end of 2012.  Under the decree, the banks will also have to outline a
plan to support the economy.  Compliance Action  JPMorgan’s Specific Trades Weren’t Monitored, Regulator Says  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s individual trades that led to a $2
billion loss weren’t monitored by the Office of the Comptroller
of the Currency, which said it didn’t expect to be notified
about the positions.  The OCC’s job is to oversee wider risk-management policies
and limits at national banks and to alert company management
when it sees activities that range far from expectations, said
 Bryan Hubbard , an OCC spokesman.  While there is no requirement to notify regulators of
specific trades and positions and the performance of those
trades and positions, “we do expect to be apprised of
significant developments affecting the bank,” Hubbard said May
15. He added that it is possible that losses may be incurred
“even when all controls function properly.”  JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon said on May 10
the bank made “egregious” mistakes and had so far lost about
$2 billion tied to synthetic credit securities. Federal
regulators are examining what happened, according to people
familiar with the probes.  OCC examiners don’t approve loans, models or investments,
focusing instead on risk controls, Hubbard said, adding that
they don’t typically track a firm’s activities on a live basis.  The OCC has about 70 people devoted full-time to monitoring
JPMorgan’s banking activities, including the activity of its
chief investment office where most of the losing trades happened
in a London unit.  For more, click here.  Lloyds Banking Said to Suspend Two Traders Amid Libor Probe  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , the U.K.’s second-biggest
government-backed lender, suspended at least two derivatives
traders in a probe of potential interest-rate manipulation, two
people briefed on the matter said.  Foreign-exchange derivatives trader Alexandre Dube and
interest-rate derivatives trader John Argent, both based in
London, were sent home about two months ago, said the people,
who declined to be identified because they weren’t authorized to
discuss the matter.  Both are listed as active on the U.K. Financial Services
Authority’s register of people approved to work in the industry.
Attempts to reach them through the Internet, work phone numbers
and directory assistance were unsuccessful. Dube didn’t respond
to calls to his mobile phone, which was switched off.  Lloyds joins  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , UBS AG,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  ICAP Plc (IAP)  in suspending,
dismissing or putting on leave traders as part of the
investigations into interest-rate manipulation.  A spokesman for Lloyds said the bank doesn’t comment on
individual employees.  For more, click here.  Green Non-Life Ordered to Improve Finances, Korea Regulator Says  South Korea’s  Financial Services Commission  ordered  Green
Non-Life Insurance (000470)  Co. to boost capital by June because the
company’s debt exceeded capital, according to an e-mailed
statement from the regulator. The insurance company’s operations
will continue normally, according to the statement.  The regulator may force the sale of the insurer if it fails
to meet the order, the regulator said in the statement.  ECB Takes Steps to Remain Operational During Frankfurt Protests  The  European Central Bank  said it has taken the “necessary
steps” to ensure it remains operational and fulfills its
mission during planned anti-capitalist protests in Frankfurt
over the coming days.  “The ECB has also implemented measures to ensure the
safety of its staff and visitors, taking into account the
protection granted to the ECB’s premises and operations by the
Headquarters Agreement between the ECB and the Federal Republic
of Germany,” the central bank said in a statement published
yesterday.  Greece’s T Bank Wins Temporary EU Approval on Resolution Aid  Greece’s  T Bank SA (TBANK)  received temporary approval from the
European Union for about 680 million euros ($866 million) in
government funding to aid the bank’s takeover by the state-owned
 TT Hellenic Postbank SA. (TT)   The European Commission said it would prolong its approval
for the subsidy if Greek authorities submit an updated
restructuring plan for Hellenic Postbank within six months that
takes account of the new aid for T Bank.  The  Bank of Greece  put T Bank’s deposits, personnel, and
banking activities under Hellenic Postbank’s control in December
because T Bank wasn’t able to raise enough capital to keep
operating. About 2.16 billion euros of T Bank’s liabilities and
around 1.48 billion of its assets were transferred to Hellenic
Postbank. The shortfall of 680 million euros was covered by
resolution funds from Greece’s deposit and guarantee fund.  T-Bank and  Bank of Greece (TELL)  referred requests for comment to
Hellenic Postbank, which declined to speak about the EU
decision.  Finra Adds Tools for Checking Broker Backgrounds, Reuters Says  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority has made
changes to its BrokerCheck program that make it easier to use,
Reuters reported, citing a statement made by the agency.  Finra made the changes to implement SEC recommendations,
according to the Reuters report. The upgrades include a tool to
help people find advisers based on proximity.  BrokerCheck lists background information on approximately
1.3 million current and former brokers, and 17,400 firms,
Reuters said.  Courts  Goldman, Merrill E-Mails Show Naked Shorting, Overstock Alleges  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Merrill Lynch & Co. employees
discussed helping naked short-sales by market-maker clients in
e-mails the banks sought to keep secret, including one in which
a Merrill official told another to ignore compliance rules,
 Overstock.com Inc. (OSTK)  said in a court filing.  The online retailer accused Merrill, now part of  Bank of
America Corp. , and Goldman Sachs of manipulating its stock from
2005 to 2007, causing its shares to fall. Clearing operations at
the banks intentionally failed to locate and deliver borrowed
shares for clients shorting stocks, including two traders who
were fined and suspended from the industry, Overstock’s
attorneys said in court filings earlier this year.  Lawyers for Overstock, whose California state court lawsuit
in  San Francisco  was dismissed in January, asked a judge to make
public e-mails sent in 2005 and 2006 that it said “reflect
business decisions to put profits and corporate ambition over
compliance” at Goldman Sachs and Merrill. The banks’ decisions
to intentionally fail to deliver Overstock shares caused large-
scale naked short selling of the company’s stock, according to
the filing.  Four media organizations, including Bloomberg LP, the  New
York Times (NYT) , Wenner Media and The Economist, intervened in the
Overstock case and joined the company’s request to unseal court
files. Bloomberg News obtained a copy of the filing describing
the e-mails that had earlier been part of a larger court filing.  The e-mails demonstrate Bank of America’s efforts to ensure
proper handling of short sale transactions, said William
Halldin, a spokesman for Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of
America.  Michael DuVally, a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, didn’t immediately comment on the document.  Both banks have denied any wrongdoing.  The case is Overstock.com v. Morgan Stanley, CGC-07-460147,
Superior Court of the State of California (San Francisco).  For more, click here.  Gulf Keystone Sues Blogger for Internet Posts About Share Sale  Gulf Keystone Petroleum Ltd. (GKP) , which is exploring for oil
and natural gas in Kurdistan, sued a man over comments on
Internet message boards and Twitter that the company planned to
sell shares.  Gulf Keystone filed the lawsuit in London against Spencer
Freeman on May 11, according to court records. Freeman is being
sued for defamation and malicious falsehood, Gulf Keystone
lawyer Jane Marsden said.  The company, which has wells in northern Iraq, said in a
May 10 statement it would take legal action to prevent
“unfounded speculation” on websites and social-media sites
about the possibility it would raise money by selling equity at
160 pence a share. Gulf Keystone began London trading on May 1
at 242 pence and traded  as high as 450 pence  in February.  An account on Twitter Inc.’s micro blogging service in the
name of Spencer Freeman has been deactivated. That user wrote
about a potential placement of new Gulf Keystone shares, and an
unannounced takeover bid by  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , according a
history of the posts on social-media research site operated by
 Topsy Labs Inc . A “Spencer PR Freeman” also commented about
the company on investor message boards.  Gulf Keystone wouldn’t provide contact details for Freeman
or confirm his real name.  Christopher Hamilton, a spokesman for the U.K. Financial
Services Authority, said the regulator was aware of Spencer
Freeman’s comments. He declined to comment further.  Gulf Keystone declined to comment beyond its statement from
last week, the company’s lawyers said in an e-mail. Alan
Jeffers, an Exxon spokesman, declined to comment. A hearing in
the case is scheduled for today in London.  The case is: Gulf Keystone Petroleum Limited v. Spencer
Freeman, High Court of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division,
HQ12D01817.  AstraZeneca Antitrust Fine Should Stand, EU Court Aide Says  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , the U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker,
shouldn’t get a further reduction in an antitrust fine of 52.5
million euros ($67.5 million), an adviser to the European
Union’s highest court said.  Jan Mazak, the advocate general to the EU’s Court of
Justice, said the tribunal shouldn’t re-examine a reduction of
the penalty, according at a non-binding opinion.  A 2010 lower court ruling cut AstraZeneca’s fine from the
60 million euros initially levied by EU regulators. The company
misled patent officials and flouted antitrust rules to block a
generic version of its Prilosec heartburn medicine, according to
the 2005 antitrust decision. Prilosec was the world’s best-
selling drug in the late 1990s.  The European Commission, the region’s antitrust regulator,
has said AstraZeneca blocked cheaper versions from 1993 to 2000
to keep prices high.  AstraZeneca is “disappointed” with the legal adviser’s
opinion that its appeal should be dismissed, said Sarah
Lindgreen, a spokeswoman for the company. AstraZeneca takes
“compliance with all laws seriously” and has “a fundamental
commitment to doing business in an ethical and proper manner,”
she said in an e-mail.  While the court aide’s opinion isn’t binding, it is
followed by the court in the majority of cases.  The case is  C-457/10  P AstraZeneca v Commission.  Interviews  Banks Must Take Risks to Grow Economy, Kaplan Says  Robert Kaplan, a professor of management practice at
Harvard Business School and a former vice chairman at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., talked about JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s $2 billion
trading loss and the ability of Chief Executive Officer Jamie
Dimon to manage the firm.  Kaplan spoke with Erik Schatzker and Stephanie Ruhle on
Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack.”  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New York  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  