-- Nonwhite U.S. Births Become the Majority for First Time
-- B y   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 2012-05-17T21:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/non-white-u-s-births-become-the-majority-for-first-time.html
Minority babies outnumbered white
newborns in 2011 for the first time in U.S. history, the latest
milestone in a demographic shift that’s transforming the nation.  The percentage of nonwhite newborns rose to 50.4 percent of
children younger than a year old from April 2010 to July 2011,
while non-Hispanic whites fell to 49.6 percent, the U.S. Census
Bureau said today.  The trend is likely to have a far-reaching impact on the
country’s political alignment, the nature of its workforce and
on its economic future. Predominantly white, older enclaves in
the Northeast and Midwest will increasingly rely on an expanding
population of young Asians and Hispanics in the West and Sun
Belt to support Social Security and other retirement programs.  “This is a fundamental tipping point signaling a change in
our demographic structure for decades to come,”  William Frey , a
demographer and senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution  in
Washington, said in an e-mail.  The figures highlight the rapid growth in the Hispanic and
Asian populations, both of which have surged by more than 40
percent since 2000. Hispanics were 16.7 percent of the
population in July 2011 and Asians were 4.8 percent. The black
population has grown 12.9 percent since 2000 and makes up 12.3
percent of the nation. Non-Hispanic whites rose only 1.5 percent
from 2000 to 2011, slower than the national growth of 9.7
percent, and are now 63.4 percent of the population.  Becoming a Minority  Four states --  Hawaii , California,  New Mexico  and  Texas ,
plus the  District of Columbia  -- now have majority-minority
populations.  A 2009 Census report estimated that non-Hispanic whites
will become a minority of the total population after the 2040
Census, making up 48.5 percent in 2045. The government plans to
release revised  projections  later this year, said Alexa Jones-
Puthoff, chief of the bureau’s population estimates branch.  The Hispanic growth rate is being driven more by native
births than immigration, according to the Pew Hispanic Center,
which reported last month that the net migration from  Mexico  to
the U.S. has stopped and may be reversing. The growth of Latino
residents is the result of a younger population and higher
fertility rates, said Jeffrey Passel, senior demographer for the
Washington-based center.  “The younger the age group, the less white it is,” he
said.  Accelerating Trend  In  Georgia , the number of Hispanic babies grew 20.9 percent
from April 2010 to July 2011, the fastest rate of any state. It
will probably become majority-minority by 2025, said Matt Hauer,
director of the University of Georgia’s Applied Demography
Program.  “It’s been on this path for the last 10 or 20 years,”
Hauer, a former Census Bureau statistician, said in a telephone
interview. “But it’s been accelerating over the past decade.
And it’s not just any one area -- this is a statewide
phenomenon.”  The differences have become stark in Texas, said Mark
Fossett, director of the  Texas Census Research Data Center  at
 Texas A&M University . The state added more Hispanic babies
during the 15-month period to July 2011 than any other.  “If you’re 60 years old, this is an Anglo state,” he
said. “That’s where you see the wealth, income, home ownership,
and high-voting patterns. Anything else, especially below 18,
the school-age population, looks Latino.”  Pressure on Schools  Fossett said the increase in children is putting pressure
on the school system in the state, where the legislature last
year cut more than $5 billion in education funding from its two-
year budget of $172.3 billion.  “Now, you’ve got all your standard requirements for
meeting the needs of an urban economy and a large school
population whose parents have lower educational levels and lower
incomes,” he said. “This is occurring right at a time when
Texas is cutting down on education spending.”  Texas is home to the nation’s two most minority counties --
Maverick at 96.8 percent and Webb at 96.4 percent.  In  California , minority babies first outnumbered white
newborns in 1985, said Hans Johnson, policy fellow at the  Public
Policy Institute of California , a San Francisco-based nonprofit
organization that provides research on social, economic and
political issues. By 2004, he said a majority of births in the
state were Hispanic.  Hurting Themselves  California began passing laws designed to curb benefits for
immigrants in 1994 with Proposition 187, which would have barred
illegal immigrants from using health-care or education services,
Johnson said. It was thrown out by a federal court. That was
followed a few years later by Proposition 209, which eliminated
affirmative action for jobs and college admissions, and
Proposition 227, which got rid of bilingual education.  States trying to enact similar anti-immigration laws may be
hurting themselves in the long run, Johnson said, as white, non-
Hispanics become older and need taxpayer-funded services.  “Were it not for immigrants coming to the U.S., we would
actually be a much older population, possibly even a place
that’s losing population,” he said.  The Social Security trust funds that pay retirement,
disability and survivor’s benefits to one in four U.S.
households will be exhausted by 2033, the federal program’s
trustees said in a report released last month. The main fund
that pays for the federal Medicare health-insurance program for
the elderly will run out of money in 2024, the report said.  Workers Needed  Currently, there are 4.8 working-age Americans for every
person older than 65. By 2035, that number will fall to 2.8
people per retiree.  While the transition to a majority-minority nation won’t be
smooth, the U.S. has proven its ability to absorb new racial and
ethnic groups in the past, said Passel, the Pew demographer.  “If you go back 100 years, groups that are now considered
part of the majority white population were perceived as
minorities,” he said. “Over time, we’ll change the way we
perceive these categories.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frank Bass in  Washington  at 
 fbass1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark McQuillan at 
 mmcquillan@bloomberg.net  