-- North Dakota Tops U.S. States in Credit Ranking as Florida Rises
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-05-17T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/north-dakota-tops-u-s-states-in-credit-ranking-as-florida-rises.html
North Dakota, with a booming oil
industry and an  unemployment rate  lower than anywhere in the
nation, ranks No. 1 in  credit quality  among U.S. states,
according to a report by Conning.  The state rates highest on a measure created from 13
indicators including revenue growth, year-over-year employment
gains and foreclosure rates, said Hartford, Connecticut-based
Conning, a  money manager  handling about  $87 billion  of assets as
of Dec. 31. North Dakota rose one spot from November, when
Wyoming held the top place.  “That line of states from North Dakota to Texas have a lot
of the same characteristics,” including low debt, small social-
service costs and booming agriculture and energy businesses,
Paul Mansour, managing director at Conning, said in an
interview.  The report is another indication that North Dakota’s
natural-resource endowment is pushing the third-least-populous
state to the front of the nationwide recovery. The state was the
nation’s third-largest  oil producer  as of February, behind  Texas 
and Alaska.  North Dakota’s economy outpaced every other state in 2011,
with the fastest growth in personal income, jobs and  home
prices , according to Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States. It
has the nation’s lowest unemployment rate, 3 percent, Labor
Department data show.  Florida moved up 16 spots on Conning’s list to 21st after
ranking 37th in November. The state gained from increased tax
revenue, an improved general-fund balance and an unemployment
rate that has dropped by more than 1 percentage point, according
to the report.  “You think of Florida suffering from the real-estate
crisis, but people are still moving in, they’re working and the
state has done a lot of aggressive action to manage their fund
balance,” Mansour said.  The Sunshine State ranked 28th in growth in the fourth
quarter of 2011 compared with the same period in 2010, BEES data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  