-- North Korea Seen Restarting Work on Nuclear Reactor
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-05-17T21:24:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/north-korea-seen-restarting-work-on-nuclear-reactor.html
North Korea  has restarted
construction on a nuclear reactor that is an essential component
in building nuclear weapons, according to a U.S. university
monitoring project.  Commercial satellite imagery from April 30 shows that the
Pyongyang government is close to completing a containment
building for a new experimental light water reactor, according
to a website maintained by Johns Hopkins University’s School of
Advanced International Studies based in Washington.  The reactor, for possible completion by 2014-2015, would be
able to supply needed electricity as well as fissile material
for a nuclear weapon, the  report  says. It quoted a former deputy
director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency,  Olli Heinonen , as saying that once the reactor is operational, it
would be capable of producing enough plutonium to add “a little
more than one bomb per year” to  North Korea ’s nuclear weapons
stockpile.  U.S.-led talks to curb North Korea’s nuclear program fell
apart last month. The U.S. and South Korea have expressed
concern that the North, under new leader Kim Jong Un, is
preparing to test a nuclear explosive device soon.  North Korea issued several threats last month with
officials talking of “powerful modern weapons” and threatening
to reduce South Korea to “ashes” in minutes.  Diplomats to Meet  The construction of the experimental light water reactor,
“which the North Koreans have indicated is the prototype for
additional reactors, as well as a uranium enrichment facility at
Yongbyon, is an important indication of the North’s intention to
move forward with the expansion of its nuclear weapons stockpile
in the future,” said a post today on the ‘ 38 North ’ blog run by
the U.S.-Korea Institute at SAIS.  The State Department would not comment on the report, in
keeping with its policy of not commenting on intelligence
matters.  South Korea ’s chief nuclear envoy Lim Sung Nam plans to
meet his U.S. and  Japan  counterparts in  Seoul  on May 21 to
discuss affairs on the Korean peninsula following North Korea’s
April 13 long-range rocket launch, a violation of United Nations
resolutions. The U.S. delegation will be led by Special
Representative for North Korea Policy Glyn Davies.  The U.S. canceled food assistance in response, leading the
North Koreans to break off an agreement to halt testing of
nuclear devices or long-range missiles. U.S. officials say that
North Korea must comply with its commitments under the 2005
Joint Statement of the Six-Party Talks, which include South
Korea,  China ,  Russia  and Japan.  Construction on the reactor resumed in late February or
early March, the report said.  The combination of the reactor and enrichment plant could
allow the North to continue expansion of its nuclear-weapons
stockpile “well into the future,” according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at   jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  