-- NYC to Offer Buyouts to Teachers Not Good Enough to Find Work
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-05-17T15:42:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/nyc-to-offer-buyouts-to-teachers-not-good-enough-to-find-work.html
New York  City education officials
will offer buyouts to hundreds of teachers who collectively cost
the city at least $100 million a year after principals rejected
them for positions, Chancellor Dennis Walcott said.  The city has about 800 educators who lack school
assignments after a principal asked them to leave and they
failed to get rehired elsewhere in the system. The so-called
absent-teacher reserve pool reached as high as 3,600 earlier
this year, Walcott said.  “If they can’t get hired by another principal -- even if
they don’t try to find a job at all -- we still have to pay
their salaries,” Walcott said today at a breakfast sponsored by
the Association for a Better New York, a civic group.  Walcott declined to say how much the plan would cost, other
than characterizing it as “a generous incentive” to resign.
The proposed 2013 city budget due June 30 is $68.7 billion.  Nonworking teachers cost taxpayers $100 million a year in
salaries alone, he said, out of a proposed $19.7 billion school
budget for 2013. The city’s portion is $9.2 billion.  Walcott said that more than 25 percent of the unassigned
teachers “have been disciplined for bad behavior” and almost
half haven’t submitted job applications or attended recruitment
fairs, which he called “totally unacceptable.”  “Think about that: When unemployment is still high and
budgets are tight, we are spending more than $100 million on
teachers who aren’t interested in teaching,” Walcott said  Bargaining Stalemate  The proposal comes after several months of a bargaining
stalemate between Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s administration and
the  United Federation of Teachers  over an evaluation system that
must be resolved for the city to obtain $300 million in federal
and state school aid.  UFT President Michael Mulgrew wasn’t immediately available
to respond to Walcott’s comments. Peter Kadushin, a spokesman,
said Mulgrew would comment once he reviewed the speech.  The mayor 10 years ago singled out education as the issue
on which his performance should be judged.  In his January State of the City speech, he proposed
encouraging $25,000 grants to help pay off college-student loans
to attract graduates at the top of their class to work in city
schools.  The mayor also proposed a $20,000 salary boost for teachers
rated “highly effective” for two consecutive years.  The union opposed both initiatives, saying similar
programs had failed elsewhere in the U.S.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York  City Hall  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 