-- Obama Lunch With Boehner Ends With Standoff Over Budget
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-05-17T20:14:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/obama-lunch-with-boehner-ends-with-standoff-over-budget.html
The lunch meeting between President
 Barack Obama  and House Speaker  John Boehner  had the trappings of
collegiality as they munched on hoagie sandwiches and potato
chips from a local deli. It ended with a standoff.  Boehner renewed a threat to repeat last year’s showdown
over federal debt while Obama rejected replaying the deadlock
that brought the U.S. to the brink of default and insisted again
that any deficit-reduction plan had to include more  tax revenue .  Instead of setting up an agenda for legislation between now
and the November elections, both sides at yesterday’s meeting
staked out positions that will frame the election-year debate.  “I would have hoped that we all would have learned from
what happened last summer,” said Senator  Tom Harkin , an Iowa
Democrat.  Obama is seeking to make the case in his re-election
campaign that Republicans are blocking his initiatives to
promote  job creation  while offering a rehash of proposals on
taxes and regulation that haven’t worked in the past.
Republicans, including presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , have
opened a concerted attack on Obama over the  budget deficit  and
the nation’s debt.  Bruised by Battle  Both sides were bruised by the political battle over
raising the debt limit last year. After months of negotiations
on federal spending, Obama signed compromise legislation to lift
the debt ceiling on Aug. 2, the day the Treasury had warned the
nation’s borrowing authority would expire. One of the three
major ratings companies, Standard & Poor’s, on Aug. 5 cut its
rating on federal debt to AA+ from AAA, the first-ever downgrade
of U.S. credit.  Public approval of Congress tied an all-time low of 13
percent in Gallup polling during August and Obama’s slipped to
42 percent.  Today, Boehner sought to cast as alarmists Democrats who
have accused him of inciting financial market turmoil by raising
the prospect of a default if Republican conditions for extending
government lending authority aren’t met.  “It struck me as somewhat comical” that “people are
looking at me like I’m the guy carrying a sword around town and
am going to be bludgeoning someone,” the Ohio Republican told
reporters. “All I’m suggesting is it’s time for us to talk
about this.”  Over the Edge  House Democratic leader  Nancy Pelosi , who attended the
meeting, told reporters that Republicans were “going over the
edge” with threats that may further erode investor confidence
in the nation’s creditworthiness. “They did it before; here we
go again,” she said.  “Our  credit rating  was lowered” even after Congress
passed the debt-reduction legislation last year, she said.
“This is not a wholesome debate,” and “we should snuff it out
immediately.”  Other lawmakers in attendance at yesterday’s lunch were
Senate Democratic leader  Harry Reid  of  Nevada  and Senate
Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky.  The White House and Congress face a crush of tax and
spending decisions at the end of this year. Income tax cuts
first enacted under President  George W. Bush  will expire, as
will a temporary reduction in the Social Security payroll tax.
More than $1 trillion in automatic spending cuts are set to
begin taking effect, extended  unemployment  benefits will run out
and the government will again brush up against its $16.394
trillion legal cap on borrowing.  Attacking Obama  While Romney and congressional Republicans are attacking
Obama on  government spending  and the nation’s debt, investors
signaled they aren’t concerned about a U.S. default. Yields on
the government’s benchmark 10-year notes reached a seven-month
low of 1.76 percent at 5 p.m.  New York  time yesterday, according
to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. Rates are about one-quarter of
the 50-year annual average of 6.49 percent.  Through last week, investors had  offered  $3.18 for every
dollar of notes and bonds auctioned this year, the most since
the government began releasing the data in 1992.  Obama called the meeting, his first with congressional
leaders from both parties since February, as part of an effort
to promote proposals for encouraging businesses to hire. He
brought in lunch from Taylor Gourmet, a local deli where he had
gone earlier in the day to talk about his plans.  Before going into the meeting, Boehner derided Obama’s
proposals, saying the president is “playing small ball” while
ignoring “big looming problems facing our country.”  ‘Something Serious’  During the meeting, he told Obama that “as long as I’m
around here, I’m not going to allow a debt ceiling increase
without doing something serious about the debt,” according to
an e-mailed statement from his office.  The White House responded in kind.  “You have to ask the speaker of the House whether or not
he intends or he believes that it is the right thing to do for
the American people, the American economy to play chicken with
the full faith and credit of the United States government,”
said presidential spokesman  Jay Carney .  Boehner’s approach will increase pressure on Congress to
come up with a solution, said Senator  Mike Crapo , an Idaho
Republican who backs a deficit-reduction agreement that would
include more revenue than most Republicans would support and
deeper spending cuts than most Democrats would favor.  ‘Force the Issue’  “It’s a way to force the issue and to, I think, create
greater pressure to move toward a more balanced, comprehensive
approach,” Crapo said, adding that the debt ceiling and the
expiration of tax cuts and  unemployment benefits  will build
pressure on lawmakers. “As those things all start coming to a
head, that just builds a circumstance in which Congress has to
act.”  Harkin called Boehner’s debt limit comments “dangerous”
and likened them to the speaker “holding a bomb and lighting a
fuse ready to throw it.”  “The one thing the business community and the markets
don’t need out there is someone threatening them,” he said.  The rhetoric signals just how tough it will be for both
sides to find more than short-term solutions that “muddle
through” when they are forced to make a series of big tax and
spending decisions late this year, said  John Pitney , a political
scientist at Claremont McKenna College in Claremont,  California .  “Summer reruns are starting early,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  