-- Obama Extends Myanmar Sanctions to Keep Pressure for Democracy
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-05-17T16:02:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/obama-extends-myanmar-sanctions-to-keep-pressure-for-democracy.html
President  Barack Obama  ordered
sanctions extended on Myanmar to keep up pressure on the
government to move toward democracy.  The Southeast Asian country, which the U.S. refers to as
Burma, “has made important strides, but the political opening
is nascent, and we continue to have concerns including remaining
political prisoners, ongoing conflict, and serious human rights
abuses in ethnic areas,” Obama said in a statement issued by
the White House.  Obama said there has been progress toward democracy,
including the release of “hundreds” of political prisoners,
pursuit of cease-fire talks with several armed ethnic groups,
and talks with Burma’s leading pro-democracy opposition party.  Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, who was meeting in
Washington today with Myanmar Foreign Minister U Wunna Maung Lwin, said last month that the U.S. will selectively lift
restrictions on investment in Myanmar after elections allowed
democracy advocate  Aung San Suu Kyi  to win a seat in parliament.  Suu Kyi said earlier this week that other nations shouldn’t
yet end sanctions against the regime. She said a suspension of
the penalties are a “possible first step” to ensure the
government continues moving toward democratization.  Republican Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona  has proposed
suspending U.S. sanctions, except for an arms embargo and
provisions targeted at individuals and entities in Myanmar that
impede the movement toward democracy.  Suu Kyi, speaking by video link to a conference on freedom
by the George W. Bush Presidential Center, said her country
still has a long way to go.  “The democratization process is not irreversible,” she
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in  Washington  at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  