-- Oil Trades Near Six-Month Low as ECB Curtails Greek Banks
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-05-17T12:38:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/oil-rises-from-six-month-low-on-japan-data-pipeline-reversal.html
Oil traded near its lowest settlement
in six months as the  European Central Bank  suspended lending to
some Greek institutions, fanning concern that the region’s debt
crisis will hurt fuel demand.  West Texas Intermediate pared an advance of as much as 1
percent, and Brent traded below $110 for a barrel. The
Frankfurt-based ECB said yesterday it will push the
responsibility for lending to some Greek financial institutions
onto the country’s central bank until they have sufficiently
boosted their capital. Oil had gained as  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  and
 Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  prepared to reverse flows on
their Seaway pipeline, relieving a supply build-up at the main
U.S. storage site in Cushing, Oklahoma.  “The picture in  Europe  is far from calm,” said  Robert Montefusco , senior broker at Sucden Financial Ltd. in  London .
“WTI had been taking a battering lately with all the stock
builds, so if we get confirmation of crude moving down the
reversed pipelines that may encourage buying.”  Crude for June delivery was at $93.13 at 1:35 p.m. London
time in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
It earlier rose as much as 91 cents to $93.72 a barrel. The
contract yesterday fell 1.2 percent to $92.81, the lowest close
since Nov. 2.  Brent oil for July settlement slipped 78 cents to $108.97 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
contract traded earlier as low as $109.01, marking the first
drop in front-month Brent futures to less than $110 since Jan.
25. The June contract expired yesterday, falling 53 cents to
$111.71. The European benchmark contract was at a premium to
West Texas Intermediate of $15.43, when comparing July
contracts.  Seaway Reversal  Oil has fallen this week as  Greece  failed to agree on a
coalition government following May 6 elections, raising concern
that Europe’s debt crisis will worsen and derail the global
economic recovery.  Enbridge and Enterprise are scheduled to reverse the Seaway
pipeline today, according to an April filing with federal
regulators. A rise in Canadian and Midwest U.S. oil production,
and limited transportation out of the Cushing storage hub, have
created a supply glut.  Prices dropped yesterday after U.S. stockpiles rose to the
highest level since 1990 and a report signaled the nation may
release emergency supplies. Crude inventories climbed  2.1
million barrels  last week to 381.6 million, data from the Energy
Department showed.  The U.S. has called on other Group of Eight nations to
prepare to release strategic oil reserves because of the full
implementation of the European Union’s ban on imports from  Iran 
starting July, the Kyodo news service reported, citing
unidentified officials familiar with Japan-U.S. ties. G-8
leaders will meet tomorrow in  Maryland .  Midwest Build-Up  “Oil inventories being built up in the Midwest, with
nowhere to go, will start to be relieved because of the
pipeline,”  Victor Shum , managing director at consultant Purvin
and Gertz Inc. in Singapore. “The recent moderation in  oil
prices  may be temporary, global oil demand is likely to
strengthen in the summer.”  Enbridge, the biggest carrier of Canadian oil to the U.S.,
said yesterday it will spend about $3 billion to boost the
capacity of its mainline system and give western producers
access to refiners in the Midwest and Quebec.  Oil in  New York  may find technical support at $92.75 a
barrel, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. On the daily
chart, that’s the 50 percent Fibonacci retracement of the rise
from October’s intraday low of $74.95 to the March high of
$110.55 and is where futures reversed a decline in December.  Crude’s 14-day relative strength index has been below 30
for the past week, signaling further losses may not be
sustainable. Buy orders tend to be clustered near chart-support
levels. The RSI was at 26 today.  -- Editors: Stephen Voss, Rob Verdonck  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  