-- Oil Falls to Six-Month Low on Europe Concern, U.S. Data
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-05-17T20:05:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/oil-trades-near-six-month-low-as-ecb-curtails-greek-banks.html
Oil fell to a six-month low as
investors speculated Spanish banks may have their credit ratings
lowered and an American gauge of  manufacturing  trailed
projections, bolstering concern that economic growth will slow.  Futures retreated 0.3 percent after two people with
knowledge of the situation said that Moody’s Investors Service
will cut the Spanish ratings. The Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia’s general economic  index  shrank. Crude in New York
rose earlier as  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  and  Enterprise Products Partners
LP (EPD)  prepared to reverse flows on the Seaway pipeline.  “We had soft economic data and European concerns weighing
on equities and oil is being pulled along lower,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-
based energy consultant. “Elevated concerns about the European
story and disappointing U.S. economic data have been the story
for two weeks now.”  Crude oil for June delivery fell 25 cents to $92.56 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since Nov. 2. Futures are down 6.3 percent this year.  Brent oil for July settlement slipped $2.26, or 2.1
percent, to end the session at $107.49 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange, the lowest close since Dec.
30. Brent’s premium to the July West Texas Intermediate contract
in  New York  narrowed to $14.55 a barrel.  Moody’s is set to downgrade the credit ratings of Spanish
banks after 9 p.m. Madrid time, said the two people, who asked
not to be identified because the decision hasn’t been announced.
A Moody’s spokeswoman declined to comment in a phone interview.  Conference Board  U.S.  consumer confidence  dropped last week to the lowest
level since the end of January. The Conference Board’s gauge of
the outlook for the next three to six months decreased 0.1
percent in April after a 0.3 percent gain the prior month, the
New York-based group said today. Economists projected the gauge
would rise by 0.1 percent, according to the median of 49
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Prices also fell on concern that the European debt crisis
will spread and the  U.S. economy  will slow. The ECB said it will
temporarily stop lending to some Greek banks to limit its risk
as President  Mario Draghi  signaled the central bank won’t
compromise on key principles to keep  Greece  in the euro area.  Greek Downgrade  Greece’s credit rating was downgraded one level by  Fitch
Ratings  on “heightened risk” that the country will not be able
to sustain its membership in the euro currency union after
inconclusive elections left the country without a stable
government. Greece was cut to CCC from B- by Fitch, according to
an e-mailed statement today in  London .  “Brent is taking a hit because the demand picture in the
euro-zone is worsening as we get more negative news from
 Europe ,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a
New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy.  The European sovereign debt crisis that began in Greece and
then moved to Ireland, Portugal, Italy and  Spain  has reduced
economic growth and fuel consumption.  Enbridge and Enterprise completed modifications to reverse
Seaway today, the companies said today. Increasing oil
production in Canada and the U.S. Midwest and limited
transportation out of Cushing, the delivery point for the New
York contract, have bolstered supplies.  The 500-mile, 30-inch line is being commissioned and will
initially be able to deliver 150,000 barrels per day, increasing
to more than 400,000 in the first quarter of 2013, the companies
said in the statement.  ‘Slight Narrowing’  “You’re seeing a slight narrowing of the Brent-WTI spread
because the opening of Seaway will relieve the glut at
Cushing,” said  Tom Bentz , a director with BNP Paribas Prime
Brokerage Inc. in New York.  The U.S. Energy Department reported yesterday that crude
stockpiles climbed  2.13 million barrels  to 381.6 million last
week, the highest level since 1990. Supplies at Cushing
increased 1 million barrels to 45.1 million in the week ended
May 11, the highest level since the department began tracking
inventories at the hub in 2004.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 567,404
contracts as of 4:04 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 664,792
contracts yesterday, 11 percent above the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.54 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  