-- Oil Falls a Sixth Day on Economy; Brent Premium Narrows
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-05-18T06:58:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/oil-near-six-month-low-on-economy-brent-premium-narrows.html
Oil fell for a sixth day in New York,
heading for its third weekly decline, on concern demand will
falter as Europe’s debt crisis worsens and the  U.S. economy 
slows.  Brent crude  was at the narrowest premium to West Texas
Intermediate in two weeks after a pipeline was reversed.  Futures slid as much as 1 percent after closing at the
lowest price in more than six months yesterday.  Greece  was
downgraded by  Fitch Ratings , while Moody’s Investors Service cut
16 Spanish banks and manufacturing in the Philadelphia region
unexpectedly shrank in May.  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  and  Enterprise
Products Partners LP (EPD)  reversed the Seaway pipeline to alleviate a
glut in the U.S. Midwest.  “The commentary out there still suggests we’ve got a
bearish tone,” said  Jonathan Barratt , chief executive of
Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity-markets newsletter in Sydney.
“Everyone is still concerned about what’s happening in  Europe 
and that adds to the demand destruction. It’s still mixed data
from the U.S., there’s nothing clean coming out.”  Crude for June delivery fell as much as 96 cents to $91.60
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $92.08 at 2:56 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract yesterday slipped 25 cents to $92.56, the lowest close
since Nov. 2. Prices are 4.2 percent lower this week and down
6.8 percent this year.  Brent oil for July settlement dropped 56 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $106.93 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The  premium  of the European benchmark contract
to WTI for the same month was at $14.47, compared with $14.55
yesterday, the lowest gap since May 3.  Technical Support  Oil in  New York  has long-term technical support at $89.93 a
barrel, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. On the weekly
chart, that’s the 50 percent Fibonacci retracement of the
intraday decline to $32.40 in December 2008 from a record high
of $147.27 in July that year. Buy orders tend to be clustered
near chart-support levels. Futures last traded at that price in
November 2011.  Greece’s credit rating was downgraded one level by Fitch on
concern the country won’t be able to muster the political
support needed to sustain its membership in the euro area. Nine
Spanish lenders were cut three notches and seven were kept on
review for further reductions, Moody’s said yesterday in a
statement, citing a recession and mounting loan losses.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
index slid to minus 5.8 this month, the lowest reading since
September, from 8.5 in the previous month. The decline was the
first in eight months. Economists forecast the gauge would rise
to 10, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Seaway Pipeline  Brent’s premium to WTI narrowed as the reversal of the 500-
mile (880-kilometer) Seaway pipeline was prepared. Enbridge and
Enterprise plan to start moving oil from Cushing,  Oklahoma , to
Houston-area refineries this weekend, they said in a statement
yesterday.  The startup may ease a glut at Cushing, the delivery point
for WTI, where inventories rose 1 million barrels last week to a
record 45.1 million, according to Energy Department data. The
line will initially be able to deliver 150,000 barrels per day,
increasing to more than 400,000 in the first quarter of 2013,
the companies said.  New York oil is still poised to decline next week as the
reversal of Seaway may not be enough to alleviate the buildup of
supplies in the central U.S., according to a Bloomberg News
survey. Nineteen of 34 analysts, or 56 percent, forecast prices
will drop through May 25. Nine respondents predicted futures
will rise and six estimated they will be little changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  