-- Okada Allowed to Renew Request for Wynn Resorts Papers
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   V a l e r i e   M i l l e r
-- 2012-05-17T20:31:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/okada-allowed-to-renew-request-for-wynn-resorts-papers.html
Japanese billionaire Kazuo Okada,
whom  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  is trying to remove from its board, won a
Nevada judge’s permission to renew his request for access to the
casino operator’s books and records.  Clark County District Court Judge Elizabeth Gonzalez, at a
hearing today in Las Vegas, allowed Okada to amend an earlier
request for documents, including records related to Wynn
Resorts’ $135 million pledge to the University of Macau. The
judge set a for June 28 hearing date to decide which, if any,
documents Wynn Resorts should produce for Okada.  “If ever there were a time when a director needed
inspection, it is now,” Okada’s lawyers said in a May 3 court
filing. “The other directors, under the control of Mr. Wynn,
and for their own financial self interest, have closed ranks
against Mr. Okada.”  Okada held the largest single stake in Wynn Resorts through
his Tokyo-based  Universal Entertainment Corp. (6425)  until February. In
an escalating dispute with founder and Chief Executive Officer
 Stephen Wynn , the company redeemed his 20 percent stake at a
discount. Wynn Resorts said Okada was “unsuitable” and accused
him of giving more than $110,000 in payments and gifts to
Philippine gaming officials.  Okada in January sought a court order that, as a director,
he was entitled to inspect Wynn Resorts’ books and records
regarding last year’s pledge to the University of Macau. The
judge responded by ordering Wynn Resorts to produce only two
more pages of documents to Okada.  Additional Documents  James Pisanelli, an attorney for Wynn Resorts, said at
today’s hearing that Okada was trying to get records pertaining
to the Las Vegas-based casino operator’s licensing process in
 Macau  about a decade ago. Okada sought to compare his handling
of Philippine officials with Wynn Resorts’ dealings with Macau
officials, Pisanelli said.  “He is struggling, and grasping at straws, and hoping and
praying that he can find something in the ledger, something that
someone did in Macau that is like what he did in the
 Philippines ,” Pisanelli said.  In his renewed request, Okada seeks additional documents
from 2000 through 2002 regarding entertainment of and contacts
with Macau officials, as well as documents explaining Wynn
Resorts’ use of $120 million he invested in 2002.  ‘VIP Gamblers’  Wynn Resorts filed a complaint against Okada in February,
alleging that he is developing two casinos and three hotels in
 Manila  with plans to lure “high-limit, VIP gamblers” from
 China  in direct competition with Wynn Resorts’ casino in Macau.  Okada filed counterclaims in that case, now in federal
court in  Las Vegas , accusing Wynn Resorts of breach of contract
and its chairman of racketeering, among other allegations. He
seeks a court order voiding the redemption of his shares at an
$800 million discount.  The case is Okada v. Wynn Resorts, A-12-654522-B, District
Court, Clark County Nevada (Las Vegas). The federal court
lawsuit is Wynn Resorts v. Okada, 12-00400, U.S. District Court,
District of Nevada (Las Vegas.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
Valerie Miller at  valeriemusicmagic@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  