-- Hollywood Moves on China No Matter What SEC Probe Finds
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-05-17T00:55:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/hollywood-moves-on-china-no-matter-what-sec-probe-finds.html
Hollywood studios are moving ahead
with plans to make and sell movies in China, a sign the
industry’s push to expand in the third-largest film market will
proceed without being slowed by a federal inquiry.  News Corp. (NWSA) , owner of 20th Century Fox, this week bought a
stake in Beijing-based  Bona Film Group Ltd. (BONA) , a movie producer
and distributor.  DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jeffrey Katzenberg  and  Robert Iger , Chairman and CEO of
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , this month reaffirmed initiatives in China.  Hollywood’s interest in China has grown with the country’s
plan to build state-of-the art theaters and upgrade its  film
industry , moves that would also help fuel studios’ local theme-
park and live-entertainment businesses. The country is letting
in more foreign films, sharing ticket sales more equitably and
encouraging ties to local producers. Reports last month of a
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission inquiry raised the
question of whether studios’ progress would be interrupted.  “It’s hard to slow anything down in China,” said Dan Mintz, CEO of Beijing-based DMG Entertainment, which is working
on “Iron Man 3” with Disney, the world’s largest entertainment
company. “Of course, you are careful about doing business and
who you are doing business with.”  The SEC sent letters to studios seeking information about
dealings with certain officials, and possibly inappropriate
payments, according to people with knowledge of the matter.  Studio officials decline to discuss the inquiry, some
citing confidentiality rules. The letters were sent by the SEC
in March, the  New York  Times reported earlier.  SEC spokeswoman Florence Harmon also declined to comment.  Anti-Corruption Measures  Studio chiefs are moving forward because they’re confident
strict anti-corruption policies are being followed, said Michael Perlis, a former Securities and Exchange Commission attorney now
with Locke Lord LLP in Los Angeles.  “I am sure senior management, by and large, assumes
they’ve got procedures in place and they’re being complied
with,” Perlis said in an interview. “That doesn’t necessarily
mean they are.”  Disney’s decision to co-produce the Marvel film, announced
in April, attests to Hollywood’s willingness to stake some of
its biggest projects in China, one of the world’s fastest-
growing markets. Box-office sales there increased 35 percent to
$2 billion last year, according to the  Motion Picture
Association of America , the industry’s lobbyist.  “ China  is a top priority for us,” Disney’s Iger said on a
May 8 conference call with analysts and investors.  Chinese Market  Disney, based in  Burbank ,  California , operates a theme park
in  Hong Kong  and is building another in  Shanghai .  With the right film, the Chinese market can be lucrative.
The government in February increased the number of foreign films
it lets in each year to 34 from 20, according to the MPAA, and
studios will get 25 percent of the box-office receipts, up from
13 percent previously.  James Cameron ’s 2009 “Avatar,” the top-grossing movie in
history with $2.78 billion in global sales, took in $182.2
million from Chinese audiences, according to researcher Box
Office Mojo. As of May 1, a 3-D version of his 1997 blockbuster
“Titanic” had collected $134 million in China since it was
released there on April 10, according to Fox, the international
distributor.  The film-finance community, which lends to producers based
in part of foreign distribution contracts, is starting to take
China more seriously.  ‘Top Three’  “China used to be a zero in terms of forecasting,” said
Jeff Colvin, a senior vice president and head of film finance in
Los Angeles for  Comerica Inc. (CMA) , the largest U.S. lender for
independent movies. “Now it can be a top-three market after the
U.S. and U.K.”  This week,  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. said it was buying a
19.9 percent stake in Bona Film, sending the company’s U.S.-
traded shares to a one-year high.  Bona Founder and Chairman Yu Dong said in April he was
interested in making “Avatar 2” with Fox. Cameron told the New
York Times in an interview published May 5 that he was exploring
co-producing the movie’s sequels in China. The May 14 statement
issued by Bona and New York-based News Corp. didn’t mention
specific projects.  DreamWorks Animation said in February it will form Oriental
DreamWorks, a Shanghai-based joint venture to develop
entertainment projects in China that will include theme parks
and live productions.  The company will own about 45 percent of the venture, with
the rest held by China Media Capital, Shanghai Media Group and
Shanghai Alliance Investment Ltd.  Hollywood Math  Generally, studios’ internal rules for doing business
outside the U.S. are about as strict and sophisticated as any in
the U.S., Perlis said. Even so, The SEC historically has been
suspicious of Hollywood accounting methods, he said. That
suspicion may have contributed to the decision to open the
inquiry he said.  “The SEC has routinely been suspicious of Hollywood
because their view is that Hollywood plays by its own rules,”
Perlis said. “There was always the sense that cash didn’t find
its way to where it should have.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  