-- Tom Sachs Lifts Off For Mars Propelled by Booze, Opium
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2012-05-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/tom-sachs-lifts-off-for-mars-propelled-by-booze-opium.html
Artist Tom Sachs rocketed to fame in
the 1990s with sardonic works such as “Hermes Hand Grenade,”
“Chanel Guillotine” and “Prada Death Camp.”  In 2007, he launched his sculptural space odyssey at the
 Gagosian  gallery in  Beverly Hills  with a trip to the moon,
complete with sample rocks chiseled from the floor of the
gallery.  Now “Space Program” -- a deadpan trip to Mars -- has
landed in the 55,000-square-foot Drill Hall of  Manhattan ’s Park
Avenue  Armory . It’s a huge installation of sculptures hand-
crafted from plywood, foam-core, glue and steel. There’s a
mission control, a spacecraft, a launch platform, a roving
vehicle and a Darth Vader beer dispenser.  We spoke at a steel desk in front of the video wall.  Lundborg: You’ve been working on this for three years.  Sachs: This iteration for three years. We’ve actually been
working on it since 2005.  Lundborg: So are you facing post-Mars depression?  Sachs: We’re going straight into Europa. It’s an icy moon
of Jupiter that has a 4-kilometer ice crust and within it is a
liquid core.  What we know of earth science, where there is liquid water,
there is life. So the scientists in the astrobiology field are
looking at Europa as the best chance in our solar system for
life.  My Odyssey  Lundborg: How did the Tom Sachs space odyssey start?  Sachs: I’ve been interested in these space themes for many,
many years, but I really see it as a scaffold for other issues.
To me, the main issue is transparency in construction.  We paint the plywood before we cut it, you see the screws.  Lundborg: Unlike my highly designed iPhone.  Sachs: There is no evidence of its construction -- it’s a
miraculous object and it really sums up where we are.  But this installation represents where we’ve been, and
shows a transparency of construction and a transparency of use.  As it is, we’re destroying our planet. The more you use
your iPhone, it only gets worse and weaker, while plywood,
leather and other organic materials tend to improve with age.  Lundborg: Isn’t it delusional to think we’re going to find
a nice new planet to mess up?  Sachs: The science of exploring other worlds is useful on
Earth: solar power, water and fuel conservation, food, waste
management -- all the basic stuff we’re struggling with is
exploited better in the space program than anywhere else.  Phony Green  Lundborg: Looking at the installation, my first thought
wasn’t “green.”  Sachs: “Green” is kind of a phony buzz word, and people
talk about recycling. The real word you want is “re-use.”  The reason people are using “green” is to sell more
stuff, like beautiful, stainless-steel water bottles.  Lundborg: Many of the artifacts in the D.C.  Air and Space
Museum  look a lot like your handmade sculptures, so in a way
it’s amazing to consider they could make it into outer space.  Sachs: The Russian space program is even more bricolage,
more cobbled together than ours. The Americans spent over $1
million to test the Fisher space pen. It writes in zero gravity,
upside down and under water.  The Russians weren’t as well-funded as the Americans so
they used pencil.  Lundborg: You developed strong relationships with  NASA 
scientists. What did you learn from them?  Sachs: From an engineering standpoint, the concept of baby
fat. You have to design in a little bit of flexibility. Things
can’t be so rigid, because you have to allow for your mistakes
further on.  Lundborg: I’m assuming you’re a sci-fi fan?  Sachs: Of course. The thing that was always interesting
about “ Star Trek ” was that it was about life on Earth. Our
space program is also about life here.  When you colonize another planet -- or country -- you bring
your bacteria to them and screw up their ecosystem, and you
bring their bacteria or their gold back with you. If you don’t
agree with their ethics, maybe you bring a Bible and a shotgun
and make them see it your way.  Cocktails on Mars  Lundborg: I notice you’re taking opium and bourbon to Mars.  Sachs: One of the big parts of our space program is ritual.
Our main ritual is work, but cocktails, coffee and cigarettes
are ways people have of connecting to each other.  Ritual, drugs, community -- these are real things that are
part of who we are in our society. For us opium is interesting
since it represents man’s hedonistic nadir.  We’re also bringing the Japanese tea ceremony to Mars,
which I believe represents man’s greatest achievement.  “Space Program: Mars” runs through June 17 at the Park
Avenue Armory, 643 Park Ave. Information: +1-212-616-3930;
 http://www.armoryonpark.org .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on tech.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 