-- Momentum Bullish on CPI-Linked Bonds as Inflation Accelerates
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-05-17T13:23:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/momentum-bullish-on-cpi-linked-bonds-as-inflation-accelerates.html
Momentum Investments is bullish on
 South Africa ’s inflation-linked bonds, betting the notes will
outperform fixed-rate debt this year as consumer prices in
 Africa ’s biggest economy continue to rise.  “Inflation-linked bonds are currently in a perfect storm,
where rising inflation and declining real yields generate
substantial returns,” Conrad Wood, who oversees 70 billion rand
($8.4 billion) as head of fixed-income investments at Momentum,
said in a presentation to investors in  Cape Town . “This
environment is likely to persist over the current year.”  The  inflation  rate slowed to 6 percent in March. Linkers,
as the securities are known, will probably return 8 percent this
year, Wood said. That compares with a projected return of 6
percent for fixed-rate bonds, according to Momentum’s
projections. Inflation will probably accelerate as energy and
food prices rise, Wood said. Momentum sees the inflation rate
rising to 6.1 percent by the end of 2012.  The central bank forecasts inflation will remain close to
the top end of its 3 percent to 6 percent target range this
year. The bank has left its benchmark repo rate at 5.5 percent
since Nov. 2010 to aid growth. Rates are unlikely to rise before
the third quarter of 2013 as the central bank continues to
ignore inflation in favour of growth, Wood said.  The yield on 2.5 percent inflation-linked bonds due 2017
dropped 24 basis points, or 0.24 percentage point, to a record
low of 0.62 percent on April 24. The notes yielded 0.7 percent
today, unchanged from yesterday’s close.  Inflation-linked debt pays interest on a principal amount
indexed to the  consumer price index . When inflation accelerates,
the securities pay more interest.  Linkers have returned 4.2 percent this year, compared with
the 4.1 percent return for fixed-rate bonds, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  