-- Money Market Indicators Signal Banking-Sector Stress Stabilized
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-05-17T13:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/money-market-indicators-signal-banking-sector-stress-stabilized.html
Money-market indicators signaled the
ability of banks to borrow and lend short-term funds stabilized
as the gap between the London interbank offered rate and the
Federal funds rate was unchanged.  The three-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor,
which represents the rate at which banks say it would cost to
borrow from another,  was  0.46685 percent, unchanged, according
to the British Bankers’ Association.  The Libor-OIS spread, a gauge of banks’ reluctance to lend,
was unchanged at 30.8 basis points. The gap is at the lowest
since October. Overnight index swaps, or OIS, give traders
predictions on where the  Federal Reserve ’s effective funds rate
will average for the term of the swap. The central bank’s target
rate is set in a range of zero to 0.25 percent.  Predictions in the forward market for Libor-OIS, known as
the FRA/OIS spread, widened to 42.3 basis points from 41.9 basis
points yesterday, according to the second rolling three-month
contract period.  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, widened 0.4 basis points to 36.63 basis points. The gap
is a gauge of investors’ perceptions of U.S. banking sector
credit risk as swap rates are derived from expectations for
dollar Libor. Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors in
many types of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan
securities.  The cost for European banks to convert euro-denominated
payment streams into dollars-based funding via the cross
currency swaps market narrowed. The three-month cross-currency
basis swap was 49.3 basis points below Euribor, compared to 51.2
basis points below yesterday.  Euribor-OIS Spread  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight indexed swaps, narrowed.
The measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to one another was 38
basis points, compared with 38.5 basis points yesterday.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S.  commercial paper 
surged $26.4 billion to $966.4 billion outstanding in the week
ended May 9, according to Fed data. During the two-week period
ended May 9, the market has expanded $40.5 billion, the biggest
increase since $40.8 billion for the comparable period ended May
25, 2011, according to Fed data compiled by Bloomberg.  The price on one-year cross-currency basis swaps between
yen and U.S. dollars was negative 35.8 basis points, compared
with negative 34.8 basis points yesterday. A negative swap price
indicates investors are willing to receive reduced interest
payments on the yen they lend in order to obtain the needed
financing in dollars.  Foreign-exchange swaps are typically for periods of less
than a year, while cross-currency basis swaps usually range from
one to 30 years. The latter are agreements in which a person
borrows in one currency and simultaneously lends in a different
currency. The trade involves the exchange of two different
floating-rate payments, each denominated in a different currency
and based on a different index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  