-- Montreal Police Arrest 122 after Student Protest
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-05-17T14:43:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/montreal-police-arrest-122-after-student-protest.html
Montreal  police arrested 122 people
overnight after demonstrators took to the streets and smashed
shop windows to protest the Quebec government’s decision to
suspend classes and draft legislation aimed at defusing a three-
month dispute over tuition fees.  Five bank branches had their windows shattered, Montreal’s
police department said on its Twitter  feed . Police used pepper
spray to break up the demonstration, the Canadian Broadcasting
Corp. reported. Protesters were arrested for taking part in an
“illegal gathering,” police said.  Semesters at 11 universities and 14 community colleges,
known as CEGEPs, will be suspended until August unless
agreements can be reached with student organizations, Quebec
Premier Jean Charest said yesterday evening at a televised news
conference in  Quebec  City.  The proposed law would guarantee students access to
education while planned tuition increases are maintained,
Charest said. The students would finish their semester in August
before a new year begins in October.  Charest “is pouring fuel on the fire” by proceeding with
the emergency legislation, Martine Desjardins, president of the
Quebec Federation of University Students, said late yesterday in
a  press  release. “To solve this situation he must have a
discussion with the elected representatives of the students. You
cannot impose the diktats of a party to the youth of a nation.”  Lowest Fees in Canada  About 155,000 university and high school students across
Quebec have been boycotting classes since Feb. 13 to protest
against the tuition fee increase due to take effect in
September. Quebec, which has the lowest student fees in  Canada ,
was initially planning to boost fees by C$1,625 ($1,607), or 75
percent, over five years before offering to spread a larger
increase over seven years. The dispute is the longest in
provincial history.  “Most students are non-violent, so I don’t have any major
fears on that front,” Quebec Finance Minister Raymond Bachand
said today in the provincial capital, Quebec City, in comments
that were broadcast by RDI television network. “However there
are also people in our society -- let’s distinguish them from
the vast majority of students -- who are radicals and have other
intentions. That’s a job for the police.”  About 70 percent of all university and community college
students in Quebec have either finished or are in the process of
finishing their school year, Education Minister Michelle Courchesne said. Courchesne was named to the post earlier this
week when her predecessor, Line Beauchamp, resigned after
negotiations with student unions failed, saying she was quitting
because “I no longer believe I am part of the solution.”  Charest declined to say yesterday when the law will be
introduced, saying only it will be “soon,” adding his
government will “keep open the lines of communication” with
student organizations.  U.S. Warning  Quebec unveiled plans last year to boost tuition fees in an
effort to plug a budget gap. Bachand in March reaffirmed his
goal to balance the budget by 2013-14. Pauline Marois, who leads
the separatist Parti Quebecois, has said she would cancel the
tuition increase if elected.  Drafting emergency legislation is “unworthy of a Quebec
Premier,” Marois told journalists in  Quebec City  today.  Demonstrators in Montreal and elsewhere have blocked
bridges, roads and access to colleges and universities at
various times since the dispute began, dominating television and
newspaper coverage in Canada’s second-most-populous province.
Four students were arrested this month after smoke bombs forced
the closing of Montreal’s subway system.  The conflict even prompted the U.S. Consulate in Montreal
to issue a  “security message”  on April 27, urging U.S.
citizens to avoid the areas of demonstrations and to “exercise
caution” if within the vicinity of any protests.  Deal Rejected  Quebec’s bar association yesterday  called on  the government
and the students to give negotiations “a new chance.” Both
parties should resume talks under the supervision of a mediation
panel made up of three independent experts, Louis Masson, the
association’s chairman, said in a press release.  Student leaders agreed to a tentative settlement with the
government earlier this month after round-the-clock talks in
Quebec City, only to see their members to later reject the deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  