-- Top Drug Lobbyist Says U.S. Losing Resarch Jobs Overseas
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-05-17T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/top-drug-lobbyist-says-u-s-losing-resarch-jobs-overseas.html
The U.S. risks losing thousands of
research jobs as countries led by  Singapore , Ireland and South
Africa boost incentives to woo drugmakers, said  John Castellani ,
head of a pharmaceutical industry lobbying group.  Those countries are outpacing the U.S. with tax incentives,
increases in government research spending and efforts to train
scientists, according to a study released today by the
 Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America . That has
many U.S. companies considering shifting their investment
overseas, according to the lobbying group that represents most
of the largest drugmakers.  The pharmaceutical industry spends more on research than
any other industry in the U.S. and employs 650,000 people,
according to PhRMA. Drugmakers have been under pressure to cut
costs as they brace to lose $120 billion in sales to generic
competition by 2015 in the U.S. and  Europe ,  according  to IMS
Health Inc. Drugmakers are looking outside the U.S. for growth
and savings.  “It is getting very, very competitive in the world as
everyone tries to attract this business,” Castellani said in a
telephone interview. “These are the best jobs you can create in
an economy. These are the highest-multiplier, best-paid workers,
the ones that drive the biggest bang for your investment dollar,
and the rest of the world knows that.”  Efforts in Congress  Castellani said PhRMA will lobby Congress to make the
research-and-development tax credit permanent and fight any
efforts to limit the incentive, which enables tax reductions
made on the basis of how much they spend on developing new
products. He is also pushing to limit cuts to drug spending in
Medicare and Medicaid, the U.S. health programs for the elderly,
disabled and poor. A $20 billion drop in revenue for drugmakers
could lead to   260,000 job cuts , PhRMA said.  Efforts by the U.S. to keep companies may have little
benefit as most of the growth in the pharmaceutical sector will
be in  emerging markets , said  Christopher-Paul Milne , associate
director for the Tufts Center for the Study of Drug Development.
Spending on drugs in emerging markets, such as China, India and
 Brazil , is set to double in the next five years to as much as
$315 billion -- about the size of the U.S. market, according to
IMS, a Danbury, Connecticut-based company that analyzes health
trends.  “It is a global industry and has been and it is going to
continue to further globalize,” Milne said in a telephone
interview. “It has spread out from being U.S.-centric to more
U.S., Europe and  Japan , to now being worldwide.”  Expansion Plans  London-based  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  opened a $600 million
vaccine plant in Singapore in 2009. Indianapolis-based  Eli Lilly
& Co. (LLY)  plans to invest 330 million euros ($420 million) in a new
pharmaceutical plant in Ireland.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , based in  New
Brunswick ,  New Jersey , is looking to buy Chinese companies with
treatments for mental illness and cancer, the company’s China
unit head said this week.  To lure companies, Singapore’s government has been pushing
to recruit and train researchers and has one of the highest
rates in the world with about 6,000 researchers for every 1
million citizens, according to the PhRMA study. It also offers a
tax deduction of 150 percent for research expenses. As a result,
pharmaceutical exports have increased 274 percent since 2000.  Ireland has created programs to fund research, such as $4.6
billion in basic research grants, and offers a 25 percent
research tax credit and one of the lowest corporate tax rates of
12.5 percent, according to the report.  Castellani is going to  China  this week to meet with Chinese
companies that are trying to attract foreign investment to build
a biotech and pharmaceutical sector there.  “As we go around the world, we are seeing countries
develop very aggressive innovation strategies,” Castellani
said. “We don’t see the U.S. doing the same thing.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Shannon Pettypiece at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 