-- Top Rugby Teams to Get Compensation for World Cup Losses in 2015
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-05-17T04:17:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/top-rugby-teams-to-get-compensation-for-world-cup-losses-in-2015.html
The top-tier southern hemisphere
nations will share 10 million pounds ($15.9 million) in
compensation for competing at the next  Rugby World Cup  and also
get an additional 3 million pounds each for participating.  The International Rugby Board agreed this week to change
the four-yearly tournament’s revenue distribution model to
address losses suffered by major teams during a World Cup year.
The Australian Rugby Union said it had a A$16 million ($15.9
million) shortfall because of the need to cut its match schedule
before the 2011 tournament.  World champion New Zealand said in September it could pull
out of future World Cups unless changes were made. The increased
fee for the 2015 tournament in England will help offset revenue
lost by the All Blacks’ inability to host Test matches in the
June window, Steve Tew, chief executive officer of the  New
Zealand  Rugby Union, said today in a statement.  “We made our views very clear last year, and have worked
hard on the issue since, so it’s very satisfying that we have
been heard,” Tew said. “The increased distribution of RWC
revenue, coupled with the ability to claw back some of the lost
revenue from Test matches, is a significant help.”  As well as getting an extra 3 million pounds each along
with the other so-called Tier 1 nations,  Argentina ,  Australia ,
New Zealand and  South Africa  will share 10 million pounds to
offset the impact of having to truncate their southern
hemisphere Rugby Championship in 2015, when the World Cup is
scheduled to start Sept. 18. The inaugural edition this year
finishes Oct. 6.  ‘Significant’ Result  The allocation will be distributed between the four
individual unions on the basis of any proven revenue shortfalls
suffered as a result of the timing of the World Cup, the
Australian Rugby Union said today.  “The result this week, in terms of the increased
distribution and the allocation available for any effect the
2015 Rugby World Cup might have on the Rugby Championship, is
significant,” John O’Neill, the ARU’s CEO, said in a statement.
“We are far better placed now.”  IRB restrictions that prevent sponsors from being
associated with teams during World Cups will be reviewed by a
four-person committee featuring Tew, Sophie Goldsmith, the
commercial director of  England ’s Rugby Football Union, and the
CEOs of the South African and Welsh rugby unions.  The Dublin-based IRB said it reinvests commercial revenue
from the World Cup across all its member unions to advance
development of the sport and will spend 150 million pounds on
the global game between 2009 and 2012. The new financial model
will provide an additional investment of 50 million pounds
through 2015, the IRB said two days ago.  “A Rugby World Cup year is a financial challenge to all
competing unions and the new financing model goes some way to
answering those concerns,” Jurie Roux, CEO of the South African
Rugby Union, said in a statement. “Typically, unions receive
reduced rights fees from sponsors, there are fewer home test
matches, while expenses increase as a part of preparations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  