-- Mortgage-Bond Transparency Plan Meets Resistance From Traders
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-05-17T14:58:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/mortgage-bond-transparency-plan-meets-resistance-from-traders.html
The Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority’s latest plan to increase transparency in a corner of
the $6.5 trillion mortgage-bond market is meeting resistance
from Wall Street’s largest lobbying group.  Investors and dealers are concerned that the level of
detail Finra proposes to publish on trades of government-backed
securities as so-called specified pools will reveal shifts in
strategy because individual bonds are often owned by only one
holder, according to the Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association.  “There’s a concern the confidentiality of that money
manager’s trading patterns and positions would be jeopardized,”
Chris Killian, a managing director in  New York  at Sifma, said in
a telephone interview.  The group is pushing for a “masking”
of a bond’s unique identifier, known as a CUSIP, as Finra adds
trade-by-trade disclosures including prices to its Trade
Compliance and Reporting Engine, he said.  Finra has been expanding Trace to securitized debt after
the murkiness of trading in securities including  mortgage bonds 
without government backing contributed to the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression in 2008, by fueling doubt
about the health of banks and funds. The non-governmental
regulator oversees more than 4,400 brokerage firms.  The Trace system started in 2002, providing the first real-
time data on most corporate bond trading to anyone with  Internet
access . Finra, which operates from  Washington  and New York,
began last year  disclosing  daily market-level information culled
from data on individual securitized-debt trades it had started
collecting earlier.  Transparency Benefits  “The more light that’s shone on the market, the better off
everybody is,” said  David Land , a mortgage-bond manager at  St.
Paul , Minnesota-based Advantus Capital Management Inc., which
oversees about $22 billion.  Land disagrees the planned disclosures should be limited in
the way suggested by Sifma, an approach also  sought  by the Bond
Dealers of America, which represents smaller brokerages. More
transparency helps cut the differences between the prices at
which dealers buy and sell debt, helping investors, he said.  Finra is reviewing  comment letters  from Sifma and BMA on
its proposal, said Ola Persson, vice president in its
transparency services division.  SEC Approval  The industry watchdog won approval from the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission earlier this year on its plan for real-
time dissemination of data on individual so-called To Be
Announced trades involving government-backed mortgage
securities. TBA trading is the largest part of the $5.4 trillion
market for debt guaranteed by government-supported  Fannie Mae 
and  Freddie Mac  or U.S.-owned Ginnie Mae. The disclosures may
start this year, with the approved rule saying they’d begin no
earlier than August.  In TBA trades, forward sales contracts are filled with any
bonds matching a broad set of characteristics. Investors use
specified-pool trades to acquire securities that have less risk
of prepaying faster or slower than they want, paying a premium.  Finra altered its initial proposal for  reporting  TBA trade
details after feedback from market participants. It scaled back
the amount of information on trade sizes it will release,
lowering a cap to $10 million from $25 million for securities
that fail to match so-called good delivery guidelines. Any
trades larger than the cap would simply be listed as at least
$10 million.  Diluted Protection  Unlike TBA trades or corporate bonds, the specified-pool
market “is very granular, and ownership very often is in the
form of whole pools,” so “the protection that dissemination
volume caps provide in other more widely-held markets” is
diluted, Sifma said in a May 10 comment letter.  “When a single investor owns a large percentage of a
specified pool, if the Finra proposal were finalized in its
 current form , the market would be able to know that this
investor is buying or selling, and the market would then be able
to track this investor’s activity, and reverse engineer and
capitalize on its strategy,” the BMA said in a letter the same
day.  Bryan Whalen, co-head of mortgage bonds at Los Angeles-
based TCW Group Inc., which oversees about $124 billion, said he
agreed with the groups’ viewpoint.  “If you disclose enough generic information, there’s
definitely a middle ground where there’d be enough
transparency,” he said.  “Would I prefer everyone not to see
what we’re doing in specifieds? Yeah, I would prefer that.”  Finra is also still studying how to approach dissemination
of trading data for so-called collateralized mortgage
obligations and asset-backed securities, Persson said. That debt
accounts for the roughly 7 percent of volume in the structured-
finance market not tied to agency pass-through mortgage bonds,
he said. He declined to offer a timeline for further actions.  “Finra’s bias is to believe that transparency is good for
the marketplace,” Persson said. “Having said that, these
products are complex and the impact of transparency needs to be
carefully studied.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 