-- Toshiba Rises After Ending TV Production in Japan: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2012-05-17T06:59:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/toshiba-rises-after-ending-tv-production-in-japan-tokyo-mover.html
Toshiba Corp. (6502)  rose the most in seven
months in Tokyo trading after saying it will no longer produce
televisions in  Japan , as falling prices and the strong yen erode
earnings at the company’s unprofitable TV-making unit.  Toshiba climbed 5.6 percent, the most since Oct. 7, to
close at 322 yen on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The company halted
output at its sole domestic TV factory in Saitama, north of
Tokyo, in the year ended March 31, Atsushi Ido, a spokesman,
said by phone today, declining to specify the date. The Tokyo-
based company will still make TVs at four factories overseas,
including plants in  China  and  Indonesia , he said.  Japanese electronics makers including  Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Panasonic
Corp. (6752)  and Toshiba are suffering from falling TV sales as prices
drop and a stronger yen reduces overseas earnings and
competitiveness. Toshiba’s TV business may remain unprofitable
this fiscal year after losing about 50 billion yen ($623
million) a year earlier, the company said May 8.  “It’s a positive move,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who
oversees about $600 million at Ichiyoshi Investment Management
Co. in Tokyo. “The company should just abandon overseas TV
production altogether and have them built by Chinese or
Taiwanese companies.”  Toshiba will cut the number of TV models it sells by 60
percent in 2013 from 2011, it said in a statement today. The
maker of Regza brand TVs will also outsource more production,
President Norio Sasaki said in a presentation in  Tokyo .  “The drop in demand for televisions was more than we
expected,” Sasaki said.  The company can still make a profit from TVs and has no
plans to withdraw from the business, he said.  Operating Profit Target  Toshiba aims to boost overall  operating profit , or sales
minus the cost of goods sold and administrative expenses, to 450
billion yen in the the year ending March 2015 from 206.6 billion
yen last fiscal year, it said in a statement today. The
company’s electronic-devices business may generate 180 billion
yen in operating profit, it said.  Toshiba said it’s targeting total sales of 7.8 trillion yen
in the 12 months starting April 2014.  The company delayed a revenue target of 1 trillion yen at
its nuclear business to fiscal 2017 from fiscal 2015, after
orders from nuclear businesses slowed following the March 2011
nuclear disaster at Fukushima, it said today.  Global TV shipments fell last year for the first time in
six years because of excessive inventory in the U.S. and  Europe 
and the end of Japanese government subsidies for purchases,
according to DisplaySearch, part of NPD Group. Shipments fell
0.3 percent to 247.7 million units, the researcher said.  Tokyo-based  Hitachi Ltd. (6501) , which posted a record profit last
fiscal year, plans to have other companies take over domestic
production of its Wooo televisions later this year.  Toshiba was the sixth-biggest maker of flat-panel TVs last
year with a 5.1 percent share in the global market, down from
5.7 percent in 2010, according to DisplaySearch.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  