-- Osiris Shares Increase on Approval for Stem-Cell Therapy
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-05-18T20:13:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/osiris-wins-canadian-approval-for-first-stem-cell-therapy.html
Osiris Therapeutics Inc. (OSIR)  rose after
the company said it won the world’s first approval for a stem-
cell drug, gaining clearance in  Canada  to sell Prochymal for a
disease that can attack patients who received bone-marrow
transplants.  Osiris climbed 5.5 percent to $5.55 at 4 p.m. New York
time. The shares have lost 24 percent in the last 12 months.  Prochymal was approved for the treatment of acute graft
versus host disease in children for whom steroids haven’t
worked, the Columbia, Maryland-based company said yesterday in a
statement. Steroids have a 30 percent to 50 percent success
rate, and severe GvHD can be fatal in 80 percent of cases,
according to the company.  The therapy uses mesenchymal stem cells derived from bone
marrow that can take on different forms to combat the immune
reaction that causes patients to “literally peel out of their
skin and shed their intestinal lining,” Osiris Chief Executive
Officer Randal Mills said in a telephone interview. “The
disease has no equal.”  The company hasn’t sought approval for this indication in
the U.S., where regulators asked for more data before
considering whether to allow sales of the drug, Mills said.
Prochymal is used in eight countries, including the U.S., on an
expanded-access program basis, which allows patients to receive
experimental medicines without participating in clinical trials.  “This is the first regulatory approval of a stem-cell drug
-- where the active ingredient of the drug is a stem cell -- in
the world,” Mills said. “It’s a huge deal for us and a huge
deal for the entire field of stem-cell therapy.”  Osiris Shares  Osiris shares declined from an all-time high of $28.56 in
2007 as the biotechnology company faced clinical setbacks,
including two studies in 2009 that failed to show statistical
improvement of Prochymal versus placebo.  The Canadian approval was based on data showing a
“clinically meaningful response” 28 days after starting
therapy for 61 percent to 64 percent of patients treated, Osiris
said in the statement.  Prochymal may draw $16.7 million in revenue next year with
Canadian approval, estimated  Edward Tenthoff , an analyst with
Piper Jaffray & Co., before the company’s announcement. He said
that while Prochymal would be the first stem-cell drug to
receive approval, other regenerative products used for wound-
healing that employ stem cells are already on the market, such
as Carticel from Sanofi’s Genzyme unit.  Bone Marrow Donations  Carticel uses a patient’s own cells to repair cartilage
injuries in the knee, and is implanted with surgery, whereas
Prochymal is an intravenous, off-the-shelf therapy. The stem
cells are derived from bone marrow donations from healthy
donors.  Progress in stem-cell research has been halting.  Geron
Corp. (GERN) , based in  Menlo Park ,  California , started the first U.S.-
approved trial of human embryonic stem cells before ending the
program last year because of research costs and regulatory
complexities.  Under the terms of the Canadian approval, Osiris will
conduct confirmatory clinical testing. The company is also
testing Prochymal in Crohn’s disease, heart attack and type 1
diabetes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  