-- House to Vote on $554 Billion Defense Bill, Defying Obama
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-05-18T16:31:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/house-to-vote-on-554-billion-defense-bill-defying-obama.html
The Republican-controlled U.S. House
is set to vote as soon as today on a $554 billion defense bill
that President  Barack Obama  has threatened to veto if it impedes
the Pentagon’s new defense strategy.  The defense authorization measure is about $4 billion more
than the Democratic Obama administration said could be spent for
fiscal 2013 to stay within deficit-reduction targets.  The House Armed Services Committee last week rejected
Pentagon proposals to curtail or slow weapons programs. They
include Northrop Grumman Corp.’s Global Hawk drone and  General
Dynamics Corp. (GD) ’s Abrams battle tanks as well as Virginia-class
submarines built by  Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc. (HII)  and the
Electric Boat unit of General Dynamics.  “It’s Congress’s constitutional obligation to ensure this
new force posture is not a hollow one,” Representative Howard
P. “Buck” McKeon, the California Republican who is chairman of
the armed services panel, said on the House floor as he kicked
off debate on the 2013 defense authorization bill this week.
“To that end, we provide modest increases in combat
capabilities with particular emphasis on our Navy fleet and
critical intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance
platforms.”  Obama in January presented a revamped U.S. military
strategy for an era of budget cuts that pledges to emphasize the
Asia-Pacific region and space and cyber capabilities while
preserving missions such as defeating al-Qaeda. The Obama
administration, as part of the strategy, is seeking a reduction
in the number of military personnel as it tries to cut $487
billion from the  defense budget  over the next decade.  Platform for Debate  The 2013 defense authorization bill, which sets spending
targets and policy for the fiscal year that starts Oct. 1, seeks
to slow the pace of personnel reductions in the military and
would block new rounds of military base closings in the U.S.  The legislation also would block same-sex marriages and
“marriage-like” ceremonies on military bases. The panel agreed
on the provision last week within hours of Obama saying that he
supports same-sex marriage. Last year, Obama ended the “don’t
ask, don’t tell” policy that barred openly gay men and lesbians
from serving in the military.  Indefinite Detention  The House measure backs indefinite detention without trial
of terrorism suspects, including U.S. citizens, captured on U.S.
soil. A coalition of Democrats and Republicans failed today to
roll back existing defense policy.  The coalition, led by Representative  Adam Smith  of
Washington, the top Democrat on the House Armed Services
Committee, sought to include a provision in the bill to allow
for terrorism suspects seized on U.S. soil to be handled by
civilian courts and not in military custody.  “To give the president the power to take away a person’s
freedom and lock them up, potentially simply based on
allegations, without due process, and without the civil
liberties protected by our Constitution, is an extraordinary
step,” Smith said in a statement today.  Final Passage  En route to final passage, the House will have debated more
than 100 amendments, including failed calls for an end to the
war in  Afghanistan  and blocking assistance funds to  Pakistan .
The debate on the war in Afghanistan and Pakistan’s role in the
stability of its neighbor preceded the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization summit this weekend in  Chicago  where the U.S. will
press allies to stick to a plan of withdrawing combat troops by
the end of 2014.  The House yesterday backed a provision that would prohibit
the Defense Department from awarding a contract to supply
helicopters to the Afghan security forces to any entity
“controlled, directed or influenced” by a state that has
supplied weapons to  Syria  or a state-sponsor of terrorism.  The Pentagon has said it’s in a bind, with nowhere to turn
for helicopters needed by Afghanistan’s  air force  except  Russia ,
a top arms supplier to Syria’s President Bashar al-Assad.  The U.S. Army has a $375 million contract to buy 21
Russian-made MI-17 helicopters for the Afghans from
Rosoboronexport, Russia’s state-run arms trader, Pentagon
Undersecretary for Policy  James Miller  said in a March 30 letter
to lawmakers. The UN estimates that Assad’s regime has killed
more than 9,000 people since an uprising against his rule began,
two months before the Pentagon contracted for the Russian-made
helicopters.  Military Helicopters  The House provision was sponsored by Rosa DeLauro, a
Connecticut Democrat.  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) , which builds
several of the U.S. military’s helicopters including the Black
Hawk, is based in DeLauro’s state.  The House armed services panel approved $88.5 billion as
requested for war operations in Afghanistan and elsewhere. The
war funds are in addition to the $554 billion base bill that
includes budget authority for military construction and Energy
Department defense programs.  Lawmakers including Representative  John Conyers , a Michigan
Democrat, unsuccessfully targeted  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35
Joint Strike Fighter, seeking to eliminate the vertical-take-
off-and-landing variant of the aircraft. At a total cost of $382
billion, the F-35 program was designed to produce multiple
aircraft variants and is the Pentagon’s most expensive weapons
program. The House rejected Conyers’s amendment yesterday on a
voice vote.  While the armed services panel endorsed the Pentagon’s
request to buy 29 F-35 stealth jets made by Bethesda, Maryland-
based Lockheed Martin, it is pressing the Defense Department to
disclose by Dec. 31 the date by which it expects the three
versions of the fighter planes to become operational. The
Pentagon requested $9.1 billion for the F-35 in the 2013 budget.  Long-Range Bomber  The panel backed the full budget request of $292 million
for research and development of a new long-range strike bomber,
attaching a provision pressing the Air Force to ensure that the
plane can carry nuclear weapons as soon as it is operational.  The Air Force plans to spend $6.3 billion through 2017 on
developing the bomber, the first since Northrop Grumman was
awarded the contract for the B-2 in 1981.  The defense panel overrode Army plans to suspend production
of upgraded Abrams tanks built by Falls Church, Virginia-based
General Dynamics. The committee added $181 million to the Army’s
budget, for a total of $255.4 million, to keep building the
tanks and converting them into the latest M1A2 model at the
plant in  Lima ,  Ohio .  Global Hawk  The committee’s measure would block the Pentagon’s plan to
retire one version of the Global Hawk drone by Northrop Grumman,
based in Falls Church,  Virginia , and require that the secretary
of the Air Force take “all actions necessary” to keep the so-
called Global Hawk Block 30 operating through 2014.  The Pentagon proposed truncating purchases of the Global
Hawk variant and putting the drones it had bought into storage.
Air Force officials said those drones are more expensive to
operate and have less sensing capacity than Lockheed Martin’s
older U-2 spy planes. The Defense Department has projected
savings of $2.5 billion over five years from cutting short the
Block 30 version.  The House panel would authorize an additional $263 million,
for a total of $338.3 million, to fund operations of the Block
30 drones. The Air Force spent $3.4 billion on development and
procurement of the 18 aircraft, according to Air Force
spokeswoman Jennifer Cassidy.  Virginia-Class Submarines  The Armed Services Committee backed the production of two
Virginia-class submarines in 2014 that the Navy struck from
fiscal 2014 plans. The panel recommended adding a down payment,
or “advance procurement,” of materials and added $778 million
for that purpose.  The Navy had planned to buy two Virginia-class submarines a
year, with the work split between Huntington Ingalls, based in
Newport News, Virginia, and Groton, Connecticut-based Electric
Boat. Instead, the Pentagon proposes buying one in fiscal 2014
and delaying another until fiscal 2018.  Israel ’s Iron Dome missile-defense system stands to gain as
much as $680 million in U.S. aid through 2015 under the
committee’s legislation for the system built by Rafael Advanced
Defense Systems Ltd.  Some provisions added by the House panel may become items
for negotiation with the Senate. The Senate Armed Services
Committee is scheduled to start considering its version of the
defense authorization bill on May 22.  The bill is H.R. 4310.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in  Washington  at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  