-- How Rich Economies Must Adapt to Tomorrow’s Job Market
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-17T23:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/how-rich-economies-must-adapt-to-tomorrow-s-job-market.html
The worsening crisis in  Europe  and
the slow recovery in the U.S. are distracting attention from a
longer-term problem.  Across the developed world, well-paid jobs in the middle of
the labor market are in decline. The issue isn’t simple, nor are
the remedies, but governments must start paying attention.  The name for what’s going on is job polarization. Wages at
the top are still rising, and at the very top they’re rising
fast. Wages in a lot of menial and low-skill occupations are at
least holding their own. But as  research  by David Autor, an MIT
economics professor, and others has demonstrated, earnings in
the middle of the labor market have been falling for years.  This issue is distinct from the heated debate over
structural versus cyclical unemployment. To the extent that the
U.S.’s 8.1 percent  unemployment  is structural -- because people
have the wrong skills or are living in the wrong place and can’t
move -- increasing demand through fiscal or other stimulus won’t
work. To the extent it’s the result of cyclical changes in the
economy, adding to demand is the answer.  Structural unemployment has always been lower in the U.S.
than in other advanced economies, thanks to its famously
flexible labor market. In this recovery, however, long-term
unemployment has surged, and many workers have dropped out of
the workforce altogether. If structural unemployment is rising,
that’s grounds for concern.  Hollowing Out  But job polarization -- which began long before the recent
recession -- is a worry in its own right. The issues are
connected: Both involve matching workers’ skills and employers’
needs. But job polarization is more about the structure of
employment and less about the characteristics of the unemployed.
Look at it this way: At full employment, declining  earnings  in
the middle of the labor market will still be a problem.  The main cause of this hollowing out is technology. Tasks
such as cleaning a house or mowing a lawn aren’t easy to
automate -- and because that kind of manpower is cheap to begin
with, there’s little incentive. At the other end of the scale,
advanced human skills are still needed to design software, play
professional basketball or negotiate a corporate merger. Those
tasks can’t be automated either. But in the middle is a swath of
tasks where automation is feasible and wages are getting
squeezed.  Computers are very good at skilled-but-routine tasks, and
getting better all the time. Cheaper, too. Add the surge in
high-bandwidth telecommunications, and you have what amounts to
a new industrial revolution. But this time, good middle-income
jobs, not muscle-power on farms or in factories, are under
assault.  There are only two ways to respond. You could try to slow
down the revolution, which would be a formula for economic
decline, or help people adapt, which would spread the
revolution’s benefits more equitably. The second is the right
way to go. The catch is that the policy prescriptions aren’t
simple.  A finding emphasized by Autor and others is that the labor
market still rewards going to college, and in fact the so-called
college premium has lately increased. Since the mid-1980s,
demand for college graduates has been running ahead of supply.
Getting more people through college will bridge the gap, and
equip more workers for tasks that require human talent.  College Completion  Making sure people who start college finish with a degree
is at least as important as getting more to start college in the
first place. Completion rates in the U.S. have fallen,
especially for men -- a main cause of the lagging supply of
graduates. One of the worst things you can do for your standard
of living is go to college, borrowing heavily to do so, then
drop out.  To improve completion rates, high schools must do a better
job of preparing students for higher education. Good work habits
and proficiency in reading and basic math are the sine qua non
of a successful college experience. That shouldn’t need saying,
but colleges complain that high schools are failing to deliver.
And here’s an issue that’s been especially neglected: better
advice so that students can match themselves more skillfully to
college courses and jobs.  Pushing more people through college will help, but it has
limits. A surge of college graduates in the 1970s caused
relative wages to fall. And there are signs that the college
premium is itself flattening in the middle, while growing
steeper at the top. College graduates do better in the labor
market than those with less than a four-year degree, but not
nearly as well as those with the right kind of degree. This
underlines the importance of matching, both of aptitudes to
disciplines and of disciplines to careers.  Maybe the biggest change demanded by job polarization is a
rethinking of the idea of careers for life. In the U.S. and
other countries, this is still very much the cultural norm: You
train for one thing and do it for 40 years, gaining seniority
through experience and on-the-job training. The pace of change,
together with the fact that working lives (through choice or
necessity) are lengthening, is making this model obsolete.  In the future, people may need to plan and prepare for
multiple careers. Adaptability must become a frame of mind --
and schools and colleges must themselves adapt to this need. The
economy will continue to demand labor, and an increasingly
productive economy will be able to pay better wages. But
matching people to jobs will need to be done more quickly and
with greater flexibility. Education in the U.S. and other
advanced economies faces a new and far-reaching challenge. The
worker of the future needs to be trained to be trainable.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  ways to save  Syria ;
William Pesek on  China ’s declining soft power; Andrew Razeghi on
 jump-starting startups ; Vali Nasr on  Europe and  Iran ; Rachelle
Bergstein on  corporate pumps ;  Mark Taylor  on  competing colleges ;
Ted Gayer and Phillip Swagel on  mortgage-principal deductions .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 