-- Lloyds Chairman Says JPMorgan Losses Could Happen at Any Bank
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-05-17T16:37:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/lloyds-chairman-says-jpmorgan-losses-could-happen-at-any-bank.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  Chairman  Win Bischoff  said the $2 billion trading loss suffered by  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  could happen to any bank.  “If it can happen to JPMorgan, which has such a good risk
culture, then it could happen anywhere,” Bischoff said today on
the sidelines of the bank’s annual general meeting in Edinburgh.  JPMorgan reported the loss related to derivatives trading
last week after an “egregious” failure in a unit managing
risks. Bischoff said Lloyds had investigated its own operations
and was satisfied with the safeguards at the lender.  “We have looked at all the things we are doing that might
have linkages to some of those financing structures,” Bischoff
said. “We simply haven’t found anything.”  Chief Executive Officer Antonio Horta-Osorio, 48, is
seeking to strengthen London-based Lloyds’s balance sheet by
selling assets, cutting costs and bolstering its capital
strength. Lloyds, which cut more than 30,000 jobs since its 20
billion-pound ($31.7 billion) taxpayer rescue in 2008, said this
month it will shrink assets further and faster than forecast as
Britain’s biggest mortgage lender reduces its reliance on short-
term funding.  “We are mostly a retail and commercial bank and therefore
the value that we have at risk and our limits are completely
different from investment banking operations” such as JPMorgan,
Horta-Osorio told journalists today.  Lloyds cut its reliance on wholesale funding by 24 percent
to 231.3 billion pounds in the first quarter. Funding with a
maturity of less than one year fell by 41 percent to 91.4
billion pounds. The bank boosted its core Tier 1 ratio, a
measure of financial strength, to 11 percent in the quarter,
from 10 percent a year earlier. That exceeds the 9.5 percent
target required by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
for lenders such as Lloyds, which are deemed too big to fail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  