-- Pat Sajak, Vietnam Vet, Hosts ‘Sundance for Troops’: D.C.
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-05-17T15:22:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/pat-sajak-vietnam-vet-hosts-sundance-for-troops-d-c-.html
“Wheel of Fortune” host Pat Sajak,
a veteran of the  Vietnam War , was the special guest last night
for the annual  GI Film Festival , which showcases films and
documentaries about war and the U.S. military.  “No popcorn and Milk Duds?” Sajak teased before
moderating a brief Q&A with some of the directors and producers,
such as Alyssa Buchanan, 23. She presented her short film
“Those Forgotten” about two survivors of a war shipwreck.  It was day three of the festival at the Canadian Embassy,
dubbed “International Warrior Night,” with seven short films
being screened. Brandon Millett, who started the “Sundance for
troops” in 2006 with his wife, Laura Law-Millett, said this
year’s lineup includes foreign films, action films and even an
animated comedy called “The Jockstrap Raiders.”  Buchanan said she was impressed with her fellow filmmakers,
because “you never get enough money, but we’re very
resourceful. You can shoot something in your backyard and make
it look like World War II.”  After the screening, Canadian Ambassador Gary Doer welcomed
guests to a cocktail reception where he touted his nation’s oil
resources. The Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers and
the  American Petroleum Institute  were the evening’s sponsors.  Janet Annesley, vice president of communications for CAPP,
said she’d like to get the festival to Ottawa.  Neeson, Rihanna  Canadian defense attache Rear-Admiral Richard Greenwood
presented Sajak with a bottle of wine, but Sajak joked that with
all the petroleum people present, he was hoping for a “fill-
up.”  Tonight, about 40 wounded soldiers will get an advanced
screening of “Battleship,” starring  Liam Neeson  and Rihanna,
and this weekend the GI Film Festival will present “Army
Wives” cast members Sally Pressman and Brian McNamara with
their GI Family Award for their portrayal of military family
life on the  Lifetime  drama series.  Millett said the festival is looking to expand its presence
this year by hosting “micro events” around the country and
introducing a show on the Pentagon Channel featuring films from
festivals past.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include:  Jason Harper  on  autos , Jeremy
Gerard on  theater ,  Rich Jaroslovsky  on  technology .  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in  Washington  at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 