-- Paulson Says He Likes CVR Energy as Icahn May Resell It
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-05-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/paulson-says-he-likes-cvr-energy-as-icahn-may-resell-it.html
John Paulson , the billionaire hedge-
fund manager seeking to reverse record losses in 2011, said he
likes  CVR Energy Inc. (CVI)  because the company may be successfully
resold by Carl Icahn, who controls the majority of shares.  Billionaire Icahn’s tender offer for the oil refiner
received the required shareholder support on May 7. Icahn won
the right to buy CVR Energy after a majority of stakeholders
agreed to sell their stock to him in an offer that values the
company at $2.6 billion.  About 48 million shares were tendered in response to
Icahn’s $30-a-share offer, giving him about 69 percent of the
stock, according to a statement last week. Holders of the
remaining stock have until May 19 to take the same offer, which
includes the right to as much as $7 more a share if Icahn can
resell the  Sugar Land , Texas-based company.  “CVR Energy is a gift from  Carl Icahn ,” Paulson said
yesterday at the Ira Sohn investment conference in New York.
“Carl is generally particularly friendly to shareholders.”  Paulson & Co. didn’t hold any shares of CVR Energy as of
March 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Paulson said
the company may be sold for about $36 a share. The stock closed
yesterday at $30.35 in New York trading.  Paulson, 56, became a billionaire in 2007 by betting
against the subprime mortgage market. Paulson & Co., his New
York-based firm, manages about $24 billion.  Board Shakeup  Icahn has criticized CVR’s management and urged a sale of
the company, which owns refineries in the U.S. Midwest and holds
a majority stake in fertilizer maker  CVR Partners LP. (UAN)  CVR’s
board had opposed the sale and said Icahn’s offer didn’t
properly value the company over the long term.  Seven members of the CVR board will be replaced with Icahn
nominees as soon as all the tendered shares are purchased,
according to the May 7 statement. Icahn plans to resell CVR
about 60 days after buying it.  Paulson also recommended shares of  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) ,
a stake he first bought in 2009 and his firm’s third-largest
position.  “AngloGold offers upside in the gold space,” he said.  The stock hasn’t been a good performer in last three years,
lagging behind the performance of bullion, Paulson said.  “That represents an opportunity,” he said. “The stock is
a better valuation than before.”  Paulson told clients in February that gold is his best
long-term bet, serving as protection against currency
debasement, rising inflation and a possible euro breakup. Gold-
mining companies are historically inexpensive, he said at a
meeting with investors last month.  Fund Decline  Paulson lost 6.7 percent in April and 8.8 percent this year
in his Advantage Plus fund as gold-mining stocks dropped. The
fund seeks to profit from corporate events such as takeovers and
bankruptcies and uses leverage to amplify returns.  Companies that explore for and mine the metal also were the
main drivers of losses in the firm’s Advantage Fund, which
employs a strategy similar to Advantage Plus, and its Gold Fund,
which can buy derivatives and other gold-related investments.  Paulson & Co. sold 1.1 million AngloGold American
depositary receipts in the first quarter, making the value of
its stake $1.2 billion as of March 31, the New York-based firm
said in a May 15 filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Paulson also recommended shares of  Caesars Entertainment
Corp. (CZR) , the largest operator of U.S. casinos.  Caesars Expansion  “They are expanding, adding new facilities such as a new
casino in  Cleveland ,” Paulson said. “They continue to pursue
opportunities in Asia and the U.S.”  Caesars, weighed down by almost $20 billion in buyout debt,
this week opened its first casino in five years under a growth
strategy that relies on local partners for investment. It owns
20 percent of the $350 million Horseshoe Casino Cleveland and
will receive fees for managing it on behalf of majority owner
Rock Gaming LLC. Projects in Cincinnati, Baltimore and East
Boston,  Massachusetts , take a similar course.  Paulson said Caesars earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization may grow to $3.2 billion in the
next several years. Ebitda was $2.1 billion last year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Caesars shares have risen 50 percent since the company’s
initial public offering in February to close at $13.48 yesterday
in  New York  trading. Paulson holds 12.4 million shares of the
company valued at $182.4 million, according to this week’s SEC
filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  