-- Pfizer Lung Drug Stops Deadly Child Cancers in Study
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2012-05-17T20:05:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/pfizer-lung-drug-stops-deadly-child-cancers-in-study.html
A  Pfizer (PFE)  Inc. drug that has
transformed treatment for adult lung cancers caused by a gene
defect is now saving children with deadly tumors.  Pfizer’s  Xalkori  eradicated signs of malignancy in some
kids with rare tumors of the nerves, blood and soft tissue,
according to findings released yesterday in advance of the
 American Society of Clinical Oncology  meeting that starts June
1. The three tumor types can be driven by ALK gene mutations
targeted by Xalkori.  The results show how medicines that target genetic flaws
can be first tested in one cancer and then rapidly applied to
other malignancies with the same gene abnormality. The drug
helped kids with all three tumors, with the most-impressive
results seen in a blood cancer called anaplastic large cell
lymphoma. In these cases, all signs of cancer vanished in seven
of eight kids who got the drug.  “This is a glimpse of the new paradigm” of cancer drug
development, said  Michael Link , a Stanford University pediatric
cancer specialist and president of the  American Society of
Clinical Oncology , on a conference call with reporters. By
understanding the molecular drivers of the tumors, “we have the
prospect of seeing dramatic responses.”  By identifying the genetic drivers of pediatric tumors,
scientists may be able to take targeted drugs already approved
for adults and apply them to children.  In an interview, Link called the initial results “really
extraordinary.”  Pfizer fell less than 1 percent to $22.56 at the close of
New York trading.  Nerve and Tissue Cancers  The Pfizer drug also eliminated measurable signs of cancer
in 2 of 27 kids with neuroblastoma, a rare nerve cell cancer,
who had failed standard therapy. The drug also shrank tumors in
2 of 7 children with  inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor , a rare
malignancy of soft tissues.  The trial was sponsored by the government-funded Children’s
Oncology Group, a consortium of experts, children’s hospitals,
cancer centers and universities, and also received support from
New York-based Pfizer, the world’s largest drugmaker.  While it is far too soon to tell if any of the children are
cured, “these are very promising results for kids who
historically have had very few options and no hope,” Yael
Mosse, a pediatric oncologist at the Children’s Hospital of
Philadelphia and the study’s lead researcher, said in an
interview. “They have their whole lives ahead of them.”  About 120 kids in the U.S. each year develop ALK-positive
lymphoma, while 100 get  neuroblastoma  that contains defects in
the ALK gene, Mosse said.  Advanced Testing Planned  Mosse said the researchers plan to begin a final-stage
trial of the Pfizer drug in kids with lymphoma by the end of the
year. The goal is to use the Pfizer drug for all children newly
diagnosed with this type of lymphoma and replace some of the
toxic chemotherapy that is used today, she said.  It is “a major opportunity” to lessen the intensity of
chemotherapy so that cure comes at less of a cost, she said.  Zach Witt is one child who was helped by the drug, said his
mother Pam Witt, who lives in outer suburbs of Philadelphia, in
a phone interview. The 6-year-old developed lymphoma in
September 2010 and relapsed in the middle of his chemotherapy
treatment in early April of 2011.  He soon developed high fevers and became so weak that he
couldn’t make it to the hospital playroom just down the hall
from his room, she said.  Doctors at the  Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia  gave her
and her husband a choice of putting Zach on a more toxic chemo
regimen or going into the trial of Xalkori. They chose the
Xalkori.  Being a Kid Again  By the third day on the drug, Zach was running to the
hospital playroom, she said. Today he is out of the hospital,
and “does everything any other kid would do,” she said. He is
so energetic he recently went on a 21-mile bike ride with his
father, she said.  “I don’t think Zach would be here” without the Pfizer
drug, she said.  Child and adult cancer drug testing “used to operate in
separate universes,” said Rob Sweetman, a senior director at
Pfizer’s cancer unit. “Now we understand these molecular
drivers that are connecting these two that weren’t as obvious
before.”  Sweetman said Pfizer is carefully monitoring the progress
of the child trials and will make a determination whether to
seek regulatory approval for the child uses when more data is
available.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in  New York  at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  