-- Philippine Peso Rises From 2-Month Low as Drop Excessive
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-05-17T08:40:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/philippine-peso-rises-from-2-month-low-as-drop-excessive.html
The  Philippine peso  rallied from a
two-month low after a technical indicator suggested recent
declines in regional currencies were excessive. Bonds were
unchanged.  The peso has lost 1.6 percent so far this month as concern
 Europe ’s debt crisis is worsening deterred investors from buying
emerging-market assets. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar
Index’s 14-day relative strength indicator, which measures the
momentum of changes, was below 30 in the past three days. A
level below 30 or above 70 suggests a currency may reverse
direction.  “It’s a technical bounce in favor of the regional
currencies,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , chief market strategist at
 BDO Unibank Inc. (BDO)  in Manila. “That doesn’t mean the market has
digested the uncertainty in the  euro zone , particularly Greece.
In the next few weeks, the 43.50 peso level might be tested.”  The peso climbed 0.3 percent to 42.915 per dollar in
Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency touched
43.08 yesterday, the weakest level since March 23. One-month
implied volatility, which measures exchange-rate swings used to
price options, fell 25 basis points to 6.5 percent. The Asia
Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-active
currencies excluding the yen, gained 0.1 percent today.  Philippine Economic Planning Secretary Arsenio Balisacan
said today this year’s growth target of 5 percent to 6 percent
is “doable”, citing infrastructure as the growth driver.  A second election in less than two months threatens to
extend the political deadlock that has left  Greece  without a
government since the last vote on May 6.  The yield on the Philippines’ 5.875 percent bonds due March
2032 was unchanged at 5.97 percent, according to prices from
Tradition Financial Services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  