-- Manufacturing in Philadelphia Region Unexpectedly Contracts
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-05-17T14:38:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/philadelphia-fed-manufacturing-index-decreased-to-5-8-in-may.html
Manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region unexpectedly shrank in May for the first time in eight
months, reflecting a drop in orders and employment.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s  general economic
index  fell to minus 5.8 this month, the lowest reading since
September, from 8.5 in the previous month. Economists forecast
the gauge would rise to 10, according to the median estimate in
a Bloomberg News survey. Readings less than zero signal
contraction in the area covering eastern  Pennsylvania , southern
 New Jersey  and  Delaware .  Slower economies in Europe and  China  may restrain exports
and limit orders to U.S. factories, which have been a mainstay
of the almost three-year-old expansion. At the same time,
increased demand for  automobiles , which sold in the first
quarter at the fastest pace in four years, is helping underpin
manufacturing.  “We’re in a choppy and uneven recovery,” said Sean Incremona, a senior economist at 4Cast Inc. in New York, who had
the lowest forecast in the Bloomberg survey. “This is a
disappointment. It only goes to show us that the recovery as a
whole isn’t gathering any momentum.”  Stocks extended earlier losses immediately after the report
and then recovered. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.3
percent to 1,320.91 at 10:36 a.m. in New York on concern about
 Europe ’s debt crisis.  Estimates from 59 economists surveyed by Bloomberg ranged
from 2.5 to 14.  Other Reports  Other reports today showed More Americans than forecast
filed applications for  unemployment benefits  last week, the
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index dropped to the lowest level in
almost four months, and the index of leading economic indicators
unexpectedly decreased in April.  The Philadelphia Fed’s new orders measure decreased to
minus 1.2, the lowest level since September, from 2.7 in April.
A gauge of employment dropped to minus 1.3 in May, the lowest
level since June 2010, from an 11-month high of 17.9.  A measure of shipments gauge climbed to 3.5 from 2.8, while
the index of the average workweek decreased to minus 5.4 this
month from minus 2.3 in April.  The Philadelphia Fed’s report also showed inflation was
retreating. The bank’s gauge of prices paid dropped to 5, the
lowest level since July 2009. The measure of prices received
declined to minus 4.5, the first negative reading since August.  Sentiment Gauge  Individual measures in the index don’t contribute to the
headline reading, so some economists consider it a gauge of
sentiment among manufacturers.  The region’s manufacturers also turned more pessimistic
about the future. The index of the outlook for six months from
now dropped to 15, the lowest since August, from 33.8 in April.  The Philadelphia Fed’s index was at odds with other
regional data. Manufacturing in the  New York  area expanded at a
faster pace in May, a report this week from the New York Fed
showed. The bank’s general economic measure, the so-called
Empire State index, climbed to 17.1 from April’s 6.6.  Economists monitor Philadelphia and New York Fed factory
reports for clues about the Institute for Supply Management
national figures on manufacturing. The ISM will release its next
report June 1.  Deere & Co. (DE)  and other U.S. manufacturers continue to
benefit from a global economy that is showing “impressive
strength and endurance,” said Susan Karlix, manager of investor
communications for the Moline, Illinois company.  Demand Holding Up  “Demand continues to be strong, especially for high-
horsepower equipment, a reflection of positive conditions in the
global farm economy,” Karlix said in a May 16 earnings call.
“And used equipment levels are low. In fact, we ended the
second quarter with used tractor and combine levels well below a
year ago.”  Manufacturing is also being boosted by a stronger  auto
industry . Auto sales in the first quarter averaged an annual
rate of 14.5 million, the strongest since the same three months
in 2008, according to Ward’s Automotive Group data.  Factory output, which makes up about 75 percent of
industrial production, climbed 0.6 percent, a Fed report
yesterday showed. Half of the gain was due to a pickup in auto
production.  Even with the stronger automobile demand, Europe remains a
risk to the U.S. expansion.  Several Fed policy makers said a loss of momentum in growth
or increased risks to their economic outlook could warrant
additional action to keep the recovery on track, according to
minutes of their last meeting released yesterday.  The members of the rate-setting  Federal Open Market
Committee  “indicated that additional monetary policy
accommodation could be necessary if the economic recovery lost
momentum or the downside risks to the forecast became great
enough,” according to minutes of the panel’s April 24-25
meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  