-- Plavix's Loss Means Little Gain by Rival Blood Thinners
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-05-17T20:15:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/plavix-patent-loss-doesn-t-mean-gain-by-competing-blood-thinners.html
Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  and  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) 
won’t have an easier time gaining more of the market for blood
thinners dominated by  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s Plavix after
the drug loses U.S. patent protection today.  Lilly’s Effient and AstraZeneca’s Brilinta will be used
mostly by new patients who are beginning therapy, said  Barbara Ryan , an analyst with Deutsche Bank who has a buy rating on New
York-based Bristol-Myers’s stock. Plavix, and now the copycat
pills that will hit the market, are still expected to dominate.  “Managed care has made it more difficult in general for
the adoption of new products,” Ryan said in a telephone
interview. “Plavix has been around a while. It’s very
effective, it’s a safe drug. Effient and Brilinta are really
competing for new patient starts.”  Bristol-Myers  fell  less than 1 percent to $32.75 at the
close of  New York  trading. Lilly also declined less than 1
percent to $40.53. AstraZeneca rose less than 1 percent to 2,642
pence in  London .  More than 50 million people in the U.S. have taken Plavix
since it was approved by regulators in 1997, according to
Christina Trank, a Bristol-Myers spokeswoman. Now though, the
company is winding down promotion of the pill and stopped
advertising it last year.  Bristol-Myers said it will still push to have patients keep
taking the brand, and is offering a “Plavix Choice Program”
card that will let them get the medicine for $37 a month.  Competitors’ Sales  None of the newer blood thinners are expected to match the
$7.09 billion Plavix sold in 2011, according to  Seamus Fernandez , an analyst with Leerink Swann & Co. who follows all
three companies. Sanofi, based in Paris, reported $2.76 billion
in revenue last year from the drug, which it co-promotes with
Bristol-Myers.  Fernandez estimates Effient sales will peak in 2017 at $865
million, an increase from $303 million last year. Brilinta may
reach $1.77 billion by then. Lilly is based in Indianapolis,
AstraZeneca in London.  Bristol-Myers has said it’s well prepared for the loss of
the drug, pointing to the company’s “string of pearls”
strategy to refill its pipeline with small and mid-size deals.
The drugmaker is interested in buying San Diego-based  Amylin
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN)  and its diabetes drugs Bydureon and Byetta,
which generated more than $650 million in revenue last year,
Bloomberg reported on May 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  