-- Postal Service Sticking With Plan to Close Mail Plants
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-05-17T17:50:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/postal-service-said-ready-to-shut-plants-to-save-1-2-billion.html
The U.S.  Postal Service , after
backing off plans to close rural post offices, will stick with
its proposal to shut mail-processing centers, eliminating
5 percent of its workforce and saving $2.1 billion annually.  The service, after a loss of $3.2 billion in the quarter
ended March 31 and predicting it will temporarily run out of
cash in October, intends to close about 140 plants in the next
year and about 90 in 2014, Chief Operating Officer Megan Brennan
told reporters today on a conference call. A first phase will
save $1.2 billion a year, she said.  The service has forecast a $9.1 billion loss for the fiscal
year ending Sept. 30 and had said it might shut as many as 223
of its 461 processing plants to consolidate operations in fewer
places as mail volume declines. Lawmakers including U.S. Senator
 Bernie Sanders , a Vermont independent who caucuses with
Democrats, have asked the service to keep the plants open,
including one that employs 250 people in his state.  “It would severely degrade service to the American
people,” said Sally Davidow, a spokeswoman for the American
Postal Workers Union. “It also would disregard requests by
numerous members of Congress that the USPS extend the moratorium
on plant and post office closures until postal reform is
enacted.”  GSA Mail Cutbacks  The service agreed last week to cut hours at its smallest
post offices rather than pursue closings amid congressional
pressure to retain the facilities. Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe is urging the U.S. House to consider legislation that
would relieve the service of some financial obligations.  “We need to be very efficient in the way that we run our
network if we’re ever going to return to financial viability,”
Donahoe said on the conference call.  The closings will eliminate 28,000 jobs through attrition,
Brennan said. About 158,000 workers are eligible for retirement,
the Postal Service inspector general’s office said in a report
this month.  A mail customers group praised the announcement as a the
service moving toward cutting costs.  “Some may disagree with the specific decisions that were
made but all should agree that the Postal Service must shrink to
match its current and foreseeable volume of mail,” said Art Sackler, coordinator of the Coalition for a 21st Century Postal
Service, whose members include  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  FedEx
Corp. (FDX)   Closings Suspension  The closings will be suspended from September through
December for the U.S. November elections and the peak year-end
holiday mailing period, the service said in a memorandum faxed
yesterday to postal unions.  “We have less revenue to cover the cost of the
infrastructure as well as excess capacity throughout the
network,” Brennan said.  To close plants, the service needs to relax its internal
mail-delivery standards that require it to deliver some first-
class mail overnight.  As the service attempts to cut $20 billion in annual
operating costs by 2015, the U.S. General Services
Administration instructed government agencies this month to
reduce their mail spending.  The GSA, in a May 2  memo  to executive branch agencies that
became effective immediately, told them to reduce hard-copy
mailings between agencies, to pre-sort mail by ZIP code and
consolidate mailings to get postage discounts. The GSA also said
to save money by using flat-rate boxes and envelopes provided by
the Postal Service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  