-- Power Grid Stocks Fall as Russia Delays RAB Tariff Revision
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-05-17T16:23:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/power-grid-stocks-fall-as-russia-delays-rab-tariff-revision-1-.html
Power stocks slumped on a report that
 Russia  is delaying a revision of long-term tariffs for power
distributors by four months to Nov. 1.  OAO MRSK Holding, the management company for interregional
distributors, fell 5.1 percent to 2.011 rubles by the close in
Moscow. OAO MRSK Yuga lost 3.3 percent to 5.32 kopeks. Federal
Grid Co., the monopoly for high-voltage transmission, dropped
0.1 percent to 22.79 kopeks, narrowing losses of as much as 4.8
percent earlier. A kopek is one-hundredth of a ruble.  Acting First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  approved
the postponement after Federal Grid sought time for MRSK
Holding’s regional power distributors to approve investment
programs under the so-called regulatory asset base, or RAB,
regulation, Kommersant said today, citing the May 15 order.
Federal Grid is taking over management of MRSK Holding.  “The news is negative for grid companies, including
Federal Grid and MRSKs, since investors were expecting to
receive clarity on RAB tariffs by June 1,” Alfa Bank analysts
led by Alexander Kornilov wrote in a note, referring to
interregional power distributing companies using abbreviation
from Russian. “The new postponement does not make the grid
companies more attractive as it keeps their earnings visibility
the poorest in the whole power sector.”  Power distribution tariffs will be raised as planned by 11
percent from July 1, except under the RAB system, which is a
method of setting tariffs based on the return on invested
capital, Kommersant reported.  OAO Mosenergo, the Moscow-based power generator controlled
by OAO Gazprom, lost 4.8 percent to 1.4654 rubles, the lowest
price since July 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  