-- Prokhorov’s Intergeo Hires Morgan Stanley, BMO for Canada IPO
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2012-05-17T19:54:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/prokhorov-s-intergeo-hires-morgan-stanley-bmo-for-canada-ipo.html
Intergeo MMC Ltd. (0419650D) , a mining company
controlled by Russian billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , hired
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  and BMO Capital Markets Corp. to organize an
initial public offering of shares in  Canada .  Intergeo registered a preliminary prospectus with
regulators, the company said yesterday in a statement. The
number of shares and price will be set later, Intergeo said.  The company will sell a stake as large as 10 percent and
may raise $100 million to $500 million, said a person familiar
with the situation who declined to be identified because the
details haven’t been made public. The IPO isn’t certain to
proceed because of market volatility, the person said.  Prokhorov kept some mining licenses after selling his stake
in OAO  Norilsk Nickel ,  Russia ’s largest metals producer, in
2008. At the time, he pledged to form a global mining company
from scratch to rival Norilsk, with potentially $10 billion of
investment in five years. The Intergeo venture planned to sell
shares in Toronto, Maxim Finsky, a partner in the project, said
in June.  Intergeo plans to focus on developing the Ak-Sug copper and
Kingash nickel projects, both in southern Siberia, according to
the company’s IPO prospectus. Ak-Sug holds 1.8 million tons of
copper resources, while Kingash contains 310,000 tons of nickel,
the document shows.  Andrey Belyak, a spokesman for Prokhorov’s Onexim Group,
declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  