-- Prudential Becomes Fifth U.K. Firm to Suffer Pay Revolt
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-05-17T16:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/prudential-becomes-fifth-u-k-firm-to-suffer-pay-revolt.html
Prudential Plc (PRU) , the U.K.’s biggest
insurer, became at least the fifth British firm to suffer a
revolt on pay in the last three weeks as 30 percent of investors
voted against its compensation report.  Shareholders raised “specific issues” over pay, Chairman
Harvey McGrath said at the insurer’s annual meeting at London’s
Queen Elizabeth II center in Westminster today. “We will, of
course, engage with them to understand their concerns and to
consult with them on how best to structure our remuneration.”  Prudential is the latest company to come under pressure in
a surge of protest from investors who have rebelled against the
pay reports of  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Aviva Plc (AV/) ,  Trinity Mirror Plc (TNI) ,
 William Hill Plc (WMH)  and  Pendragon Plc. (PDG)  The protest prompted the
chief executive officers of both Aviva and Trinity Mirror to
step down.  Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. , a proxy voting
agency owned by  MSCI Inc. (MSCI) , advised investors to reject
Prudential’s pay report, highlighting changes to the company’s
long-term incentive plan and double-digit salary increases for
Chief Executive Officer Tidjane Thiam and Chief Financial
Officer Nic Nicandrou for 2012.  ‘Automatic Increase’  “Increased performance should not by itself lead to an
automatic increase in the overall remuneration opportunity, but
should rather work itself through existing bonus and LTIP plans,
which should be established with sufficient headroom to provide
for exceptional performance in their annual award,” ISS said in
a report earlier this month.  ISS also criticized Prudential’s decision to “move the
goalposts” for prior bonuses for  Barry Stowe , CEO of the
insurer’s Asian business. Prudential changed the metrics used to
calculate Stowe’s long-term pay for performance in 2009, 2010
and 2011, ISS said.  Stowe earned 2.3 million pounds ($3.6 million) last year,
and is expected to earn a further 2.34 million pounds from his
LTIP awards for the period ending Dec. 31, 2011, according to
Prudential’s  annual report .  Pension & Investment Research Consultants Ltd. , which
advises investors with 1.5 trillion pounds of assets, also told
shareholders to vote against Prudential’s pay report. The proxy
voting agency cited “highly excessive” bonus and LTIP awards
and said three unnamed executives, who don’t sit on the board,
were paid 26 million pounds between them in 2011.  Prudential has been delivering “outstanding returns” in
tough economic conditions, McGrath told shareholders at the
meeting. “Rewards are aligned with demonstrably excellent
performance,” he said. The shares have risen 64 percent since
McGrath became chairman in March 2009.  Raised Dividend  The insurer’s profit rose 7 percent last year to 2.1
billion pounds and is set to double 2009 earnings from  Asia  by
next year, it said. The company raised its dividend 20 percent
in 2010 and a further 5.6 percent last year.  Thiam made 4.7 million pounds last year including expected
long-term awards and Nicandrou earned 3.6 million pounds. Thiam
will receive an 11 percent salary increase this year while
Nicandrou will get a 15 percent rise.  The company’s highest paid executive director last year was
Michael McLintock, head of fund management unit M&G, who
received 7.6 million pounds including 6 million pounds in long-
term incentive pay.  Prudential is rewarding McLintock after M&G grew to be the
U.K.’s second-biggest retail fund manager, up from fifth-largest
four years ago, as investors flocked to its bond funds in the
aftermath of the financial crisis. M&G’s funds under management
grew 2 percent to 201 billion pounds even as the MSCI World
Index dropped 7.6 percent in the year.  Prudential shares fell 2.1 percent to 686 pence in  London 
trading today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 