-- Putin Holds Key to Ending Syrian Bloodshed
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-17T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/putin-holds-key-to-ending-syrian-bloodshed.html
When NATO leaders meeting in  Chicago 
this weekend take up the continued bloodshed in Syria, their
best course of action is to have a long, hard talk with  Russia 
about what it would take to turn the United Nation’s undermanned
monitors into a robust, well equipped peace-keeping force.  Russia’s leaders have been disgracefully cynical throughout
the Syrian uprising. They have armed and supported President
Bashar Al-Assad’s regime, and they provide diplomatic cover for
his mendacious and self-fulfilling claims that unarmed
opposition protesters were armed insurgents. Yet Russia’s
position has also been oversimplified.  Top officials in Moscow believe they were duped last year
into backing a humanitarian Security Council  resolution  on
 Libya , which the Western and Gulf Arab powers interpreted as a
license for military intervention and regime change. The result,
in Russian eyes, was a zero-sum economic and geopolitical loss
for them. The Western air campaign also set a further precedent
for intervention against authoritarian regimes that could one
day be used against clients closer to home -- perhaps in Central
Asia or the Caucasus.  So Russia’s leaders are bitter, perhaps contributing to
President  Vladimir Putin ’s decision to snub the G-8 summit that
runs back-to-back with the NATO meeting. Russia will veto any UN
resolution that could be used to justify military intervention.
It will also stand -- together with  Iran  and to a lesser extent
China -- on the other side of any military action that
circumvents the UN, in a revival of Cold War-era proxy wars that
could have unpredictable, long-term ramifications beyond Syria
or even the  Middle East .  This doesn’t mean, though, that the Russians are wedded to
keeping Assad in power. What it does suggest is that they would
have to play a leading role in any managed transition. Russia
would have to be among the winners.  That isn’t a very inspiring proposition for anyone -- it’s
hardly in keeping with the democratic goals of  Syria ’s Arab
Spring, when it broke out last year. Worse, to get such an
attempt off the ground, U.S., Turkish, Saudi and other leaders
would have to end their insistence that Assad and his clique
 step down , a major change of policy. They’d also have to
persuade the Syrian opposition to accept Assad as an
interlocutor for peace talks. Russia, meanwhile, would risk
exposing the limits of its influence over Assad in persuading
him to abide by a true cease-fire.  In fact, the only options less attractive than this are all
the others, starting with arming the two sides in preparation
for a long, Bosnia-style conflict -- the only policy gathering
momentum.  What about the possibility of the U.S. and its allies
acting outside the UN, where Russia wields a veto? That’s what
NATO did in Kosovo in 1999, after Russia and  China  vetoed a
draft Security Council resolution that would have authorized use
of force to protect ethnic Albanians in the Serb province. The
78-day  air campaign  worked -- but only after the allies started
preparations for a land invasion, causing Russia to pressure
 Slobodan Milosevic  to capitulate.  Military options for Syria that circumvent Russia’s UN veto
include arming the rebels, creating safe zones by force of
(mainly Turkish) arms, or Libya and Kosovo-style coalition air
strikes to support the Free Syrian Army. All of these ideas have
proponents.  But before demanding any use of force, policy makers must
decide whether they’d be willing to undertake a boots-on-the-
ground invasion of Syria to topple the regime, followed by Iraq-
style nation building. Because, as an excellent Brookings
Institution  analysis  lays out and the  Kosovo  experience
suggests, each of the other military options risks failure, in
which case a choice has to be made: admit defeat, or escalate.
Invasion may lie at the end of that road.  The U.S. and NATO should prepare for military action, as
we’ve said before. A credible threat, as in Kosovo, could help
spur Russia and Assad to change their stance. In the meantime,
diplomacy alone offers few promising avenues. That’s why the
international community is relying on former UN Secretary
General  Kofi Annan ’s unarmed, undermanned, undermandated and so
far unsuccessful observer mission to provide a solution.  The Annan plan does have one significant plus: the backing
of Russia and China. Annan should raise the stakes by making it
clear to Assad, the Russians and others that the terms and scale
of the mission have to change quickly if he’s to continue. Not
all peacekeeping missions have to be so weak. In 1996, the
 UNTAES  mission in a tiny sliver of Eastern Croatia quickly
 deployed  just fewer than 3,600 personnel, mostly combat troops,
armed with 49 tanks, 180 armored personnel carriers, 12
howitzers, six assault and six transport helicopters. Russians
and Ukrainians made up a third of the force at the start.  The situation in Syria is far more challenging, and Assad
would only agree to a robust peacekeeping force, even one that’s
Russian-led, if he felt he was on the ropes. Success would also
leave a sour taste, for all involved. But it would lower the
risk of Syria spiraling downward to become a failed state arena
for al-Qaeda, spreading instability to Lebanon, Jordan,  Iraq ,
 Turkey  or even  Israel . That contagion is the main threat to the
region and to U.S. interests.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  job polarization ;
William Pesek on  China’s declining soft power ; Andrew Razeghi on
 jump-starting startups ; Vali Nasr on  Europe and Iran ; Rachelle
Bergstein on  corporate pumps ;  Mark Taylor  on  competing colleges ;
Ted Gayer and Phillip Swagel on  mortgage-principal deductions .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 