-- Quebec Government Plans Legislation to Halt Student Boycott
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-05-17T01:31:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/quebec-government-plans-legislation-to-halt-student-boycott.html
Quebec  will introduce emergency
legislation aimed at ending a three-month-old boycott by
university and community college students that has sparked
violent clashes and vandalism in Montreal and other cities.  Semesters at 11 universities and 14 community colleges,
known as CEGEPS, will be suspended until August unless
agreements can be reached with student organizations, Quebec
Premier Jean Charest said today at a televised news conference
in Quebec City. The law will guarantee students access to
education while planned tuition increases are maintained,
Charest said.  About 155,000 university and high school students across
Quebec have been boycotting classes since Feb. 13 to protest
against a planned increase in tuition fees due to take effect in
September. Quebec, which has the lowest student fees in  Canada ,
was initially planning to boost fees by C$1,625 ($1,607), or 75
percent, over five years before offering to spread a larger
increase over seven years. The dispute is the longest in
provincial history.  Even with the boycott, about 70 percent of all university
and community college students in Quebec have either finished or
are in the process of finishing their school year, Education
Minister Michelle Courchesne said. Courchesne was named to the
post yesterday when her predecessor, Line Beauchamp, resigned
after negotiations with student unions failed, saying she hoped
to spark “an electrical shock.”  “It’s time for calm to return,” Charest said. “We will
propose a solution that allows for the tension to abate. Access
to education is a right. The current situation has lasted long
enough.”  ‘Social Peace’  Charest urged student leaders, politicians and union
leaders to “clearly and unreservedly” back “social peace” in
the province. He declined to say when the law will be
introduced, saying only it will be “soon,” adding his
government will “keep open the lines of communication” with
student organizations.  Demonstrators in  Montreal  and elsewhere have blocked
bridges, roads and access to colleges and universities at
various times since the dispute began, dominating television and
newspaper coverage in Canada’s second-most-populous province.
Four students were arrested this month after smoke bombs forced
the closure of Montreal’s subway system.  Opponents of the tuition increase have held nightly marches
in Montreal, the province’s largest city, for the past three
weeks.  The conflict even prompted the U.S. consulate to issue a
 “security message”  on April 27, urging U.S. citizens to avoid
the areas of demonstrations and to “exercise caution” if
within the vicinity of any protests.  Quebec unveiled plans last year to boost tuition fees as
part of a plan to plug a budget gap. Finance Minister Raymond
Bachand in March reaffirmed his goal to balance the budget by
2013-14. Pauline Marois, who leads the separatist Parti
Quebecois, has said she would cancel the tuition increase if
elected.  Leo Bureau-Blouin, chief spokesman for one of the three
main students unions, told reporters in  Quebec City  today that
his group would contest any legislation aimed at ending the
boycott.  Quebec’s bar association today  called on  the government and
the students to give negotiations “a new chance." Both parties 
should resume talks under the supervision of a mediation panel 
made up of three independent experts, Louis Masson, the 
association’s chairman, said in the press release.  Student leaders agreed to a settlement with the government
earlier this month after round-the-clock talks in Quebec City,
only for their members to later reject the deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  