-- Pinterest Valuation $1.5 Billion After Fresh Financing
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2012-05-17T13:52:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/rakuten-leads-100-million-investment-in-social-network-service.html
Pinterest, an image-based social
network, raised $100 million in a financing round that values
the company at about $1.5 billion, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter.  Pinterest, based in  Palo Alto , California, will use the
funds to develop country-specific sites, such as Pinterest
China, said the person, who declined to be named because the
plans aren’t public.  Rakuten Inc. (4755) ,  Japan ’s biggest online shopping-site
operator, led the round and was joined by investors including
venture-capital firms FirstMark Capital, Bessemer Venture
Partners and Andreessen Horowitz, Rakuten said in a  statement 
today.  “We see a high potential in Pinterest that is growing at
an accelerated pace,” Hirotoshi Kato, a Rakuten spokesman, said
by telephone. “We will reinforce the social area.”  Pinterest operates a social networking site where users can
collect and share photos on the Internet by pinning them to a
virtual bulletin board. Users can re-pin others’ finds, which
can range from recipes to wedding dresses. Rakuten will soon add
“pin it” buttons on its site to let users share pictures of
their purchase ideas.  The Japanese  Internet company  has invested in online
businesses including Brazilian online retailer Ikeda to expand
around the world. The Tokyo-based company’s flagship shopping
portal,  Rakuten Ichiba , connects merchants to customers looking
for a one-stop shop for products from electronics to pajamas.  Pinterest had 11.7 million visitors as of January, and can
use Rakuten’s subsidiaries to expand in Asia and  Europe ,
according to the statement.  Rakuten’s investments over the past 12 months include the
purchase of a 75 percent stake in Brazilian e-commerce business
Ikeda last year for an undisclosed amount.  The company in September announced plans to buy Play
Holdings Ltd., a U.K.-based operator of an online retail site,
for 25 million pounds ($40 million) in cash.  Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News, is an investor in
Andreessen Horowitz.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  