-- Treasury Weighs Selling TARP Bank Shares in Pools
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-05-17T20:02:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/treasury-weighs-selling-tarp-bank-shares-in-pools.html
The  U.S. Treasury  may pool stakes in
small banks bailed out during the financial crisis to entice
potential investors as the Obama administration winds down the
Troubled Asset Relief Program.  “Some of the investments are smaller and it may not be
possible to auction them individually,” Tim Massad, the
Treasury Department’s assistant secretary for financial
stability, said in an interview. “So one of the things we’re
looking at is pooling those investments together.”  The  Treasury’s plan  reflects the challenge of unwinding
holdings in lenders that are still trying to recover from the
six-year residential real estate slump. By combining stakes of
small banks, the department may be able to attract investors who
would not want to buy shares of those banks individually.  Most of the 343 bailed-out banks still in TARP will be
unable to repay $12 billion in taxpayer funds they hold,
according to the Treasury. For those banks that don’t repay, the
administration will try to sell its stakes in the remaining
lenders through auctions, and if it can’t, will then pool
together shares of different institutions, Massad said.  As of April 30, the Treasury’s biggest remaining bank
investments were $968 million in Columbus, Georgia-based  Synovus
Financial Corp. (SNV) ; $935 million in  Popular Inc. (BPOP) , Puerto Rico’s
largest lender; and a $700 million stake in Salt Lake City-based
 Zions Bancorporation. (ZION)   ‘Right Price’  “These institutions should be attractive to someone out
there at the right price,” said  Phillip Swagel , former
assistant Treasury secretary for economic policy in the  George
W. Bush  administration and now a professor at the  University of
Maryland  in  College Park . “It is appropriate for the Treasury
to find the price at which it can sell off these stakes, even if
that involves crystallizing a loss on some of these TARP
investments.”  Winding down TARP will extend “into next year and probably
beyond that,” Massad said in the May 9 interview. Auctions will
be conducted “in stages, which we believe will help build the
procedures and the markets for auctioning these investments so
there is good participation.”  The Treasury estimates that taxpayers will make a $20
billion profit from the bank portion of TARP. Most of that gain
comes from funds repaid by firms including  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  That will offset
losses that Massad said he expects from smaller institutions.  Community Banks  Community banks face “an uphill battle to exit TARP because
they cannot find new capital” to replace government funds,
TARP’s watchdog said in an April 25 report. “Many smaller and
medium-size banks are still feeling the effects of the crisis
and are not exiting TARP with the same speed as the larger
banks,” the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset
Relief Program said.  The Treasury began selling preferred stock in six banks on
March 26 -- including  Banner Corp. (BANR)  of Walla Walla, Washington,
and Charleston, South Carolina-based  First Financial Holdings
Inc. (FFCH)  -- that were bailed out with $410.8 million in TARP funds.
Overall, taxpayers got back $426 million -- $361 million through
the auctions and $65 million in dividends and interest.  Investment firm Houlihan Lokey has been the Treasury’s
financial adviser on managing and selling TARP bank stakes.  The Treasury is reducing bank assets as the Obama
administration is trying to change public perceptions that the
bailouts, which were started by George W. Bush after the 2008
crisis and continued under President  Barack Obama  in 2009, were
too expensive or ineffective.  Bailout Programs  Treasury officials, in a presentation to reporters last
month, said the bailout programs overall may earn a profit for
taxpayers in the long term. That assessment includes the rescue
of banks and automakers under TARP as well as Federal Reserve
crisis measures such as large-scale asset purchases. The
estimate excludes the $825 billion stimulus package passed in
2009. TARP itself is projected to lose about $60 billion, the
officials said.  “The TARP program made capital available to banks, which
helped them weather the crisis,” Massad said in the interview.
“It worked. Our job now is to exit those investments, so we’re
doing that in part by attracting private capital to these
institutions through auctions or sales.”  The broader bailout program has become a more prominent
campaign issue as Obama has sharpened his attacks against
Republican candidate  Mitt Romney , who supported rescue funds for
banks while opposing help for automakers like  General Motors Co. (GM)   The administration’s eagerness to unwind TARP is driven in
part by the campaign, said Kip Weissman, a partner representing
banks for Luse Gorman Pomerenk & Schick P.C. in Washington.  “The timing is dictated by politics,” Weissman said.
“They are focused on the healthiest companies first and trying
to get them to repay.” For banks that can’t do that, the
approach will be “to pool a bunch of weak issuers together so
that there’s value, there’s diversity and there’s sufficient
size for investors to be interested.”  Under TARP, originally approved by Congress in 2008 as a
$700 billion dollar program to rescue financial institutions,
the Treasury put cash into banks in exchange for equity stakes.
Many bailout recipients repaid TARP funds, plus interest
payments on preferred shares.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  