-- Treasury Sells Inflation Notes at Record Low Negative Yield
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-05-17T18:48:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/treasury-sells-inflation-notes-at-record-low-negative-yield.html
The U.S. sold $13 billion of 10-year
inflation-indexed notes at a record negative yield with
investors willing to pay a premium to guard against the threats
of rising consumer prices and  Europe ’s worsening debt crisis.  The Treasury Inflation Protected Securities were sold at a
so-called high yield of negative  0.391 percent , the third
consecutive auction where investors paid the government to hold
their money. TIPS pay interest at lower rates than regular
Treasuries on a principal amount that’s adjusted based on the
Labor Department’s consumer price index.  While yields on Treasuries due in 10 years or less are
below the pace of inflation, demand is at record highs for  U.S.
government debt  amid competition for a dwindling supply of the
safest assets. The  International Monetary Fund  said last month
that the amount of global assets that investors consider “safe”
will shrink by $9 trillion by 2016.  “The demand for investors is very strong for both
inflation protection and safety,” said Aaron Kohli, an
interest-rate strategist at BNP Paribas SA in New York, one of
the  Federal Reserve ’s 21 primary dealers that are required to
bid at the auctions. “Cash still needs to be put to work, and
investors are looking for any sort of value. TIPS offer that
given the strong U.S. fundamentals relative to what else is out
there, and all the richness in other safe assets.”  The bid-to-cover  ratio  for the notes, which gauges demand
by comparing the amount bid with the amount offered, was 3.01,
the strongest since April 2010, and higher than the average of
2.73 at the past 10 auction of the securities.  Consumer Prices  The U.S. cost of living was unchanged in April, restrained
by a drop in energy prices and supporting the view of some Fed
policy makers that inflation will ease.  Last month’s consumer price index matched the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and followed
three straight gains that included a 0.3 percent rise in March,
Labor Department data showed May 15. The so-called core measure,
which excludes more volatile food and energy costs, rose 0.2
percent for a second month.  Slowing inflation is allowing the central bank to stick to
its plan to keep  interest rates  low at least until late 2014.  At the same time inflation-adjusted yields have been under
pressure as the Fed continues to extend the average maturity of
its $2.89 trillion securities portfolio, a program dubbed by
traders as Operation Twist, and maintains its policy of
reinvesting maturing housing debt into agency mortgage-backed
securities.  Fed’s Objective  “There is an underlying demand for longer dated inflation
protection as there is still a question on if inflation can be
contained when the Fed unwinds their massive stimulus,” said
 John Briggs , a bond strategist at primary dealer RBS Securities
Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  “Negative yields are a reflection of the overall low level
of rates and the Fed’s attempt to push people out of risk-free
assets into products that offer a positive real return,” Briggs
said.  Several Fed policy makers said a loss of momentum in growth
or increased risks to their economic outlook could warrant
additional action to keep the recovery on track, minutes of
their last meeting released yesterday showed.  The difference between yields on U.S. 10-year notes and
comparable TIPS, a gauge of expectations for inflation during
the life of the debt known as the  break-even  rate, was 2.11
percentage points. The average during the past decade is 2.15
percentage points.  TIPS Returns  Indirect bidders, a category of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 50.7 percent of the securities at
the sale today, compared to an average of 40.31 percent at the
past 10 auctions. Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors
that place their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 14.8
percent of the securities, versus an 11.36 percent average at
the past 10 auctions.  U.S. inflation-linked debt maturing in 10 or more years has
returned 5.1 percent this year, compared with a 1.1 percent gain
in the overall Treasury market, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  