-- Treasury Bonds Hold Advance on Spanish Banks
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-05-17T12:35:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/treasuries-fall-before-tips-sale-auction-announcement.html
Treasury 30-year bonds held a four-
day advance as shares of Spanish banks declined, adding to
concern the euro region’s crisis is infecting larger economies.  U.S. 10-year yields were little changed after reaching the
least since Oct. 4 yesterday. Investors are due to bid at a sale
of 10-year inflation-protected notes today and three auctions of
coupon-bearing debt next week. Treasuries dropped earlier after
a report showed  Japan ’s economy expanded faster than estimated
in the first quarter.  “One would expect that the ongoing euro crisis, which
certainly looks likely to intensify from here, would certainly
limit the upside to any move in bond yields,” said  Richard McGuire , a senior fixed-income strategist at Rabobank
International in  London . That would “argue in favor of the path
of least resistance remaining for lower yields on the back of
continued safe-haven flow.”  The 30-year  yield  fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 2.89 percent at 8:31 a.m. New York time, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3 percent bond due May 2042
rose 5/32, or $1.56 per $1,000 face amount, to 102 6/32. The 10-
year rate was little changed at 1.76 percent after rising as
much as three basis points to 1.79 percent.  Treasury notes erased a decline as Spanish lender  Bankia SA (BKIA) 
plunged as much as 29 percent after El Mundo reported that its
depositors were withdrawing their money.  Greek Concern  Greece ’s inability to form a government is fueling concern
the nation will renege on pledges to cut spending as required by
the terms of its two bailouts negotiated since 2010.  “Investors are flocking to safe assets,” said Bin Gao,
head of interest-rate research for  Asia  and the Pacific at Bank
of America Merrill Lynch in  Hong Kong . “If we get Greece
dropping out of the euro, I see much lower yields for U.S.
Treasuries.”  U.S. 10-year rates would approach 1.5 percent, he said,
below the record low of 1.67 percent.  The Treasury Inflation Protected Securities being sold
today yielded negative 0.387 percent, versus negative 0.089
percent for the March 22 sale, which was the  lowest-ever  auction
rate. Yields on seven-year notes, scheduled for sale May 24,
were at 1.18 percent after sliding to a record 1.1679 percent
yesterday.  Inflation Protection  The TIPS auction will total $13 billion, and the government
is scheduled to announce the size of next week’s sales today.  The U.S. will offer $35 billion of two-year securities on
May 22, the same amount of five-year debt on the following day
and $29 billion of seven-year notes on May 24, according to
Wrightson ICAP LLC, an economic advisory company in  Jersey City ,
 New Jersey , that specializes in  government finance .  U.S. inflation-protected notes pay interest on a principal
amount that increases at the same rate as the Labor Department’s
consumer price index.  The securities have handed investors a 13 percent gain in
the past year through yesterday, versus 8.8 percent for
conventional Treasuries, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and similar-
maturity TIPS, a gauge of trader expectations for consumer
prices over the life of the debt, was 2.08 percentage points.
The average during the past decade is 2.15 percentage points.  Fed Purchases  The five-year, five-year forward  break-even rate , a measure
of inflation expectations that the  Federal Reserve  uses to help
guide monetary policy, was 2.5 percentage points as of May 14.
The figure compares with 2012’s high of 2.78 percentage points
and the five-year average of 2.79 percentage points.  The Fed plans to buy as much as $2 billion of Treasuries
due from February 2036 to May 2042 today, according to the Fed
Bank of  New York ’s  website . The purchases are part of the
central bank’s program to replace $400 billion of shorter-term
debt in its holdings with longer maturities by the end of June
to help keep down borrowing costs.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index snapped a six-day drop earlier
after data showed Japan’s gross domestic product rose an
annualized 4.1 percent from the final three months of 2011. That
exceeded all but seven of 27 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists.  More Americans than forecast filed applications for
 unemployment benefits  last week, a sign the labor market is
making little progress.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  