-- Redecard Shorting Surge Shows Traders Bet Itau Bid to Fail
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o   a n d   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2012-05-17T20:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/redecard-shorting-surge-shows-traders-bet-itau-takeover-to-fail.html
Traders are stepping up wagers that
 Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4)  will fail in its effort to buy out
minority holders of  Redecard SA (RDCD3) , Brazil’s second-biggest card-
payment processor.  The amount of borrowed Redecard shares, an indication of
short selling, totaled 32 million yesterday, up from 6 million
shares on April 27, when the company said investor Lazard Asset
Management LLC requested a new appraisal of Itau’s bid for the
50 percent of the equity it doesn’t own. Short selling allows
traders to profit from drops by selling stock and buying it
later at a lower price.  “The short-selling indicates there is a bet the purchase
won’t happen and the shares will fall,” Paulo Ribeiro, an
analyst at HSBC Securities, said by phone from Sao Paulo.  Itau,  Latin America ’s biggest bank by market value, offered
11.8 billion reais ($5.9 billion), or 35 reais a share, on Feb.
7 to take full ownership of Redecard and delist it less than
five years after going public. NM Rothschild & Sons Ltda., the
first investment bank hired to determine the value, said shares
were worth as little as 34.18 reais. Lazard, Redecard’s second-
biggest investor with a 10 percent stake, said Rothschild
undervalued Redecard and shareholders will vote tomorrow on its
proposal to seek a second assessment.  Lazard Proposal  Redecard fell  1.7 percent to 32.10 reais in Sao Paulo
today, lower than Itau’s Feb. 7 bid and also below the stock’s
high this year of 36.40 reais, reached on Feb. 8. The Barueri-
based company has gained 10 percent this year, compared to a 41
percent advance for bigger rival  Cielo SA. (CIEL3)   Borrowed shares  in Redecard represented 4.8 percent of
stock outstanding yesterday, up from less than 1 percent on
April 27, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and Brazil’s
clearing and depository corporation. The stock outstanding
includes shares held by Itau. Investors in Brazil borrow stock
to use for short-selling, hedging and tax purposes.  Investors who borrowed shares are also allowed to vote
tomorrow as if they owned the stock, Mauro Cunha, president of
Brazil’s minority-shareholders association, said in a telephone
interview today.  Lazard’s proposal would require the company to hire Credit
Suisse AG to make a new appraisal of the shares’ fair value if
approved by Redecard’s minority shareholders tomorrow.  Lazard said in an April statement that the Rothschild
evaluation used “conservative” forecasts for sales and costs,
and a more accurate appraisal would take into account premiums
paid to shareholders in companies that have been acquired.  Value Estimates  Rothschild valued the stock at 34.18 reais to 37.59 reais
based in a free-cash flow calculation, the bank said on April 5.
It also said Redecard’s shares worth 36.13 reais to 37.11 reais
using a methodology based on Cielo’s stock price.  “The short selling is related to what will be decided
tomorrow in the shareholders meeting, whether the appraisal will
be approved,” said Fausto Gouveia, who helps manage 380 million
reais at Legan Administracao de Recursos in  Sao Paulo . “After
tomorrow’s meeting, things may get clearer about whether the old
appraisal of 35 reais to 36 reais will prevail or there will be
a new price.”  Lazard’s press office declined to comment. Itau’s press
office didn’t return a call seeking comment. Redecard’s press
office declined to comment. The Rothschild office in Sao Paulo
declined to comment.  Short Squeeze  The increase in borrowed shares may reflect a move by a
large investor to create a short squeeze should the stock rise,
Luis Gustavo Pereira, a strategist at Futuro Corretora in Sao
Paulo, said in a telephone interview today. Traders holding
short futures positions get “squeezed” when prices rise
rapidly, forcing them to pay a premium to maintain their
position or liquidate and cover their contracts.  “If the bid goes ahead, Redecard may reach 35 reais,” he
said. “The market is borrowing everything before the event.”  Itau said in an April 30 filing that it has no intention of
raising its bid regardless of a second appraisal. The Sao Paulo-
based lender also said it may give up its buyout plans if the
transaction can’t be completed in a timely manner.  “If the bid fails, Itau may seek to renegotiate the prices
of some services it provides Redecard,” said Ribeiro, who
estimates the shares are worth 39 reais each and  recommends 
investors buy the stock. “Itau would probably impose new fees
on Redecard, and the market may punish the shares.”  Novo Mercado  Itau had also warned that it may delist Redecard from
Bovespa’s Novo Mercado if shareholders didn’t accept the 35
reais bid. Itau said April 16 it would no longer pursue that
course of action after Brazil’s minority-shareholders
association said such a move would require approval by two-
thirds of holders.  Two-thirds of Redecard’s shareholders also must approve
Itau’s bid for it to go through. No date has been set for a
vote.  Redecard and its shareholders raised 4.07 billion reais in
its initial public offering in July 2007,  Brazil ’s biggest share
sale in five years at that time. The shares were priced at 27
reais each.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  