-- Triglav Insurer Plans to Sell Abanka After Turnaround, CEO Says
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-05-17T11:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/triglav-insurer-plans-to-sell-abanka-after-turnaround-ceo-says.html
Zavarovalnica Triglav (ZVTG)  d.d. Chief
Executive Officer Matjaz Rakovec said Slovenia’s biggest insurer
plans to sell its holding in  Abanka Vipa (ABKN)  d.d. after it helps the
country’s third largest lender to become profitable. Rakovec
spoke in an interview in Portoroz, Slovenia on May 15.  On the sale of Abanka in which Triglav is the single
largest  shareholder :  “Our ownership of Abanka is more of a burden than an
asset. At the moment, it would be irresponsible to other Abanka
shareholders just to sell this investment. We will try and help
them turn their business around, increase the share value and
find the right moment to exit the investment. The aim of Triglav
is to dispose of the stake.”  On Slovenia’s second  recession  in three years:  “The main problem is the uncertainty over the future.
Everybody seems to be careful on what they spend their money on.
We see the biggest drop in life insurance segment, that is long-
term savings as people deem them unnecessary at this moment when
they strive to survive. It’s a kind of a crunch, people are
giving up on their second cars and long-term investments.  ‘‘The other effect is on small companies which are going
down because they have been dependent on bigger firms. Late
payments are also a big problem in Slovenia. The situation is
demanding, but we are adapting our business to new
circumstances.’’  On first quarter  earnings  and the outlook for 2012:  ‘‘Similar to last our first quarter result is in line with
our plan while we are still dealing with asset write downs,
especially in Abanka and we also wrote down the value of Greek
bonds. I don’t expect big changes this year.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  