-- Romney Ropes Off Media to Avoid Making Unscripted Gaffes
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-05-17T04:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/romney-ropes-off-media-to-avoid-making-unscripted-gaffes.html
Mitt Romney ’s presidential campaign
is clamping down on unrehearsed comments by the presumed
Republican nominee, tightening control of his message to limit
gaffes as he courts a broader swath of the electorate that will
decide the November election.  Aides to the former Massachusetts governor, who has created
political headaches for himself with unscripted comments, have
taken to barring reporters from asking questions as he greets
voters and blocking the media from even observing the chats.  He has held question-and-answer sessions with national
reporters covering his campaign twice in the five weeks since he
sewed up the nomination.  Also, he has begun a practice of meeting privately with a
small group of voters before public events, for what aides call
“off-the-record” sessions to hear their concerns. Reporters
are shut off from the encounters.  That was the case yesterday in St. Petersburg,  Florida ,
where reporters covering Romney’s speech were told in advance
they couldn’t ask questions as the candidate greeted voters
along a security rope line.  Those who defied the order were blocked by Secret Service
agents and campaign volunteers and given stern warnings not to
try it again.  Staff Error  Campaign spokeswoman Andrea Saul called the incident a
mistake and said reporters will be free to witness Romney’s
flesh-pressing.  “This was an error on the part of the campaign staff and
volunteers,” Saul said in a statement. “Press is allowed on
the rope line.”  Still, the episode sheds light on a shift in Romney’s
campaign, from primaries in which he vied with Republican rivals
for attention to a one-on-one fight with President  Barack Obama .
There is a premium now on honing a message to compete with the
White House bully pulpit.  The candidate-seclusion rules aren’t universally applied.
Romney grants access to news outlets in competitive states -- he
taped four interviews yesterday in Florida -- and to those
regarded as friendly.  JP Morgan Remarks  In a podcast interview yesterday with blogger Ed Morrissey
of the website Hot Air, Romney responded to the Obama campaign’s
criticism of his private-equity work at Bain Capital LLC and
gave a reaction journalists had been seeking for days to  JP
Morgan (JPM) ’s $2 billion trading loss.  “The $2 billion JP Morgan lost, someone else gained,”
Romney said in the interview. “I would not rush to pass new
regulation or new legislation.”  Romney isn’t the only one largely off-limits to the press,
except in selected moments.  With round-the-clock Secret Service protection, Obama is
cloistered, his interactions with voters almost entirely limited
to meetings meticulously planned by his staff. His exchanges
with reporters are almost always in news conferences at a time
and place of his choosing.  Time-Honored Practice  “It’s par for the course,” going back as far as former
President  Richard Nixon ’s 1968 presidential campaign, said
Kathleen Hall Jamieson, a professor at the Philadelphia-based
Annenberg School for Communication at the  University of
Pennsylvania . “Once a candidate becomes the prospective
nominee, or knows that he has the nomination sewed up, the
campaign seeks to close the press off.”  That is especially true of Romney, who has suffered from
self-inflicted wounds when he veered off-script to draw
attention to his status as a wealthy former private-equity
executive. He also made news when answering shouted questions on
such issues as  Rush Limbaugh  calling a contraceptive-access
advocate a “slut,” the Trayvon Martin murder case in Florida
and whether he would have authorized the operation that killed
 Osama bin Laden .  “Of course, of course -- even  Jimmy Carter  would have
given that order,” Romney told reporters on the rope line in
Portsmouth,  New Hampshire , on April 30.  Showing New Discipline  By last week, he showed more discipline. Asked about same-
sex marriage after Obama had addressed the topic in a television
interview, Romney responded: “Not on the rope line.” His
campaign later scheduled a brief session with reporters to
respond to Obama’s announcement that he supported same-sex
marriage.  Romney made himself available to reporters on April 23 in
Chester Township,  Pennsylvania , as Obama’s campaign highlighted
the president’s push to freeze federal student loan interest
rates. When campaign aides sought to end the session after a few
questions -- none about  student loan  rates -- Romney returned to
the microphone to announce he backed Obama’s move.  Obama Media Avoidance  The president generally doesn’t respond to shouted
questions while greeting voters, though at times a White House
official will hint to a chosen reporter that one might be
welcomed. That was the case on March 23 when Obama, at a Rose
Garden appearance to introduce his nominee to run the  World
Bank , made his first public comments on the Trayvon Martin case.  The candidates leave the details of press interactions to
aides focused entirely on keeping the candidates on-message.  Chatting with reporters on his campaign plane yesterday,
Romney acted unaware that his campaign prevented reporters from
approaching him after the  St. Petersburg  event.  Gesturing to the front of the plane and his staff, Romney
joked that, after seeing him with reporters, his traveling press
secretary “is about to pass out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Coral Gables , Florida at  jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  