-- Wealthy Donor Refused to Fund Race-Tinged Obama Attack
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-05-17T22:21:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/romney-raises-40-million-rejects-super-pac-attack-plan.html
Mitt Romney  denounced a plan drafted
by Republican strategists to run a racially tinged advertising
campaign against President  Barack Obama  focusing on his former
pastor, the Reverend Jeremiah Wright Jr.  “I want to make it very clear I repudiate that effort,”
Romney told reporters today after a campaign event in
Jacksonville, Florida. “I hope that our campaigns can
respectively be about the future and about issues and about a
vision for America.”  Romney was responding to a report in today’s editions of
the New York Times on a proposal for a super-political action
committee backed by billionaire Joe Ricketts, the founder of
what is now TD Ameritrade, to finance ads featuring Wright,
whose racially incendiary sermons became an issue in the 2008
presidential campaign.  Ricketts, who pays for the Ending Spending Action Fund
super-PAC, also disavowed the plan. The businessman “is neither
the author nor the funder of the so-called ‘Ricketts Plan’ to
defeat Mr. Obama that the  New York  Times wrote about this
morning,”  Brian Baker , president of the fund, said in a
statement.  Steering the Message  The episode underscores the potential power of one wealthy
individual to steer the narrative of the presidential campaign,
along with the challenge Romney faces in keeping his message
focused on the economy and away from divisive topics that could
alienate independent voters whose support he needs to win.  Baker said the ad campaign was one of several proposals
submitted to the super-PAC. It was turned aside because “it
reflects an approach to politics that Mr. Ricketts rejects,”
Baker said.  Although the Obama ad campaign was rejected, Baker said the
Ending Spending Action Fund will remain active. “Mr. Ricketts
intends to work hard to help elect a president this fall who
shares his commitment to economic responsibility,” Baker said.  The group ran ads backing Nebraska state Senator Deb Fischer, who won the Republican nomination for  U.S. Senate  on
May 15 after having trailed in polls of the race for most of the
year. It also supports Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker , who
faces a recall election after eliminating collective bargaining
rights for most public employee unions.  Ricketts’s daughter Laura has raised more than $500,000 for
Obama.  ‘Character Assassination’  Romney, during his brief question-and-answer session in
Jacksonville arranged to respond to the Wright story, took a
shot at the tone of Obama’s re-election bid.  “We can talk about a lot of things, but the centerpiece of
his campaign is quite clearly character assassination, and the
centerpiece of my campaign is going be my vision to get America
working again,” Romney said.  He said he was referring to the Obama campaign’s criticism
of his record as a private-equity executive at Bain Capital LLC,
which he said was designed “not to describe success and
failure, but somehow to suggest that I’m not a good person or
not a good guy.”  Obama’s campaign spokesman,  Ben LaBolt , responded that
Romney was the one deviating from the issues.  Divisive Politics  “Today, Mitt Romney had the opportunity to distance
himself from his previous attempts to inject the divisive
politics of character assassination into the presidential
race,” LaBolt said in a statement. “It was a moment that
required moral leadership, and once again he didn’t rise to the
occasion. Throughout the course of the campaign, he has
repeatedly refused to stand up to the most extreme voices in the
 Republican Party .”  Past sermons by Wright that became an issue before Obama
tied down the 2008 Democratic nomination included the pastor
praising Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan and contending
that the government may have had a role in spreading AIDS to
decimate the black population.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, also sought
to distance his party from any ads the Ricketts-funded group
might run to tie Obama to Wright.  “I don’t know what these other people do or why they do
it; all I know is that the American people vote with their
wallets,” Boehner said. “The campaign is going to be about
economics, it’s going to be about  jobs , as it should be,”
Boehner told reporters.  Interesting Development  House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  said she found it
“interesting” that the super-PAC campaign “is all going to be
funded by the owner of the  Chicago Cubs . I hope they are as
successful with this campaign as the Cubs are on the baseball
field” because they “ain’t got no chance of going to any  World
Series .”  The Cubs won their last World Series in 1908, and they
haven’t appeared in one since 1945.  The news of the prospective Obama attack ads overshadowed
Romney’s campaign announcement that it had raised $40.1 million
in its first month of joint fundraising with the  Republican
National Committee . He is in the middle of a two-day fundraising
sweep through the politically competitive state of  Florida  that
is expected to rake in $10 million.  Obama and the  Democratic National Committee  collected $43.6
million during the same month, his campaign said yesterday.
Obama has been doing similar joint events with the national
party, which carry a much higher price tag than candidate-only
fundraisers.  Neither Romney nor Obama released how much money went into
the candidates’ campaign coffers. Those figures are due at the
 Federal Election Commission  by May 20.  “We are pleased with the strong support we have received
from Americans across the country who are looking for new
leadership in the White House,” said the Romney campaign’s
national finance chairman,  Spencer Zwick , in a statement
announcing the fundraising total.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Jacksonville, Florida, at
   jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 