-- Ruby Crude Sold at Lower Premiums; Murban Oil Falls: Asia Crude
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-05-17T10:52:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/ruby-crude-sold-at-lower-premiums-murban-oil-falls-asia-crude.html
Vietnam ’s Ruby crude for July sold at
lower premiums than a month earlier, while Middle East Murban
oil fell to its lowest in three weeks.  PV Oil Corp., Vietnam’s state-run oil-marketing company,
sold 600,000 barrels of Ruby for July loading at a premium of $1
a barrel to the regional benchmark grade Minas, said three
traders who participate in the market, declining to be
identified because the information is confidential.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , known as Petrobras, paid $2.50 more
than Minas prices last month for June cargoes of Ruby, two
traders said on April 18.  Abu Dhabi’s Murban crude fell 5 cents to 35 cents below its
official selling price, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The grade has fallen for the last three days and was at the
lowest level since April 30.  PV Oil offered to sell three cargoes of Chim Sao crude for
loading in July, totaling 900,000 barrels, said two traders who
participate in the market, declining to be identified because
the information is confidential. Bids are due tomorrow.  The Vietnamese company also offered to sell 250,000 barrels
of Song Doc crude for loading July 2 to July 7 and 250,000
barrels of Rang Dong for July 13 to July 19. Both offers close
May 22.  Iran Blocked  Iranian oil shipments to  Japan  may be blocked after the
bank handling payments on the transactions was ordered by a U.S.
court to freeze assets belonging to the Persian Gulf nation,
according to two refinery officials with knowledge of the matter.  The National Iranian Oil Co., the country’s state-run oil
company, may stop Japanese refiners from picking up cargoes
until it can find alternative ways to access payments received
through accounts at the Bank of Tokyo unit of Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc., the refiners said, declining to be
identified because of company policies. All of Japan’s purchases
of Iranian crude are handled through the unit, they said.  Dubai crude’s  backwardation , when prices for prompt
supplies are  greater  than future delivery, fell 2 cents. Swaps
for June were 96 cents a barrel more than August, according to
data from PVM Oil Associates Ltd., a London-based broker.  The Brent-Dubai exchange for swaps for July, which measures
the European marker grade’s premium against the Middle East oil,
fell 47 cents to $3.45 a barrel, according to data from PVM. The
August EFS was down 32 cents at $3.42.  The profit from turning a barrel of Dubai crude into fuels
priced in the oil-trading hub of Singapore averaged $3.36 during
the last five days, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The
30-day average is $4.08 a barrel.  Oman for July delivery fell 53 cents to settle at $106.96 a
barrel at 12:30 p.m. on the Dubai Mercantile Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in  Singapore  at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  