-- Russia’s Micex Slumps Into Bear Market on Greece; Sberbank Drops
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-05-17T16:23:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/russia-stocks-fall-on-concern-greek-financial-crisis-worsening.html
Russia’s Micex Index entered a  bear
market  amid concern  Greece ’s financial crisis is worsening and
as OAO Sberbank, the country’s biggest bank, tumbled after a
policy maker said lending is stagnating.  The 30-stock Micex lost 3.5 percent to 1,287.79 by the
close in Moscow. The gauge has declined 21 percent from this
year’s March 14 high, breaching the 20 percent threshold
analysts say marks a so-called bear market. Sberbank fell 7.2
percent, while the preferred shares of OAO Transneft, Russia’s
oil pipeline operator, sank 6.5 percent.  The  European Central Bank  said it will temporarily stop
lending to some Greek banks to limit its risk as a political
impasse threatens to force the nation out of the euro. Russia’s
lending growth is beginning to slow as banks run short of
capital, the central bank reduces currency interventions and the
 Finance Ministry  runs a  budget surplus , Interfax reported,
citing a Bank Rossii official. Brent oil retreated.  “Uncertainty about what’s happening with Greece is
dragging Russia along for a ride,”  Ian McCall , a managing
partner at Quesnell Capital SA, an emerging-markets investment
adviser in Geneva that oversees 100 million Swiss francs ($109
million) said by phone. “It’s  risk aversion  generically.
There’s concern with respect to what’s happening to the price of
oil.”  Russia received almost 50 percent of budget revenue from
oil and gas sales last year, according to government estimates.
Brent traded down 0.3 percent at $109.38 a barrel.  Russian government officials met with reporters today to
discuss Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev’s trip to the U.S. for
the Group of Eight summit.  Stagnating Growth  Sberbank, which has the third-biggest weighting in the
 Micex (INDEXCF) , dropped to 80.63 rubles, the lowest level since Dec. 30.  Russian lenders’ capital adequacy ratio was at about 14.6
percent at the end of April, nearing an historical minimum and
approaching the level reached on the eve of the 2008 crisis,
Interfax said, citing Sergei Moiseyev, deputy head of the
central bank’s financial stability department.  Russia-focused equity funds recorded this year’s biggest
outflows in the week ended May 9, posting redemptions of $188
million, according to EPFR Global. The outflow may have risen to
$300 million in the week ended May 17, according to Leonid Slipchenko, an UralSib Capital analyst.  Russian stocks retreated after an index of Philadelphia
manufacturing unexpectedly declined and U.S. Conference Board’s
gauge of leading indicators fell, indicating the pace of
economic expansion may cool.  Bear Market  “Outflows from the Russian market continue and Sberbank is
the main blue-chip that’s getting hit,” Slipchenko said by
phone.  OAO MRSK Holding declined 6.1 percent as  Russia ’s
competition watchdog said it’s “not against” a merger with
Federal Grid Co. and following a report that Russia is delaying
a revision of long-term tariffs for power Distributors.  The dollar-denominated RTS fell 4.4 percent to 1,313.43,
the lowest level since Oct. 7 and the worst-performing index
worldwide. The index’s 3.6 percent slide on May 14 saw it breach
the bear market threshold.  “The global backdrop remains difficult,” VTB Capital
analysts led by Alexey Zabotkin, said in an e-mailed note today.
The market is “tuning” to the “less inconceivable possibility
of Greece’s departure.”  Russia is the first of the so-called BRIC countries to
enter a bear market in 2012. The BSE India Sensitive Index is
down 13 percent from its peak and Brazil’s Bovespa Index is down
18 percent. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  has been in a bear
market for more than a year.  The  MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC)  for shares in Brazil, Russia, India and
 China  slid for a fifth day to 260.73, the lowest level since
Nov. 25. The index wiped out this year’s gains yesterday, as
concern deepened that China’s economic growth is slowing and
Europe’s debt crisis is spreading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in  New York  at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  