-- Rybolovlev’s Wife Amends $88 Million NYC Apartment Complaint
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2012-05-17T17:47:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/rybolovlev-s-wife-files-amended-complaint-in-apartment-suit.html
Russian billionaire Dmitry Rybolovlev’s wife filed an amended complaint in her lawsuit over
the $88 million purchase of a Central Park West penthouse in
 Manhattan  from former  Citigroup Inc. (C)  Chairman Sanford Weill.  Elena Rybolovleva sued Rybolovlev in March in  New York 
state  Supreme Court  in Manhattan, accusing him of fraudulently
transferring property acquired during his marriage in violation
of a Swiss court order. The amended complaint, filed May 14,
adds their daughter, Ekaterina, and several unidentified trusts.  The property holding company “is a sham entity which has
no legitimate business purpose” except “to secrete assets
acquired during the marriage and place them out of the reach”
of his wife, according to the filing.  Weill paid about $42 million for the apartment in 2007,
according to  Internet data  from public records. The 6,744
square-foot (627-square-meter) apartment has 4 bedrooms and 6
1/2 bathrooms, the records show.  Rybolovlev, who ranked number 100 on Forbes Magazine’s 2012
list of the world’s billionaires with a net worth of $9 billion,
is the former owner of fertilizer maker OAO Uralkali.  Rybolovlev and his spokesman Alan Basiev, couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment at their Moscow office, where
nobody answered the telephone after business hours today.  A company associated with the billionaire’s daughter, a
student, bought the condominium in February, Basiev said in
December. She stays at the apartment when visiting New York,
Basiev said.  Filed for Divorce  Elena Rybolovleva filed for divorce in Geneva in December
2008, and the court later imposed a provisional freeze on shares
and assets of Rybolovlev. She’s seeking an order to put the
property in trust.  Rybolovleva also sued her husband in Florida in 2008 over a
house he purchased from  Donald Trump  in  Palm Beach  for $95
million, which at the time was the most expensive house in the
U.S., according to that lawsuit.  The case is Rybolovleva v. Rybolovlev, 102168/2012, New
York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  