-- Saints’ Vilma Sues NFL’s Goodell Over Bounty Statements
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-05-18T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/saints-vilma-sues-nfl-s-goodell-over-bounty-statements.html
Jonathan Vilma, a  New Orleans  Saints
linebacker, sued National Football League Commissioner  Roger Goodell  for defamation in reports about the team’s “bounty”
program.  Vilma accused the commissioner of making false statements
about him in reports about the bounties allegedly paid to
players for intentionally hurting opponents during games,
according to a filing in federal court yesterday in New Orleans.  “Goodell’s statements forever falsely taint and
permanently damage Vilma, in the eyes of NFL clubs, media, fans
and sponsors, as a player who brazenly disregards NFL rules and
intentionally attempts to injure his opponents,” according to
the complaint.  Vilma was banned in March for the 2012 season without pay
for his role in the Saints’ bounty program. His penalty was the
most severe of the four players who were suspended. The league’s
investigation concluded that as captain of the defense, Vilma
assisted then-defensive coordinator  Gregg Williams  in
establishing and funding the program that offered money to
players who knocked specific opponents out of a game.  ‘Player Safety’  “We have not yet reviewed the filing,”  Brian McCarthy , a
spokesman for the NFL, said in an e-mailed statement. “However,
our commitment to player safety and the integrity of the game is
our main consideration. We recognize that not everyone will
agree with decisions that need to be made.”  Vilma is seeking unspecified compensatory and punitive
damages and a  jury trial . The league itself isn’t named as a
defendant.  The NFL said Vilma offered $10,000 to any Saints player who
knocked  Arizona  quarterback Kurt Warner out of the 2009
divisional playoff game and later pledged the same amount to
anyone who took Minnesota quarterback  Brett Favre  out of the NFC
Championship game the following week.  Vilma appealed the ban and said an arbitrator should hear
the appeal instead of Goodell. He also asked the league to turn
over witness statements and other documentation that linked him
to the bounty program.  The league said Saints players were paid bonuses for other
on-field efforts such as forcing turnovers. The payments, which
came from a player-funded bounty pool, violate NFL rules about
non-contract bonuses.  Stiffest Penalties  The penalties handed down in March by the NFL were the
stiffest ever imposed on a team and its leadership. The Saints
head coach,  Sean Payton , was suspended for the entire season,
General Manager Mickey Loomis was given a half-season suspension
and assistant coach Joe Vitt received a six-game ban. The team
was denied two draft picks and fined $500,000. Williams was
suspended indefinitely for administering the program.  Vilma, 30, is an eight-year NFL veteran who played the past
four seasons for the Saints after beginning his career with the
 New York  Jets. He was named to the  Pro Bowl  for the 2005, 2009
and 2010 seasons.  He was scheduled to earn $1.6 million in salary from the
Saints in 2012.  The case is Vilma v. Goodell, 12-01283, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  