-- Salesforce Sales Forecast Tops Estimates on Big Deals
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-05-18T00:38:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/salesforce-com-tops-estimates-as-corporate-deal-sizes-increase.html
Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) , the largest
seller of online customer-management software, forecast fiscal
second-quarter sales that beat estimates as it signs more large
deals with corporate customers.  Sales in the period ending in July will be $724 million to
$728 million, the San Francisco-based company said in a
statement. That compares with an  average  $712.9 million analyst
estimate compiled by Bloomberg. Profit excluding some items will
be 38 cents to 39 cents a share, while analysts projected 38
cents.  The forecast eased investors’ concern that Salesforce’s
sales reps were bringing in less revenue in comparison to the
company’s hiring pace, said Pat Walravens, an analyst at JMP
Securities in San Francisco.  “Salesforce has been running the same playbook now for 10
years, and during that time it has gone from a $50 million
business in 2003 to around a $3 billion business today,” said
Walravens, who has a “market outperform” rating on Salesforce
shares. “The right thing to focus on is: Are people buying its
solutions?”  Chief Executive Officer  Marc Benioff  is selling more
expensive software licenses that let customers use the company’s
entire suite of products, boosting deal sizes. Salesforce is
also adding to its software for tracking sales leads and quotas
with programs that manage human resources and allow companies to
run marketing campaigns on Facebook Inc. and other sites.  Mega-Deals  Salesforce’s customer-support business is growing faster
than its larger customer relationship management business,
Benioff said during a call with analysts.  “You’re just going to see this incredible tear of that
business,” he said. Larger deals are also helping lift sales,
including a contract worth more than $100 million with an
insurance company that was signed early in the first quarter.  “More mega-deals are being lined up for later in the
fiscal year and the quantity and size could surprise people,”
 Mark Murphy , an analyst at Piper Jaffray & Co. in San Francisco,
wrote in a May 13 research note. Murphy has an overweight rating
on the shares.  Shares rose as high as $145.28 in extended  trading  after
losing 2 percent to close at $133.80 in  New York . The stock has
 gained  32 percent this year.  First-quarter sales rose 38 percent to $695.5 million,
beating the average $678 million estimate. Salesforce reported a
net loss of $19.5 million, or 14 cents a share, compared with
net income of $530,000, or breaking even on a per-share basis, a
year earlier. Profit excluding some items was 37 cents, compared
with an estimate of 34 cents.  Full-Year Forecast  The company raised its full-year fiscal 2013 sales forecast
to between $2.97 billion and $3 billion, higher than analysts’
estimates of $2.95 billion.  Salesforce also introduced a new metric called “unbilled
deferred revenue,” a non-GAAP measure of the value of contracts
not yet booked as sales. The figure increased to $2.7 billion in
the first quarter from $2.2 billion in the prior three-month
period.  Salesforce shares fell 14 percent on May 10, the most in
nearly six months after networking leader Cisco Systems Inc.
said corporate customers are reluctant to spend and it’s taking
longer to sign large deals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  