-- Samsung Must Make Do After U.K. Olympic Torch Relay Is Downsized
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-05-17T23:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/samsung-must-make-do-after-u-k-olympic-torch-relay-is-downsized.html
Samsung Electronics Co.’s sponsorship
means its brand will be accompanying the Olympic flame across
Britain. The company said it would have preferred a repeat of
previous global tours.  The torch will be accompanied by former England soccer
captain  David Beckham  as it arrives on a specially painted
golden British Airways Airbus SAS A319 jet from  Greece  today for
the start of a 70-day procession.  The decision by organizers of the  London  2012 games to
limit the torch procession to the host country came after the
previous relay for the Beijing 2008 event was marred by protests
over  China ’s human-rights record.  “We prefer international because we can contact more
customers and people around the world,” Sunny Hwang, Samsung’s
vice president and head of worldwide sports marketing said in an
interview in London. “But that’s what we cannot decide. That’s
the decision from the Olympic committee.”  Samsung, the world’s largest mobile-phone maker, has
sponsored the torch relay since the Athens games in 2004 as it
seeks to boost its brand and lift selling prices for its
devices. The South Korean manufacturer’s products bring in
higher prices than  Sony Corp. (6758)  since it first began sponsoring
the  Olympic Games  in 1998 as a top-tier partner, Hwang said.  The British torch relay will start tomorrow at Land’s End,
Cornwall, taking the Olympic flame on an 8,000-mile journey
crisscrossing the U.K. so that it will be within 10 miles of 95
percent of the population, organizers say. It will be carried by
8,000 torchbearers before reaching the Olympic Stadium on the
evening of July 27 for the opening ceremony.  Magnet for Protests  During the Beijing games, the 129-day global tour attracted
violence and led to reshuffled routes after becoming a magnet
for global protests.  “It’s probably more modest and conservative than the
Chinese effort,” said Graham Hales, chief executive officer of
research firm Interbrand London. “China wanted to put its name
on the map and I don’t think the U.K. is looking at it on that
basis.”  Samsung would have preferred taking the torch around the
world again even if there had been some protests, provided such
actions didn’t draw widespread publicity.  “It depends on the degree of protest,” Hwang said. “If
it’s a serious one, exposing our brand in newspapers all over
the world would not be always positive.”  Discount Sales  Before its Olympics sponsorship, Samsung, which last
quarter surpassed  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  as the world’s largest mobile phone
maker, had to sell consumer electronics at a 20 percent to 30
percent discount to its rivals.  “Sony was the main competitor, so we had to put lower
prices,” Hwang said. “These days our price tag is much higher
than them.”  Samsung’s 2011 brand value climbed 188 percent to $23
billion since 2002, while Sony’s declined 31 percent to $9
billion, according to Interbrand.  “Sony has been going backwards,” Hales said. “Samsung
took themselves into a market where brand was important.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  