-- Santander Among 16 Spanish Banks Downgraded by Moody’s
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-05-18T16:50:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/santander-among-16-spanish-banks-cut-by-moody-s-on-economy.html
Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA,  Spain ’s biggest lenders, were cut three
levels by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited a recession and
mounting loan losses in downgrading 16 of the nation’s  banks .  Nine firms were cut three grades and seven were kept on
review for further reductions, Moody’s said yesterday in a
statement. Santander’s U.K.-based subsidiary also was cut.  The moves followed Moody’s May 14 downgrade of 26 Italian
banks and its Feb. 13 cut of Spain’s sovereign debt. The main
drivers for the Spanish bank downgrades were a surge in  soured
loans , the recession, restricted funding access and the reduced
ability of the government to support lenders as its own
creditworthiness diminishes, Moody’s said.  “Banks will continue to face highly adverse operating and
market funding conditions that pose a threat to their
creditworthiness,” the ratings firm said. “The Spanish economy
has fallen back into recession in first-quarter 2012, and
Moody’s does not expect conditions to improve” this year.  Shares in the lenders rebounded today in Madrid trading
after sliding for a week on concern that the nation’s financial
system is deteriorating. Santander rose 2.9 percent, its first
gain since May 10.  BBVA (BBVA)  climbed 3.7 percent and CaixaBank SA
rose 2.2 percent. Banco Popular Espanol SA advanced 1.3 percent.  Bank Overhaul  Concern about the possible expense to the government of
bailing out banks’ real-estate losses has helped to drive up the
country’s borrowing costs. The extra yield on Spanish 10-year
bonds compared with German bunds narrowed to 484 basis points
today from 490 basis points yesterday. A basis point is a
hundredth of a percentage point.  The government, in its latest attempt to bolster confidence
in banks, said on May 11 it will hire two auditors to value
lenders’ assets and told banks to set aside about 30 billion
euros ($38 billion) against healthy real estate loans. That’s on
top of 53.8 billion euros of charges and capital ordered in
February. The government will lend funds to struggling banks and
expects to use less than 15 billion euros doing so, Economy
Minister Luis de Guindos said last week.  Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria didn’t
comment today when asked at a news conference whether the
government was considering seeking assistance from the European
Union to shore up lenders.  Bad Loans Rise  “You ask about what the government is going to do with the
banks and a request for some kind of aid,” she said after the
weekly Cabinet meeting. “As to what the government is doing
with the financial sector, it did it in February, and the second
step was taken in the Cabinet last week.”  EU Economic and Monetary Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said Spain
can clean up its banks on its own.  “Spain is not comparable to, for instance, Ireland, which
had a banking sector many times larger compared to gross
domestic product,” Rehn said in a Bloomberg Television interview
in  London  today. “Spain has the starting point that it can deal
with this challenge on its own without resorting to European
assistance.”  The ratio of bad loans to total lending surged to 8.37
percent in March, the highest since 1994, compared with less
than 1 percent in 2007, the Bank of Spain said today. Lenders
have 184 billion euros of what the Bank of Spain terms
“problematic” real estate-linked assets after taking property
onto their books after the boom collapsed in 2008.  High Unemployment  “If you look at the reported numbers so far, you don’t see
that much deterioration on residential mortgages or on non-
commercial real estate corporates and SMEs,” said Johannes Wassenberg, a managing director at Moody’s covering European
banks. “If you look at the renewed recession you have in Spain
and the very high  unemployment rate , in our view that’s likely
to have a knock-on impact on these broader asset classes.”  Moody’s announced in April that it would start downgrading
banks around the world. After beginning with Italy and Spain,
the review will move on to countries including  Austria , the U.K.
and  Germany . U.S. investment banks may have their ratings
changed next month, when the review is expected to conclude.  Santander and BBVA were both cut to A3, the same as the
Spanish government, from Aa3, according to Moody’s. The U.K.
unit of Santander was downgraded to A2. The rating change has
“no impact” on the business nor on plans for growth, the U.K.
unit said in a statement yesterday.  ‘Normal Range’  There hasn’t been a pickup in withdrawals from the U.K.
bank, a spokeswoman said. “After a raft of media coverage there
has been a slight increase in customer inquiries,” said Sarah
Davies, a Santander U.K. spokeswoman. “Generally the inflow and
outflow levels aren’t particularly above the normal range and
are nothing causing concern,” she said by phone today.  Customers phoned up and asked whether the bank was covered
by the U.K.’s financial services compensation scheme, a
government-backed, industry-funded program that pays out when
companies go bust. It is covered by the program, Davies said.
The bank is regulated by the Financial Services Authority and
its parent bank can’t access any of its money via loans or
dividend payments without FSA approval, she said.  Spain’s government on May 9 took over the  Bankia (BKIA)  group, the
lender with the biggest Spanish asset base, after it filed 2011
earnings without certification from auditors.  Deputy Economy Minister Fernando Jimenez Latorre yesterday
denied deposits were leaking from Bankia after El Mundo
newspaper reported that 1 billion euros had been withdrawn by
customers since May 9. Bankia’s newly appointed chairman, Jose Ignacio Goirigolzarri, said yesterday that the bank’s activity
had been “basically normal” in recent days.  Moody’s on Feb. 13 cut the debt ratings of Spain and five
other countries including Italy and  Portugal , citing  Europe ’s
debt crisis. On April 30,  Standard & Poor’s  cut its credit
ratings for 11 Spanish banks, including Santander and BBVA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  