-- Saudi Arabia Marks King’s Accession as Region Applies Pressure
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-05-17T05:45:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/saudi-arabia-marks-king-s-accession-as-region-applies-pressure.html
As he begins his eighth year on the
throne, King Abdullah of  Saudi Arabia  confronts a region facing
unprecedented political changes as well as mounting social
pressures at home.  The country marks the seventh anniversary of Abdullah’s
accession today, according to the Islamic calendar. Seven years
ago, “people pledged allegiance and loyalty to the king and
united in support of him,” the official Saudi Press Agency
said. Based on the lunar cycle, August 1, 2005 corresponds to
May 17.  Abdullah, 88 this year, has kept at bay the popular
movements that toppled leaders in  Yemen , Tunisia,  Egypt  and
 Libya . With unrest threatening to spread to the Persian Gulf
states, he drew up a $130 billion spending package to help
alleviate issues such as unemployment and deployed troops to
Bahrain to crush a Shiite-led uprising. At home, the son of King Abdulaziz, the founder of the kingdom, has pursued policies to
create jobs and build state institutions.  “The regional environment has been difficult,” said
Crispin Hawes, director for the Middle East and North Africa at
Eurasia Group in  London . “Not only has Abdullah lost a
significant ally in  Hosni Mubarak , but the emergence of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in  Iran , continuing upheaval in  Iraq  and more
recently the situation in Syria and Bahrain have posed
significant direct challenges.”  Saudi Arabia’s economy will expand 3.9 percent this year,
Jeddah-based  National Commercial Bank  said, after growing 6.8
percent last year.  ‘Reasonable’ Growth  With Abdullah’s backing, the government has “accomplished
reasonable economic growth,”  Jarmo Kotilaine , chief economist
at Jeddah-based National Commercial Bank, said in a phone
interview. “They need to lay the foundation for a diverse
economy to absorb new job-seekers.”  Since taking power, Abdullah has implemented a $400 billion
fiscal stimulus package in late 2008 and a $384 billion, five-
year spending plan for education, housing and transportation in
August 2010. He imposed quotas in June forcing employers to cut
foreign staff to get Saudis working, and allowed women to work
in lingerie outlets.  Abdullah for the first time in the kingdom’s history gave
women last year the right to vote in future municipal elections.
They can also join his advisory council.  For Mohammed al-Qahtani, a Riyadh-based democracy advocate,
many of the changes Abdullah made are “symbolic.”  ‘Positive Feelings’  “When Abdullah took over, at the beginning, there were
positive feelings,” he said in a phone interview. “People
thought things were changing, that we could express ourselves.
Unless institutions are put in place, the changes don’t mean
anything.”  A royal decree last year banned media deemed to violate
Islamic law and threaten internal security, the official Saudi
Press Agency reported. Publications that break the rules can be
fined or closed.  Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest oil exporter, was ranked
the least democratic country in the  Middle East  in the Economist
Intelligence Unit’s 2010 Democracy Index. Six monarchs have
ruled the kingdom since it was established in 1932. Born in
1924, Abdullah is the 13th son of the kingdom’s founder,
according to the website of the Saudi embassy in  Washington .  ‘Legalizing Taboos’  Abdullah has challenged clerics who have spoken out about
his efforts to amend gender-mixing restrictions. He removed
Sheikh Abdul Mohsen al-Obeikan as an adviser to the Royal Court
this month after the conservative cleric told a local radio
station that officials were Westernizing laws by “legalizing
taboos.”  Abdullah also replaced Sheikh Saad Bin Naser al-Shatri, a
former member of the Council of Senior Scholars, for criticizing
the opening of  King Abdullah  University of Science and
Technology, the country’s first mixed-sex higher-education
institution, in September 2009.  “A long-term goal for King Abdullah would have been that
Saudi institutions remain strong, employment numbers would
improve and relations with difficult parties remained stable,”
Hawes said. “Given those goals, he has done very well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  