-- HSBC Doubles Target for Additional Revenue to $2 Billion
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-05-17T08:41:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/hsbc-expects-to-meet-top-end-of-savings-goal-at-3-5-bill.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s largest
bank, doubled its target for generating additional revenue from
greater cooperation among its four businesses to $2 billion.  The lender, based in  London , is also on schedule to meet
the top end of its target for eliminating as much as $3.5
billion of costs by the end of next year, according to a filing
to the Hong Kong stock exchange today.  Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver , 53, who took over
in January 2011, pledged in May last year to cut costs as a
percentage of revenue and increase return on equity, a measure
of profitability, to at least 12 percent by retreating from less
profitable markets. He’s announced the sale of 28 businesses
since the start of last year.  “Revenue growth is a key issue  HSBC (5)  needs to address, and
revenue growth tends to be harder to achieve than cost
savings,” said Gary Greenwood, an analyst at Shore Capital in
Liverpool,  England . “The market tends to be a bit more
skeptical on those than cost savings and they take longer to get
priced in.”  HSBC fell 0.9 percent in London to 529.6 pence at 9:38
a.m., giving the company a market value of 96.2 billion pounds
($153.9 billion). The stock has gained 8.8 percent this year,
compared with a 5.7 percent advance by the FTSE 350 Banks Index.  Revenue gains will come from “further cooperation
between” HSBC’s investment bank “and commercial banking and
between commercial banking and the private bank,” Gulliver said
on a conference call with journalists today.  “It’s as simple as things like ensuring foreign-exchange
deals are done at our end in trade finance rather than at
another bank’s end,” he said.  Asset Sales  Gulliver has announced about $6 billion of asset sales, led
by its disposal of its U.S. credit card unit to  Capital One
Financial Corp. (COF)  for a premium of $2.5 billion. It agreed in
August to sell its upstate  New York  branch network to  First
Niagara Financial Group Inc. (FNFG)  for about $1 billion.  “The revenue synergy and the revenue target are
encouraging as it suggests that HSBC’s cost-efficiency effort is
not just focusing on reducing costs,” Sandy Mehta, CEO of Hong
Kong-based Value Investment Principals Ltd., said by telephone
today. “That’s a fine balance.”  The bank has increased its estimate for potential
additional revenue from integrating its four global businesses
in the “short to medium term” by $1 billion, Gulliver said in
the statement. HSBC said a year ago it would encourage greater
cooperation among its investment and commercial banking units to
create $1 billion in extra revenue.  ROE Target Raised  The bank will exit four markets in  Latin America  and change
its model in another four, concentrating on the “priority
markets” of Argentina,  Brazil  and  Mexico .  HSBC said a year ago it would target a return on equity of
12 percent to 15 percent. That compares with 11 percent in 2011.
The bank also said it would seek to reduce costs to a range of
48 percent to 52 percent of revenue. That measure stood at 56
percent at the end of March.  In April, 27 percent of  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s shareholders voted
against CEO Robert Diamond’s 12 million-pound ($19 million)
compensation package. HSBC, which will have its annual meeting
on May 25, has tried to align its executive pay with shareholder
interests, Gulliver said. His long-term bonus is deferred for
five years, paid in HSBC stock and is inaccessible until his
retirement, he said.  “We think we are in a slightly different situation than
some,” he said.  The bank was criticized on May 15 by Pensions & Investment
Research Consultants Ltd., a shareholder adviser, for the
reliability and audit quality of its accounts, which may be
affected by the International Financial Reporting Standards.
Shareholders should vote down the audit report, PIRC said.  Using the standards is required by regulators, Finance
Director Iain Mackay said on today’s conference call. “To
object to a set of international standards is an interesting
point of view, but it is simply not a basis on which to
recommend that the accounts are not approved.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong  at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  