-- Schilling Rhode Island Pitch Risks $75 Million Debt: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-05-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/schilling-rhode-island-pitch-risks-75-million-debt-muni-credit.html
Curt Schilling, pitching ace on the
2004 Boston team that won baseball’s  World Series , may leave
 Rhode Island  on the hook for $75 million of bonds sold to help
lure his video game company to the state.  The former  Red Sox  fireballer yesterday asked the state for
extra time after the Providence-based venture failed to make a
$1.1 million payment to cash-strapped Rhode Island’s economic-
development arm.  Schilling, 45, last year moved the company, 38 Studios LLC,
from  Massachusetts  after Rhode Island lent $75 million from the
proceeds of a debt sale in exchange for a promise to create
hundreds of jobs. The state may be forced to repay the bonds if
the company defaults on the loan, according to securities
filings.  “Practices like these will be increasingly under fire in
the next decade or so as states reconcile reduced budgets and
reduced borrowing capacity with their rising fiscal needs,”
Matt Fabian, a managing director at Concord, Massachusetts-based
Municipal Market Advisors, said in an interview.  Rhode Island’s situation underscores the gamble
municipalities take in offering incentives to businesses
promising to add workers. States from  California  to  New Jersey 
are offering more than $11 billion annually in tax credits,
grants, low-cost loans and reimbursements to spur employment,
according to a December  report  from Good Jobs First.  Pension Pressure  Rhode Island and its cities are dealing with the lingering
effects of the 18-month recession that ended in 2009 while the
cost of benefits promised to public employees consumes a rising
share of budgets.  Central Falls , the state’s smallest city,
entered Chapter 9 bankruptcy in August.  The state faces a $120 million fiscal 2013 deficit,
according to its budget office. Treasurer Gina Raimondo led a
pension-system overhaul that will save about $3 billion by steps
such as suspending cost-of-living increases.  The game company, which Schilling founded in 2006,
relocated in April 2011 and has created 250 jobs, according to a
March 15 securities filing. The company has to generate 300
full-time positions in Rhode Island by October, two years after
the bond sale. That number increases to 450 by October 2013. Its
website listed 17  job openings  in Providence yesterday.  The March filing cited a June 2011 opinion from an outside
auditor saying the company would need additional financing to
fund operations.  May 1 Payment  On May 1 it missed its annual payment to the Economic
Development Corp., issuer of the bonds. The debt carries the
state’s pledge to repay if the agency doesn’t have the funds.  Schilling, who wore number 38, won three World Series
during a playing career spanning two decades. His bloodstained
sock from the 2004 postseason became a part of Boston history
after he helped the Red Sox end an 86-year title drought.  He retired in 2009 after missing the previous season
following surgery on his pitching shoulder. The righthander
earned more than $114 million in salary and bonuses during his
playing career, according to baseballreference.com.  Governor Lincoln Chafee, an independent, and the agency’s
board held an emergency meeting with Schilling yesterday to
discuss the missed payment. The company has until May 30 to meet
its obligation, a Chafee spokeswoman, Christine Hunsinger, said
in an interview.  ‘Cure Period’  “The board determined that they were still within that
cure period to cure the default and that they would continue to
have discussions with 38 Studios,” Hunsinger said.  The  Associated Press  reported that Schilling declined to
answer questions after the meeting, saying: “My priority right
now is to get back to my team.”  Calls to 38 Studios’ Providence office were answered by a
recording that didn’t allow incoming messages. Schilling didn’t
respond to an e-mail sent through his publicist, Katie Leighton.  The 38 Studios game Kingdoms of Amalur: Reckoning has sold
460,000 units through April after its February release, ranking
10th this year, said  David Riley , executive director of  Port
Washington , New York-based NPD Group, a market research firm.  “For a new studio with a new title, it’s impressive,” he
said.  The role-playing game is based in a fictional world with
multiple characters, weapons, spells and action combat, Riley
said. It was selling for $59.99 yesterday through the company’s
website.  Assured Guaranty Ltd. insures the 38 Studio bonds, which
are federally taxable and exempt from state taxes, according to
the offering document. Moody’s Investors Service rates the debt
Aa3, fourth-highest, with a negative outlook.  USAA Life Insurance Co. held about $36 million of the bonds
as of Dec. 31, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Laura Eshelman,
spokeswoman for San Antonio-based USAA, declined to comment in
an e-mail.  A bond due November 2015 traded on April 10 as high as
110.15 cents on the dollar, up from 100 when the bonds first
sold in October 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Following are descriptions of coming sales:  SAN FRANCISCO PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION plans to issue
about $576 million in revenue debt as soon as May 22, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The securities mature from 2031
to 2042, the data show. Moody’s Investors Service rates the
bonds Aa3, fourth-highest. The debt will be sold via competitive
sale. (Added May 16)  NEW YORK  CITY plans to sell $800 million of tax-free
general-obligation bonds as soon as next week, according to an
offering document. The refunding debt will be sold to
individuals on May 21 and May 22, and issued to institutions on
May 23, according to a city statement. S&P rates the bonds AA,
third-highest. Bank of America Merrill Lynch will lead banks.
(Updated May 16)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  