-- Seattle Fund Manager Charged With Diverting $46 Million
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-05-17T22:33:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/seattle-fund-manager-charged-with-diverting-46-million.html
Mark Spangler, former chairman of the
National Association of Personal Financial Advisors, was
indicted on charges that he secretly diverted $46 million from
investors to risky startup companies he co-owned.  Spangler, the Seattle-based head of Spangler Group and co-
founder of Tamarac Inc. and TeraHop Networks Inc., told
investors that their funds were conservatively invested in
publicly traded companies and bonds, U.S. Attorney Jenny Durkan
in  Seattle  said in a  statement  on her website. A federal grand
jury today indicted Spangler on 23 counts of  wire fraud ,  money
laundering  and investment adviser fraud, Durkan said.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said today it
is suing Spangler. He is scheduled to appear in federal court in
Seattle tomorrow.  Spangler, 57, established funds as early as 1998 to pool
investor money and buy publicly traded stocks and bonds, Durkan
said. He didn’t tell customers he was diverting significant
amounts of money to Tamarac and TeraHop or disclose that he was
involved in managing the companies and received payments from
them, prosecutors said.  TeraHop, a Georgia company, is no longer in business.
Tamarac, based in Seattle, provides software to financial
planners.  Spangler cooperated with the government’s investigation,
meeting with prosecutors and providing documents, said Jon
Zulauf, his attorney.  “We are disappointed that charges have been filed,”
Zulauf said in a telephone interview. The lawyer said he and his
client will fight the charges.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Spangler, 12-133, and the SEC
case is SEC v. Spangler, 12-856, U.S. District Court, Western
District of Washington (Seattle)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco 
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 