-- Second Army Corps Official Pleads in Bribe Conspiracy
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-05-18T00:20:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/second-army-corps-official-pleads-in-bribe-conspiracy.html
A former U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
contracting official, Kerry Khan, pleaded guilty to his role as
ringleader in what prosecutors called the largest bribery scheme
ever uncovered in federal contracting.  Khan, formerly of Alexandria,  Virginia , admitted today to
U.S. District Judge Emmet G. Sullivan in  Washington  that he took
bribes and conspired to launder money in connection with the
$20 million kickback and false-billing scheme tied to federal
technology contracts. His son, Lee Khan, pleaded guilty to the
same  money-laundering  charge.  “I wish to enter a plea of guilty because I am guilty,
sir,” Khan told the court after Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael
Atkinson outlined a plan of fictitious and inflated contracts
and bribery that garnered Khan almost $12 million.  He admitted he was owed another $14 million from
contractors at the time of his arrest. In addition, Khan
received gifts including BMW cars, Rolex watches and flat screen
television sets for setting up the corrupt contracts, Atkinson
said. The inflated or fictitious amounts were referred to as
“overhead,” Atkinson said.  Khan was ordered to forfeit about $11 million including
$1.4 million in cash and 13 properties in Virginia,  Florida  and
 West Virginia  bought with proceeds of the crime.  Ringleader’s Responsibility  “Today the ringleader of the largest bribery and bid-
steering scheme in the history of federal contracting accepted
responsibility for his crimes,” U.S. Attorney Ronald Machen in
Washington said in a statement. “For his shocking abuse of his
position of power, Kerry Khan faces more than two decades in
prison.”  Six others, including another former Army Corps official,
had already pleaded guilty.  The maximum sentence for the bribery count is 15 years in
prison and the maximum sentence for the count of conspiracy to
commit money laundering is 20 years. Sullivan set sentencing for
Aug. 15.  In February, former  Army Corps  contracting official Michael
A. Alexander admitted to taking bribes and conspiring with Kerry
Khan to launder money.  Alexander said he and Kerry Khan funneled more than
$45 million through a contract he managed.  The scheme took advantage of a five-year contract with the
Army Corps under the so-called TIGER program, according to an
indictment unsealed on Oct. 4.  Homeland Security  Government agencies, including  Homeland Security ,  NASA  and
the Coast Guard, use the TIGER contract to acquire information-
technology services and physical and infrastructure security.  The scheme was made possible by Kerry Khan’s position as a
program director in the Army Corps’s directorate of operations,
which administers the TIGER contract, prosecutors said. He had
authority to place orders through TIGER that don’t require
competitive bidding, according to the indictment.  Prosecutors said those involved in the scheme were planning
to expand the bribery operation under a contract called CORES.  The award potential for contracts placed under CORES was
almost $1 billion, they said.  The case is U.S. v. Khan, 1:11-cr-00276, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 