-- Senate Republicans Urge Action Soon to Avoid U.S. Fiscal Cliff
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-05-17T20:32:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/senate-republicans-urge-action-soon-to-avoid-u-s-fiscal-cliff.html
Congress should act to avert an
“utterly predictable” fiscal cliff of tax increases and
spending cuts at the end of the year, 41 Republicans in the  U.S.
Senate  wrote in a letter to Majority Leader Harry Reid today.  If Congress does nothing, the George W. Bush-era tax cuts
will expire Dec. 31 and automatic spending cuts will start in
2013. The combined effect of those and other scheduled fiscal
changes could reduce gross domestic product by about 3 percent,
Barclays Capital estimates.  “It is essential that Congress and the president address
these coming tax increases this summer, rather than creating
additional uncertainty for families and job creators by waiting
until the last possible minute,” the senators wrote. “The time
to begin is now. Inaction is irresponsible.”  Lawmakers are sharply divided over what to do about the
expiring tax breaks and the scheduled spending cuts that both
parties are politicizing in advance of the Nov. 6 election and
an expected lame-duck session before a new Congress is sworn in
Jan. 3, 2013.  Democrats want what they call a balanced approach that
would allow tax increases for top earners. Republicans say
spending cuts alone should be used to reduce the  budget deficit .  ‘Grandstand’ Play  “Republicans can grandstand all they want,” Reid, a
Nevada Democrat, said on May 15. “The fact is any agreement to
avoid the fiscal cliff facing us at the end of this year must
not gut programs that support the middle class like Medicare and
Social Security and education. It must be balanced with policies
that ask millionaires to help a little bit and do their fair
share.”  Preventing the tax increases would boost the economy, the
Republicans wrote.  “We can think of no better steps to take than to address
the recessionary threat of Taxmageddon and eliminate some of the
uncertainty that continues to contribute to economic malaise,”
they wrote.  The letter was signed by 41 of the 47 Republicans in the
U.S. Senate. Those who didn’t sign it were Scott Brown of
Massachusetts,  Tom Coburn  of Oklahoma,  Susan Collins  of Maine,
 Bob Corker  of Tennessee,  Dean Heller  of Nevada and  Lisa Murkowski  of Alaska.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  