-- Fed Board Nominees Powell, Stein Win Senate Confirmation
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-05-17T19:40:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/senate-confirms-powell-stein-to-seats-on-fed-board.html
The U.S. Senate today confirmed
President  Barack Obama ’s two nominees to the  Federal Reserve 
Board with both receiving the support of at least 70 senators.  The Senate voted 70-24 to confirm the nomination of  Jeremy Stein , a Harvard University professor and 74-21 to confirm
Jerome Powell, an attorney and private equity investor who was a
Treasury undersecretary for President George H.W. Bush.  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Democrat from Nevada,
said the $2 billion trading loss announced last week at  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  prompted his decision to push the nominations
through and bolster the Fed’s regulatory expertise with the
nominees, experts in financial markets.  Powell and Stein won approval in March from the Senate
Banking Committee over the opposition of Republican Senators
James DeMint of South Carolina and David Vitter of Louisiana.
Vitter demanded a vote on the nominees in the full chamber,
saying today on the Senate floor that Powell and Stein would
probably back the “very dangerous” Fed policy of keeping
 interest rates  near zero.  Senator  Bob Corker , a Republican from Tennessee, said
during Senate debate that he would support the nominees even as
he remained concerned the central bank isn’t doing enough to
ensure  price stability .  “I am very concerned about the overly accommodative
efforts that are taking place right now at the Federal
Reserve,” said Corker. “These two nominees, candidly, do not
represent the kind of more hawkish position I would like to see
the Federal Reserve take,” yet “at the same time, these
gentlemen both are qualified.”  No Policy Shift  The addition of Powell and Stein to the  Federal Open Market
Committee  probably won’t shift policy, said Lewis Alexander,
chief U.S. economist at Nomura Securities International Inc. in
 New York .  “It doesn’t strike me that they’re going to fundamentally
change the balance” of views on the FOMC, Alexander said.  The two new governors may help ensure policy continuity
when Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s term ends in January of 2014, he
said.  “There has been a lot of speculation about how policy
could change with potentially a new president and Bernanke
leaving, and this reduces the chances of a discrete change in
policy,” Alexander said. With fewer appointments for a new
president to make “there’s a greater chance of continuity.”  At their nomination hearings before the banking committee
this year, Powell and Stein said they would help the Fed
withdraw stimulus when necessary yet did not express urgency to
begin doing so.  ‘Snuff Out’ Recovery  “There’s tremendous risk in the exit, and that’s well
understood,” Powell said in response to a question about the
Fed’s balance sheet during the hearing. “You don’t want to do
it too early and snuff out a recovery that’s still weak and you
don’t want to do it too late and cause inflation.”  Powell and Stein emphasized their experience with  capital
markets  in their hearing. Powell highlighted his work as an
investor and investment banker, while Stein discussed his
research on the 1987 stock-market crash and the impact of
monetary policy on the banking system.  “Having two experts on the financial markets at the Fed
will make a significant difference,” said Christopher Low,
chief economist at FTN Financial in New York. “That’s a huge
increase in the Fed’s knowledge base and it’ll make it easier
for them to judge how these new regulations are going to affect
activity.”  Visiting Scholar  Powell was a partner at the  Carlyle Group LP (CG) , a private-
equity firm, from 1997 through 2005, where he led the industrial
group within the U.S. buyout fund, according to a biography from
the Bipartisan Policy Center, where he is a visiting scholar.  Stein served in the Obama administration from February to
July 2009 as a senior adviser to the Treasury secretary and on
the staff of the National Economic Council, according to
Harvard’s website.  “Today’s broad bipartisan vote in the Senate reflects
their deep knowledge of economic and monetary policy, as well as
their distinguished backgrounds and unique experience,”  Jay Carney , the White House Press Secretary, said in a statement.  Once sworn in, the new governors would give the Fed a
complete seven-member board of governors for the first time
since 2006.  The Fed’s board includes Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and Vice
Chairman Janet Yellen, both economists;  Daniel Tarullo , a former
professor at the Georgetown University Law Center;  Sarah Bloom Raskin , a former top bank regulator for Maryland; and  Elizabeth Duke , who had been a community banker.  Powell will fill the term vacated by Frederic Mishkin,
which expires in 2014. Stein will fill the seat of former
governor  Kevin Warsh , with a term that lasts through 2018.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  