-- Senate’s Brown Urges Dimon to Consider Compensation Clawbacks
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-05-17T17:59:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/senate-s-brown-urges-dimon-to-consider-compensation-clawbacks.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  should “impose financial
penalties” on the employees responsible for the bank’s trading
loss of more than $2 billion, U.S. Senator  Scott Brown  said.  “It has been very frustrating to watch the continuing
volatility in our financial markets, and this $2 billion loss,
while painful, provides a good opportunity for JPMorgan to prove
that compensation practices have truly changed since the 2008
financial crisis,” Brown, a Massachusetts Republican, wrote in
a letter yesterday to Dimon.  Brown, one of three Senate Republicans who supported the
2010 Dodd-Frank Act, is seeking reelection in a close race with
Democrat  Elizabeth Warren , who advised President  Barack Obama  in
setting up the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. JPMorgan
may reclaim incentive pay from employees responsible for the
loss, Dimon said this week.  JPMorgan, the biggest and most profitable U.S. bank, is
facing scrutiny from federal regulators and a  Department of
Justice  investigation in the wake of Dimon’s disclosure of the
losses, which occurred in the bank’s chief investment office.
Ina Drew, who headed that unit, stepped down this week.  Stock awards for members of JPMorgan’s operating committee
can be canceled or reclaimed if a member “improperly or with
gross negligence” fails to identify risk, the bank said in its
annual proxy statement. Drew and others who served on the panel
also can have 2012 stock awards canceled if Dimon deems their
performance was “unsatisfactory for a sustained period of
time,” according to the proxy.  “It is my hope that you will use this provision to its
full potential to address this situation,” Brown said in his
letter, referring to the language in the proxy statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  