-- Senator Collins Asks Labor to Exam Trading Before Release
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-05-17T23:36:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/senator-collins-asks-labor-to-exam-trading-before-release.html
Maine Senator  Susan Collins , the top
Republican on the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs
Committee, asked the Labor Department to probe what she called
unusual trading activity prior to a report on employment in
April.  “The sudden and negative movement in the currency and
futures markets suggests the possibility that some traders may
have gained unauthorized access to April’s disappointing report
prior to its official release,” Collins said in a letter to
Secretary of Labor Hilda Solis.  The Labor Department’s May 4 report showed that employers
in the U.S. added 115,000 workers to payrolls, the fewest in six
months and less than forecast by economists.  Treasury 10-year note futures contracts rose as high as 132
20/32 at 8:29 a.m. before the payrolls data was released at 8:30
a.m., after trading in a range of 132 2/32 and 132 5/32 just
prior to the release. After the data came out, futures continued
to rise, climbing as high as 132 22/32 before settling at 132
20/32.  Michael Shore , a  CME Group Inc. (CME)  spokesman, said in a phone
interview that the firm had no comment on whether it was looking
into the incident, or whether it was contacted by U.S. policy
makers.  The Chicago-based CME Group, the owner of the world’s
largest futures exchange, operates a derivatives exchange that
trades futures contracts and options on futures,  interest rates ,
stock indexes, foreign exchange and, commodities.  Reviewing Letter  “We are reviewing the Senator’s letter and look forward to
responding,” Carl A. Fillichio, the Labor Department’s senior
adviser for communications and public affairs, said in an e-mail
today.  “A month before this alleged May 4 incident, the
department announced a series of substantive changes aimed at
further reinforcing protections to ensure the integrity of
sensitive data,” Fillichio said. “We are currently working
with news organizations, including Bloomberg, on how we will
implement those changes. I am confident that we will all pull
together to enhance the processes and procedures that protect
vital economic data.”  The Department of Labor announced changes resulting from
the first review of procedures in a decade at so-called lockups,
where data on employment and consumer prices are released to
journalists.  Government Equipment  The agency ordered media organizations to remove computer
software, hardware and communications lines they have installed
at the department. Instead, reporters, including those working
for Bloomberg News, will have to use government equipment,
software and Internet connections.  Fillichio said at the time that he couldn’t promise that
journalists will be able to transmit market-sensitive economic
releases at exactly the same time under the new procedures.  He cited “violations of the embargo and the use of
equipment in the lockups” as a rationale for the changes, while
declining to provide specifics.  Under the current system, credentialed journalists in
lockups are given data in advance of their release to the
public, allowing time to prepare stories. Communication by phone
or computer is cut off for the half hour that reporters are
typically given to write stories. A Department of Labor employee
then flips a switch that opens telephone and data lines,
allowing journalists to transmit their stories using their own
equipment.  Blunt’s Letter  Senator  Roy Blunt , a Missouri Republican, last week wrote a
letter to the department saying the new procedures risk
disrupting financial markets.  “Given the market-moving impact of these numbers and the
largely automated processes of today’s market institutions, even
a minor flaw in the timing or accuracy of this data could result
in a destructive impact on global markets,” Blunt wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net 
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  