-- Serb Dinar Drops to Lowest in Decade Before Presidential Runoff
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-05-17T14:49:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/serb-dinar-drops-to-lowest-in-decade-before-presidential-runoff.html
Serbia ’s dinar fell to its lowest
level in a decade as investors remain wary before the
presidential runoff on May 20, prompting the central bank to
sell more euros to prop up the currency.  The dinar shed 0.7 percent against the euro today, falling
to as low as 113.70. The central bank stepped in to sell euros,
said Sonja Miladinovski, a board member of the Serbian unit of
Societe Generale SA. The dinar ended the day at 113.4361 to the
euro at 4 p.m. in Belgrade, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Serbians go to polls to choose between a path to Europe
with Democratic Party leader and incumbent  Boris Tadic  or
 Tomislav Nikolic , the leader of the Progressive Party, which
prefers political and economic ties with  Russia .  “The dinar is definitely psychologically driven and lean
volumes in the market are insufficient to change the trend,”
Miladinovski said in a phone interview. “The market is waiting
for the outcome of the election and hopes the  International
Monetary Fund  will return soon to confirm the loan program.”  The Washington-based lender suspended a $1.3 billion
precautionary loan program for Serbia in February after it
became clear the country will slip on agreed fiscal targets.  The central bank has urged politicians to quickly form a
new cabinet and commit to a tighter budget to win back the IMF
support and reassure investors that policies remain on track.  Propping Up the Dinar  The dinar is 12.12 percent weaker than a year ago and the
fourth worst-performing currency of 174 tracked by Bloomberg.
The National Bank of Serbia, which left its benchmark  interest
rate  unchanged at 9.5 percent on May 10, has spent $1 billion
this year to aid the dinar as investors leave Serbia on  Europe ’s
debt crisis and European demand for Serbian exports wanes.  The central bank sent a “wrong message to investors”
yesterday when it said it was intervening because both the
fiscal slippage and the dinar pressure are temporary, said
Ljiljana Grubic, the chief analyst at Belgrade-based Raiffeisen
Banka AD.  “They will have to act with an interest rate increase” to
change the trend, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  