-- Several on FOMC Said Easing May Be Needed on Faltering
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-05-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/several-on-fomc-said-easing-may-be-needed-on-faltering.html
The  Federal Reserve  signaled further
monetary easing remains an option to protect the  U.S. economy 
from the danger that lawmakers will fail to reach agreement on
the budget or  Europe ’s debt woes worsen.  Several members of the  Federal Open Market Committee  said
new actions could be necessary if the economy loses momentum or
“downside risks to the forecast became great enough,”
according to minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee’s
April meeting released yesterday in Washington.  U.S. stocks declined yesterday as reports the  European
Central Bank  will stop lending to some Greek banks overshadowed
stronger-than-forecast data on U.S. housing and manufacturing. A
focus on threats to the U.S. economy gives officials more scope
to ease policy, said  Michael Hanson , senior U.S. economist at
Bank of America Corp. in  New York .  “If you have very clear and potentially large downside
risks, like the fiscal cliff and Europe’s debt crisis, you are
going to have a little more of an easing bias in place,” said
Hanson, who formerly worked in the Fed’s monetary affairs
division.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  fell 0.4 percent to
1,324.80, the lowest since February. Treasury notes erased
losses, leaving the yield on the 10-year Treasury note little
changed at 1.76 percent.  A fiscal tightening caused by a failure of U.S. lawmakers
to agree on a budget could damage the economy even before cuts
take effect as an unclear outcome prompts businesses to defer
investment and hiring decisions, the minutes said.  Bernanke Warning  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  warned a group of senators
last week that the expiration of fiscal policies at the end of
the year may push the U.S. into recession, according to
lawmakers who attended the meeting.  Fed governor  Elizabeth Duke  told a gathering of Realtors
May 15 that the combined impact of the changes could amount to
about 4 percent of the country’s economy.  Programs scheduled to end include tax cuts enacted under
President  George W. Bush , a payroll-tax holiday and extended
unemployment benefits. In addition, budget cuts are set to take
effect in January of 2013 as part of a deal last year in
Congress to raise the U.S. statutory borrowing limit.  Central bankers last month affirmed their plan to hold
interest  rates  near zero at least through late 2014 as they
sought to push down an  unemployment rate  that has stayed above 8
percent for more than three years.  Rate Guidance  Fed policy makers discussed the conditions for any change
in the 2014 horizon for low rates. The minutes cited a lack of
confidence in their forecasts as one reason to leave the
guidance unchanged.  “Some members recalled that gains in employment
strengthened in early 2010 and again in early 2011 only to
diminish as those years progressed,” the minutes said.
“Moreover, the uncertain effects of the unusually mild winter
weather were cited as making it harder to discern the underlying
trend in the economic data.”  St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  told reporters
yesterday that there is “good logic” to putting policy “on
hold” for an indefinite period of time.  “Until we get a clear difference in the economic outlook”
with an acceleration or slowdown, there is no need to change
course, Bullard said in Louisville,  Kentucky .  Yesterday’s minutes summarized a meeting before the Labor
Department report on May 4 showed U.S. employers added 115,000
jobs in April, the least in six months. The unemployment  rate 
fell to 8.1 percent, the lowest since January 2009, as people
left the  labor force .  Jobless Claims  More recent data has allayed concern the job market is
cooling. First time  claims  for  unemployment benefits  declined to
a one-month low of 367,000 in the period ended May 5, Labor
Department data showed last week. The Labor Department may
report today that claims fell by another 2,000 last week,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  The Fed said at its April meeting that the central bank
would continue its swap of $400 billion of short-term debt with
long-term debt to lengthen the average maturity of its holdings
and help lower the interest rate on Treasuries, a move dubbed
Operation Twist. The Fed is scheduled to complete the program at
the end of June.  The central bank said in forecasts released with its April
statement that it expects unemployment to fall to 7.8 percent to
8.0 percent by the final three months of this year. Gross
domestic product is likely to rise by 2.4 percent to 2.9 percent
this year, according to the so-called central tendency estimates
that exclude the highest and lowest forecasts.  Growth Cools  Economic growth slowed to a 2.2 percent annual rate in the
first quarter of this year from 3 percent in the final three
months of 2011.  A stabilization of housing, the industry at the heart of
the financial crisis, may provide a boost to the economy.  Builders broke ground on more homes than anticipated in
April, Commerce Department data showed yesterday. Housing starts
rose 2.6 percent to a 717,000 annual rate. A Fed report
yesterday showed industrial production rose 1.1 percent in in
April, propelled by gains in auto manufacturing and utility use.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  