-- Singapore Warns of Europe Default Risk as Economy Grows 10%
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-05-17T01:42:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/singapore-warns-of-europe-default-risk-as-economy-expands-10-.html
Singapore ’s government said the risk
of a “disorderly” debt default in Europe can’t be ruled out,
clouding the outlook for its economy even as growth rebounded
last quarter.  Gross domestic product  rose an annualized 10 percent in the
three months through March 31 from the previous quarter, more
than an initial estimate of 9.9 percent growth, the Trade
Ministry said today. The median of 14 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey was for a 10.6 percent gain.  Greece ’s inability to form a new government after an
inconclusive election could reverse progress made in resolving
Europe’s debt turmoil, compounding risks stemming from a China
growth slowdown and an uneven U.S. recovery. While Singapore
tightened policy in April through faster currency gains to curb
persistent price pressures, most Asian policy makers are holding
or cutting  interest rates  to bolster their economies.  “The developments in Europe pose a significant downside
risk to Singapore’s economy,” said  Euben Paracuelles , a
Singapore-based economist at Nomura Holdings Inc.  “It’s hard
for  Asia  to escape the repercussions if there’s a European
recession and it’s accompanied by financial market instability
and a banking crisis,” he said, adding Singapore’s growth
outlook beyond the second quarter “is very poor.”  The  Singapore dollar  rose 0.3 percent to S$1.2651 against
its U.S. counterpart at 9:39 a.m. local time today. It is the
region’s best performer this year, gaining about 2.5 percent.  ‘Downside Risks’  Japan ’s economy expanded faster than economists predicted
in the first quarter, propelled by reconstruction spending, a
report showed today. GDP rose an annualized 4.1 percent.  Singapore maintained its forecast for GDP growth of 1
percent to 3 percent this year. The island’s exports rose 8.3
percent in April, beating the median estimate of economists, as
manufacturers shipped more petrochemicals and sales to  China 
rebounded, a separate report showed.  “Singapore’s growth momentum has picked up, anchored by a
strong upturn in the manufacturing sector,” the Trade Ministry
said. “Nevertheless, the recovery in the global economy remains
fragile and vulnerable to downside risks.”  A “disorderly sovereign debt default in the Eurozone”
that would hurt the global economy and Singapore’s export-
dependent industries cannot be ruled out, the ministry said.  Ripple Effects  A Greek caretaker government will prepare new elections,
probably on June 17, that may decide whether the country should
remain a euro member. World Bank President  Robert Zoellick  said
yesterday that a Greek exit from the euro could have ripple
effects reminiscent of 2008, when Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s collapse was followed by a global financial crisis.  The consequences of a Greek euro exit would be
“unimaginable” and “catastrophic” for  Europe ,  Malaysia ’s
central bank Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television aired today. Several U.S. Federal Reserve
policy makers said a loss of momentum in growth or increased
risks to their economic outlook could warrant additional action
to keep the recovery going, minutes of their April meeting
released yesterday showed.  Singapore’s central bank, which uses the  exchange rate  to
manage  inflation , said last month it will increase “slightly”
the slope of the currency trading band, and raised its forecast
for consumer-price gains to 3.5 percent to 4.5 percent in 2012.
Minister for Trade and Industry Lim Hng Kiang said this week
inflation is estimated to remain at about 5 percent in the next
few months.  The Monetary Authority of Singapore guides the local dollar
against a basket of currencies within an undisclosed band. It
adjusts the pace of appreciation or depreciation by changing the
slope, width and center of the band.  Price Pressures  The central bank also restored a narrower policy band for
the currency last month, a move that Deputy Managing Director
Ong Chong Tee told reporters today was appropriate as inflation
will peak or slow for the rest of the year.  Higher oil costs, rising housing rents, more expensive
private transportation and unemployment near a three-year low
have sustained price pressures in the city state. Economic
expansion has also been supported by rising tourist arrivals and
construction demand.  GDP increased 1.6 percent from a year earlier last quarter,
after rising 3.6 percent the previous three months. The
expansion matched an April government estimate and compared with
the median forecast of a 1.8 percent gain in a Bloomberg survey.
The economy contracted 2.5 percent in the fourth quarter from
the previous period.  Vulnerable to Fluctuations  “While it all appears good and rosy, downside risks in the
global environment have once again re-emerged,”  Irvin Seah , an
economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in Singapore, said before
the report. “A pullback in Singapore’s GDP growth in the second
quarter should not be a surprise.”  Singapore, located at the southern end of the 600-mile
(965-kilometer) Malacca Strait and home to one of the world’s
busiest container ports, has remained vulnerable to fluctuations
in overseas demand for manufactured goods even as the government
boosts the financial services and tourism industries to reduce
reliance on exports.  Weaker European demand is particularly troubling for
countries including Singapore,  Thailand  and  South Korea , where
overseas sales make up the equivalent of half or more of gross
domestic product. China’s exports rose less than estimated in
April, while Philippine and Malaysian shipments unexpectedly
fell in March, reports earlier this month showed.  Singapore’s manufacturing fell 1 percent from a year
earlier last quarter, after climbing 9.2 percent in the three
months ended Dec. 31, the Trade Ministry said today. The
services industry grew 2.2 percent, while construction expanded
7.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  