-- Solexel Raises $25 Million for Silicon Gas-Based Solar Panels
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-05-17T21:20:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/solexel-raises-25-million-for-silicon-gas-based-solar-panels.html
Solexel Inc. , a closely held U.S.
solar-panel maker that uses silicon gas to manufacture its
wafers, received $25 million to build a pilot plant in
 California , according to an executive.  New investor Gentry Venture Partners led the financing,
which is the first close of Solexel’s Series C round, Mark Kerstens, the company’s chief sales and marketing officer, said
today by telephone.  SunPower Corp. (SPWR) , the U.S. solar-panel maker
that’s 66 percent-owned by  Total SA (FP) , also was a new investor and
participated with existing backers Kleiner Perkins Caufield &
Byers, Technology Partners and DAG Ventures LLC, he said.  The pilot is intended to test Solexel’s manufacturing
process with larger equipment that would be used in a factory
planned in  Malaysia , according to Kerstens.  “We have already proven that the technology works on the
smaller tools,” he said. “We will be building out
manufacturing capacity to prove scalability.”  Solexel, based in Milpitas, California, makes its solar
cells using silicon gas instead of growing silicon ingots in
furnaces and slicing them into wafers like other companies,
according to Kerstens. Those processes are more expensive
because more silicon is required and about half of it is wasted,
he said.  “We do away with the traditional process of a polysilicon
plant,” Kerstens said. “We deposit a gas and we grow every
wafer individually, and we can therefore control the
thickness,” he said.  Malaysia Factory  The technology produces cells that are “ultra thin” and
more efficient at converting light to electricity than
conventional photovoltaic materials, Kerstens said.  He wouldn’t say what the manufacturing capacity of the
pilot will be or when production is expected to begin in
Malaysia.  Solexel’s 100-acre (405 hectares) site at Senai Hi-Tech
Park in southern Malaysia may accommodate a factory capable of
making 1 gigawatt of solar panels a year, Kerstens said. It will
be developed in stages, beginning with a 200 megawatt-a-year
 production line  that may cost $275 million, he said. The entire
project may require an investment of $930 million, Solexel said
when it was announced in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  