-- Sony Fights With Cinemas Over 3-D Glasses as Debut Nears
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-05-18T20:42:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/sony-fights-with-cinemas-over-3-d-glasses-as-debut-nears.html
Sony Pictures and major cinema
operators are locked in a standoff over who will pay for 3-D
glasses for “Men in Black 3,” a major summer release a week
away from its debut.  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s film unit and theater executives are in
discussions to resolve the dispute over 3-D showings of the
movie, scheduled to open on May 25, according to a person with
knowledge of the situation who requested anonymity because the
talks are private. In recent weeks executives from  Regal
Entertainment Group (RGC) , the largest chain, and  Cinemark Holdings
Inc. (CNK) , the third biggest, have said they won’t give in.  “So far as I know, nothing has changed,” since the
comments,  John Fithian , president of the National Association of
Theatre Owners, said in an interview.  The conflict began in September, when Sony said it would
stop paying for glasses, starting with “Men in Black.” When 3-
D arrived, major cinemas agreed to pay a 50-cent per ticket fee
to  RealD Inc. (RLD) , their technology supplier, while studios would
foot the 40-cent tab for glasses, said  Eric Wold , a B. Riley &
Co. analyst in  San Francisco . Now, Sony wants theaters to pay
both.  “Men in Black 3,” is a revival of the science-fiction
comedy series starring Will Smith and Tommy Lee Jones as special
agents charged with managing Earth’s secret alien population.
Another big Sony 3-D release, “The Amazing Spider-Man,” is
scheduled for release on July 3.  Profit Hit  The showdown highlights tension between cinemas and studios
as online viewing has become popular. With a drop in DVD sales
hurting studio profits, for example, film distributors have
sought to limit the time movies spend in theaters so they can be
sold earlier on the home-video market.  In the current dispute, bearing the cost of glasses would
erode the added profit cinema chains get from the higher prices
charged for 3-D showings.  “The exhibitors are saying they already are paying their
share,” Wold said. “If the cinemas won’t pay for these
glasses, the exhibitors won’t show the films in 3-D.”  Executives at Sony,  Beverly Hills , California-based RealD,
Plano, Texas-based Cinemark, the third-largest theater chain,
and  Carmike Cinemas Inc. (CKEC)  declined to comment. Regal, based in
Knoxville, Tennessee, and Kansas City, Missouri-based  AMC
Entertainment Inc. (AMC) , the No. 2 U.S. cinema chain, didn’t return
calls seeking comment.  ‘Established Model’  “We have an established business model today, where we pay
a piece of our ticket price to RealD as a fee for equipment, and
the studios have paid for the 3-D glasses,” Regal Chief
Executive Officer Amy Miles said on a March 15 conference call.
The company won’t accept any plan that asks Regal to pay more
for 3-D movies, she said.  Cinemark CEO Timothy Warner reiterated his opposition to
any change on a May 7 call. “I don’t see the model changing,”
he said in response to a question.  In a similar showdown three years ago,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
Twentieth Century Fox relented and paid for glasses, Wold said
in a May 14 note. Fox attempted to pass the cost of glasses on
to exhibitors with the release of “Ice Age: Dawn of the
Dinosaurs” before backing down as the release date neared. Wold
predicted a similar outcome for “Men in Black 3.”  Studios never agreed to bear the cost of 3-D glasses
indefinitely, Steve Elzer, a spokesman for Culver City,
California-based Sony Pictures, said in September. The need for
a new system has been a topic of discussion within the industry
for some time, he said then.  The American depositary receipts of Tokyo-based  Sony Corp. (SNE) 
fell 3.3 percent to $13.77 at 4 p.m. in  New York . They have
declined 24 percent this year.  In most U.S. cinemas, glasses are provided by RealD, the
leading maker of 3-D projection equipment. Studios and cinemas
split the premium for 3-D screenings, which averages about $3 a
ticket, Wold said.  “Either Sony needs to continue to pay for the glasses as
every other studio is doing, or just choose not to make movies
in 3-D,” Wold said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  