-- Southern Heat, Western Wildfires May Dominate U.S. Summer
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-05-17T17:20:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/southern-heat-western-wildfires-may-dominate-u-s-summer.html
The southern U.S. will probably be
warmer than normal from June to August while the West may have
major outbreaks of wildfires, government forecasters said.  Temperatures are expected to be above normal for the next
three months from interior portions of  California  to the East
Coast and from southern  New Jersey  to  Florida , according to the
U.S.  Climate Prediction Center  in  Camp Springs ,  Maryland .  There are too many conflicting signals for an accurate
forecast for the Northeast, including  New York City , said Jon
Gottschalck, a forecaster at the climate center. For that
region, the chances that the summer will be hotter, cooler or
just normal are all equal, Gottschalck said.  How hot large cities along the East Coast will get this
summer may affect electricity demand and natural gas markets.
The low price of natural gas has led to more power plants using
the fuel to produce electricity.  The western U.S. may have severe wildfires this summer,
said Greg Carbin, warning coordination meteorologist at the
 Storm Prediction Center  in Norman,  Oklahoma .  A lack of snowpack in the western mountains will mean less
water in the region. Coupled with current moderate to severe
drought conditions across the Southwest, that’s left vegetation
dried out and ready to burn, Carbin said.  “The conditions out there aren’t going to improve very
much,” Carbin said during a conference call with reporters.
“We may see a pretty significant wildfire season developing.”  Dangerous Pacific Storms  Carbin said storms moving inland from the Pacific with high
winds and lightening are potentially dangerous.  In June 2008, such a storm sparked off more than 2,000
fires in a single day, leading to one of California’s worst
wildfire seasons, according to the state’s  Department of
Forestry and Fire Protection .  Gottschalck said forecasters also can’t be certain how much
rain will fall across the Midwest and Great Plains during the
period. That’s partly because forecasters don’t know if this
year will bring an El Nino, a pattern in which waters of the
central  Pacific Ocean  become warmer than normal.  The ocean is experiencing normal conditions since a cooling
of the water, called a La Nina, ended last month. El Nino and La
Nina conditions affect weather across the U.S. The climate
center will issue its next forecast on the Pacific on June 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  