-- South Africa Energy Minister Favors Tapping Shale-Gas Fields
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-05-17T16:04:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/south-africa-energy-minister-favors-tapping-shale-gas-fields-1-.html
South African Energy Minister Dipuo
Peters said she wants the country’s shale-gas reserves to be
tapped if the process can be undertaken safely.  The government last year halted plans for hydraulic
fracturing as it studied the environmental repercussions of
allowing companies including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Falcon Oil &
Gas Ltd. (FO)  and Bundu Oil & Gas (Pty) Ltd. to employ the practice.
Fracking, which involves blasting water mixed with sand and
chemicals underground to free trapped hydrocarbons from shale
formations, has been banned in  France  and Bulgaria.  “We are conflicted when it comes to the issues of shale
gas,” Peters told reporters in Cape Town today. “We have got
to look at South  Africa  becoming self-reliant in energy
resources. If extraction of the gas can be done safely, let’s go
and do it.”  South Africa, a net oil importer that’s threatened by power
shortages, has the fifth-largest technically recoverable shale
resources of 32 countries, an initial  assessment  commissioned by
the U.S. Energy Information Administration shows. The nation
holds about 485 trillion cubic feet, according to the study that
was published last year.  Developing a 10th of that may boost the economy by about
200 billion rand ($27 billion) a year, a study by Johannesburg-
based research company Econometrix Ltd. and commissioned by
Shell showed earlier this year.  Nuclear Ambitions  If fracking does get the go-ahead, it is unlikely to
dissuade the government from implementing plans to build new
nuclear  power plants , Peters said.  “If we are told today that it’s possible, just ask
yourself when will it kick in,” she said. “It would be
considered as having potential for security of energy” in the
future.  Proposals to spend 300 billion rand ($36 billion) on
nuclear plants with the capacity to generate 9,600 megawatts of
energy by 2029 are in the “final stages of consideration,”
 South Africa ’s National Treasury said in the budget in February.
Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd., the state power utility, operates
Africa’s only atomic power station at Koeberg near Cape Town,
which started generating electricity in 1984.  The government is still assessing how to implement the
nuclear program and hasn’t spoken to companies about building
the plants, Peters said.  A technical team will draft “a report on the steps that we
need to take, what we need to be able to do, the method to go
forward,” she said. “The nuclear plan is part of our plan for
the industrialization of this country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 