-- South Korea Ready to Take Action to Calm Markets
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2012-05-17T02:53:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/south-korea-ready-to-take-action-to-calm-markets.html
South Korea  is prepared to take
“prompt” action to stabilize markets should it be needed as
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis deepens, the country’s vice
finance minister said.  “We are very experienced in dealing with such market
volatilities,” Vice Finance Minister Shin Je Yoon told
reporters after an emergency meeting in Seoul on the situation
in Greece and Europe. “We’re ready with a comprehensive action
plan should the situation worsen.”  Shin met this morning with counterparts from the Bank of
Korea and financial regulators a day after the  European Central
Bank  said it will temporarily stop lending to some Greek banks.
Downside growth risks remain “significant” in light of a
slowdown in the euro area, the  Bank of Korea  said May 10 as it
held  interest rates  for an 11th meeting.  The  finance ministry  said in an e-mailed statement after
today’s meeting that South Korea’s economic fundamentals are
solid and that the country holds an ample amount of foreign
currency reserves.  Won Gains  South Korea’s won advanced for the first time in seven days
today following the emergency meeting, and the benchmark Kospi
rose index rose 0.5 percent as of 11:49 a.m. in Seoul.  The won climbed 0.1 percent to 1,164.25 per dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency touched
1,165.60 yesterday, the weakest level since Jan. 9.  Japan’s Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura today also
highlighted the risk posed by  Europe  as Asia’s second-largest
economy recovers from last year’s earthquake and tsunami.
Japan’s economy expanded by a faster-than-estimated 4.1 percent
in the first quarter of the year, the Cabinet Office said in
Tokyo.  South Korean Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said last week
that he’s ready to take action to stabilize financial markets if
needed. South Korea will continue policy coordination with major
countries such as the U.S., China and Japan if needed for market
stability, he said.  While South Korea’s gross domestic product expanded at the
fastest pace in a year last quarter, the Bank of Korea reduced
its 2012 growth forecast for the country to 3.5 percent from 3.7
percent on April 16 as the outlook for Europe worsened.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cynthia Kim in  Seoul  at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  