-- Spain Approves Regions' $23 Billion of Budget Measures
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-05-17T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/spain-approves-regions-plans-for-23-billion-budget-cuts.html
Spain  approved the budget plans of
all but one region as the semi-autonomous states agreed to
measures worth 18.3 billion euros ($23.2 billion).  The plans of 16 of the 17 regions were approved, Budget
Minister Cristobal Montoro told reporters yesterday after
meeting local finance chiefs in Madrid. The approved plans will
be published on the ministry’s  website  and Asturias, which has
yet to form a government after elections, will have to present a
new plan in two weeks, he said.  “This has been a success,” Montoro said. “Now the
execution starts, and the vigilance.”  The ruling  People’s Party , which has a majority in
Parliament and controls most of the regions, changed the law
last month to allow the central government to intervene in
states that overspend. The regions, which control hospitals and
schools and hire half of public workers, need to cut their
shortfall by half this year as part of the nation’s efforts to
stem a surge in debt.  Regions agreed to cut 13 billion euros of spending this
year and raise another 5.3 billion euros of revenue, Deputy
Minister Antonio Beteta told reporters. Revenue measures include
changes to fuel and income taxes as well as the creation of new
taxes such as environmental levies, he said.  The central government has also pushed regions to cut
health and education spending in measures coordinated from
Madrid. Most have lost access to  capital markets , forcing
regions including Catalonia and Valencia, the most indebted, to
sell so-called patriot bonds to their citizens.  Tap Markets  The government has said it won’t let any regions fail and
is studying ways of supporting states so they can tap markets,
Montoro said. A mechanism should be in place in July, he said,
without giving details.  “The central government will be there,” he said. “We’re
evaluating the best way of allowing the central government to be
there, without giving the region any kind of shelter from its
responsibilities.”  Regions are crucial to the government’s efforts to rein in
the deficit as they control more than a third of spending. All
but one missed their budget goal last year, pushing the national
shortfall to 8.5 percent of gross domestic product compared with
a 6 percent target. The government plans to cut the public
deficit to 5.3 percent of output this year and Montoro said the
central administration would take additional measures if needed
to make sure it meets it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  