-- Spain Crisis Lender for Regions Can Tap ECB to Fill Coffers
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-05-18T08:54:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/spain-s-crisis-lender-for-regions-can-tap-ecb-to-fill-coffers.html
The Spanish government’s bank
channeling aid to cash-strapped regions can keep a lid on its
funding bill by tapping the  European Central Bank  for loans that
cost it a fraction of the amount bond investors will charge.  While Instituto de Credito Oficial has sold 60 percent of
the 20 billion euros ($25 billion) in bonds it planned to issue
in 2012, the lender is also able to use its banking license to
access the ECB’s facilities, said Antonio Cordero, its head of
funding and treasury. That allows the institution to access
money at 1 percent, compared with a cost of more than 5 percent
from investors for its three-year debt.  “Like any other bank, the ICO can pledge loans as
guarantees to obtain Bank of Spain funding,” Cordero said in a
May 11 interview at the lender’s headquarters in Madrid.
“Potentially most of our balance sheet is eligible.”  ICO, a government-owned  development bank  created in the
1970s, has become the main tool used by Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  to bolster regional finances as he struggles to meet
Spain’s 2012 budget-deficit target. The institution’s access to
the ECB shows the reach of emergency measures that pumped more
than 1 trillion euros into the euro area’s banking system.  “We have 5 billion euros of prefunding from 2011, and we
have a banking license and access to so-called non-conventional
funding,” Cordero said. “As efficient managers we try to take
advantage of the best opportunities markets offer.”  Collateral Decision  ICO also stands to benefit from a decision by the ECB in
February to widen the list of  assets eligible  for collateral by
seven central banks including the Bank of  Spain . Because of the
wide use of the ECB’s loans by institutions around the euro
region, there’s no longer any shame associated with using its
emergency facilities, Cordero said.  “Maybe in the past certain operations had stigma attached
to them,” he said. “In this case there is no more debate
because it is clear there is absolutely no stigma, it is simply
an opportunity one can take advantage of or not.”  ICO’s 3 billion euros of 3.75 percent bonds due 2015 yield
5.2 percent, according to Bloomberg Trader bid prices. That
compares with a 1 percent rate the ECB applies to most of its
loans including the 1 trillion euros of three-year financing
provided in two rounds in December and February.  Spanish  government bonds  maturing 2015 yield 4.91 percent,
the highest since December, according to Bloomberg data. That
compares with 0.13 percent investors demand to buy German
government  bonds .  Breathing Space  ICO’s continued access to funding enables it to provide
breathing space for cash-squeezed regions and town halls after
 Europe ’s debt crisis dried up access to bank loans and
investors’ appetite for debt amid a slump in tax receipts.  By the end of June, ICO will have contributed about 7
billion euros in loans for administrations to pay unpaid bills
to suppliers, and 5 billion euros for regional governments to
meet bond redemptions, said Cordero.  That funding, promised by the government when it came to
power, will be delivered this month and next only after
applicant authorities present budget plans in compliance with
the nation’s 2012 deficit goals. Rajoy has pledged to shrink the
euro area’s third-largest budget deficit by 38 percent this year
as the economy endures a recession.  The 7 billion of loans for unpaid bills is part of a wider
government program of syndicated bank loans totaling as much as
35 billion euros. That will help increase gross domestic product
growth by 0.6 percent this year and 0.6 percent next year, said
ICO chief economist Jose Abad.  “The impact of the program isn´t included in the
government’s GDP expectations,” said Abad.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  