-- Spain’s Latin America Assets Threatened by Back-to-Back Seizures
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 2012-05-17T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/spain-s-latin-america-assets-threatened-by-back-to-back-seizures.html
Grupo Ezentis (EZE)  is a Spanish
engineering company that builds and runs phone and power-cable
networks in Spain and  Latin America . “About two-thirds of the
company’s revenue comes from Latin America, and it keeps on
growing,” said Chairman Manuel Garcia-Duran. Without Latin
America, Ezentis would be trapped inside the moribund Spanish
market, where it’s losing money.  Seville-based Ezentis is one of hundreds of Spanish
companies with heavy exposure to the economies of Latin America.
Since 1992, Spanish corporations have spent $117 billion on
Latin American deals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The acquisitions have been pretty constant, especially over the
last 10 years, prompting journalists to dub the phenomenon the
Reconquista, in reference to the conquistadors of the 16th
century, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its May 21-27 issue.  Spanish oil company  Repsol YPF SA’s (REP)  $15.5 billion purchase
of Argentina’s YPF was the biggest deal, while  Telefonica (TEF)  was
the most acquisitive company, spending $41 billion on 40 deals.
Spanish executives wagered that the region had left behind the
instability that saw  Venezuela  nationalize its oil industry and
 Chile  seize its copper mines in the 1970s.  On the whole, the bet has paid off, even if the Spanish did
have to ride out Argentina’s 2001-2002 debt default and
devaluation. Telefonica and  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Spain’s two
biggest companies, generate almost half their sales in Latin
America: Madrid-based Telefonica’s first-quarter profits from
the region outstripped domestic profits for the first time ever.
Spain’s 200 listed companies generate 18 percent of their
revenue in Latin America according to data compiled by Bloomberg
-- a vital prop to these companies as Spain struggles to grow.  Faltering Economy  Yet just when Spain’s faltering economy most needs the
commercial empire it built among its former colonies, a tide of
populism in some of the region’s most resource-rich countries is
threatening its assets. In April, Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  seized control of YPF from Repsol YPF,
claiming that Spanish executives let YPF’s output dwindle by
skimping on investment. Repsol denies the allegation.  Within weeks of the YPF expropriation, Bolivian President
 Evo Morales  sent in the army to take over the country’s power-
grid operator, a subsidiary of Madrid-based  Red Electrica (REE)  Corp.
SA. “We would not be surprised by more nationalizations,”
Marcos Buscaglia, chief Latin America economist at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch in  New York , wrote in a May 4 research
note. They “often come in waves.”  Cape Horn  The historic dimension of the relationship, which dates
back to a time when New Spain stretched from Cape Horn to what
is now the U.S.-Canadian border, casts a shadow over dealings
between Spain and its old colonies. “When things go well,
things are smoothed over. They forget that you were the old
colonial power and you forget how incorrigible they are,” said
Jose Ignacio Torreblanca, head of the  Madrid  office of the
European Council on Foreign Relations. “The problem is when
things go badly.”  The seizure of YPF is popular among Argentines, who still
burn from the condescension they felt from the Spanish over the
years. When the Argentine assembly ratified the move, a giant
portrait of late President  Nestor Kirchner , an ardent
interventionist, was unfurled.  The expropriations “couldn’t possibly come at a worse time
for Spain,” said David Lea, an analyst at Washington-based
Control Risks Group.  Shut Out  Spain’s banks, most of its companies, and its regional
governments have been shut out of the bond markets by investors
concerned the country won’t be able to restart its economy, pay
back its debts, and stick with the euro. Bolivia and  Argentina 
“are taking advantage,” said Rafael Pampillon, head of
economic analysis at the Instituto Empresa business school in
Madrid. “Maybe they think that since the markets are punishing
us unjustly that they can abuse us as well.”  Mexico ,  Brazil , Chile, Colombia and others have shown no
sign of joining the anti-Spanish crusade. Santander, Spain’s
biggest lender, has spent $13.7 billion building a bank network
that runs from Sao Paulo to Mexico City. With Santander’s
Spanish business damaged by the collapse of the property bubble
and 8.9 percent of its domestic loans in default, the lender is
tapping its networks in Latin America to raise cash, a sign it
feels secure in most of its Latin markets.  Santander’s Brazilian division raised $7.1 billion in the
country’s biggest initial public offering in 2009 and now plans
to sell a portion of its Mexican business. “This is a resource
to finance ourselves,” said Marcos Martinez, CEO of the Mexico
division.  Dwindling Power  While  Spain ’s Latin investments have prospered, its
relative economic power has dwindled. Brazil’s economy has
almost doubled in real terms in the 20 years through 2011, while
Spain’s is contracting.  A decade ago Spanish capital was eagerly sought in the
region. Today most Latin countries have abundant foreign
exchange reserves and strong banks. Relations with China are
often far more important than links with Spain. “Latin America
doesn’t need us anymore,” said Torreblanca. “Now they are
globalized, the relationship is pretty asymmetric, and in any
asymmetric relationship you have risks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net 
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  