-- Spain Banks Face Moody’s Cut as Bankia Deposit Run Denied
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-05-17T18:03:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/spain-banks-said-set-for-downgrade-by-moody-s-investors-service.html
Spanish banks face  credit ratings 
downgrades by Moody’s Investors Service as the government denied
there was a run on deposits at  Bankia SA (BKIA) , the ailing lender it’s
taking over.  Moody’s is expected to make a statement on downgrades for
Spanish banks as early as this evening, two people with
knowledge of the situation, who asked not to be identified
because the decision hasn’t been announced, said today. A
Moody’s spokeswoman in  London  declined to comment in a phone
interview.  A cut in credit ratings for Spanish lenders would cap a
tense day for the industry after a report in El Mundo newspaper
that about 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) of deposits had been
pulled from Bankia since the government announced plans to take
it over on May 9. Bankia’s  shares  plunged as much as 29 percent.  Deputy Economy Minister Fernando Jimenez Latorre used a
Madrid news conference on the country’s gross domestic product
data to deny Bankia was suffering a flight of deposits. Bankia,
the lender with the biggest Spanish asset base, said in a filing
to regulators today that changes in deposit level in the first
half of May “have a substantially seasonal nature” and that it
didn’t expect “substantial changes” in coming days.  The main drivers for Moody’s expected action on Spanish
banks today are rising loan defaults, a renewed recession,
restricted funding access and the reduced ability of the
government to support lenders, said one of the people familiar
with the plans. The Spanish newspaper Expansion reported plans
for the downgrade earlier today.  Spanish Yields Rise  Doubts about the health of  Spain ’s banking system have
helped drive up the country’s borrowing costs on concern about
its ability to cover losses caused by a real estate collapse
that threatens to force some lenders to seek state aid. The
yield on 10-year Spanish government debt climbed 3 basis points
to 6.3 percent today as the spread over German bunds widened to
489.2 basis points from 482.2 basis points yesterday.  The government said on May 11 it would require banks to set
aside about 30 billion euros to cover potential losses on real
estate loans that are still performing.  That’s on top of 53.8 billion euros of charges and capital
ordered in February. Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said the
latest banking cleanup would mean the state would inject less
than 15 billion euros in struggling banks.  The property slump has caused bad loans on the books of
Spanish banks to rise sharply as they take physical real estate
such as apartment blocks and land onto their balance sheets as
developers miss payments. The nation’s lenders carry 184 billion
euros of what the Bank of Spain terms “problematic” real
estate-linked assets and the ratio of bad loans to total lending
has surged to 8.16 percent in February compared with less than 1
percent in 2007.  Moody’s cut the debt rating of Spain to A3 from A1 on Feb.
13, citing  Europe ’s debt crisis and downgraded 26 Italian banks
on May 14.  Standard & Poor’s , another ratings company, cut its
credit ratings for 11 Spanish banks, including  Banco Santander
SA (SAN)  and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , the two biggest, on
April 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  