-- Spain’s Economy Contracts on Spending Slump, Exports
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-05-17T07:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/spain-s-economy-contracts-on-spending-slump-exports-correct-.html
(Corrects text of headline to show economy contracted)    Spain ’s  economy  shrank in the first
three months of 2012 as exports slowed and household spending
fell amid the harshest austerity measures in more than three
decades aimed at taming the euro area’s third-largest deficit.  Gross domestic product declined 0.3 percent from the
previous quarter, when it fell the same amount, the Madrid-based
National Statistics Institute said today, confirming an April 30
estimate.  Household spending  contracted 0.6 percent from a year
earlier, while exports rose 2.2 percent, slowing from 5.2
percent in the previous quarter, INE said.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , in power since Dec. 21, is
battling a surge in borrowing costs as investors’ concern about
Spain’s banking industry and a possible exit of  Greece  from the
euro increases the risk of contagion from  Europe ’s debt crisis.  The yield on Spain’s benchmark 10-year bond rose to 6.317
percent today, compared with less than 5 percent in early March,
before Rajoy’s People’s Party government said the country will
miss its 2012 budget deficit target.  The extra cost investors demand to hold Spanish bonds
rather than German debt was 485 basis points, after rising to a
euro-era record of 5.07 percentage points yesterday.  Plugging Car Sales  Rajoy’s government forecasts a 1.7 percent contraction this
year as it raises taxes and cuts public spending to reduce the
deficit by around 27 billion euros ($34 billion) with the
country’s 17 semi-autonomous regions aiming to halve their own
shortfall.  The nation’s unemployment rate, the highest in the European
Union at 24.4 percent, leaving half of young people without a
job, is weighing on demand. A 22 percent plunge in car
registrations in Spain contributed to European deliveries’
declining for a seventh consecutive month in April, the
Brussels-based European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association
said yesterday.  “Spain is suffering a relapse, which is more intense than
the European average, practically without having recovered from
a four year-long crisis,” Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said
on Feb. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  