-- Spanish Region Backs $571 Million Solar Plant Without Subsidies
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2012-05-17T16:46:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/spanish-region-backs-571-million-solar-plant-without-subsidies.html
Spain’s Extremadura region will
support a 450 million-euro ($571 million) photovoltaic plant
planned by German and local developers, its third solar project
that won’t rely on subsidies.  The regional authority signed an agreement to fast-track
permitting for a 400-megawatt solar park by  S.A.G. Solarstrom AG (SAG) 
and Valsolar 2006 SL, according to a statement today. The
developers aim to start building the plant by 2014 and complete
it in 2015.  The solar project, in Calzadilla de los Barros and
Bienvenida, is at least the fifth planned in the nation without
the support of subsidies, which were halted for all new plants
in January. Three have been proposed in Extremadura and two in
Murcia this year.  “This project will be a milestone nationally and in
Europe,” Oliver Guenther, a Solarstrom board member, told a
press conference on May 14. “It will be the first of this size
in Europe that will generate power without state subsidies.”  The latest project in Extremadura will be four times larger
than its biggest equivalent in  Europe . The regional government
signed a similar agreement on May 10 with Ecoenergias del
Guadiana, a local developer, for a 500-megawatt solar park in
Usagre for 725 million euros. In April, it endorsed a 250-
megawatt project planned by another German developer, Gehrlicher
Solar AG, for about 250 million euros.  Wuerth Solar GmbH & Co., another German developer, and
Madrid-based Gestamp Renewables Corp plan solar parks of a
similar scale in Murcia in southeastern Spain.  Solarstrom’s project will substitute two 50-megawatt solar
thermal power projects that were planned by Valsolar before
subsidies were halted. That technology is not viable without
them, while very large photovoltaic plants can be profitable
without support, the Badajoz-based company said.  All large-scale power projects in  Spain  need approval from
the central government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  