-- Stamford Targets $100 Million for Bordeaux Wines, Jade Antiques
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 2012-05-17T01:16:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/stamford-targets-100-million-for-bordeaux-wines-jade-antiques.html
Stamford Management  Group, a
Singapore-based family office that oversees about $300 million,
is seeking $100 million from investors as it opens up funds that
buy French Bordeaux wines and jade antiques.  Stamford , which looks after the wealth of three families
including that of Chairman William Chan, plans to raise $50
million for a fund that invests in wines and the same amount for
a fund that buys Asian antiques, said Chan. Stamford is in talks
with local and foreign private banks to raise money from high-
net-worth individuals and other family offices, he said.  The manager is betting rising affluence in the world’s
fastest growing region will drive demand for luxury items.
Asia’s 3.3 million high-net-worth individuals had $10.8 trillion
in assets, outnumbering those in  Europe  for the first time,
according to the 2011 World Wealth Report by Capgemini and Bank
of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management unit.  “The larger family money is increasingly looking to
professionalize and is looking at  Asia ,” said Chan in an
interview in Singapore yesterday. Dealing with tangible assets
makes it “easier to connect more on an emotive level than say
stocks or bonds, which are non-physical and which you would just
keep with the bank,” he said.  The Cornerstone Grand Cru Investment Fund  buys only wines
with a lifespan of 30 years to more than 100 years mainly from
Bordeaux and some from Italy and  Spain , Chan said. Principals,
including Stamford Asset, have invested about $5 million in the
fund, which returned about 28 percent from May 2010 through July
2011, according to Chan.  Wine Bets  The fund bought futures contracts on Latour 2008 En
Primeur, a French  Bordeaux  wine, at about 150 euro ($191) a
bottle in the middle of 2009, Chan said. The price rose to about
800 euro and the fund took profit by selling the futures at 700
euro, he said.  Stamford has teamed up with Singapore-based wine
distributor Hock Tong Bee (S) Pte, which has a wholesale
distribution channel in Asia, to ensure the liquidity of the
fund by giving it access to customers, Chan said.  “As lifestyle improves in Asia, the potential take up rate
and growth for wines will be very large,” Chan said.  The value of the  Liv-ex 100 Index of Fine Wines , the
industry benchmark, has almost tripled in the past decade.  Art, Antiques  The Asian Art and Antique Fund  buys artefacts including
jade, royal porcelain and Chinese calligraphy at public auctions
such as those run by Christie’s International Plc, Chan said.
The fund will only hold on to the investments for about six
months to 18 months before selling at auctions and to
institutional buyers, Chan said. The fund targets annual returns
of 20 percent, he said.  The transaction amount of the Chinese auction market has
expanded to 93.4 billion  yuan  ($14.8 billion) in 2011 from 125
million yuan in 2000, according to data compiled by Artron
Group, which provides services to Chinese art collectors.  Demand for art is increasing as high-net-worth individuals
look at the asset class as part of their succession planning,
Chan said. Efforts by the Chinese government to buy back art
works from its citizens as part of the nation’s cultural
preservation policy is sustaining prices, he said.  Last year,  China  overtook the U.S. to become the world’s
largest art and antiques market, said a report published by the
Netherlands-based European Fine Art Foundation in March.
Auctions in mainland China,  Hong Kong , Macau and  Taiwan  raised
9.8 billion euros in 2011, according to the report.  “What has been produced in the Qing Dynasty will never be
replicated,” Chan said. “We think that with more funding, we
can get into the market more efficiently.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in  Singapore  at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  