-- Junk-Debt ETFs Set Markets ‘Abuzz’ After Record Trades
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-05-17T23:21:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/state-street-s-junk-etf-sees-biggest-redemptions-since-07.html
The largest trades on record in
shares of two exchange-traded funds that invest in junk debt are
attracting attention to the four-year-old market that allows
anyone from banks to retirees fast and discreet access to
speculative-grade bonds and loans.  The transactions were completed hours before JPMorgan Chase
& Co. disclosed $2 billion of trading losses tied to  credit
derivatives , an announcement that has heightened awareness of
big trades in debt markets.  Shares of an Invesco Ltd. ETF that invests in leveraged
loans had a record one-day inflow on May 10 that boosted its
shares outstanding by 25 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The same day, an investor used  State Street Corp. (STT) ’s
ETF of junk bonds to anonymously obtain as much as $780 million
of the debt by swapping shares of the fund.  “Markets are abuzz” over the State Street ETF trade that
allowed an unidentified investor to avoid moving prices in the
privately negotiated debt market, New York-based CreditSights
Inc. analysts  Chris Taggert  and Nathan Wenger wrote in a report
yesterday.  Investors including TF Market Advisors and Pacific Asset
Management speculate that the two trades last week are related.  JPMorgan, which said its losses stemmed from trades done by
its chief investment office in  London , wasn’t involved in the
transactions, according to a person familiar with the bank’s
positions, who asked not to be identified because the lender’s
trades are private.  Brian Marchiony , a spokesman for  New York- 
based JPMorgan, declined to comment.  Cantor Brokers Trade  “This is atypical,” said Brian Robertson, a managing
director at Pacific Asset Management, the  Newport Beach ,
California-based affiliate of Pacific Life Insurance Co. that
oversees about $3 billion. “There appears to be a correlation
given that two of the largest trades happened within 24 hours.”  A May 10 trade brokered by Cantor Fitzgerald LP at 2:42
p.m. in New York created about 4.5 million new shares in the
 PowerShares Senior Loan Portfolio (BKLN) , Bloomberg data show. The
trade, which fueled the highest daily volume for the 14-month-
old $565.5 million fund, was valued at about $110.3 million.  Earlier that day, an investor exchanged as much as 19.7
million shares in the  SPDR Barclays Capital High Yield Bond ETF (JNK) 
for the equivalent of about $779.3 million in bonds, Bloomberg
data show. The redemption, the biggest since the $11.2 billion
fund was started four years ago, came after the investor had
accumulated shares over several weeks, according to  Knight
Capital  Group Inc., which brokered the trade.  Betting Without Owning  “He used the ETF to get his exposure initially; he figured
it was an easier way to maintain his anonymity,” Eric Lichtenstein, the global head of ETF trading at  Jersey City , New
Jersey-based Knight Capital, said in a May 14 telephone
interview. “It was a unique approach. This was his plan going
into it.”  ETFs typically allow individual investors to speculate on
securities without directly owning them. Unlike mutual funds,
whose shares are priced once daily, ETFs are listed on exchanges
and are bought and sold like stocks.  The funds generally don’t buy securities directly when they
receive inflows or sell them to meet outflow requests. Instead,
an authorized participant receives cash from investors and uses
it to buy securities in exchange for fund shares. With
redemption requests, the approved participant returns shares to
an ETF’s manager and receives securities.  Junk bonds  and loans are ranked below Baa3 at Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  Junk Gains  U.S. speculative-grade bonds and leveraged loans both
gained about 0.1 percent on the day of the trades, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data and the S&P/LSTA U.S.
Leveraged Loan 100 Index.  After the close of securities exchanges that day, JPMorgan
disclosed the trading loss in credit derivatives positions that
has since roiled debt markets.  The investment in State Street’s fund, which tracks the
Barclays Capital High Yield Very Liquid Bond Index, may mark a
new way for investors to gain control over a large group of
bonds without tipping off other investors. It was likely related
to the move in the leveraged-loan fund, said Peter Tchir,
founder of New York-based hedge fund TF Market Advisors.  “It’s too coincidental to have these two unprecedented
moves going in the opposite direction,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in  New York  at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  