-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Angola (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-05-17T15:45:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-angola-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the International Monetary Fund visit to  Angola :  Statement at the Conclusion of the 2012 Article IV Consultation
and First Post-Program Monitoring in Angola  A staff team from the International Monetary Fund (IMF), led by
Mr. Mauro Mecagni, visited Luanda from May 2 to May 17, 2012 to
conduct the 2012 Article IV Consultation and First Post-Program
Monitoring Mission. During its stay, the mission met with Ministers
and other senior government officials[1], and representatives of
the banking, business, diplomatic, and academic communities.
The mission also had the opportunity to visit the provinces of
Kwanza Norte and Malange.  At the end of the mission, Mr. Mecagni issued the following
statement:  The Angolan authorities’ stabilization program supported by the
2009-2012 Stand-By Arrangement achieved its key objectives.
Three years after the abrupt decline in world oil prices that
severely affected its economy, Angola has attained: an improved
fiscal position, a more comfortable level of international reserves,
a stable  exchange rate , and lower inflation. Domestic arrears have
been settled. Significant progress has also been made toward improving
fiscal transparency and accountability.  “Macroeconomic performance in 2011 was affected by oil production
problems.  Robust non-oil growth compensated for the oil sector decline,
resulting in an overall real growth rate of about 4 percent. Inflation
continued its gradual decline, to about 11 percent at the end of the year.
The overall fiscal surplus increased to about 10 percent of GDP, in part
helped by high oil prices. International reserves came to exceed US$27
billion by the end of the year, a level equivalent of 6 months of
2012 imports.  The pace of economic activity is expected to pick up in 2012, as oil
production rebounds. Growth is projected to accelerate to about 8
percent. Economic activity in several sectors is benefitting from a
scaling-up of public investment programs and from the settlement of past
government arrears. Agricultural output growth is, however, being
affected by an ongoing drought. On the policy front, the authorities
are working to (i) strengthen the institutional setting for fiscal
policies and incorporate the quasi-fiscal operations previously
conducted by the state-oil company into the budget; (ii) make further
progress in explaining the large cumulative residual in the fiscal
accounts for 2007-2010; and (iii) modernize the framework for monetary
policy and financial sector stability.  Economic prospects over the next few years remain positive given
current projections for  oil prices  and the strong reform momentum
envisaged in the authorities’ medium-term plans. Policymakers in Angola
are appropriately focusing on three key issues:  The economy of Angola is subject to uncertainty stemming from oil
prices, oil production, and the still evolving institutional setting.
These sources of volatility affect budget implementation, and can
amplify the negative effects of stops and starts in public investment
on the economy. To address this issue, the authorities are strengthening
fiscal mechanisms to sustain the hard-won gains in macroeconomic
stability and support the implementation of their ambitious development
plans.  The new foreign exchange law for  oil companies  will involve the shift
of a large share of their financial transactions from offshore to
domestic banks. This is expected to increase the scope for domestic
financial intermediation and serve as a channel to promote increased
competition and financial innovation. However, it may also result in a
rapid expansion of banks’ balance sheets. In order for the process of
financial deepening to be sustainable, a significant strengthening of
prudential supervision is advisable prior to the gradual implementation
of the law.  Building on existing efforts, economic policies need to continue
enabling the structural transformation and diversification of the
economy. To unlock Angola’s vast economic potential and build momentum
for inclusive growth, the authorities are encouraged to pursue policies
that will bring about (i) further improvements in human and physical
capital, by continuing to rebalance budget allocations toward social
program and infrastructure investment; (ii) a continued decline in
inflation; and (iii) a decisive improvement in the business environment
and lower production and distribution costs, to enable a greater
private sector contribution to economic development.  Over the next few years, the authorities will need to address these
issues against a global backdrop that is improving but where downside
risks remain elevated. Several advanced economies are experiencing
lower growth as a result of fiscal consolidation and bank deleveraging.
These developments could indirectly affect Angola through lower export
demand and increased investor risk aversion. In this context, the
Angolan authorities recognize the need to balance a judicious scaling-up
of public investment against the advisable accumulation of additional
fiscal and reserves buffers.  The IMF team takes this opportunity to thank the Angolan authorities
for the excellent cooperation extended throughout the mission.  SOURCE:  International Monetary Fund  