-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Belarus (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-05-17T14:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-belarus-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the  International Monetary Fund  visit to Belarus:  IMF Executive Board Concludes 2012 Article IV Consultation and
the Second Post-Program Monitoring Discussions with Belarus  On May 4, 2012, the Executive Board of the International Monetary
Fund (IMF) concluded the Article IV consultation and second
Post-Program Monitoring discussions with Belarus.  Background
The last year was marked by a severe balance of payments crisis.
Unsustainable policies in late 2010 and the first quarter of 2011
pushed the economy into an inflation-depreciation spiral, with the
12-month inflation rate accelerating to 109 percent. Despite the
slowdown of economic activity in the second half of 2011, growth
remained robust at 5.3 percent.  Since mid-2011 the authorities have been implementing stabilization
measures. The National Bank of the Republic of Belarus has discontinued
the practice of providing liquidity at non-market terms in June 2011
and gradually increased policy interest rates in the second half of
the year. The authorities unified the exchange rate and introduced a
flexible exchange rate regime in October 2011. The general government
fiscal balance showed a surplus of 3 percent of GDP for the year.  These policies have restored foreign exchange markets, reduced
inflation(which has fallen to below 2 percent per month in the
first quarter of 2012) and improved the current account deficit.
Recently signed oil and gas agreements with  Russia  have led to a
significant improvement in terms of trade. Official reserves have
risen to a level covering 2 months of imports of goods and services
following substantial privatization proceeds, two tranches of a
EurAsEC Anti-Crisis Fund loan and a loan from Sberbank.  The financial system has weathered the 2011 crisis and banks’
capital has been replenished with general budget resources.
In 2011, bank recapitalization expenditure amounted to 5 percent
of GDP. System-wide non-performing loans increased modestly to
slightly over 4 percent at the end of 2011, but are expected to
increase further as the economy slows down. Continued deterioration
in asset quality would put pressure on banks’ capital and could
call for new recapitalizations.
The authorities have announced their intention to reduce inflation
and lower the current account deficit and to raise the level of
reserves and adjusted policy plans by curtailing plans for lending
under government programs and adopting a balanced budget for 2012.
However, they also announced a 5-5.5 percent GDP growth target and
stated their intent to increase dollar wages significantly.
Structural reforms have been slow, with occasional reversals.  Banking sector reform has been progressing slowly, and little has
been done to harden state-owned enterprises’ (SOEs) budget
constraints. Price liberalization was partially reversed in 2011.  Executive Board Assessment
Executive Directors welcomed the Belarusian economy’s emergence from
the 2011 crisis owing to the authorities’ commendable adjustment
policies in the second half of the year, including  exchange rate 
unification, introduction of a flexible exchange rate, monetary
policy tightening, and expenditure and wage restraint. These policies
have restored foreign exchange markets, reduced inflation and the
current account deficit, and helped increase reserves. Given
substantial remaining vulnerabilities and risks, Directors strongly
encouraged the authorities to remain firmly focused on consolidating
domestic and external stability and to pursue structural reforms.  Directors stressed the importance of ensuring consistency between the
authorities’ policy goals. They noted that pursuing high growth and
wage targets could re-ignite the inflation-depreciation spiral and
imperil medium-term fiscal and debt sustainability. They called for
continued fiscal restraint and for a disciplined wage policy in the
public sector, including SOEs. Keeping a tight monetary policy stance
would also be important to keep inflation in check. It should be
supported by continued exchange rate flexibility and a strong reserve
buffer to insulate the economy from external shocks. In this
connection, progress toward implementing the prerequisites for
inflation targeting would boost the credibility of monetary and
exchange rate policies.  Directors emphasized the need to enhance fiscal discipline,
noting that limiting quasi-fiscal operations and rationalizing
 government spending  would improve efficiency and reduce the debt
level over the medium term. They encouraged the authorities to
accelerate plans to reduce general subsidies and improve targeted
social assistance and implement civil service and pension reforms.  Directors underscored the need for strong and carefully sequenced
structural reforms to improve productivity and growth prospects
and reduce vulnerabilities over the medium term. They highlighted
the importance of reducing the government’s direct control of the
economy, noting that price liberalization, enterprise reform, and
privatization would improve  resource allocation  and strengthen market
incentives. In the financial sector, a greater role for private banks
would increase efficiency. Relieving state-owned banks of the
obligation to undertake directed lending once the  Development Bank 
becomes fully operational, while ensuring that the bank is run on
prudent and transparent principles, would be important. Directors
also called for further improvements to the business and investment
climate.  Directors noted the authorities’ interest in a Fund-supported
arrangement. They stressed that a firm commitment by policymakers
at the highest level to a strong and consistent stabilization
and reform strategy would be essential.  1 Under Article IV of the IMF’s Articles of Agreement, the IMF
holds bilateral discussions with members, usually every year.
A staff team visits the country, collects economic and financial
information, and discusses with officials the country’s economic
developments and policies. On return to headquarters, the staff
prepares a report, which forms the basis for discussion by the
Executive Board. At the conclusion of the discussion, the Managing
Director, as Chairman of the Board, summarizes the views of
Executive Directors, and this summary is transmitted to the
country’s authorities. An explanation of any qualifiers used in
summings up can be found here:
 http://www.imf.org/external/np/sec/misc/qualifiers.htm .  SOURCE: International Monetary Fund 