-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Montenegro (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-05-17T10:48:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-montenegro-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the  International Monetary Fund  visit to Montenegro:  On May 11, 2012, the Executive Board of the International Monetary
Fund (IMF) concluded the Article IV consultation with Montenegro.  Background  Three years after the sudden end of Montenegro’s boom, there has been
considerable progress toward recovery. Strong growth in tourism supported
real GDP growth of 2½ percent in 2011, bringing output nearly back to
its pre-crisis level in 2008. The recovery is at risk of stalling,
however, with the projected downturn in the euro area likely to weigh
on growth in 2012. The debt overhang continues to linger, moreover,
with domestic liquidity shortages a growing constraint. High-frequency
economic indicators depict a weakening of activity in late 2011 and
early 2012.  In addition, the policy buffers that have supported growth in recent
years have been largely depleted. Public debt has risen sharply since
2007, increasing from 28 to 47 percent of GDP at the end of 2011, as
fiscal surpluses quickly turned into large deficits following the
collapse of the boom.  Fiscal imbalances have proved difficult to rein in, reflecting a large
fall in revenue after the collapse of the boom, rising pension
expenditures, and costs stemming from public support for struggling
enterprises. However, and notwithstanding an increase in the headline
deficit, there was some progress toward fiscal consolidation in 2011.
Although the headline deficit rose to 6.3 percent of GDP, this partly
reflected payment of called loan guarantees that had been extended in
2009-10 but did not have an impact on demand in 2011. Adjusting for
these payments, the fiscal stance tightened by 0.7 percent of GDP.
The authorities aim for further consolidation this year and over the
medium term, and are in the process of identifying needed measures to
achieve this adjustment.  After three years of rapid bank deleveraging, there are indications
that conditions are stabilizing. The gradual return of deposits to the
banking system continued in 2011, and banks took steps to off-load
problem loans and re-align their lending with their domestic deposit base.
However, the system remains burdened by high non-performing
loans--notwithstanding their recent sharp decline--and is lagging in
provisioning. New bank lending remains limited, reflecting the existing
debt overhang and the significant uncertainty over the economic outlook.  Executive Board Assessment  Executive Directors commended the authorities’ efforts to stabilize the
economy, and welcomed the progress made since the financial crisis.
With the recovery now at risk of stalling, Directors called for intensified
efforts to address large fiscal and external imbalances, further
enhance financial sector stability, and improve competitiveness.  Directors recognized the sizable public expenditure adjustment over the
past few years, but underscored the need for further highquality deficit
reducing measures to put public debt on a declining trajectory. While
fiscal consolidation will need to rely on both revenue and expenditure
measures, the more sizable adjustment should come from further spending
cuts. Directors saw the 2012 supplementary budget, adopted by the cabinet,
as a step in the right direction. Going forward, Directors recommended
further reducing personnel and entitlement spending. They underscored the
importance of ending fiscal and quasi-fiscal support to the metals sector
and assessing its viability. Directors stressed that revenue measures
should focus on improving tax administration, but saw some scope to raise
tax rates that are below regional levels. Some Directors cautioned that
tax rate increases should be considered only after tax administration is
strengthened, given their potential impact on competitiveness.  Directors commended the authorities’ efforts to stabilize the financial
sector, and to improve the framework for crisis preparedness and banking
resolution. Given remaining vulnerabilities, they stressed the need to
further strengthen supervision and regulation, including the
macroprudential framework. They underlined the need to enforce  capital
requirements  and improve asset quality, while monitoring liquidity
closely and maintaining high prudential buffers.  Directors welcomed progress in advancing structural reforms, and called
on the authorities to accelerate efforts to enhance competitiveness and
attract foreign investment. In particular, they underscored the need to
further improve the business environment and increase labor market
flexibility. Directors also saw merit in reforms to ensure that social
protection schemes target the neediest and do not impede labor market
participation.  Directors called for continued efforts to address shortcomings in
economic statistics which hamper policy design and evaluation.  SOURCE: International Monetary Fund 