-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Cameroon (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-05-17T15:17:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-cameroon-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the  International Monetary Fund  visit to Cameroon:  An International Monetary Fund (IMF) mission, led by
Mr. Mario de Zamaróczy, visited Cameroon during May 2-16, 2011
to conduct the 2012 Article IV Consultation. The mission met with
Prime Minister Philémon Yang, Minister Secretary General at the
Presidency Ferdinand Ngoh Ngoh, Minister of Finance Alamine Ousmane Mey,
Minister of Economy, Planning, and Territorial Development
Emmanuel Nganou Djoumessi, several other ministers, the National
Director of the Bank of Central African States (BEAC), other senior
officials, and representatives of the private sector, labor unions,
civil society organizations, and development partners. The discussions
focused on recent economic and financial developments, the execution
of the 2012 budget, and the economic outlook for 2012 and beyond.
At the end of the mission, Mr. de Zamaróczy issued the following
statement:  The recovery of the Cameroonian economy has continued following the
2008-09 global crisis, with economic growth estimated at 4.2 percent
in 2011, and inflation contained below 3 percent. Economic prospects
remain favorable and growth is projected to reach 4.7 percent in
2012, mainly on account of a rebound in oil production and exports,
an increase in public investment on large infrastructure projects,
and ongoing initiatives to improve productivity in agriculture.
Inflation is expected to remain subdued in 2012, mainly because of
efforts to increase  food supply  and continuing government subsidies
on fuel and some utilities.  During 2011, oil revenue was higher than expected, past payment
obligations were cleared, and more flexibility was achieved in cash
flow management through the issuance of securities. However, current
expenditure exceeded budgetary allocations and new unsettled payment
obligations were accumulated. Efforts were made to strengthen tax and
customs administration, improve public expenditure management, and
deepen the dialogue with the private sector through the Cameroon
Business Forum.  The 2012 budget is expected to benefit from windfall oil revenue
generated by current high international prices. However, the execution
of the budget could be hampered by the carryover of unsettled payment
obligations and the higher-than-budgeted cost of fuel subsidies. In
addition, it is uncertain whether the full amount of the planned bond
issuance will be absorbed by the domestic and regional financial market.
The budget could also come under pressure from contingent liabilities
from the restructuring of distressed banks and from assistance to
loss-making public enterprises. To ensure that budget execution will
not lead to further accumulation of domestic arrears, the mission
recommended to strengthen cash flow management and to reprioritize
expenditures, taking into account the financing that may realistically
be mobilized.  To preserve fiscal and debt sustainability over the medium term, it is
important to reassess the fuel subsidy policy. A progressive elimination
of the fuel subsidy could be accompanied by the setting up of a targeted
social safety net to protect the most vulnerable segments of the
population. The authorities should improve spending commitment controls
to prevent further accumulation of domestic arrears and look for
concessional resources to finance public investment, whenever possible.
It is necessary to start rebuilding fiscal buffers. The mission supported
the authorities’ decision to assess contingent liabilities fully and
strengthen the monitoring of the performance of public enterprises.  The mission urged the authorities to conclude the resolution process
of distressed banks swiftly to preserve financial stability and minimize
costs to the public finances. It emphasized the need to engage the
Central African Economic and Monetary Community (CAEMC) authorities to
enhance the regional supervisory body’s resources and to further define
rules and decision mechanisms for the treatment of troubled banks. The
mission also encouraged the authorities to speed up the implementation
of reforms to remove obstacles to accessing bank credit.  To unlock Cameroon’s growth potential, the mission agreed with the
authorities that it is critical to reduce the constraints to higher
and more inclusive growth by continuing to address infrastructural
bottlenecks, raise the quality and efficiency of public spending,
and improve the business climate and governance. It is also important
to accelerate regional integration. The mission was encouraged by the
authorities’ commitment to take action to help achieve these objectives.   “The IMF’s Executive Board is expected to examine the report on the
2012 Article IV Consultation with Cameroon in July 2012. The mission
would like to thank the authorities for their warm hospitality,
excellent cooperation, and constructive dialogue.  SOURCE: International Monetary Fund 