-- Stockton Blunders on Books Helped Propel City to Crisis
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-05-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/stockton-blunders-on-books-helped-propel-city-to-crisis.html
Stockton, the  California  city trying
to stave off bankruptcy, didn’t reconcile its main checking
account each month and left millions of dollars in library fees
uncollected, fueling a fiscal crisis as managers left.  The fiscal 2010 accounting blunders, outlined in a February
2011 report to the City Council, offer a glimpse into how
municipal leaders lost financial control, prompting a state
investigation. The report was prepared by an outside auditor.  “In order to run a city, business or anything, you have to
understand your financial position,” said Linda Biek, director
of governmental, international and professional relationships at
the National Association of State Boards of Accountancy.  The community of about 292,000 residents 80 miles (130
kilometers) east of  San Francisco  is talking with creditors to
avoid becoming the largest U.S. city to enter bankruptcy after
mounting retiree health-care costs, the recession and accounting
errors left it almost insolvent. The state said last month it
would investigate Stockton’s financial practices and reporting.  “If the organization lacks internal control, there is more
opportunity for things to go wrong,” Biek said by telephone
from Nashville,  Tennessee . “It’s possible that lack of internal
control could allow for corruption or fraud. It’s also possible
the money could be going through the wrong accounts.”  Municipal Company  If the city decides to abandon talks and seek court
protection, it would join  Central Falls ,  Rhode Island , which
entered Chapter 9 bankruptcy in August after failing to win
union concessions, and Jefferson County,  Alabama , which became
the biggest municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history in November,
with $4.2 billion in debt. Vallejo, California, entered Chapter
9 in 2008, emerging from the process last year.  In a May 15 council meeting, City Manager Bob Deis
presented three options for closing a $26 million budget gap. He
listed court protection, making massive departmental cuts or
obtaining concessions through negotiations with creditors.  Stockton’s council agreed to begin talks with creditors in
a Feb. 28 meeting, when it also decided to default on $2 million
in bond payments and to bring in an independent investigator to
probe the mishandling of its finances.  At that meeting, Deis said departments failed to chase down
payments owed on municipal bills.  At the same time, “there’s just been huge turnover and
people walk out the door and there’s no follow-up, there’s no
transition,” Deis said. “We’ve never seen anything like
this.”  Turnover of Officials  Mark Moses, a former chief financial officer, retired in
July 2010 after six years. Kathleen VonAchen, a finance officer
who had reported to Moses, left in March 2011 after three years.
Susan Mayer, who became the city’s chief financial officer in
January 2011 after helping shepherd Vallejo through its
bankruptcy, left in February, a week before Deis announced he
wanted Stockton to pursue talks with creditors under a new state
law aimed at discouraging municipal bankruptcy.  Deis in August announced that he planned to retire, one
year after he took the post. He later decided to stay on the
job. His predecessor, J. Gordon Palmer Jr., retired in 2009.  A fiscal 2010 report prepared by Macias Gini & O’Connell
LLP, a Sacramento-based accounting firm that had served as the
city’s outside auditor for the decade that ended that year,
detailed weaknesses in the city’s bookkeeping.  Uncollected Fees  The city left about $3.4 million in library fees
uncollected, according to the audit.  “The reconciliation of the city’s main checking account
was not being performed monthly on a timely basis, resulting in
unexplained and unidentified differences,” according to the
report. As of June 30, 2010, about $533,000 fell into that
category, the auditors said.  “It’s a standard internal control to reconcile your bank
accounts to make sure that they agree with your financial
statements,”  Mike Taylor , the city auditor, said by telephone.
His job doesn’t include preparing financial audits.  The report also determined that the city had received a
loan in 2002 that was counted as revenue instead of as a long-
term liability. The report labeled the discrepancy as a sign of
“material weakness,” or a deficiency in internal controls that
raised the chance that financial misstatements could occur.  “The fact that there are material weaknesses and
significant deficiencies, that would be a bit disconcerting to
me, if I were a taxpayer,” said Biek, of the accountancy group.
If the financial statements aren’t right, “then the decisions
that are made may not be in the best interest of the citizens.”  Deep Problems  In a February memo to the council, Deis said that he didn’t
think “it was clear just how problematic these areas were to
the underlying financial condition of the city.”  “Ordinary and customary reconciliations between supporting
third-party or subsidiary databases and the city’s financial
books have simply not been performed by staff for many years,”
Deis wrote. “Systems are out of balance and some balances
reported in the city’s financial statements are unsupportable.”  He also suggested the errors may have been intentional.  “There may have existed in certain past fiscal years non-
standard financial practices engaged in, either intentionally or
negligently, by city administrators and/or contractors that were
not disclosed to the council and that have also contributed to
the city’s current financial situation,” Deis said in the memo.  In a May 2011 audit committee meeting on the fiscal 2010
report, then-CFO Mayer said the city workforce was inadequate.  Targeting Risk  “I can’t tell you that we have sufficient staff to provide
the best control to meet our fiduciary responsibilities,” Mayer
said, according to a recording of the session. “We’re going to
try to prioritize the areas of highest risk and best leverage
the resources that we do have.”  State Controller John Chiang in April sent a letter to Deis
saying he planned to investigate the city’s financial practices.  Stockton’s ability to provide reliable and accurate
financial data in required reports “is questionable,” Chiang
wrote. He said the city hadn’t submitted a financial-transaction
report for fiscal 2011 that was due in October.  “We’re in Stockton right now,” Chiang said yesterday in
an interview with Mark Crumpton on Bloomberg Television’s
“Bottom Line” show. “It’s early in the audit, so I have no
findings to disclose.”  It’s the fourth municipal audit the controller has started,
adding Stockton to reviews of Bell,  Hercules  and Montebello,
Jacob Roper, a Chiang spokesman, said May 10 by e-mail.  Ensure ‘Sound Finances’  “We just want to make sure that we have sound finances in
Stockton and every other municipality,” Chiang said. “We’re
going to have to make sure that we have better disclosure.”  Chiang is backing state legislation to expand his
investigative powers involving fiscally distressed local
governments. He also supports a bill that would let his office
set accounting guidelines and standards for city governments.  Macias, the accounting firm that audited Stockton, came
under scrutiny in  San Diego  last year.  “It is concerning that Macias Gini & O’Connell LLP, the
firm which is contracted to conduct the outside audit of the
city’s annual financial statements, was recently reported to
have missed two major misuses of taxpayer dollars in the last
six years,” San Diego Councilman Carl DeMaio said in a July
2011 memo to council President Pro Tem Kevin Faulconer.  The firm “failed to find accounting discrepancies going
back to 2005” in their audits of San Diego Medical Services,
DeMaio said in the note. Macias also failed to uncover $872,000
in “unauthorized bonuses” that the Southeastern Economic
Development Corp.’s former president gave herself and 15
employees from 2003 to 2008, he said.  Audit Limits  “There is some risk that you can perform an audit totally
in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, and
that there is a risk that a material exception, material error
could exist and not be disclosed during that audit,” James
Godsey, a Macias partner, told the San Diego council’s audit
committee in a September meeting about the firm’s work.  What an audit should reasonably be expected to catch “can
be a difficult question to answer,” San Diego’s independent
budget analyst said in a September report. Macias “has
performed well for the city to date,” the official said.  Stockton’s outside auditor missed mistakes that should have
been caught, Deis said at a February council meeting.  “They’re material enough to our situation that I would
have hoped they would have popped up and the red lights would
have come on,” Deis said.  Stockton officials have been focusing on the mediation, the
controller’s probe as well as an annual audit and financial
report, in addition to developing the fiscal 2013 budget, Connie
Cochran, a city spokeswoman said by e-mail. She was responding
to a question on whether an independent investigation was under
way on the causes of its distress.  “We are focused on addressing our fiscal crisis and moving
forward,” Cochran said. “Given our competing priorities, the
investigation issue will be addressed in due course.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman in  New York  at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 