-- Stopping Fake Drugs From Pakistan Is Too Late for Victims
-- B y   F a r h a n   S h a r i f   a n d   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 2012-05-17T22:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/stopping-fake-drugs-from-pakistan-is-too-late-for-victims.html
In  Pakistan ’s biggest market for
wholesale medicines, it pays to be observant.  More than 2,500 stalls wedged along dirt lanes in Karachi’s
busiest trading district offer everything from  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s
cholesterol pill Lipitor to  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s painkiller
Panadol. Closer study of the remedies lining rickety shelves
reveals the source of an unfolding medical crisis: Lipitor sold
in obsolete packaging, Panadol packets missing tell-tale ribbing,
and allergy medicine Zyrtec mislabeled as Zytrec.  Now, the free flow of  fake medications  channeled through
the market for decades may soon be slowed. Lawmakers are poised
to pass legislation in June creating an agency to quash the
trade after 107 heart patients were  killed  this year by pills
tainted with lethal amounts of an anti-malarial agent. That may
help break the ring of counterfeiters in Pakistan, part of a
wider network supplying what the World Health Organization
estimates is a $431 billion global market for spurious drugs.  “The issue is serious, demanding serious steps,” said
Salman Burney, chief executive of  GlaxoSmithKline Pakistan Ltd. (GLAXO) 
in Karachi. “Better regulation will generate more investment in
the pharmaceutical industry, which will mean better quality
medicines.”  The problem spans national borders. Pakistan was one of the
 10 largest sources  of  counterfeit goods  seized in the U.S. last
year, U.S. Customs and  Border Protection  said in January.
Medicines accounted for 85 percent of the value of the Pakistani
items obtained.  At least 30 percent of medicines bought in the country are
either  counterfeits  or substandard, said Kulsoom Parveen, a
lawmaker who chairs a Senate health committee. Pharmacies
nationwide sell drugs without a doctor’s prescription, enabling
the treatments to be taken without medical supervision.  ’Exploiting Weaknesses’  Pakistan has 4,000 registered pharmacists and 25 times more
merchants dispensing medicines illegally, the Pakistan
Pharmacists Association said.  It’s no coincidence that fake and substandard drugs are
flourishing in Pakistan, said Laurie Garrett, senior fellow for
global health at the  Council on Foreign Relations . The New York-
based think-tank prepared six recommendations to fight the drug-
safety crisis for consideration by the Group of Eight summit at
Camp David,  Maryland , today and tomorrow.  “Individuals that are exploiting weaknesses in global drug
safety and regulation will base themselves in places where they
know the system is fragile or nonexistent,” Garrett said in a
telephone interview. “Pakistan is really struggling to keep its
entire public health infrastructure alive.”  Damaging Brands  Protecting product integrity would also benefit makers of
brand-name medicines. Pharmaceutical sales in Pakistan, with a
population of 196 million, total $2 billion annually, compared
with $12.4 billion in neighboring  India , with 1.2 billion people.  GlaxoSmithKline Pakistan, based in Karachi, made 1.14
billion Pakistani rupees ($12 million) in profit on sales of
21.75 billion rupees last year. In India, Mumbai-based
 GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (GLXO)  had net income of 6.3
billion Indian rupees ($118 million) and revenue of 23.9 billion
rupees.  Prime Minister Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani’s government hasn’t
had a federal health minister or a central drug regulatory
agency since powers were handed to the country’s four provinces
last year. A new bill, to be voted on by Pakistan’s senate next
month, will strive to fill the void.  “We need to regulate -- from manufacturing to the
prescription -- leaving nothing in between,” lawmaker Parveen
said in an interview from Quetta. “The drug regulatory agency
will look at all three problems: fakes, substandard, and
smuggled medicines.”  Chronic Diseases  The need for effective drug treatments is increasing in
Pakistan, where about half of adults older than 50 years suffer
 high blood pressure , according to the WHO. The country had 6.3
million adults with Type-2 diabetes last year, the International
Diabetes Federation estimated. By 2030, the tally will be 11.4
million, the  10th-highest  tally worldwide, the Brussels-based
group predicts.  Counterfeit medicines don’t just risk lacking their
purported active ingredients. Some are potentially deadly --
laced with substances that include rat poison, brick dust and
paint, said Scott Davis, a former  U.S. customs  official who
heads security in Asia-Pacific for Pfizer in  Singapore .  Less than 1 percent of medicines in developed markets and
as much as  30 percent  or more in  developing countries  are fake,
the Geneva-based WHO estimates. China and India are probably the
biggest suppliers of the counterfeits, which cause  700,000 
deaths a year among malaria and tuberculosis sufferers alone,
according to the Washington-based International Policy Network.  ‘High Return’  To counter the proliferation of counterfeits, drugmakers
like Pfizer constantly change product packaging, closely monitor
supply chains, and train staff to spot fakes, said Ahmer Ashraf,
a spokesman for Pfizer Pakistan. That adds to costs, he said.  “Criminals are attracted to the fake drugs business
because it’s a low-risk, high-return area,” said Akbar Baloch,
a director at the Federal Investigation Agency in Karachi. “If
we catch someone with heroin, he may get the death sentence,
while fake pharmaceuticals may get him a few years of prison or
he may get away with just a fine.”  Regulatory loopholes make it “very easy for unscrupulous
individuals or organized crime to dive right in and exploit the
situation,” Garrett at the Council on Foreign Relations said.
“Even if they eventually get caught, they will have made a lot
of money before the drug gets pulled off the market -- and then
they just disappear.”  Hastening Death  Drug inspector Saleem Laghari charged three sanitation
workers in 2006 for making and supplying fake vials of Clexane,
an anti-clotting medicine sold by Paris-based  Sanofi. (SAN)  The trio
was buying empty containers from the National Institute of
Cardiovascular Diseases where they worked, filling them with
other liquids and selling them to pharmacies near hospitals for
200 rupees apiece. Vials of the genuine drug go for 800 rupees.  “Such trade is putting an ailing population to near
death,” Laghari said.  Courts hearing pharmaceutical industry-related crimes
should have dedicated police possessing the right to initiate
raids, as well as the ability to impose death penalties and
confiscate assets, said Saathi Ishaque, chairman of the Court of
Drugs for Sindh province in Karachi. Those convicted now face as
many as 10 years imprisonment and as much as 100,000 rupees
($1,100) in fines.  “The new drug regulatory authority will only be able to
help if it is made up of independent people appointed on merit -
- not people with political backing,” said Samrina Hashmi,
provincial head of Pakistan Medical Association, a doctors’
group. “These spurious and counterfeit medicines are the
biggest problem for our patients.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Farhan Sharif in Karachi, Pakistan at 
 Fsharif2@bloomberg.net ;
Khurrum Anis in Karachi, Pakistan at 
 Kkhan14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net . 