-- U.K. Climate Plan Set to Curb Impact of Oil Shocks, Report Shows
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-05-17T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/u-k-climate-plan-set-to-curb-impact-of-oil-shocks-report-shows.html
U.K. efforts to switch to low-carbon
power sources may lessen the negative impact of an oil-price
shock, a study found before the government publishes its plans
to attract investors in clean-energy generation.  The country’s proposed climate policies would reduce the
effect of jumps in energy prices on disposable  household income 
by half by 2050, research group Oxford Economics said today in a
government-commissioned report. They’d also mitigate the impact
on business investment, inflation and unemployment, it said.  Britain, seeking an 80 percent cut in greenhouse-gas levels
by 2050, will publish a draft energy bill next week setting out
reforms to the  electricity market  as it seeks funds to replace
aging power plants, upgrade grids and expand renewable energy.
Oil and gas price gains can push up consumer prices, squeezing
incomes while boosting costs for energy-intensive industries.  “The more we can shift to alternative fuels and use energy
efficiently, the more we can ensure that our economy does not
become hostage to far-flung events and to the volatility of
market forces,” Energy Secretary Ed Davey said in a statement
accompanying the report.  The political turmoil that spread through the Arab world
from late 2010 pushed up U.K. household bills by 20 percent last
year, Davey said. Oil rose to almost $150 a barrel in mid-2008
from about $20 in 2002 as growth in  emerging markets  drove up
demand, according to today’s report, which was commissioned by
the Department of Energy and Climate Change last year.  Oxford Economics was founded in 1981 as a venture with
Oxford University and provides independent analysis of global
economic, industry and business trends, according to its
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  