-- U.K. Lost $762 Million on Northern Rock Sale, U.K. Audit Says
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-05-17T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/u-k-lost-762-million-on-northern-rock-sale-u-k-audit-says.html
British taxpayers are expected to
book a loss of 480 million pounds ($762 million) on the sale of
 Northern Rock  Plc to  Virgin Money  Holdings U.K. Ltd., the
National Audit Office said.  The sale “at the earliest opportunity” was the best
option for the taxpayer to minimize the losses, the government-
spending watchdog said in a report published today. Making the
bank back into a customer-owned lender or selling the shares
would have made less money, it said.  Northern Rock was nationalized in February 2008 after the
Newcastle, England-based lender suffered the first run on a U.K.
bank in more than a century. In 2010, Northern Rock Plc, the
consumer bank, separated from Northern Rock Asset Management
Plc, which holds mortgages. Billionaire  Richard Branson ’s Virgin
Money agreed to buy Northern Rock Plc in November 2011 for 747
million pounds, marking the first sale of a British government
bank holding since the 2008 financial crisis.  U.K. Financial Investments, which manages Britain’s
holdings in banks, “handled the sale process well,” said the
report. “In final negotiations, UKFI improved the overall offer
from Virgin Money.”  UKFI expects the taxpayer to about break even on the 37
billion pounds of support supplied to both parts of the bank,
assuming gilt yields of about 4 percent, over about 10 to 15
years, said the report. The taxpayer would lose about 2 billion
pounds should the cost of funding rise to 6 percent, closer to
an amount demanded of a commercial organization, said the
report.  Taxpayer Stakes  The sale of Northern Rock Plc left the taxpayer with stakes
initially valued at more than 65.5 billion pounds in  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc . The U.K.
also holds the remainder of Northern Rock and Bradford &
Bingley.  The losses on the Northern Rock Plc sale include 248
million-pound reduction in book value the report said. Another
232 million-pound loss was posted at the sale, as Virgin paid
between 80 percent and 90 percent of the bank’s book value, the
National Audit Office said.  The U.K. Treasury didn’t do detailed due diligence on the
decision to split the bank into Northern Rock and NRAM, said the
report.  “The decision to split the bank was based on a business
plan prepared by Northern Rock management which events quickly
showed to have been optimistic,” the report said. “Our
analysis indicates that there remained little difference in
financial terms between splitting the bank and selling the
deposits.”  -- Editors: Jon Menon, Steve Bailey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  