-- U.S. Eases Ban on Myanmar Investments in Recognition of Changes
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-05-17T23:45:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/u-s-eases-ban-on-myanmar-investments-in-recognition-of-changes.html
The U.S. government loosened a ban on
American investments in Myanmar in the strongest acknowledgment
yet of the political and economic transformation put in motion
by a new government of former army generals.  Along with the easing of trade and investment restrictions,
President Barack Obamaannounced he’s nominating  Derek Mitchell 
as the first U.S. ambassador to Myanmar in 22 years.  “The  United States  remains concerned about Burma’s closed
political system, its treatment of minorities and detention of
political prisoners, and its relationship with  North Korea ,”
Obama said in a statement released by the White House yesterday.  In a sign that the administration is still treading with
caution, a ban remains on doing business with companies linked
to the military.  The Southeast Asian country, also known as Burma, is
shaking off a half century of isolation after April 1 elections,
the most inclusive since 1990, allowed the country’s leading
dissident, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, to take a seat in parliament.
She had spent 15 of the past 22 years under house arrest.  Myanmar President Thein Sein is courting investment from
 Japan  amid a shift toward democracy over the past year that’s
encouraged re-engagement with developed nations. General
Electric Co. is among companies expressing interest in Myanmar,
a nation of 64 million people.  Myanmar Official Visits  Secretary of State Hillary Clinton yesterday met with
Myanmar Foreign Minister U Wunna Maung Lwin, the first member of
the cabinet to be formally invited to visit  Washington  in
decades. In a speech, she urged American businesses to invest in
Myanmar responsibly.  “We’ll expect U.S. firms to conduct due diligence to avoid
any problems, including human rights abuses,” Clinton said,
according to a transcript of her remarks e-mailed by the U.S.
Department of State. “We expect our businesses to create a
grievance process that will be accessible to local
communities.”  Obama said there has been progress toward democracy,
including the release of “hundreds” of political prisoners,
pursuit of cease-fire talks with several armed ethnic groups,
and talks with  Burma ’s leading pro-democracy opposition party.  “Burma’s at the start of a long but promising path toward
democracy,” Tom Donilon, the White House National Security
Adviser, told reporters at a briefing. Burma will be discussed
by leaders attending the Group of Eight Summit meeting at Camp
David,  Maryland , beginning today, he said.  ‘First Step’  Suu Kyi said earlier this week that other nations shouldn’t
yet end sanctions against the regime. She said a suspension of
the penalties would be a “possible first step” to ensure the
government continues moving toward democratization.  Momentum has been building on both sides of the political
divide toward freeing up U.S. businesses from entering Myanmar,
touted by investors as the next Asian Tiger economy.  Republican Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona  has proposed
suspending U.S. sanctions, except for an arms embargo and
provisions targeted at individuals and entities in Myanmar that
impede the movement toward democracy.  Suu Kyi, speaking by video link to a conference on freedom
by the George W. Bush Presidential Center, warned her country
still has a long way to go.  “The democratization process is not irreversible,” she
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Washington at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  