-- U.S. Banks Sold More Swaps on European Debt as Risks Rose
-- B y   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n
-- 2012-05-18T15:30:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/u-s-banks-sold-more-swaps-on-european-debt-as-risks-rose.html
U.S. banks increased sales of
protection against credit losses to holders of Greek,
Portuguese, Irish, Spanish and  Italian debt  in the last quarter
of 2011 as the  European debt crisis  escalated.  Guarantees provided by U.S. lenders on government, bank and
corporate debt in those countries rose 10 percent from the
previous quarter to $567 billion, according to the most recent
data from the  Bank for International Settlements . Those
guarantees refer to credit-default swaps written on bonds.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., two of
the top CDS underwriters in the U.S., say they have bought more
protection than they sold, indicating they may benefit from
defaults in the region. That outcome is called into question by
JPMorgan’s $2 billion loss on similar derivatives, which shows
that risks don’t vanish when offsetting bets are taken, said
Craig Pirrong, a finance professor at the University of Houston.  “All these hedges trade one risk for another,” said
Pirrong, whose research focuses on derivatives markets. “The
banks say they’re flat on European risk, but that’s based on
aggregated positions. We don’t know how those will hold off if
the European crisis blows up.”  JPMorgan’s Chief  JPMorgan Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon 
said last week that the bank was trying to reposition a
portfolio of corporate  credit derivatives  and used a flawed
trading strategy. The lender, the largest in the U.S. by assets,
is believed to have sold protection on an index of corporate
debt and bought protection on the same index to hedge its
initial bet, according to market participants who asked not to
be identified because their trading strategies aren’t public.  The two bets moved in opposite directions this year,
causing losses and proving that even hedges that look perfect
can break down, Pirrong said.  JPMorgan said in a regulatory filing that it purchased $144
billion of CDS related to the five European countries as of the
end of the first quarter, while it sold $142 billion.  Goldman
Sachs (GS)  bought $175 billion of protection and sold $164 billion,
the firm said in its filing. Spokesmen for the two New York-
based companies declined to comment.  Bank of America Corp. ,
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  report only net CDS exposures.  The five banks together account for 96 percent of the
credit-derivatives market in the U.S., according to the Office
of the Comptroller of the Currency. JPMorgan has written a
quarter of the total. U.S. banks’ sales of CDS on five European
countries’ debt surged 30 percent during 2011 from $496 billion
at the end of the previous year, BIS data show.  Matched Protection  Not all protection sold by banks is matched exactly by
protection bought. CDS purchased and sold on Spanish sovereign
debt can have different expiration dates. Banks also can net a
swap on a Spanish bank with one on another lender. Even if those
two firms are in a similar condition at the time of the trades,
one could deteriorate faster, increasing the cost of CDS.  Some of the swaps sold by U.S. banks were bought by
European lenders trying to reduce exposure to the five so-called
peripheral countries. Since it’s considered insurance, a German
bank can subtract the value of the contracts it purchased on
Spanish debt from the total value of its holdings, with the
understanding that if  Spain  doesn’t make good on its payment,
the CDS underwriter will pay instead.  British, German and French banks’ loans to the five
countries were reduced by 5 percent in the fourth quarter to
$1.33 trillion, according to the  BIS data . That was a $73
million decrease compared with the $53 million increase in U.S.
banks’ CDS exposure to the periphery.  Spanish Debt  The cost of insuring Spanish sovereign debt increased to a
record 552 basis points yesterday, meaning it would cost 552,000
euros ($700,000) to insure 10 million euros of debt from default
for five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Contracts on  Italy ’s bonds climbed to a four-month high of 515
basis points. Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  “As the JPMorgan example showed, these are all relative-
value trades, and the legs might go in different directions,”
said Paul Rowady, a New York-based senior analyst at Tabb Group
LLC, a financial-markets research and advisory firm. “It’s not
surprising that these relations are being tested today because
of the dislocation in credit markets.”  JPMorgan and other banks rely on proprietary models to
gauge the risks of such correlations in their derivatives
positions. Dimon said last week that some of those models had
proven wrong.  Bank Losses  More than half of the CDS related to Spain, Italy and
 Portugal  were to protect defaults by companies in those
countries, not the government, according to data compiled by the
Depository Trust and Clearing Corp., which runs a central
registry for over-the-counter derivatives. About a quarter of
the total in each country was protection on bank debt.  As lenders in the five countries face mounting losses and
funding strains, it’s impossible to model accurately how the
risk on different institutions will change, Rowady said.
Government and central bank interventions in markets can also
upset correlations in those models, he said.  Last week, Spain’s government took control of  Bankia SA (BKIA) ,
the country’s third-largest lender, and asked banks to increase
provisions for souring real estate loans. Losses of Spanish
banks could top 380 billion euros, according to the Centre for
European Policy Studies. Moody’s Investors Service downgraded
the credit ratings of 16 Spanish banks yesterday and 26 Italian
lenders earlier this week.  Counterparty Failure  More Spanish loans soured in March, fueling concern that
the government’s focus on making banks clean up real estate was
too narrow as the economy entered a second recession. Bad loans
as a proportion of total lending jumped to 8.37 percent in
March, the highest since August 1994, from 8.30 percent in
February, the Bank of Spain reported today.  Counterparty failure is another risk for financial
companies selling insurance on the debt of the five counties.
When a swap is triggered by default, a bank could find that a
client who sold the protection can’t pay. The firm still has to
make good on its promise to pay whoever bought protection.  Lenders try to mitigate this risk by asking for collateral
from their counterparties as the value of the CDS or other
derivative changes.  Dexia SA (DEXB)  failed in October when the bank
faced 47 billion euros of such margin calls on  interest-rate
swaps  it sold. If Dexia hadn’t been bailed out by Belgium and
 France , it wouldn’t have been able to put up the collateral,
causing losses for its unidentified counterparties.  Collateral in Hand  U.S. banks didn’t suffer losses when swaps on Greek
sovereign debt were paid out in March because prices of CDS had
surged and collateral was collected in advance, according to
Francis Longstaff, a finance professor at the University of
California Los Angeles. While collateral protects middlemen from
counterparty risk, there could be unexpected losses if the price
of CDS doesn’t rise to reflect an imminent default, he said.  “Sudden defaults would shock the market because then you
wouldn’t have the collateral to cover the full payment,”
Longstaff said.  Banks also may discover that collateral they hold might not
be worth as much, said  University of Houston ’s Pirrong. That
happened in 2008 when banks saw the value of mortgage-related
securities held as collateral plummet.  “Collateral is a great way to protect yourself,” Pirrong
said. “But when the financial system is in a crisis, you might
end up holding an empty bag.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yalman Onaran in  New York  at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net  or @yalman_bn on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 