-- U.S. Imposes Anti-Dumping Duties on Chinese Solar Imports
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-05-17T20:34:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/u-s-imposes-anti-dumping-duties-for-chinese-solar-imports.html
The U.S. Commerce Department imposed
tariffs of 31 percent to 250 percent on Chinese solar-product
imports, siding with companies including  SolarWorld AG (SWV)  in the
U.S. that said the items were sold below the cost of production.  The fees, announced today in an e-mailed statement, add to
duties as high as 4.73 percent imposed earlier for getting
unfair subsidies from China’s government. SolarWorld had asked
for levies of more than 100 percent. Aaron Chew, a New York-
based analyst at Maxim Group LLC, said before the decision that
tariffs higher than 10 percent would be considered a victory for
the U.S. companies.  “Commerce today put importers and purchasers on notice
about the consequences of importing illegally subsidized and
dumped products from China,” Gordon Brinser, the SolarWorld
unit’s president, said in a statement.  The Commerce Department said a final determination on the
tariffs would be made in early October. U.S. customs agents will
collect a deposit or bond on solar cells made in  China  in the 90
days before today’s decision.  SolarWorld said its Hillsboro, Oregon-based U.S. unit can’t
compete with Chinese exporters, including  Suntech Power Holdings
Co. (STP) , the world’s largest solar-panel maker, and  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) 
unless tariffs are imposed. Suntech was told to pay 31.22
percent, Trina’s levies were set at 31.14 percent and others
were told to pay duties ranging from 31.18 percent to 249.96
percent.  Shares Rise  U.S.-based solar-product companies rose in  New York  trading
after the announcement.  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  climbed 94 cents, or
6.7 percent, to $14.92, and  SunPower Corp. (SPWR)  added 51 cents, or 10
percent, to $5.59.  Opponents of the punitive tariffs, such as the Washington-
based Coalition for Affordable Solar Energy, which includes
 Westinghouse Solar Inc. (WEST)  and more than 100 other companies, claim
the levies would cost U.S. jobs.  “These duties do not reflect the reality of a highly
competitive global solar industry,” Andrew Beebe, Suntech’s
chief commercial officer, said in an e-mailed statement.  President  Barack Obama  has been criticized for his support
of solar-equipment manufacturers, including Solyndra LLC, with
some Republicans in Congress doubting the industry can be
profitable. The lawmakers are pushing Obama to take a tougher
stance with China, citing a $295 billion trade deficit.  Higher Tariffs, Costs  High tariffs may raise costs, slowing demand for
polysilicon that’s used to make solar panels, hurting U.S.
companies that reported $2.6 billion in exports in 2011,
including about $700 million to China, according to a study by
Ken Monahan and Caitlin Webber, analysts for Bloomberg
Government.  Sales of U.S.-made solar inverters, which convert
electricity generated by solar panels, may also be cut,
according to the report released May 15. U.S.-based firms
produced about 45 percent of the inverters installed in the U.S.
in 2010.  “Higher prices of solar panels may decrease U.S. demand,
which may exacerbate the oversupply of polysilicon,” and reduce
profit margins, according to the Bloomberg analysts.  Tariffs also may lead to China retaliating against U.S.
polysilicon producers with its own protectionist measures,
according to the report.  The U.S. solar industry’s production of polysilicon,
polymers and manufacturing equipment may be at risk, according
to Rhone Resch, chief executive officer of the Solar Energy
Industries Association, a Washington-based trade group.  Investments Jeopardized  “If the U.S.-China solar-trade disputes continue to
escalate, it will jeopardize these investments,” he said in an
e-mailed statement.  Growing demand outside the U.S. for solar panels may offset
losses caused by the tariffs, according to the Bloomberg
Government report.  The prices of solar modules, or panels, fell 50 percent
last year and continue falling, largely as a result of the cheap
Chinese imports, Timothy Brightbill, an attorney for SolarWorld,
said in an interview.  “A 50 percent price collapse has no relation to product
improvement,” Brightbill said before the decision was
announced. “It was all because of China’s massive overbuilt
capacity and the flooding of the market with Chinese imports.”  In its  initial determination  on the subsidies, Commerce
said Suntech should pay a 2.9 percent tariff and Trina should
pay 4.73 percent. All other Chinese solar-equipment firms were
told to pay 3.61 percent. The duties were retroactive for 90
days before the ruling.  The U.S. has also been jousting with China over  market
access  for products including steel pipes, poultry, tires and
music. Along with the European Union and  Japan , the U.S. filed a
complaint in March with the  World Trade Organization  challenging
the Asian nation’s export limits on rare-earth minerals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  