-- U.S. Seasonal Drought Outlook for May 17 to Aug. 31, 2012 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2012-05-17T12:58:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/u-s-seasonal-drought-outlook-for-may-17-to-aug-31-2012-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
 Seasonal Drought Outlook  as released by the National Weather
Service in  Camp Springs ,  Maryland :  Latest Seasonal Assessment - The Drought Outlook for May 3 -
July 31, 2012 is based on short-, medium-, and long-range
forecasts, initial conditions, and climatology. Since the
release of the previous Drought Outlook issued on April 19,
2012, a slight expansion of drought occurred in the Tennessee
Valley and lower Ohio Valley while drought conditions
intensified across the interior Southeast. In contrast, drought
improvement is noted across southern New England and southeast
Florida. Since precipitation signals are weak on the seasonal
time scale, this outlook is based primarily on short to medium
range forecasts and climatology. Some improvement is forecast
along the East Coast with improvement most likely across the
south-central Florida peninsula. The protracted drought across
Georgia and  South Carolina  is expected to persist. Persistence
is also forecast in northeast  Minnesota , but prospects for
improvement increase farther south in southern Minnesota and
northern  Iowa . Some improvement can be expected across the
drought areas of the central and southern high Plains, while
drought is expected to persist or expand across parts of the
West along with western and south-central  Texas . A drier
climatology supports persistence in Hawaii.  Discussion for the Seasonal Drought Outlook  Tools used in the U.S. Drought Outlook (USDO) included the
official CPC temperature and precipitation outlooks for June
2012 and the long lead forecast for June through August 2012,
various medium- and short-range forecasts and models such as the
6-10 day and 8-14 day forecasts, the most recent 180 and 384-
hour GFS total precipitation amounts, the soil moisture tools
based on the Constructed Analog on Soil (CAS) moisture, the
Climate Forecast System (CFS, versions 1 and 2), the four-month
Palmer drought termination and amelioration probabilities,
climatology, and initial conditions.  An upper level disturbance brought locally heavy rainfall to
southeastern  Florida , with 30-day precipitation totals running
1.5 to 3 inches above normal easing drought conditions.
Seabreeze generated thunderstorm activity is ongoing across the
Florida peninsula, indicating a timely start to the summer rainy
season. An additional 1-2 inches are forecast by HPC across
central and southern Florida during the upcoming 5-day period,
while CPC forecasts covering the 6-10 and 8-14 day periods both
indicate enhanced probabilities of above-average rainfall.
During the summer months, seabreeze driven convection provides a
significant percentage of annual rainfall to Florida and the
coastal areas of the Southeast. CPC’s monthly and seasonal
forecasts maintain equal chances for near, below or above median
rainfall, so based on the wet climatology for these areas,
drought improvement is likely, especially across the Florida
peninsula. Forecast confidence for Florida and coastal areas of
the Southeast is moderate to high.  Extreme to exceptional drought current extends from northern
Florida through central  Georgia  and parts of South Carolina and
 Alabama . While spotty showers and thunderstorms brought
increased moisture to portions of the interior Southeast during
the previous month, particularly across South Carolina, the
drought remains firmly entrenched due to extreme long term
deficits, which top 20 inches for the year in some locations.
The CPC 6-10 day outlook brings increased odds of above normal
rainfall to coastal areas of the Southeast, but for the inland
drought areas, all guidance from short range through the CPC
seasonal outlook indicates equal chances for near, below, or
above median precipitation. Thunderstorm activity is common
across the interior Southeast during the summer, but the
climatological percent of annual rainfall received is not
particularly high when compared to other seasons. Additionally,
due to the long standing precipitation deficits in the drought
areas, soil moisture content is extremely low, which can promote
abnormal heat and suppress convection. Sea surface temperatures
in the  Gulf of Mexico  are above average, however, which promotes
enhanced evaporation, and may provide a mitigating source of
moisture during periods of southerly flow. Based on these
conflicting factors, this forecast was produced under the
assumption of near normal summer rainfall, which would likely
not be sufficient to ameliorate the long term drought
conditions. Therefore, persistence is indicated across the
Southeastern Piedmont. Tropical cyclone activity in the
Southeast may bring improvement which is not indicated in this
forecast. Forecast confidence for the remainder of the Southeast
is low to moderate.  Several storm systems traversed the eastern seaboard during the
previous month, bringing periods of beneficial rainfall to
drought areas which previously had been developing across the
mid-Atlantic states and the Northeast. Other than a small area
in western  Connecticut , 30 day precipitation totals are
generally above average in this region, especially across  New
England , while deficits of 4-8 inches still exist over 90 days
from eastern Maryland through southern New England. No
additional significant rainfall is expected during the upcoming
two weeks, which may erode some of the recent moisture gains.
The CPC June monthly and June-August seasonal outlooks both call
for equal chances of near, below, or above median rainfall.
Scattered thunderstorm activity is expected across the Northeast
during the summer, though periods of heat and dryness are also
common. Based on the relatively shallow nature of the drought in
the Northeast, some improvement is forecast based on
climatology. Forecast confidence for the Northeast and mid-
Atlantic states is moderate.  Abnormal dryness and drought have expanded rapidly across the
mid-Mississippi Valley, particularly in western  Kentucky ,
southern  Illinois , far southeastern  Missouri , and northeastern
Arkansas. 30 day deficits greater than 3 inches are common in
this area, and 90 day deficits are 4 to 8 inches or greater. No
significant precipitation is expected in the short term, and the
CPC 8-14 day outlook predicts enhanced chances of below average
rainfall, which may promote continued rapid deterioration. CPC’s
monthly and seasonal outlooks both indicate equal chances of
near, below, or above median rainfall and enhanced probabilities
of above-median temperatures. The percent of annual rainfall
received during the summer months in the lower and middle
Mississippi Valley are slightly below the median, indicating
that the season is slightly drier when compared to other 3-month
periods. Based on the likelihood of short term drought
expansion, persistence is indicated in the existing drought
areas. Due to the potential for small scale heavy rain events
such as tropical cyclones, this forecast does not include
additional development areas. Forecast confidence for the mid-
Mississippi Valley is moderate.  Across the southern Plains, copious rainfall fell across
southern and western Texas, bringing significant drought relief,
with widespread one category reductions in the U.S. Drought
Monitor this week. In contrast, increasing rainfall deficits and
hot weather promoted rapidly developing dryness across
northeastern Texas and eastern  Oklahoma . CPC’s 6-10 and 8-14 day
outlooks both favor below average rainfall, which occurring
during May, a relatively wet time of year, may promote drought
development and expansion. CPC’s monthly and seasonal outlooks
maintain equal chances for near, below, or above median
precipitation. Based on the short term dryness and upcoming dry
season, persistence is expected across the existing drought
areas of the southern Plains. Forecast confidence for the
southern Plains is moderate to high.  Widespread heavy rainfall fell across the upper Midwest during
the previous month, with portions of southern Minnesota
receiving 3-5 inch rainfall surpluses. The increased moisture
has reduced drought across the northern Plains and upper
Midwest. Additional rainfall is expected based on HPC’s 5-day
accumulated precipitation outlook, and a continued wet pattern
through week 2 is reflected in CPC’s 6-10 and 8-14 day outlooks.
Further drought reduction is likely based on these short term
forecasts, and the summer months tend to be wet in the summer.
Therefore, improvement is indicated in this outlook for the
remaining drought areas of the upper Midwest, except across
areas near Lake Superior, which may miss out on the short range
rainfall. Forecast confidence for the upper Midwest is moderate
to high.  Severe to extreme drought is ongoing across southern  Arizona  and
New Mexico. The Southwestern Monsoon onset typically occurs in
July, with peak rainfall occurring during August. Monsoon
thunderstorms have the potential to bring local drought relief,
but there is quite a bit of uncertainty in the monsoon’s
intensity and extent forecast. A lack of snow cover in the
southern Rockies may promote an early development of the
Southwestern heat low, which could bring monsoon rains as early
as June, but some forecast tools indicate a below average
monsoon signal, particularly in eastern locations. Even given an
average monsoon, annual rainfall deficits are large across
southern New Mexico and the Texas panhandle. Therefore, some
improvement is forecast across the monsoon region of the
Southwest, with a small area of improvement in southeastern
Arizona and southwestern New Mexico. Forecast confidence for the
monsoon regions of the Southwest is low.  Widespread moderate to severe drought covers much of the
remainder of the Southwestern U.S., and a small area of moderate
drought has developed in central  Washington . While the
Southwestern Monsoon can bring moisture throughout the Four
Corners States, the summer is climatologically dry across the
Great Basin,  California , and the Northwest. The CPC 6-10 and 8-
14 day outlooks both favor abnormal dryness across the
Southwest, while the monthly and seasonal outlooks indicate
enhanced odds for below median precipitation in the Northwest.
Based on these forecasts, persistence is expected across the
drought areas of the western U.S. Redevelopment of drought is
possible in southwestern CO and southwestern UT. Forecast
confidence for the remainder of the West is high.  The summer months are climatologically dry in Hawaii. Therefore,
little improvement in existing drought areas is expected through
August. Forecast confidence for Hawaii is high  SOURCE:  National Weather Service   To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at   srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net  