-- U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending April 17 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2012-05-17T12:52:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-april-17-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Nebraska:  The discussion in the Looking Ahead section is simply a
description of what the official national guidance from the
 National Weather Service  (NWS) National Centers for
Environmental Prediction is depicting for current areas of
dryness and drought. The NWS forecast products utilized include
the HPC 5-day QPF and 5-day Mean Temperature progs, the 6-10 Day
Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability, and the
8-14 Day Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability,
valid as of late Wednesday afternoon of the USDM release week.
The NWS forecast web page used for this section is:
 http://www.cpc.ncep.noaa.gov/products/forecasts/ .  Weather Summary: Highly beneficial rainfall brought additional
drought relief to the south-central  United States  and began to
chip away at short-term precipitation deficits in the mid-
Atlantic and Northeastern States.  Parts of the Southeast also
experienced drought relief, but little rain fell in a core
drought area centered on central and southern Georgia and
northern  Florida .  In the Midwest, a dry week followed early-May
rainfall.  Dry conditions also prevailed across much of the
West.  The East: Much-needed rain put a significant dent in short-term
dryness (D0) and moderate to severe drought (D1 and D2) across
the mid-Atlantic and Northeastern States.  In fact, rain
eradicated nearly all of the D2 in the northern Atlantic coastal
plain.  Farther south, rain provided drought relief in many
areas, especially from parts of  Alabama  into northern Georgia
and the Carolinas.  Some of the most widespread heavy rain
affected  North Carolina , where totals of at least 4 to 6 inches
were common across the central one-third of the state.
Meanwhile, only light showers dotted the core area of extreme to
exceptional drought (D3 to D4) across the lower Southeast.  For
the year ending May 15, 2012, Augusta,  Georgia , received only
22.44 inches of rain.  The previous driest such period on record
occurred a year ago, from May 16, 2010 - May 15, 2011, when
29.72 inches fell.  At times, early-season heat has aggravated
drought conditions in the lower Southeast.  For example, recent
daily-record highs in Florida included 95?F (on May 11) in Ft.
Myers and 94F (on May 12) in Sarasota-Bradenton.  The Mid-South: Flash drought conditions began to develop in an
area centered on the lower Ohio Valley and the northernmost
portion of the Mississippi Delta.  The term flash drought refers
to acute short-term dryness, often aggravated by above-normal
temperatures.  A decline in crop conditions has been noted
across the Mid-South, with 10% of the Arkansas rice crop rated
in very poor to poor condition by May 13, according to USDA.
Some of the most significant drought was noted across western
 Kentucky , where severe drought (D2) expanded.  Drought also
began to creep northward into southern  Illinois .  The Midwest: Mostly dry weather returned, following a period of
beneficial rainfall in late April and early May.  There were
only minor changes to the depiction of dryness (D0) and moderate
drought (D1).  A core area of dryness and drought still existed
across the upper Midwest, including most of Minnesota and
northern  Iowa .  The Plains: Much of  Texas , except northern areas, experienced
substantial drought relief.  Widespread 2- to 4-inch totals were
noted across southern and western Texas, primarily from May 10-
12, allowing for a broad improvement in the drought depiction.
In the vicinity of Houston, Texas, May 11-12 totals included
9.83 inches at  Sugar Land  and 6.23 inches at Hobby Airport.
Despite some rainfall on the southern High Plains, winter wheat
continues to struggle, with 39% of the Texas crop rated in very
poor to poor condition on May 13.  Farther north, some modest
expansion of dryness (D0) was observed across the northern and
central Plains, as a relatively wet April was followed by a
rather dry first half of May.  The West: Parts of southern and eastern  New Mexico  received
widespread, locally heavy precipitation, but dry weather covered
the remainder of the West.  The drought impact type was changed
to long term (L) across southern New Mexico, where substantial
rain fell.  Elsewhere, relatively minor changes were highlighted
by a modest expansion of severe drought (D2) in northwestern
 Arizona  and southern  Nevada , and a slight expansion of severe
drought in north-central  Colorado .  Hawaii , Alaska and  Puerto Rico : Currently, there is neither
dryness nor drought depicted in Alaska and Puerto.  The drought
situation in Hawaii remained virtually unchanged, except for the
expansion of severe drought (D2) on the southern portion of the
Big Island due to deteriorating pasture conditions, and the
removal of some lingering dryness (D0) from eastern Oahu.  Looking Ahead: During the next 5 days (May 17-21), periods of
rain will continue to provide drought relief in the southern
Atlantic States, particularly across Florida’s peninsula.  In
Florida, 5-day rainfall totals could reach 1 to 3 inches, with
locally higher amounts. Meanwhile, generally light to moderately
heavy showers will spread across the northern and central Plains
and the upper Midwest, although most totals will be less than an
inch.  Elsewhere, mostly dry weather can be expected through May
21 from southern  California  to the southern Plains, and from the
Mid-South into the Ohio Valley.  The NWS 6- to 10-day outlook
for May 22-26 calls for near- to above-normal temperatures
nationwide, except for cooler-than-normal conditions in Florida
and the Northwest.  Meanwhile, below-normal rainfall in the
Northeast and from California to the central and southern Plains
will contrast with wetter-than-normal weather along the southern
Atlantic Coast and across the nation’s northern tier from the
Pacific Northwest to  Minnesota .  *T --Editors: Alex Tanzi  To contact the reporter on this story: Stephen Rose in Washington
at   srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  