-- U.S. April Leading Economic Indicators (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-05-17T14:07:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/u-s-april-leading-economic-indicators-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
leading economic indicators from the Conference Board.  The Conference Board Leading Economic Index for the U.S.
declined 0.1 percent in April to 95.5 (2004 = 100), following a
0.3 percent increase in March, and a 0.7 percent increase in
February.  Says Ataman Ozyildirim, economist at The Conference Board:
“The LEI declined slightly in April. Falling housing permits,
rising initial claims for  unemployment insurance  and subdued
consumer expectations offset small gains in the remaining
components. The LEI’s six-month growth rate fell slightly, but
remains in expansionary territory and well above its growth at
the end of 2011. The CEI, a measure of current economic
conditions, has also increased for five consecutive months.”  Says  Ken Goldstein , economist at The Conference Board: “The
indicators reflect an economy that’s still struggling to gain
momentum. Growth is slow, but choppy, and consumers, executives
and investors are looking for more progress.”  The Conference Board Coincident Economic Index for the U.S.
increased 0.2 percent in April to 104.3 (2004 = 100), following
a 0.2 percent increase in March, and a 0.1 percent increase in
February.  The Conference Board Lagging Economic Index increased 0.5
percent in April to 114.9 (2004 = 100), following a 0.3 percent
increase in March, and a 0.2 percent increase in February.  About The Conference Board Leading Economic Index for the U.S.  The composite economic indexes are the key elements in an
analytic system designed to signal peaks and troughs in the
business cycle. The leading, coincident, and lagging economic
indexes are essentially composite averages of several individual
leading, coincident, or lagging indicators. They are constructed
to summarize and reveal common turning point patterns in
economic data in a clearer and more convincing manner than any
individual component - primarily because they smooth out some of
the volatility of individual components.  The ten components of The Conference Board Leading Economic
Index for the U.S. include:  Average weekly hours, manufacturing  Average weekly initial claims for unemployment insurance  Manufacturers’ new orders, consumer goods and materials  ISM Index of New Orders  Manufacturers’ new orders, nondefense capital goods
excluding aircraft orders  Building permits, new private housing units  Stock prices, 500 common stocks  Leading Credit Index  Interest rate spread, 10-year Treasury bonds less federal
funds  Average consumer expectations for business conditions  For full press release and technical notes: www.conference-
board.org/data/bcicountry.cfm?cid=1  For more information about The Conference Board global business
cycle indicators: www.conference-board.org/data/bci.cfm  About The Conference Board  The Conference Board is a global, independent business
membership and research association working in the public
interest. Our mission is unique: To provide the world’s leading
organizations with the practical knowledge they need to improve
their performance and better serve society. The Conference Board
is a non-advocacy, not-for-profit entity holding 501 (c) (3)
tax-exempt status in the  United States . www.conference-board.org  The next release is scheduled for Thursday, June 21, 2012
at 10 A.M. ET  SOURCE: The Conference Board 