-- Treasury 10-Year Yields Close to Record Low on Data
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-05-17T21:18:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/u-s-10-year-break-evens-reaches-3-month-low-before-sale.html
Treasury 10-year yields  fell  to
almost the record low reached in September as reports suggested
the U.S. economic recovery is faltering and as investors sought
a haven from Europe’s worsening debt crisis.  Yields on the benchmark security dropped to as low as
1.6886 percent, the least since touching 1.6714 percent on Sept.
23. Spanish banks face credit-ratings downgrades by Moody’s
Investors Service as the government denied there was a run on
deposits at  Bankia SA (BKIA) , the ailing lender it’s taking over. The
U.S. sold $13 billion of 10-year Treasury Inflation-Protected
Securities a record negative yield.  “It’s return of capital versus return on capital; this is
the environment,” said Richard Schlanger, a  money manager  at
Pioneer Investments in  Boston , which invests $20 billion in
fixed income. “The news continues to get more and more dire out
of Europe. Some of the economic numbers this morning were
disappointing.”  The 10-year  yield  fell six basis points, or 0.06 percentage
point, to 1.70 percent at 5 p.m. New York time, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.75 percent security due May
2022 gained 18/32, or $5.63 per $1,000 face amount, to 100
15/32.  U.S. 10-year yields traded at the least since Sept. 23,
when it reached a record low after a Group of 20 finance chiefs
failed to ease concern the global economy was on the brink of
another recession.  The 30-year yield fell 11 basis points to 2.79 percent, and
reached 2.78 percent, the lowest since Dec. 19.  ’Strong Demand’  “There seems to be strong demand for flight-to-quality
assets in the Treasury market as evidenced by the surge lower in
longer-dated yields,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government bond
strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  The  Federal Reserve  bought $1.84 billion in bonds due from
February 2036 to November 2041 today as part of a program known
as Operation Twist. The purchases are part of the central bank’s
effort to replace $400 billion of shorter-term debt in its
holdings with longer maturities by the end of June to hold down
borrowing costs.  The Treasury said it would sell $99 billion in coupon debt
next week, including $35 billion of two-year and five-year
securities and $29 billion of seven-year notes.  The 10-year TIPS sale drew a yield of negative 0.391
percent, compared with a forecast of negative 0.329 percent,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of nine of the Fed’s 21
primary dealers. The previous record was negative 0.089 percent
on March 22.  Inflation Measure  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and similar-
maturity TIPS, a gauge of trader expectations for consumer
prices over the life of the debt, reached 2.04 percentage
points, the least since Jan. 23. The average during the past
decade is 2.15 percentage points.  The Fed’s preferred measure of gauging the outlook for
inflation has declined from the almost-seven-month high it
reached in March as U.S. economic data began to cool and
 Europe ’s debt problems began to worsen. The five-year, five-year
forward break-even rate, which projects the pace of consumer
price increases starting in 2017, fell yesterday to a two-month
low of 2.50 percent, down from 2.78 percent on March 19.  A measure of the U.S. cost of living was unchanged in
April, restrained by a drop in energy prices and supporting the
view of some Fed policy makers that inflation will ease. Last
month’s consumer-price index matched the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and followed three
straight gains that included a 0.3 percent rise in March, the
Labor Department said May 15.  Economic Data  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months decreased 0.1 percent after a 0.3 percent
gain in March, the New York-based group said today. Economists
projected the gauge would rise by 0.1 percent, according to the
median of 49 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  The Fed Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic index fell
to minus 5.8 this month, the lowest reading since September,
from 8.5 in the previous month. Economists forecast the gauge
would rise to 10, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey. Readings less than zero signal
contraction in the area covering eastern  Pennsylvania , southern
 New Jersey  and  Delaware .  Moody’s is expected to make a statement on downgrades for
Spanish banks this evening after 9 p.m. in  Madrid , said two
people with knowledge of the situation, who asked not to be
identified because the decision hasn’t been announced. Moody’s
declined to comment.  Spain’s Debt  Doubts about the health of  Spain ’s banking system have
helped drive up the country’s borrowing costs on concern about
its ability to cover losses caused by a real estate collapse
that threatens to force some lenders to seek state aid. The
yield on 10-year Spanish government debt climbed 2 basis points
to 6.26 percent today as the spread over German bunds widened to
4.90 percentage points from 3 percentage points on March 1.
Credit default swaps risen to 540 from 355 in that period.  Credit-default swaps on Spain have surged to a record 541
basis points May 14 from 355 on March 1 amid heightened concern
over the nation’s bank capital crisis.  Investors should avoid highly rated shorter-maturity debt
because the potential returns are too low, according to
DoubleLine Capital LP’s  Jeffrey Gundlach .  “There is absolutely no reason to own any investment-grade
bonds inside of three years for sure,” Gundlach, chief
executive officer of Los Angeles-based DoubleLine, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance Midday” with
 Tom Keene . “And maybe even five years is getting to that
category because it has no yield.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in  New York  at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  