-- Tullow Says Kenya’s Oil Potential May Exceed Uganda
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-05-17T07:39:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/tullow-says-kenya-s-oil-potential-may-exceed-uganda-correct-.html
(Corrects location in final paragraph of story published
May 16.)  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  Chief Executive
Officer Aidan Heavey said  Kenya ’s oil potential may be greater
than neighboring Uganda, where the company and its partners have
found about 2.5 billion barrels of resources.  “What surprised us in Kenya was that the first well had
such a big section of oil,” Heavey said in London. Drilling at
Tullow’s Ngamia-1 well revealed more than 100 meters (328 feet)
of oil, more than double the amount at its other East African
exploration wells, the company said earlier this month.  Tullow, which has unlocked billions of barrels in frontier
regions from  Ghana  to  French Guiana , is seeking to replicate
those finds in  East Africa . While Kenya has no proven oil
reserves,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  found natural gas
in its Anza Basin in 1976. Tullow is working with  Total SA (FP)  and
 Cnooc Ltd. (883)  to develop oilfields over the border in Uganda, where
it expects to start production as soon as this year.  Ngamia-1’s column of oil is the largest oil-bearing section
Tullow has found in a single well, Heavey said today. “It’s
only one well in an area nearly the size of  England ,” he said.
The London-based company has drilled the well, in Block 10BB, to
1,515 meters and plans to extend the depth to 2,700 meters.  “We are pretty confident that we can move pretty fast in
Kenya if we prove up the commercial amount of oil,” Heavey told
reporters. “It’s a great start.”  Separately, the CEO said that Tullow is in talks with “a
few companies” about the possible sale of its assets in
Pakistan and Bangladesh.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in  London  at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Cunningham at 
 scunningha10@bloomberg.net  