-- Human Genome in Talks With Potential Suitors
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-05-17T20:20:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/human-genome-in-talks-with-potential-suitors.html
Human Genome  Sciences Inc. said it’s
in talks with “major” pharmaceutical and biotechnology
companies about a potential transaction and adopted measures to
avoid a hostile takeover by  GlaxoSmithKline Plc. (GSK)   Human Genome entered into confidentiality agreements with
“certain parties” and is providing an opportunity to engage in
due diligence reviews, the Rockville, Maryland-based company
said today in a statement. Its board of directors unanimously
said shareholders should reject Glaxo’s “inadequate” $2.6
billion offer.  Glaxo said on May 9 it would commence with the bid for
Human Genome, its partner on the Benlysta drug for lupus, by
offering $13 a share in cash directly to stockholders. The offer
was 81 percent more than the stock’s closing price on April 18,
the day before Glaxo’s interest became public. Human Genome
today said it adopted a so-called “poison pill” shareholder
rights plan that will last one year to enable the company to
complete its strategic review.  “This is all the usual and expected posturing,”  Eric Schmidt , an analyst at Cowen & Co., wrote in an e-mail today.
“I believe GSK remains committed to buying HGSI and do not
expect others to have much interest.”  $15 a Share  Human Genome appears interested in selling, Schmidt said.
He said a deal may get done for about $15 a share.  “The rights plan will not prevent any offers or
transactions that the board determines to be in the best
interest of HGS and its stockholders,” the company said today
in a separate statement.  Human Genome fell 2 cents to $14.23 at the close in  New
York . The  shares  had dropped 76 percent from their 2011 peak
before the Glaxo offer became public last month. Glaxo declined
0.9 percent to 1,409 pence in  London .  “The board believes that GSK acted to take advantage of
the company’s depressed stock price levels,” Human Genome said.  Glaxo will proceed with its offer, which reflects the value
of Benlysta, Human Genome’s other assets and cost savings of at
least $200 million and the bid will close on June 7, the U.K.
drugmaker said in a statement today.  “GSK believes its offer represents full and fair value and
is in the best interests of both companies’ shareholders,” the
company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  