-- Hutchison Whampoa Fails in Challenge to Eircom Bid Block
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-05-17T19:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/hutchison-whampoa-fails-in-challenge-to-eircom-bid-block.html
Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , controlled by
Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing , failed in a legal challenge
to a decision by Eircom Group’s examiner to reject a 2 billion-
euro ($2.5 billion) bid for Ireland’s largest phone company.  Judge Peter Kelly, who heard the Hutchison challenge in the
 High Court  in Dublin yesterday, said the examiner was running
the process in a reasonable manner and that he had identified
“numerous” shortcomings in the company’s bid.  “We are disappointed, however we respect the court’s
decision,” Rachel Channing, a spokeswoman for Hutchison unit
Three Ireland, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “Three
believes its offer was best for Eircom, its stakeholders and
 Ireland Inc. (IRLD) ’  Three Ireland and New York-based DW Investment Management
LP, which represents some Eircom floating-rate note investors,
started a challenge on May 15 against examiner Michael McAteer’s
decision to proceed with a survival plan for the company based
on proposals from its first-lien, or most senior lenders. The
examiner is overseeing a court-supervised debt restructuring at
Dublin-based Eircom.  Eircom filed for examinership, an Irish version of
 bankruptcy protection , on March 30 to restructure the 3.8
billion euros of net debt accumulated in five ownership changes
over 13 years.  Hutchison’s bid for Eircom was rejected partly because it
would have doubled the losses suffered by the phone company’s
most-senior lenders, McAteer said in an affidavit filed with the
court this week and obtained by Bloomberg News.  Smaller Recovery  The first-lien lenders to Eircom would have recovered 70
percent of their debts under Hutchison’s indicative bid,
compared with their own plan for 85 percent recovery and full
equity control of the company, he said.  An initial Hutchison bid on April 27 had conditions that
included the need for approval by 50 percent of first-lien
creditors, ‘‘which was not forthcoming,” the examiner said in
the affidavit.  While a second offer on May 7 dropped this condition, the
bid was still subject to due diligence and antitrust clearance,
which was “questionable,” he said in the affidavit.  Meanwhile, Judge Kelly said meetings of Eircom’s creditors
may proceed, because the examiner is seeking to complete the
restructuring by month-end.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  