-- Vale Said to Hire Citigroup, Scotiabank for Oil Assets Sale
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-05-17T21:30:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/vale-said-to-hire-citigroup-scotiabank-for-sale-of-oil-assets.html
Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s largest iron-ore
producer, hired  Bank of Nova Scotia  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to sell
its oil and natural gas assets in Brazil as it focuses on metals
production, according to three people familiar with the matter.  The Rio de Janeiro-based company’s stakes in the  oil
fields , located both within Brazil and offshore, may be worth as
much as $1 billion, said one of the people, who asked not to be
identified because the negotiations are private.  Vale Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira, who took over
from  Roger Agnelli  a year ago, is focusing on returning capital
to investors as the company’s profit margins shrink because of
lower prices for  iron ore  and metals. The company exited the
kaolin mineral business earlier this month after selling a 61.5
percent stake in its Cadam SA unit, which operates an open-pit
mine in the Brazilian state of Amapa, for $30.1 million.  “Vale’s non iron-ore assets still didn’t give the expected
returns,” Leonardo Brito, an equity analyst at hedge fund
Teorica Investimentos, said today in a telephone interview from
 Rio de Janeiro . “Vale is trying to reduce investments and
instead start increasing its dividends.”  An official at Citigroup in  Sao Paulo , who can’t be named
under corporate policy, declined to comment. A Vale official in
Rio didn’t have an immediate response when contacted by
Bloomberg News today. Scotiabank spokesman Joe Konecny also
didn’t immediately have a comment when reached by telephone.  Sale Deadline  Ferreira told reporters May 3 that the company expected to
finish by the end of June a study on whether to sell its oil and
gas unit. Earlier this year, he said that the company won’t take
part in any new oil block auctions in  Brazil  or elsewhere.  “We are constantly looking at and analyzing our assets,
not only in relation to their efficiency but also considering
its scale,” Ferreira told reporters Feb. 16. “Smaller assets
are always more complex for us to manage,” he said.  Vale entered the hydrocarbon exploration business in Brazil
in 2007 and has stakes in both onshore and offshore blocks,
according to an April 17 20-F filing with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission.  “We believe that natural gas will play an important role
in the global energy matrix in the future, given its advantages
of lower  carbon emissions  and greater flexibility with regard to
power generation,” Vale said in the filing.  Oil Resources  Vale  said  in 2010 that it certified oil and natural gas
resources equivalent to 210 million barrels of oil, with
potential to produce 58,000 barrels a day in 2017. The company
has 23 offshore blocks in 14 concessions in Brazil’s Santos,
Espirito Santo and Para-Maranhao basins and two onshore
concessions in the Parnaiba basin, Vale said at the time.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , and Repsol
YPF SA are among Vale’s partners in the concessions, according
to  data  from the Brazilian oil regulator known as ANP.  Vale  dropped  3.7 percent to 34.78 reais at the close in Sao
Paulo today, the lowest level since September 2009. The stock
declined about 18 percent in the past 12 months, more than the
15 percent drop in the Brazilian benchmark Bovespa  index .  To contact the reporter on this story:bn
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  or
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  