-- Venezuela Economy Grows at Fastest Pace in Almost Four Years
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2012-05-17T19:32:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/venezuelan-economy-grew-more-than-expected-in-first-quarter-1-.html
Venezuela ’s economy grew at the
fastest pace since 2008 in the first quarter as record oil
revenue allowed President  Hugo Chavez  to finance a boom in
housing construction ahead of elections this year.  The economy expanded 5.6 percent from the year earlier,
Finance Minister  Jorge Giordani  said at a press conference in
Caracas today. The median estimate of seven analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was for growth of 4.1 percent. The economy grew at the
fastest pace since the second quarter of 2008, when it expanded
7.8 percent.  A raft of new social programs for the elderly and children
in extreme poverty as well as a pledge to eradicate a 2 million-
home deficit are cornerstones of Chavez’s re-election bid in
October. The  construction industry  led expansion in the first
quarter, leaping 29.6 percent from the year before while
financial institutions grew 27.7 percent, the bank said.  “Here we have a vision of growth for the next six years,”
Giordani said. “We’ve left behind the six quarters of recession
which were affected by the world capitalist crisis. This is
growth based on a productive model.”  Venezuela,  South America ’s largest oil producer and a
founding member of OPEC, experienced economic contractions of
3.3 percent in 2009 and 1.4 percent in 2010, before expanding
4.2 percent last year.  Oil Revenue  Of the 30 countries that have already reported first
quarter growth,  Venezuela’s was the fourth fastest after China,
Latvia and  Indonesia . The 5.6 percent expansion matched that of
 Kazakhstan , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Net income for Petroleos de Venezuela SA, the state oil
company, surged 42.4 percent last year to $4.5 billion as the
average price for the country’s crude oil rose to a record
$101.06 a barrel. The price averaged $112.04 in the first
quarter, according to preliminary figures by the Oil Ministry.  The oil sector grew 2.2 percent while the non-oil sector
expanded 5.6 percent. Transport, retail and communications grew
8.5 percent, 7.9 percent and 7 percent respectively.  After losing his absolute majority in parliamentary
elections in September 2010, Chavez announced the creation of a
housing program to eradicate Venezuela’s more than 2 million-
home deficit by 2018.  ‘Spending Expansion’  The project has enlisted companies such as  China ’s CITIC
Group Corp to build low-income homes in Caracas and across the
country. The program has constructed 50,000 homes so far this
year, state-run Agencia Venezolana de Noticias quoted Oil
Minister  Rafael Ramirez  as saying May 10.  Public spending climbed 17 percent to 81.19 billion
bolivars ($18.9 billion) in real terms in the first quarter from
a year earlier, according to calculations by Bank of America
Merrill Lynch.  Growth at this pace is not sustainable in the medium-term,
said Alejandro Arreaza, an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in New
York.  “You’ve got growth that’s based simply on spending
expansion,” Arreaza said in a phone interview. “There’s a
point at which you can’t keep on increasing spending -- the
economy won’t react to additional increases.”  Inflation has been slowing as the government expands price
controls. Consumer prices rose 0.8 percent in April, the slowest
pace since at least 2007, as caps on a range of consumer care
products took effect, driving down prices by as much as 25
percent. The government already regulated the price of more than
100 food products.  ‘Significant Adjustments’  Venezuela’s annualized inflation rate of 23.8 percent
remains the highest among 93 economies tracked by Bloomberg.  Regulation of prices has led to shortages of milk, chicken,
beef, coffee and cooking oil.  Imports grew 48 percent to in the first quarter to $13.19
billion from a year earlier, the bank said. Exports grew 23.6
percent to $25.72 billion on revenue from higher  oil prices .  Venezuela posted a current account surplus of $7.14 billion
in the first quarter of 2012 and a capital account deficit of
$8.61 billion, according to the central bank.  Whoever wins October’s election will have to implement
“significant adjustments” in 2013 such as a devaluation of the
bolivar, Arreaza said.  Economic growth probably will slow toward the end of the
year as the government eases back on spending after the
election, said  Alberto Ramos , senior Latin American economist at
Goldman Sachs & Co. in  New York .  “This economy would have responded much better to this oil
price environment five years ago and if you maintain the same
policies five years from now it will respond even less,”  Ramos
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 