-- Villas-Boas, Klopp, Deschamps Head Liverpool Candidates: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-05-17T06:51:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/villas-boas-klopp-deschamps-head-liverpool-candidates-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Liverpool Vacancy  Former Chelsea manager Andre Villas-Boas,  Borussia
Dortmund ’s Jurgen Klopp and Marseille coach Didier Deschamps are
among the candidates to replace Kenny Dalglish after Liverpool
fired him as manager yesterday, the  Guardian reported .  Fenway Sports Group, Liverpool’s owner, is said to want a
successor with title-winning experience who can lead the club
long-term, the Guardian reported, adding that criteria may rule
out Wigan’s Roberto Martinez. Former Liverpool manager Rafael Benitez is unlikely to be in the frame, the paper said.  City Targets Ibrahimovic  Manchester City has made a move for AC Milan’s 25 million-
pound ($39.7 million) rated striker Zlatan Ibrahimovic, who’s
asked for time to consider the switch, the  Sun reported .  City manager  Roberto Mancini , who signed Ibrahimovic for 22
million pounds while at  Inter Milan  in 2006, wants to make the
Swede the Premier League’s highest-paid player with wages of
300,000 pounds a week, the Sun added.  Manchester Match  Manchester United is ready to match Manchester City’s 25
million-pound bid for Arsenal captain Robin van Persie and also
offer the striker a contract worth 250,000 pounds a week, the
 Daily Mirror reported .  Italian champion Juventus remains keen to sign the Dutchman
and has put together a package which includes a transfer fee of
25 million pounds and 180,000 pounds a week in wages, the Mirror
added.  Nani Negotiations  Manchester United could trade Nani should the Portuguese
winger’s current contract negotiations collapse, the  Daily Mail
reported . United wants Nani to stay, though has been alerted to
attention from Atletico  Madrid  and Juventus, the newspaper added.  Ferdinand’s Anger  Rio Ferdinand holds his  Manchester United  manager  Alex Ferguson  partly responsible for his omission from  England ’s
European Championship squad, the  Mirror reported .  Ferdinand is said to have been angered by comments Ferguson
made that cast doubt on the 33-year-old defender’s ability to
play three matches in eight days, the Mirror added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  