-- Wal-Mart Not Alone in Late Disclosure of Bribe Probe
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   G r e g   F a r r e l l
-- 2012-05-17T13:38:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/wal-mart-reluctance-to-reveal-bribery-is-common-business-posture.html
When  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  and  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  received internal reports that employees may have
paid bribes in  Mexico , each faced the same vexing question:
should they turn themselves in to U.S. authorities?  Tyson, the biggest U.S.  food processor , avoided prosecution
by paying $5.2 million and admitting it made improper payments
to government-employed inspectors. Wal-Mart, the world’s largest
retailer, began an internal probe in 2005, shut it down and
didn’t disclose the matter to regulators and prosecutors until
late last year, after learning the New York Times was
investigating, the paper said.  The U.S. offers leniency to companies like Tyson that self-
report. Yet many choose to remain quiet, calculating that they
will cooperate with the government if it uncovers their bribery.
Companies root out their wrongdoing and improve their compliance
programs, assuming that any credit the government gives them for
self-reporting is not worth the fines and penalties and negative
publicity that follow disclosure.  “I’ve represented many, many companies that have elected
reasonably not to disclose, and management at those companies
was highly ethical,” said  Joel Cohen , a former federal
prosecutor now at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP’s New York office.
“Disclosure is not some magic bullet. The magic bullet is
having a good system to mitigate corruption.”  Corruption Cases  Since 2008, the U.S. has resolved 50 corporate foreign
bribery cases, costing companies $3.9 billion in fines and
penalties. None of the top 10 cases involved voluntary
disclosures, including those against  Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Europe ’s
largest engineering firm; Kellogg Brown & Root LLC, which was
spun off in 2007 from Houston-based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , the
oilfield services company; and Daimler AG, the maker of
Mercedes-Benz cars and trucks.  At least 21 companies self-reported, including Tyson;
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s second-largest health care
company; and Aon Plc, the world’s largest insurance broker.  Lawyers who have prosecuted or defended such companies
estimate that only about a third of the 150 pending criminal
cases resulted from voluntary disclosure. They said that
hundreds of businesses don’t reveal foreign bribery. The U.S.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act bars corporate employees or their
agents from paying bribes to government officials to obtain or
retain business or to secure an improper advantage.  Because FCPA cases are hard to detect and investigate, the
U.S. offers the possibility of reduced penalties or charges for
companies that self-report, cooperate with the government and
strengthen their compliance programs.  ‘What’s the Point?’  Lawyers typically urge self-disclosure for bribery
allegations that involve senior management, an important
contract, a whistle-blower, external auditors or a foreign
regulator, said Claudius Sokenu, a former SEC attorney. Some
industries also require self-reporting to the government.  “If it doesn’t meet those factors, there’s a significant
chance that I would advise a client not to self-report,” said
Sokenu, now at Arnold & Porter LLP. “What’s the point? No good
deed goes unpunished.”  Wal-Mart said it’s cooperating with probes by the  Justice
Department  and the Securities and Exchange Commission. The
Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer, which had sales of $444
billion in 27 countries in fiscal 2012, said it’s working to
strengthen corporate compliance worldwide.  The Justice Department and SEC encourage voluntary
disclosure. Assistant Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer spoke to
FCPA lawyers in November 2010, saying he understood the question
of whether to self-report is a difficult one.  ‘Favorable Resolution’  “If you do not voluntarily disclose your organization’s
conduct, and we discover it on our own, or through a competitor
or customer of yours, the result will not be the same,” he
said. “There is no doubt that a company that comes forward on
its own will see a more favorable resolution than one that
doesn’t.”  Breuer said in a speech last November that the Justice
Department will release “detailed new guidance” this year on
the FCPA’s criminal and civil enforcement provisions. Alisa Finelli, a Justice Department spokeswoman, said this week that
Breuer wasn’t available for further comment.  FCPA enforcement has increased as the Justice Department
and SEC have targeted the oil and gas industries, freight-
forwarding businesses, pharmaceutical companies and device
makers, and financial institutions that deal with sovereign
wealth funds. The government may generate cases through overseas
regulators, whistle-blowers, media accounts, competitors,
customers or stings by the  Federal Bureau of Investigation .  Prosecution Guide  Prosecutors follow a nine-step guide on business
prosecutions in deciding how to resolve cases. The criteria
include the seriousness of the crimes, a company’s history of
wrongdoing, its willingness to cooperate, and the extent of
compliance programs. The government may decide to charge a
company or its subsidiaries, enter into deferred-prosecution or
non-prosecution agreements or bring no charges at all.  Companies that disclose wrongdoing will be regarded
favorably for being honest, said Richard Grime, a former SEC
assistant director of enforcement.  “They’re not going in after the government found out about
it or it was in the press,” said Grime, now at  O’Melveny &
Myers LLP ’s Washington office. “They’re walking in proactively
and saying: ‘This is something we found out about and want you
to know about.’”  ‘Crystallize Liability’  Disclosure helps companies to “crystallize whatever
liability might be there,” he said.  “You have identified an issue and don’t want it hanging on
your books,” Grime said. “If they choose to move forward on
the enforcement track, you know what the issue is, how the
government frames it and what the fines and penalties may be.”  Prosecutors and regulators follow the U.S. Sentencing
Guidelines and may reduce fines and penalties for companies that
voluntarily disclose. That amount is difficult to measure
because the government also credits the extent of a company’s
cooperation and its compliance program, and it doesn’t break
down the weight of each, said attorney Danforth Newcomb of
Shearman & Sterling LLP.  “None of those calculations are algebraic or scientific or
precise,” Newcomb said.  Companies also send a laudable message by disclosing
wrongdoing, Newcomb said.  “Where there is a voluntary disclosure, there is a message
that the senior management is not supportive of the conduct
being alleged,” Newcomb said. “The tone at the top is one of
the measures of an effective compliance program.”  Improper Payments  J&J, which admitted making improper payments to government
health care providers in  Greece , Poland and  Romania , got a 25
percent discount on its criminal fine of $21.4 million. Its
total criminal and civil payments were $70 million.  BizJet International Sales and Support Inc. , a Tulsa,
Oklahoma-based provider of aircraft maintenance, paid $11.8
million in March to resolve a bribery case. It got a 30 percent
reduction on its criminal penalty for its voluntary disclosure,
“extraordinary cooperation” and extensive remediation.  The biggest FCPA case ever settled involved Siemens, which
agreed to pay $800 million to the U.S. and $814 million to
German authorities in 2008. It didn’t self-report, but U.S.
prosecutors cited the “exceptional” cooperation and
remediation of Siemens, which spent another $1 billion on
lawyers, accountants and internal controls. Its settlement
followed a raid by authorities on its German offices.  Nigerian Contracts  In a case involving $6 billion in contracts in  Nigeria ,
joint venture partners that built liquefied natural gas
facilities admitted using agents to funnel $182 million in
bribes to government officials.  The partners resolved their cases by paying a total of $1.5
billion. Houston-based Kellogg Brown & Root LLC settled in 2009;
Paris-based Technip SA and Amsterdam-based Snamprogetti
Netherlands BV reached accords in 2010; and Tokyo-based JGC
Corp. settled last year.  In January, Tokyo-based Marubeni Corp. paid $54.6 million
as a criminal penalty to resolve charges related to its role as
agent for the joint venture. Each got credit for cooperation and
remediation, not voluntary disclosures.  Voluntary disclosures might increase because of the passage
of the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, which lets corporate whistle-
blowers collect as much as 30 percent of penalties when they
report financial wrongdoing, said Timothy Dickinson, an attorney
at Paul Hastings LLP’s  Washington  office.  Game Changer  “The big game changer has been the Dodd-Frank bill,”
Dickinson said. “If a company is doing an internal audit and
came across something 10 years ago it might have said, ‘We have
a problem, and we’d better fix that.’ Today, one of the first
things a company has to ask is, ‘Should we self-report?’”  Many FCPA lawyers believe that self-reporting means that
companies lose control of an investigation being handled by an
outside  law firm , Dickinson said.  “While that may be the case in certain circumstances, I
would expect the government to act reasonably even after a
disclosure if the government expects to build trust and
confidence with the FCPA bar,” he said.  Newcomb said that lawyers working in voluntary disclosure
cases have some measure of control over investigations.  “I was brought in for a case with a company doing business
in 100 countries,” he said. “I talked the government into
letting the company’s lawyers do investigations in only about 20
of those countries.”  Faced with evidence of possible wrongdoing in distant
corners of the globe, top managers at multinationals must make
hard choices in authorizing expensive investigations by outside
law firms, said Gregory Bruch of Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP.  ‘Costs are Apparent’  “The costs are apparent, and quantifiable, while the
benefits seem very intangible,” Bruch said.  When chief executives try to quantify the cost of major
decisions, they lack specific guidance from the Justice
Department on FCPA cases, Bruch said.  “The attorney-client privilege is an intangible asset,”
he said. “You’re talking about giving up assets and spending
money in an area where there are uncertain liabilities and
uncertain benefits.”  FCPA cases typically are run by one or two Justice
Department lawyers, working with SEC attorneys and FBI agents.
All three have units dedicated to the FCPA. They work with law
firms for companies that turn over documents and e-mails, while
interviewing corporate witnesses.  Steven Tyrrell, a Justice Department fraud section chief
from 2006 to 2009, said that voluntary disclosures mean that
government lawyers with little knowledge of the facts may direct
attorneys for companies to expand their investigations.  ‘It’s a Negotiation’  “It’s a negotiation,” Tyrrell said. “The company lawyers
may say they talked to witnesses in China and  Vietnam , and the
government may say ‘Why don’t you talk to witnesses in
 Indonesia ?’ I wouldn’t say that’s losing control. But you have
to answer to someone who’s going to make decisions about whether
your investigation has been appropriately thorough.”  Tyrrell, a partner at Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP in
Washington, estimated that about one-third of the DOJ’s 150
pending criminal FCPA investigations involve voluntary
disclosures. The U.S. also has 80 pending civil probes,
according to an October 2010 report by the Organization for
Economic and Cooperation Development’s Working Group on Bribery.  Many companies have concluded that they can’t see a
concrete benefit in making a voluntary disclosure, said Paul Berger, a former SEC associate director of enforcement now at
Debevoise & Plimpton LLP.  ’It’s Very, Very Tough’  “It’s very, very tough to answer your client’s question
and say there is a real, palpable benefit from self-reporting,”
Berger said. Many companies conclude they will avoid the
sanctions that follow from self-reporting, he said.  “They say, ‘We’ll fully investigate the issue, fix the
problem and make sure we’re fully compliant with the law,
discipline or fire employees, and enhance our compliance
system,’” he said. “They say, ‘We’ll do everything the
government would have told us to do had we gone in, but we won’t
have a sanction.’”  Companies have a hard time in deciding what to do, he said.  “Most of them want to do the right thing,” Berger said.
“The problem is there’s not enough information out there in
public domains as to the benefits of voluntary disclosure. The
government needs to issue more guidance as to what the true
benefits are.”  Grime said that many companies fear the consequences of
voluntary disclosures.  “The unknowable benefit is either not sufficiently clear
or doesn’t neutralize the fact of dealing with your problem
publicly,” Grime said.  “The reality is that all the government can do is take a
discount on fines and penalties,” he said. “At the end of the
day for companies, money is not the issue. Wal-Mart can stomach
the fines, but it’s the collateral consequences, the publicity
and the reputational harm that makes voluntary disclosure
unpalatable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey  at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Farrell in  New York  at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  