-- Wal-Mart Shares Surge After Profit Tops Estimates
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-05-17T20:44:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/wal-mart-profit-tops-estimates-as-traffic-boosts-sales.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, rose the most in more than three years after
reporting first-quarter profit that topped analysts’ estimates
as its low prices increased customer traffic and boosted sales.  Wal-Mart climbed 4.2 percent to $61.68 at the close in  New
York , the biggest gain since February 2009.  Net income in the quarter ended April 30 rose 10 percent to
$3.74 billion, or $1.09 a share, from $3.4 billion, or 97 cents,
a year earlier, Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart said today
in a statement. The average of 24 analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg was $1.04 a share.  At a time when bribery probes in  Mexico  threaten growth in
Wal-Mart’s international operations, Chief Executive Officer
 Mike Duke  is trying to boost U.S. sales by stocking more items
on its shelves and honoring its promise to keep prices low. The
company is working with suppliers to lower costs and pass some
of the savings on to consumers.  “Their investment in pricing has really paid off,”
Natalie Berg, an analyst with London research firm  Planet
Retail , said in a telephone interview. “Traffic and basket size
were both up. That’s a good sign. We’ll see continued investment
in price.”  Total revenue rose 8.5 percent to $113 billion. Sales in
Wal-Mart’s U.S. stores open for at least a year climbed 2.6
percent, the third straight quarterly gain after more than two
years of declines.  Mexico Probes  Wal-Mart also said the  U.S. Department of Justice  and the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission have informed it that
they are investigating the company for possible violations of
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and that it is cooperating
with those probes. The New York Times reported last month that
Wal-Mart systematically bribed Mexican officials so it could
more quickly open stores in the country.  Federal and local government agencies in Mexico also have
recently started investigations of these matters, and the
company is cooperating with those probes as well, Wal-Mart said.  Several of Wal-Mart’s  shareholders  are suing the company,
current and former directors and officers and past and present
officers of its Walmex unit, the company said. Wal-Mart’s board
audit committee is conducting an internal probe as well.  International Sales  Sales at Wal-Mart’s U.S. stores rose 5.9 percent to $66.3
billion. The company’s international operations boosted sales 15
percent to $32.1 billion and Sam’s Club sales climbed 7.1
percent to $12.1 billion, excluding fuel.  Wal-Mart has been working to restock shelves and add more
items to boost revenue. Inventories in the quarter grew 7.2
percent from a year earlier to $41.3 billion.  “Going back to basics has worked for them,” Berg said.  Sales in Wal-Mart’s international business rose fastest in
 Brazil , Mexico and the U.K., Doug McMillon, the unit’s
president, said in prepared remarks. Brazil sales climbed 15
percent as same-store sales in the country grew 8.6 percent, he
said.  Traffic at Wal-Mart’s stores in  China  declined 6.5 percent.
Wal-Mart had been testing three new store types in the nation
and has closed all of them. The company needs to focus on
improving its existing locations, McMillon said.  ‘Foundational Work’  “We have some foundational work to do,” McMillon said.
“We’ll still open new stores, but our primary focus is
improving operational execution of our current stores’ base.”  Wal-Mart needs to build recognition of its brand name in
China and get product assortments right, Chief Financial Officer
 Charles Holley  said on a call with media. He also said Wal-Mart
is working to reduce costs in preparation for converting stores
in that market from a model of selling items on sales and
promotions to one of offering everyday low prices as it does in
the U.S.  “We have to get the infrastructure correct so we can
compete effectively,” he said on the call. “To be everyday low
price, you have to be everyday low cost.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  