-- Wall Street Hellhound Puts JPMorgan’s Loss in Perspective
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2012-05-17T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/wall-street-hellhound-puts-jpmorgan-s-loss-in-perspective-books.html
If you want to put  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ’s announced $2 billion trading loss into perspective, pick
up  Michael Perino ’s “The Hellhound of Wall Street.”  This vivid reconstruction of former New York City
prosecutor  Ferdinand Pecora ’s investigation into the crash of
1929 shows how a financial scandal often must reach a tipping
point before it triggers tighter legislation.  In Senate hearings held as banks across the U.S. were
shutting down in 1933, Pecora exposed stock-price manipulations,
hidden losses and other unsavory dealings. The testimony ignited
outrage against “banksters,” hastening laws including the
 Glass-Steagall Act , which separated commercial and investment
banking.  Will JPMorgan’s bombshell give a similar impetus to the
Volcker rule, meant to prevent federally insured banks from
making bets for their own profit? That depends partly on the
size of the scandal, says Perino, a former Wall Street litigator
who teaches at St. John’s University School of Law in  New York .  “A $2 billion trading loss is nothing to sneeze at, but it
pales in comparison to the banking crisis of 1933,” he says.  Perino spoke with me by phone from his study in  New Jersey .
Outside his window, wild green parrots were nesting around
electrical transformers, which keep them warm in winter, he
says. We discussed books on the Great Depression and what they
tell us about today’s economic slump, austerity fatigue and
battles over banking rules.  ‘Distant Mirror’  Pressley: You appear to have immersed yourself in books on
the Depression.  Perino: The bulk of the material in the book came from
primary documents. There were contemporary newspapers. There
were many dusty documents in the  National Archives . There were
transcripts from the hearing. But to set the scene I needed to
review a huge amount of secondary literature on the Great
Depression.  Pressley: Among those books, which offered the best
“distant mirror” to our own times, to borrow Barbara Tuchman’s
title?  Perino: No one book gives you the whole picture; you need
to cut it up into slices. One of the best books for people
trying to understand the current European debates between
austerity and Keynesianism, for example, is Liaquat Ahamed’s
“Lords of Finance.” It’s a great reminder about the
devastating consequences that monetary and fiscal policy choices
can have on fragile economies.  Pressley: Did you gather any clues from this literature on
how to pull the West out of today’s economic mire?  The Crucible  Perino: I wasn’t focusing on how to fix a recession or a
depression. That’s the work of the economists, although we can
debate how good a job they’ve done. My focus was on the legal
changes that emerged from a financial crisis -- and on the
conditions under which reform legislation has a chance of
passing.  Many of the reforms that  Franklin Roosevelt  was able to
swiftly enact when he came into office had been floating around
 Washington  for years. But it was this crucible of the Pecora
investigation and the banking crisis of 1933 that created the
political conditions under which those reforms had a chance of
making it through Congress.  Pressley: So Glass-Steagall didn’t get enacted just because
Pecora was a master.  Perino: He was a skilled lawyer, but he also had impeccable
timing. If his examination had not occurred while the banking
crisis of 1933 was happening, things might have worked out very
differently. There were many times when this inquiry could have
gone off the rails. And it didn’t.  Bank Runs, 1933  Pressley: Because the whole financial system was
collapsing.  Perino: If you want to see the conditions on the ground in
that period, I recommend a couple of books. The best is “ The
Banking Crisis of 1933 ” by Susan Estabrook Kennedy. It’s a
wonderful blow-by-blow account of the spreading contagion from
bank to bank across the country. It describes the same fear that
drove the effective runs on  Lehman Brothers  and other financial
institutions in 2008.  As for the aftermath of the bank runs, there’s a book Helen
Burns wrote in the early 1970s called “ The American Banking
Community and New Deal Banking Reforms, 1933-1935 .” It’s a bit
dry and academic. But it looks at how the financial community
responded to all of these reform proposals. Anybody who reads
that book will be immediately reminded of the rollout of the
Dodd-Frank Act.  Pressley: What about JPMorgan and the Volcker rule?  ‘Timely Scandals’  Perino: Timely scandals have often played a critical role
in pushing through financial reform legislation. Glass-Steagall
was one example. Another was Sarbanes-Oxley. After Enron Corp.
collapsed, Sarbanes-Oxley was facing significant opposition in
Congress until the WorldCom Inc. scandal was disclosed. The
legislation sailed through afterwards.  With the JPMorgan loss, the Volcker rule has already come
through Congress. So the relevant consideration is the effect
this scandal will have on regulators implementing the rule. I’m
sure they will argue harder for a stricter rule.  Pressley: Any other books you recommend?  Perino: One would be John Brooks’s “ Once in Golconda .” He
was a New Yorker writer and this is one of the best popular
accounts of what the stock market looked like in the 1920s.  And for the longer history of America’s love-hate
relationship with  Wall Street , Steve Fraser wrote a book called
“ Every Man a Speculator .” It’s a wonderful social history of
the place Wall Street occupies in American consciousness.  “The Hellhound of Wall Street: How Ferdinand Pecora’s
Investigation of the Great Crash Forever Changed American
Finance” is from Penguin Press (341 pages, $27.95 in hardcover,
$17 in paperback). To buy the book in  North America , click  here .  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.
This interview was condensed from a longer conversation and an
e-mail exchange.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham  on history and Jeremy
Gerard on  theater .  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 