-- Zayat Bets Derby Loser Bodemeister Will End Triple Crown Drought
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-05-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/zayat-says-derby-loser-bodemeister-will-end-triple-crown-drought.html
Ahmed Zayat  is betting that
Bodemeister will finally end his stable’s drought in Triple
Crown races, even after the colt lost the  Kentucky Derby  in the
final sixteenth of a mile.  Zayat, who founded his racing group in 2005, has had three
runners-up in series events in the past four years, with
Pioneerof The Nile, Nehro and Bodemeister. His 2010 Kentucky
Derby favorite, Eskendereya, was scratched in the week before
the race.  Bodemeister, a speed horse which was the morning line
favorite in the Derby two weeks ago, was made the 8-5 favorite
in the 11-horse  Preakness Stakes  tomorrow at Pimlico Race Course
in Baltimore. The second favorite is Derby winner I’ll Have
Another, who caught Zayat’s colt in the final 16th of a mile at
Churchill Downs. The Preakness is 1 3/16 miles, a 16th shorter
than the Derby.  “It’s a very tall order,” Zayat said in a telephone
interview. “The horse ran a brilliant race in the Derby only to
have a heartbreaking defeat. He went 1 1/4 miles at this
unbelievable speed only to hold onto second. I don’t know
whether to be sad or happy.”  The colt covered the opening half mile in 45.39 seconds,
the fifth-fastest time in the Derby’s history. His six furlongs
in 1:09.80 and mile in 1:35.19 both were the fourth-fastest
times, according to Churchill Downs officials.  Zayat said there won’t be any change in strategy for
Bodemeister. Jockey  Mike Smith , who won the 1993 Preakness
aboard Prairie Bayou, will ride him again.  “If we try to take him out of his element, I don’t think
that’s good,” Zayat said. “He’s a very fast horse.”  Zayat said Bodemeister bounced back from his speedy charge
in the Derby.  ‘Ready to Run’  “At this junction, I let the horse tell us if he’s ready
to run,” Zayat said. “He probably wants redemption.”  Even though his horses have never won the Derby, Preakness
or Belmont Stakes, Zayat’s stables have been among the top five
in earnings since 2007. In 2008, it topped the list with 115
wins in 740 starts for $6.9 million. This year, Zayat is ranked
third with 23 wins in 90 starts and $1.6 million in earnings.  Zayat, 49, was the former owner of Al Ahram Beverage Co.,
which packaged and sold beer, wine, non-alcoholic drinks and
soft drinks in the  Middle East . He privatized  Egypt ’s national
brewery into the largest beverage manufacturer and distributor
in the Middle East before selling it to Heineken International
for $280 million.  Today, he is the largest shareholder in Misr Glass
Manufacturing, the biggest producer of glass containers in Egypt,
as well as running his stables with 125 horses.  Baffert Honor  Zayat purchased Bodemeister for $260,000 as a yearling at
the Keeneland, Kentucky, sales. In naming the colt, he wanted to
pay tribute to his trainer  Bob Baffert , who had always refused
offers to name the horses after his family, fearing it would
jinx them. He agreed to allow Zayat to name the horse after his
7-year-old son, Bode.  Zayat sold a minority share in Bodemeister to Michel and
Tiffany Moreno, owners of Southern Equine Stables, who set their
sights on the horse after he won the Arkansas Derby by 9 1/2
lengths.  “I got an incredible price that one could not say no to,”
Zayat said, declining to disclose it. “By selling a minority
interest, the colt got to stay under my management, my trainer,
my stables.”  Zayat said he got many offers for the colt and favored
Moreno because he has high-quality broodmares for Bodemeister
when the colt retires from racing.  In establishing his stables, Moreno, the chief executive
officer of Dynamic Service International LLC of Lafayette,
 Louisiana , paid $14 million for Broodmare of the Year Better
Than Honour, who produced Belmont Stakes winners Jazil (2006)
and Rags to Riches (2007).  “It’s the dream of any horse owner to see the progeny of
his colt go on,” Zayat said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  