-- Greek Euro Exit Would Risk Asia Crisis-Style Rout, Zeti Says
-- B y   H a s l i n d a   A m i n   a n d   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2012-05-17T05:25:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-17/zeti-says-greek-euro-exit-would-have-unimaginable-consequences.html
A Greek exit from the euro could
cause contagion comparable to the Asian financial crisis,
according to  Malaysia ’s central bank Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz,
who had first-hand experience of that turmoil.  “The worst-case scenario is what we saw in  Asia ,” Zeti,
64, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television in Istanbul
yesterday. “When one economy collapses, then the market usually
moves on to focus on the next one, then there will be a
contagion that will affect different countries that probably
don’t deserve those kinds of consequences.”  European leaders are now openly talking about a possible
Greek euro exit after attempts to form a ruling coalition in
Athens broke down on May 15. The debt crisis in the region sent
 Spain ’s 10-year bond to a five-month high of 6.5 percent
yesterday and Italy’s 10-year bond yield rose to as much as 6
percent, the highest since Jan. 30.  “The consequences for that to happen I believe will be
unimaginable for  Europe , therefore a solution has to be found to
address the situation,” Zeti said. “I believe that such a
solution can be found.”  Zeti was assistant central bank governor responsible for
economics, reserves management, money market and foreign
exchange operations when  Thailand  devalued the baht on July 2,
1997. The ringgit fell 89 percent in the next six months as
regional currencies plunged and investors fled the region, 
pushing Asian economies into recession and prompting Thailand, 
 Indonesia  and South Korea to turn to International Monetary Fund
bailouts. It was Zeti who announced Malaysia’s capital controls 
in 1998 as acting governor, drawing the ire of the IMF.  First Woman  Zeti, the first Malaysian woman to become central bank
governor, obtained a doctorate in economics from the  University
of Pennsylvania  in 1978, with a thesis focusing on international
capital flows and its implications for macroeconomic policies.  Malaysia will stick to its official economic forecast for a
4 percent to 5 percent expansion this year as it has already
priced in prospects of “significantly” lower export growth,
the governor said. Inflation in Malaysia is moderating and the
only risk is commodity prices, she said.  Interest rates  aren’t restricting borrowing activities and
are supporting overall growth, Zeti said. “At this point in
time, I believe that unless inflation does begin to again rise,
it does not merit consideration of raising rates.”  Bank Negara Malaysia  kept the  benchmark overnight policy
rate  unchanged at 3 percent for a sixth straight meeting on May
11. The country joined Indonesia and  South Korea  in holding
borrowing costs steady this month to bolster growth as Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis threatens to escalate.  Boosting Growth  Measures to prevent a Greek departure from the common
currency should also be accompanied by a plan to boost growth in
the region, Zeti said. “Structural adjustments” being imposed
in  Greece  and on other economies such as fiscal austerity need
to be done gradually, she said.  Malaysia is increasing spending on roads and railways to
sustain growth of as much as 5 percent this year, ahead of a
nationwide election that must be held by early 2013. Prime
Minister Najib Razak has also raised civil-servant salaries and
pensions, waived school fees and boosted handouts for the poor.  The $238 billion economy expanded 5.2 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, slowing from a 5.8 percent pace in
the previous three months.  Bank Negara  is due to release first-
quarter gross domestic product data on May 23.  Signs of weakening demand for Asian goods have emerged,
with Malaysia, Thailand and the Philippines all reporting export
declines. Malaysia’s overseas sales unexpectedly fell in March
as manufacturers such as Unisem (M) Bhd. and  Malaysian Pacific
Industries Bhd. (MPI)  shipped fewer electrical and electronics
products, bolstering the case for the central bank to hold off
from interest-rate increases.  The central bank predicted in March inflation may slow to a
range of 2.5 percent to 3 percent this year from 3.2 percent in
2011. Price gains are easing and growth is within expectations,
Zeti said May 2, adding that policy makers shouldn’t rush to
tighten their monetary stance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haslinda Amin in Singapore at 
 hamin1@bloomberg.net ;
Elffie Chew in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  