-- 
‘Extreme Couponing’ Shoppers Pose Loyalty Test

-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 
2011-09-28T18:10:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/-extreme-couponing-tv-copycat-shoppers-pose-loyalty-test-for-stores-tech.html
Extreme couponing, a consumer trend
spurred on by the reality TV series of the same name, may make
deal-chasing U.S. shoppers less loyal to retailers from  Kroger
Co. (KR)  to  Staples Inc. (SPLS)   In the first half of this year, U.S. consumers redeemed
1.75 billion coupons for a savings of $2 billion, according to
NCH Marketing Services. That’s an 18 percent increase from the
same period in 2009, when packaged goods companies began
stepping up discounts to spur demand, the Deerfield, Illinois-
based firm said.  Many consumers are taking their cues from blogs, websites
and “Extreme Couponing,” which features regular folks sharing
their couponing exploits and starts its second season tonight.  “The main concern to manufacturers and retailers is that
they are going to essentially throw away money to one-time
buyers and not get a return on that,” said Debra Miller
Arbesman, a senior associate at Compete Pulse, a Boston-based
marketing firm. “They want to find ways to keep customers loyal
so they aren’t wasting their time.”  Packaged goods companies and retailers typically hand out
more coupons during hard times. Last year, businesses issued a
record $332 billion worth, according to NCH Marketing Services.  The deals come in all shapes and sizes. Staples is giving
away a $20 Visa gift card to customers who buy two Hewlett-
Packard printer cartridges. Kroger is offering Tyson chicken for
99 cents a pound and $3 off Schick razors. Shoppers who buy any
PC, Macintosh or tablet computer at Best Buy Co., the world’s
largest consumer electronics retailer, get a year’s worth of
Geek Squad tech support for $99.99.  Coupon Aggregation  There is one big difference this time around, though.
Coupon aggregation sites such as  shopathome.com  and Groupon have
proliferated, making it easier for consumers to find and compare
deals on everything from spaghetti sauce to bridesmaid’s
dresses. The debut of the “Extreme Couponing” series this year
on the TLC cable channel helped energize the bargain-hunting
fervor.  April Blum, a 38-year-old mother of eight from Erie,
 Pennsylvania , who will appear on the Season 2 premiere of
 “Extreme Couponing,”  said she has saved $50,000 since she
began hunting deals in February 2009.  “My husband is a fire-safety officer and we were
struggling to make ends meet,” Blum said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “Then I just started stockpiling stuff and
saw how easy it could be.”  15 Million Visits  Since the “Extreme Couponing” debut, traffic to
shopathome.com has more than doubled to 15 million visits a
month, according to founder Marc Braunstein.  “The show created an awareness about coupons and made
people see that, with a little effort, they could save a lot,”
Braunstein said in a telephone interview. “I think it helped
bring a lot of people to shopathome.com.”  Blum is not loyal to any particular stores; she peruses
deals blogs and shops wherever the bargains are, she said.  “Basically I just spend time surfing those and finding the
best deals,” she said. “That’s how I save so much, by using
those to decide where I go that week.”  Kroger is among the chains maneuvering to prevent deal-
chasing consumers from decamping to rivals. One way is to offer
coupons as part of existing loyalty programs, said Keith Dailey,
a spokesman for the Cincinnati-based grocery chain.  For example, Kroger’s Plus Card offers shoppers savings of
up to $1 off a gallon of gasoline if they stick with the grocer.  “So-called extreme couponers are something that we’re
watching,” Dailey said in a phone interview.  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS) , the largest provider of  prescription
drugs  in the U.S., requires customers to spend cash-back rewards
on a future purchase at a CVS location, ensuring they’ll return,
Arbesman says.  Woonsocket, Rhode Island-based CVS is relying on its
 loyalty program  to drive “profitable” sales, Chief Executive
Officer Larry Merlo said in an August earnings call.  “Even with more people abusing the system, there won’t be
a pull-back from the store side on offering coupons,” said
shopathome.com founder Braunstein. “People will avoid stores
that don’t offer deals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashley Lutz in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  