-- 
T-Mobile Joins Samsung in Court Bid to Bar Apple Blocking of Device Sales

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-09-28T23:41:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/t-mobile-joins-samsung-in-court-bid-to-bar-apple-blocking-of-device-sales.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile USA
Inc. joined Samsung Electronics Co. in fighting a lawsuit filed
by Apple Inc., claiming consumers will be hurt if Apple is
granted an order blocking the sale of Samsung products.  The iPad maker, in its lawsuit filed in federal court in
 San Jose ,  California , seeks an order blocking Samsung from
selling its Galaxy line of mobile devices products that it
claims violate Apple patents. T-Mobile isn’t a defendant.  In a court filing today, T-Mobile argues that its
smartphones include devices manufactured by Samsung, and that
there are “public interest considerations” in Apple’s attempt
to block sales of Samsung’s S 4G smartphone and Galaxy Tab 10.1
tablet “in the midst of the critical  holiday shopping season .”  “The timing of such an injunction on two popular consumer
products that will help anchor its 2011 holiday sales would
unnecessarily harm T-Mobile and thousands of U.S. consumers,”
T-Mobile said in the filing. Money damages would remedy any harm
Apple is able to prove between now and trial in the case,
scheduled for July, T-Mobile said.  The legal battle between Apple and rival smartphone makers
is intensifying as an increasing number of consumers use smart
phones and wireless handsets to surf the Web, play games and
download music and videos. Samsung and Apple have been involved
in lawsuits around the globe since Apple in April claimed in the
San Jose lawsuit that the Korean company’s Galaxy devices copied
the iPhone and iPad.  Samsung, the world’s second-largest maker of mobile phones,
has filed similar patent infringement suits against Cupertino,
California-based Apple in the Netherlands.  “It’s no coincidence that Samsung’s latest products look a
lot like the iPhone and iPad, from the shape of the hardware to
the user interface and even the packaging,” Apple spokeswoman
 Kristin Huguet  said in an interview. “This kind of blatant
copying is wrong, and we need to protect Apple’s intellectual
property when companies steal our ideas.”  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics Co., 11-1846,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in San Francisco at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  