-- 
A&O Hedge Fund Officers Sentenced to Total 105 Years in Prison for Fraud

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-28T21:25:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/a-o-resource-management-executives-sentenced-to-prison-for-fraud.html
Two executives of hedge fund A&O
Resource Management Ltd. were sentenced to decades in prison for
their roles in a $100 million life-settlement fraud scheme,
federal prosecutors said.  Adley H. Abdulwahab, a part-owner of A&O, was sentenced
today in federal court in Richmond,  Virginia  to 60 years in
prison, while the firm’s co-founder Christian Allmendinger got a
45-year term yesterday, according to a statement from the U.S.
Justice Department.  The men sold “bonded life settlements” guaranteeing
returns of 10 percent to 20 percent, according to the
indictment. They misrepresented their qualifications and past
successes while spending investor money on personal expenses
including multimillion-dollar homes, luxury cars and a 15-carat
diamond ring, prosecutors said.  “The victims of A&O’s scam were looking for a conservative
investment, and they were manipulated into believing A&O was a
safe, secure, no-risk investment,” U.S. Attorney Neil MacBride
in Alexandria, Virginia, said in the statement. “It was all a
big, fat lie; A&O was a sham, a financial house of cards waiting
to collapse.”  The two Houston men were charged last year in an 18-count
indictment alleging conspiracy, mail fraud,  securities fraud  and
 money laundering  in a scheme that victimized more than 800
investors in the U.S. and  Canada .  Eighteen Counts  Allmendinger, 40, was found guilty on seven counts in
March. Abdulwahab, 36, was convicted of all 18 counts after a
trial in June.  A&O used money from investors in 37 states to invest in
life insurance policies, prosecutors said. The insured person
gets cash, while the investor pays the premiums to maintain the
policy and collects the death benefit when the insured dies.  A&O bought bonds that failed to deliver the promised
returns, according to investigators. There weren’t enough bonds
or underlying life insurance policies to pay off investors,
investigators said.  The case is U.S. v. Allmendinger, 3:10-cr-00248, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 