-- 
Abu Dhabi’s Taqa Wins Dismissal of U.S. Lawsuit by Former CEO Barker-Homek

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-09-28T22:58:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/abu-dhabi-s-taqa-wins-dismissal-of-u-s-lawsuit-by-ex-ceo-1-.html
Abu Dhabi National Energy Co. (TAQA)  won
dismissal of a lawsuit brought by former Chief Executive Officer
Peter Barker-Homek who claimed he was forced out of the state-
owned energy firm known as Taqa after complaining about fraud.  Barker-Homek, who filed the suit last year in federal court
in  Detroit , said he was told to “keep quiet,” after he “tried
to put a stop to the kickbacks, bribery, accounting fraud and
corruption,” according to his complaint. He also sued Taqa
General Manager Carl Sheldon, claiming Sheldon forced him to
sign a severance agreement in 2009.  Barker-Homek can’t sue Taqa or Sheldon in Michigan despite
his claims that fraud occurred in the state, U.S. District Court
Judge John Corbett O’Meara said today in a 16-page decision
dismissing the suit. O’Meara said he wasn’t “persuaded” of a
 Michigan  connection.  “Plaintiff’s breach of contract, retaliation, and various
tort claims do not have a ‘substantial connection’ with Taqa’s
contacts with Michigan,” O’Meara wrote. As to the claims
against Sheldon, “Michigan’s interest in this case is slim to
non-existent, given that neither plaintiff nor Sheldon are
Michigan citizens and the acts or injuries alleged did not occur
here.”  “We disagree with the court’s decision and we’re going to
appeal,” A. Sasha Frid, Barker-Homek’s attorney, said in a
phone interview.  Alleged Wrongdoing  Barker-Homek contended that fraud occurred at Taqa New
World Inc., a subsidiary based in Michigan, and claimed his
firing violated Michigan law against dismissing employees who
highlight alleged wrongdoing within a company.  Barker-Homek “overstated his and Taqa’s contacts with
Michigan,” and hadn’t proved Taqa’s control over the state
affiliate, O’Meara said.  Taqa New World couldn’t be sued over the contract because
it wasn’t a party in to his employment agreement with the  Abu
Dhabi  parent, O’Meara said. The court couldn’t substitute the
affiliate for Taqa so Barker-Homek “may pursue his claims in
the  United States ,” O’Meara wrote. “Plaintiff’s recourse is to
pursue his claims against Taqa in Abu Dhabi, as set forth in his
employment agreement.”  The case is Barker-Homek v. Abu Dhabi National Energy
Company PJSC, 2:10-cv-13448, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 