-- 
Abu Dhabi’s Borealis Seeks Chemicals Acquisitions, CEO Says

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-09-28T14:33:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/abu-dhabi-s-borealis-seeks-chemicals-acquisitions-ceo-says-1-.html
Borealis AG, a chemicals and
plastics maker that’s majority-owned by an  Abu Dhabi  investment
fund, wants to buy assets to complement its existing businesses,
Chief Executive Officer Mark Garrett said.  The company was in talks over assets four or five months
ago before pulling out due to cost considerations, Garrett told
reporters in Abu Dhabi today. Falling share prices globally are
making “pricing a lot more interesting” now, he said.  “There’s an opportunity” in the market, Garrett said,
adding that companies it had approached often sought a premium.
Borealis has no deals on the table, he said.  Borealis is 64 percent-owned by Abu Dhabi’s International
Petroleum Investment Co., with the rest held by  OMV AG (OMV) , an
Austrian refiner and oil and gas producer. OMV said last week it
plans to sell some refining and marketing assets over the next
two years and had no plans to sell its stake in Borealis.  IPIC Managing Director Khadem Abdulla Al-Qubaisi said last
year the investor wanted to acquire businesses through Borealis.
IPIC secured a majority stake this year in  Cia Espanola de
Petroleos SA (CEP) , Spain’s second-biggest oil producer, and it bought
Nova Chemicals Corp. of Canada in 2009.  Borealis would like to acquire olefin and polyolefin assets
or ammonia and urea businesses, Garret said. Olefins are derived
from hydrocarbons like crude oil. Ammonia and urea can be used
in fertilizers.  Garrett said the company has a strong production and
marketing presence in Asia through its Borouge unit, which makes
plastics for the production of pipes. Chemical companies in
 Europe  and  North America  are consolidating, he said, declining
to indicate where Borealis may seek acquisitions.  European demand for chemicals has slowed due to concern
that government debt may be excessive and crimp economic growth,
Garrett said. Demand in  China  was strong in July and September,
with a slowdown in August, and should improve over the rest of
the year, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  on   sev@bloomberg.net . 