-- 
Madoff Trustee Doubles Investor-Loss Estimate From Judge’s Ruling on Mets

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-09-29T20:51:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/madoff-trustee-will-seek-appeal-of-rakoff-order-lawyer-says.html
The liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s
bankrupt firm more than doubled his estimate of how much
investors may lose if he can’t overturn a judge’s ruling that
dismissed much of his $1 billion claim against the owners of the
 New York Mets .  Trustee Irving Picard said today that the ruling cut his
potential recovery from clawback suits by at least $2.7 billion,
and placed the recovery of another $3.5 billion “in question,”
according to a statement from his spokeswoman, Amanda Remus.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff this week cut to about
$386 million the $1 billion demanded by Picard from the Major
League Baseball team owners,  Fred Wilpon  and Saul Katz, saying
the trustee could only try to take back two years of withdrawals
from the Ponzi scheme, instead of six.  A lawyer for Picard said yesterday that the two-year rule
would cost the trustee “about” $3 billion on all clawback
suits. Another aspect of Rakoff’s ruling relating to so-called
preference payments jeopardized another $3.5 billion of
recoveries, according to today’s statement.  Picard will ask Rakoff to approve an appeal of his ruling
to the federal appeals court in  New York . The appeals court will
then decide whether to review the ruling. Picard, who got a
favorable ruling from the appeals court on his formula for
compensating investors who lost money, may lose this time.  Permission to Appeal  “I’m not sure Judge Rakoff will give Picard permission to
appeal,” said Jonathan Landers of Milberg LLP, which represents
investors in more than 25 so-called clawback lawsuits brought by
Picard, including some awaiting Rakoff’s attention. “If he
does, I expect him to be affirmed by the appeals court.”  An appeal could cause the Madoff firm’s liquidation to
“grind to a halt for a year or longer,” Landers said.  The trustee said today his first payments to investors
totaling $272 million will be delayed because of Rakoff’s
ruling. The checks were due to be issued by Sept. 30, almost
three years after the  Ponzi scheme  collapsed. He didn’t say how
long the delay would last.  Rakoff set a trial date of March 19 for the trustee’s case
against the Mets owners, after quizzing both sides yesterday on
their plans to bring in expert witnesses. He said he was
“skeptical” about the trustee’s desire to bring in an expert
on investors’ fiduciary duties -- Picard based his claims for
the $1 billion on allegations the Mets owners failed in their
duty to probe Madoff’s fraud despite so-called red flags that
warned of irregularities.  Inherent Duty  Rakoff, who said in his ruling, “A securities investor has
no inherent duty to inquire about his stockbroker,” told
Sheehan the subject was “a matter of law,” not “a matter for
experts.” He was also skeptical of listening to an expert on
red flags, whom Sheehan proposed bringing, he said.  “I’m inherently skeptical of all experts,” Rakoff said.  Picard said in July he has raised more than $8.6 billion
for Madoff investors who lost money, or almost half of the $17.3
billion in principal lost by Madoff customers who filed claims.
That includes more than $5 billion tied up in court challenges.  Rakoff set a high standard of proof for the trustee to take
back the $700 million in principal he sought from the Mets
owners, even if he wins his appeal. Rakoff ruled that Picard
must prove the Wilpon group willfully blinded themselves to
evidence of Madoff’s fraud. Rakoff said in his decision that the
standard was lower for claiming fictitious profits.  Rakoff’s ruling that the trustee can only take back two
years of withdrawals was good news for investors facing so-
called clawback suits, from the Mets owners’ group to
individuals who took more money out of the Ponzi scheme than
they put in.  Good News  “For our clients this is very good news, because it knocks
the exposure to payments within two years” of the bankruptcy
filing by Madoff’s firm in 2008, Jonathan Landers of Milberg LLP
said in a phone interview before the hearing yesterday. He is
representing investors in more than 25 so-called clawback
lawsuits brought by Picard, including some awaiting Rakoff’s
attention.  “Five thousand innocent victims of Mr. Picard’s
persecution will sleep well tonight for the first time in 2 1/2
years,” Helen Chaitman, a lawyer who represents Madoff
investors, said of Rakoff’s ruling in an e-mailed statement.  The trustee’s pending appeal is “a lesson” for those
investors, said Nancy Rapoport, a bankruptcy-law professor at
the University of  Nevada ,  Las Vegas .  “If something looks too good to be true, investigate
further,” she said in an e-mail.  At the hearing, Rakoff directed both sides to file
arguments on how Picard should determine how much of the money
the Mets owners withdrew was principal and how much profit.  Rakoff also set deadlines for pretrial evidence exchange in
the case and fixed a new trial date. The judge said it was fine
for Picard to reserve his right to amend his lawsuit against the
Mets owners, as Sheehan requested, though it didn’t mean he
would consent.  “The whole trial will go differently if the second circuit
rules in our favor,” Sheehan told reporters.  The case is: Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  