-- 
Madoff Trustee Can Only Seek $386 Million From New York Mets, Judge Says

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-09-28T16:27:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/madoff-trustee-can-only-seek-386m-from-mets.html
The trustee liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s firm “appears” to be able to seek about $386 million
from the owners of the  New York  Mets, a  Manhattan  federal judge
said today in a court filing.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff dismissed much of the
billion-dollar claim by the trustee,  Irving Picard , in a ruling
yesterday. Rakoff clarified that decision in an order today. The
defendants include Sterling Equities Inc. partners  Fred Wilpon 
and Saul Katz.  “The most that the trustee can recover from the defendants
is the total of all transfers made during two-year period prior
to the filing of the bankruptcy petition, which, according to
the amended complaint, appears to be approximately $386
million,” Rakoff said in the order today.  Rakoff’s order was the first time the judge has said about
how much money Picard can expect to try to recover, after the
judge dismissed nine of 11 counts and established criteria for
Picard to prove his case.  Rakoff said it remains an open question how much of that
amount is fictitious profit and how much returned principal,
saying he’ll decide the issue after both sides file briefs.  Rakoff said yesterday that Picard must show the Mets owners
blinded themselves to knowledge of Madoff’s fraud in order to
claim any of the principal that was returned to them in the two
years before Madoff’s former firm filed for bankruptcy in late
2008. He set an easier standard for recovering profits.  The bankruptcy court case is Picard v. Katz, 1:10-ap-05287,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The district court case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-
03605, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  