-- 
Madoff Investors Gain From Rakoff’s Mets Ruling, Lawyers Say

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-09-28T17:54:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/madoff-investors-gain-from-rakoff-s-mets-ruling-lawyers-say.html
Bernard Madoff ’s investors may
benefit from a judge’s ruling that New York Mets owners  Fred Wilpon  and Saul Katz may have to pay no more than two years of
profit and principal to the liquidator of the con man’s firm,
lawyers for some Madoff investors said.  Ruling yesterday on Madoff trustee  Irving Picard ’s demand
for $1 billion from the Major League Baseball team owners, U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff dismissed nine of 11 counts in the
case. Today, he indicated that Picard probably can’t recover
more than about $380 million. Picard sought 25 years of
transfers, claiming the Mets owners failed to probe Madoff’s
fraud.  “For our clients this is very good news, because it knocks
the exposure to payments within two years” of the bankruptcy
filing by Madoff’s firm in 2008, Jonathan Landers of Milberg LLP
said in a phone interview. He is representing investors in more
than 25 so-called clawback lawsuits brought by Picard, including
some awaiting Rakoff’s attention.  Rakoff said in his ruling that Picard “simply” had to
prove that investors didn’t give back “fair value” in
withdrawing profits. That part of the decision “gives investors
a possible defense” against the two-year clawbacks, Landers
said.  “Five thousand innocent victims of Mr. Picard’s
persecution will sleep well tonight for the first time in 2 1/2
years,” Helen Chaitman, a lawyer who represents Madoff
investors, said of Rakoff’s ruling in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Open Question’  Rakoff said in an order published today that while it
“appears” that the most Picard can take from the Mets owners
is $386 million, “it remains an open question” whether he
should be limited to two years of transfers. Rakoff told lawyers
for both sides to brief him on the issue at a hearing set for 3
p.m.  New York  time in  Manhattan .  Allowing Picard to reach back longer than two years to claw
back profits would “chill” Madoff investors, said Chip Bowles,
a bankruptcy lawyer at Greenebaum Doll & McDonald PLLC in
Louisville,  Kentucky , who isn’t involved in the case.  “If you don’t give value, you’re going to have to give all
the profits back,” Bowles said. “The only way you give value
is by putting in an equal amount of principal.”  The Mets owners said yesterday in a statement they were
pleased with Rakoff’s ruling. For Picard, who has filed about
1,000 suits, the decision may mean he gets much less than the
$100 billion he is seeking to compensate investors who took less
money out of the  Ponzi scheme  than they put in.  Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, said the trustee would
comment after “a thorough evaluation” of the ruling.  The district court case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 