-- 
Thai Manufacturing Output Rises More Than Estimated on Autos

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-09-28T04:41:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/thai-manufacturing-output-rises-more-than-estimated-on-autos-1-.html
Thailand’s industrial output rose
more than estimated in August as demand for autos recovered
following the March earthquake in  Japan , the Southeast Asian
nation’s biggest trading partner.  The industrial production index rose 7 percent from a year
earlier, the Office of Industrial Economics said in a statement
today, compared with a revised 0.7 percent contraction in July.
The median of 12 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was for a
4 percent increase.  Thai exports, which account for about 60 percent of the
economy, have so far weathered risks from a faltering global
recovery, with shipments surging 31 percent to a record $21.6
billion last month. Sustaining that rate of growth may be
difficult as  Europe ’s debt crisis and a struggling U.S. economy
dim the prospects for Asia-Pacific exporters.  “The outlook is still gloomy,”  Pimonwan Mahujchariyawong ,
an economist at Kasikorn Research Co. in Bangkok, said before
today’s report. “Problems in the U.S. and Europe will lead to
weak demand and will eventually affect our sales and production
later this year.”  The Bank of Thailand may cut its economic growth
projections as the global recovery falters, Governor Prasarn
Trairatvorakul said on Sept. 24.  Auto Output  Auto production by companies including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) 
and Ford Motor Co. jumped 15.5 percent in August as carmakers
responded to pent-up demand, the state agency said. Total annual
production is forecast at 1.8 million units, including expected
domestic sales of 900,000 units, it said.  Hard-disk drive production increased 17.3 percent last
month, boosted by new products, and rubber output gained 13.9
percent on demand from local automakers and buyers in  China , the
Office of Industrial Economics said.  Thai exports are expected to expand about 20 percent this
year, surpassing an earlier target of 15 percent, the Commerce
Ministry said Sept. 22. Shipments may increase by 15 percent
next year, Commerce Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said today.  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra has pledged to boost the
daily  minimum wage  to 300 baht ($10), almost double the current
level in some parts of the country. The Cabinet this month
approved wage and salary increases for government officials as
well as tax incentives for first-time buyers of homes and cars
to help bolster consumption.  The Federation of Thai Capital Market Organizations, a six-
member group that includes the Stock Exchange of  Thailand ,
earlier this week urged the government to review the planned
wage increase because of concern it would hurt exports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net  