-- 
Rights Groups Say Alabama Immigration Laws Should Stay on Hold

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   L a u r e n c e   V i e l e   D a v i d s o n
-- 
2011-09-30T04:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/alabama-law-on-undocumented-workers-hiring-barred-in-part-by-u-s-judge.html
A coalition of civil rights groups
said new  Alabama  immigration laws cleared for enforcement by a
U.S. judge should be blocked until a federal appeals court has
reviewed legal challenges.  The  American Civil Liberties Union , Southern Poverty Law
Center and other groups asked U.S. District Judge Sharon Lovelace Blackburn in Birmingham, Alabama, for an order staying
application of those laws she deemed enforcible in a trio of
Sept. 28 rulings, while the organizations pursue an appeal.  “Enjoining those provisions pending appeal is appropriate
in order to maintain the status quo,” the groups said in papers
filed yesterday.  Blackburn’s decision allows Alabama authorities to question
the status of people detained or arrested, upon reasonable
suspicion they’re in the U.S. illegally, and criminalizes an
illegal resident’s failure to carry alien-registration papers.  Enforcement of the provisions will cause irreparable harm
to people who have filed suit challenging the legislation signed
into law by Alabama Governor Robert Bentley, the groups said in
papers filed at the U.S. court in Birmingham yesterday.  In a separate filing, the organizations said they are
asking a federal appeals court in Atlanta to review Blackburn’s
decision.  The U.S.  Justice Department , which argued that only the
federal government is authorized to set immigration policy, is
reviewing Blackburn’s ruling, Xochitl Hinojosa, a spokeswoman,
said in an e-mail.  Federal Law  “We will continue to evaluate state immigration-related
laws and will not hesitate to bring suit if, in fact, a state
creates its own immigration policy or enforces state laws in a
manner that interferes with federal immigration law,” she said.  A San Francisco-based federal appeals court panel in April
blocked enforcement of similar measures signed into law by
 Arizona  Governor Jan Brewer. The state has petitioned the U.S.
Supreme Court for review of that ruling.  Richard Samp, a lawyer for the Washington Legal Foundation,
filed a non-party brief with the San Francisco panel on behalf
of four members of Congress and four organizations supporting
the Arizona law. In a phone interview yesterday, he said
Blackburn’s decisions were in accord with recent high court
precedent.  ‘Invited’ Assistance  “There’s no indication that Congress intended to do what’s
called ‘occupy the field’ and keep all state regulation out,”
Samp said. “Congress has, on numerous occasions, invited
assistance from the states.”  Cleveland lawyer David W. Leopold, a past-president of the
American Immigration Lawyers Association, disagreed. The AILA
filed a friend of the court brief in the Arizona dispute while
Leopold was the group’s leader.  “The  Supreme Court  has always recognized that immigration
is about national security, it’s about who controls the
borders,” he said by phone yesterday. “That’s the plenary
authority of the Congress.”  Nothing in the federal Immigration and Nationality Act
“expressly preempts states from legislating on the issue of
verification of an individual’s citizenship and immigration
status,” Blackburn said in her 115-page ruling addressing the
U.S. Justice Department challenge.  That provision was one she had said “concerned her” often
during a hearing last month, saying “it might lead to
lawsuits.”  Church Leaders  Bentley, a first-term Republican, signed the immigration
measure into law on June 9. After the U.S. government, church
leaders and civil rights groups sued to block it, Blackburn
issued a provisional order barring its enforcement on Aug. 29,
two days before it was scheduled to take effect.  The governor, in a  statement  posted on his website, called
the rulings a “victory” for Alabama. “The court agreed with
us on a majority of the provisions that were challenged,” he
said.  The Beason-Hammon Alabama Taxpayer and Citizen Protection
Act, named in part for its sponsors, Senator Scott Beason of
Gardendale and Representative Micky Hammon of Decatur, includes
provisions requiring public schools to collect data on the
enrollment of children of unlawful residents and criminalizing
the failure of illegal immigrants to complete or carry alien
registration documents.  Blackburn’s ruling allows Alabama to enforce that part of
the law making failure to carry documentation a misdemeanor, as
well as the school data portion of the law and a provision
enabling police to take drivers arrested without a valid license
before a magistrate for determination of their citizenship.  Unlicensed Drivers  Unlicensed drivers found to be in the U.S. illegally can
then be detained for prosecution or turned over to federal
immigration agents.  The judge also let stand a provision making it a felony for
illegal aliens to enter into business transactions with the
state or any of its political subdivisions.  Episcopal Bishop Henry Parsley is a member of one of four
Christian groups that sued the state in a separate case, saying
the law barred their mission to feed and transport the needy.
The Sept. 28 decision blocks the state from criminalizing such
activities.  The group claims a win. By temporarily stopping enforcement
of the law’s provision making it illegal to transport or house
an undocumented immigrant, the ruling gave the clergy what they
sought, said Parsley’s lawyer Augusta Dowd.  “We can conduct our Christian ministries without
interference from the state,” Parsley’s attorney, Augusta Dowd,
said in a phone interview.  Different Issues  Blackburn issued separate rulings in each of the challenges
to the legislation. While her rulings in the church leaders’
case closely tracked those in the U.S. lawsuit decision, the
judge faced different issues in a case pressed by lawyers from
the ACLU and the Southern Poverty Law Center.  She blocked a state law provision barring those who are in
the U.S. illegally from enrolling in public colleges or being
eligible for scholarships and financial aid and requiring any
aliens enrolled to have lawful permanent resident status or an
appropriate visa.  “I think that’s a significant ruling,” ACLU attorney Lee Gelernt said in a telephone interview.  “The court acknowledged candidly that in upholding several
of the provisions, her decision was in square conflict with
those of several other courts,” Gelernt said. “The court also
did not discount the very real harms that people in Alabama will
suffer as a result of the law.”  Patchwork of Laws  “Setting immigration policy and enforcing immigration laws
is a national responsibility that cannot be addressed through a
patchwork of state immigration laws,” U.S. Attorney General
Eric Holder said in an Aug. 1 statement when the federal
government sued Alabama.  Defending the measure in court filings, Alabama argued that
the U.S. sought an unprecedented application of the doctrine of
preemption, to prevent the state from legislating upon what the
U.S. asserts is a strictly federal matter.  “Lawsuits have been filed in every state that has passed a
strong immigration law,” Bentley said in an Aug. 1 statement e-
mailed to Bloomberg News.  ‘Continue Fighting’  “The federal government did not do what it was supposed to
do to enforce laws against illegal immigration,” the governor
said. “That is why I campaigned on the need for a strong
immigration law in Alabama. The legislature passed that law and
I signed it. I will continue fighting at every turn to make sure
we have a strong immigration law in Alabama.”  Samp, the Washington Legal Foundation lawyer, said from a
state perspective, the Sept. 28 split rulings could be deemed a
victory because Blackburn let portions of the law stand, while
enforcement of Arizona’s law remains barred.  “I would think immigration enforcement is a bigger issue
in border states than in other states, but that’s not to say its
unecesaary in other states,” Samp said.  Leopold, the former immigration lawyers association
president, said there is a “terrible void” in U.S. immigration
policy, adding that the solution should come from congress, not
from states acting individually.  “If every state had its own immigration policy, there
would be no need for a federal government,” he said. “We
wouldn’t need a  United States , and in fact, there wouldn’t be a
United States.”  Blackburn consolidated the three lawsuits before hearing
argument Aug. 24 on the challenges brought by the U.S., church
leaders and the ACLU. She dissolved the consolidation order to
ease appellate review two days after issuing her Aug. 29 ruling
blocking enforcement of the measure.  The cases are Hispanic Interest Coalition of Alabama v.
Bentley, 5:11-cv-2484, Parsley v. Bentley, 5:11-cv-2736, and
U.S. v. Bentley, 5:11-cv-2746, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Laurence Viele Davidson in Atlanta at 
 lviele@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 