-- 
SP Setia Gets Offer in Malaysia’s Biggest Real Estate Takeover in 20 Years

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 
2011-09-28T07:09:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/malaysian-developer-sp-setia-gets-takeover-offer-from-permodalan.html
SP Setia Bhd. (SPSB) ,  Malaysia ’s biggest
listed developer by sales, said shareholder Permodalan Nasional
Bhd. made an offer to take over the company in the country’s
largest property acquisition in at least two decades.  Permodalan or PNB, Malaysia’s largest state asset manager,
offered 3.90 ringgit apiece for the rest of the shares it
doesn’t already own, Maybank Investment Bank Bhd. said in an e-
mailed statement today. The all-cash bid values SP Setia at 6.9
billion ringgit ($2.2 billion). The stock surged 13 percent to
3.50 ringgit yesterday, the most since 1998, before being
suspended from trading today.  The offer represents a premium of 21.5 percent above SP
Setia’s five-day volume-weighted average price of 3.21 ringgit,
said Maybank, which is acting for PNB. This compares with an
average premium of 34 percent for 17 property deals of more than
$500 million in  Southeast Asia  in the past five years, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “If it’s privatized, it would imply that Permodalan might
do some internal consolidation and put all their property assets
under one entity,” said  Jason Chong , who helps manage about $1
billion as chief investment officer at Manulife Asset Management
(Malaysia) Sdn. in Kuala Lumpur. They also need to “ensure that
core management is still around.”  The offer follows PNB’s 2009 merger of three developers
after buying them out. Kuala Lumpur-based SP Setia will give PNB,
which manages about 150 billion ringgit of assets, access to
projects in Malaysia, Australia and  Vietnam .  Listing Status  PNB intends to maintain the listing status of SP Setia,
according the bank. If the takeover results in the public
shareholding spread being less than 25 percent, the asset
manager will explore options to rectify the spread, Maybank said.
SP Setia Chief Executive Officer Liew Kee Sin owns 11.3 percent
of the company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It is not in PNB’s interest to have SP Setia taken
private,” said Nik Hazim Nik Mohamed, who helps manage 2.2
billion ringgit of funds in  Kuala Lumpur  at Kenanga Investors
Bhd., which holds SP Setia shares. “They do not want to kill an
entrepreneur.”  SP Setia had sales of 2.3 billion ringgit in the first 10
months of its current financial year that ends in October, and
has a target of 3 billion ringgit, the company said on Sept. 22.
The developer posted a 4.6 percent growth in net income to 91.2
million ringgit in the third quarter ended July 31.  Raised Stake  The asset manager bought Island & Peninsular Bhd. for 670.5
million ringgit and Petaling Garden Bhd. for 477 million ringgit
in 2007. It took over Pelangi Bhd. two years earlier, and said
at the time that it was seeking ways to “maximize” returns,
including a possible initial share sale.  PNB raised its stake in SP Setia to 33.2 percent yesterday,
exceeding the 33 percent threshold that requires the buyer to
extend a general offer, Maybank said in the statement.  Recent property tie-ups in the country include Malaysian
businessman Jeffrey Cheah merging earlier this year two property
and construction companies he controlled, citing the necessity
to create scale to bid for bigger projects in the nation and
overseas. The 4.5 billion ringgit merger was the biggest
property takeover in Malaysia in the past 20 years before
today’s announcement, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME)  announced on Aug. 29 the purchase of a 30
percent stake in property developer Eastern & Oriental Bhd. for
766 million ringgit to expand into the northern Penang and
southern Johor states, while state-controlled UEM Land Holdings
Bhd. made a 1.4 billion-ringgit takeover of smaller rival
Sunrise Bhd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc in  Hong Kong  at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  