-- 
Amazon Unveils $199 Kindle Fire Tablet

-- B y   B r a d   S t o n e   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-09-28T20:14:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/amazon-unveils-199-kindle-fire-tablet.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s
largest online retailer, unveiled its Kindle Fire tablet
computer, taking aim at  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s bestselling iPad with a
device that’s smaller and less than half the price.  The Kindle Fire will have a 7-inch display and sell for
$199, compared with $499 for Apple’s cheapest iPad, Amazon
executives said in interviews with Bloomberg Businessweek. The
device, a souped-up version of the Kindle electronic-book reader,
will run on Google Inc.’s Android software, the Seattle-based
company said. Amazon also introduced a touch-screen version of
its e-reader, to be called Kindle Touch.  Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos  is betting he can
harness Amazon’s dominance in e-commerce to pose a real
challenge to Apple’s iPad, after tablets from rivals such as
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and Research In Motion Ltd. have fallen
short. Sales of Amazon’s electronic books, movies and music on
the device may help make up for the narrower profit margins that
are likely to result from the low price, said Brian Blair, an
analyst at Wedge Partners Corp. in New York.  “Amazon is really the only other guy, the only other
potential tablet player, that has a similar offering to what
Apple has,” Blair said in an interview last week. “If you look
across their product offerings, they have content that none of
the other tablet makers currently have because they have content
on the media side.”  IPad Appeal  While the Kindle Fire can vie with the iPad in access to
media content, it lacks a camera, microphone or a connection to
a 3G wireless network. It may not appeal to consumers who are
drawn to the iPad’s larger screen and willing to pay a premium
for added features such as video chat.  “The Amazon tablet is not necessarily a direct competitor
to the iPad,” said  Colin Sebastian , an analyst at Robert W.
Baird & Co. in San Francisco, in a telephone interview.  Another
version of the Kindle may debut next year with more features to
directly compete with Apple, he said. Right now, “the price
point is the headline rather than the functionality.”  Starting today, customers can order the new tablet, as well
as a basic version of the Kindle e-reader for $79 and two new
touch-screen readers, one for $99 and another for $149 that has
3G wireless access. The lowest-priced Kindle can ship today, the
tablet will go out Nov. 15, and touch-screen readers will be
released Nov. 21, Amazon said.  Shares Rise  Amazon’s shares rose $5.50, or 2.5 percent, to $229.71 at 4
p.m.  New York  time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock has
increased 28 percent this year.  Apple fell $2.25 to $397.01. Shares of Barnes & Noble Inc.,
maker of the Nook e-reader, declined 91 cents, or 6.9 percent,
to $12.30 on the New York Stock Exchange.  The Kindle Fire offers Wi-Fi connectivity and comes with a
30-day free trial of Amazon Prime, the company’s $79-a-year
membership service that includes streaming video and free two-
day shipping. A web browser called Amazon Silk will use so-
called cloud computing to speed access to content over the
Internet. The tablet will be available on Amazon’s website and
at retailers that already sell the Kindle e-readers.  Amazon has painted over the rough surfaces of Google’s
Android operating system with a fresh and easy-to-use interface
and tied the device closely to its own large and growing content
library of movies, magazines and music. Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Forrester Research Inc. predicts the tablet
market will grow 51 percent a year through 2015.  Sales Potential  While the new Kindle will add to Amazon’s sales, estimated
by analysts to rise 32 percent to $64.6 billion in 2012, the
company may disappoint if the tablet doesn’t bring in revenue
quickly, Steve Weinstein, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities
in  Portland ,  Oregon , said in a note this week.  Consumer reaction to the device will play a “critical”
role in the company’s growth, he said. Analysts on average
predict Amazon’s gross margin, a measure of profitability, will
fall to 22.17 percent in 2012 from 22.35 percent last year,
according to a Bloomberg survey. Gross margin is the percentage
of sales left after subtracting production costs.  “Without success in tablets, investor growth expectations
for 2012 could prove too aggressive,” Weinstein said Sept. 26.  Apple started selling the original iPad in April 2010, and
introduced the iPad 2 in March of this year. The touch-screen
device, which has a 9.7-inch diagonal display, is already
Apple’s biggest source of revenue after the iPhone. The company
shipped 9.25 million  iPads  in the quarter that ended June 25.  Mobile Applications  Apple also leads the market for mobile applications, with
more than 425,000. Over 100,000 of those apps are custom-
designed for the iPad.  Two other tablets have failed to make a dent in Apple’s
dominance so far. Research In Motion Ltd.’s PlayBook, introduced
in the second quarter, shipped 200,000 units, less than half of
what analysts predicted. Analysts had already cut estimates for
full-year PlayBook shipments to an average of 2.2 million,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  Hewlett-Packard Co., meanwhile, discontinued its TouchPad
in August -- only about a month after its debut. And  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s largest software maker, may not have its
 Windows operating system  for tablets ready until next year.  The iPad accounted for 68 percent of all tablets shipped
worldwide in the second quarter, according to Framingham,
Massachusetts-based research firm IDC. Other Android-based
tablets, including models from Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.
and Samsung Electronics Co., accounted for 27 percent.  While Amazon has the clout and the content to take on Apple,
the company will have to go beyond the tablet released today to
be a serious competitor, Blair said.  “I don’t actually believe 7-inch is going to be a viable
tablet for anybody,” he said. “It’s a ‘tweener. A real tablet
offering has got to be a 10-inch screen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brad Stone at 
 bstone12@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  