-- 
AMD Reduces Sales Forecast, Citing Chip Manufacturing Glitch

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-09-28T22:37:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/amd-lowers-quarterly-sales-forecast-citing-supply-shortfall-shares-slump.html
Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , the
second-largest maker of processors for personal computers, cut
its forecasts for third-quarter sales and profitability, citing
manufacturing glitches. Shares dropped as much as 11 percent.  Sales in the period ending Oct. 1 will rise 4 percent to 6
percent from the previous quarter, the Sunnyvale, California-
based company said in a statement today. That compares with an
earlier prediction for growth of about 10 percent.  Globalfoundries Inc., a spinoff of AMD’s manufacturing
operations that now supplies the company with chips, is having
difficulties with production at its plant in Dresden,  Germany .
That has caused a shortfall of AMD’s latest processors, the
company said. The glitches are a setback as AMD rolls out its
new Llano chip for laptops, which has drawn steady demand, said
Hans Mosesmann, an analyst at Raymond James & Associates.  “They’re not cutting because of demand, but are cutting
because of execution problems,” said Mosesmann, who is based in
 St. Petersburg ,  Florida . “The big question is how far along are
they at fixing this problem.”  AMD shares dropped to as low as $5.50 in late trading after
the announcement. They declined 34 cents to $6.15 at 4 p.m. on
the New York Stock Exchange. The stock has fallen 25 percent so
far this year.  Gross margin, or the percentage of sales remaining after
deducting the costs of production, will be 44 percent to 45
percent for the quarter, AMD said. The company had previously
projected gross margin of 47 percent.  Globalfoundries’ Resources  Globalfoundries is “throwing substantial resources at
improving yields,” said  Drew Prairie , an AMD spokesman. “We’re
seeing progress.”  In the second quarter, AMD had sales of $1.57 billion. A
revenue increase of 4 percent to 6 percent from that period
would equal sales of about $1.64 billion to $1.67 billion.
Analysts on average estimated AMD’s third-quarter sales would
rise to $1.72 billion, according to Bloomberg data. Revenue in
the year-earlier third quarter was $1.62 billion.  Other chipmakers have slashed forecasts in recent weeks,
citing weak demand. Unlike those companies, AMD can’t supply
enough of the new Llano chips, according to Raymond James’
Mosesmann.  Earlier this week, Freescale Semiconductor Holdings said
its third-quarter sales won’t meet earlier projections.
Freescale followed rivals Texas Instruments Inc. and Intersil
Corp. in saying that orders for their products are slowing.  Llano, Interlagos  In addition to being unable to supply enough Llano chips --
a combination processor and graphics chip for PCs -- AMD said it
wasn’t able to ship its new server chip, called Interlagos, as
early as planned.  In April, AMD said it changed its supply agreement with
Globalfoundries to protect it against production delays. Under
the revised agreement, AMD only pays for functioning chips
delivered, rather than total production.  The government of  Abu Dhabi  is AMD’s largest shareholder,
with about a 16 percent stake. AMD is also the biggest customer
of Globalfoundries, which Abu Dhabi created out of manufacturing
operations it bought from AMD and  Singapore ’s Chartered
Semiconductor Manufacturing Ltd. in 2009. AMD is now primarily a
chip designer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles@bloomberg.net . 