-- 
American Funds’ Flagship Loses Top Rank as Investors Abandon Stock Pickers

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 
2011-09-28T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/american-funds-flagship-loses-top-rank-as-investors-abandon-stock-pickers.html
Growth Fund of America has lost its
status as the largest U.S. equity mutual fund, a position it
held for six years, as investors are turning away from Los
Angeles-based parent Capital Group Cos. and its tradition of
picking stocks.  The $139 billion Vanguard Total Stock Market Index Fund
last month overtook the $137 billion Growth Fund of America,
whose $3.3 billion of withdrawals in August were the most of any
fund, according to data from researcher  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) 
Investors pulled $73 billion, or 8.6 percent of the money held
by American Funds, in the 12 months ended Aug. 31, the heaviest
proportion among the 15 biggest fund families.  “We’re in an environment where stock pickers haven’t been
adding value and American Funds is a case study,”  Geoff
Bobroff , a mutual-fund consultant in  East Greenwich ,  Rhode
Island , said in a telephone interview.  Money is flowing out of mutual funds whose managers choose
domestic stocks for a record fifth straight year as shareholders
and advisers question whether it is worth paying them to try to
beat the market. The firm, which has resisted offering lower-
cost index funds, has been plagued since 2008 by performance it
calls disappointing, including poor returns for the large-
company stocks that are its specialty, and by an investor
preference for bond-fund managers.  American Funds , whose redemptions are rising for the fourth
year in a row, is altering its marketing while keeping its
investment process intact.  Communication Efforts  The firm is trying to improve communications with the
financial advisers who sell its funds by providing more frequent
reports on its outlook for the global economy and markets, said
 Chuck Freadhoff , a company spokesman, in a telephone interview.
Next year it will start using social media such as Facebook,
Twitter and YouTube to make educational material available to
the public.  American Funds isn’t changing its research-based process
for selecting investments or broadening its product line beyond
active mutual funds, Freadhoff said. James Rothenberg, Capital
Group’s non-executive chairman, in a December 2009 interview
brushed off suggestions that the firm may change the way it
invests.  “I think history shows -- including all the bad stuff --
that we’ve delivered,” Rothenberg said then.  10-Year Records  American, which uses teams of five to 10 managers to
oversee its funds, says its stock pickers base their decisions
on the same type of company-focused research the firm has used
since its founding in 1931. The funds emphasize long-term
results, and by that standard they’re still outperforming the
competition.  Growth Fund of America, the firm’s biggest fund, averaged
annual gains of 4.5 percent in the 10 years ended Sept. 16,
better than 79 percent of rivals, according to Chicago-based
Morningstar, and beating the 3.1 percent annualized return of
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, its benchmark. Since it was
created in 1973, the fund bested the index for large U.S. stocks
by 3 percentage points a year, according to an April regulatory
filing.  American’s 14 stock funds with at least a 10-year record
beat 76 percent of rivals, on average, Morningstar data show.
The firm’s 11 bond funds outperformed 53 percent of competitors.  Some of American’s funds have stumbled since the September
2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. roiled markets,
Freadhoff said. Capital Group underestimated the impact the
housing collapse and resulting credit crisis would have on
financial companies, he said. Growth Fund of America dropped 39
percent in 2008, its biggest calendar-year loss, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Interesting Fact’  American has opened three funds in the past two years,
including the $440 million Global Balanced Fund that invests in
stocks and bonds around the world. Talks on creating each began
before the 2008 market decline and none represents an attempt to
halt withdrawals, Freadhoff said.  “To the extent that outflows reflect disappointment among
our investors, we take them very seriously,” Freadhoff said
this month. “But we don’t care that the Vanguard fund is larger
than Growth Fund of America. It’s an interesting fact but it has
no significance.”  Several of the firm’s domestic stock funds lagged behind
their benchmarks in the stock-market rebound that began the next
year. In the 12 months following March 9, 2009, when stocks
reached a 12-year low, Growth Fund of America, the $55 billion
Investment Company of America Fund and the $49 billion
Washington Mutual Investors Fund each trailed the  S&P 500 ’s 72
percent gain by at least 7 percentage points.  Indexing, ETFs  American Funds had assets of $887 billion as of Aug. 31,
second to  Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based Vanguard Group Inc.
in U.S. mutual-fund holdings, according to  Morningstar . Capital
Group oversaw $1.25 trillion as of June 30, including money from
institutional investors such as pension funds.  Actively run domestic stock funds have seen redemptions of
$290 billion since the end of 2007, Morningstar data show, while
U.S. equity index funds have attracted $96 billion. An
additional $160 billion has poured into exchange-traded funds
that track indexes and trade throughout the day like stocks.  Investors have redeemed $31 billion from Growth Fund of
America since the end of 2007 while adding $42 billion to the
Vanguard fund that tracks the MSCI U.S. Broad Market Index,
according to Morningstar.  Cheaper Alternative  Too many of American’s funds closely track the returns of
indexes, Ed Schrotenboer, a financial planner in Bloomington,
 Minnesota , said in a telephone interview. Schrotenboer, who used
active funds from American and others earlier in his career, now
employs mainly ETFs because he no longer believes many stock
pickers can outperform indexes.  “Why would I choose American Funds when I can go with a
lower-cost index product?” Schrotenboer said.  Growth Fund of America charges annual fees of 43 cents to
$1.53 for every $100 invested, compared with 7 to 18 cents for
the biggest Vanguard index fund, according to the company
websites.  At its peak in October 2007, Growth Fund of America held
$202 billion in assets. It reigned as the nation’s largest
equity mutual fund from May 2005 until last month, according to
Morningstar.  American Funds has found it hard to live up to its past
success, said Burton Greenwald, a mutual-fund consultant in
Philadelphia. The firm performed better than most rivals in the
bear market of 2000-2002, and was untouched by a 2003 scandal in
which competitors were accused of allowing improper late trading
and market timing.  Broker Confidence  “There was a feeling among brokers that if you sold
American Funds you never had to say you’re sorry,” Greenwald
said in a telephone interview.  American Funds attracted an industry-leading $425 billion
in net deposits in the six years ended Dec. 31, 2007,
Morningstar data show. It lost $53 billion to redemptions in the
first eight months of 2011, compared with $50 billion in all of
last year, $20 billion in 2009 and $15 billion in 2008,
Morningstar data show.  The firm’s popularity earlier in the decade “may have
created unrealistic expectations,” Kevin McDevitt, an analyst
at Morningstar, said in a telephone interview.  Investors’ preference for bonds is benefiting firms such as
 Newport Beach , California-based Pacific Investment Management
Co., Greenwald said.  Bond Funds  “American isn’t a major player in that portion of the
market,” Greenwald said.  Bonds make up about 15 percent of American’s mutual fund
assets, according to the firm, compared with 27 percent at
Vanguard and more than 90 percent at Pimco.  Nor is American a big investor in small and mid-cap stocks.
The S&P 500 has returned 27 percent a year since March 9, 2009,
trailing the 34 percent annual gain for the S&P Midcap 400 Index
and a 32 percent increase for the  Russell 2000 , a proxy for
smaller companies.  Some money managers, including  Jeremy Grantham , chief
investment strategist for Boston-based Grantham, Mayo, Van
Otterloo & Co., have said blue-chip U.S. stocks will be the
best-performing equities over the next few years because they’re
the most attractively priced relative to earnings prospects.  “If I were an investor I would be comfortable with the
high-quality, large-cap companies that American owns,” said
Morningstar’s McDevitt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel in Boston at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  