-- 
American Express Signs Tencent Deal, Makes First China Partner

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-09-28T09:26:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/american-express-to-offer-electronic-payment-service-with-china-s-tencent.html
American Express Co. (AXP) , the biggest
credit-card issuer by purchases, will offer an online payment
service with  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  in its first collaboration
with an electronic payment partner in China.  The agreement will allow users of Tencent’s Tenpay online
payment service to make purchases outside China, American
Express and Tencent said in a joint statement today. Financial
details were not disclosed.  Tencent, China’s biggest Internet company by revenue, faces
competition from Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.’s Alipay and Baidu
Inc.’s Baifubao in processing online payments for consumers in
China, the world’s fastest-growing major economy. American
Express said this month it is seeking to expand in emerging
markets through acquisitions.  Shares of Tencent rose 3.4 percent, the most in five weeks,
to close at HK$165.40 in Hong Kong trading. The benchmark  Hang
Seng Index  fell 0.7 percent.  The partnership with Tencent will provide a “strong”
boost to American Express’s operations in China, Dave Keung,
vice president of the New York-based company’s global network
division, said in the statement.  Tenpay accounted for 21.2 percent of China’s third-party
payment market in the second quarter, ranking the service behind
only Alipay, which had a 45.5 percent market share, according to
research company Analysys International.  American Express is considering large international
acquisitions that will help the company benefit from demand for
mobile payments and online commerce in developing markets such
as China, Executive Vice President David Messenger said this
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  