-- 
Amyris Chief Sees Renmatix as Path to Cheaper Sugars, Biofuels

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-09-28T18:09:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/amyris-chief-sees-renmatix-as-path-to-cheaper-sugars-biofuels.html
Amyris Inc. (AMRS)  is seeking to make
renewable fuel that can compete on price with crude oil with a
process that uses hot water to convert wood waste into sugars,
said Chief Executive Officer John Melo.  Amyris, a biotechnology company based in Emeryville,
 California , gets most of its sugars from cane farms in  Brazil 
and is looking for cheaper alternatives to produce  diesel fuel 
and plant-based chemicals, he said.  The company is evaluating a process developed by Renmatix,
a startup that produces sugars from wood waste. Water that’s
under high pressure and heated to to about 400 degrees
Fahrenheit (204 Celsius) can instantly break down cell walls and
release sugars, Chief Executive Officer Mike Hamilton said at a
media briefing with  John Doerr , a partner at Kleiner Perkins
Caufield & Byers  “When you’ve got John Doerr and Amyris behind you, that
increases your chances of scaling up,” Alejandro Zamorano
Cadavid, an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in  New York ,
said today in an interview. “It’s a new and interesting
technology that could drive down costs.”  The Renmatix process is unlike most biofuel production
because it doesn’t require chemicals to extract sugars from
hardwoods and other biomass feedstocks, Melo said. Amyris then
uses micro-organisms similar to yeast to ferment the sugars into
fuels.  ‘Cheap Sugars’  “I’m searching the world for cheap sugars,” Melo said at
the briefing yesterday in King of Prussia,  Pennsylvania , where
closely held Renmatix is building a research facility and
headquarters. “I like this because it’s simple.”  Renmatix has a pilot plant in Georgia that produces three
tons of sugars a day from wood, and is shipping the product to
potential buyers for testing including Amyris and DuPont Co.  “Renmatix is on the edge of getting to the money,” Melo
said. “In three to five years we should have competitive sugars
from biomass.”  Renmatix wants to form partnerships with companies such as
DuPont and Amyris to help it build its first full-scale plant
next year, Hamilton said in an interview. To reduce
transportation costs, the facility must be within 75 miles of
large forest resources, he said.  Doerr is on Renmatix’s board and the  Menlo Park ,
California-based venture capital company has provided funding
for the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 