-- 
Man Shares Tumble After Company Says Volatile Markets Hit Product Demand

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-09-28T15:42:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/man-group-assets-under-management-fall-8-5-.html
Man Group Plc (EMG)  fell the most in
three years in London trading after the world’s biggest hedge
fund said its assets under management will decline by $6 billion
amid “suppressed” demand for investment products.  The stock dropped 25 percent to 180 pence, the most since
Nov. 6, 2008. Assets will fall 8.5 percent to $65 billion
through September from $71 billion at the end of June, the
London-based company said in a statement today. Man Group had
outflows of $2.6 billion from its funds in the second quarter,
with investors pulling money from strategies betting that stocks
will rise and funds focused on emerging markets.  “The extreme volatility of markets in recent months has
created challenging performance conditions across asset
classes,” Man Group Chief Executive Officer  Peter Clarke  said
in the statement. “We are assuming that investor appetite will
remain suppressed for the remainder of the year,” he said.  Hedge funds  lost 2.5 percent on average in August, the
worst month for the private investment pools since May 2010,
according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc. The declines
came amid a market sell-off that has driven the MSCI World Index
down 13 percent since the end of July as investors become
increasingly concerned that Europe won’t resolve its debt crisis
and the U.S. may slip back into recession.  Shares Decline  Clarke, on a conference call with reporters today, said the
company hopes demand for hedge funds and other investment
products “improves once there is clarity in markets,
particularly in  Europe .”  For the year, the stock is down 39 percent, giving the
company a market value of 3.4 billion pounds ($5.3 billion).  Sales will likely decline 50 percent in the second quarter
to $4.5 billion, the company said in the statement. Man Group
estimated redemptions jumped 34 percent to $7.1 billion. There
were a “couple” of September redemptions in which single
investors pulled “a few hundred million,” Clarke said on the
call with reporters.  Man Group’s assets under management were also hurt in the
second quarter by a strengthening U.S. dollar. Changes in
exchange rates are expected to account for $1.9 billion of the
decline in assets in the quarter, the company said.  Profit to Fall  Profit before tax for the six months ended Sept. 30 will
likely fall to $185 million from $227 million a year earlier.
Management and performance fees declined 8.4 percent to $230
million from the year earlier period.  The decline in assets was a “disappointment” that will
affect expectations for future earnings from management fees,
Citigroup Inc. analysts Haley Tam and Nese Guner wrote in a
report sent to clients today.  Tam and Guner, who have a “buy” rating on Man Group, said
the consensus estimate for full-year 2012 earnings will likely
be reduced between 3 percent and 5 percent. The median earnings
estimate for 2012 is 38 cents a share, according to 12 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Bank of America Corp. analysts led by Philip Middleton
expected Man Group assets under management to increase to $71.9
billion. Middleton and his team expected sales of $4.6 billion
and redemptions of $5.7 billion, triggering outflows of $1.1
billion from Man Group’s funds, according to a note sent to
clients on Sept. 16.  GLG Acquisition  Man Group has been adding products and trying to boost
sales in  Asia  and the U.S. since last October’s purchase of GLG
Partners LP for $1.6 billion. The company this month hired its
first Asia-based portfolio manager focused on stocks as it moves
to expand its investments in the region.  Man Group bought London-based GLG to reduce its reliance on
AHL Diversified Plc, a computer-driven hedge fund that accounts
for about one-third of the firm’s assets under management.  GLG’s hedge funds, overseen by individual portfolio
managers investing in stocks, bonds and currencies, will lose
about $1.1 billion in the second quarter, Man Group said in the
statement. The GLG European Opportunity Fund declined 13.5
percent for the two months ended in August and the GLG Emerging
Markets Fund slumped 13.3 percent.  GLG’s so-called long-only funds, which don’t make bets that
stocks will decline, lost $1.9 billion in the second quarter,
according to the company’s statement.  AHL, which relies on algorithms to spot profitable trades
in more than 150  futures markets , has gained 9.7 percent since
the end of June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
hedge fund has profited from investments in bonds,  interest
rates  and metals, Man Group said in the statement.  AHL has risen 0.5 percent for all of 2011. It gained 17.2
percent last year and declined 16.7 percent in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  