-- 
Manchester United Club Passes Rival Real Madrid in Survey of Soccer Brands

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-09-28T23:02:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/manchester-united-moves-ahead-of-real-madrid-in-survey-of-soccer-brands.html
Manchester United , the record 19-
time English soccer champion planning an initial public offering
later this year, has climbed above Real Madrid in a survey of
 Europe ’s top 30 teams by brand value.  The annual report published by  Brand Finance Plc  gives
United a brand valuation of 412 million pounds ($644 million),
up 11 percent from last year. Real, which has a policy of
signing some soccer’s biggest names like  Cristiano Ronaldo  and
Kaka, has a brand estimated to be worth 401 million pounds, with
European champion Barcelona third at 392 million pounds.  United’s strength has been underpinned by its success on
the field, where it’s won the Premier League in four of the last
five seasons, and the results of a commercial division that
enjoyed an annual increase of 27 percent to top 100 million
pounds for the first time. Earlier this month the team announced
a sponsorship agreement for its training apparel worth 40
million pounds with logistics company DHL.  “The commercial team at United have developed such a
compelling and well-protected brand that global partners are
willing to pay premium sums to be affiliated with the
champions,” said Brand Finance, which advises companies like
brewer SABMiller Plc and bank Standard Chartered Plc. “In the
upcoming IPO, we would expect the brand strength of United to
feature prominently in the investment story.”  United is planning to raise $1 billion later this year by
floating as much as 30 percent of the club in an IPO on the
Singapore stock exchange.  While United may have a stronger brand than Real, the team
owned by the U.S.-based Glazer family isn’t making the most
money. It’s behind both Real and Barcelona in terms of revenue,
according to a list published by accountant Deloitte LLP in
February. Real last week announced record sales of 480 million
euros ($654 million), more than any other team in professional
sport. United had revenue of 331.4 million pounds, according to
a Sept. 1 filing.  Most Improved  Brand Finance said the most improved soccer brand in the
past 12 months is United’s cross-town rival  Manchester City . The
team owned by billionaire Sheikh Mansour Bin Zayed Al Nahyan has
lavished millions of pounds on talent to make it a contender at
home and abroad and has qualified for Europe’s lucrative
 Champions League  for the first time.  In August, City signed the biggest partnership deal in
sport, a decade-long agreement worth more than 350 million
pounds with Abu Dhabi-based airline Etihad. The report ranks
City 11th, up from 19th, with a brand value that’s almost
doubled to 106 million pounds.  City’s rise can be attributed to a combination of “huge
sponsorship deals, star signings, Champions League football and
a first trophy in 35 years,” the report said.  Top Ten  Bayern Munich ,  Germany ’s richest and most successful team,
is fourth on the list, ahead of London teams Chelsea and
Arsenal. The Italian trio of AC Milan,  Inter Milan  and Juventus
and Liverpool complete the top ten. The total brand value of all
30 teams is worth 1.5 billion pounds, according to the report.  Still, that figure “alone has little immediate
application to football clubs,” according to Brand Finance.
Clubs must invest in “servicing the brand” if they are to
monetize the strength of the brand. Manchester United’s
commercial division has grown from two to more than 40 since the
Glazers bought the team in 2005.  “Within the branding industry they are not doing anything
unique,” Dave Chattaway, one of the report’s authors said in an
interview. “They are just taking best practice from companies
like Apple, Prada, heavily branded industries and bringing it
into the sports industry.”  The report, which is in its 6th edition, defined “brand”
as the teams’ trademarks and intellectual property. Of the
team’s that make up the top 30, Brand Finance has undertaken
paid consultancy work for Manchester United and  Portugal ’s
Benfica.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net ; 