-- 
Harrisburg Might Get a Receiver Thanks to Pennsylvania Bill

-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 
2011-09-28T17:37:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/harrisburg-may-become-pennsylvania-s-first-town-under-receivership-in-bill.html
Harrisburg may become
Pennsylvania’s first municipality to fall under receivership.  The City Council in July and August rejected fiscal rescue
blueprints from consultants hired by the state and Mayor  Linda Thompson . Today, The state House of Representatives voted 185-9
for a bill that would let Republican Governor Tom Corbett name a
receiver. The Senate still must consider the plan.  The capital city of 49,500 faces a debt burden five times
its general-fund budget because of an overhaul and expansion of
a trash-to-energy incinerator, which doesn’t generate enough
revenue to cover the obligations. It avoided defaulting on
general-obligation bonds in September and last year by getting
advances on state aid.  The vote “sends a strong message” to elected officials in
Harrisburg and elsewhere not to dawdle with recovery plans,
Representative Glenn Grell said on the House floor.  Harrisburg would be the state’s first municipality in
receivership, said Steven Kratz, a spokesman for the Department
of Community and  Economic Development .  Westfall Township in Pike County, which reorganized last
year, was the state’s only local government in municipal
bankruptcy. The two largest cities, Philadelphia and Pittsburgh,
must have their budgets reviewed by appointed oversight boards
whose powers are less extensive than a receiver’s.  Fiscal Emergency  Grell, of Hampden Township in Cumberland County,  and
Senator Jeffrey E. Piccola of Susquehanna Township in Dauphin
County, both Republicans, are pushing the legislation. The bill
would allow Corbett to declare a fiscal emergency in Harrisburg
and name a receiver who would develop a recovery plan.  The manager, technically appointed by the Commonwealth
Court and paid by the state, would have the power to implement
the steps, such as selling assets, hiring advisers and
suspending the authority of elected officials who interfere.
Unlike in  Michigan , the receiver wouldn’t be able to change
union contracts.  “Both of us have the same goal in mind, to break the
political stalemate and get the city of Harrisburg on the road
to financial recovery,” said Grell in a statement.  “The city,
and for that matter the entire region, cannot afford to have
more delay.”  The city will get another chance to devise its own plan.
The bill, which also bars Harrisburg from filing for bankruptcy
and from levying a tax on commuters, is headed to the Senate,
which will take it up the week of Oct. 17, said Erik Arneson, a
spokesman for Senate Republicans. Corbett has said he would sign
a takeover bill.  Thompson in an e-mailed statement before the House vote
blamed the four council members who rejected the state
consultants’ recovery proposal, which called for selling and
leasing assets and negotiating union contracts.  “Now we’re going to get approximately the same plan, but
without the guaranteed funding and with little or no control
over its implementation,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story: Romy Varghese in
Philadelphia at   rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Mark
Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  