-- 
Asia at Risk of ‘Modest’ Recession on Europe Woes, Mirae Says

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 
2011-09-28T09:58:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/asia-at-risk-of-modest-recession-on-europe-woes-mirae-says.html
Some Asian economies are at risk
of a “modest” recession as the worsening European debt crisis
hurts demand for exports, according to Mirae Asset Securities.  The world is going into a “long, shallow, slow period
which may embroil recession for some of the more highly exposed
economies in  Asia ,”  Bill Belchere , global chief economist at
Mirae, said in an interview in Hong Kong today. Singapore and
Hong Kong are most at risk of a recession, Taiwan also faces
the threat of a contraction, while South Korea may “stop
growing for a quarter or so,” he said.  Asian stocks swung between gains and losses today amid
concern that  Greece ’s latest effort to cut its deficit won’t be
enough to stave off a default and after further evidence of
weakness in the  U.S. economy . Exports have fallen or slowed
from the Philippines to Malaysia in recent months, damping
growth in a region that led the recovery from the 2009 global
recession.  While the global economy should be able to avoid a
significant recession, the expansion will be slow, Belchere
said. The “modest” and “shallow” weakness for Asian
economies may last until the first quarter of 2012, he said.  Singapore ’s gross domestic product declined an annualized
6.5 percent in the second quarter from the previous three
months, while Hong Kong’s economy shrank 0.5 percent.  “The great uncertainty is that we don’t know what’s going
to happen in  Europe ,” Belchere said. “The pain is bad
enough” that the U.S. and European Union will come up with
“better policies” to resolve the issues by early next year,
he said.  Greece, Ireland and Portugal may have to be removed from
the eurozone, the economist said.  “Greece has done nothing, they are not taking hard
medicine,” he said. “Growth is slow so they can’t even meet
their fiscal targets.”  While Ireland has cut wages, the economy may not grow fast
enough because of the weakness in the eurozone, Belchere said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophie Leung in  Hong Kong  at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net 
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  