-- 
Most Asian Stocks Advance as Greece Makes Progress to Secure Aid

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 
2011-09-28T12:25:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/asian-stocks-advance-as-greece-makes-progress-to-secure-next-aid-payment.html
Most Asian stocks advanced after
Greece made progress in meeting requirements for additional
international aid and  Germany  vowed continued support for the
debt-laden country.  Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , a clothier that counts Europe as its
biggest market, surged 12 percent in  Hong Kong . Oki Electric
Industry Co. climbed 9.2 percent in  Tokyo  after the Nikkei
newspaper reported the electronics maker may post its first
profit in seven years. CSR Corp., China’s biggest train maker,
fell 1.7 percent in Shanghai on speculation the government will
slow rail expansion following another accident.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.4 percent to 113.89 as
of 5:45 p.m. in Mumbai, having dropped earlier as much 0.2
percent. About three stocks rose for every two that fell in the
gauge. The measure slumped 7.1 percent last week, the most in
almost three years, on concern the global economy is set for a
recession. The declines drove the index into a so-called bear
market after falling more than 20 percent from a May 2 high.  “It’s looking more likely that  Greece  will get support,”
said Koichi Kurose, chief economist in Tokyo at Resona Bank Ltd.
“Policy makers have been pushed to act because Europe’s
situation has gotten so bad. That’s given stocks a little lift,
but if real progress isn’t made, we could see markets go right
back down again.”  Nikkei, Hang Seng  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average added 0.1 percent. The
broader Topix advanced 0.7 percent even as 921 of the 1,664
companies in the measure went ex-dividend today.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index jumped 0.9 percent. China’s
Shanghai Composite Index dropped 1 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang
Seng Index and South Korea’s Kospi Index fell 0.7 percent.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.3
percent, having swung between gains and losses of 0.6 percent.
The index climbed 1.1 percent yesterday in  New York , extending
its three-day advance to 4.1 percent, on optimism  Europe  is
close to an agreement to contain its debt crisis.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said Greece is ready to
fulfill the conditions laid down by the so-called troika
assessing Greek progress at meeting the terms of its
international rescue. Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won
parliamentary backing for a property tax to meet deficit-
reduction targets required to avoid default.  Greece’s Creditors  U.S. stocks trimmed gains yesterday in the final hour of
trading after the Financial Times reported that some euro-area
countries are demanding private creditors accept a bigger
writedown on their Greek bond holdings.  Esprit surged 12 percent to HK$9.55 in Hong Kong.  Cosco
Pacific Ltd. (1199) , which operates container facilities at Greece’s
Piraeus port, jumped 6.5 percent to HK$8.80.  Standard Chartered
Plc (2888) , the U.K.’s third-biggest lender by market value, rose 2
percent to HK$162.  The biggest three-day rally in a month for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index is failing to convince U.S. options traders to
lower their guard against more losses. Futures on the VIX show
investors expect the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index to remain at least 50 percent above its historical average
of 20.5 through May, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It seems that investors remain cautious about the
European debt crisis,” said  Ben Kwong , chief operating officer
at KGI Asia Ltd. “Investors here are not fully convinced that
the crisis is over, and they believe the market could test
another bottom because of prevailing concerns of the global
economic slowdown and the debt crisis of developed economies.”  France  Stalls  Commerce Department data due out today may show U.S.
durable goods orders fell. Separate reports confirmed France’s
economy stalled last quarter and showed confidence among U.S.
consumers stagnated in September near a two-year low.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 18 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 6.5 percent drop by the  S&P
500  and a 17 percent loss by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks
in the Asian benchmark were valued at 11.6 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 11.8 times for the S&P 500
and 9.7 times for the Stoxx 600.  Oki Electric surged 9.2 percent to 71 yen. The electronics
maker may report an operating profit of as much as 1 billion yen
($13 million) for the six-month period ending in September, the
first profit in seven years, the Nikkei newspaper reported,
citing rising sales of automatic teller machines in  China .  Train Crash  Daikin Industries rose 2.8 percent to 2,243 yen. Operating
profit for the fiscal year ending March 31 may rise to 90
billion yen, compared with a previous forecast of 85 billion
yen, because of stronger-than-expected demand for high-margin
air conditioners in China, Noriyuki Inoue, the company’s
chairman, said yesterday in  Osaka .  China’s rail-related stocks declined after a Shanghai
subway train rammed into the back of another locomotive
yesterday, sparking speculation the government will slow the
nation’s rail expansion. The country slashed rail construction
since 40 people were killed in a high-speed crash in July.  “This is an alarm bell for the  subway system  after years
of rapid growth,” said Jack Xu, an analyst at Sinopac
Securities Asia Ltd. in Shanghai. “Investment in the sector may
slow in the near term.”  CSR Corp., which supplied subway trains for lines in
Shanghai, Nanjing and Guangzhou, fell 1.7 percent to 4.64 yuan
in Shanghai.  China Railway Group Ltd. (601390) , the nation’s biggest
builder of train lines, slipped 1 percent to HK$2.99.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  