-- 
Asia May See Pickup in Acquisitions by Year-End: Citi’s Banfield

-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 
2011-09-28T07:02:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/asia-may-see-pickup-in-acquisitions-by-year-end-citi-s-banfield.html
Colin Banfield, Asia-Pacific head
of mergers and acquisitions at  Citigroup Inc. (C) , talks about his
expectations for deals in the region for the rest of 2011.  Acquisitions of Asian targets, by non-Asian buyers, have
slumped to $15.3 billion so far in the third-quarter, a 43
percent drop from a year before, data compiled by Bloomberg
shows. In the same period, overseas acquisitions by Asian
companies rose 60 percent to $56.9 billion, the data show.  On a pickup in the fourth quarter:  “We expect the fourth quarter of 2011 to be up on 3Q
levels, boosted by a recovery in cross border M&A deal volumes
as well as by continued strong activity intra-regionally in
 Asia . Countries with strong performing currencies, such as
 Japan , will be a key factor in shaping outbound M&A flows for
the remainder of the year.”  On recent activity slowdown:  “The recent instability and uncertainty in global
financial markets has had a knock on effect in pushing back the
timing of certain transactions. For now, the delays appear to be
temporary and the deal pipeline in the market remains robust,
particularly for intra-regional deals in Asia.”  “Assuming that the global financial markets stabilize and
do not worsen, there is a good prospect that many of these deals
will still be signed up before the year end.”  On financing for acquisitions:  “Unlike the 2008 financial crisis, during which credit
markets significantly constrained M&A deal flow, generally
financing markets remain open and available, particularly in
Asia where banks are well capitalized and markets supported by
good levels of liquidity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  