-- 
Peso, Rupee Lead Gains in Asian Currencies on Greek Progress

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-09-28T09:35:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/asian-currencies-drop-as-doubts-linger-over-europe-s-debt-crisis.html
The Philippine peso and  India ’s
rupee advanced on optimism European leaders will find a solution
to contain their debt crisis. In other Asian markets exchange
rates and stocks swung between gains and losses.  Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou won parliament
backing yesterday for a property tax that would pave the way for
further aid, while German Chancellor Angela Merkel said  Europe ’s
largest economy is ready to offer assistance. Concern still
lingers that a failure to implement measures to cut the Greek
 budget deficit  will lead to a default.  “Asian currencies may have a slight gain today because
there’s a bit more optimism on the European situation,” said
Leong Sook Mei, the regional head of global currency research at
Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  Singapore . “In the longer
term, at least for the next six months, we have actually changed
our trajectory for Asian currencies to depreciation because for
us the euro-risk development still remains very high.”  The peso climbed 0.9 percent to 43.455 per dollar from Sept.
26 at the 4 p.m. close in  Manila , according to Tullett Prebon
Plc. The rupee rose 0.5 percent to 48.8550, South Korea’s won
advanced 0.3 percent to 1,170.59, and Taiwan’s dollar
appreciated 0.2 percent to NT$30.410. China’s yuan gained 0.08
percent to 6.3938. Philippine financial markets were shut
yesterday due to a typhoon.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of regional shares rose 0.3
percent after dropping 0.2 percent earlier. Greek lawmakers
voted 155 to 142 yesterday to approve a property tax to help
plug the budget shortfall, taking the country a step closer to
securing an 8 billion-euro ($11 billion) aid package next month.  ‘ China ’s Determination’  China’s yuan rose the most in more than a week after the
central bank set a record daily reference rate, fueling
speculation policy makers will favor currency gains as a means
to tame inflation and support global exports.  Chinese consumer prices increased 6.2 percent in August
from a year earlier following a 6.5 percent rise in July that
was the biggest in three years, official data showed on Sept. 9.
Inflation peaked in July Lu Zhongyuan, deputy director of the
State Council Development Research Center, said at a briefing in
Beijing today.  “Today’s fixing reflects China’s determination to tame
inflation with a stronger currency,” said Edmond Law, deputy
head of foreign exchange at BWC Capital Markets in  Hong Kong .
“The inflation slowdown in August was matched by the yuan’s
gain for the same period. Yuan appreciation had proved useful in
reining in rising prices.”  Rupiah Less Vulnerable  The rupiah, the yuan and the peso are likely to prove the
most resilient of  Asia ’s emerging-market currencies as large
domestic economies help China,  Indonesia  and the  Philippines 
withstand a global slowdown, Western Asset Management Co. said.  “They are more domestic-demand driven,” the  fund manager ,
part of Baltimore-based Legg Mason Inc., said in a press release
today that didn’t identify the authors. “We expect the
authorities in China to allow for further appreciation to help
dampen the still elevated inflationary pressure.”  Gains in the won were limited after central bank data today
showed manufacturers’ confidence held at a 21-month low.
 South Korea  has sufficient foreign-exchange reserves to cope
with a potential financial crisis even if European investors
take their money out of the country, Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said in a parliamentary audit yesterday.  “Recent developments in Europe’s debt talks eased fear in
the market a little, but investors are aware that Europe’s debt
crisis has a long way to go before it settles down,” said Byeon Ji Young, a currency analyst at Woori Futures Co.  Elsewhere, the rupiah rose 0.2 percent to 8,890 per dollar,
according to prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg. It
gained the most since September 2009 yesterday. Malaysia’s
ringgit and the  Thai baht  declined 0.4 percent to 3.1645 and
31.02, respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  