-- 
Asset-Backed Bond Issuers Plan Quality Label to Lure Buyers

-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 
2011-09-28T12:54:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/asset-backed-bond-issuers-plan-minimum-standards-to-lure-buyers.html
Issuers in the $1.3 trillion market
for European asset-backed securities want to introduce minimum
standards as soon as next year to make the bonds blamed for the
credit crisis more attractive to buyers.  The  Association for Financial Markets in Europe  and
 European Financial Services Round Table  lobby groups are working
on plans to label asset-backed notes that reach certain
standards as Prime Collateralized Securities, according to two
people familiar with the matter. A PCS working group, which also
comprises investors, is scheduled to meet today to discuss the
timing for the project and how to get better regulatory
treatment for the debt, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the discussions are private.  The industry groups are working on the quality-assured
brand after issuance in the asset-backed  securities market  in
 Europe  tumbled by more than 80 percent since its pre-credit
crunch heyday. Sales stalled in 2008 after bonds linked to U.S.
subprime debt slumped, prompting investors to shun the hard-to-
value securities.  “In principle it’s a good initiative, but the
implementation is very complex because of the different market
practices in each European country,” said Alexander Batchvarov,
the London-based head of structured finance research at Bank of
America Corp.  2012 Label  The PCS label would be designed to take account of new and
existing regulation, said the people. Deals would need at least
two triple-A credit ratings and reveal enough information about
the underlying loans to be eligible for the liquidity operations
of the  European Central Bank  and  Bank of England , the people
said. The ECB, BOE and  European Investment Bank  have been
consulted on the plan, according to the people.  The lobby groups plan to have firm proposals ready for
approval by their members by year-end with new and existing ABS
deals able to get the PCS label by early 2012, said the people.
They expect about 80 billion euros of PCS-approved issuance by
2014.  The quality tag will be available for bonds backed by
residential mortgages, small- and medium-sized company loans and
consumer loans, the people said.  “To make this initiative work it’s key to get the ECB and
BOE to give the labelled issues better treatment in their
liquidity operations, or to persuade the European Commission to
require less capital for banks and insurance companies that buy
these bonds,” Bank of America’s Batchvarov said.  PCS Plan  AFME and EFR hired  Bishopsfield Capital Partners Ltd.,  a
structured finance advisory firm, to compile a business plan for
the PCS project, said the people. Alex Evans, an external press
officer for Bishopsfield Capital, confirmed the company’s
appointment while refusing to comment further.  Rick Watson, a managing director at AFME, confirmed the
group has hired a consultant to explore the project while
declining to comment on the specifics of the talks. Sebastian
Fairhurst, the Brussels-based secretary general for EFR,
declined to comment.  AFME was formed in November 2009 through the merger of
various industry groups including the London Investment Banking
Association and the European division of the Securities
Industries and Financial Markets Association. EFR is a group of
chairmen and chief executives of major banks and insurance
companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  