-- 
Aussie Banks Become a Global Favorite in Default Swaps: Australia Credit

-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 
2011-09-29T06:48:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/aussie-banks-become-a-global-favorite-in-default-swaps-australia-credit.html
Australian banks increased their
advantage in credit-default swaps over global peers this quarter
by the most in two years as bad loans fell and lenders led by
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  cut overseas borrowings.  While the average cost to insure the bonds of  Australia ’s
four biggest banks rose to 216 basis points yesterday from 129
on June 30, the global average jumped to 378 from 236, according
to data from Bloomberg and CMA. The Australian lenders’ discount
grew 55 basis points, the largest such increase since at least
2009, and their advantage over six major U.S. banks is at the
largest since May 2010.  Australia’s top four banks avoided state bailouts when
funding froze worldwide in 2008 and posted a 17 percent jump in
profits in their most-recent half-year reports. The lenders cut
reliance on overseas debt markets to the lowest since August
2009 after Moody’s Investors Service cited that dependence when
lowering their ratings in May. That’s allowed the banks to avoid
debt sales during the latest European debt crisis.  “They’re well capitalized, their asset quality is sound,
they’re profitable and they’ve reduced their dependence on
wholesale funding,” said Michael Korber, who manages A$6
billion ($5.9 billion) in cash and fixed-income assets as head
of credit at Perpetual Ltd. in Sydney. “Aussie banks’ credit
quality is quite robust.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Commonwealth
Bank’s $1.75 billion of 3.5 percent notes due in March 2015
instead of government debt jumped 64 basis points this quarter
to 200, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Bloomberg prices
show. The notes were issued at a 120 basis-point spread in March
2010, according to Bloomberg data.  Yield Premiums  The yield premium on Bank of America Corp.’s $2.5 billion
of 4.5 percent securities due April 2015 surged 273 basis points
to 501 in the same period, RBS and Bloomberg prices show.  Corporate spreads have expanded as concerns that Europe
won’t contain the fiscal crisis that started in  Greece  spurred
rallies in U.S. Treasuries and Australian government debt. The
benchmark Australian 10-year yield fell two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 4.26 percent as of 4:35 p.m. in
Sydney, paring its decline since Aug. 31 to 11 basis points. The
premium over similar-dated Treasuries narrowed four basis points
to 232.  The Australian yields are poised for a ninth month of
declines, the longest stretch of declines since at least 1978.  The Australian dollar is weakening for a second month,
trading at 98.15 U.S. cents as of 4:40 p.m. in Sydney. The so-
called Aussie, the world’s fifth-most traded currency, reached a
post-float record of $1.1081 on July 27.  Traders are betting the  Reserve Bank  of Australia will
lower its benchmark interest rate from 4.75 percent to 4.08
percent by year-end, as concern that Greece will default roils
global financial markets.  Greece-Resistant  Australian banks have no investments in Greece, compared
with $56.7 billion owed to French banks, according to data from
the  Bank for International Settlements  as of the end of 2010.
Meanwhile, Australia’s economy grew 1.2 percent in the second
quarter, the most in four years, driving earnings at the biggest
banks and making defaults by customers on bank loans less
likely.  “It’s a combination of the macro and the micro,” said
 Mark Mitchell , head of credit at Sydney-based Kapstream Capital,
which manages A$4.2 billion of assets. “Australian banks have
negligible exposure to mainland Europe, the Australian economy
is doing quite well and the triple-A rating is not at all under
threat. But it also comes down to the quality of their assets.”  Profits Climbing  The four biggest lenders -- Commonwealth Bank,  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC) ,  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  and  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  -- reported aggregate profits of
A$12.4 billion in their latest half-yearly results, the central
bank said in its financial stability review on Sept. 23. That’s
about A$1.6 billion higher than a year earlier, mainly due to
declines in bad and doubtful debt charges, the RBA said.  The biggest mining boom since the 1850s and interest-rate
increases by Australia’s central bank have helped drive up the
nation’s currency 13 percent against the  U.S. dollar  in the past
two years.  As global equity markets sink and soar by unprecedented
margins, Australian consumers are saving the most ever, lured by
the developed world’s highest benchmark  interest rate . Term
deposits surged to a record A$469.5 billion in July, the most
relative to offshore bank debt in data going back to 1984.  Growing Deposits  Ralph Norris, chief executive officer of Commonwealth Bank,
said in Sydney on Sept. 26 that the lender was so well funded it
wouldn’t have to raise financing in wholesale debt markets until
next year.  “Over the last 12 months or so, the growth of lending in
Australia has largely been covered by internal deposits,”
Norris told reporters that day. “That means we’ve been
overfunded in deposits, which means we’ve been able to pay down
some of our wholesale and offshore debt. We are strongly placed
to weather any storm that may occur as a result of what’s
happening in  Europe .”  The spread between the interest Australian banks pay when
borrowing from each other for three months and swaps tracking
expectations for the RBA’s benchmark expanded three basis points
to 38 basis points. The gap, a gauge of banks’ difficulty in
accessing funds, closed at 61 on Aug. 8, the highest since
January 2009.  Lack of Sales  Westpac’s sale of 100 billion yen ($1.3 billion) of notes
on Aug. 4 was the last benchmark offering by one of the top four
lenders, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  On existing debt, the spread on Australian-dollar bonds
sold by financial companies was the lowest relative to global
peers since July 2009 on Sept. 23, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data. While Australian yield premiums increased 19
basis points to 248 this month, those on global financial debt
have climbed 53 basis points to 346, the data show.  Australian lenders’ outstanding borrowings from overseas
dropped to A$314.1 billion in July, the least since August 2009,
according to data from the RBA. Still, banks will have to return
to debt markets at some stage, and that reliance remains their
biggest potential weakness, according to Mitchell at Kapstream.  “The most significant threat is the funding pressure,” he
said. “To the extent that their funding ever dries up, they are
going to struggle. To date, that hasn’t been an issue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  