-- 
Australian Homeowners Pessimistic on Unemployment, Slow Sales

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-09-28T01:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/australian-homeowners-pessimistic-on-unemployment-slow-sales.html
Australian homeowners are
increasingly pessimistic about the housing market as rising
unemployment and constrained sales dampen growth expectations, a
 National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  survey showed.  Home prices are expected to fall 1 percent over the next
year, Australia’s fourth-largest lender said in an e-mailed
report. Rents are forecast to rise 2.5 percent, compared with
predictions for growth of 3.1 percent in its June survey.  “Concerns over employment security increased notably in
the September quarter,” National Australia Bank said in the
report. “Survey respondents continue to cite tight credit
conditions as their most ‘significant’ concern.”  Australian home-loan approvals rose less than economists
forecast in July as unemployment unexpectedly jumped to an
eight-month high.  New home sales  crept up 1.1 percent in August,
after dropping 8 percent in July and 8.7 percent in June, the
Housing Industry Association said today.  About 7.7 percent of homes bought after 2007 are now worth
less than they were originally purchased for, real estate
researcher RP Data said in an e-mailed report today.  Home prices  fell 2.4 percent in the third quarter, and
rental growth slowed to 0.7 percent, from 1.3 percent in the
quarter ended June 30, National Australia Bank said. Prices are
expected to rise 0.5 percent by September 2013.  Index Falls  National Australia Bank’s residential property index, which
measures home price expectations among owners and the real
estate industry, fell to minus 14 points in the three months to
Sept. 30, from minus 5 the previous quarter. The bank surveyed
real estate agents and managers, property owners and investors,
developers, fund and asset managers, and valuers across
Australia for the quarterly report.  Capital city home values have risen about 30 percent in the
five years to June 30, with  Australia ’s housing market now worth
about A$4.56 trillion ($4.5 trillion), according to RP Data.
Some 45 percent of properties are worth more than twice what
their owners paid for them, the group said.  The ability of Australian homeowners to keep up with
mortgage payments declined over the past year, Moody’s Investors
Service said in an e-mailed report today.  The national delinquency rate rose to 1.67 percent from
1.36 percent between March 2010 and June this year, while the
number of regions with mortgage performance classed by the risk
assessor as “poor” or “very poor” increased fourfold to 28
out of 65, Moody’s said.  The biggest declines in mortgage performance were in
Queensland and  Western Australia , even though those states have
been the biggest beneficiaries of Australia’s mining boom,
according to Moody’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  