-- 
Avoca Builds Record Cash Hoard to Invest in Plummeting Junk Debt

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 
2011-09-28T10:04:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/avoca-builds-record-cash-hoard-to-invest-in-plummeting-junk-debt.html
Avoca Capital Holdings is planning
to use a record cash hoard to buy high-yield debt that has
plummeted 8.4 percent since July, the co-founder of the 6
billion-euro ($8 billion) fund said.  “We felt there will be better value later this year,
especially in bonds, which haven’t fallen enough relative to
loans,” Chief Executive Alan Burke said in an interview in
London.  Avoca has 250 million euros set aside to buy  junk bonds  and
leveraged loans, representing as much as 5 percent of the fund
compared with less than 1 percent in the past. The firm, which
manages 10 collateralized loan obligations, has also cut
investment in junior-ranking debt to 4 percent from 12 percent a
year ago and has no fixed-rate bonds at the moment.  Speculative-grade bonds in  Europe  have fallen to 89 percent
of face value from 100.6 percent in July, according to a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch credit index as Greece flirts with default
and threatens to derail the economic recovery. European
leveraged loan prices fell to a 2011 low of 87.1 percent of face
value at the end of last week, according to Markit Group Ltd.  High-yield debt, or leveraged loans and junk bonds, are
rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings. It finances buyouts.  ‘A Lot of Money’  Burke is building up a cash arsenal as Blackstone Group
LP’s head of restructuring Timothy Coleman said leveraged
buyouts will resume when idle investors put cash to work.
“There is a lot of money out there,” Coleman, 57, said
yesterday at the Bloomberg Dealmakers Summit in  New York .  Debt prices may drop further as policymakers’ efforts to
revive a flagging economy fall short, according to Citigroup
Inc. global head of credit strategy Matt King. The  Federal
Reserve ’s decision to buy $400 billion of bonds maturing in six
years or longer through “Operation Twist” may shave half a
percentage point from 10-year government bond yields; it won’t
persuade companies to hire and consumers to spend, King wrote in
a Sept. 26 note to clients.  Loans are trading at a premium of about 6 percentage points
to benchmark lending rates, implying a default rate of 30
percent. Avoca forecasts a default probability for the market of
3 percent.  “Loan prices are offering way too much yield relative to
their  default risk . The fair value would be somewhere between
300 to 400 basis points over Libor, or about mid-90s in price,”
said Burke. “We don’t see value in bonds relative to loans at
the moment but that could change in the next three to four
months and we are ready for that when it happens.”  Burke left Allied Irish Banks Plc in July 2002 to start
Avoca with Donal Daly. The Dublin-based manager has been
“highly profitable,” according to Fitch, earning 17 percent
annually for equity investors in its first CLO originated in
2003 and redeemed in December 2006.  The firm is looking to grow by purchasing assets from banks
that need to reduce their 200 billion euros of loan portfolios
to comply with new capital rules, Burke said. Loan prices may
need to recover to 95 percent before banks put their inventories
up for sale, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in  London  at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  