-- 
B2W Varejo Gains on Speculation Retailer May Be Takeover Target

-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 
2011-09-28T17:18:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/b2w-varejo-gains-on-speculation-retailer-may-be-takeover-target.html
B2W Cia. Global do Varejo, a
Brazilian online retailer, gained on speculation it is a
takeover target after losing nearly half its value this year on
concern rising competition will drive down profits.  B2W rose 0.3 percent to 15.89 reais in  Sao Paulo  trading at
1:16 p.m. New York time, after earlier advancing as much as 4.7
percent. Shares had fallen 49 percent this year through
yesterday.  Investors are also speculating that parent Lojas Americanas
SA,  Brazil ’s biggest discount retailer, may use proceeds from a
bond sale earlier this month to buy the remainder of the company
it doesn’t already own, said Francisco Kops, an equity analyst
at Planner Corretora De Valores in Sao Paulo. Lojas Americanas
holds 58 percent of B2W, according to the online retailer’s
website.  “There’s a rumor that because B2W’s price is so depressed
compared to its history, it could be a target for a merger or
acquisition,” Kops said in a phone interview. “There’s
speculation B2W could be bought by a Chinese retail company, and
also that Lojas will use cash from its bond sale for the
remaining shares in the company.”  Lojas Americanas said its board approved the sale of as
much as 500 million reais ($275 million) of local bonds,
according to a regulatory filing on Sept. 12.  An official at an outside press agency representing Lojas
Americanas and B2W, who asked not to be identified in accordance
with company policy, requested an e-mailed list of questions
when contacted by phone today. The official didn’t immediately
respond to the e-mail.  Kops has had a sell rating on B2W since June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  