-- 
Bachmann Urges Evangelical Voters Not to ‘Settle’

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-09-28T16:59:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/bachmann-urges-voters-not-to-settle-.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Michele Bachmann  said voters shouldn’t “settle” for a
president who doesn’t share their values, spotlighting one of
her campaign themes in a speech today at  Liberty University  in
Lynchburg,  Virginia .  The Minnesota congresswoman urged the students at Liberty,
an institution which describes itself as the world’s largest
Christian university, not to compromise in their personal lives
or their politics.  “This is an election of all elections when we have the
opportunity to turn this country around,” said Bachmann, a
favorite of anti-tax Tea Party activists. “We can’t settle.”  Bachmann, who surged in opinion polls after declaring her
candidacy in June, has seen her standing slide in national
surveys since Texas Governor  Rick Perry  entered the Republican
race on Aug. 13.  In an attempt to regain ground, Bachmann has stressed her
conservative credentials and argued that Perry and former
Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , who are ahead of her in the
polls, have compromised on issues important to Republican
voters.  She has criticized Romney for backing a state health-care
plan that included a personal mandate to buy insurance and Perry
for supporting in-state tuition rates for illegal immigrants and
signing an executive order requiring a vaccine for girls to
prevent cervical cancer.  No Compromise  “Constitutional conservatives and others in the past have
been asked to settle in order to win,” said Keith Nahigian,
Bachmann’s campaign manager, in a briefing released yesterday.
“This is not the year to compromise.”  Bachmann used her address to underscore her “don’t settle”
campaign theme without directly attacking her opponents.  She highlighted her opposition to the 2009 federal health-
care law, which she called “the most egregious level of taking
of our liberty,” and government-sponsored bailouts of banks,
automobile manufacturers and insurance companies.  “We can’t settle for the federal government taking over
private industry,” she said.  Evangelical voters have been influential in recent
Republican presidential primaries, comprising almost half of
those who turn out to vote, according to polling analysts. They
wield significant power in  Iowa , site of the nation’s first
nominating caucuses, where 60 percent of participants in the
2008 Republican contest described themselves as born-again or
evangelical Christians.  Perry Speech  Bachmann, 55, is competing for those voters with Perry, who
gave a speech about his life and “faith journey” at Liberty on
Sept. 14. He said America should be guided by “Christian
values,” encouraging students not to allow “a bunch of
Washington politicians” to dictate how they live.  School Chancellor Jerry Falwell Jr., son and namesake of
the late social conservative commentator who founded the
university, said Bachmann is a favorite among the students at
Liberty. “Her background is similar to a lot of folks here,”
he said in an interview before the event. “She’s kind of one of
us.’  Fifth Republican  Bachmann is the fifth Republican presidential hopeful to
address the university, said Falwell. Aside from Perry, the
previous speakers were U.S. Representative Ron Paul of  Texas ,
former pizza chain executive  Herman Cain  and former House
Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of  Georgia .  Invitations have been extended to Romney, President  Barack Obama  and other candidates. The 2008 Republican vice
presidential nominee, former Alaska Governor  Sarah Palin, is
speaking at Liberty on October 8.  Falwell, who hasn’t endorsed a presidential candidate yet,
said Bachmann has been a consistent conservative voice.  “From her first day in office she has demonstrated a
commitment to bold reform and has fought the evils of big
government,” Falwell said. “Her courage and determination is
her trademark.”  Bachmann, who was raised Lutheran, said she found her faith
at age 16 when she knelt before a church altar.  “I was a sinner and I had a heart that needed to be
cleaned,” she said. “At that moment, I repented from my sin.”
Later that evening, Bachmann said, she promised to “radically
abandon myself to Jesus Christ.”  Abortion Rights Opponent  Bachmann has gained support from social conservatives for
her opposition to abortion rights and same-sex marriage. She
began her political career protesting outside of clinics that
perform abortions.  She received her law degree from  Oral Roberts University , a
Christian college based in Tulsa,  Oklahoma . Bachmann &
Associates, the clinic she owns with her husband, who has a
doctorate in clinical psychology, specializes in Christian
counseling, which combines psychology with Biblical teachings.  As a member of the state Senate in  Minnesota  before winning
her House seat, Bachmann became one of that chamber’s most
active lawmakers on social issues. From 2003 through 2005, she
unsuccessfully pushed for a constitutional amendment that would
bar the state from legally recognizing same-sex marriage.  In her Liberty speech, Bachmann said she had simply
followed God’s plan for her life. “Don’t settle for anything
less than what this great and almighty God has planned for
you,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story: Lisa Lerer in Lynchburg,
Virginia, at
  or
 l@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  