-- RBS Sells Buildings in Germany to Norwegian Fund and Axa
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2012-10-10T16:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/banks-to-sell-20-billion-of-european-property-debt-situs-says.html
Axa Investment Managers SA and
Norway’s sovereign-wealth fund agreed to buy two buildings in
 Frankfurt  and Berlin for 784 million euros ($1 billion), the
biggest German commercial real estate transaction this year.  The properties were sold by  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc  in a deal that will probably be completed by the end of the
year, Axa Real Estate and Norges Bank Investment Management said
in separate  statements  today.  “The price level in  Germany  is attractive,” Harald Magnus Andreassen, chief economist at Swedbank First Securities in
Oslo, said by phone. “The prices may go up and down, but the
rental income from good properties is quite stable over time.”  German commercial property transactions have slowed this
year as banks curb lending to meet stricter capital rules.
Pension funds and insurance companies with cash reserves are
better to able to make acquisitions without borrowing money. In
2010, the Norwegian wealth fund got approval to invest as much
as 5 percent of its capital in real estate.  The Berlin building, on the Kurfuerstendamm Boulevard, has
72,400 square meters (779,000 square feet) of office and retail
space on 16 floors, according to today’s statements. The other
property, in Frankfurt’s business district, has 81,600 square
meters of mainly  office space .  Pegasus Portfolio  The buildings are part of the Pegasus portfolio, which RBS
took over from  Morgan Stanley (MS)  when the New York-based bank
liquidated its P2 Value German-property fund in 2010, a person
with knowledge of the deal said. The Berlin property is the
Neues Kranzler Eck, while the one in Frankfurt is a wave-shaped
glass tower known as Die Welle, according to the person, who
asked not to be identified because the information is private.  RBS was up 2.1 percent at the close of trading in  London ,
while the benchmark FTSE 100 Index fell 0.6 percent. The
 International Monetary Fund  today said European banks may need
to sell as much as $4.5 trillion in assets through 2013 if
policy makers fall short of pledges to stem the region’s fiscal
crisis, an 18 percent increase from its April estimate.  Norges Bank and  Axa SA (CS)  formed a joint venture last year in
which the French company’s Axa Real Estate unit acts as an asset
manager, the companies said in their statements. It’s the
venture’s first investment in Germany.  “Germany has a big real estate market and will form an
important long-term part of our portfolio,” Karsten Kallevig,
chief investment officer for real estate at the Norwegian fund,
said in an interview today. The fund will look for more
investment opportunities in the country, he said.  Fewer Investments  Investors bought German offices, malls and logistics
centers valued at about 14.9 billion euros in the first nine
months of 2012, 14 percent less than a year earlier, according
to data compiled by  Jones Lang  LaSalle Inc.  “We like a bit of scale in our deals because we think it’s
a less crowded space,” Kallevig said in the interview.  Union Investment Real Estate AG sold Die Welle for 703
million euros to a Morgan Stanley real estate unit in 2007,
according to a  statement  at the time from the German company.
Neues Kranzler Eck was also sold by Union Investment as part of
a separate sale of 28 properties to Morgan Stanley at the same
time for a combined 1.36 billion euros, according to the
statement.  The Norwegian fund bought a 50 percent stake in the U.K.’s
Meadowhall shopping center on Oct. 8. In July, it purchased
shares in five French office and retail buildings, according to
its website.  Axa SA was down 0.9 percent at 11.56 euros at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Paris. RBS has climbed 6.8 percent in the past 12
months, while Axa is little changed.  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG)  advised Axa, while Jones Lang acted for
Edinburgh-based RBS, two people with knowledge of the
transaction said. Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP and
Clifford Chance LLP were the legal advisers, according to the
people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 