-- 
Barcelona Beats BATE 5-0 in Champions League Soccer; Arsenal, Milan Win

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-09-28T23:18:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/barcelona-beats-bate-5-0-in-champions-league-arsenal-milan-win.html
Barcelona routed BATE Borisov 5-0
in soccer’s  Champions League  as AC Milan and Arsenal won at home
to get their first victories in this season’s competition.  Lionel Messi  scored two goals to lead defending champion
Barcelona to the win last night in Belarus. Messi is now tied
with Ladislao Kubala’a 194 goals for Barca. Only Cesar, with 235
goals, has scored more for the Catalan club.  “If Messi has reached the figure he has at 24, imagine
what he has left to achieve?” Barcelona coach Josep Guardiola
told reporters. “I hope he doesn’t consider retiring.”  Milan beat Viktoria Plzen of the Czech Republic 2-0, while
Arsenal held on to defeat Olympiacos 2-1.  Valencia scored on a late penalty kick to tie Chelsea 1-1,
 Bayer Leverkusen  beat Genk 2-0, Marseille was a 3-0 winner over
Borussia Dortmund, Zenit St. Petersburg defeated Porto 3-1 and
 Shakhtar Donetsk  drew 1-1 at home with APOEL Nicosia to wind up
the second round of games in  Europe ’s elite club competition.  Barcelona took the lead in Minsk on an own goal from
Aleksandr Volodko in the 19th minute.  Pedro Rodriguez  scored
three minutes later and Messi made it 3-0 seven minutes before
halftime. Messi struck again in the 56th minute and  David Villa 
wrapped up the scoring in injury time.  “It’s never easy playing an attacking game against a side
that is so closed; they’re waiting for you at the back,”
Guardiola said. “They can make you lose your patience. Our two
first goals changed everything.”  Joint Leaders  The victory keeps Barcelona even with Milan at the top of
Group H with four points from two games. BATE and Plzen each
have one point.  Zlatan Ibrahimovic scored with a penalty kick in the 53rd
minute and Antonio Cassano added a second goal in the 66th
minute to give Milan the victory in  Italy .  Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain and Andre Santos scored in the
opening 20 minutes of Arsenal’s win in London. David Fuster
scored for Olympiacos, while captain Vassilis Torossidis hit the
crossbar in the second half.  “It was a very tough game,” Arsenal goalkeeper Wojciech
Szczesny told Sky Sports. “You have to give credit to our
defense for keeping the score at 2-1. They put a lot of pressure
on us and we produced a great defensive performance in the
second half.”  Marseille Leads  Marseille leads Group F after its win over Dortmund. Andre
Ayew scored twice and Loic Remy got the other goal. Marseille
has six points, Arsenal has four, Dortmund one and Olympiacos
none.  Roberto Soldado scored with a penalty kick in the 87th
minute to give Valencia the home draw with Chelsea.  Frank Lampard  scored on his return to the Chelsea lineup after
starting three of the previous four games on the bench.  “It was a pity because I think we looked good to get three
points,” Chelsea manager Andre Villas-Boas told  Sky Sports .
“Before the game if we were offered a 1-1 draw with Valencia
maybe we would have been happy. But it leaves us with a feeling
we don’t like.”  Chelsea leads Group E with four points, one more than
Leverkusen, which beat Genk on goals from Lars Bender and
 Michael Ballack . Valencia has two points and Genk has one.  APOEL Nicosia leads Group G after its 1-1 draw with
Shakhtar Donetsk. Ivan Trickovski scored for APOEL and Jadson
answered for Shakhtar three minutes later.  Roman Shirokov scored two goals to lead Zenit past 10-man
Porto, which had Jorge Fucile sent off for a second yellow card
just before halftime.  APOEL has four points, Zenit and Porto have three and
Shakhtar has one.  The third round of matches is scheduled for Oct. 18-19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 