-- 
Barroso Urges Faster Start-Up of Permanent $678 Billion Euro Bailout Fund

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-09-28T13:41:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/barroso-calls-for-faster-start-up-of-permanent-euro-bailout-fund.html
European Commission President  Jose Barroso  called for the faster creation of a permanent-rescue
fund and appealed to central bankers to use their powers as the
ultimate line of defense against the debt crisis.  Due to be set up in mid-2013, the permanent fund, known as
the European Stability Mechanism, will wield a 500 billion-euro
($678 billion) war chest that could be used more flexibly than
the current guarantee-based interim backstop and will include
provisions for managing a sovereign default.  “We should do everything possible to accelerate the entry
into force of the ESM,” Barroso told the  European Parliament  in
Strasbourg,  France , today. He warned that the debt crisis had
reached a “serious” stage and ruled out the ouster of  Greece 
from the euro.  Coming amid global criticism of Europe’s crisis response,
Barroso’s speech marked an effort to wrest powers away from the
euro area’s 17 national governments, which he said operate at a
pace “dictated by the slowest.”  Offering an array of remedies, Barroso called for a
financial-transaction tax that could raise 57 billion euros
annually, said he will press ahead with proposals for common
bonds and urged the scrapping of the unanimity rule in European
Union decision-making.  ECB Backstop  As political leaders mull Greece’s next loan and an
improved rescue framework, Barroso pointed to the  European
Central Bank  as the institution best equipped to fend off
speculators in the interim.  The ECB needs to “do whatever is necessary to ensure the
integrity of the euro area and to ensure its financial
stability,” Barroso said.  Efforts to shore up  Europe ’s finances moved ahead today
with the parliament’s passage of a six-part legislative package
that stiffens sanctions on countries with runaway budget
deficits and toughens the monitoring of boom-bust cycles.  Policymakers are weighing how to go further, identifying
the group of euro-area finance ministers as the weakest link in
the system. How to strengthen it will be a subject at an Oct.
17-18 summit in Brussels.  Bailout Payment  Apart from rhetorical support for Greece, at the epicenter
of the debt crisis, Barroso gave no indication whether the
country will qualify for the next 8 billion-euro loan
disbursement next month. A decision will be made at an extra
October meeting of finance ministers that was announced today.  To pave the way toward that judgment, experts from the
commission, the ECB and the  International Monetary Fund  will
return to  Athens  tomorrow to assess the latest round of Greek
budget cuts cobbled together under international pressure.  Barroso said work is progressing on ways to make the “most
efficient” use of the 440 billion-euro temporary rescue fund,
set to be endowed with additional powers by mid-October.  Nine of the 17 euro countries have ratified the upgrade of
the temporary fund, the European Financial Stability Facility.
The vote in  Germany , Europe’s anchor economy, is tomorrow.  The permanent fund is now at the start of a ratification
process that requires all 27 EU governments to endorse an
amendment to the bloc’s governing treaties.  Barroso touted the proposed financial transaction tax as
the price banks must pay for the 4.6 trillion euros in aid and
guarantees offered by European governments since the outbreak of
the financial crisis in 2008.  “It is time for the financial sector to make a
contribution back to society,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  