-- 
Turkish Bank May Cut Reserves to Help Long-Term Bonds

-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y   a n d   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-09-28T14:15:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/basci-says-any-reserve-change-will-aim-to-boost-long-term-bonds.html
Turkey ’s central bank may lower
 reserve requirements  and would design any such changes to
encourage longer-term issuance of bank bonds, Governor Erdem Basci said.  The central bank is able to take action on reserve
requirements outside its regular monthly rates meetings, Basci
said at a conference in Istanbul today. The next rates meeting
takes place Oct. 20.  Under Basci, the Ankara-based lender has used the reserves
banks must deposit against their liabilities as a tool to
control economic growth by rationing the cash banks have
available to lend to consumers and business. Demand is now
slowing and European debt problems may require an easing of all
policy instruments, the bank said Sept. 20, a phrase Basci
repeated today.  “The bank may move to lower the long-term lira reserve
requirement,” Tufan Comert, a strategist at broker Garanti
Securities in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments. The change
may come “at the next meeting, or before.”  The index of banking shares was 2.5 percent higher at 3:36
p.m. in Istanbul, with the main  ISE National 100 index (XU100)  1.6
percent higher at 59.193.77.  The reserve requirement rate on liabilities such as
deposits ranges from 16 percent for the shortest-term, to 5
percent for those of over one year. For the banks’ bonds the
central bank demands 13 percent reserves, and at present the
rate doesn’t vary over different maturities.  For foreign currency liabilities the rate is 11.5 percent
for up to a year and 9.5 percent for longer than a year.  Yields on benchmark two-year bonds extended a decline after
Basci spoke and were 6 basis points, or 0.06 of a percentage
point, lower at 8.37 percent at 3:16 p.m. in Istanbul.  The bank kept the benchmark one-week repo lending rate
unchanged at 5.75 percent, a historic low, at its Sept. 20
meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net ;
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 