-- 
Basel Committee Keeps 2.5 Percent Surcharges for Big Banks

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-09-28T19:03:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/basel-committee-keeping-2-5-capital-surcharges-for-world-s-biggest-banks.html
Global regulators will stick to
planned capital surcharges of as much as 2.5 percent for the
world’s biggest banks while adjusting how the levies are
calculated.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  decided against
changing the surcharge levels during talks today and yesterday
amid criticisms from banks including  BNP Paribas SA  and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  that the measures may stymie the financial
system’s recovery. Regulators at meetings in Basel,  Switzerland ,
also agreed to accelerate work on a minimum liquidity rule to
provide “greater market certainty.”  Regulators “agreed to retain the proposed calibration for
the additional loss absorbency requirement, which will range
from 1 percent to 2.5 percent,” the committee said in a
statement on its website. The group proposed making “some
changes to certain indicators to improve the methodology for
identifying” what size of levies individual banks should face.  Bank watchdogs have clashed with some lenders over the
additional capital rules, which were released for  public comment 
in July.  Jamie Dimon , chief executive officer of  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) , and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  CEO  Brian T. Moynihan , 51, are
among bankers who have said that the proposals would constrain
lending and hurt the economy. Dimon, 55, has said that the U.S.
should consider withdrawing from the Basel committee and that
the rules it sets are “anti-American.”  ‘More Capital’  The Basel group brings together bank regulators from 27
countries including the U.S., U.K. and  China , to set
international standards for lenders.  “One has to question whether this is the best time to be
asking banks to hold more capital,” James Babicz, head of risk
at business analytics company SAS U.K., said in an e-mail.  “The focus should not be on regulating capital. Rather we
should be regulating banks’ data in order to supervise the
risk,” Babicz said.  The  Basel  group said that it was speeding up work on the
minimum liquidity rule, known as a liquidity coverage ratio, in
order to “provide greater market certainty about the final
technical details and calibration” of the measure.  “There is a growing realisation that the LCR is going to
be a challenge, particularly in a market where senior bank
funding is frozen in  Europe ,” said Jesper Berg, senior vice
president at  Denmark ’s biggest mortgage bank, Nykredit A/S.  Work on “key areas” of the liquidity rule, which will
require banks to hold enough easily sellable assets to survive a
30-day funding crunch, will now be completed “well in advance
of the mid-2013 deadline” for finalizing the standard, the
committee said. The LCR is scheduled to take effect from Jan. 1,
2015.  ‘Massive Uncertainty’  “There was massive uncertainty in the market about what
would and would not count as liquidity, and they are saying they
will provide that clarity,” said  Simon Maughan , head of sales
and distribution at MF Global Ltd. in  London . “This uncertainty
was a big issue for the French banks over the summer. These
liquidity ratios are a bigger issue than even the capital
requirements are.”  The Basel group will examine how banks measure the
riskiness of the assets on their banking and trading books to
ensure that capital rules are applied consistently “in practice
and across jurisdictions.”  The Basel committee said last year that banks should hold
core capital equivalent to 7 percent of their risk weighted
assets.  JPMorgan’s Dimon has said that some lenders outside the
U.S. have been allowed to get away with holding less capital
because in their jurisdictions they are allowed to apply risk
weightings in a different way.  Global Trade  BNP Paribas (BNP) ,  France ’s biggest bank, said in its  response  to
the Basel consultation that the surcharge proposals should be
put on hold indefinitely. The plans could discourage banks
“from facilitating global trade,”  Citigroup  said in its
submission.  The Basel group anticipates phasing in the surcharges
between 2016 and the end of 2018.  European bank stocks fell today amid concern that holders
of Greek bonds will suffer larger losses than previously agreed
on. Austria’s  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  and  Erste Group
Bank AG (EBS)  led the 46-member Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index down 1.8 percent. The measure has dropped 31
percent this year.  Shock Waves  Under the surcharge proposals, lenders whose failure could
send shock waves throughout the financial system would face
stricter minimum  capital requirements  of 1 to 2.5 percentage
points of core reserves. This would be on top of an already-
announced tripling in the amount of core capital that all
internationally active banks must hold.  The levies would be calculated using a methodology based on
banks’ size, interconnectedness, complexity, global reach, and
the ability of other firms to take over lenders’ functions if
they fail.  Today’s decision by the Basel committee “eases somewhat
the way the rules will be applied to banks but not as much as
they wanted,” said Charles Peabody, an analyst at Portales
Partners LLC in  New York .  The Basel committee said that banks in future could face
surcharges of up to 3.5 percent if they allow themselves to grow
even bigger or more systemically important.  This possibility won’t be exercised when the surcharges are
initially applied, and will be kept as a deterrent, the
committee said.  Cannes Summit  The Financial Stability Board, which includes regulators,
central bankers and financial-ministry officials from the Group
of 20 countries,  has said  that work on the surcharge rules
should be finished in time for them to be approved at a summit
of leaders from the G20 in Cannes, France, on Nov. 3-4.  The FSB last year instructed the Basel committee to draw up
the rules. The FSB next meets on Oct. 3.  The Basel committee said today it will publish details of
its surcharge plans “before” the G20 summit. Potential changes
“will be subject to additional testing by March 2012 using
updated bank data,” the committee said.  The group will seek views “in the coming weeks” on rules
for how much capital banks should hold to protect themselves
from the risk that a derivatives clearinghouse may default, the
committee said in today’s statement.  The committee will also “publish shortly” data on how
well nations have implemented capital rules for banks, both
to see whether deadlines are being respected and to “identify
differences that could raise level-playing-field concerns.”  Governments including the U.K. and  Sweden  have said that
European Union plans published in July may not sufficiently
respect agreements reached in Basel last year.  The European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm,
has said that it may deviate from draft liquidity rules and a
binding indebtedness limit agreed by the committee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Basel at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 