-- 
Bernanke Says U.S. Needs to Relearn Value of ‘Disciplined’ Fiscal Policy

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-09-28T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/bernanke-says-u-s-needs-to-relearn-value-of-budget-discipline.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the U.S. should learn from the success of many
emerging market economies and support strong economic growth
through responsible fiscal policy.  “Advanced economies like the  United States  would do well
to re-learn some of the lessons from the experiences of the
emerging market economies, such as the importance of disciplined
fiscal policies,” Bernanke said in prepared remarks for a
speech today in  Cleveland .  Bernanke echoed a theme from his remarks last month in
Jackson Hole, Wyoming that “most of the economic policies that
support robust economic growth in the long run are outside the
province of the central bank.” He didn’t address the outlook
for the U.S. economy or monetary policy in his remarks on
“Lessons from Emerging Market Economies on the Sources of
Sustained Growth.”  The speech is Bernanke’s first since the Fed announced last
week that it would replace $400 billion of short-term debt in
its portfolio with longer-term Treasuries in an effort to
further reduce borrowing costs and strengthen the flagging  U.S.
economy .  The so-called Operation Twist drew three dissents as
Bernanke struggled to build consensus behind plans to spur an
economy weighed down by 9.1 percent unemployment. U.S. growth
has flagged even as the Fed purchased $2.3 trillion in assets in
two rounds of quantitative easing and held  interest rates  near
zero since December 2008.  The experience of emerging markets shows “the need to
encourage private capital formation while undertaking necessary
public investments,” Bernanke said. He also cited open trade,
investment in education and technological advances and a
regulatory framework that “encourages entrepreneurship and
innovation while maintaining financial stability.”  Bernanke’s speech reviewed the recommendations of John Williamson, an economist and senior fellow at the Peterson
Institute for International Economics, a set of guidelines known
as the Washington Consensus.  During the U.S. recession from December 2007 to June 2009,
the BRIC nations of  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and  China  became the
engines of the global economy, with Chinese gross domestic
product expanding 7.9 percent even as the U.S. was still
contracting.  While emerging countries produced about 85 percent of
global economic growth since then, China, India and Brazil are
slowing after they lifted interest rates to curb inflation
following at least $870 billion of fiscal stimulus during the
financial crisis.  “Over time, as the emerging market countries become
wealthier and technologically more sophisticated, they will
gradually lose the advantages of starting from behind,”
Bernanke said.  Both emerging markets and advanced economies will have to
“do their part” to reduce global imbalances, Bernanke said.  -- Editors: James L Tyson, Chris Wellisz  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net 
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio, at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  