-- 
Amazon’s Bezos Fuels Tablet Wars With $199 Kindle

-- B y   B r a d   S t o n e
-- 
2011-09-28T13:45:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/bezos-portrays-pocket-sized-fire-as-service-not-tablet-in-ipad-challenge.html
Jeff Bezos  is channeling  Steve Jobs . It’s mid-September and the wiry billionaire founder of
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  is at his brand new corporate headquarters in
Seattle, in a building named “Day One South” after his
conviction that 17-year-old Amazon is still in its infancy.  Almost giddy with excitement, Bezos retrieves one by one
the new crop of dirt-cheap Kindle e-readers --- they start at
$79 --- from a hidden perch on a chair tucked into a conference
room table. When he’s done showing them off, he stands up, and,
for an audience of a single journalist, announces, “Now, I’ve
got one more thing to show you.” He waits a half-beat to make
sure the reference to Jobs’ famous line from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
presentations hasn’t been missed, then gives his notorious
barking laugh.  With that, Bezos pulls out the Kindle Fire, Amazon’s long-
anticipated tablet computer --- and the first credible response
to the Apple iPad,  Bloomberg Businessweek  reports in its Oct. 3
edition.  Unlike a wave of other tablets that have emerged hopefully
only to flop, such as the  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  TouchPad, the
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. Xoom, and the  Research in Motion
Ltd. (RIM)  PlayBook, the Kindle Fire has a good shot at turning the
newest theater of war in high-tech into a two-tablet battle.  $199 Fire  With a 7-inch display, the Fire is about half the size of
the iPad. At $199, it’s also less than half the price of the
cheapest Apple model. Amazon has painted over the rough surfaces
of  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system with a fresh and easy-
to-use interface and tied the device closely to its own large
and growing content library. Kindle Fire owners can watch the
film “Rio,” scroll through magazines such as The New Yorker or
Esquire, and access their music collection on Amazon’s servers.  “What we are doing is offering premium products at non-
premium prices,” Bezos says. Other tablet contenders “have not
been competitive on price” and “have just sold a piece of
hardware. We don’t think of the Kindle Fire as a tablet. We
think of it as a service.”  To demonstrate the Kindle Fire, Bezos pulls up a chair. He
proudly shows off a lightning-fast Web browser that runs on
Amazon’s EC2 cloud computing engine and Amazon’s version of the
Android app store, with over 10,000 games, e-mail programs,
shopping guides, and the like.  Bezos pauses briefly to exhibit his dexterity at a game
called “Fruit Ninja,” zapping watermelons and kiwis that fly
across the screen, and appears to momentarily lose himself in
the effort. “I do find it strangely therapeutic, uncomfortably
therapeutic,” he says.  No Camera  There are some limitations to the Kindle Fire. Unlike the
iPad 2, it doesn’t have embedded cameras or a microphone, and
there’s no 3G cellular connection, only Wi-Fi.  Its diminutive size, which makes it so handy for stashing
in a coat pocket, also makes it unlikely to satisfy more than
one antsy kid on a long car ride.  The versatile iPad 2, with its video chatting capabilities
and exquisite screen resolution, is a lifestyle-defining objet
d’art.  The stripped-down Fire is more of a sit-back-on-the-sofa-
and-shop device. It crystallizes the difference between Apple,
which tends to keep prices -- and profit margins -- high, and
Amazon, which likes to start low and drive lower in an effort to
knee-cap the competition. The tablet is symbolic of Amazon’s
ability to adapt and reluctance to cede the future to anyone. If
the Fire and its inevitable sequels are successful, they will
add even more might to one of the fastest-growing retail
operations the world has ever seen.  Largest Bookstore  Amazon’s 1990s slogan -- “Earth’s largest bookstore” --
stood for an ambition that now seems cute. Amazon boasted of its
unlimited selection of books, even though in most cases it was
simply having them shipped directly from distributors.  Today, Amazon sells millions of goods and services, from
toys and high-definition televisions to server space for other
Internet companies and digital reading devices for book lovers.
Borders Group Inc. found it impossible to match Amazon’s
selection and went out of business earlier this year.  Best Buy Co. has watched Amazon undercut it and commoditize
whole product categories, and is now trying to shrink the square
footage of its superstores.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  has struggled
to match the ease and reliability of Amazon’s shipping network,
and posted nine straight quarters of declining same-store sales.
Websites that have matched Amazon in selection, price, and
customer service -- Zappos, Diapers.com -- Bezos has quickly
acquired.  `Hyper Competitor'  “Amazon is not a fight-on-their-knees kind of company,”
says Rob Glaser, the Seattle-based entrepreneur behind
RealNetworks and now also a venture -capitalist at  Accel
Partners . “Jeff’s a hyper competitor.”  As its rivals steadily asphyxiate, Amazon is ringing up 50
percent growth in quarterly revenues, and may reach $50 billion
in sales this year.  Wal-Mart needed almost twice the time --- 33 years --- to
cross that threshold.  “Amazon is such a smart learning organization,” says Nancy F. Koehn, a professor of business administration at Harvard
Business School. “It’s like a biological organism that through
natural selection and adaptation just keeps learning and
growing.”  Amazon is also facing a new kind of challenge that
competitors like Wal-Mart are intimately familiar with ---
cultural backlash, or at least the early signs of it. The
company has been criticized for waging an expensive state-by-
state battle to avoid collecting sales taxes, and more recently
for skimping on air conditioning in its East Coast distribution
centers during a brutally hot summer.  Growing Dominance  If the Kindle Fire is half as good as it looked in Bezos’
conference room, it will fan the fears about Amazon’s growing
dominance. The tablet funnels users into Amazon’s meticulously
constructed world of content, commerce, and cloud computing.
Just like owners of Kindle e-reading devices tend to start
buying all their books from Amazon, Kindle Fire owners are
likely to hand over an increasing chunk of their entertainment
budget to Jeff Bezos.  Tablets represent an opportunity for Bezos not only to sell
a new kind of device but also to entice people to buy more
stuff.  Even with only 28.7 million iPads sold, e-commerce sites
say they see an increasing amount of traffic coming from
tablets. Forrester Research reported that online purchases made
on tablets now account for 20 percent of all mobile e-commerce
sales, and that almost 60 percent of tablet owners have used
them to shop.  `Huge Tailwind'  Bezos says tablets “are a huge tailwind for our business.”  Amazon once saw spikes in traffic during the workday lunch
hours. Now traffic is more evenly distributed as people pick up
their tablets anytime of the week, buying the books and albums
they see on television and making impulsive decisions about
replacing their dishwashers.  The Kindle Fire (internal code name: Otter) is designed to
ensure that even more of those purchases go to Amazon. The
company has built a tablet-optimized shopping application, with
simplified and streamlined pages with none of the clutter of the
main website. The app is pre-installed and sits at the bottom of
the Fire’s main screen (users can get rid of it if they want).  The device also comes with the enticement of a 30-day free
trial of Amazon Prime, the company’s $79-a-year two-day delivery
program that tends to convert members into Amazon addicts who
triple or even quadruple the amount they spend on the site.
Since March, Amazon has also administered its own app store for
Android devices, culling Google’s more comprehensive selection
and removing everything that’s offensive and unreliable.  Twitter, Facebook  Kindle Fire owners will have access to apps from Pandora
Media Inc., Twitter, Facebook, and  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  Although other
competitors like  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  can submit their apps, it
will be much easier for Kindle Fire owners to find Amazon’s own
content. That’s one reason Amazon is in the best position to turn
the tablet battle into a two combatant war.  The other is price. Analysts speculating on the new device
pegged the Kindle Fire at $250 to $300. (Companies like Samsung
and RIM have entered the tablet race with similar devices at
those prices and above.)  Bezos is able to go lower because he can make his profits on
media content and with additional subscriptions to Amazon Prime,
which then will drive additional purchases of toys, toasters,
diapers, etc. He’s also exploiting his company’s popular cloud
computing initiative, called Amazon Web Services.  `Extremely Low Margins'  Amazon saves money on the Kindle Fire by packing it with
only eight gigabytes of memory (the costliest version of the iPad
has 64 gigs), but owners of the device get to store as many
books, songs, movies, and personal documents on Amazon’s cloud
servers as they like for free.  Bezos won’t say whether he thinks he’ll lose money on the
device itself, only that he’s at ease flirting with red ink.  “Certainly this is a for-profit business,” he says. “Let’s
put it this way. We are and always have been very comfortable at
operating at extremely low margins.”  Though the decision to design and build its own hardware is
a high-stakes bet, it’s equally true that Bezos had no choice but
to enter the tablet business.  About 40 percent of Amazon’s revenue comes from media ---
books, music, and movies --- and those formats are rapidly going
digital.  Amazon was late to understand the speed of that transition;
Apple, which introduced the iPod in 2001 and iTunes two years
later, wasn’t. The iPad has only strengthened Apple’s hold over
digital media.  Kindle App  Although there’s a Kindle app for the iPad, Apple takes a 30
percent slice of all e-books Amazon sells on it and has
restricted Amazon and other app makers from directing iPad users
to their websites in order to avoid giving Apple its cut. Doing
business on the iPad threatens Amazon’s already thin profit
margins.  Bezos says he doesn’t think defensively.  “Everything we do is driven by seeing opportunity rather
than being worried about defending,” he says. Given Apple’s
inroads into the media business, that’s hard to believe. Bezos is
magnanimous toward Jobs.  “On a personal level we have a tremendous amount of respect
for Apple and Steve. I think that’s returned,” he says. “Our
cultures start in the same place. Both companies like to invent,
both companies like to pioneer, both companies start with the
customer and work backwards. There’s a like-mindedness.” Pause.
“Are two companies like Amazon and Apple occasionally going to
step on each other’s toes? Yes.”  E-Book Store  Amazon has recovered more quickly than other tech companies
in the race to catch up with Apple in digital media. Amazon
introduced an online TV and movie store in 2006, the Kindle e-
book store in 2007, and the MP3 digital music store in 2008.  Earlier this year, Amazon also aimed its sights on Netflix
with an Instant Video streaming service that’s free for members
of Amazon Prime, and it’s now spending hundreds of millions to
increase its catalog with TV shows and movies from studios like
 News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox and NBC Universal.  The music and video stores haven’t been huge hits. That may
change on the Kindle Fire. On a tablet those apps will give users
the impression that most songs, TV shows, and movies are just a
click away.  “We are leaning into this,” Bezos says. “It’s not a small
initiative for us.”  Amazon is also among the companies in the final round of
bidding for the online video site Hulu, according to people with
knowledge of that process who were not allowed to speak on the
record.  IPod Lessons  Apple’s success with the iPod taught the entire tech
industry another valuable lesson. There were other digital music
players on the market back in the 1990s, but Apple’s device,
which seamlessly blended hardware, software, and eventually an
online service in iTunes, made the experience simple and
unintimidating for non-techies.  There is a sense, as one easily holds the Kindle Fire in one
hand (try doing that with an iPad), that Bezos is working from
the same set of principles as Jobs: Content matters. Simplicity
is key. How do companies allow users to easily buy songs, movies,
and other digital goodies? They persuade customers to entrust
them with their credit cards--as both Amazon and Apple have done.
How do they ensure that the device is easy to use? They design
and build it themselves.  Making Own Hardware  “What should Amazon be doing in 20 years?”  That was the first question Bezos asked Jateen Parekh, a
Silicon Valley systems engineer who had worked for the digital
video recorder pioneer Replay-TV, an early TiVo rival, and
Philips Research, a division of the Dutch consumer electronics
maker.  It was August 2004, and Bezos and his new senior vice-
president in charge of worldwide digital media, Steven Kessel,
were exploring what seemed like a radical idea for an online
retailer: making their own hardware.  “The question impressed me,” recalls Parekh, who is now the
founder and chief technology officer of digital radio startup
Jelli. “The fact that the CEO was thinking that far out was
huge.”  Parekh joined Amazon that September, becoming the first
employee of Lab126, a secret Silicon Valley skunkworks. At
first, Parekh didn’t have an office to report to: He and the few
industrial designers and engineers hired soon after, including
Gregg Zehr, a former vice-president of hardware engineering at
Palm Computing, set up shop in an empty room in the offices of
A9, Amazon’s  Palo Alto , California-based search subsidiary.  Build an E-Reader  Parekh recalls spending his first few weeks investigating the
possibility of building Internet-connected set-top boxes and
even an MP3 player.  Bezos loved reading far more than listening to music, and
Amazon had deep expertise in the book market, so the next
decision was a natural one. Amazon’s new hardware geeks would
build an e-reader. Parekh and Zehr, who became president of the
new division, researched existing e-readers of the time, such as
the Sony Librie, which required AAA batteries, sold poorly, and
never made it out of  Japan . They concluded the market was wide
open.  “It was the one thing that wasn’t being done well by anyone
else out there,” Parekh says.  First though, Amazon’s engineers needed a better name for
the original “A2Z Development Corp.” Parekh and his colleagues
hated it, and thought it ill-suited to luring the best and
brightest engineers from places like Apple and Palm.  Lab126 Project  They eventually settled on the more mysterious “Lab126.”
The 1 stands for a, the 26 for z, a geeky naming convention
inside Amazon where groups like the personalization team are
referred to by the abbreviation P13N. (If you’re confused by
that, count the letters in the word “personalization.”)  Other people who worked for Lab126 in those early years
recall it as a loosely managed startup. The group piggybacked on
A9’s infrastructure for most the next year. When the search
division moved to the former offices of a Palo Alto law firm,
Lab126 moved with them and took up residence in the old law
library.  Lab126 was eventually given almost unlimited resources. It
also had to contend with the unfettered imagination of Bezos.
Amazon’s founder wanted his new -e-reading device to be drop-dead
simple to use and argued that configuring devices to Wi-Fi
networks was too complicated for non-tech-savvy users.  No PC Connection  He also didn’t want to force customers to connect the
device to a PC, so the only alternative was to build cellular
access right into the device, the equivalent of embedding a
wireless phone in the hardware. Nothing like that had been
tried before. Bezos insisted that customers should never have
to know the wireless connection was there or even pay for access.  “I thought it was insane, I really did,” Parekh recalls.  The effort to develop the first Kindle ended up taking more
than three years. Almost everything went wrong. The black and
white displays from E Ink, an offshoot of the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology Media Lab that makes screens resembling
the printed page and require very little power, would look good
for one month and then degrade alarmingly.  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , which was set to provide the wireless chips,
was sued by a competitor,  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) , and for months was
enjoined by a judge from selling its wares in the U.S.  The Lab126 team repeatedly urged Bezos to make their project
easier by considering a Wi-fi-only connection for the Kindle. He
rejected the idea, constantly suggesting new ones for complicated
features, like the notion that customers’ annotations of books
should be backed up on Amazon’s servers.  Code-Name `Fiona'  That original Kindle, code-named “Fiona” after a character
in Neal Stephenson’s futuristic novel “The Diamond Age,” was
finally ready to go in the fall of 2007.  Still, Amazon almost blew it. Modeling demand after the
first-year sales of the original iPod, Amazon underestimated what
a hit the Kindle would turn out to be. The first batch sold out
in just a few hours. Amazon then discovered that one of its
Taiwanese suppliers had discontinued a key part and spent months
getting a replacement.  “You look at the history of the Kindle, they developed some
real skills around the creation of that product. They’ve cut
their teeth so to speak,” says Brian Blair, a New York-based
analyst at Wedge Partners.  Making four successive versions of the Kindle e-reader also
led Amazon down the path toward the Kindle Fire. For years the
engineers at Lab126 tried to create a workable and reader-
friendly color Kindle, according to three former employees.  New Color Displays  New color display technologies like Qualcomm’s Mirasol and
another MIT IT-offshoot called Pixel Qi proved unreliable and
difficult to produce in large quantities. In January 2010, the
iPad demonstrated the broad appeal of a new kind of color LCD
tablet with better image quality, wider viewing angles, and,
near to Amazon’s heart, Apple’s own selection of e-books. People
close to Lab126 say that work on tablets, including the Kindle
Fire, started soon after.  Amazon’s devices division now employs around 800 hardware
and software engineers in Cupertino,  California , who fill up all
but one floor of an entire eight-floor office building and part
of a second building in the same office park, less than a mile
from Apple’s corporate headquarters.  In the unit’s industrial design lab, according to a person
who has visited that top-secret floor but was not authorized to
speak on the record, naked e-ink displays hang from the walls
with images from books imprinted on their screens.  E-Ink Screens  They’re used to demonstrate to potential new hires how an
e-ink screen can hold an image indefinitely without being
connected to a power supply.  There’s also another office of Kindle employees at Amazon’s
new corporate campus in the South Lake Union district of
Seattle, in a building nostalgically named “Fiona.” The group is
cordoned off from other Amazon employees, whose company badges
do not grant them access.  Bezos won’t say what kind of devices he’s cooking up next.
People with knowledge of the division’s plans say that the
Kindle Fire is only the first of a line of Amazon tablets, not
an isolated product, and that the group has always considered
the possibility of building Amazon cell phones and Internet-
connected TVs.  “We are a company with a lot of ideas,” Bezos says, when
asked directly about his plans. And then, of course, he laughs
uproariously.  Kindle Fire Impact  For those already competing with Amazon, the Kindle Fire
won’t be good news.  Kevin Ryan, the co-owner of Green Apple Books, a 44-year-
old bookstore in  San Francisco , says that Amazon has lowered the
prices in the book business beyond his ability to match them.
Amazon has also locked up several big authors to publishing
contracts, and though it says it will produce their books in
print as well as digital formats, that has competing retailers
nervous.  “They’re bullies. They really are. I think they really want
to be a monopoly,” Ryan says from the 8,000-square-foot store
that features tribal masks over the bookshelves, and which has
watched sales drop for much of the last decade.  Of the growing group of authors like George R.R. Martin
whose books have sold over a million digital copies through
Amazon, he says, “You have to assume that people joining the
million book Kindle club is taking business away from you.”  ShopRunner Program  In the past year major chains like Toys “R” Us Inc., Sports
Authority, and  RadioShack Corp (RSH) .have teamed up to combat Amazon’s
might, forming a free shipping program called ShopRunner that,
like Amazon Prime, also offers free two-day shipping for $79 a
year. It’s not clear yet how ShopRunner is doing; the group
won’t release subscriber numbers.  Fiona Dias, ShopRunner’s chief strategy -officer, says that
by locking in a new wave of customers with the Kindle Fire,
Amazon will make their jobs even harder.  “It’s a phenomenal concentration of power,” she says. “If
we were scared of Amazon in the Web world, we should be
absolutely terrified of them in the tablet world.”  It’s not just competitors that are assessing Amazon’s
dominance. Over the past year, lawmakers, the media, and even
some customers have begun weighing Amazon’s growing sales and
size against the impact for communities, commerce, and the local
job market.  Amazon has brought some of this scrutiny on itself. It
touts its hiring of workers for its growing network of shipping
centers, yet those jobs aren’t exactly plumb: They start at
around $11 an hour (with health benefits), and conditions can be
tough.  Few Perks  The recent newspaper account in the Allentown, Pennsylvania
Morning Call said that temperatures over the summer in a local
Amazon facility reached 120 degrees Fahrenheit (49 degrees
Celsius), and that workers who were slowed by the heat felt
penalized by their bosses. (Amazon has promised to put in air
conditioners.)  The report is consistent with a company that gives
employees few perks aside from 10 percent off $1,000 in annual
purchases. Unlike Google and Apple, Amazon doesn’t subsidize
meals or provide free sodas. Even the pet dogs of Amazon
employees get a better deal: There’s a bucket of free milk bones
at the front desk of every company building in Seattle.  The multi-state battle over state sales tax has created
perhaps the most controversy around Amazon. Legislators in more
than a dozen states, pressed by such politically connected
competitors as Wal-Mart, have been pushing Amazon to collect the
sales tax that their customers technically already owe on online
purchases, to better repair widening budget deficits and pay
firemen and school teachers.  California Compromise  Bezos has fought that effort, saying that only federal
legislation can overrule a U.S. Supreme Court ruling from 1992
that retailers with no physical presence in a state should not
have to pay sales tax there. Critics have charged he’s just
stringing out his price advantage as long as possible.  On Sept. 7, Amazon finally compromised in California,
agreeing to start collecting sales tax in the state by November
2012. Bezos says that by then the federal government will
uniformly set nationwide standards for the collection of online
sales tax.  “You have to do what you think is correct,” he says.
“Obviously we care about perception but we also value substance
and the right place to fix this is in federal legislation.”  Losing the tax advantage may not be such a bad thing. If and
when Amazon starts collecting sales tax, it will be free to set
up distribution centers right outside major cities, which would
enable even faster deliveries than it offers now.  Same-Day Deliveries  As part of Amazon’s deal with California, for example, the
company has pledged to spend $500 million on new warehouses
and hire 10,000 full-time workers and 25,000 seasonal employees.  Customers in California may soon end up getting same-day
deliveries of products and even produce. Amazon’s experimental
“Fresh” grocery program is now active in Seattle, where the
company already collects sales tax.  Nancy Koehn of Harvard Business School says Amazon may be
getting big enough for people to finally start considering the
ramifications -- for towns, shopping centers, and jobs --- of a
world dominated by online buying. She recently discussed Amazon
on Wisconsin Public Radio --- not the most neutral forum --- but
was surprised when almost all of the phone calls from listeners
were critical of the company.  “Americans get very nervous about centralized power that -
affects their communities,” she says. “We get a little bit
nervous about bigness, yet we want the convenience and the -
pricing and the material plenty that bigness allows.”  11 New Buildings  Amazon’s new Seattle campus testifies to that growing size.
The company has leased 11 brand new buildings in the burgeoning
South Lake Union neighborhood from real estate developer and
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  co-founder Paul Allen. It’s classic Amazon:
unostentatious, and no -company signs on any of the buildings.
The entire campus is due to be completed by 2013 and will host
several thousand employees, but the company is growing so fast,
it’s already looking for even more space.  In Day One South, Bezos would clearly rather discuss the
Kindle Fire than real estate, sales taxes, or air conditioning.
Former employees of Lab126 say the chief executive officer
spends an -unusual amount of his time delving into the gritty
details of his fledgling hardware business, and can happily talk
for hours about the location of this or that button on a device.  “I spent a huge amount of time working on Kindle Fire,” he
says.  He’s right to sweat the details, especially now that his
competition has gone from slow-moving big-box -retailers to tech
giants like Apple, which has even deeper deep pockets and is as
comfortable with long-term investments as Amazon.  “These industries are so big, there are going to be
multiple winners,” Bezos says. He’s been saying that for 10
years, during which time he’s helped consign Circuit City,
Borders, and others to oblivion. “When I look at something like
the Kindle Fire, what I want is to be one of the winners.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brad Stone in San Francisco at 
 bstone12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bradford Wieners in New York at 
 bwieners@bloomberg.net  