-- 
Billionaire Potanin May Seek Norilsk Control After Buyback

-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 
2011-09-29T13:51:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/billionaire-potanin-may-strengthen-grip-on-norilsk-after-buyback.html
Billionaire  Vladimir Potanin ’s
Interros Holding Co. may seek control of OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel
after a $4.5 billion buyback and stock cancellation, gaining the
upper hand in a shareholder dispute with United Co. Rusal.  Interros will tender a stake “proportionate” to its
holding in Norilsk, which is about 30 percent now, in the
buyback, Potanin said yesterday in an interview in Moscow. The
company will offer only those shares that aren’t needed as
collateral or in other stock transactions, Interros said today
by e-mail. It will then ask Norilsk to cancel repurchased stock,
Potanin said.  Interros and Oleg Deripaska’s Rusal, which holds 25 percent
of Norilsk, have been locked in a dispute over influence on the
board and use of the company’s cash since 2008. Rusal said Sept.
13 the buyback is solely in the interest of Interros, which aims
to take full control of Norilsk using the company’s own balance
sheet. Potanin said the principal reason for the buyback is to
bolster Norilsk’s shares in an “unstable” market.  Norilsk Nickel Investments Ltd. began a monthlong program
yesterday to repurchase 7.71 percent of the mining company’s
stock for as much as $306 a share, or $30.60 a depositary
receipt. Norilsk will buy stock on a pro-rata basis.  Raise Stake  Norilsk shares rose 7.35 percent yesterday to 6,998 rubles
($219.80), the biggest gain since January, as the company’s
buyback program started. That is 10 percent lower than this
year’s high in April. Norilsk is accepting bids until Oct. 28.  Norilsk plans to finance the buyback offer using its own
funds and current credit lines from banks, Potanin said.  Given that Rusal and some minority investors won’t
participate in the program, the shares sold by Interros may
amount to about $3 billion, with the balance bought back in the
market, Alexander Pukhaev, co-head of research at VTB Capital,
said by phone.  After a share cancellation, Interros’s stake would exceed
30 percent, Potanin said. Interros would then ask the Russian
government for permission to raise this to a controlling
interest, he said, adding that “we haven’t decided yet whether
we will increase it or not.”  Share Cancellation  Crossing the 30 percent threshold as a result of a share
cancellation doesn’t trigger the mandatory general offer usually
required under Russian rules.  To proceed with a cancellation, Norilsk Nickel Investments
will need to transfer shares to the parent company, and the
cancellation itself will need to be approved by Rusal.  If Rusal blocks the share cancellation, Norilsk may sell
the repurchased shares to the market, Potanin said.  “I hope Rusal won’t block the share cancellation as this
is a logical deal and it is in the interests of all
shareholders,” Potanin said.  Rusal says it has sought to annul Norilsk treasury stock.  “We consistently supported the idea of cancellation of
treasuries,” Deputy Chief Executive Officer Maxim Sokov told
reporters by phone today. “This time is no exception, though we
understand that Interros will benefit from it.”  State Approval  The buyback is structured to allow Interros to sell as many
shares as possible, Sokov said. Norilsk should get approval from
the Russian government to carry out the buyback under the
strategic companies law, Sokov said. Norilsk and Potanin
together form a group and any increase in their interest in the
company is subject to state approval, he said.  Erzhena Ishenko, Norilsk’s spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  Rusal has snubbed several buyout offers from Norilsk. The
latest buyback program was announced after the aluminum producer
rejected a proposal to sell a 15 percent stake back to Norilsk
for $8.75 billion.  Rusal Chairman  Viktor Vekselberg  aims to broker a deal with
fellow Rusal shareholders that if Norilsk offers about $18
billion they will agree to sell their stock, people with
knowledge of the matter said Sept. 20, declining to be
identified because the talks are confidential.  “Norilsk shouldn’t make a new buyout offer to Rusal in the
current unstable market situation, as it will cause an increase
in the company’s debt,” Potanin said yesterday. A possible deal
with Rusal may be discussed only if the price is appropriate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  