-- 
Bill Haas Gets U.S. Presidents Cup Pick, Norman Chooses Allenby, Baddeley

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-28T04:54:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/bill-haas-gets-u-s-presidents-cup-pick-norman-chooses-allenby-baddeley.html
Bill Haas was selected by U.S.
captain  Fred Couples  for golf’s  Presidents Cup  after winning the
Tour Championship and FedEx Cup. Australians Robert Allenby and
Aaron Baddeley were added to the international team.  Couples said last month that one of his two selections
would be Tiger Woods, a 14-time major tournament champion who
has slipped to 50th in the Official World Golf Ranking during a
22-month winless streak.  Haas beat Hunter Mahan in a three-hole playoff on Sept. 25
at the Tour Championship to also claim the U.S. PGA Tour’s
season-long FedEx Cup and its $10 million bonus. Haas’s father,
Jay, is an assistant coach for the U.S. team.  Allenby and Baddeley were selected by Greg Norman, captain
of the international squad, which features golfers from outside
the U.S. and  Europe .  While Woods will make his seventh straight Presidents Cup
appearance, Haas will be the sixth player on the roster to make
his debut in the competition. Matt Kuchar, Dustin Johnson, Bubba Watson,  Webb Simpson  and Nick Watney are also newcomers to the
biennial event.  Mahan, Steve Stricker,  Phil Mickelson , David Toms and Jim Furyk complete the 12-man American team.  Allenby and Baddeley join fellow Australians Jason Day,
 Adam Scott  and Geoff Ogilvy on the international team. Also on
the roster are South Africa’s Charl Schwartzel, Retief Goosen
and Ernie Els, South Koreans K.J. Choi, Kyung-tae Kim and Y.E.
Yang, and Japan’s Ryo Ishikawa.  The Presidents Cup is scheduled for Nov. 17-20 at Royal
Melbourne Golf Club in Victoria,  Australia . The U.S. holds a 6-
1-1 lead in the event, which debuted in 1994.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  