-- 
BlackRock Says Insurers May Be ‘Next Phase’ of Loan Capital

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   R i c h a r d   B r a v o
-- 
2011-09-28T11:30:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/blackrock-says-insurers-may-be-next-phase-of-loan-capital-as-clos-recede.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest
asset manager, said insurers may buy leveraged loans as they
seek to boost portfolio returns, replacing investors that
retreated from the market.  The firm, which manages over $200 billion in general-
account assets for more than 150 insurance companies, is
pitching loans as clients seek to diversify.  Aflac Inc. (AFL) , the
largest provider of supplemental health coverage, separately
initiated a program in May for investing in the debt to U.S. and
Canadian corporations, aiming to increase yields and protect
against rising rates. Reinsurer  Everest Re Group Ltd. (RE)  has also
added loans to its portfolio.  “Insurance companies will be the next phase of capital
into the market,” BlackRock’s Leland Hart, who oversees more
than $10 billion in loans, said in a phone interview.  Insurers have been shifting assets as the  Federal Reserve 
keeps benchmark  interest rates  in a target range of zero to 0.25
percent. BlackRock, based in New York, is seeking capital for a
market that shrank by about 13 percent since the 2008 collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. caused investors to shun
riskier assets such as high-yield, high-risk loans.  Aflac had invested $72 million in secured loans as of June
30 and may spend more as it contracts with asset managers to
oversee as much as 10 percent of its $93 billion portfolio.
Leveraged loans to corporations are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  ‘Pretty Solid’  “When we look at the fundamentals of the underlying
companies, they’re actually pretty solid,” Eric Kirsch, who was
named Aflac’s global chief investment officer last week, said in
a phone interview after his hire was announced. Loans are one of
the asset classes that the company may invest in to diversify
its balance sheet, he said.  Everest Re has added high-yield, floating-rate loans to its
portfolio as investment-grade fixed-income investments mature,
Jack Nelson, chief investment officer, said yesterday at the
Reactions Magazine  North America  Conference in New York. The
shift is part of a strategy to boost the Bermuda-based company’s
investment returns, he said.  Syndicated loans are one way that insurers are seeking to
improve yield in their investment portfolios, said Matt Malloy,
head of insurance for North America at JPMorgan Asset
Management, during a panel discussion at the Reactions
conference.  Focused on Yield  Insurers are “focusing on yield in other areas outside of
traditional fixed income,” said Malloy. That includes
investments in emerging-market debt, high-dividend stocks and
private-market credit such as mezzanine finance and senior
direct lending, he said.  Insurers historically have been more active investors in
the high-yield  bond market  than the loan market, in part because
the securities often lack call protection, said  Chris Taggert , a
senior analyst at research firm CreditSights Inc. That makes
income from debt instruments harder to match to an insurer’s
return requirements, he said. The call feature aids investors by
penalizing issuers if they redeem debt before it matures.  Most loans are floating-rate instruments based off the
London interbank offered rate, or Libor. Three-month Libor for
dollar loans rose to 0.36856 percent from 0.36522 percent
yesterday, according to data from the British Bankers’
Association.  “Some of the challenges that didn’t make loans all that
appealing in the past still remain,” said Taggert, in a phone
interview. “If you’re an investor who is seeking to earn a
current income, low Libor is a factor.”  Average Libor  The average minimum Libor that companies offered was 1.375
percent for the month ended Sept. 15, according to  Standard &
Poor’s  Leveraged Commentary & Data.  Owning fixed-income securities that don’t use U.S.
benchmark rates may be a benefit, said BlackRock’s Hart. The Fed
has pledged to keep its benchmark rate low through mid-2013 if
unemployment stays high and the inflation outlook is
“subdued.”  “Every insurer is looking at yield, and they’re also
saying to themselves, ‘Should we be tied to the mast of U.S.
government rates as our benchmark, given where rates are and
predicted to be through 2013,’” said Hart.  Pricing for loans rated B+ or B rose to 577 basis points in
the month ended Sept. 15, according to S&P’s LCD. The average
all-in spread -- which includes upfront fees amortized over an
assumed three-year life and Libor floors -- was at a record low
of 214 basis points in February 2007 as the buyout boom was
peaking. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Call Protection  Terms for some loans may be changing. Lenders are asking
for call protection on loans, which may make them more
attractive to insurers, said Richard Farley, a New York-based
attorney with Paul Hastings LLP, which advises banks that
syndicate loans.  “Insurance money has become a lot more relevant in terms
of what you need to get a deal done because the retail money
isn’t there,” he said.  Insurers purchased 6.7 percent of loans sold to
institutional investors in the second quarter, up from 1.9
percent in 2008, according to S&P LCD. Those figures may
understate the companies’ investments in the asset class because
they don’t include funds managed for insurers by outside firms.  The notional volume of the Standard & Poor’s/LSTA Loan
index was $519 billion in August, down 12.6 percent from 2008
when it was $594 billion, according to a report by  New York- 
based CreditSights.  Replacing CLOs  Collateralized loan obligations, which pool leveraged loans
and slice them into securities of varying risk and return, once
dominated the primary institutional loan market. Their share has
contracted along with the decline in volume. CLOs comprised 41.5
percent of the market in the second quarter this year, down from
52.2 percent in 2008 and 66.7 percent in 2002, according to S&P
LCD.  The total return on the S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100
Index, which tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-
lien leveraged loans, was down 2.4 percent this year through
yesterday. It declined 4.9 percent in August, the biggest
monthly slide since November 2008. U.S. high-yield bonds have
lost 0.14 percent this year, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. The debt lost 4 percent in August.  The insurance industry’s investment in loans won’t happen
immediately, said BlackRock’s Hart.  Insurers are “a very deliberate investor class,” he said.
“This is pragmatic, step-by-step thoughtfulness. It won’t be a
flood, but rather a consistent stream.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Bravo in New York at 
 rbravo5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Faris  Khan at   fkhan33@bloomberg.net  