-- 
BNP Favors Asia Dollar Bonds as Samsung Asset Avoids Sliding Rupiah, Rupee

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 
2011-09-28T06:20:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/bnp-favors-asia-dollar-bonds-as-samsung-asset-avoids-sliding-rupiah-rupee.html
The worst quarterly slide in Asian
currencies in three years is spurring BNP Paribas Investment
Partners and Samsung Asset Management Co. to shift funds into
the region’s dollar-denominated bonds.  Asia ’s local-currency debt lost 1.5 percent this quarter
through yesterday, while dollar notes declined 1.4 percent,
according to HSBC Holdings Plc indexes. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan
Asia Dollar Index dropped 3 percent since June 30, set for the
worst quarter since September 2008, as  Europe ’s fiscal crisis
and a U.S. economic slowdown damped appetite for riskier
emerging-market assets.  India ’s rupee and South Korea’s won
dropped 9 percent. Malaysia’s ringgit fell 4.7 percent and
 Indonesia ’s rupiah weakened 4.2 percent.  “We have reduced everything to zero in the Asian local-
currency space and put everything into dollars,” Adeline Ng,
who helps oversee the equivalent of $21 billion in Asian assets
as regional head of fixed income at BNP Paribas Investment
Partners, said in a phone interview from  Tokyo  on Sept. 23.
“This  risk aversion  will continue in the near term given
there’s a lot of uncertainty coming from the  euro zone .”  Foreign ownership of Indonesian debt fell 11 percent from
an all-time high of 251.23 trillion rupiah ($28 billion) on Sept.
9, according to data on the nation’s  Finance Ministry ’s website.
Net additions to overseas holdings of Korean debt shrank 95
percent in August from July to 134 billion won ($115 million),
figures from the Financial Supervisory Service showed.  Emerging-Market Outflows  Emerging-market bond funds had their biggest net capital
outflows since the second quarter of 2009 in the week ended Sept.
21 as investors withdrew $692 million, including $464 million
from local-currency funds, EPFR Global data show. In the past
three weeks, developing-nation dollar debt funds posted inflows
of $99.4 million, while funds focused on local currencies took
in $24.9 million. U.S. Treasuries rose 5.8 percent as about $9
trillion in global stock-market value has been erased since June.  Failure to combat the turmoil spurred by  Greece  threatens
“cascading default, bank runs and catastrophic risk,” U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  warned over the weekend.
The  International Monetary Fund  lowered its forecast for 2011
global economic growth this week to 4 percent from 4.3 percent.
Developing Asia will grow 8.2 percent this year and 8.0 percent
in 2012, IMF estimates show.  Samsung Asset,  South Korea ’s biggest fund manager, may
avoid purchases of Asia’s local debt when it starts a global
fund later this year because of the region’s exchange-rate
declines, according to Sungjin Park, Seoul-based chief
investment officer for fixed income.  ‘Flight to Quality’  “With new money coming in, we refrain from parking it in
local-currency debt because global financial uncertainties
persist and the flight-to-quality trend favors the dollar,”
Park, head of the $69 billion debt division, said in an
interview on Sept. 26. “The risk for further weakness in
emerging-market currencies remains and we will likely add to
dollar-denominated regional bonds.”  The $59 billion U.S.-incorporated Templeton Global Bond
Fund, which mainly buys sovereign debt, lost 5.4 percent in the
past three months, leaving it down 0.8 percent in the past year,
Bloomberg data show. The fund had 44.7 percent of its money in
Asia including  Japan  as of Aug. 31, according to the company.
Average returns totaled 10 percent over the past five years,
beating 97 percent of rivals.  Michael Hasenstab , who runs the fund, said in a statement
on Sept. 22 that the losses resulted from selloffs in  currency
markets  caused by speculative investors and don’t reflect
fundamental problems.  ‘Attractive Levels’  This “short period of market volatility typically allows
us to build positions at what we regard as attractive levels,”
said Hasenstab, who is based in San Mateo,  California .  Jim Cielinski, London-based head of fixed income at
Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd., which has assets under
management of $110 billion globally, said he would take
advantage of the decline in bond prices to buy.  “Emerging-market local-currency bonds were actually
crowded trades,” Cielinski said in  Hong Kong  on Sept. 21.
“There’s a good reason for that and that’s why I think of this
as an opportunity. I’d think we are near the end of this recent
downtrend of a lot of these Asian local currencies.”  BNP Paribas’s Ng, who exited Asian local-currency debt at
the end of July, said she may wait six months before buying the
securities back. Her BNP Paribas L1 Bond Asia ex-Japan fund,
which lost 0.2 percent in the past year, now holds cash and
Asian dollar notes with relatively high debt ratings, such as
sovereign and quasi-sovereign securities of South Korea,
 Malaysia  and Hong Kong.  Room for Gains  “In the near term, the sentiment will continue to be
rather negative,” she said. “In the more medium-term view, we
still believe Asian currencies have room to appreciate on the
basis of the growth differential.”  Mirae Asset Global Investments, South Korea’s biggest
mutual fund manager, is increasing cash that it will reinvest in
emerging markets when Europe’s debt crisis eases.  “The solutions to overcome Europe’s debt crises may arise
by year-end or sometime in November,” said New York-based Heo Joon Hyuk, who manages 1.4 trillion won ($1.2 billion) as head
of global fixed income at Mirae Asset. “We expect emerging-
market currencies to recover quickly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoungwha Kim in Beijing at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  