-- 
BOE Says Bank Earnings Outlook May Limit Capital Raising

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-09-28T11:48:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/boe-says-bank-earnings-outlook-may-limit-balance-sheet-repair.html
The  Bank of England ’s Financial
Policy Committee said market strains related to the euro-area
debt crisis have dented the outlook for bank earnings and may
impede their ability to strengthen balance sheets.  “The committee had advised U.K. banks in June that if
their earnings were strong, they should seek to build capital
levels further,” it said in London today. “But events had
lowered the likelihood that banks would be able to strengthen
their balance sheets in this way over the short term.”  Finance ministers and central bankers at the International
Monetary Fund’s and  World Bank ’s annual meeting last week urged
European officials to intensify efforts to contain the region’s
debt crisis amid the specter of a Greek default. Today’s FPC
report recommended that banks take “any opportunity” to
strengthen capital and liquidity.  “This could include raising long-term funding whenever
possible and ensuring that” any profit decline is reflected in
“discretionary distributions” such as pay and dividends,
according to the report. In the event of a shock, it “would be
natural for banks’ capital and liquidity ratios to be run down
to ensure that lending” isn’t constrained.  The interim FPC, which met Sept. 20, also said there have
been “severe strains in financial markets” since its last
meeting in June.  These “stemmed in large part from continuing concerns”
about debt levels in some nations, the committee said. “Anxiety
about the consequences of these issues for banks had increased
materially and, in turn, the perceived vulnerabilities of banks
were adding to strains.”  Rights Issues  “It leaves the door open for rights issues,” said Cormac Leech, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity Ltd. in  London .
“Essentially the Bank of England is saying, ‘we want you to
keep lending to the real economy; if you’re not able to do it,
run your  capital ratios  down and raise more capital.’”  The IMF said in a report this month that the euro-region
crisis has left European lenders with as much as 300 billion
euros ($408 billion) of credit risk. The Bank of England said in
a separate report today that lenders in a survey “pointed to
adverse wholesale conditions as a key factor which might
constrain future lending.”  The FPC met 12 days after the bank’s Monetary Policy
Committee voted to maintain the key  interest rate  at a record
low and leave its bond-purchase plan unchanged. Most MPC
officials said it was “increasingly probable” that more
stimulus may be needed to bolster the recovery.  Easing Pressure  “This announcement by the FPC is a good illustration of
how macroprudential policy is viewed as a useful complement to
monetary policy,” said  Simon Hayes , an economist at  Barclays
Capital  in London and a former central bank official. “The Bank
of England now has a vehicle for more direct intervention in
credit markets, taking some of the pressure off monetary policy
for controlling the credit cycle.”  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  swung into a loss in the
first half on writedowns on Greek debt and costs for
compensating insurance clients.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  said last month it
plans to cut about 3,000 jobs this year after second-quarter
investment banking profit fell 27 percent amid a “difficult
operating environment.”  Europe’s Stoxx 600 Index fell 0.3 percent as of 12:47 p.m.
in London. It has tumbled 22 percent from its 2011 high on Feb.
17. The Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and Financial Services Index fell
1 percent, taking its decline this year to 30 percent.  Tools  The FPC, part of a regulatory overhaul by Britain’s
government, said it will continue to debate which tools it will
need to promote financial stability once its powers are finally
established. It said it may need power over the balance sheets
of financial institutions, terms and conditions of some
transactions and market structures.  Among the tools it considered were maximum leverage ratios,
countercyclical capital and liquidity buffers, limits on loan-
to-value ratios and disclosure requirements. The FPC is due to
report to the U.K. Treasury in the first half of 2012 and said
today it may initially recommend a “relatively narrow” set of
tools that could be broadened over time.  In its Credit Conditions Survey, the  Bank of England  said
that the availability of secured credit to households increased
in the three months to early September and lenders expected
availability to increase a “little further” in the coming
three months. Demand for such loans also increased.  Lenders in the survey reported that default rates on
mortgages fell in the last three months and were expected to be
unchanged in the coming quarter. The survey was conducted from
Aug. 16 to Sept. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  