-- 
Boots Health Chief Gourlay Sees Low Growth in U.K. for 12 Months

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-09-28T12:19:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/boots-health-chief-gourlay-sees-low-growth-in-u-k-for-12-months.html
Alliance Boots Holdings Ltd., owner
of Britain’s largest drugstore chain, said it expects low growth
to continue in the U.K. for the next 12 months as consumers curb
spending.  “It’s got harder recently, and my own view is that will
continue, but consumers will come out at Christmas a bit more,”
Alex Gourlay, head of the company’s health and beauty unit, said
in an interview at the World Retail Congress in Berlin today.
“It may get easier in some dimensions over the 12 months
ahead,” as the effects of a value-added tax increase imposed at
the beginning of 2011 wear off next year.  The  International Monetary Fund  lowered U.K. economic
growth forecasts on Sept. 20, predicting gross-domestic product
increases of 1.1 percent for 2011 and 1.6 percent in 2012, and
said the government may need to delay some measures aimed at
narrowing the  budget deficit . Britain’s VAT rate was raised to
20 percent this year from 17.5 percent in 2010.  Alliance Boots has had a “solid summer,” with new
products in its No. 7 beauty range helping growth, Gourlay said.  “We’re happy with the performance in tough markets, and
the international performance is doing well,” he said. “The
balance between international growth and organic growth makes us
feel OK.”  Trading profit, or profit from operations excluding
amortization and one-time gains or costs, rose 14 percent in the
year through March as the Nottingham, England-based retailer
acquired businesses and began selling products such as the Boots
Laboratories Serum 7 skin-care range overseas.  Alliance Boots said in May that it’s considering
acquisitions for the wholesale division and expanding sales
partnerships to counter a “subdued” consumer market. The
retailer said in July that it’s in talks on buying a stake in
the parent company of Chinese drug wholesaler Nanjing
Pharmaceutical Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in Berlin via 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  