-- 
Borrowing Costs Plummeting Across U.S. for Local Governments: Muni Credit

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e   a n d   A n d r e a   R i q u i e r
-- 
2011-09-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/borrowing-costs-plummeting-across-u-s-for-local-governments-muni-credit.html
This was supposed to be the worst
year ever for U.S. states and municipalities. Instead, they are
obtaining money at the lowest  interest rates  in more than two
years after predictions of rising defaults failed to
materialize.  Issuers led by  Massachusetts ,  Mississippi  and the Port
Authority of New York and New Jersey plan to sell about $67
billion of long-term tax-exempt debt from July through this
month, the first time since at least 2003 that third-quarter
offerings will rise from the previous three months, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The sales follow a drop in municipal-bond defaults to about
$1.1 billion this year, a quarter of last year’s total,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Local general-
obligation bonds have accounted for only 1 percent of the 2011
failures. Banking analyst  Meredith Whitney  predicted on the CBS
“60 Minutes” show in December that the next 12 months would
see “hundreds of billions of dollars” of defaults.  While defaults have declined, state and local government
revenue rose 6.9 percent in April through June compared with a
year earlier, the biggest increase since the second quarter of
2006 and the seventh-straight quarter of growth, the  U.S. Census
Bureau  said yesterday. The higher collections, along with the
lowest long-term muni rates since January 2009, are encouraging
issuers to borrow for capital projects, Justin Hoogendoorn,
managing director of the strategic analytic group at BMO Capital
Markets in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview.  “They’ve had the benefit of improved revenue forecasts
that allows them to start a few more capital projects and not
have to cut quite as badly as what they originally thought,”
Hoogendoorn said.  Fed’s Plan  The  Federal Reserve  last week said it would buy long-term
Treasuries to reduce interest rates on mortgages and loans in an
attempt to spur economic growth. The announcement created a
rally that pushed down municipal borrowing costs. Yields on 30-
year top-rated tax-exempt bonds hovered at 3.47 percent
yesterday after falling to 3.46 percent on Sept. 26, the lowest
level since January 2009, when Bloomberg data for the securities
begins.  The  Port Authority  and Massachusetts issued debt in the
past week for projects ranging from reconstruction at the  World
Trade Center site  to the renovation of roads and bridges. The
estimated $67 billion of third-quarter issuance follows $55.8
billion of municipal bonds sold in the second quarter and $43
billion during the first three months of the year.  Sagging Sales  Municipal sales sagged at the start of 2011 after cities
and states accelerated borrowing last year to take advantage of
the taxable Build America Bond program and its 35 percent
subsidy on interest costs that expired Dec. 31,  Richard Ciccarone , managing director at McDonnell Investment Management
in  Oak Brook ,  Illinois , said in a telephone interview. The Build
America program funded infrastructure projects and was part of
President Barack Obama’s $825 billion economic-stimulus package.  Lower borrowing costs are encouraging lawmakers reluctant
to take on additional debt, said Ciccarone. “That’s breaking
down a little bit in part because the attractiveness of the
rates is so strong,” Ciccarone said.  California  this month paid 88 percent less on a $5.4
billion note sale compared with a comparable issue in November.
It also sold $2.4 billion of long-term bonds this month with
yields about a third less than two years ago.  Record Low Rates  Yields on top-rated 10-year municipals were 2.02 percent
yesterday after falling to 2 percent on Sept. 23, the lowest
level since 2009, when Bloomberg records for the debt begins.
Municipals maturing in 10 years produced a total return of 9.47
percent this year, according to a  Barclays Capital  index that
includes tax-exempt bonds with a weighted credit rating of Aa2
to Aa3.  Municipal issuance next year should return to its typical
pattern of a busy first six months followed by a slow third
quarter, said Jay Saakvitne, a managing director in U.S. public
finance at Barclays Capital in  New York .  “The things that caused this year’s aberration were one-
time effects,” Saakvitne said. “It’s more likely that we’ll go
back to a more standard calendar with heavier issuance in the
first half of the year.”  Following is a description of a pending sale of municipal
debt:  LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT plans to sell $400
million of tax-exempt general-obligation bonds as soon as today
to refinance debt. Los Angeles County property taxes will back
the securities, which are rated Aa2, Moody’s Investors Service’s
third-highest grade. Citigroup Inc. will lead the marketing of
the deal. (Added Sept. 28)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Riquier in New York at 
 ariquier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  