-- 
Brazil Rate Futures Yields Fall as Europe Debt Crisis Fuels Bets

-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 
2011-09-28T21:35:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/brazil-rate-futures-fall-as-european-crisis-fuels-rate-cut-bets.html
Yields on most Brazilian interest-
rate futures contracts fell as the deepening debt crisis in
 Europe  fueled bets the central bank will continue lowering
borrowing costs.  Yields on the contract due in January 2013 declined two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 10.41 percent at 5
p.m. in  New York .  Traders are betting Brazilian central bank President
Alexandre Tombini will continue cutting interest rates to shield
the economy from a European banking crisis that is hurting
global growth. Tombini reduced the benchmark  interest rate  a
half point to 12 percent on Aug. 31, after raising it at the
previous five policy meetings, citing a “substantial
deterioration” in the global economy.  “This most recent volatility gives the central bank
assurance to continue with its monetary policy,” said  Luciano Rostagno , head strategist at CM Capital Markets in a telephone
interview from Sao Paulo. “The market is beginning to believe
in more aggressive cuts.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks lost 2.1
percent as investors watched for signs of progress in Europe’s
efforts to stem the government debt crisis. The S&P GSCI Index
of commodities slumped 2.7 percent.  Traders are betting policy makers will lower the benchmark
Selic rate by as much as 75 basis points at their meeting Oct.
19, according to Bloomberg estimates based on interest-rate
futures contracts.  Inflation Outlook  “The external scenario goes in hand with what the central
bank has been saying in its documents,” Mauro Schneider, an
economist with Banif Corretora, said in a telephone interview
from Sao Paulo. “This type of environment gives the central
bank space to be more aggressive.”  Brazil ’s inflation rate will fall before the end of the
year to below the 6.5 percent upper limit of the government’s
target range, Tombini told reporters in Brasilia yesterday.  Analysts forecast consumer prices will rise 6.52 percent
this year, the first time inflation would miss the target since
2003, according to a central bank survey of economists published
Sept. 26.  The real declined 1.9 percent to 1.8408 per dollar, from
1.8059 yesterday. The currency has lost 14 percent this month,
the worst performer 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  Investors will continue seeking dollar-denominated assets
instead of reais as long as the European debt crisis roils
markets, said Jose Carlos Amado, a currency trader at Renascenca
DTVM.  “There’s not a lot of room for the dollar to weaken
because of this external uncertainty, because something negative
could still come out of Europe,” Amado said in a telephone
interview from  Sao Paulo .  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Josue Leonel} in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
{Gabrielle Coppola} in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  