-- 
Brazil Wireless Market to Grow With Virtual Networks in 2012

-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s
-- 
2011-09-28T21:05:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/brazil-mobile-phone-market-to-grow-with-virtual-networks-in-2012.html
Virtual wireless carriers will
boost  Brazil ’s mobile-phone market when they start operations
next year, with companies such as  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  showing
interest in the segment, said the country’s telecommunications
regulator.  The operators may account for as much as 5 percent of the
market next year, said Emilia Maria Ribeiro, a commissioner for
Brazil’s telecommunications regulator, Anatel. The companies,
known as MVNOs for mobile virtual network operators, buy
wireless network capacity or lease network equipment from
carriers and resell the airtime to users.  Petrobras, Brazil’s state-controlled oil company, has
sought information on MVNO licenses, Ribeiro said without giving
details. Others requesting information include the country’s
airport operator, Infraero, and the postal carrier, Correios.
Anatel is already evaluating 50 company requests for MVNO
approvals, she said.  “MVNOs are a great business and, since we’re an emerging
country, we could see extreme growth in the next few years,”
the commissioner said in a Sept. 23 interview in Brasilia.
“Telecom companies that already own airwaves need to nurture
their use.”  The MVNO system allows companies such as banks and
retailers to buy airwaves from carriers and sell mobile phones
with their own brand, said Ribeiro.  Carriers Can Sell  Among the carriers that can sell airwaves to MVNOs are Rio
de Janeiro-based  Tim Participacoes SA (TCSL4)  and  Tele Norte Leste
Participacoes SA (TNLP3) , as well as Sao Paulo-based Vivo Participacoes
SA, America Movil SAB’s Claro SA, Sercomtel Telecomunicacoes SA,
 NII Holdings Inc. (NIHD)  and Cia. de Telecomunicacoes do Brasil
Central.  Anatel forecasts mobile-phone connections in Brazil will
reach 270 million by 2012, including 13.5 million carried
through MVNOs, or 5 percent of the total market, said Ribeiro.
This year, the regulator foresees 240 million mobile
connections, 18 percent more than in 2010.  Petrobras’s press office said the company won’t comment
about its interest in MVNOs. Infraero is monitoring the subject
and doesn’t have a project in development at the moment, said an
official at the airport operator who can’t be named under the
agency’s policy.  Brazil’s First MVNO  Anatel approved virtual network operations in November
2010. The only deal closed so far was between Tim and  Porto
Seguro SA (PSSA3) , a Sao Paulo-based insurance company, which resulted
in Porto Seguro Telecomunicacoes, a joint service venture with
Datora Telecom. That company will be Brazil’s first MVNO, said
Tim in its quarterly report to analysts. The company will begin
operations in January, said Ribeiro.  MVNOs will help boost traditional carriers’ client base by
offering services to different market niches, said the
commissioner. A wine company or a supermarket chain, for
example, could tie a minute-based deal package to the client’s
spending profile, Ribeiro said.  Anatel has two kinds of permits for MVNOs. One authorizes
the company to use regular carriers’ frequency bands and
transmission systems to sell mobile phone service. The other
option allows companies to act as resellers, able to offer
different kinds of service.  “Carriers will boost their client base and will be able to
have different pricing for different kinds of services,” said
Ribeiro. “Each company will have its own business model.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  