-- 
BTA Seeks $1 Billion From Farmer Amid Fight With Ex-Chairman

-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 
2011-09-29T10:39:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/bta-seeking-1-billion-from-farmer-amid-fight-with-ex-chairman.html
BTA Bank is suing a farmer from a
“distant village” in Belarus to wrest control of assets it
alleges were pilfered by former management before the Kazakh
lender defaulted on $12 billion of debt two years ago.  The claim is the biggest against former chairman Mukhtar Ablyazov pursued in  London  by the bank as it seeks to recover $5
billion in the U.K., First Deputy Chief Executive Officer
Nikolai Varenko said in an interview in Almaty Sept. 26.  BTA, which reached a restructuring accord with creditors
last year, has filed a series of civil cases against Ablyazov
and ex-Chief Executive Officer Roman Solodchenko in the U.K.
courts over claims they siphoned money from the bank using fake
loans. Varenko says his team is struggling to recover $13.8
billion in impaired loans, almost 80 percent of the $17.5
billion portfolio inherited from previous management.  Ablyazov and Solodchenko say the cases were filed because
Ablyazov attempted to mount a political challenge to Kazakh
President Nursultan Nazarbayev, who has governed the former
 Soviet Union ’s second-biggest energy producer for two decades.
Ablyazov had about $5 billion of assets placed in receivership
during an embezzlement lawsuit in London after losing an appeals
court ruling last December.  The yield on BTA’s dollar-denominated notes due in 2018
increased for the first day in three, jumping 54 basis points,
or 0.54 percentage point, at 3:21 p.m. Almaty time. The bank is
rated B-, six levels below investment grade, by Standard &
Poor’s and Fitch and has the same credit ranking at Moody’s
Investors Service  The Beneficiary  BTA alleges the farmer is the beneficiary of the companies
that borrowed $1 billion to buy oil equipment and is also behind
the suppliers that never delivered on the contract, according to
Varenko.  The farmer’s lawyers have been unable to explain why he
took out the loan and need four months before clarifying their
position, a stalling tactic that the bank is trying to ward off,
Varenko said.  Ablyazov, who fled from  Kazakhstan  to London to escape
prosecution, has faced a possible prison sentence after BTA said
in May he violated a freezing order by hiding some of his
assets, including a stake in a Moscow skyscraper development and
about 600 shell companies.  ‘No Improper Loans’  BTA Bank “made no improper loans during the period of Mr.
Ablyazov’s chairmanship,” Locksley Ryan, Ablyazov’s London-
based spokesman, said by phone today. “Mr. Varenko is raising
no new issues and one wonders if he is raising these now because
of allegations against the current management.”  The Kazakh newspaper Megapolis said Sept. 19 the
authorities are investigating three BTA managing directors for
fraud. The managers acted as intermediaries and received
kickbacks for arranging repayments to BTA creditors from its
borrowers that bypassed the bank itself, the Almaty-based
newspaper said, adding that Varenko was also suspected of
involvement in the case.  The Astana-based Prosecutor General’s Office didn’t respond
to a request for comment faxed by Bloomberg on Sept. 20.  “I’m not a suspect in any case, and don’t have any open
issues with law-enforcement bodies,” Varenko said, adding that
one of the managers under investigation was his subordinate who
resigned in August. He declined to comment if such a probe
existed or whether the managers inflicted any losses on BTA.  Siphoned Money  “I am not aware of any charges issued and proved in court
about the money siphoned from BTA after the government took over
the bank,” he said.  Sovereign wealth fund Samruk-Kazyna took over BTA in
February 2009, two months before it defaulted, when credit
markets froze and Kazakhstan’s property bubble burst. The state
holds an 81.5 percent stake in the lender.  Varenko declined to comment whether BTA transferred its
loans to the bank’s creditors.  “It takes time to sell collateral after foreclosure,”
Varenko said. After a court ruling, BTA seized a building in
Kiev and put it on the balance sheet of a company under its
control, allowing the bank to wait for a more favorable moment
to sell the asset, he said. Kazakh banking regulations place
time restrictions for holding such assets on balance sheets.  Loan Provisions  BTA has allocated provisions equal to 67 percent of its
$4.15 billion in Kazakh loans as of Sept. 1 and 81 percent of
the $7 billion invested in former Soviet republics, mostly
 Russia , Varenko said.  The rest of the bank’s distressed assets amount to $2.6
billion of credits extended to shell companies, requiring loan-
loss provisions equal to 98 percent of the total, Varenko said.
Under Ablyazov, BTA lent funds to shell companies which used
them to inject money into the lender’s capital and engaged in
other fraudulent schemes, he said.  BTA seeks to write down the hopeless loans and recover the
losses from Ablyazov, Varenko said. Asset recovery won’t account
for a large part of BTA’s future profit compared with new loans
and the active part of its loan holdings, Varenko said.  The bank has a “working loan portfolio” of $1.16 billion,
requiring provisions equal to an average level for the Kazakh
banking sector, he said.  BTA “is close” to returning ownership over three
airplanes parked at a Almaty airport, which were among assets
seized by Kazakh prosecutors in 2009, according to Varenko.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  