-- 
Bulgaria Disturbances Lead to 168 Arrests

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 
2011-09-28T08:33:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/bulgaria-disturbances-lead-to-168-arrests.html
Bulgarian police detained 168
protesters after more than 2,200 people took to the streets for
a second night in 14 cities including Sofia, Plovdiv, Varna and
Burgas in the country’s worst outbreak of unrest in more than a
decade.  The protesters included mostly soccer fans and teenagers
organized through social media networks, who carried fire
crackers, knives, baseball bats, pipes and hammers, the Interior
Ministry in Sofia said on its website today. They tried to march
into the Roma quarters in several cities and were met by riot
police. There were no severe casualties or damages, it said.  The violence was triggered after Roma clan leader Kiril
Rashkov in the Katunitsa village, near the second city of
Plovdiv, was blamed for the death of 19-year-old Angel Petrov
during the weekend, Vesselin Vuchkov, deputy interior minister,
said yesterday. Villagers set on fire several of Rashkov’s cars
and houses in retaliation.  The protests in the  European Union’s  poorest country in
terms of economic output per capita, coincide with the start of
an election campaign before presidential and city council
elections on Oct. 23. Roma account for 4.9 percent of the
country’s population of 7.4 million people, according to the
statistics office. They are among the poorest and least
educated, according to this year’s census.  Bulgaria’s chief prosecutor Boris Velchev issued a
statement yesterday evening saying that “everyone who incites
racial or ethnic hatred through actions or words will be
arrested,” according to Bulgarian laws.  Corruption Concerns  Bulgaria joined the EU in 2007 and has since been
criticized for failing to fight crime and corruption. The state
is not doing enough to provide equal access to education and
employment for the Roma and ethnic Turks, which forces them to
resort to crime as source of income, according to Antonina
Zheliazkova, director of the  International Minority Studies
Center  in Sofia.  Petrov was run over by a minibus driven by a relative of
Rashkov while he was walking his dog, Atanas Petrov, his father,
said in an interview with television station BTV. The driver,
Simeon Yosifov, was arrested yesterday, Kalin Georgiev, chief
secretary of the police said in an interview with Nova
television station in Sofia today.  The police also arrested Rashkov, 69, who is known
throughout the Balkan country as Tzar Kiro, and has been under
investigation for large-scale  tax evasion  for several years and
for illegal production of alcoholic beverages, Georgiev said. He
was arrested on a claim filed on Sept. 23 by another villager
that Rashkov threatened him with murder. The National Revenue
Service froze all of Rashkov’s assets and started 18
investigations of his business, Georgiev said.  Allegations  Rashkov’s fellow villagers accuse him of racketeering and
harassment and blame the authorities for failing to take
measures against him because of high-level political protection,
Petrov said in the BTV interview.  “It’s not surprising that the people of Katunitsa took
justice in their own hands after decades of institutional
inaction,” Zheliazkova said in a phone interview yesterday.
“This is not an incident, but a trend. The solution is to
deliver justice, to take away all the privileges from the local
feudal lords and put the criminals in jail. Somehow this isn’t
happening.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  