-- 
Calpers Chief Says 7.75% Return Tough to Meet

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   S c a r l e t   F u
-- 
2011-09-28T20:50:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/calpers-chief-says-7-75-investment-return-may-be-tough-to-meet.html
The  California Public Employees’
Retirement System  will be hard-pressed to return 7.75 percent
this year as  Europe ’s debt crisis and the weak U.S. recovery
continue to weigh on global stocks, its investment chief said.  “That’s going to be tough this year and maybe for the next
few years,” Calpers Chief Investment Officer  Joe Dear  said in a
Bloomberg Television interview today. “This low-return
environment is structurally driven, and there’s not a lot of
policy to move it.”  Calpers, the largest U.S. public pension fund, assumes it
will earn an average of 7.75 percent annually to meet its
obligations. It spreads out losses and gains over 15 years to
blunt the impact that annual swings may have on the amount of
money the fund charges taxpayers to finance retirement benefits
for government workers.  The fund earned 20.7 percent in the 12 months ended June
30, its best result in 14 years, led by gains in stocks and
private equity. Since then, Calpers’s value has dropped by $20
billion to $218.6 billion as of Sept. 26, as global stocks
declined 17 percent.  Even with gains in fiscal 2011, the pension fund has earned
3.41 percent annually on average in the past five years, 5.36
percent in the last 10 and 6.97 percent in the last 15. It has
only beat its assumed rate of return with a 20-year average of
8.38 percent annually.  Nationwide, the median state pension fund will achieve an
annual return of 6.5 percent in the next 15 years, according to
a February study by  Wilshire Associates , the  Santa Monica ,
 California ,  investment adviser .  ‘Not So Encouraged’  “The question is over the long term,” Dear said. “If you
look back 20 years, has Calpers been able to make 7.75 percent?
The answer is yes, well above, at 8.4 percent. So if you are
long-term optimistic and you make the right moves, you can make
that target, but I’m not so encouraged in the immediate term.”  The fund’s governing board in March decided against a
recommendation by its actuaries to reduce its assumed rate of
return on the expectation that markets would trail the
historical average. The fund lost almost a quarter of its value
in 2009 as the global recession dragged down stock prices and
real-estate values.  “Once you look at a significant length of time, the cycles
smooth out and a portfolio with a patient, disciplined approach
will produce a return that matches our expectation of 7.75
percent,” Dear said in a telephone interview.  70 Percent Funded  Calpers in January said it had only about 70 percent of the
money it needs to cover benefits promised to government workers
when they retire. The pension was fully funded when the
recession began in December 2007.  Dear said the fund will look beyond stocks to its other
asset classes, such as private equity,  hedge funds  and
infrastructure, to help boost returns.  Calpers has about 14 percent, or $33.6 billion as of June
30, invested in  private equity , which returned 25.3 percent
through the end of that month.  “We are in a low-return environment with a lot of downside
risk right now,” Dear said. “You need to be realistic about
the prospects and you need to ask what are the alternatives that
might produce a better return than a classic stock-bond
portfolio.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
Scarlet Fu in New York at 
 scarfu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  