-- 
Canadian Currency Trails Its Major Peers on U.S. Economic-Outlook Concern

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-09-28T21:22:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/canadian-currency-trails-its-major-peers-on-u-s-economic-outlook-concern.html
Canada ’s dollar weakened versus its
U.S. counterpart for the first time in four days, headed for
monthly and quarterly losses, on concern the European debt
crisis will hamper global economic growth.  Canada’s currency is down 2.5 percent during the past five
days versus the greenback, while the Australian dollar fell 2.6
percent and  New Zealand ’s dollar dropped 3.1 percent, the three
worst performers among the world’s 16 most-traded currencies.
All three nations rely on resources for export revenue.  “It’s about the slow global growth environment,” said
Stewart  Hall, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada’s
RBC Capital Markets unit in Toronto, by e-mail today, referring
to why commodity-linked currencies are losing value.  The Canadian currency depreciated 1.4 percent to C$1.0335
per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, the weakest closing price
since October 2010. It ended at C$1.0193 yesterday. It’s down
5.4 percent this month versus the greenback and 6.8 percent
since June 30 in what would be its first quarterly loss since
June 2010. One Canadian dollar buys 96.76 U.S. cents.  The Canadian currency dropped against 12 of its 16 most-
traded peers today as commodities tumbled. Crude oil, the
nation’s biggest export, snapped a two-day winning streak. Bank
of Montreal cut its year-end forecast for Canada’s dollar,
saying  Europe ’s 18-month sovereign-debt crisis will “weigh
heavily” on the global economy.  “There are still ongoing issues about the weakness of the
 U.S. economy  and the flow-through that that has into Canada,”
said  Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy at Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce in  London . A split in prospects
between “stressed” developed nations and Asian markets, which
may be able to “decouple” from a western slowdown, “might see
some relative Canadian-dollar underperformance,” he said.  Raw Materials  Drop  Crude oil for November delivery tumbled 4.5 percent to
$80.68 a barrel in  New York , and the Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index
of raw materials slid 2.5 percent. Raw materials account for
about half of Canada’s export revenue. The country ships about
three-quarters of its exports, including most of its crude oil,
to the U.S.  Stocks fell amid concern policy makers can’t agree on
measures to contain the European debt crisis. The MSCI World
Index of equities in developed nations declined 1.6 percent.  The loonie, as Canada’s currency is nicknamed, pared losses
as orders for U.S. capital goods rose in August. Bookings for
goods like computers and communications gear, excluding military
hardware and aircraft, climbed 1.1 percent, the most since May,
a Commerce Department report showed today in  Washington .  Demand for total U.S. durable goods declined 0.1 percent,
trailing the 0.2 percent drop forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists.  Forecast Lowered  Bank of Montreal, Canada’s fourth-largest lender, lowered
its year-end projection for the Canadian currency toward C$1.075
per U.S. dollar, compared with an earlier projection of 99
cents. Benjamin Reitzes, a senior economist and foreign-exchange
strategist, wrote in a client note the firm sees no interest-
rate increases from the  Bank of Canada  until 2013.  Shorter-term  government bonds  rose, snapping a three-day
losing streak. Yields on Canada’s benchmark two-year notes fell
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 0.93 percent.
Yields reached a record low 0.76 percent on Sept. 12. The price
of the 2 percent securities due in November 2013 rose 5 cents to
C$101.20.  The Bank of Canada will give further information tomorrow
on its website about its Oct. 5 auction of 10-year securities.
The previous auction of 10-year bonds, on July 27, drew an
average yield of 2.994 percent. The bid-to-cover ratio, which
gauges demand by compared the amount bid with the amount sold,
was 2.46, versus a five-auction average of 2.37 times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  