-- 
Cantor Fitzgerald Names Lumby Head of Equity Capital Markets

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-09-28T12:20:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/cantor-fitzgerald-names-lumby-head-of-equity-capital-markets.html
Cantor Fitzgerald  LP named Jeffrey Lumby head of equity capital markets at its sales and trading
unit as the New York-based firm seeks to expand its services to
help companies raise capital.  Lumby, 42, took the new position at Cantor Fitzgerald & Co.
this month after serving as a senior managing director
overseeing the firm’s at-the-market stock-offering service, he
said yesterday in an interview at his office.  Cantor Fitzgerald is expanding its equity-offering services
to attract companies that want to finance growth with stock
sales, said Lumby, who joined the firm in 2001. The move is part
of a global push to hire investment bankers and broaden its
business.  “My focus is going to be  equity capital markets  and
expanding that,” Lumby said. “There’s still going to be a
focus on the ATM business.”  At-the-market share sales are executed by brokers on behalf
of companies that gain permission from the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission to sell a set amount of equity gradually on
the open market. Lumby has helped complete more than 100 at-the-
market offerings since 2002, raising more than $14 billion, he
said. He will report to Shawn Matthews, chief executive officer
of Cantor Fitzgerald & Co.  Joshua Feldman has been promoted to managing director and
will help oversee at-the-market and other capital-markets
transactions, Matthews said during the interview.  Cantor Fitzgerald, with about 50 bankers, plans to double
that number over the next two years, Matthews said. Altogether,
the firm aims to hire at least 200 people in the next year in
areas including sales and trading, banking and asset management.
The company is also in negotiations to acquire sales and trading
operations in  Europe ,  Asia  and  Latin America .  “What we’re doing is building a middle-market practice to
raise capital for mid-tier firms that need the extra sources of
liquidity as they grow,” Matthews said. “We’re in outright
growth mode at this time, as everyone else is retrenching.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  