-- 
Carbon Spread Trading Surges 70%, Outpaces ICE Total CO2 Growth

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-09-28T12:32:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/carbon-spread-trading-surges-70-outpaces-ice-total-co2-growth.html
The volume of carbon spread trading
surged 70 percent in the past four months amid increased
volatility, outpacing a 65 percent rise in the entire
greenhouse-gas market, according to data from ICE Futures
 Europe .  There were 391.5 million metric tons of spread trades in
the period through Sept. 20 from June 1, e-mailed data from ICE
in London show. There were 229.3 million tons handled in the
same period last year, according to ICE, the biggest exchange
for carbon trading. Total volumes jumped 65 percent in the
period to 1.98 billion tons, the data show.  Traders can cut risks by buying and selling spread
contracts when outright futures are volatile, said Dennis Mignon, a trader with First Climate in Bad Vilbel,  Germany .
“When people are unsure of where the market is going, they
sometimes stick to spread trades.”  Spread trading in the year to date, including European
Union carbon allowances and United Nations emission credits,
jumped 42 percent, compared with 27 percent for the whole
market, the ICE data show. Stable prices in the first five
months of the year prompted traders to buy and sell spreads
partly in a bid to get returns higher than  interest rates ,
Mignon said. Since May 31, December futures have dropped 38
percent, on concern a second recession in the bloc would
exacerbate an oversupply in the market through 2012 and beyond.  The increased volatility the past four months boosted
trading of both spread and outright contracts, Mignon said. So-
called carry trades, where above-interest-rate returns are
available are popular in the carbon market, he said.  The 2011-2013 EU carbon spread contract today indicates a
profit of around 12 percent by buying December futures and
selling them in December 2013, according to prices on ICE.
That’s compared with a 1.5 percent return for two-year euro
interest-rate swaps.  Some brokers clear trades on ICE. The  London  Energy Brokers
Association said it does not detail spread trading compared with
futures volumes.  Editors: Alessandro Vitelli, Rob Verdonck.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  