-- 
Cargill Recall a ‘Shake-Up’ on Poultry Safety, Hagen Says

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 
2011-09-28T16:11:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/cargill-recall-a-shake-up-on-poultry-safety-hagen-says.html
The recall of about 36 million
pounds of Cargill Inc. turkey meat “shook people up” to the
need for tougher poultry rules, said Elisabeth Hagen, the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture ’s undersecretary for  food safety .  “You’re going to see some steps from the agency on ground
poultry,” Hagen said, without elaboration, in a briefing on
food safety today in  Washington . The USDA’s Food Safety and
Inspection Service, which Hagen leads, will take “a proactive
approach to prevent people from getting sick,” she said.  Cargill began the second-biggest U.S. meat recall in early
August during a salmonella outbreak that killed one person and
sickened more than 70 others. That and other safety scares,
including  listeria infections  linked to cantaloupes that have
killed 13, have prompted calls for stricter government oversight
of the food supply. A unit of  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  is recalling
131,300 pounds of ground beef that may be contaminated with E.
coli bacteria, the USDA said early today in an e-mail.  Funding for food safety is being pressured by congressional
spending cuts. The Food Safety and Inspection Service budget
would be reduced 3.4 percent to $972.7 million in the year
beginning Oct. 1 under the appropriations bill the  House of
Representatives  passed in June, while the Senate’s plan would
leave funding unchanged.  Food-Poisoning Costs  Food poisoning strikes an estimated 48 million people in
the U.S. each year, leading to 128,000 hospitalizations and
3,000 deaths, according to the Atlanta-based Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention. Foodborne illnesses cost the nation’s
economy about $152 billion annually in health-care expenses and
lost productivity, according to a 2010  report  by Georgetown
University’s  Produce Safety Project  in Washington.  The USDA regulates, meat, poultry and egg products while
the  Food and Drug Administration  oversees the other 80 percent
of the food supply.  Cargill is based in Minneapolis, while Tyson Foods, the
largest U.S.-based meat producer, has its headquarters in
Springdale,  Arkansas .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  