-- 
CBOE Sets Fees for Electronic S&P 500 Options on C2 Exchange

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-09-28T22:37:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/cboe-sets-fees-for-electronic-s-p-500-options-on-c2-exchange-1-.html
An exchange run by  CBOE Holdings
Inc. (CBOE)  said it will charge retail traders and fund managers 44
cents a contract to buy or sell the SPXpm, an electronic option
based on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Market makers will pay 17 cents per contract while brokers
and active traders deemed professionals will pay 40 cents, C2
Options Exchange said in a  filing  today to the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission. These groups will also pay a 10-cent
surcharge per contract to offset C2’s licensing fees for the
index. The SPXpm options will begin trading on Oct. 4.  The SPXpm aims to compete with equity derivatives on the
 SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust (SPY) , the most active U.S. contract, and
attract different users to equity derivatives based on the  S&P
500 Index (SPX) , which currently change hands only on the  Chicago
Board Options Exchange . The SPXpm contract will settle based on
the prices of the underlying stocks at 4 p.m. New York time,
unlike the standard options on the  S&P 500 , or SPX, which settle
based on the price of the component stocks at 9:30 a.m.  “Ultimately it will succeed, but it will take quite a
while to build awareness among retail customers,”  Randy
Frederick , director of trading and derivatives at San Francisco-
based broker Charles Schwab Corp. said in a phone interview.
Retail customers have tended to use options on the S&P 500
exchange-traded fund instead of those on the index itself
because they’re smaller contracts, he said. “The fact that
they’re going to Friday p.m. settlement will make more sense to
retail clients,” he said.  S&P 500 Options  Options on the S&P 500 ETF, which can trade on all nine
U.S. options exchanges, were the most popular contract in the
first half of this year, accounting for 13 percent of the
industry’s volume, according to data compiled by Chicago-based
 OCC , which clears and settles all options trades. CBOE’s S&P 500
index-based options were the next most active, with 3.8 percent.  Unlike most CBOE products, which can be bought and sold
either in the exchange’s hybrid system -- both electronically
and in open outcry -- or only through automated processes, the
SPX is handled mainly by humans in the exchange’s trading pit in
 Chicago . The pit holds more than 200 traders and market makers.  Market Share  CBOE and C2 had 26.2 and 1.3 percent of total U.S. options
volume last month, respectively, and CBOE accounted for more
than 95 percent of the industry’s index volume, according to OCC
data. CBOE’s exclusive license with McGraw-Hill Cos. to trade
options on the S&P 500 ends in 2018.  C2 told the SEC that since the SPXpm contract represents 10
times the size of options on the SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust, whose
ticker is SPY, the per-contract transaction fees for the C2
product “provide significant cost savings to investors when
compared to SPY options.” The exchange said  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s
NYSE Arca options market charges customers  45 cents  per contract
for options on the S&P 500 ETF.  Retail investors usually aren’t swayed by the fees
exchanges charge for executions, Frederick said. Most pay
brokers a commission to buy and sell options and aren’t
responsible for the per-contract fee assessed by exchanges.
Their brokers pay those trading charges as they decide where to
send orders to get the best possible transaction -- based on
price, speed and other attributes -- for their clients.  Bigger Asset Managers  To appeal to bigger asset managers including mutual and
pension funds, C2 won’t charge for more than 10,000 SPXpm
contracts per order. This will help draw orders from users of
the over-the-counter markets and those submitting large orders
in exchange-listed S&P 500 derivatives, C2 said.  The CBOE’s S&P 500 products will appeal to different users,
with electronic traders adopting SPXpm while those who need to
“negotiate large, complex orders” continuing to buy and sell
in the CBOE trading pit,  William Brodsky , chairman and chief
executive officer of CBOE Holdings, said in a Sept. 2 statement.
The SEC cleared the product over objections from New York-based
 International Securities Exchange , which said it will spur late-
day volatility and investor confusion.  The SPXpm product will operate for a 14-month pilot. The
exchange will submit confidential annual and interim reports to
the SEC analyzing trading patterns in SPXpm and shares in the
S&P 500 stocks. This will help regulators assess the effect of
afternoon settlement on S&P 500 index options, the SEC said.  “C2 has a tremendous opportunity to capture over-the-
counter business in S&P 500 options,” Thomas Foertsch,
president of Exchange Capital Resources, a Chicago-based company
that advises trading firms on operational and market structure
issues, said earlier this month. Foertsch worked at the CBOE
from 1983 until 2009 and ran day-to-day operations for SPX on
the trading floor starting in 1989.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  