-- 
CFTC Will Face Scrutiny Over Speculation Curbs at Senate Panel on Oct. 6

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-09-28T17:43:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/cftc-to-face-lawmaker-scrutiny-on-oct-6-over-speculation-curbs.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission , which has yet to complete Dodd-Frank Act limits on
excessive speculation, will face scrutiny about the trading
curbs at an Oct. 6 hearing led by Senator  Carl Levin .  CFTC chairman Gary Gensler will testify at the hearing of
the  Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations , according to a
statement released by Levin’s office today.  The CFTC, after delaying consideration in September,
delayed a final vote on the regulations until an Oct. 18
Washington meeting, Steve Adamske, the agency’s spokesman, said
yesterday. The rule has among the most contentious stemming from
Dodd-Frank, spurring more than 13,000 comments from supporters
such as  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and opponents including Barclays
Capital.  The agency has come under pressure from lawmakers,
including Levin, a Michigan Democrat, and Senators Maria Cantwell, a Washington Democrat,  Bernie Sanders , a Vermont
independent, and Bill Nelson, a Florida Democrat, to complete
the speculation rule, originally proposed in January.  “Until this proposed rule is adopted and effective
position limits are put in place, the American economy will
continue to be vulnerable to excessive speculation and the
violent price swings it can cause, and American business and
consumers will continue to be at risk,” Levin said in a March
28 letter to the CFTC.  The CFTC and  Securities and Exchange Commission  are leading
U.S. efforts to write new derivatives rules for the $601
trillion global swaps market after largely unregulated trades
helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis. The rules will govern trades
conducted by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and
Cargill Inc., among other companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  