-- 
Chaoda Modern Facing Second Hearing in Hong Kong Market Misconduct Probe

-- B y   D e b r a   M a o   a n d   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 
2011-09-28T04:02:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/chaoda-modern-agriculture-faces-second-hong-kong-market-misconduct-hearing.html
Chaoda Modern Agriculture Holdings
Ltd. (682) , the Chinese food producer whose shares were suspended on
Sept. 26 after slumping 27 percent, faces a second hearing at
 Hong Kong ’s  Market Misconduct Tribunal  today.  The Hong Kong government and three other parties will be
represented at the 5 p.m. hearing, tribunal secretary William
Chow said. Chairman Michael Lunn will preside. Eric Yip of
Christensen, which handles  investor relations  for Chaoda, didn’t
respond to a request for comment today.  The company’s market value has been cut by HK$11.9 billion
($1.5 billion) since a May 26 magazine report alleging it
exaggerated its farmland. Chaoda denied the report and said it
would sue the publisher Next Magazine. Chaoda’s lawyers were
preparing a price-sensitive announcement to Hong Kong’s stock
exchange, Yip had said on Monday.  Increased scrutiny of Chinese companies including Toronto-
listed  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , accused of fraud by short-seller Muddy
Waters LLC, has driven down the Bloomberg Chinese Reverse
Mergers Index down 58 percent this year.  Chaoda’s fall on Sept. 26 came after the tribunal
proceedings were first reported. The panel hears civil cases
involving six offenses: including price rigging, false trading,
 insider trading , disclosure of information about prohibited
transactions, disclosure of false information inducing
transactions, and stock market manipulation, according to its
website.  150 Crops  A spokeswoman for the Financial Secretary’s office, Shirley
Wong, declined to give details on the allegations yesterday.
Securities and Futures Commission spokesman Jonathan Li also
declined yesterday to comment on the regulator’s involvement in
the case.  Chaoda grows 150 types of crops at 31 production bases
across 13 Chinese provinces, according to its website. The
company employs 23,000 people and owns over 44,282 hectares of
farmland.  Macquarie Group Ltd. analysts said in a June 9 report that
the company hadn’t exaggerated the size of its assets after
visiting some of the company’s production bases. The company
bought back 13 million shares in late May. Chairman Kwok Ho also
bought 2 million shares.  Founded in 1994 by Kwok, Chaoda first listed in Hong Kong
in 2000. Kwok, 55, is a member of the  Chinese People’s Political
Consultative Conference , China’s top political advisory body,
and has a 19.6 percent stake in the company, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg..  Chaoda canceled plans to sell bonds in May, citing market
conditions. It raised HK$1.17 billion in a share sale in August,
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  