-- 
Chilean Peso Declines After Three-Day Rally as Copper Slumps

-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 
2011-09-28T19:42:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/chilean-peso-declines-as-latin-american-currencies-copper-fall.html
Chile’s peso retreated for the
first time in four days as lower copper prices dimmed trade
prospects for the biggest producer of the metal.  The peso fell 1.4 percent to 512.86 per  U.S. dollar ,
extending losses after the central bank said it wouldn’t suspend
a $50 million per day dollar-buying program “for now”. The
Bloomberg JPMorgan Latin American Currency Index slid 0.9
percent.  Commodities slumped on renewed concern that the European
debt crisis may slow global growth. Copper for December delivery
dropped 7.7 percent to a one-year low in  New York .  “Latin American currencies aren’t riding the back of the
improved performance in developed markets today and nor are
commodities,” said Cristian Donoso, a trader at Banchile
Inversiones in Santiago. “We’re following commodities, and
there’s some short covering because lots of players were
oversold in dollars and are now buying.”  The central bank is constantly reviewing its $12 billion
U.S. dollar-buying program that started in January and is
scheduled to end in December, central bank board member Rodrigo Vergara said in an interview. The program is designed to stem
the peso’s gains and increase international reserves.  “For now the program remains,” Vergara said today from
the bank’s offices in downtown Santiago. “We could perfectly
well discontinue the program at any moment if conditions
warranted. We don’t have any exchange rate targets.”  Bond Sale  Chile ’s government sold $210 million of five- and seven-
year nominal and inflation-linked bonds, said the central bank,
which managed the sale.  Banks bought 26 percent of the $73 million of seven-year
nominal bonds, which paid a 5.1 percent yield, the bank said on
its website today. Demand was 1.6 times the amount sold. Banks
bought 65 percent of the $73 million of five-year inflation-
linked bonds, which paid 2.09 percent. Demand was 1.28 times the
amount sold. Banks bought 80 percent of the seven-year
inflation-linked bonds at a yield of 2.27 percent. Demand was
1.5 times the $64 million sold.  Chile’s peso may end the year at 500 per dollar and fall to
530 in the first quarter of 2012,  Mike Moran , an economist at
 Standard Chartered  in New York, wrote today in a note to
clients. He changed his forecast from 440 in the fourth quarter
and 450 per dollar in the first quarter of 2012.  “The bullish factors that supported a strong Chilean peso
for much of 2011 are fading or beginning to reverse, leaving the
Chilean peso particularly exposed to worsening risk appetite,”
Moran wrote.  Foreign investors in the Chilean peso forwards market
increased their wagers on the U.S. dollar beating the peso to $5
billion on Sept. 26, the central bank said today. That’s their
biggest bet against Chile’s currency since July 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  