-- 
China Warns Asia Not to Hide Behind U.S. Military

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-28T05:45:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/china-warns-asia-not-to-hide-behind-u-s-military.html
Asian countries should be on guard
against the “danger” of feeling they can “do whatever they
want” because of the U.S. military presence in the region, the
Chinese Communist Party’s People’s Daily said in a commentary.  The opinion piece said it was understandable that some
Asian countries may be uncomfortable with  China ’s rise and
emphasized that the government in Beijing was working for
“peaceful solutions” to conflicts such as territorial disputes
in the  South China Sea . The commentary comes as countries such
as the  Philippines  and Vietnam are increasingly voicing concerns
over China’s claims to the waters.  “ Asia  remains a fertile ground for a  Cold War  mentality,”
the commentary said. “Asia is advancing, will never return to
the Cold War, and China must have an important role in the
future of Asian security.”  Competing claims to the South China Sea threaten to sour
ties between China and the Association of Southeast Asian
Nations members Vietnam, the Philippines and Malaysia as the
countries compete over oil, gas and fisheries resources. China,
citing historical evidence such as pottery shards, claims a
tongue-shaped swath of the sea demarked by nine dashes that
extends hundreds of miles south from Hainan Island to the
equatorial waters off the coast of Borneo.  China’s Ire  The U.S. set off China’s ire in 2010 when Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton , speaking at a regional summit in Hanoi,
called resolving the competing claims to the sea “a leading
diplomatic priority.” That drew a rebuke from Chinese Foreign
Minister  Yang Jiechi , who said internationalizing the incident
with U.S. involvement “can only make matters worse and more
difficult to solve.”  Huang Jing, a professor at the Lee Kuan Yew School of
Public Policy at the  National University  of Singapore, said the
commentary may offer a hint that China is actually willing to
compromise with southeast Asian nations on the South China Sea
in a bid to stave off deeper U.S. involvement.  One compromise could be giving up a claim to the entire sea
demarcated by the nine-dash line, Huang said. Instead, China
would focus its claims on the waters surrounding the reefs and
shoals, which may placate  Malaysia  and the Philippines, he said.  “China knows it doesn’t have any ground to claim the nine-
dash line,” Huang said. “If China doesn’t clarify its position
it gives America more of an excuse or more justification to
intervene.”  Today’s commentary was attributed to Zhong Sheng, a play on
words that sounds like “voice of China.” Commentaries on
topics that take a nationalist line, including one on Sept. 23
criticizing the U.S. decision to sell arms to Taiwan, often
carry the same name. Zhong Sheng likely represents a group of
“hardliners,” Huang said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  