-- 
Chinese Premier Wen Calls for Energy Conservation, Emissions Cuts

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-28T03:26:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/chinese-premier-wen-calls-for-greater-energy-conservation-emissions-cuts.html
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  called
on local governments to step up efforts to conserve energy and
reduce emissions, saying the current situation is “rather
severe,” the official Xinhua News Agency reported.  Local authorities should fully implement policies in the
government’s work plan for the five years ending 2015, according
to the state media, citing a teleconference by Wen yesterday.
The nation should curb the growth of energy-intensive and
polluting industries, increase the use of cleaner power sources
and improve natural-resource pricing, he said.  China , the world’s biggest energy consumer, is shutting
outdated industrial plants and boosting investment in renewable
energy as part of a campaign to create more sustainable economic
growth and reduce pollution. The government missed its energy-
reduction target in the last five-year plan even after closing
at least 7,000 factories.  “We have to fully understand the urgency and extreme
importance of energy conservation and emissions reduction,” Wen
was cited as saying. “We have to make clear the
responsibilities of every level of government and relevant
businesses.”  China should promote the cleaner use of coal and renewable
energy sources including wind, solar and hydropower, he said.
The nation should “develop efficiently” nuclear power while
ensuring safety. Pricing mechanisms for resources should be
improved and reforms to resource and environment taxes deepened.  China emits more  greenhouse gases  than any other country.
It vowed to reduce  carbon emissions  per unit of gross domestic
product by as much as 45 percent in 2020 from 2005 levels. The
government missed its target to cut energy use per unit of gross
domestic product by 20 percent from 2006 to 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chua Baizhen in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net ;
Jing Yang in Shanghai at 
 jyang251@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  