-- 
China’s Stocks Drop to 14-Month Low, as Property, Railway Companies Sink

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-28T07:56:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/china-stocks-rise-for-second-day-as-jiangxi-copper-zhuzhou-smelter-climb.html
China ’s stocks fell, sending the
benchmark index to its lowest level since July 2010, on concern
government measures to tame inflation and a faltering global
economy will hurt earnings growth.  China Vanke Co. and Poly Real Estate Group Co. led losses
by developers amid speculation funding costs will rise at the
same time as sales slow. Railcar makers CSR Corp. and China CNR
Corp. sank after a train collision in Shanghai’s metro injured
271 people. Stocks also fell on concern initial public offerings
will sap demand for existing equities.  The Shanghai Composite Index dropped 22.99 points, or 1
percent, to 2,392.06 at the 3 p.m. close, erasing an earlier 0.6
percent gain. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  declined 1 percent to 2,610.59.
The country’s markets will be shut all next week for holidays.  “The main focus for investors is how much  China’s economy 
will slow and how soon tight policies will be relaxed,” said
Wei Wei, an analyst at West China Securities Co. in Shanghai.  The Shanghai Composite has tumbled 15 percent this year,
extending last year’s 14 percent drop, as the government raised
 interest rates  and reserve-requirement ratios for banks to cool
inflation that’s at the highest level in almost three years. The
gauge has sunk 13 percent this quarter, set for the biggest loss
since the three months to June last year.  The measure is valued at 11 times estimated profit, the
lowest level on record, according to weekly data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Global Reports  Commerce Department data today may show U.S. durable goods
orders fell, after a report confirmed  France ’s economy stalled
last quarter and  South Korea ’s central bank said sentiment among
manufacturers held at a 21-month low.  An index tracking property stocks on the Shanghai Composite
fell 1.2 percent to its lowest level since February 2009. Vanke,
the nation’s biggest listed property developer, dropped 1.3
percent to 7.08 yuan. Poly Real Estate, the second largest, slid
1.8 percent to 9 yuan. Gemdale Corp. retreated 2.6 percent to
4.92 yuan.  China’s clampdown on property loans and concern that local
authorities will struggle to pay their debts are driving up
corporate borrowing costs by the most in four years relative to
 government bonds .  The difference between yields on 10-year notes issued by
top-rated companies and  government securities  widened 46 basis
points this quarter to 221 basis points. A gap of 224 on Sept.
26 was the biggest since at least March 2006, according to data
from Chinabond, the nation’s biggest debt clearing house.  Rail Crash  CSR, which has made subway trains for lines in Shanghai,
Nanjing and Guangzhou, fell 1.7 percent to 4.64 yuan. China CNR
Corp., the nation’s second-biggest train maker, slid 1.7 percent
to 4.70 yuan.  China Railway Group Ltd. (601390) , the nation’s biggest
construction company by total assets, lost 1 percent to 2.99
yuan.  Shanghai’s subway crash happened while controllers were
running operations using a manual system following an equipment
failure, Shanghai Shentong Metro Co. said in a  statement . The
accident on  line 10 , which opened last year, occurred between
Yuyuan station and Lao Ximen yesterday.  China slashed nationwide spending on railway construction
by 50 percent last month as it slowed work after a high-speed
train crash killed 40 people in July.  Share Sales  China’s benchmark money-market rate rose to a three-week
high as Sinohydro Group Ltd.’s initial share sale tied up funds.  Demand for cash also rose before the National Day holiday,
which will shut financial markets for the whole of next week,
and as banks prepare to meet quarter-end  capital requirements .
The People’s Bank of China injected funds into the financial
system for a 10th week in the period through Sept. 22.  Sinohydro plans to raise as much as 14.4 billion yuan ($2.3
billion) in a  Shanghai  initial public offering, China Securities
Journal reported on Sept. 26. The securities regulator approved
the listing of Zhejiang Aokang Shoes Co. on Sept. 23.  China Communications Construction Co., the nation’s biggest
port builder, received approval from China Securities Regulatory
Commission for its initial public offering in Shanghai, 21st
Century Business Herald reported. The Beijing-based company may
raise as much as 20 billion yuan from the stock sales, it said
in a Sept. 24 statement.  Citic Securities Co. fell 2.5 percent to 11.52 yuan.
China’s biggest publicly traded brokerage may raise about HK$13
billion ($1.7 billion) selling shares below the midpoint of a
marketed price range in a Hong Kong stock sale, two people with
knowledge of the matter said.  Underwriters for Shanghai-listed Citic Securities advised
the company to sell shares at HK$13.30 apiece, said the people,
who declined to be identified because no final decision on
pricing has been made. The shares have been marketed to
investors at HK$12.84 to HK$15.20.  UBS AG is “cautious” about China’s stocks in the fourth
quarter as economic and earnings growth slow, and the risk of a
double-dip recession in the global economy rises, said Gao Ting,
chief China strategist at UBS. China is also unlikely to relax
monetary policies, the strategist said at a briefing in Shanghai
yesterday.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Richard Frost,  Matthew Oakley   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  