-- 
China ‘Hard Landing’ Worries Unneeded, State Researcher Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-28T06:34:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/china-hard-landing-worries-unneeded-state-researcher-says-1-.html
China  faces no risk of a “hard
landing” even as its growth is set to slow as the global
economic outlook worsens and labor and land costs rise, a
government researcher said.  “Worries that  China’s economy  may see a hard landing are
unnecessary,” Lu Zhongyuan, deputy director of the State
Council Development Research Center, said at a briefing in
Beijing today. “China is currently going through a short-term
moderation and growth is still within a normal range.”  Lu said China’s economy this year may expand more than 9
percent after rising 10.4 percent in 2010, while average growth
over the next five years will likely exceed 8 percent.  Policy makers of the world’s second-largest economy are
trying to cool inflation while sustaining growth as a deepening
debt crisis in  Europe  and faltering growth in the U.S. threaten
to sap export demand. A Chinese manufacturing index due on Oct.
1 will probably stay near the borderline between expansion and
contraction in September, according to the median estimate of 12
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  China needs “relatively fast growth” in order to create 8
million to 9 million new jobs a year in the five-year period
that lasts until 2015, he said. It will be more difficult in the
long run for China’s economy to grow 9 percent to 10 percent
annually, Lu said.  ‘Inevitable’ Slowdown  It’s “inevitable” that the average growth rate will slow
in the next five-year period starting 2016 and may “moderate
further” after that, he said. Still, Lu expects the average
rate of expansion will likely stay above 7 percent.  Inflation, while still high, had peaked in July, Lu said.
The increase in the  consumer price index  eased to 6.2 percent in
August, after reaching a three-year high of 6.5 percent in the
previous month.  “The domestic cost of labor, land and resources are
rising, leading to a gradual slowdown of economic growth,” he
said.  The government can consider keeping the tone of its
economic policy unchanged for the next year while strengthening
its focus and flexibility, Lu said. China has adopted a
“prudent” monetary policy and a “proactive” fiscal policy.  Turning to the  property market , Lu said it’s in a
“deadlock” as demand remains strong even after the government
limited the number of homes one can buy and tried to cap price
gains, Lu said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  