-- 
China’s Delays on Regional Jet Weaken Threat to Boeing, Airbus Duopoly

-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 
2011-09-28T23:13:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/china-s-delays-on-regional-jet-weaken-threat-to-boeing-airbus-duopoly.html
China’s bid to break Airbus SAS and
 Boeing Co. (BA) ’s stranglehold on the global aircraft market is being
hindered by a four-year delay in delivering the nation’s first
passenger jet.  The 90-seat  ARJ21  won’t enter service this year as it is
still going through safety tests needed to win certification
from China’s aviation regulator, Tian Min, chief financial
officer of state-controlled Commercial Aircraft Corp. of China
Ltd., said last week. The  plane  was due to begin commercial
flights service as early as 2007.  The ARJ21’s failure to win regulatory approval almost four
years after the first aircraft was  assembled  may hamper Comac
sales as customers can’t be sure when they will get planes, said
Ken Zhang, a Beijing-based analyst with Founder Securities Co.
The delay may also disrupt development of the larger 168-seat
C919, which will compete with revamped Boeing and Airbus
aircraft in a domestic market that may more than triple by 2030.  “It’s only logical for customers to slow orders when they
don’t know when delays will be resolved,” Zhang said. “The
problems just show that challenging experienced players is
always easier said than done, especially in aerospace.”  Comac has 206 orders for the ARJ21, predominately from
state-controlled companies in China. Of that tally, only 35 have
been won since 2008, when the aircraft made its maiden flight.
The plane, which competes with  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  and  Embraer SA (EMBR3) 
aircraft, has  General Electric Co. (GE)  engines and a maximum range
of 2,225 kilometers (1,382 miles) for the standard model,
according to Shanghai-based Comac’s  website .  Unknown Schedule  Chengdu Airlines Co., which is part-owned by Comac, is due
to be the first operator of the regional jet. The carrier
doesn’t know when it will begin to receive planes, said a
spokeswoman, who declined to give her name. Deliveries are
unlikely to start before the second half of next year, said
David Wei, an analyst with Shanghai Securities Co.  “The delays for the ARJ21 highlight the difficulties in
getting certification,” he said. “The C919 delivery schedule
may also be too tight.”  Comac isn’t alone in suffering delays in developing new
planes. Boeing this week delivered its first 787 to All Nippon
Airways Co. three years late. Airbus postponed the handover of
its A380 superjumbo by almost two years.  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) 
received the first in 2007.  Comac expects the C919 to make its first flight in 2014 and
to enter commercial service two years later. The planemaker has
won as many as 100 orders for the aircraft and it will announce
“substantial” new deals this year, Chen Jin, its general
manager for sales and marketing, said last week.  Regulatory Delays  Approval for the ARJ21 may be taking longer than expected
because it is the first time that Comac has built a jet plane
and the first time that the Civil Aviation Administration of
China, or CAAC, has had to certify one, said Wei and Feng Fuzhang, a Beijing-based China Securities Co. analyst.  A high-speed train accident in July, which killed 40 people,
and a Chinese-made propeller-aircraft crash in May in  Indonesia 
that killed 25 people may also have made the regulator more
cautious, said Founder’s Zhang.  “The recent train crash is a setback for China’s hi-tech
manufacturing,” he said. “The CAAC may be even stricter with
the new plane now.” Two phone calls to the aviation regulator
yesterday went unanswered.  The process of winning approval for ARJ21 from the  Chinese
regulator  and the  Federal Aviation Administration  in the U.S.
are running “smoothly,” said Comac’s Tian. “It’s normal for
there to be some technical issues, but so far there haven’t been
any disruptive problems,” he said. He declined to elaborate.  C919 Certification  The experience Comac and the regulator gain from certifying
the ARJ21 may mean that they can more quickly process the C919,
said  China  Securities’ Feng. Comac may also now be more focused
on the C919 than the ARJ21 as it’s a more important product for
the company, he said  The ARJ21 has so far undertaken tests in cross winds, high
temperatures and high humidity, said Comac’s Tian. He declined
to say how many other stages the plane needs to complete. At
least four planes have been used for tests, according to Comac’s
website. Stall tests began late last year, according to  People’s
Daily .  The delays for the ARJ21 may disrupt Comac’s plans to win
overseas approval for the C919 as the FAA is refusing to work on
assessing the larger plane until the first one wins
certification, aerospace magazine  Aviation Week & Space
Technology  reported earlier this month, without saying where it
got the information from. If the C919 advances much further
without the regulator’s involvement, the FAA may decide it can
never become involved, the report said.  FAA Approval  The FAA is working with the Chinese regulator on the ARJ21,
said Les Dorr, a spokesman for the Washington-based regulator.
He declined to comment on the C919 saying that the agency
doesn’t discuss certification efforts in detail.  Overseas suppliers for Chinese aircraft are also helping in
the regulatory process. For instance, Honeywell International
Inc., which will make parts for the ARJ21 and the C919 through
local ventures, has worked with partners on approval processes,
said Mark Howes, its Asia-Pacific aerospace president.  “There’s always great interest from the perspective of our
partners to learn more about certification with the FAA,” he
said.  Boeing, Airbus  Boeing and Airbus are working on new versions of their
single-aisle aircraft that will compete against the C919.
Toulouse, France-based Airbus will introduce the A320neo in 2015,
while Boeing plans to begin deliveries of the 737 MAX two years
later. Both planes will feature new engines that will help cut
fuel usage.  Boeing expects China to take delivery of 5,000 new planes,
worth $600 billion, through 2030. The nation’s airline fleet
will total 5,930 planes that year, with about 70 percent of the
planes being single-aisle models, according to its  forecast .  “I think the market is big enough for everybody to play,”
said Ihssane Mounir, Boeing’s senior vice president for sales &
marketing in Greater China and  Korea . “People want to move
around, people want to get together, so there will be plenty of
business for everybody.”  Comac’s ability to grab a significant share of the domestic
and overseas market may depend upon whether it can stick to its
delivery plans and how quickly it can get its aircraft into
service.  “The ARJ21 will eventually get the certification,” said
China Securities’ Feng. “But, it’s clearly true that Comac was
far too optimistic in setting schedule.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 