-- 
China Growth Seen Less Than 5% by 2016: Poll

-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 
2011-09-29T08:06:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/china-economy-slowing-to-5-annual-growth-by-2016-in-global-investors-poll.html
Most global investors predict
Chinese growth will slow to less than half the pace sustained
since the government began dismantling Mao Zedong’s communist
economy three decades ago, a Bloomberg poll indicated.  Fifty-nine percent of respondents said  China ’s gross
domestic product, which rose 9.5 percent last quarter, will gain
less than 5 percent annually by 2016. Twelve percent see such a
slowdown within a year, and 47 percent said it will occur in two
to five years, the quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll of investors,
analysts and traders who are Bloomberg subscribers showed.  China, which saw its exports tumble the most since at least
1979 amid the 2008-09 global crisis, may not be able to rely on
trade in any prolonged demand slump in Europe and the U.S., now
battling to avoid returning to a recession. Managing the
economic downshift would fall to the Communist Party’s next
leaders, as President  Hu Jintao  and Premier  Wen Jiabao  begin
their transition from power late next year.  “If we’re not buying things, they’re not making them,”
said Charles Doraine, Chief Executive Officer of Doraine Wealth
Management in  Corpus Christi ,  Texas , and a respondent in the
poll of 1,031 investors, analysts and traders taken Sept. 26.
The poll’s margin of error was plus or minus 3.1 percent.  Jerome Selle, chief investment officer at MW Gestion in
Paris, cited a potential Chinese real-estate bubble and elevated
inflation, along with weakening American and European expansions,
as warning signals for the Chinese.  Market Lure  Even so, for many investors, the short-term view remains
positive. Asked to identify the market offering the best returns
over the next 12 months, 23 percent selected China, second only
to the 30 percent who picked the U.S. The Shanghai Composite
Index of shares is down 16 percent this year, compared with an
8.5 percent drop in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 12.2
percent loss in the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index. The Shanghai Composite
slid 1.1 percent today.  Since  Deng Xiaoping  started the shift to free-market
policies in 1979, China has grown at an average annual rate of
10 percent. The economic transformation has lifted more than 600
million people out of poverty, made China the world’s largest
exporter and cemented the Communist Party’s hold on power.  Now, four years into a financial crisis triggered by the
collapse of the U.S. mortgage-securities market, some investors
are beginning to doubt China’s staying power. Investors labeled
the Chinese economy as “deteriorating” rather than
“improving” by a nearly three-to-one margin, 38 percent to 13
percent. A plurality of 47 percent called it “stable.”  Clash in Views  Investors’ outlook for the world’s second-largest economy
clashes with that of China economists including those at HSBC
Holdings Plc, Nomura Holdings Inc.,  Capital Economics  and the
nation’s State Council, or cabinet equivalent. Lu Zhongyuan,
deputy director of the State Council Development Research Center,
said at a briefing in Beijing yesterday that growth in the next
five years will likely exceed 8 percent.  China’s statisticians publish quarterly GDP data ahead of
their counterparts from countries including the U.S., Germany
and Japan, and some analysts have questioned their accuracy. A
candidate to succeed Wen, Vice Premier  Li Keqiang , viewed the
GDP figures as unreliable, the Telegraph reported, citing a 2007
diplomatic cable that was published by Wikileaks.  “Looking at China is much like trying to fully understand
the balance sheet of a big bank like Citigroup,” said Andrew Paolillo, portfolio manager at Rocky Hill Advisors in Peabody,
Mass. “It’s such a black box that from the outside there is no
possible way you can truly see what is actually there.”  Commodity Gauge  China’s coal mining industry is a barometer of gathering
signs of economic weakness, said Michael Shamosh, chief
investment officer at Corby Capital Markets in  Boston . Yanzhou
Coal Mining Co., China’s fourth-biggest producer of the fuel,
has dropped about 46 percent since a high on May 31 in  Hong Kong 
trading.  “Something is amiss,” Shamosh said. “Nothing is more
important to China than coal.” He said a decline in the price
of copper, down almost 25 percent since Aug. 1, is another
indicator of a slowdown, because China’s urbanization and
housing boom made it the world’s largest consumer of the metal.  Doraine echoed the observation, saying “The price of raw
materials is dropping. It means China’s not buying them up.”  Chinese officials are trying to shift the economy to a more
consumer-driven model after a global credit freeze contributed
to a decline of about $230 billion in the country’s exports in
2009, the most since National Bureau of Statistics data began in
1979.  ‘Tune Up’  “China’s economic growth engine needs a tune up,” World
Bank President  Robert Zoellick  said in a Beijing press briefing
Sept. 5. “It’s hard for me to see that a continued reliance on
export-led and investment-led growth will work for China over
the next 10 years.”  American investors were more pessimistic about China’s
prospects than their counterparts in  Europe  and  Asia . The U.S.
was the only region where more investors described the Chinese
economy as deteriorating than stable, and 21 percent of American
respondents said China will offer the worst investment returns
over the next 12 months, second only to the European Union.  Those surveyed retain confidence in the ability of China’s
leadership to navigate the mounting economic challenges. By a
margin of 48 percent to 40 percent, investors said they were
optimistic about President Hu’s investment policies.  A successor to Hu is scheduled to be picked at a conclave
of Communist Party leaders late in 2012, with Hu and Wen
stepping down from their government posts in March 2013.  Better Than  Japan   Bloomberg customers gave Hu better marks than Japanese
Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda : only 24% said they were
optimistic about his policies, against 45 percent who described
themselves as pessimistic about Japan’s sixth head of government
in five years.  In the U.S., almost three times as many investors were
happy with China’s leader as backed President Obama.  Todd Martin , an Asia equity strategist for Societe Generale
Asia Ltd. in Hong Kong, credits China’s government with
combating inflation and a property bubble. Consumer prices rose
6.2 percent in August from a year before, slowing from a 6.5
percent increase in July.  “So long as China is willing to reform and adapt itself,
its standard of living and opportunities to invest and make
excellent returns are vast,” Martin said.  Over the past 20 years, China’s lowest growth rate was 6
percent in the fourth quarter of 1999, in the aftershocks of the
1997-98 Asian financial crisis.  Split on Consequences  A “hard landing” of less than 5 percent growth for the
world’s most populous nation would be “disastrous” for the
world economy, said  Qu Hongbin , an economist with HSBC in Hong
Kong. The nation wouldn’t be able to create enough jobs for
those entering the workforce, sparking a “serious social
problem,” he said. “I’d rather bet that it’s the end of the
world in five years than to bet on China’s growth falling to 5
percent.”  Not all economists say 5 percent growth is bad for China. A
successful shift to household spending-led expansion would
reduce the chance of higher unemployment and excess borrowing to
fund investment, according to  Michael Pettis , associate
professor of finance at  Peking University .  “China can tolerate a much lower growth, if they shift the
model,” Pettis said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David J. Lynch in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  