-- 
Christie Says He’s Not Running as He Slams ‘Bystander’ Obama

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-09-28T17:22:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/christie-slams-partisan-politics-ahead-of-compromises-that-work.html
New Jersey Governor Chris Christie
said he plans to sit out the 2012 presidential race and then
used a nationally broadcast appearance to assail President
 Barack Obama  as a “bystander in the Oval Office.”  The 49-year-old Republican pointed to video clips on the
 Politico  website of him saying he’s not running. “Click on it,
those are the answers,” he told a capacity crowd at the  Ronald
Reagan Presidential Library  in Simi Valley,  California . That
didn’t stop him from weighing in on the campaign.  “We continue to wait and hope that our president will
finally stop being a bystander in the Oval Office,” Christie
said yesterday. “We hope that he will shake off the paralysis
that has made it impossible for him to take on the really big
things that are obvious to all Americans.”  The governor’s address, carried live by  Fox News  and C-
SPAN, was his most prominent opportunity yet to expand his
influence in national politics. He used it to blast politicians
in both parties for “a Congress at war with itself because they
are unwilling to leave campaign-style politics at the Capitol’s
door.”  Christie, who was interrupted several times by applause
from the audience, called Obama “one of the dividers.”  “Insisting that we must tax and take and demonize those
who have already achieved the American Dream -- that may turn
out to be a good re-election strategy for President Obama, but
is a demoralizing message for America,” Christie said.  Praise for Bipartisanship  The governor pointed to his compromises with the
Democratic-led  New Jersey  Legislature on an overhaul of public-
worker pensions and benefits that he says will save $120 billion
over three decades.  “In New Jersey over the last 20 months, you have actually
seen divided government that is working,” Christie said. “It
does not mean that we have no argument or acrimony. There are
serious disagreements, sometimes expressed loudly.”  He added, “You know, Jersey-style.”  Federal entitlement programs should be subject to stricter
eligibility testing, the governor said.  “Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security, to a lesser
extent, are eating away at every dollar we raise in taxation,”
Christie said. “What we need to do is sit down and get to a
common-sense approach to reduce benefits, to means-test some of
this stuff and get some of the people who don’t need it to stop
taking it so we can get it to the people who do need it.”  Damage to Image  The first-term governor said the nation’s image overseas
has suffered from the management of its domestic affairs.  “Through our own domestic political conduct of late, we
have failed to live up to our own tradition of exceptionalism,”
Christie said. “Our role and ability to affect change has been
diminished because of our own problems and our inability to
effectively deal with them.”  Christie said economic health is a national security issue
for the U.S. and the country has lost its ability to persuade
other nations to follow its example. He called for a more
measured foreign policy, without detailing what he’d change.  “It was very much boilerplate foreign-policy language,”
said  Patrick Murray , director of the Monmouth University polling
institute in  West Long Branch . “Except for the outright attacks
on Obama and references to Reagan, it could have been delivered
by any member of either party.”  ‘Country Needs You’  Christie delivered his speech to 900 people in a lecture
hall decorated with pictures of former presidents.  “It sounds like he’s running,” said Ann Coil, a 70-year-
old career consultant from  Santa Ana , California, and a
coordinator with the  Tea Party .  Randall Hough, a 64-year-old retiree from Alhambra,
California, who is active in Republican politics in  Los Angeles 
County, said he was impressed with Christie’s
“forthrightness.”  “It was a great diagnosis of the president’s failings and
it had guideposts as to the road ahead,” Hough said. “The only
thing that was missing was the announcement of his candidacy.”  Christie, a former U.S. Attorney for New Jersey, took
office last year after defeating incumbent Democrat  Jon Corzine 
amid voter dissatisfaction over the highest property taxes in
the U.S. and the sluggish economy. He became a national
Republican star after cutting $10 billion in projected spending
on schools, pensions and towns in his first budget and requiring
public workers to pay more for health benefits.  Bush, Rice  The governor’s invitation to speak at the Reagan Library
put him in the company of other prominent conservatives who have
spoken in its Perspectives in Leadership series, including
former President  George W. Bush , former Secretary of State
Condoleeza Rice and Fox News commentator  Bill O’Reilly .  “We can’t wait another four years,” one guest said,
imploring Christie to run for president by saying “your country
needs you.” Her words generated a standing ovation. Christie
responded without directly saying “no.”  “I hear exactly what you’re saying,” Christie said.
“It’s extraordinarily flattering. It’s a great honor.”  The governor campaigned across the nation for his party’s
candidates in the 2010 elections, when Republicans captured
control of 11 state legislatures. Christie has presided over a
12-fold increase in out-of-state donations to his state party as
he cashes in chits gained with the campaign stops.  Contributors to New Jersey’s  Republican Party  this year
include New York billionaire John Catsimatidis, who gave $25,000
in June; Kenneth Langone, co-founder of  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , who
gave $10,000 in June; and Paul Fireman, founder of Reebok
International Ltd., with $25,000 in May, according to campaign
finance records.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  