-- 
Citic Securities Said to Raise $1.7B in Hong Kong

-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-09-28T09:58:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/citic-securities-may-sell-shares-below-mid-point-of-price-range.html
Citic Securities Co. raised HK$13.2
billion ($1.7 billion) in  Hong Kong ’s biggest public stock
offering in more than three months, two people with knowledge of
the matter said.  China ’s biggest brokerage by market value sold 995.3
million shares at HK$13.30 apiece, said the people, who declined
to be identified because no announcement has been made. The
stock was initially offered at HK$12.84 to HK$15.20 before banks
managing the sale raised the low end of the range to HK$13.30,
they said.  Citic Securities’ sale is the biggest in Hong Kong since
Italian fashion retailer Prada SpA raised $2.5 billion in June.
The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  is down 20 percent since June and
the value of initial public offerings in the city has dropped 64
percent from the previous quarter amid  Europe ’s escalating
sovereign debt crisis. Other companies may struggle to find
investors for new stock, fund manager Victoria Mio said.  “They put money in this one because Citic is a leader in
one of the growing brokerage markets where the  capital market  is
continuing to open up,” said Mio, a Hong Kong-based money
manager at Robeco NV, whose fund subscribed for shares in the
offering. “With a lot of uncertainties surrounding EU countries,
investors are reluctant to put their money to work.”  Citic Securities fell 2.5 percent to 11.52 yuan in Shanghai
trading today. The Hong Kong sale price is a 5.4 percent
discount to that level.  Cornerstone Backing  The final price values Citic Securities at 1.28 times
estimated 2011 book value and 8.95 times forecast 2011 earnings,
one of the people said. Sukyi Yau, a Hong Kong-based outside
spokeswoman for Citic Securities, declined to comment on the
final pricing.  Citic Securities sold $850 million of shares to so-called
cornerstone investors including  Singapore ’s Temasek Holdings Pte
and  Kuwait Investment Authority , according to a prospectus
released on Sept. 21. That helped shore up support for the sale,
said Philippe Espinasse, former co-head of Asian  equity capital
markets  at Nomura International Hong Kong Ltd.  “They had a pretty significant cornerstone investment
tranche when coming to market,” Espinasse said on Bloomberg
Television today. “Half of the deal was already packed away by
the time they started book-building.”  Cornerstone investors are guaranteed shares in the offering
in return for a pledge not to sell their stock immediately.
Individual investors accounted for just 0.4 percent of the sale,
according to a term sheet obtained by Bloomberg News today.
Individuals were offered as much as 5 percent of the total
shares sold.  Companies have raised $3.9 billion from IPOs in Hong Kong
so far in the third quarter, down from $10.7 billion in the
second quarter, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Citic
Securities’ sale comes just days after XCMG Construction
Machinery Co. scrapped plans for a $1.1 billion Hong Kong
offering and rival construction equipment maker Sany Heavy
Industry Co. delayed a $3.3 billion sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  