-- 
Clinton to Seek Stronger Economic Ties Within the Americas

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-09-28T18:34:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/clinton-to-seek-stronger-economic-ties-within-the-americas.html
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton
will travel to the  Dominican Republic  for a meeting focused on
better integrating the economies of the U.S., Latin and  South
America  and the Caribbean, State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said today.  The Oct. 5 trip “is about trying to harmonize and
integrate our economic policies so all of these free trade
agreements we have can work” together more smoothly, Nuland
said.  Clinton has focused on strengthening existing regional
trade and economic alliances since she took over at State in
2008. While she has focused particularly on Asia, U.S. goods and
services trade with the Western Hemisphere totaled $1.5 trillion
in 2008, the latest full year data from the  U.S. Trade
Representative .  The “Pathways to Prosperity in the Americas” meeting will
be the fourth to bring together government officials, business
leaders, and academics to share best practices that promote
economic growth in the Western Hemisphere, a State Department
statement said.  Participating countries include Belize,  Canada , Chile,
Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico,
Nicaragua, Panama, Peru and Uruguay. The Inter-American
Development Bank, the Organization of American States, and the
Economic Commission for  Latin America  and the Caribbean will
also be represented.  Clinton will be accompanied by Under Secretary for
Political Affairs Wendy Sherman, Assistant Secretary of State
for Economic, Energy and Business Affairs Jose W. Fernandez and
Acting Assistant Secretary for Western Hemisphere Affairs
Roberta Jacobson.  Fernandez and Jacobson will stay in Santo Domingo after the
secretary’s departure to attend the  Americas Competitiveness
Forum , which will focus on increasing competitiveness through
education, innovation in services, renewable energy, the
business climate and easing trade barriers, the State Department
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  