-- 
Commodities Head for Biggest Quarterly Drop Since 2008 on Economy’s Woes

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-09-28T21:43:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/commodities-drop-on-growth-risk-deepening-worst-quarterly-loss-since-2008.html
Commodities fell, heading for the
biggest quarterly slump since 2008, as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
crisis threatened to derail the global economy, slashing raw-
material demand.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials slid
2.7 percent to settle at 603.55 at 3:46 p.m.  New York  time.
Since June 30, the gauge has slumped 9.8 percent, the most since
the last quarter of 2008 during the most-severe recession since
the 1930s. Copper closed at the lowest price in 13 months, and
crude oil fell almost 4 percent.  The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of equities fell for the first time in
four sessions amid increasing concern that European leaders are
divided on handling the region’s debt woes. A report tomorrow
may confirm European consumer confidence dropped to a two-year
low in September. Last week, an index of purchasing managers in
 China  indicated that manufacturing contracted.  “Concern for global growth and bad charts have kind of
thrown some water on the commodity bull market,” Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps oversee $17 billion at BB&T Wealth
Management in Birmingham, Alabama, said in a telephone
interview.  The dollar rose for the first time this week against a
basket of major currencies, diminishing the investment appeal of
raw materials. Confidence among U.S. consumers stagnated in
September close to a two-year low as the share of households
saying that it was difficult to find a job climbed to the
highest in almost three decades, a report said yesterday.  Roubini Outlook  Most advanced nations are lapsing back into recession,
while the U.S. is already in the throes of an economic
contraction, according to  Nouriel Roubini , the chairman of
Roubini Global Economics LLC.  The GSCI has slumped 21 percent since reaching a 32-month
high on April 11. Today, 21 of 24 components of the gauge
dropped, with only cattle prices posted gains.  Copper futures for December delivery fell 19.3 cents, or
5.6 percent, to settle at $3.2465 a pound at 1:16 p.m. on the
Comex in New York. Crude-oil futures for November delivery slid
3.8 percent to $81.21 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange .  The drop in copper indicates “the odds of a recession are
still apparent,”  Adam Klopfenstein , a senior market strategist
at MF Global Holdings Inc. in  Chicago , said in a telephone
interview. “Even if the  euro zone  gets some money together to
cause contagion fears to subside, it still means slower growth
in the near term as the world economy is still digesting a
deleveraging atmosphere.”  Money managers cut the combined net-long position across 18
futures and options by 20 percent in the week ended Sept. 20,
the most since February 2010, data from the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  