-- 
Complexity Office Faces Doubt It Will Dismantle Big Banks

-- B y   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n
-- 
2011-09-28T15:10:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/complexity-office-at-fdic-faces-doubt-it-will-dismantle-biggest-u-s-banks.html
From a glass-walled room known as
the Fishbowl at the Office of Complex Financial Institutions in
 Washington , James Wigand can survey his domain.  The 55-year-old head of the  Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. ’s newest division has the power to dismantle the country’s
22 largest banks, a projected staff of 156 to help him monitor
their health, a $60 million budget and a 65-inch video screen
mounted in the conference room that can connect to any FDIC
office in a crisis.  What he doesn’t have are any resources outside the U.S. to
unwind the lenders’ international operations, the “living
wills” those companies are required to write under the 2010
Dodd-Frank Act or public confidence that his agency will use its
clout to end the too-big-to-fail era.  “A segment of the market won’t believe it until the
authority is used,” said Wigand, who majored in zoology at the
 University of Maryland  and has sifted through the wreckage of
more than 300 failed banks during almost two decades at the
agency. “I hope we never have to use it, but we’ve been given
the power. So once it’s used, the market will believe.”  Doubts about whether the government will let the largest
banks fail have plagued Wigand’s office since its inception last
year. They’ve been fed by the lack of international agreements
on how to wind down the overseas operations of big U.S. lenders.
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  is active in more than 100 countries and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  in more than 60, according to the websites of the
two New York-based firms.  ‘Orderly Liquidation’  “The orderly liquidation powers that Dodd-Frank Act gives
to regulators will not by themselves prevent future government
support of a handful of individual financial institutions,”
 Standard & Poor’s  said in July after reviewing the FDIC’s new
resolution powers.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and Citigroup, the No. 1 and No. 3
U.S. lenders by assets, would have S&P ratings two levels lower
if it weren’t for what the firm considers implicit government
backing. While Moody’s Investors Service lowered estimates of
systemic support baked into its ratings of the largest banks on
Sept. 21, the company said it “continues to see the probability
of support for highly interconnected, systemically important
institutions as very high.”  U.S. banks with assets of  more than $100 billion , the ones
that fall under Wigand’s purview, have paid about half a
percentage point less to borrow than smaller banks since 2008,
the  International Monetary Fund  said in a May report. The
differential, which shows investors’ belief in government
backing for the top banks, didn’t exist between 2003 and 2007.  ‘Right Incentives’  Edward Kane, a professor of finance at Boston College who
has studied failed banks since the 1980s, said that while the
FDIC has “the right incentives” to close big lenders, Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and other officials may not.  Former FDIC Chairman  Sheila Bair , who opposed the
government’s bailout of the biggest banks, has said she clashed
with Geithner during the financial crisis. The U.S. injected
$261 billion of capital into the banks, including $45 billion
each to Citigroup and  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of
America, to keep them going.  The Treasury Department declined to comment.  The FDIC has had the power to seize and dismantle smaller
banks since it was created in 1933. At least 73 FDIC-insured
lenders have  failed  this year, according to the agency. Among
the largest  listed  was Superior Bank of Birmingham,  Alabama ,
with assets of about $3 billion, which was closed in  April  and
reopened under new owners.  Permanent Examiners  Wigand was deputy director of the agency’s resolution
division, which is in charge of selling the assets of failed
lenders, for 13 years before being appointed to his current job.
The biggest bank collapse that occurred on his watch was
Washington Mutual Inc., which had more than $300 billion of
assets when it was seized in 2008. Previously, Wigand worked for
the  Resolution Trust Corp. , created by the U.S. in 1989 to clean
up the bad assets of the 747 savings and loans institutions that
went bust.  In his new post, he’ll be able to call on the 2,200
employees at the agency’s resolution division to help sell the
assets of any big banks that are wound down. His office will
also have permanent examiners at banks in addition to inspectors
from the  Federal Reserve  and the Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency. At the top four lenders, which also include
JPMorgan and San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , Wigand’s
division will have five people each. The Fed has about 20
inspectors at each of the largest firms, while the OCC has 70.  New Options  “Prior to Dodd-Frank, the systemically important companies
thought there was no other option but for the government to bail
them out, so they didn’t sell, merge or recapitalize as
regulators requested them to do,” said Wigand, who also has a
master’s degree in business administration from the University
of Chicago Booth School of Business. “Now there’s a viable
alternative, so they’ll pay attention to what regulators say.”  About half of the positions in Wigand’s division, which
occupies two floors of a satellite office near the agency’s
headquarters, aren’t filled yet. In the meantime, he has 40
employees on loan from other departments at the FDIC.  Among their responsibilities is analyzing the structure of
the banks they’re assigned to cover, how units relate to each
other and who their creditors and trading counterparties are.  Living Wills  “In the past, there was little attention paid to the
terms,” said Jason Cave, deputy director of the complex-
institutions office. “Regulators looked at capital and
liquidity and were comforted when there appeared to be enough of
each. But nobody looked at who’s providing the credit, on what
terms, what are the trends in the industry on liquidity. We’ll
pay more attention to those.”  Wigand’s office is waiting for banks to submit their living
wills -- blueprints of their organizational structures and how
they could be dismantled if necessary. Bank of America,
Citigroup and 10 other lenders with assets of more than $250
billion need to submit such plans by July 2012. Others will have
at least an additional year to comply. The exercise of preparing
these documents will force the largest firms to simplify their
organizations by closing unneeded legal entities, Wigand said.  “These institutions haven’t had a holistic view of the
enterprise,” Wigand said. “Now they’ll have to.”  Legal Entities  The largest banks have hundreds of legal entities
registered under different nations’ laws. When one collapses,
local authorities tend to seize the assets held by the unit
under their jurisdiction, which makes it tougher to sell
businesses at the best value. Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
more than 2,000 legal units are embroiled in at least 50
bankruptcy trials in as many countries. If other governments
don’t cooperate, the FDIC’s efforts to seize a financial firm
with multinational operations could fail.  Regulators from around the world have been discussing how
to set up an international system to wind down globally active
banks. They haven’t managed to come to an agreement because
there’s little enthusiasm for overhauling existing laws or
devising a way to share losses, people involved in the talks
have said.  The lack of an agreement will hamper the FDIC’s ability to
use its resolution authority, said two executives whose firms
come under Wigand’s scrutiny and who asked not to be identified
because they weren’t authorized to speak for their banks.  Heat Maps  Wigand said his division is reaching out to regulators in
other countries where the top U.S. banks operate so there could
be coordinated action. His office has created “heat maps”
showing the core operations of the largest firms, according to
Mary Azevedo, deputy director for international outreach. Those
maps have helped the office identify 20 to 30 countries where
the most vital operations are based, Azevedo said.  While banks have supported the FDIC’s new resolution
authority, they have objected to some elements. In a joint
 letter in May , the American Bankers Association and the
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association said plans
to claw back compensation from senior executives of a seized
bank would be “destabilizing.”  Jamie Dimon , chief executive officer of JPMorgan, has
called for rules to end the bailouts of big banks.  “We should be allowed to fail,” Dimon wrote in a 2009
opinion piece in the Washington Post.  Even if the FDIC wants to use its new authority, it will
have to get the approval of Treasury and could be prevented from
acting by political considerations.  Bailout Debate  Geithner ignored orders from President  Barack Obama  in
early 2009 to consider dissolving Citigroup, according to
“Confidence Men:  Wall Street , Washington, and the Education of
a President,” a new book by Ron Suskind. Geithner has denied
the allegation.  S&P said in its July report that, in the event of another
crisis, Congress could approve a bailout fund such as the $700
billion Troubled Asset Relief Program it passed in 2008. The Fed
could also provide emergency funding as it has done before.  Margaret Tahyar, a partner at law firm Davis Polk &
Wardwell LLP in  New York  who advises clients on bank mergers and
recapitalizations, said Dodd-Frank has made backdoor bailouts
that aren’t authorized by Congress more difficult. She said that
even though banks haven’t submitted living wills yet, the FDIC
could use its new resolution authority today.  “The day the president signed the law, resolution
authority became effective,” Tahyar said.  Avoiding Option B  Martin Gruenberg , the agency’s acting chairman, said at a
conference in Washington last week that the FDIC has drafted its
own resolution plans for the largest banks, even though living
wills haven’t been submitted. Those are already “quite
granular” on details of how to wind down a complex financial
firm, Gruenberg said.  Christopher Whalen , managing director of  Institutional Risk
Analytics  who has been critical of the government’s failure to
restructure troubled big banks, says he’s hopeful Wigand’s
complexity office will do what regulators haven’t done before.  “Banks will want to do the necessary restructuring --
selling down assets, divesting from non-core businesses --
voluntarily, because option B is being taken over by the FDIC,”
said Whalen, whose firm is based in Torrance,  California .
“Option B will crush the management and shareholders and
perhaps even the creditors, so why would anyone opt for that?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yalman Onaran in New York at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 