-- 
Silent Internet-Killer Awaits Its Master’s Orders: Book Review

-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 
2011-09-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/conficker-worm-creates-army-of-drone-computers-awaits-orders.html
As a narrative,  Mark Bowden ’s
“Worm” leaves something to be desired. As a warning, it’s
distinctly unnerving.  “ Worm ” is the story of Conficker, a nasty piece of
software injected into the Internet’s bloodstream in 2008. Since
then it has infected millions of computers worldwide, assembling
the largest-ever “botnet” -- a drone army of machines that,
unknown to their owners, might be ordered at any time to unleash
digital havoc that could bring down global communications
systems, power grids, perhaps the very Internet itself.  Where did Conficker come from, and who was or is behind it?
No one knows, including Bowden, the author of “ Black Hawk
Down .” Perhaps it’s the Ukrainians, or the Chinese, or a “dark
Symantec” -- a commercial criminal enterprise established as
the mirror image of the well-known Internet security firm.
Whoever they were, though, they clearly knew what they were
doing.  The worm combined the best-of-breed malevolence from
previous malware exploits -- chronicled here in sometimes mind-
numbing detail -- with unique advancements of its own. Once it
infected a computer, it would repair the Microsoft Windows
security breach it had exploited, preventing competitors from
coming in behind it. It would also stealthily thwart any effort
by the computer’s owner to install a cure. And then, like a
terrorist sleeper cell, it would simply await instructions from
its unknown master.  Justice League of Nerds  Combating this mortal threat was an ad hoc group of
security experts calling itself the Cabal -- in Bowden’s
telling, a sort of  Justice League of America  of computer nerds
desperately racing against time, official indifference and its
own internal divisions to head off computergeddon.  They included representatives from Microsoft, think-tanks
and the loosely organized bodies that pass for the Internet’s
governing authorities, as well as assorted other industry
consultants.  Conspicuously absent was any representative of the U.S.
government, despite repeated efforts to engage it. The silence
from official quarters proved baffling, until the truth dawned
on the Cabal. “The real reason for the feds’ silence was ...
they had nothing to offer!” Bowden writes. “They were in way
over their heads.”  With a deadline of April 1, 2009, when the botnet was
programmed to become operational, the Cabal struggled to unpeel
Conficker’s protective layers, figure out how it worked and head
it off.  Checking In  Every day, the worm would create and check in with long
lists of randomly generated Internet domains, behind any one of
which its master might lurk. Only as the date approached on
which the zombie army would rouse to life did the populace at
large become aware of its peril. The New York Times ran
articles. “60 Minutes” did a segment. The world held its
breath.  And then ... nothing. The mighty beast shuddered, sent a
little spam and then lapsed back into whatever digital muck
spawned it.  Or did it? Bowden makes a case that the unknown botmaster’s
goal wasn’t to unleash a single crippling attack but to create
an infrastructure that can be exploited at will in the future.  ‘Marshaled for Attack’  “The Conficker botnet, this enormous concentration of
computer power, had been assembled and was still in the hands of
its mysterious creators,” he writes. In hacker jargon, the
millions of infected machines remained “pwned, or owned, and
they could be turned to any task the botmaster defined. They
could be leased for plunder or marshaled for attack.”  The author does his best to maintain the story’s dramatic
tension. But a combination of factors -- the lengthy history of
malware near the beginning of the book, the lack of knowledge on
who perpetrated Conficker and why -- all conspire to make
“Worm” an oddly unsatisfying yarn.  So, too, does a series of annoying factual errors. Personal
computers were widely available in 1984, contrary to the book’s
assertion. Microsoft’s first product, for the pioneering Altair
microcomputer, was a BASIC language interpreter, not an
operating system. And so on.  As a cautionary tale, though, “Worm” is worth attention.
Government officials up to and including President Obama have
taken notice of Conficker and begun to address some of the
issues it raised. But you’ll probably put “Worm” down with the
thought that cyberspace is just as dangerous as the physical
world we inhabit.  “Worm: The First Digital World War” is published by
Atlantic Monthly Press (245 pages, $25). To buy this book in
 North America , click  here .  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is the technology columnist for Bloomberg
News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 