-- 
Corporate Bond Sales Rebounding as Yields Attract Borrowers: Japan Credit

-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 
2011-09-29T06:00:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/corporate-bond-sales-rebound-on-crisis-concerns-japan-credit.html
Sales of Japanese corporate bonds
rebounded this quarter from the weakest first half in five years
as concerns that the European debt crisis may stifle funding and
the lowest yields since October lured borrowers.  Japanese companies offered 2.172 trillion yen ($28.4
billion) of bonds this quarter, up 18 percent from the three
months ended June 30, after the slowest first six months since
the second half of 2006, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. By comparison, sales of corporate Eurobonds plunged
50 percent to $253 billion. Yields on company debt offered in
 Japan , excluding power companies and banks, fell to 0.577
percent on Sept. 26, the lowest in 11 months, from a 2011 high
of 0.827 percent on Feb. 16, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Japan Industrial Index data.  “There’s uncertainty over the global financial system,
which may make funding more difficult in the future,” Takayuki Atake, chief credit analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc., said
in an interview yesterday. “Borrowers want to take advantage of
the good market conditions now by bringing sales forward.”  Concerns the global economy will slump are mounting as the
 International Monetary Fund  cut its forecast for global growth
last week and predicted “severe” repercussions if Europe fails
to contain its debt crisis or U.S. policy makers deadlock over
fiscal plans. The  Bank of Japan  this month kept its key  interest
rate  near zero as it tries to stoke growth and combat deflation
that’s gripped the nation for more than a decade.  Relative Yields  Yields on corporate bonds in the U.S. rose eight basis
points in the quarter to 3.95 percent on Sept. 28, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Corporate Master Index. In
Europe, yields climbed 44 basis points to 4.49 percent,
according to Merrill Lynch’s EMU Corporate Index.  Borrowers including Keihanshin Real Estate Co., an Osaka-
based property manager, Valor Co., a Gifu-based chain store, and
Mori Seiki Co., a Nagoya, Aichi-based machine tools maker,
offered their first bonds this quarter, Bloomberg data show.  Keihanshin priced 7 billion yen of five-year, 0.97 percent
bonds to yield 40 basis points more than the yen swap rate,
while Valor paid a spread of 30 basis points for its similar-
maturity 0.87 percent notes. Mori Seiki paid 19 basis points
more than government bonds for its 15 billion yen sale of 0.545
percent debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  JR East   East Japan Railway Co. (9020) , the world’s largest publicly listed
train operator by sales, was the biggest non-financial borrower
in the quarter. It issued 100 billion yen through a 60 billion
yen sale on July 8 and a 40 billion yen offering on Sept. 2, the
data show.  “We understand the yields are hovering at a historically
low level on global recession concerns and the Bank of Japan’s
additional monetary easing,” JR East spokesman Satohiko Asakura
said in an interview. “We sold those bonds considering both our
funding needs and investors’ demand.”  The Bank of Japan last month enlarged by 50 percent its
asset-purchase fund that buys government bonds, corporate debt
and stock funds.  While the yield premiums corporate borrowers pay over
benchmark  government bonds  are shrinking, a drop in JGB yields
is also helping borrowers tap the market. Japan’s 10-year
government bond yield was little changed at 1 percent as of 2:21
p.m. in Tokyo after this year’s low of 0.965 percent on Sept.
22, according to Japan Bond Trading Co. That compares with its
five-year average of 1.395 percent.  Bank Deposits   Japan’s banks, which hold half of the nation’s corporate
bonds, are helping push yields down after bank deposits exceeded
loans by 163.3 trillion yen last month, according to the latest
data compiled by the Bank of Japan. That followed a record 166.7
trillion yen in June, raising pressure on lenders to find places
to invest the cash.  Sales of corporate bonds this year declined 12.5 percent to
6.085 trillion yen as no nuclear plant operators have tapped the
market since the March 11 temblor and tsunami that crippled
 Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power
plant, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, the Markit iTraxx
Japan index climbed eight basis points to 210 as of 9:20 a.m. in
Tokyo, Citigroup Inc. prices show. Contracts to insure Japanese
government debt for five years increased 3.5 basis points to 142
basis points yesterday, CMA prices show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite. The
contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  Yen Strength  The yen traded at 76.51 per dollar as of 2:20 p.m. in
Tokyo. The Japanese currency appreciated to a post-World War II
high of 75.95 per dollar on Aug. 19, threatening to derail
Japan’s export-led recovery.  The government-run  Development Bank  of Japan sold $1
billion of 1.625 percent bonds due 2016 yesterday. The notes
were priced to yield 45 basis points more than the benchmark
mid-swap rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nissan Financial Services Co. hired Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan
Stanley Securities Co., Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., and SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. for a sale of three-year
and five-year bonds planned next month, according to a statement
from Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley.  Sumitomo Rubber  Sumitomo Rubber Industries Ltd., an automobile and
motorcycle tiremaker, plans to borrow $25 million by the end of
this month from banks led by Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter.  The five-year loan will be priced at 30 basis points more
than the three-month London interbank offered rate, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because the information
is private. The funds will be used for working capital, the
person said.  Spreads on Japan’s corporate bonds will stay narrow for a
while, according to Nobumasa Mizutani, the manager of Mizuho
Trust Banking & Co.’s Credit Spread Strategy fund, Japan’s top-
performing bond fund with 167 billion yen in assets.  “From the global point of view, bond spreads in Japan are
tighter than in  Europe , and there will be pressure to widen
them,” Mizutani said in an interview from Tokyo yesterday.
“There will be short of offerings going forward, and that will
keep the spreads from widening.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  