-- 
Credit Agricole to Cut Debt by 50 Billion Euros, Trim Financing

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-09-28T13:08:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/credit-agricole-to-cut-debt-by-50-billion-euros-trim-financing.html
Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , France’s third-
largest bank, said it will cut debt by 50 billion euros ($68
billion) by December 2012 and reduce the company’s balance sheet
as the sovereign-debt crisis crimps financing options.  Credit Agricole  will slash financing needs at the
corporate- and investment-banking unit by 15 billion euros to 18
billion euros and by 21 billion euros to 23 billion euros at the
retail-banking business, the Paris-based company said in an e-
mailed statement today. It will cut funding requirements at the
specialized financial services unit by 9 billion euros to 11
billion euros, it said.  “Banks have experienced sustained pressure on liquidity in
the last few months,” the lender said in the statement.
“Prudent requirements have become tougher and banks need to
reduce leverage and strengthen balance sheets.”  Credit Agricole plans a “gradual discontinuation of some
businesses” at the investment-banking unit and will make
disposals of loans in specialized financial services along with
“withdrawals of certain businesses” at the division, it said.  Credit Agricole fell 3 cents, or 0.5 percent, to 5.16 euros
at 2:50 p.m. in Paris trading.  Credit Agricole, hurt by its unprofitable Greek consumer-
banking unit, joins  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,
France’s two largest banks, in trimming its balance sheet to
help meet new Basel III capital requirements.  Europe ’s deepening sovereign-debt crisis and a dearth of
short-term U.S. dollar funding forced BNP Paribas and Societe
Generale earlier this month to announce steps to trim about 300
billion euros off their balance sheets.  Credit Agricole last month reported a smaller decline in
net income than analysts estimated and reiterated its profit
goal. The company booked a 202 million-euro pretax writedown on
Greek sovereign debt in the second quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
 Edward Evans  at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net . 