-- 
Cushman & Wakefield Sees Higher Annual Profit on Cost Cuts, New Management

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-09-28T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/cushman-wakefield-sees-higher-annual-profit-on-cost-cuts-new-management.html
Cushman & Wakefield Inc., the
largest closely held commercial real-estate broker, will report
higher earnings this year as cost cuts and management changes
bear fruit, Chief Executive Officer Glenn Rufrano said.  Rufrano, 61, joined Cushman in March 2010 and has
implemented a five-year plan to trim costs and boost profits,
promoting or hiring five managers to a 10-person senior
executive team to carry out the strategy. A recovery in real-
estate and work on large deals helped lift revenue per employee
by more than 10 percent in the first half from a year earlier.  “The plan will really start to show its benefits in
2012,” Rufrano said in an interview in  London  last week. “We
have a more efficient group of people and the wind is blowing on
our backs.”  The New York-based company, controlled by the Agnelli
family’s holding company, reported earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization of $107.3 million for 2010.
In the first half, Ebitda amounted to $8.6 million, an Aug. 29
 statement  showed.  In the first half, Cushman brokered the $715 million sale
of Capital Square in  Singapore  and Conde Nast Publications
Inc.’s 25-year lease of  New York ’s One World Trade Center
building in a deal valued at $2 billion, the broker said.  New Hires  Cushman hired 1,046 people during that period in its five
main divisions: capital markets, corporate occupier and investor
services, consulting, leasing and valuations.  A third of the hires were in  Asia , which accounts for 8
percent of Cushman’s annual revenue. In  Europe , where Cushman
gets about 25 percent of its revenue, the company has focused on
expanding its leasing as well as its property and facilities-
management capabilities in  Russia  and former Soviet bloc
countries. The Americas account for 55 percent of revenue.  Higher earnings reflect the cost cuts coupled with a
recovery in leasing and property sales since 2008, when the
freeze in credit markets and ensuing recession led companies to
defer relocation plans and curb real-estate investment.  Rufrano said Cushman favors expanding through recruiting or
partnerships with local operators, though he didn’t rule out
acquisitions.  CB Richard Ellis Group Inc., a larger broker, agreed in
February to buy ING Groep NV’s global real estate asset
management arm for about $940 million. Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.,
another competitor, bought London-based King Sturge LLP in May
for about $300 million.  Sovereign Debt Crisis  Cushman normally completes most of its large investment and
leasing deals in the second half of the year. Rufrano said the
sovereign-debt crisis in the euro region is prompting investors
to shun riskier, non-prime real estate assets for safer, income-
producing properties.  “Since August, things have changed and there’s no
consensus about what’s going to happen,” Rufrano said.
“Pricing is going to be tough” because of a mismatch in
expectations between sellers and prospective buyers, he said.  Cushman shed about 18 percent of its staff in 2009 to cut
costs and weather the recession, Chairman Carlo Sant’Albano said
in the same interview.  “The business needed to be streamlined,” said
Sant’Albano, a 47-year-old board member of  Exor SpA (EXO) , the Turin-
based company that bought 75 percent of Cushman in 2007. Exor
also owns stakes in Fiat SpA, SGS SA and Juventus soccer club.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 