-- 
Daily Mail Editor Paul Dacre Says Regulation Won’t Solve Hacking Scandal

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-10-12T12:54:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/daily-mail-publisher-seeks-tabloid-input-in-phone-hacking-probe.html
Paul Dacre, editor of Associated
Newspapers Ltd.’s Daily Mail, said phone hacking at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
News of the World tabloid exposed police failures and government
hypocrisy rather than a need for more industry regulation.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  and other politicians who
were previously too close to  Rupert Murdoch ’s newspapers are now
hypocritically calling for better media regulation, Dacre said
at a government inquiry. Self regulation of the industry has
improved since the 1970s and isn’t to blame for the hacking
scandal, which police failed to investigate earlier, he said.  “Over-regulate the press and you put democracy itself in
peril,” Dacre said in  London  today. “Who should decide what’s of
interest to the public? Politicians? Judges? Is that really what
Britain wants?”  The probe, overseen by Judge Brian Leveson, was announced
in July by Cameron nine days after the revelation that
journalists at News of the World hacked into the phone of a
murdered school girl in 2002. The probe’s scope extends beyond
the now-shuttered tabloid, covering press ethics and its
relationship with politicians and police.  Dacre said self regulation should be improved instead of
enacting laws that would be put in place by politicians who may
be the target of newspaper investigations, creating a conflict.
An ombudsman should be named to assist the Press Complaints
Commission, to oversee investigations of the most egregious
journalistic failures, he said. He also said Cameron had
prejudiced the inquiry by saying the PCC was a failure.  Trinity Mirror Chief Executive Officer Sly Bailey told the
same inquiry today that her company, which publishes Britain’s
Daily Mirror and more than 160 other newspapers, banned the use
of private investigators and regularly evaluates risks to the
company, including “catastrophic editorial failure,” as
part of its wide ranting corporate governance procedures.  Associated Newspapers is a unit of  Daily Mail & General
Trust Plc. (DMGO)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  