-- 
Danish EKF Seeks to Extend Loan Program on Clean Energy Demand

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-09-28T12:30:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/danish-ekf-seeks-to-extend-loan-program-on-clean-energy-demand.html
Eksport Kredit Fonden  is seeking to
extend a 20 billion-kroner ($3.7 billion) loan program that
plugs a gap in the market left by the financial crisis for long-
term loans required by clean energy projects.  “It’s not possible to get tenures that long in the private
market, or it is very hard,” because of the banking crisis that
began in 2008, Anette Eberhard, who heads the Danish state
export credit agency, said in an interview.  Under the program, Copenhagen-based EKF can lend on terms
as long as 18 years at market rates with most of the loans
issued so far going to renewable energy projects that are
capital-intensive and require longer payback times, she said.  The Danish government created the export loan program in
2009, supplying the EKF with 20 billion kroner to help foreign
companies unable to secure longer-term loans from banks
reluctant to lend in the crisis to buy Danish goods such as  wind
turbines  made by Vestas Wind Systems A/S.  The EKF lends to commercial banks that add their own fees
and distribute funds to the borrower. The EKF also requires an
export guarantee for the loan. The government planned to extend
the program that is due to expire at the end of this year in May
to 2015 on continued demand.  Since then,  Denmark ’s Social Democrat-led opposition bloc
defeated the Liberal-Conservative government and its allies.
Social Democrat leader Helle Thorning Schmidt has yet to
conclude three-party negotiations for a new government.  The Danish newspaper Berlingske reported that talks to form
the government may be completed today. “I’m pretty sure that if
we run out of money, we will be able to ask the politicians for
a larger amount of money,” Eberhard said.  Macarthur Wind Farm  The EKF already issued seven loans worth 6.7 billion kroner
under the initiative. In addition, it has approved at least 15
applications worth about 10 billion kroner. Of those, it expects
to issue three in the next six months.  “Regardless of the specific makeup of Denmark’s new
coalition government, there is generally strong support from the
politicians to prolong this program because we still see great
demand,’ Eberhard said.  The EKF supplied a 2.1 billion-kroner facility to Meridian
Energy Ltd., the  New Zealand  renewable electricity generator,
and Melbourne-based electricity supplier  AGL Energy Ltd. (AGK)  That
enabled a 1 billion-kroner contract with Vestas for 140 turbines
for the 420-megawatt Macarthur wind farm that Meridian and AGL
are developing in Victoria,  Australia , according to a  statement 
on EKF’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  