-- 
BofA’s Darnell Vows to ‘Get Out of the Way’ as Leader of Merrill Brokers

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-09-28T14:18:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/darnell-tells-merrill-s-brokers-he-ll-stay-out-of-their-way.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s David Darnell, the commercial banker put in charge of the lender’s
Merrill Lynch brokerage, promised employees he’ll do anything
including “get out of the way” to help them improve results.  Darnell, 58, addressed the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
lender’s  16,241  financial advisers on Sept. 13 for the first
time since being named co-chief operating officer. His message:
leaders including  John Thiel , head of U.S. wealth management and
Andrew Sieg, head of global wealth and retirement solutions,
will be running the show.  “My job is to do everything I can to help and if not, I’m
going to get out of the way,” Darnell told a standing-room
only, town hall-style meeting at One  Bryant Park  in New York,
according to an account obtained by Bloomberg. Existing managers
are “who’s going to run this business, and I want to be very
clear about that.”  Darnell must reassure members of the world’s most
profitable brokerage -- known as the “Thundering Herd” because
of Merrill’s bull logo -- that they’ll be unscathed by the
latest management shuffle. Ever since Bank of America took over
Merrill Lynch & Co. in 2009, the firm has faced speculation that
top-performing brokers would leave amid concern that their new
parent would erode Merrill’s culture and pay.  Management Changes  The firm’s advisers saw  John Thain , Merrill’s chief
executive officer, ousted within weeks of the takeover. Earlier
this month,  Sallie Krawcheck , head of the division that included
the brokerage, was forced out as CEO  Brian T. Moynihan  shook up
management. Darnell was named to run the bank’s operations along
with Thomas K. Montag, 54, who oversees trading,  investment
banking  and corporate banking.  Darnell, the former president of commercial lending who
started at a predecessor to Bank of America more than three
decades ago, is now responsible for operations including
deposits, credit cards, mortgages and wealth management, which
includes the brokerage. He professed respect for Merrill’s
brokers during the New York meeting and said he wouldn’t change
their compensation or brand, which “is going to be strong
forever,” he said.  Susan Thomson, a Bank of America spokeswoman, confirmed
Darnell had made the remarks and said she couldn’t comment.  “His objective right now is simply to steady the ship,”
said  Tim White , a partner at Dallas-based executive recruitment
firm Kaye/Bassman International Corp. Darnell is addressing
advisers’ concerns that he’ll run the business “to the lowest
common denominator. But there will be changes because they need
to cut costs. If Bank of America could sell investment advice
through an ATM machine, they’d do it.”  Cross-Selling  Advisers will be in charge of offering bank products to
clients when needed, Darnell said. Brokers, who depend on
commissions and fees, had complained that the lender pushed them
to hawk credit cards, mortgages and other bank products as part
of a company-wide “cross-selling” strategy, according to two
Merrill Lynch brokers who asked for anonymity because they
weren’t authorized to speak publicly.  The guiding principle for cross-sales will be customer
demand, “where you’re there to take care of a client and
whatever that client needs,” Darnell said.  “It’s your
decision based on your client’s need.”  Rivals including Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, UBS AG and
independent brokerages have stepped up efforts to poach top
Merrill advisers, said Jonathan Henschen, a broker recruiter
based in Marine on St. Croix,  Minnesota . Enticements from a
large firm may be worth as much as 300 percent of an adviser’s
trailing 12-month revenue, he said.  What She Said  Darnell’s comments echoed the sentiment of his
predecessor’s opening remarks to the brokerage two years ago.
Krawcheck, 46, reassured advisers that she wouldn’t turn Merrill
“into a place I’ve been before” after she joined Bank of
America from Citigroup Inc. in August 2009.  “Those are great institutions, but this is a fantastic,
fantastic business,” Krawcheck said.  Bank of America’s  wealth management  division produced $506
million in net income in the second quarter on $4.5 billion in
revenue, while the overall company  posted  a record $8.8 billion
loss on expenses tied to faulty mortgages. The lender has lost
half its market value this year on concern that costs from the
2008 takeover of subprime lender Countrywide Financial Corp.
could force it to issue new shares to bolster capital.  Moynihan, 51, has said he can trim $5 billion in expenses
from  consumer banking , partly by eliminating 30,000 jobs over
the coming years. The next phase of Project New BAC, Moynihan’s
efficiency plan, starts next month and examines wealth
management, commercial and investment banking operations.  When asked if that effort will yield the same level of
savings as the first phase, Moynihan said this month at a
conference that there could be less opportunity for cost-cutting
because staff compensation is a large component of expenses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at   hson1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 