-- 
Deadly Cantaloupes Have Colorado Scientists Seeking Answers After 13 Die

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m   a n d   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 
2011-09-29T04:00:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/deadly-cantaloupes-underscore-food-safety-needs-advocates-say.html
Colorado  scientists are working to
pinpoint how melons linked to the deadliest U.S. outbreak of
food-borne illness since 1998 became contaminated.  “Bacteria on the outside can be internalized, or get
inside the cantaloupe if they’re not washed properly,”  Lawrence
Goodridge , an associate professor of food microbiology at
Colorado State University in  Fort Collins , said in an interview
yesterday. “It can be very complicated to figure out, and in
many cases the actual reason for the contamination is not
found.”  Goodridge is studying samples from the melon-processing
line at Jensen Farms in Granada, Colorado -- where federal
officials traced the  outbreak  -- including washing pans,
conveyor belts and floor drains.  At least 13 people have died from  listeria infections 
linked to cantaloupes, with 72 people in 18 states ill with
listeriosis traced to the tainted fruit, the Atlanta-based
 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  said Sept. 27 in a
 statement . More illnesses are expected because people can become
sick as long as two months after eating the contaminated
produce,  Thomas Frieden , director of the CDC, said yesterday.  Colorado is the nation’s fifth-largest producer of
cantaloupe, with about 2,200 acres valued at about $8 million
harvested in 2010, according to the state’s Department of
Agriculture.  Melon Warning  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  on Sept. 14 warned
consumers not to eat melons from Colorado’s Rocky Ford region
shipped by Jensen Farms. The FDA is also investigating how the
melons became contaminated, looking at animal intrusions in
fields and growing, harvesting, packing and rinsing practices.  Jensen Farms, about 228 miles (367 kilometers) southeast of
Denver, voluntarily recalled its 2011 cantaloupe harvest in
September. More than 300,000 cases of melons representing an
estimated 40 percent of the Rocky Ford region’s output were
recalled, said Amy Philpott, a spokeswoman for the farm.  As federal and local officials searched for the cause,
farmers sought to quash the idea that all melons grown in the
region are suspect. “Rocky Ford cantaloupes (Grown Only in
Rocky Ford, Colorado) are not infected with listeria,” Smith
Farms says in large letters on its  website.   Part of Culture  Cantaloupe is integral to the culture of the 150-mile-long
Arkansas Valley, where many families are third- and fourth-
generation melon farmers and high-school sports teams call
themselves the “Meloneers.”  “At the football game, instead of a kid running around in
a lion suit, or a bear suit, they have a fighting melon,” said
Mike Bartolo, a vegetable crop specialist with  Colorado State
University  who grew up in the region and is based in Rocky Ford.  The region’s produce is also part of popular culture. W.C.
Fields quipped that bald men have a “head shaped like a Rocky
Ford cantaloupe,” and Lucille Ball once asked for one to be
delivered to her dressing room, according to the Rocky Ford
Melon Co.’s website.  The melon contamination follows the August recall of 36
million pounds of ground turkey produced by Minneapolis-based
Cargill Inc. in the second-biggest U.S. meat recall. The
outbreaks have drawn increased attention to the safety of the
U.S. food supply. The salmonella outbreak traced to the meat
killed one person and sickened more than 70.  Preventing Illness  “It’s urgent that we move to a system that prevents people
from getting sick rather than chasing down problems after we
have deaths and illnesses,” Erik Olson, the director of food
programs for the Pew Health Group in  Washington , said yesterday
in an interview.  Food poisoning strikes an estimated 48 million people in
the U.S. each year, leading to 128,000 hospitalizations and
3,000 deaths, according to the CDC. Food-borne illnesses cost
the nation’s economy about $152 billion annually in health-care
expenses and lost productivity, according to a 2010  report  by
Georgetown University’s  Produce Safety Project  in Washington.  Funding for  food safety  is under pressure from
congressional budget cuts. Full funding is necessary to improve
inspections, said Caroline Smith DeWaal, food-safety director
for the Center for Science in the Public Interest in Washington.
New rules to make sure food doesn’t become contaminated and that
tainted food is handled properly are needed to limit illnesses,
she said in an e-mail Sept. 27.  “The cantaloupes have been recalled, but they may have
left behind the deadly pathogen in consumers’ homes and
refrigerators,” she said.  The FDA already has guidelines for melons. Rules due to be
made final in 2013 would require, rather than suggest,
procedures for companies. Current  melon guidelines  “set an
excellent foundation for the rules when they are issued,” FDA
spokesman Doug Karas said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
 joldham1@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
1857 or  abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  