-- 
Demand for U.S. Capital Goods Rises by Most in Three Months

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-09-28T20:40:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/demand-for-u-s-capital-goods-climbs-most-in-three-months-in-recovery-sign.html
Orders for U.S. capital goods
climbed in August by the most in three months, a sign business
investment continues to support the recovery.  Bookings for goods like computers and communications gear,
excluding military hardware and aircraft, climbed 1.1 percent,
the most since May, a Commerce Department report showed today in
Washington. Demand for all durable goods dropped 0.1 percent,
less than forecast.  Manufacturers like  General Electric Co. (GE)  continue to benefit
from sales to  China ,  India  and other emerging markets even as
they face a slowdown in domestic spending. Gains in business
investment in the U.S. indicate companies are looking beyond the
plunge in stocks and concern over the European debt crisis and
are seeking to expand.  “Companies are still willing to continue with their
investment intentions despite the recent financial-market
volatility,” said Neil Dutta, an economist at Bank of America
Corp. in  New York . “The risk was always that the recent
volatility would prompt a pullback among businesses. At the
moment there are no signs of that happening in any meaningful
way.”  Economists at Barclays Capital Inc. and JPMorgan Chase &
Co. were among those who raised their tracking estimate for
third-quarter growth after the figures showed stronger
investment and inventory building.  Shares Fall  Stocks dropped amid growing concern that European leaders
are divided over how to handle  Greece ’s debt crisis. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 2.1 percent to 1,151.06 at the
4 p.m. close in New York. The yield on the benchmark 10-year
note rose to 1.99 percent from 1.97 percent late yesterday.  The median projection of 77 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a 0.2 percent decline in total orders.
Estimates ranged from a 3.4 percent drop to a 2.7 percent
increase.  The August gain in orders for non-defense capital goods
excluding aircraft, a proxy for future business investment,
followed a 0.2 percent drop in July that was smaller than
previously estimated.  Shipments of those items, used in calculating gross
domestic product, increased 2.8 percent, the most since March,
after rising a revised 0.4 percent gain the prior month. The
Commerce Department had originally reported a drop for July.  Tax Break  The business spending that helped lead the economy out of
recession in mid-2009 may be further supported by a December
agreement between President  Barack Obama  and congressional
Republicans. Companies will be able to depreciate 100 percent of
capital equipment put in service by the end of this year.  Total orders were depressed by an 8.5 percent drop in
demand for automobiles and parts, the biggest decrease since
February 2010, today’s report showed.  Bookings climbed 5.5 percent for computers last month, and
increased 7.8 percent for communications gear.  The report may ease concern manufacturing was slumping
after recent regional data showed factories cutting back in
September. New York-region factories shrank for a fourth
straight month and manufacturing in the Philadelphia area
contracted for a third time in four months, figures from the
 Federal Reserve  showed.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory production
and orders indexes for August both showed contraction.  Any further weakening in manufacturing would be more of a
concern as much of the growth in the second quarter came from
corporate investment and trade as  consumer spending  stagnated.  Overseas Sales  Overseas sales remain a source of strength for some
manufacturers, including General Electric.  “At a time of, I would say, global volatility, we still
see robust demand for our infrastructure products,”  Jeffrey
Immelt , chairman and chief executive officer of GE, said Sept.
26 in Pune, India. “We still feel quite good about our
prospects on a global basis.”  The Fed’s policy-setting committee on Sept. 21 said
economic growth “remains slow” even as “business investment
in equipment and software continues to expand.”  “There are significant downside risks to the economic
outlook, including strains in global financial markets,” it
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  