-- 
Dimon Said to Meet Romney After Candidate’s Call for Repeal of Bank Rules

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-09-28T20:52:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/dimon-said-to-meet-romney-after-candidate-s-call-for-repeal-of-bank-rules.html
Jamie Dimon ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
chief executive officer who has been critical of new banking
rules, met yesterday with Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney who has called for their repeal.  Dimon, who was once dubbed President Barack Obama’s
“favorite banker” by The New York Times, publicly questioned
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke in June on financial
regulatory costs. He also called and e-mailed lawmakers as House
and Senate negotiators wrote the final banking bill.  He met with Romney, a former Massachusetts governor and co-
founder of the Boston-based private equity firm Bain Capital
LLC, in New York yesterday morning, according to a JPMorgan
official speaking on condition of anonymity because he wasn’t
authorized to comment on the meeting.  Andrea Saul, a Romney spokeswoman, did not respond to
requests for comment.  Dimon, a board member of the  New York Fed , has been among
the business executives who met with Obama at the White House.
He was once considered a candidate to become treasury secretary
before the president tapped  Timothy Geithner .  He has not donated to any presidential candidates this
year, according to the  Center for Responsive Politics , a
Washington-based research group that tracks political giving.  Employees of New York-based JPMorgan gave $808,799 to Obama
for his 2008 campaign, second only to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
among financial companies. Dimon was not among the Obama donors.  In his jobs plan, Romney called for repeal of the new
financial law. He said it “sends a flood of new regulations
washing over the financial sector and anyone seeking to borrow
money to buy a home or build a business.”  Romney’s stance has strong appeal on  Wall Street , where he
has raised more money than Obama so far this year, and more than
100 people -- mostly investors -- who gave to the president
during his 2008 race have now contributed to Romney’s
presidential bid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 