-- 
Discover Faces FDIC Enforcement Claim Over Marketing Practices

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-09-29T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/discover-faces-fdic-enforcement-claim-over-marketing-practices.html
Discover Financial Services (DFS) , the
top performer this year in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials
Index, said U.S. regulators plan to bring an enforcement case
over how the credit-card issuer marketed fee-based products.  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., which regulates firms
that accept customer deposits, decided to press the claim after
investigating the bank’s marketing practices, Riverwoods,
Illinois-based Discover said yesterday in a quarterly filing.  “Since well before the FDIC’s review began, Discover Bank
has made changes to both its fee-based products and program, and
Discover Bank believes its current practices substantially
address the FDIC’s concerns,” the lender said in the filing.  Minnesota Attorney General Lori Swanson sued the company in
December 2010, claiming that Discover telemarketers failed to
tell consumers when they were agreeing to purchase optional,
fee-based services, including payment protection. Discover, led
by Chief Executive Officer David Nelms, 50, agreed in June to a
preliminary settlement of eight class-action cases challenging
its marketing tactics, according to an earlier filing.  The company’s telemarketers, selling identity-theft and
credit-score monitoring services, failed to tell consumers when
they were agreeing to buy those products, which generated more
than $300 million for Discover in 2009, Swanson had said.  “While disappointed by their decision, Discover has
cooperated fully with the FDIC and we look forward to putting
the matter behind us,” Leslie Sutton, a company spokeswoman,
said in an e-mailed statement.  Andrew Gray , a spokesman for the FDIC, declined to comment.  West Virginia , Missouri  The West Virginia Attorney General’s office sued Discover
last month, challenging the firm’s enrollment of card-holders in
fee-based products, according to yesterday’s filing.  “The company will seek to vigorously defend all claims
asserted against it,” Discover said.  The Missouri Attorney General’s office also is
investigating Discover’s marketing of its payment-protection
service and the lender is cooperating with the probe, according
to the filing.  Discover fell 98 cents to $23.88 yesterday in New York. The
shares have climbed 29 percent this year, compared with a 25
percent decline for the 84-company  S&P 500 Financials Index. (S5FINL)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 