-- 
Could Executioner Come on a Little Earlier? Manuela Hoelterhoff

-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 
2011-09-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/diva-s-beheading-raises-cheers-boredom-as-met-opens-manuela-hoelterhoff.html
“Anna Bolena,” Donizetti’s
melodious setting of  Anne Boleyn ’s last moments on earth, opened
at the  Metropolitan Opera  on Monday in a new production
featuring  Anna Netrebko  and two handsome Irish wolfhounds who
helped us get through one very tedious scene.  When Henry VIII finally told his exhausted court he was
leaving to go do some hunting in Windsor Park, one dog drooled a
little and the other collapsed into a snooze.  Boredom was hard to fight off as the hours ground on in
this first hearing of “Anna Bolena” at the Met since its world
premiere in 1830. Not helping was conductor Marco Armiliato, who
didn’t reach his customary velocity until the second act.  What a staid, stately show this is, stuffed with
expensively puffed period costumes by Jenny Tiramani and
directed by David McVicar, whose last staging for the Met was
the more electric “Il trovatore.”  Perhaps every singer should be given a critter by Met
manager  Peter Gelb , who was possibly misguided in thinking these
performers could get through such an ornamented masterpiecelet
all by themselves.  Even Netrebko, a Russian diva with a big following, was a
pallid presence in the first act, though she did come alive as
the executioner loomed.  He needs to arrive earlier.  The Met performs “Anna Bolena” in an edition that opens
up too many traditional cuts, most obviously a prison aria for
foolish Percy, whose pursuit of the queen condemns them both.  Help Me  Stephen Costello, an attractive young tenor with a nice
ping to his voice, gasped for high notes in a long song that
didn’t need to be aired in the first place. He seemed terrified.
Why put him through this torture?  These bel canto works from the early 19th century demand
technique, imagination and the artistry to find the heart
beating inside cascading coloratura.  Which brings me to  Maria Callas  (1923-77). In 1957, the
Greek-American diva and future yacht ornament of Ari Onassis,
triumphed in a fabled La Scala production directed by Luchino
Visconti and starring another legend, Giulietta Simionato, as
Giovanna (Jane) Seymour, who will take her place on the throne.  The live recording shows Callas’s spellbinding artistry and
eerie voice at the height of her career. Just listen to the
YouTube clips of “Coppia Iniqua” (vile couple), in which Anna
rails against Henry, Jane Seymour and her own fate.  Leyla Gencer,  Beverly Sills  and Edita Gruberova all left
souvenirs of their ability to transform lots of little notes
into searing drama.  Netrebko’s cool, uninflected voice isn’t meant for
Donizetti. Here is music that requires more pathos and
individuality than is hers to give, though there were times when
she certainly met the challenge.  In particular, I liked her way with “Giudici! Ad Anna?”
when the frightened queen confronts the king who has condemned
her to be judged.  Director McVicar has a rare talent for moving crowds.
Especially Anna’s ladies-in-waiting were handled with skill.
And, aided by that supreme mistress of mood, lighting designer
Paule Constable, he heightened the sense of foreboding that
soaks the huge sets by  Robert Jones . They change constantly,
offering new vistas of doors, walls and scary guards.  Tamara Mumford  The grayness of the walls did get wearying after a few
hours, and the last scene featuring a surprising appearance by
Darth Vader as the executioner, might be rethought.  Ultimately, the scenes that so often failed to ignite
involved Ildar Abdrazakov as Henry and Ekaterina Gubanova, a
curiously mousy Jane Seymour.  Abdrazakov probably had the most affinity for his difficult
music, despite a weak bottom range, but the mezzo’s metallic
timbre was utterly wrong for Jane’s melting phrases. That’s not
her fault. How many singers can say no to an opening-night offer
at the Met?  Memorable, however, was Tamara Mumford, who brought
presence and a warm tone to the musician Smeaton. When she
staggered in after a bloody session with the torturer, we got a
jarring glimpse into the horror of Henry’s court. The show might
have offered more.  The performance on Saturday, Oct. 15, will be transmitted
to participating movie houses. Bloomberg LP provides global
corporate sponsorship for “The Met: Live in HD.”  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net  