-- 
Domino’s Plunges as Third-Quarter Sales Growth Misses Estimates

-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 
2011-09-28T13:37:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/domino-s-pizza-sees-full-year-in-line-with-market-forecasts.html
Domino’s Pizza U.K. & Ireland Plc,
the U.K.’s biggest pizza-delivery company, fell the most in more
than three years in London trading after third-quarter
sales grew at a slower pace than forecast by some analysts.  The shares fell as much as 13 percent, the most since June
2008, after the company said in a statement today that sales at
outlets open more than a year advanced 3.9 percent in the 13
weeks to Sept. 25. Panmure Gordon had estimated sales growth of
5.5 percent. First-half same-store sales increased 2.4 percent,
Domino’s said in July.  Domino’s has sought to benefit from cash-strapped consumers
ordering takeaway food rather than eating out by introducing new
ranges such as a stuffed-crust pizza and a Gourmet line, which
it promoted by sponsoring ITV’s “Red or Black?” television
game show. The company has also boosted its Internet offering,
with an application for Apple Inc.’s iPhone, and increased its
marketing spend.  “Bearing in mind this quarter had the full benefit of
stuffed crust, Gourmet pizza and upweighted advertising spend,
including the sponsorship of ‘Red or Black?,’ we think the
market will be disappointed with the update,” Simon French, a
London-based analyst at Panmure Gordon, wrote in an e-mailed
note to clients today. “For a stock we forecast to grow
earnings 13 percent this year, we view it as too expensive.”  Domino’s dropped as much as 66.6 pence to 441.90 pence and
traded at 444.6 pence as of 2:34 p.m. Before today, the stock
had gained 31 percent in the past three months.  ‘Fair Value’  “The stock has done well over the last quarter,”
Geetanjali Sharma, a London-based analyst at Espirito Santo
Investment Bank, said in a phone interview. “Management is not
indicating near-term expectations will be beat. Given no
immediate upgrades coming in, this is profit-booking”  Peel Hunt analyst  Paul Hickman  reduced his rating on the
stock to “hold” from “buy,” citing the recent share price
increase. “With 2011 earnings growth of 12 percent, combined
with its longer term strengths, we believe the shares are
currently close to fair value.”  Domino’s added 15 outlets in the quarter, giving a total of
698 stores in the U.K. and Ireland and four in Germany. The
company said it’s on target to open 64 stores this year.  The  Milton Keynes , England-based company opened a store
each in Berlin and Bonn as part of its plan to open at least 400
outlets in Germany in the next 10 years. Domino’s acquired a 75
percent interest in the main German franchisee in April.
Research suggests  Germany  can support as many as 1,700 outlets,
Chief Financial Officer Lee Ginsberg said in July.  Internet Sales   System sales gained 9.8 percent to 127 million pounds
($198.7 million) during the quarter, and 9.2 percent in the year
to date. Internet sales rose 36 percent to 45 million pounds in
the quarter, with e-commerce accounting for 46.6 percent of
U.K.-delivered sales. Orders taken on mobile platforms account
for 13 percent of all e-commerce sales.  “Although the economy as a whole is still very tough, we
have got exciting plans for the rest of the year,” Chief
Executive Officer Chris Moore said in the statement. Moore will
step down as CEO on Dec. 25, to be succeeded by Deputy Chief
Executive Lance Batchelor, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at  njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  