-- 
DreamWorks Animation Said to Weigh Distribution as Paramount Accord Ends

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 
2011-09-29T16:11:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/dreamworks-animation-said-to-weigh-distribution-as-paramount-accord-ends.html
DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) ,
producer of the “Shrek” films, may take over distribution of
its movies when an accord with  Paramount Pictures  ends next
year, three people with knowledge of the situation said.  The studio is considering delivering films to theaters
electronically, said the people, who declined to speak publicly.
Glendale, California-based DreamWorks Animation may also
distribute movies for other producers, one person said.  DreamWorks Animation, which releases two to three films a
year, would gain control over the marketing and scheduling of
its movies at a time when theater consolidation and technology
are making distribution cheaper and easier. Offering those
services to others would add revenue to offset costs.  “There has never been a better time for a studio to
distribute its own films,” said Peter Hoffman, a partner at the
boutique investment bank GHL & Co. in  New York . “Content has
appreciated from a few years back and the costs of distributing
are sharply reduced.”  The studio, led by Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Katzenberg , hasn’t made a decision, one person said. DreamWorks
Animation could still sign with another Hollywood studio when
the deal with Paramount ends. Self-distribution would require
DreamWorks Animation to market its own movies and find a new
partner for releasing outside the U.S.  Shannon Olivas, a DreamWorks Animation spokeswoman,
declined to comment. The company has until the second or third
quarter of next year to decide how to replace Paramount,
Katzenberg said on an April 26 earnings call with analysts.  Cinema Upgrades  DreamWorks Animation rose 23 cents to $19.39 at 12:09 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares had
declined 35 percent this year before today.  U.S. cinemas are being weaned from bulky and costly-to-
print film reels. Of the 39,000 U.S. screens, 21,781 have the
ability to receive movies digitally, according to the  National
Association of Theatre Owners .  Paramount, a unit of Viacom Inc., has distributed and
marketed DreamWorks Animation films since 2006 and receives a
fee of 8 percent for certain film revenue, including theatrical
and DVD. That agreement expires Dec. 31, 2012, company filings
show. Paramount announced plans for its own animation unit in
July, with the first title scheduled for 2014.  DreamWorks Animation had asked Paramount to reduce its fee
to extend the deal, the  Los Angeles  Times reported on Aug. 1.  On Sept. 26, DreamWorks Animation said it would offer its
movies online through the  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  subscription service
starting in 2013. The agreement allows the studio to exit an
arrangement with  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s  HBO  sooner than scheduled.  By doing so, DreamWorks Animation passed up an agreement
with a premium pay TV channel in favor of an online service.
Movies typically appear on premium channels after their
theatrical run and DVD debut in stores.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ronald Grover in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  