-- 
Dubai’s Shares Slump to 7-Month Low Led by Emaar on Europe Woes

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-09-28T12:46:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/dubai-s-shares-head-to-7-month-low-led-by-emaar-on-europe-woes.html
Dubai’s stocks slumped to the
lowest level in almost seven months, led by  Emaar Properties
PJSC (EMAAR) , as oil declined and amid concern  Greece ’s effort to cut
its deficit won’t be enough to prevent a default.  Emaar, developer of the world’s tallest tower, declined 1.4
percent.  Emirates Integrated Telecommunications Co. (DU) , the  United
Arab Emirates phone company known as Du, dropped to the lowest
since March. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  lost 0.7 percent to 1,438.41,
its lowest since March 8, at the 2 p.m. close in the emirate.
The measure is headed for its fourth quarterly drop, retreating
5.2 percent since the end of June. About 57 million shares
traded in Dubai today, compared with this year’s daily average
of 113 million shares.  “Our markets are lacking leadership, and what we’re seeing
in the rest of the world is increasing the fear factor,” said
Mohammed Ali Yasin, chief investment officer at Abu Dhabi-based
financial services company CAPM Investments PJSC. “We have been
defensive in the face of volatile global markets, but it’s
worrying that we’re not seeing the same rebounds here that we
see there.”  European stocks fell after the Financial Times reported
that some euro-area countries are demanding private creditors
take bigger writedowns on their Greek bond holdings. German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  said the country is ready to fulfill
the conditions laid down by the so-called troika assessing Greek
progress at meeting the terms of its international rescue. The
STOXX Europe 600 Index decreased as much as 1.3 percent.  Lack of Rebound  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index, down 22 percent this
quarter, rallied 4.9 percent yesterday and the Standard and
Poor’s 500 Index increased 1.1 percent as Greece made progress
in meeting requirements for more international aid. Dubai’s
measure rose 0.1 percent yesterday.  Oil for November delivery slid as much as 2.1 percent to
$82.66 a barrel, headed for the biggest quarterly decline since
2008. Gulf Arab oil exporters, including the U.A.E. and  Saudi
Arabia , supply about a fifth of the world’s oil.  Emaar lost to 2.73 dirhams, the lowest since March 10, and
Du dropped 1.3 percent to 2.94 dirhams.  Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  declined 0.3
percent, bringing the slump for the quarter to 7.1 percent.  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  slipped 0.4 percent, Oman’s
MSM 30 Index retreated 0.6 percent and the Kuwait Stock Exchange
Unweighted Index decreased 0.1 percent. Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  was
little changed and Bahrain’s BB All Share Index lost 1.4
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  