-- 
Dudley Proves This Isn’t Your Father’s New York Federal Reserve

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 
2011-09-28T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/dudley-proving-this-is-not-your-father-s-federal-reserve-bank-of-new-york.html
It’s a quiet September morning
outside the headquarters of the  Federal Reserve  Bank of New York
on Liberty Street in downtown Manhattan.  The 22-story  building , made of limestone and sandstone
blocks and decorated with wrought iron, embodies the secrecy
with which the central banking system has operated since its
founding in 1913. The ground floor, with its vaulted ceilings
and iron chandeliers, houses an exhibit on the history of money.
In a 10th-floor conference room, William C. Dudley, president of
the New York Fed, sits in a leather chair and explains how he’s
trying to change the image of the central bank as a closed club
that caters to Wall Street at the expense of everyone else,
Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its November issue.  “It’s important for us to get out into the community to
get our message across to explain why we do what we do,” says
Dudley in a rare interview, breaking with the Fed bank’s
traditional aversion to publicity. “That’s important, because
to a lot of people, it’s pretty mysterious what the Federal
Reserve does.”  Dudley, who was chief U.S. economist at  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  from 1996 to 2005, has spent more time talking to people in
his district than any of his nine predecessors, according to the
New York Fed. At these gatherings of local businesspeople in
places like the borough of Queens, New York, Dudley speaks about
the Fed’s unprecedented moves to revive the economy and often
faces pointed questions from the crowd.  ‘Something Very Unfair’  Why did the Fed spend  billions  in tax dollars to bail out
Wall Street during the credit crisis and not help small
businesses get loans? Why hasn’t the Fed forced banks to modify
mortgages? Isn’t the Fed causing food prices to spike?  Back at headquarters, Dudley says he understands why people
are so angry.  “There is something very unfair about what happened,” he
says. “The fact that bankers and financiers invented all sorts
of crazy products, introduced them in a way that wasn’t well
thought through and that caused a financial calamity, and then
the financial system got rescued while the financial crisis
caused them to lose their jobs -- it’s completely unfair.”  Dudley, 58, is grappling with some of the biggest
challenges that a New York Fed president has ever faced. The New
York Fed board appointed him in January 2009 in the middle of
the worst financial crisis in decades, after  Timothy F. Geithner 
left to become President Barack Obama’s Treasury secretary.  Second to Bernanke  Dudley is developing regulations for some of the world’s
biggest financial firms, such as Goldman Sachs and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , aimed at preventing a repeat of the events that
brought down Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the global
economy.  His position makes Dudley vice chairman of the policy-
setting Federal Open Market Committee, second only to Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke in wielding power over monetary
policy. In that role, Dudley is trying to keep the economy out
of a double-dip recession that could throw an additional
hundreds of thousands of Americans out of work at a time of 9.1
percent unemployment.  “There’s no question this job is a major, major
responsibility and really requires a diverse set of talents,”
says Mark Gertler, a New York University economist who serves on
a New York Fed economic advisory committee. “The president of
the New York Fed carries the added responsibility of having to
monitor financial markets, and that requires an extraordinary
depth of knowledge. It’s perhaps second only to the chairman in
terms of difficulty of the job and maybe on par.”  Pretty Ugly Treatment  Dudley also has had to navigate the steady stream of
attacks on him and his institution from all sides of the
political spectrum. Senator Bernie Sanders, an Independent from
Vermont, accused the New York Fed of being too entangled with
 Wall Street  to do its job properly. Sanders wrote a provision in
the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul act to have the Government
Accountability Office investigate the matter last year.  The Academy Award-winning 2010 documentary “Inside Job”
depicted Dudley as a stooge of Wall Street, partly because of
his Goldman roots. And Republicans are castigating Fed officials
for stoking inflation following their second so-called
quantitative easing program, which bought $600 billion in U.S.
Treasuries to spur economic growth.  Texas Governor and Republican presidential candidate Rick Perry said in August that additional stimulus measures from
Bernanke would be “almost treacherous -- or treasonous.” He
said: “We would treat him pretty ugly down in Texas.”  Visiting Queens  Since October 2010, Dudley’s  mission  to mend relations with
the public and get an on-the-ground view of local conditions has
taken him to 16 cities in his district. It includes  New York 
state, parts of  New Jersey  and Connecticut and all of Puerto
Rico and the  U.S. Virgin Islands .  On a dreary morning in March, he walked to the podium in a
lower-level, windowless conference room at the Sheraton
LaGuardia East Hotel in Queens, dressed in a navy suit, a blue
shirt and a blue-green tie. The meeting with the Queens Chamber
of Commerce made Dudley the first New York Fed chief to make an
official visit to the borough in at least a decade.  After Dudley’s speech, the complaints about the Fed poured
in.  One man accused it of printing money and spurring
inflation, even though the core rate, which excludes food and
commodities, was only 1 percent at the time. “There really is
nothing to be worried about,” Dudley responded. “If we see the
economy starting to overheat, we can raise the  interest rate  we
pay on excess reserves, and those reserves will stay with us
rather than be lent out into the economy.”  Dr. Pepper, Ice Cream  The man in the audience fired back: “When was the last
time, sir, that you went food shopping? I was just in my
supermarket the other day, and I bought paper towels and a
couple food items. I couldn’t believe the price,” he says. “Us
common folk, when we go food shopping, you can see the inflation
that has hit our economy.”  The New York Fed president says he does shop, often to
satisfy his cravings for Diet Dr Pepper and ice cream. Dudley
and other Fed officials haven’t been so forthcoming about the
details of the bailouts. The 2010 Dodd-Frank reforms forced the
Fed to disclose the recipients of many of its emergency loans.
And a lawsuit brought in 2008 by Bloomberg LP, the parent
company of Bloomberg News, and won in March compelled the
release of 29,000 documents and information that went beyond the
Dodd-Frank requirements.  ‘Trust Us’  The Fed had argued in court that records held at the
regional reserve banks are not subject to Freedom of Information
Act requests because they’re privately financed institutions,
not government agencies.  Dudley says he’s not a lawyer and can’t judge the merits of
the Fed’s defense in the case. He adds that the institution
should disclose information when it doesn’t damage its policies.  “In the old regime, it was sort of like: ‘Well, we did
what we did. It speaks for itself, and trust us,’” Dudley says,
referring to the institution he inherited. “We’ve learned
a lot -- that it’s not sufficient for us to just do what we
think is the right thing. We have to be much more forward
leaning in terms of our communicating.”  Dudley, who goes by Bill, is suited to the task of public
outreach. His grand-father was the minister of a church on
Flatbush Avenue in Brooklyn, where Dudley also later lived for
six years.  “He’s a down-home, easygoing, laid-back guy,” says  Leon Cooperman , the former head of research at Goldman Sachs who was
Dudley’s first boss when he joined the firm in 1986 as an
economist. “He has no ego and is collaborative by nature.”  Dovish Dudley  Dudley is one of the most dovish members of the FOMC,
meaning he’s more concerned with encouraging growth than
thwarting inflation, says  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at
Pierpont Securities LLC in Stamford, Connecticut. Stanley says
that Dudley was an enthusiastic supporter of the Fed’s two bond-
purchase programs, which helped swell its balance sheet to
almost $3 trillion, and that he doesn’t put a lot of stress on
inflation when commenting on the economy.  Dudley, who years ago made political contributions to
several Democrats, including Senator  John Kerry  of
Massachusetts, says he rejects the dove label and considers
himself a pragmatist.  Dudley has voted in support of all of Bernanke’s stimulus
measures, including the FOMC’s Aug. 9 decision to maintain its
benchmark interest rate at its record low near zero, at least
through mid-2013. And the FOMC decided on Sept. 21 to replace
some bonds in its portfolio with longer-term securities to
further reduce borrowing costs.  Fed Can Help  Both moves prompted the same three policy makers to
dissent, the most since 1992. Even after its barrage of
unconventional actions, the Fed has failed to bring down an
unemployment rate that’s been stuck near or above 9 percent
since April 2009.  Dudley says the Fed can’t fix the economy alone. Congress
and the Obama administration, which have been almost paralyzed
by ideological battles over taxes and spending, are now debating
the president’s $447 billion jobs bill.  “We have to recognize that it’s not just about the Federal
Reserve,” Dudley says. “It needs to be a collective action of
all elements of government working together. We can help, but I
don’t think it can be all on us.”  Dudley operates within a byzantine institution with
conflicts in its structure that erupted into controversies
during the financial meltdown. In passing the  Federal Reserve 
Act of 1913 to establish a central banking system, Congress
sought to balance influence over the institution between the
government and banks.  Banker Boards  To exert their sway, bankers were given a role in
appointing top executives at the 12 regional reserve banks -- a
conflict that wasn’t addressed until the Dodd-Frank legislation.  The Federal Reserve Act created nine-member  boards  for each
of the reserve banks and assigned three of those seats to
bankers. Banks in each district select six directors, including
the three bankers. JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon ,
 San Juan , Puerto Rico-based Popular Inc. CEO Richard Carrion and
Saratoga Springs, New York-based Adirondack Trust Co. CEO
Charles Wait represent banks for the New York Fed. The Board of
Governors in  Washington , which is appointed by the U.S.
president, picks the other three members.  The six directors who aren’t bankers, including Macy’s Inc.
head Terry Lundgren and Columbia University President Lee Bollinger, represent the borrowing public in areas such as
commerce, industry and services.  ‘Very Bizarre Structure’  Regional directors, who serve three-year terms, choose the
president of their bank, with the approval of the Board of
Governors, as well as senior officials. They also give advice on
local economic conditions.  Kevin Hassett , director of economic policy studies at the
American Enterprise Institute in Washington and a former Fed
economist, says the banker directors have spurred controversy
over their conflicts and that the positions should be
eliminated.  “It’s a very bizarre structure that arose as a political
compromise a long time ago,” Hassett says. “There’s this sort
of shadowy world where our financial regulators are connected
with Wall Street. It’s really important that the New York Fed
not be viewed as a captive of Wall Street.”  In March 2008, Dimon was caught in a conflict when JPMorgan
acquired Bear Stearns Cos., says  Robert Eisenbeis , former head
of research at the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. The day
before Bear Stearns would have had to file for bankruptcy, Dimon
told Geithner, then the New York Fed president, that JPMorgan
would buy the failing brokerage only if mortgage-related assets
were removed, according to a July GAO report.  Dudley’s AIG Stock  Geithner agreed, and the Fed purchased $30 billion of Bear
Stearns’s mortgage assets. A JPMorgan spokesman declined to
comment.  “They had Jamie Dimon on the board of directors, who were
not only picking the president but also were involved with
inside knowledge about what was going on at the Fed,” says
Eisenbeis, who’s now chief monetary economist at Sarasota,
Florida-based Cumberland Advisors Inc. “You’ve got potentially
really sensitive issues where you’re talking about trying to
bail out banks.”  Dudley found himself in a possible conflict in September
2008 over  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  shares he owned. He
joined the New York Fed in 2007 after leaving Goldman to head
the markets group of the Fed. That body executes the central
bank’s monetary policy by trading U.S. bonds. According to the
GAO report, Dudley owned less than $15,000 of AIG stock, which
he wasn’t required to sell under the central bank’s code of
conduct because the insurer wasn’t supervised by the Fed.  Conflict Waivers  After the Fed invoked its emergency-lending powers to
rescue AIG in 2008, Dudley says he brought the fact that he
owned the shares to the central bank’s attention.  “I basically identified that I had the holdings and said,
‘I will do whatever you want me to do,’” says Dudley, who
worked on the $85 billion loan to the insurer.  Geithner directed him to keep the AIG shares until a later,
predetermined date because selling them at that time would also
pose a conflict since he had access to inside information about
the company’s dire state, the GAO said. Dudley has since sold
the shares as directed by the bank.  Former New York Fed board member Stephen Friedman had a
conflict that turned into a scandal. He had spent a career at
Goldman Sachs and was on its board when the firm converted to a
bank holding company in September 2008, putting it under Fed
supervision. That made Friedman ineligible for his post as a
public director at the New York Fed until he sought and received
a waiver to stay on.  Questioning Credibility  He later added to his Goldman stock as the firm benefited
from Fed emergency programs -- spending $4 million to buy shares
in December 2008 and January 2009. After Richard Shelby of
Alabama, the ranking Republican on the Senate Banking Committee,
called Friedman’s dual roles a conflict, the Goldman director
resigned from the New York Fed board in May 2009, saying his
service was being mischaracterized as improper.  Following the credit meltdown, Dudley and other officials
have made several changes to clean up possible conflicts.  “We have to take appearance of conflict really seriously
because it does affect the institution by creating questions
about our credibility,” he says.  Dodd-Frank ended the practice of banker directors having a
vote in electing regional presidents -- a move Dudley says he
supported. After the Friedman affair, the Fed in Washington said
directors who represent public borrowers can no longer have any
association with banks.  No Untoward Behavior  The New York Fed’s board went further, restricting bankers
from playing any role in bank supervision or appointing its
leaders in order to avoid the appearance of a conflict.  Dudley says probes by the GAO and the Financial Crisis
Inquiry Commission, a panel created by Congress, didn’t show
that the Fed was rife with conflicts.  “All our activities have been looked at extraordinarily
carefully,” Dudley says. “If you really look at all the body
of evidence, there’s really no signs of any meaningful untoward
behavior. At worst, there have been a couple of instances where
there’s been an appearance of conflict, as opposed to an actual
conflict.”  The GAO said the New York Fed still needs to bolster its
conflict rules to reflect its expanded responsibility under
Dodd-Frank. The act gave the central bank even more power,
granting it authority over nonbank firms such as insurers.  ‘Bit of Rebellion’  Dudley says the New York Fed is working to update its code
of conduct, including prohibiting its employees from having
investments in the kinds of companies the Fed gained control
over.  A native of Springfield, Massachusetts, and a Boston Red
Sox fan, Dudley took a path to Wall Street that wasn’t
completely conventional. After getting his diploma from
 Williston Northampton School  in Easthampton, Massachusetts, and
spending his freshman year at Columbia University in New York,
he transferred to  New College of Florida  in Sarasota, where he
sought a more avant-garde education: Students there design their
own educational experience.  “I wanted just a little bit of rebellion, to break off the
track I was on,” says Dudley, whose father, a lawyer, died of
polio when Bill was 2 years old. “I was on the ‘I went to prep
school, went to an Ivy school, got married, had 2.3 children.’”  B in Macroeconomics  At New College, he ended up majoring in economics after
realizing that a literature concentration required studying
British poetry, which wasn’t his passion. Dudley was more
attracted to the blend of math and analytical content that
economics provided. He went on to get his doctorate in economics
from the  University of California, Berkeley , in 1982.  Dudley says that the one B he received was, ironically, in
macroeconomics. And he adds with a smile that the grade was
given to him by George Akerlof, Fed Vice Chairman Janet Yellen’s
husband and a Nobel laureate in economics.  Dudley worked as a regulatory economist at JPMorgan and as
an economist at the Fed in Washington before joining Goldman in
1986. Cooperman says Dudley distinguished himself when he got
involved with the firm’s trading desk. In October 1998, Dudley
said that Brazil’s currency, the real, was 15 percent overvalued
and that there was a nearly even chance Brazil would be forced
to devalue it. Three months later, the country gave up a 4 1/2-
year defense of its currency, allowing it to fall by about a
third in the following two months.  Earning Respect  Dudley said in a 2010 commencement address at New College
that he thought he won Cooperman’s respect early in his career
by telling him there was a mistake in a report they had co-
written on tax reform that changed all the numbers. It was right
before the report was to be distributed, and they had to throw
out the 10,000 copies that had just been printed.  Cooperman, CEO of hedge fund Omega Advisors Inc., says
Dudley’s performance brought him to the attention of  Robert Rubin , who was co-chairman of Goldman Sachs in the early 1990s
before becoming Treasury secretary under Democratic President
Bill Clinton. Rubin took a shine to Dudley, who at age 43 was
promoted to chief U.S. economist.  “Bill struck me as very bright and very thoughtful and
also -- and this is not always the case, with academic
economists at least -- very practical,” Rubin says. “He was
able to meld academic understanding with the practicalities of
markets and how business and economies actually work.”  Bogey Golfer  Rubin says he called Dudley from time to time when he was
Treasury secretary for his views on the economy. “The other
thing about Bill is, if you’re Treasury Secretary, you don’t
want to speak to people who are going to speak to others,”
Rubin says. “He is very discreet and very honorable.”  When Dudley resigned from his post at Goldman in 2005, he
joked with clients that he was leaving to lower his golf
handicap. “Didn’t happen,” says Dudley, a bogey golfer. In
2007, he jumped at an offer from Geithner to lead the New York
Fed’s markets group.  Dudley’s move has contributed to Goldman’s nickname,
Government Sachs. So many of the firm’s employees have gone on
to public posts that it has created the impression that Goldman
and the government are in bed together. The links between the
two are so great that Geithner had to clarify on multiple
occasions to Congress and the media that he has never worked for
a bank, including Goldman.  6 a.m. Pickups  “At the end of the day, policy is my life,” Dudley says.
“To me, it was a tremendous opportunity to come here and do
policy without any moral ambiguity.”  Dudley, who lives with his wife, Ann E. Darby, a retired
JPMorgan banker, in Cranford, New Jersey, gets picked up for
work by a bank-supplied car at 6 a.m. most mornings. He’s
putting in  long hours  as officials move to tighten
regulations -- over the objections of bankers -- to prevent
another financial calamity.  “We clearly want to make it so that this never happens
again,” he says.  Dudley is also a U.S. representative on the Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision, a group of regulators and central
bankers from 27 nations that released nonbinding rules in
December requiring banks to bolster capital and reduce
borrowing. The Basel Committee agreed that only common shares
would constitute top-quality capital and that global firms
should hold capital worth 7 percent of their risk-weighted
assets. Banks deemed “too big to fail” must hold additional
capital on top of the 7 percent, ranging from 1 percentage point
to 2.5 points more.  Dimon Complaints  Dudley and his Fed colleagues are now writing their own
rules to reconcile the Basel mandates with Dodd-Frank reforms.
They’re addressing issues such as how much liquidity banks must
have and how they manage risk.  Dudley is staring down his own director, JPMorgan’s Dimon,
over the rules. The CEO says higher capital requirements,
mortgage standards and other rules are leading to tightened
lending standards.  “I have a great fear someone’s going to try to write a
book in 20 years, and the book is going to talk about all the
things that we did in the middle of the crisis to actually slow
down recovery,” Dimon told Bernanke at a conference of bankers
in Atlanta on June 7.  The New York Fed president says bankers don’t make a strong
case for looser standards.  Cutting Compensation  “The basic argument that higher capital requirements are
going to lead to a dramatic drying up of lending that’s going to
hurt the economy over the medium to longer run -- I just think
that’s vastly exaggerated,” Dudley says. “They act like the
only lever that they can adjust is the lending lever, but when
in fact profitability can come down a little bit, compensation
can fall.”  Simon Johnson, former chief economist at the  International
Monetary Fund  who’s now a professor at Massachusetts Institute
of Technology, says Fed officials should be forcing banks to
hold even more capital against losses than the Basel guidelines
suggest.  “They have erred on the side of agreeing too much with the
banks,” Johnson says. “The New York Fed is very close to the
Wall Street banks, and in many instances, its thinking is
excessively and unfortunately swayed by the models and arguments
of the banks.”  Dudley says regulators also need to do a better job of
sharing information across borders and coming up with plans to
unwind institutions.  ‘Let Them Fail’  “Hopefully, by doing this, one, probability of failure
becomes less, and two, if failure occurs, we can actually let
them fail,” he says.  The onslaught of attacks on the Fed shows no sign of
slowing. In September, Representative Barney Frank, the
Massachusetts Democrat who co-wrote the financial-reform
legislation, renewed his push to remove regional Fed presidents
from voting on the FOMC and to replace them with presidential
appointees.  Dudley says he escapes the pressures of his job by reading
fiction. “Matterhorn: A Novel of the Vietnam War,” by Karl
Marlantes, is fantastic, he says. The author received two Purple
Hearts as a Marine during the war and struggled to write and
publish his book for three decades.  Dudley says he will also persevere through the thicket of
protests from all quarters to stave off another financial
disaster, because it’s really what he wants to do.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  