-- 
LME Says ‘Expressions of Interest’ Exceed 10 as Trading Expands to Record

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-09-29T13:31:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/lme-says-expressions-of-interest-exceed-10-as-trading-expands-to-record.html
The  London  Metal Exchange, the 134
year-old bourse handling 80 percent of global trade in metals
futures, said it got more than 10 “expressions of interest”
and may recommend a bid to shareholders as early as March.  The board meets tomorrow and directors will be updated on
the potential buyers, Chief Executive Officer  Martin Abbott  said
in an interview in London yesterday. The number of parties will
probably increase and they will be given the first quarter to
make a “credible bid,” he said. Shareholders may vote on an
offer as soon as April, with 75 percent support needed for a bid
to succeed, he said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , UBS AG, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Sucden Financial Ltd. are among the biggest shareholders in the
exchange. It operates London’s last open-outcry transactions
through a 6-meter-wide (20-foot) ring in which traders shout out
orders. Metals prices more than tripled in the past decade as
demand from emerging markets overwhelmed supplies from mines,
attracting a surge of interest from investors.  “We are utterly dominant in our space,” Abbott, 51, said
from the bourse’s headquarters in Leadenhall Street, about a 10-
minute walk from the  Bank of England . “We’ve opened up and
we’ve said there’s a process in place. That’s effectively an
invitation for serious players to come and get involved.”  Share Classes  The exchange is owned by LME Holdings Ltd., which issues
two share classes. There are 12.9 million ordinary shares, which
confer ownership and traded at 4.925 pounds ($7.67) in July,
according to data on the bourse’s website. There are also 1.34
million B shares, which exchanged hands at 85.425 pounds on
Sept. 27. They had previously traded in July at 70 pounds.
Neither shares trade on an exchange.  “Any valuation extrapolated from current data is wrong,”
Abbott said. “Nobody currently values those shares on the basis
that they reflect the underlying value of the business.”  The exchange as it stands today is worth 320.6 million
pounds, according to estimates of Equity Research Desk in
Greenwich,  Connecticut , which advises  hedge funds . That does not
include any assumptions about the clearing business.  Metdist Ltd., a U.K. metals trading company, owns 912,000
ordinary shares, New York-based Goldman 900,000, and MF Global
(U.K.) Ltd. 600,000, according to a filing made as of September
2010. UBS Ltd. is registered as holding 550,000 shares and
Sucden 362,000. J.P. Morgan Metals Ltd. and J.P. Morgan
Securities Ltd. have a combined 550,000 ordinary shares, while
Metdist Trading Ltd. owns 300,000 shares.  No Dividend  Owners of B  shares  get no dividend and have no right to the
profits or assets of the company, according to the articles of
association. In the event of a distribution of assets, they are
entitled to get the nominal value of the capital paid up on each
share. They can’t attend company meetings unless changes to
their rights are being considered. It is mandatory for four out
of seven categories of membership to own the B shares.  The LME said in May it was considering creating its own
clearing system. The bourse currently uses LCH.Clearnet Group
Ltd., in which it owns 3.27 million shares. LME members may pay
10 million euros ($13.6 million) to 11 million euros in fees to
LCH.Clearnet this year, Abbott said. The bourse handled a record
$11.6 trillion of contracts in copper and other industrial
metals last year, up from $2.5 trillion in 1999.  Clearing System  “Anyone who is preparing a bid for us is going to have to
convince us that they have taken into account the likely value
of us having a clearing system,” he said. Such a system would
take about two years to set up, he said. Potential bidders will
be given access to detailed  financial information  about the
exchange in December, he said.  “As an exchange community, the LME members are lodging
billions and billions of dollars of cash with the clearing
house,” Abbott said. “It’s the return on investment on that
cash that is the potentially major source of revenue.”  ICAP Plc Chief Executive Officer and founder  Michael
Spencer  said in a conference call for journalists today that he
would “look” at the exchange. London-based ICAP is the world’s
largest broker of transactions between banks. ICAP Securities
Ltd. is an associate broker clearing member of the LME,
according to the LME website.  Bidders may include CME Group Inc., the world’s largest
futures market,  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  and Singapore
Exchange Ltd.,  Niamh Alexander , an analyst at KBW Inc. in  New
York , wrote in a report Sept. 23. Officials from all three
exchanges declined to comment. The LME is being advised by U.S.
investment bank Moelis & Co.  Board Meeting  The LME directors are gathering tomorrow for the annual
pre-LME Week board meeting, Abbott said. “I don’t think there
is going to be any material development on Friday so I wouldn’t
hold my breath,” he said. LME Week is the annual gathering in
London of the global metals industry.  The LME index of six base metals traded on the exchange has
tumbled 21 percent this year on concern that  Europe ’s sovereign-
debt crisis may hurt global growth, reducing demand. Copper fell
1 percent at 2:29 p.m. in London.  Electronic trading accounted for 52 percent of LME volumes
in September 2010, telephone-brokered transactions 27 percent
and the remainder went through the ring. Prices used as a
benchmark by metals producers, consumers and merchants are
established during the second daily ring session.  Trading floors were already shut by the International
Petroleum Exchange and the London International Financial
Futures & Options Exchange. ICE Futures U.S. ended floor trading
of commodities including cotton in 2008 after 128 years. “It’s
too early to say whether or not we will set preconditions,”
Abbott said.  “Our volumes are up almost 19 percent year on year,”
Abbott said. “I could see why someone would decide this would
be a good time to make an approach.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at  ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  