-- 
Health-Care Law Has Precedent, Retired Justice Stevens Says

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-09-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/health-care-law-has-precedent-retired-justice-stevens-says.html
Retired Justice  John Paul Stevens 
said a 2005 U.S. Supreme Court ruling involving medical
marijuana provides legal support for President Barack Obama’s
health-care law.  Stevens, now 91 and more than a year into retirement, said
in an interview in  Washington  this week that he is skeptical
about contentions that Congress lacked authority to pass the
health-care measure, which requires Americans to either buy
insurance or pay a penalty.  Stevens wrote the court’s opinion in the 2005 case, a 6-3
ruling that let the federal government ban marijuana even when
the drug doesn’t cross state lines and is used only for
medicinal purposes. As with health care, that case centered on
Congress’s power to regulate interstate commerce.  “To the extent that the commerce clause is an issue in the
case, it just seems to me very similar” to the medical
marijuana dispute, said Stevens, who served on the court for 34
years. Stevens is holding interviews with reporters to promote
his book,  “Five Chiefs,”  which describes his impressions of
the last five chief justices and is scheduled to be released
next week.  Stevens wore his trademark bow tie as he sat in his office
at the court, which provides spaces for retired justices. The
Chicago native’s chambers are adorned with sports memorabilia,
including an autographed photo of basketball great  Michael Jordan . Also on display is a scorecard from a 1932 World Series
game Stevens attended, when  Babe Ruth  pointed toward the
outfield seats before hitting a home run.  Stepping Down  Stevens said he made the right decision to step down from
the court even though he could have continued to function
effectively. He said he began thinking about retirement after he
had trouble reading a summary of his dissenting opinion in a
campaign finance case last year. Stevens splits his time between
Washington and  Florida  and said he plays tennis regularly
despite a bad knee.  Even in retirement, Stevens said he hasn’t stopped reading
opinions and thinking about legal cases. He said he wasn’t
troubled by the way courts handled the case of Troy Davis, whose
Sept. 21 execution in  Georgia  was the subject of worldwide
demonstrations and questions about his guilt.  Stevens was among the justices who  ordered  a federal trial
judge to reconsider whether Davis was the triggerman in the 1989
shooting death of a Savannah police officer. The judge reviewed
the evidence, including recantations by witnesses who testified
against Davis at trial, and concluded in a 172-page opinion that
he was guilty.  “It’s my understanding that the trial judge went back and
did a very thorough hearing and came up with findings that
really had to be respected by an appellate court,” said
Stevens, adding that he hadn’t read the opinion.  Replaced by Kagan  Stevens wrote in a 2008 opinion that he believed the death
penalty to be unconstitutional, even while saying he would
respect Supreme Court precedents that allowed capital
punishment.  Stevens, whom Obama replaced with Justice Elena Kagan, said
Senate confirmation hearings for Supreme Court nominees have
become too much of a political event. His own 1975 confirmation
hearing was the last not to be televised.  Stevens wrote in his book that he received no help from
then- President  Gerald Ford ’s staff in preparing for the
hearing. Stevens and his former law partner even had to hail
their own taxi after leaving the session, he wrote.  “I would love to go back to the days when the nominee
doesn’t need any coaching from the  Department of Justice  and the
White House, and he just comes in and the senators ask him what
they want to know and they get to the meat of things,” Stevens
said in the interview. “I think it’s become much more of an
exhibit or a spectacle.”  Health Care  The Obama administration this week signaled it will file a
Supreme Court appeal on health care, saying it will forgo
further appeals-court review in a lawsuit pressed by 26 states
opposing the law. Stevens said he hadn’t read any briefs in the
case.  The 2005 marijuana ruling will be a pivotal precedent when
the justices consider the health-care law. In his opinion for
the court then, Stevens pointed to a constitutional provision
letting Congress enact laws “necessary and proper” for
carrying out powers specifically mentioned in the Constitution.  The majority included Justices Antonin Scalia and  Anthony Kennedy , both of whom had voted to restrict Congress’s commerce-
clause power in earlier cases. Scalia didn’t adopt Stevens’s
reasoning, instead providing his own analysis in a concurring
opinion.  Stevens suggested Scalia might be willing to uphold the
health-care law even if he disagrees with its substance.  “I would expect that the merits wouldn’t have the
slightest impact on his analysis of the constitutional issue,”
Stevens said. “I’m sure he’ll approach it as a judge should
approach it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 