-- 
Egypt’s EGX 30 Drops Most Since August Ahead of Planned Protest

-- B y   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 
2011-09-28T14:08:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/egypt-s-egx-30-drops-most-since-august-ahead-of-planned-protest.html
Egypt’s benchmark stock index fell
the most in more than a month ahead of planned protests against
the country’s emergency law on Sept. 30.  The  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  lost 3.6 percent, the biggest drop since
Aug. 9, to 4,094.64 at the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo. Twenty-nine
stocks declined and one was unchanged. The index has tumbled 43
percent this year, making it the third-worst performer after the
Cypriot and Athens benchmark indexes out of 93 measures tracked
by Bloomberg.  The demonstrations are planned to take place in Cairo’s
Tahrir Square and other cities. Protesters will also demand from
the ruling military council a time frame for parliamentary and
presidential elections, April 6 Youth Movement, one of the
groups that led anti-government protests which toppled President
 Hosni Mubarak  in February, said on Sept. 26.  “There’s a lack of confidence because of negative news
daily in major newspapers, whether it is political, economic or
social, in addition to major security problems on the street,”
said Mohamed Radwan, head of international sales at Pharos
Holding for Financial Investment. “Lack of trust is rising
between military council and political parties and activists.”  Heliopolis Housing (HELI)  fell to its lowest in more than two
years, losing 4 percent to 13.04 Egyptian pounds. The Cairo-
based real-estate developer plans to auction plots of land next
week as it seeks to boost liquidity,  Al Mal  reported.
 Palm Hills Developments SAE (PHDC)  retreated to the lowest on record,
sinking 5.9 percent to 1.27 Egyptian pounds. The board of the
Egyptian luxury real-estate developer approved returning to the
government a 190-feddan (197-acre) plot of land.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story: Mahmoud
Kassem at   mkassem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  