-- 
HeidelbergCement Said to Raise $400 Million in High-Yield Bonds

-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 
2011-09-28T14:27:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/heidelbergcement-said-to-raise-400-million-in-high-yield-bonds.html
HeidelbergCement AG (HEI)  raised 300
million euros ($408 million), according to a person with
knowledge of the deal, in the second sale of junk-rated bonds in
Europe this month.  The world’s third-largest maker of cement and concrete
priced the notes due December 2018 to yield 9.625 percent,
according to the person familiar, who declined to be identified
before the transaction is completed. That compares with an
average of about 9.5 percent on similarly rated securities in
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro High Yield, BB Rated index.  Sales of high-yield bonds have dried up as investors,
concerned that  Greece  may roil markets by defaulting, shun all
but the safest securities. Money managers are holding cash to
meet the demands for redemptions they anticipate should there be
a sovereign default while potential issuers shy away from the
yields they will be asked to pay.  “You have to be good to get a deal away at present,” said
Paul Owens, who helps manage the equivalent of about $8.2
billion as co-head of research at Avoca Capital Holdings Ltd. in
 London . “HeidelbergCement has been deleveraging the balance
sheet and shown it can get good results in a bad market.”  The Heidelberg, Germany-based company is graded Ba1 at
Moody’s Investors Service, the top speculative-grade rating, and
a step lower at BB at  Standard & Poor’s . Fresenius Medical Care
AG, which has the same grades from the ratings firms, on Sept. 8
said it priced bonds in dollars and euros to yield 6.75 percent.  HeidelbergCement has 1.09 billion euros of bonds coming due
in January, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  BNP Paribas SA, Banca IMI SpA, Citigroup Inc., Deutsche
Bank AG, ING Groep NV, LBBW, Mediobanca SpA and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc are managing the deal.  PSA Peugeot Citroen,  Europe ’s second-biggest carmaker,
raised 500 million euros in a sale of 6.875 percent bonds
yesterday. The company is rated an investment-grade Baa3 at
Moody’s and step lower at BB+, the top junk level, at S&P. The
bond due 2016 was rated Baa3 by Moody’s yesterday and hasn’t
been graded by S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  