-- 
Emerging Stocks Retreat on Concern Over Europe’s Debt Crisis

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-09-28T21:36:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/emerging-market-stocks-extend-advances-after-biggest-rally-in-two-years.html
Emerging-market stocks fell,
following the benchmark index’s biggest gain in more than two
years yesterday, as concern grew that European leaders are
divided over how to handle  Greece ’s debt crisis.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index declined 0.3 percent to
891.05 at 4:30 p.m. in New York, erasing earlier gains. Brazil’s
Bovespa Index fell 1.2 percent while Argentina’s Merval Index
dropped 1.6 percent. The benchmark in Russia slipped 0.2 percent
and that for  South Africa  slid 1.3 percent. Benchmark stock
indexes in  China ,  India  and Korea also retreated.  The European Commission is resisting a push to impose
bigger writedowns on banks’ holdings of Greek debt than those
agreed on at a July 21 summit, a European official said on
condition of anonymity because the deliberations are private.
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  said today she’s waiting for a report
on Greece’s budget progress from European inspectors before
deciding if revisions are needed to the July agreement.  “There’s still a lot of focus on what’s going on with
 Europe . A lot of conflicting news stories,” said Greg Lesko,
who helps oversee $800 million at Deltec Asset Management in  New
York . “The market’s going to be volatile until we know exactly
what and when they are going to do something.”  Experts from the European Commission,  European Central Bank 
and  International Monetary Fund  will return to Athens tomorrow
to review progress toward receiving further financial aid.
Merkel is seeking to muster support ahead of a vote in the
German parliament tomorrow on whether to change the European
Financial Stability Facility.  Earlier Gains  The MSCI gauge rose earlier after a U.S. Department report
showed orders for U.S. capital goods climbed 1.1 percent in
August, the most in three months. The growth exceeded the 0.4
percent median estimate by economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “There’s been more talk about a U.S. recession than actual
data to support it -- slow growth in the U.S. is still
happening,” Lesko said.  U.S. President Barack Obama said today Europe’s debt crisis
continues to be a drag on the  U.S. economy  and the response of
governments there hasn’t been as robust as needed.  Tam SA (TAMM4) , Brazil’s biggest airline by passengers carried,
sank 5.2 percent, the most among companies in the Bovespa index,
after Chile’s Lan Airlines SA said the Chilean antitrust court
overestimated the income generated by fees charged by the
airline when it evaluated the planned takeover of Tam.  Cemex SAB, the larget cement maker in Americas, dropped 5.4
percent in Mexico City amid investors’ concern about its ability
to repay $17.8 billion in debt.  Currencies, Yield Gap  The Brazilian real weakened 1.9 percent versus the dollar,
the worst performance among 25 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. Mexico’s peso depreciated 1.4 percent to
13.5563 per dollar. The Polish zloty and Hungarian forint both
fell 1.5 percent against the greenback.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries climbed two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 447, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
EMBI Global Index.  Italian and Spanish financial market regulators extended
temporary bans on short selling of financial shares that were
introduced last month in a bid to stem market volatility,
according to an e-mailed statement by the European Securities
and Markets Authority. Spain’s ban will remain “until the
market conditions allow it” to be lifted while Italy’s limit,
and another enacted by  France  in August, will both last until
Nov. 11.  The index of Turkish banks surged 2.1 percent as investors
bet policy makers will begin reversing measures that restrained
lending and limited profits. Financial companies have a 54
percent weighting in the  ISE National 100 Index. (XU100)   Gazprom, Rosneft  OAO Gazprom,  Russia ’s gas export monopoly, retreated 1.2
percent, and OAO Rosneft, the nation’s biggest oil producer,
declined 1.8 percent as crude futures fell.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
 Middle East  and Africa credit-default swaps added 8 basis points
to 340.  The BSE India Sensitive Index decreased 0.5 percent and
China’s Shanghai Composite Index dropped 1 percent to its lowest
level since July 2010 on concern government measures to tame
inflation and a faltering global economy will hurt corporate
earnings.  -With assistance from Ian C. Sayson in  Manila . Editors: Linda
Shen, Ana Monteiro, Marie-France Han  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net 
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  