-- 
Emerging Market Hedging Prices Jump on Europe Infection: Options

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-09-29T20:45:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/emerging-market-hedging-prices-jump-on-europe-infection-options.html
The price of options to protect
against losses on equities from  China  to India and  Brazil  has
surged to its highest since 2009 relative to U.S. contracts.  The spread between implied volatility for three-month
options on the iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index and the  SPDR
S&P 500 ETF Trust (SPY)  has doubled to 13.19 this month. It reached
14.92 on Sept. 26, the highest level since June 2009, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Investors are trying to lock in gains after the emerging
markets gauge rallied 84 percent since March 9, 2009, beating
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index by 13 percentage points. They’re
hedging even after Mohamed El-Erian of Pacific Investment
Management Co., which runs the world’s biggest bond fund, said
on Sept. 24 that emerging economies will “maintain faster
growth” as the global economy slows.  “The fear of a second Lehman is clearly affecting all
markets,” Schroders Plc’s Nicholas Field said in a Sept. 23
telephone interview, referring to the U.S. investment bank whose
2008 collapse sent global stocks plunging. He invests in
emerging markets for London-based Schroders, which oversees $255
billion. “The more the fear persists and there is no resolution
to the underlying issues in  Europe , then the more selling of any
risk assets will occur.”  Volatility gauges jumped globally last week as concern grew
that global stocks may extend losses if Europe can’t contain its
debt crisis. International Monetary Fund Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  said Sept. 23 that emerging markets aren’t
immune to the challenges faced by major economies.  Rising Volatility  The VIX, as the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index is known, surged 33 percent last week, and declined 5.5
percent to 38.84 today, compared with a 21-year average of
20.45. The  VStoxx Index (V2X) , which measures the price of options to
protect against Euro Stoxx 50 Index losses, jumped 13 percent
last week and fell 4.2 percent to 44.44 today. The HSI
Volatility Index, based on  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index, climbed
29 percent last week and rose 2.3 percent today.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index plunged 12 percent last
week, the biggest drop since November 2008, and on Sept. 26
touched its lowest level in two years. Emerging markets stocks
underperformed advanced-nation shares during times of financial
stress that sparked global losses during the past two decades
including  Latin America ’s “Tequila Crisis” in 1994 after
 Mexico ’s peso devaluation and  Russia ’s default on $40 billion of
debt in 1998.  Steeper Slumps  The peak-to-trough drop in the emerging-market index was 12
percentage points bigger on average during the six retreats,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. During the 2008 crisis,
when the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. spurred the
worst contraction since the Great Depression, the emerging-
markets ETF fell as much as 67 percent from its record, while
the  S&P 500  fund dropped up to 61 percent.  Implied volatility, the key gauge of options prices, for
the emerging-markets ETF contracts expiring in three months
jumped to 48.72 Sept. 23, the highest since March 2009. The S&P
500 fund’s implied volatility climbed to 34.29 the same day, the
highest since April 2009.  “What’s taking the lead are fears about the macro-economic
scenario, including risks of a global slowdown,” Patrick Legland, the Paris-based head of research at Societe Generale
SA, said in a Sept. 23 telephone interview. “People are trying
to protect themselves as much as possible, so they’re
implementing hedging strategies.”  ‘Catastrophic Risk’  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  warned at an
annual meeting of the IMF in  Washington  on Sept. 24 that failure
to combat the Greek-led turmoil threatened “cascading default,
bank runs and catastrophic risk.” Growth in the world economy
will be slow and downside risks are “piling up,” Lagarde said
at the same meeting on Sept. 23.  Pimco’s El-Erian said last week in an interview from
Washington that the worldwide expansion will be about 2.5
percent, less than the 4 percent IMF forecast for this year and
next. The IMF on Sept. 20 lowered its projection from 4.3
percent for this year and 4.5 percent in 2012.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rallied 4.9 percent, the
most since May 2009, on Sept. 27 after  Greece  made progress in
meeting requirements for more international aid, and  Germany 
vowed continued support for the country. The MSCI World Index of
shares in developed nations posted a smaller advance, rising 2.8
percent.  Faster Growth  The IMF predicts growth of 6.4 percent in developing
economies this year and 6.1 percent next year, down from 6.6
percent and 6.4 percent forecast in June. Richer nations will
grow 1.6 percent this year instead of the 2.2 percent expected
in June, and 1.9 percent next year instead of 2.6 percent, the
IMF said.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday
that the U.S. should learn from the success of many emerging
market economies and support strong economic growth through
responsible fiscal policy.  “In the long run, you’ll get more growth in emerging
markets than anywhere else,” Angus Tulloch, who helps oversee
more than $40 billion as joint managing partner of the Asia-
Pacific-GEM equities at First State Investments in Edinburgh,
said in a Sept. 23 telephone interview.  Implied volatility for the  iShares MSCI South Korea Index
Fund (EWY)  rose to the highest level since March 2009 yesterday versus
the ETF tracking the S&P 500. The spread between the  iShares
MSCI Brazil Index Fund (EWZ)  and the U.S. ETF rose to the highest
since May 2010 last week.  “‘Risk-off’ has never been good news for emerging
markets,”  Edward Chan , who oversees about $1 billion at Royal
 London  Asset Management in London, said in a Sept. 23 telephone
interview. “The biggest worry about Europe is, eventually, will
there be a default? What are the implications on the European
banks and indeed the global financial system? You can paint a
scenario much worse than what we saw from Lehman. Lehman times
two, times three.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  