-- 
Emirates Adds U.S. Routes to Revive Challenge Halted by 9/11

-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-09-28T16:37:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/emirates-ceo-clark-ratchets-up-u-s-challenge-with-seattle-dallas-flights.html
Emirates, the biggest international
airline, will add flights to  Seattle  and Dallas in a revival of
plans to establish a major route network to the world’s largest
economy that it shelved after the 2001 terror attacks.  Emirates will begin daily services from Dubai to Dallas
starting Feb. 2 and to Seattle from March 1 and may add U.S.
cities including Atlanta,  Boston ,  Chicago ,  Detroit , Philadelphia
and  Washington , President Tim Clark said today in an interview.  Passenger numbers at Emirates have surged fivefold in a
decade, making it the world No. 1 by international traffic. Hubs
in Paris, Frankfurt and London are already under pressure as the
carrier diverts long-haul passengers through Dubai, and Clark
said the U.S. market could be targeted using Airbus SAS’s A380
superjumbo, of which it has 90 on order offering 45,000 seats.  “We’ve always had fairly ambitious plans for the U.S. and
this is part of that,” Clark said by phone from Dubai. “It’s an
immense market. There will be more to come, including increased
frequencies and bigger planes. We have ideas for the East Coast,
the north-south axis in the center and for the west.”  Emirates will also open its own first- and business-class
lounge in  San Francisco  in November, having previously shared a
United Airlines facility, and is looking at code-shares which
would allow it to sell tickets beyond U.S. gateways, Clark said.  U.S. ‘Noise’  Emirates currently serves  New York , Houston, Los Angeles
and San Francisco, so that the two new routes and those under
consideration would triple the number of U.S. destinations. The
carrier had originally planned to operate 20 Airbus A340s to the
U.S. about 10 years ago, but dropped the strategy following the
Sept. 11 attacks on New York and Washington, Clark said.  “We’ll hear an increasing amount of noise from the U.S.
carriers,” said  Chris Tarry , an independent aviation analyst
who has followed the industry for almost three decades. “There
are always a lot of comments when Emirates goes into new markets
and I don’t expect the U.S. to be any different.”  American customers flying from Seattle and  Dallas  will be
able to connect with flights to destinations across the  Middle
East ,  Asia ,  India  and  Africa  via Dubai, Emirates said in a
statement. Services will initially be operated using  Boeing Co.
777s , of which Emirates has the biggest fleet, though there’s
potential to shift those and other U.S. routes to A380 operation
as deliveries of the double-decker accelerate, Clark said.  A380-Capable  While the airline has taken delivery of only six planes in
the past nine months, it has 52 due in the next 18 months or so
and is accelerating network expansion accordingly, the executive
said. Including Dallas and Seattle, nine new routes are being
added between Nov. 1 and March 1.  “The A380 will be an option for all U.S. operations post-
2013, when the plane will have a higher takeoff weight, so that
routes such as Dubai- Los Angeles  become a distinct
possibility,” he said. “And most U.S. airports are A380-
capable or will be.”  While travelers from the U.S. West Coast are likely to
prefer more direct trans-Pacific flights to East Asia, hubbing
from there via Dubai will be competitive to destinations
including India, Sri Lanka,  Iran , Pakistan and Bangladesh, as
well as to the wider Middle East and East Africa, Clark said.  The Emirates model of operating three waves of departures
from Dubai also cuts the gap between flights, so the “elapsed
time” may be shorter than the distance suggests, he said.  “As the emerging-market economies around Dubai expand,
particularly India, they could really pick up business,” said
 Nick Cunningham  at research company Agency Partners in  London .  New Orders  The overlap with routes served by U.S. carriers may not be
so great, Clark said, though the expansion may hurt their allies
in global airline alliances. Emirates is looking at partners for
code-sharing beyond its U.S. destinations after Continental
Airlines scrapped a pact when joining the Star group in 2009.  Emirates is comfortable adding routes even as economies
slow, Clark said, predicting that “demand for  air travel  will
continue to grow over the long term in spite of the many
challenges the industry faces,” and adding that it may announce
further aircraft orders at the Dubai Air Show in November.  Chairman Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed al-Maktoum was “reflecting
a wish that we’d like to do more” when he said yesterday in
Dubai that Emirates could add to its backlog, Clark said.  Filling Gaps  The airline needs more planes to accelerate the retirement
of older jets amid high fuel prices, and also to offer services
to less busy destinations, making use of gaps between the waves
of high activity, the executive said.  Models being examined include Airbus’s new A350 and
extended-range versions of the 777, Clark said, adding that
Emirates is also seeking an update from the U.S. company on its
plans for a “next-generation” update of the same model.  While more A380 superjumbos would likewise be welcome,
Clark said, the  size of the fleet  is effectively restricted by
handling limitations at Dubai International Airport.  Emirates is in discussion with Airbus over the implications
of likely delays to the A350-1000 variant as the plane is given
extra thrust, the executive said, adding that he’d have liked
the jet to have gone ahead according to original plans.  He added that there’s no reason to expect first examples of
the baseline A350-900 to meet weight and specifications, given
problems with other recent jetliner models.  Sufficient Slots  Clark said Emirates’s already-strong position in Britain
means it has no interest in bidding for BMI, which  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG (LHA)  may sell, or Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd., for
which  Richard Branson  has said he’s seeking a new investor.  Emirates operates five daily services to London Heathrow,
the main hub for BMI and Virgin, and could easily add capacity
by switching to an all-A380 service -- from two of the flights
at present -- without a need for more operating slots, he said.  One extra Heathrow frequency is being contemplated, Clark
said, but any more than that would upset the Emirates model of
funneling passengers from the U.K. provinces via Dubai on direct
flights from Birmingham, Glasgow, Manchester and Newcastle and
away from an airport that’s the main hub for British Airways.  Clark said he expects BA parent International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA to step up its interest in any Heathrow slots
that are available after Chief Executive Officer Willie Walsh 
snapped up six pairs for an undisclosed sum from BMI last week.  “If I was Mr. Walsh I would grab the lot,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  