-- 
Encana Expands Compressed-Gas Network in Push to Boost Fuel Use

-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 
2011-09-28T16:34:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/encana-expands-compressed-gas-network-in-push-to-boost-fuel-use.html
Encana Corp. (ECA)  opened a compressed-
natural-gas station near Calgary for its fleet of heavy trucks,
as  Canada ’s biggest gas producer tries to increase the use of
the fuel for transportation.  The station, about 40 kilometers (25 miles) east of
Calgary, will eventually be open to the public, the company said
in a statement today. Encana has converted almost a tenth of its
fleet of 1,400 commercial vehicles to using natural gas instead
of gasoline or diesel fuel.  “This is intended to try to offer encouragement in a
broader way for the concept of natural gas-powered vehicles,”
said Mark Gilman, an analyst at Benchmark Co. LLC in  New York 
who has a “hold” rating on Encana’s shares and doesn’t own
them. “Ultimately these are policy issues and natural gas as a
transportation fuel is not receiving a lot of support from
government.”  Proponents of natural gas as a transportation fuel,
including oil billionaire  T. Boone Pickens , say it’s a cheaper
and cleaner fuel that will reduce U.S. dependence on foreign
oil. Burning natural gas emits about 25 percent less carbon
dioxide emissions compared with gasoline, according to the  U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency .  The amount of recoverable natural-gas reserves in  North
America  has swelled as a result of new techniques to capture
hydrocarbons trapped in underground shale. Gas prices have
dropped 72 percent from a record of $13.577 per million British
thermal units in 2008.  Encana, based in Calgary, has compressed-natural-gas
stations in Colorado,  Louisiana  and British Columbia. Canada has
about 80 stations supplying the fuel to the public, the company
said. There are about 1,100 stations in the U.S., according to
CNG Now!, an industry-funded advocacy group.  Encana fell 38 cents, or 1.8 percent, to C$20.68 at 12:11
p.m. in Toronto Stock Exchange trading, taking its decline this
year to 29 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 