-- 
Lennar Names Former Morgan Stanley Executive Jay Mantz Rialto’s President

-- B y   K a t i e   S p e n c e r   a n d   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-09-28T20:31:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/lennar-names-former-morgan-stanley-executive-jay-mantz-rialto-s-president.html
Lennar Corp. (LEN) , the third-largest
U.S. homebuilder by revenue, named  Morgan Stanley (MS)  veteran Jay Mantz president of its Rialto Investments unit as the company
expands the distressed-investing business.  Mantz spent 18 years at Morgan Stanley, most recently as
vice chairman of its real estate investing group, before leaving
in January. He will oversee Rialto’s real estate management
business, Miami-based Lennar said in a statement today.  The hiring “furthers Lennar’s strategy of growing our
existing Rialto franchise, and in particularly expanding our
access to capital and new investment opportunities to create
value for our partners and shareholders,” Chief Executive
Officer  Stuart Miller  said in the statement.  Lennar has been cutting costs and investing in distressed
real estate through its Rialto unit to boost earnings as demand
for new homes slumps. Rialto accounted for 49 percent of the
homebuilder’s operating income in the second quarter, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rialto may eventually be spun off as a separate company,
Miller said at an investment conference in November, similar to
Lennar’s previous distressed division, LNR Capital Corp. Lennar
created LNR in 1991, during the previous real estate downturn.
LNR accounted for about half of the homebuilder’s net income in
the mid-1990s and was spun off in 1997.  Lennar fell 39 cents to $13.32 as of 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange Composite trading. The shares have declined 29
percent this year, compared with a 30 percent loss for the 12-
member S&P Supercomposite Homebuilding Index.  Bill Landis, who joined Rialto in 2008 as chief investment
officer, will now serve as its chief operating officer, Lennar
said in the statement. Landis and Mantz will report to Rialto
CEO Jeff Krasnoff.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katie Spencer in New York at 
 kspencer14@bloomberg.net ;
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  