-- 
Tennis Tours Sell Live Scores to Curb Illegal Data Collection, Raise Funds

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-09-28T16:13:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/tennis-tours-sell-live-scores-to-curb-illegal-data-collection-raise-funds.html
The governing bodies of men’s and
women’s professional tennis will sell live scores for the first
time as the sport tries to crack down on data collection used
for illegal gambling.  “There are a lot of unauthorized people out there
collecting our data, either scraping it off our websites or
television or sitting in the stands, keying in every shot, often
with errors, and selling it for substantial profit,” Kate
Gordon, spokeswoman for the men’s  ATP World Tour , said in an
interview.  The ATP and women’s  WTA  tour have appointed Copenhagen-
based  Enetpulse ApS  as sole global distributor of their official
live scoring tennis data. The tours said in separate e-mails
that “numerous unauthorized sources” collect and sell scoring
data and that the practice “presents an integrity risk at
tournaments.” No financial details were disclosed.  Tennis officials have become concerned about people
attending matches who send unlicensed scoring data on a mobile
telephone to gambling websites or data companies for a profit.
The information sent by these so-called ‘courtsiders’ is often
quicker than a live feed via television or the Internet, giving
gamblers an advantage when placing bets. The tours don’t allow
live transmission of scores for commercial gain from tournament
sites.  In 2008, tennis became one of the first sports to set up
its own anti-corruption program. The  Tennis Integrity Unit ,
headed by a former Scotland Yard detective, was founded after
suspicious betting on a match in August 2007 involving Nikolay Davydenko, then ranked No. 4 on the men’s tour. The Russian was
cleared of any wrongdoing by the men’s tennis tour in 2008 after
a 13-month investigation.  Betting Issues  More than a dozen players said publicly that year that
they had been approached to throw matches and the tour banned
three Italian players for betting.  Live scores are currently being made available to the
public through the ATP and WTA websites, television broadcasts
and onsite at events.  Television pictures may trail a live tennis match by as
long as eight seconds, with live streaming on the Internet
lagging behind by at least six seconds or more, Phil Parry,
Enetpulse’s Isle of Man-based business development manager, said
in an interview. Enetpulse is aiming to cut the time between a
point being played and the score appearing on its new system to
less than two seconds, he said.  The Danish company will start testing the system once the
tennis season finishes in November, and is aiming to go live in
January, Parry said.  Scoring Networks  The WTA and  ATP World Tour  have invested $10 million in the
past decade to develop one of the biggest live scoring networks
in the world. Although many professional sports leagues such as
soccer’s Premier League have sold its scoring data, it has never
been done before in tennis.  Last year, 19,000 matches played on the ATP and the WTA
tours produced more than 400,000 games and almost 2.5 million
points, according to Enetpulse.  The Danish company was founded in 2000 and provides live
content of over 60 sports to more than 150 clients including
live scoring portals, media organizations and betting companies.  The agreement is not only aimed at eradicating illegal data
collection at tournament sites, it also provides the sport with
a “new revenue stream,” WTA spokesman Andrew Walker said in an
e-mail.  “The data will be sold to both the gambling market and the
editorial market,” Walker said. “The agreement with Enetpulse
covers the gambling market only for now.”  Competition  Whether the new system will stop courtsiders from sending
information from a tournament “really will depend on the price
of the new service,” said Warwick Bartlett, chief executive
officer of Isle of Man-based Global Betting and Gaming
Consultancy, which produces a database of the global gambling
industry. “If it is too expensive then illegals will be
encouraged to compete.”  Tennis betting generates $84.5 million - or 0.5 percent -of
the gross gaming yield forecast for all sports betting for this
year of $16.9 billion, Bartlett estimated.  Betfair Group Plc (BET) , the biggest online person-to-person
betting exchange, declined to comment. Alex O’Dononhue, a
spokesman for U.K. bookmaker  Ladbrokes Plc (LAD) , said: “it doesn’t
strike me as something we’d be interested in at this stage.”  The agreement between Enetpulse and the tours doesn’t cover
the four Grand Slam tournaments - the Australian, French and
U.S. Opens and Wimbledon.  The four majors are all official championships of the
 International Tennis Federation . Although the ITF has no
immediate plans for its own live scoring system, spokeswoman
Barbara Travers said in an interview it is looking at options.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  