-- 
ENRC Says Chairman Sittard, CEO Vulis to Remain in Posts

-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 
2011-09-28T18:52:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/enrc-says-chairman-sittard-ceo-vulis-to-remain-in-posts-1-.html
Eurasian Natural Resources Corp.,
the Kazakh ferroalloy producer that held a corporate governance
review, said Johannes Sittard will remain its chairman with
Felix Vulis as chief executive officer.  Mehmet Dalman is the Senior Independent Director and
Terence Wilkinson is appointed as an independent non-executive
director, ENRC said in a statement today. Vulis has withdrawn
his resignation and continues in his post with the full support
of the board, the company said.  ENRC began the review on June 8 after shareholders voted
against rehiring independent directors Richard Sykes and Kenneth Olisa. The exercise also followed Vulis’s Feb. 4 resignation
amid board conflicts. He has remained in the post while the
company sought a replacement. ENRC will now have 11 directors,
six of them in independent non-executive roles.  The new board “has a clear majority of independent
directors,” Sittard told reporters on a conference call after
the statement. “So my being independent or dependent is now
irrelevant.”  A row between independent directors and major shareholders
began August 2009 as Chairman David Cooksey was replaced by then
CEO Sittard, and Vulis was hired, Olisa said June 10.  “That appointment shifted the gravity of the board from
independent chairman, independent non-executives and therefore
independent board to basically dependent chairman and dependent
directors,” Olisa said of the producer of metals in  Kazakhstan .  Commitment to Independence  Billionaire ENRC founder Alexander Machkevitch applied for
U.K. Listing Authority clearance to be chairman, the Observer
reported Sept. 11.  Paul Judge , one of two U.K. independent
directors, opposes the bid and plans to become chairman himself,
it reported.  The company isn’t considering selecting Machkevitch as
chairman, Dalman said on the call today. “There’s no need for
us to proceed with this anymore because we made a commitment to
have an independent board.”  ENRC’s three founders, Machkevitch, Alijan Ibragimov and
Patokh Chodiev, hold 14.6 percent of London-based ENRC, which
makes ferroalloys,  iron ore , aluminum and power in Kazakhstan.  Sittard said the founding shareholders aren’t involved in
the operations of the company.  “I’m 100 percent convinced that the shareholders I’ve
spoken to will be very supportive of this composition of the
board and its independence,” Dalman said. “I will be very
surprised if they will not.”  ENRC, which has dropped 28 percent in London trading since
the review started, closed at 579.5 pence before the
announcement, valuing the company at 7.5 billion pounds ($11.7
billion.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ; 