-- 
EPA Missed Some Steps in Climate-Change Review, Inspector General Says

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-09-28T21:01:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/epa-missed-some-steps-in-climate-change-review-inspector-general-says.html
The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency failed to follow all needed procedures when deciding
whether  greenhouse gases  pose a danger to the public, the
agency’s inspector general said.  An EPA employee sat on the 12-member scientific panel
reviewing the technical analysis, and the committee’s
recommendations weren’t made public, according to a report
released today by the agency watchdog’s office.  “It is clear that EPA did not follow all required steps
for a highly influential scientific assessment,” Inspector
General Arthur A. Elkins Jr. said in a statement today.  The report didn’t question the scientific studies behind
the determination, and the White House Office of Management and
Budget, which established the process, disagreed with the
inspector general’s conclusions.  The budget office “is confident that EPA reasonably
interpreted the direction provided and is complying
appropriately,” Meg Reilly, an OMB spokeswoman, said in an e-
mail.  In 2007, the  Supreme Court  ruled the EPA had authority to
regulate greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide and methane,
under the  Clean Air Act  if the agency declared them a danger to
the public. The EPA issued its so-called endangerment finding in
December 2009, clearing the way for the agency to control
emissions linked to global  climate change  from  power plants ,
factories and other sources.  Inhofe, EPA React  “This report confirms that the endangerment finding, the
very foundation of President Obama’s job-destroying regulatory
agenda, was rushed, biased, and flawed,” Senator  James Inhofe ,
an Oklahoma Republican who requested the inspector general’s
examination, said in a statement. It “undermines the
credibility of the endangerment finding.”  The EPA said the inspector general’s findings on the
process shouldn’t distract from the results.  “The report importantly does not question or even address
the science used or the conclusions reached -- by the EPA under
this and the previous administration -- that greenhouse gas
pollution poses a threat to the health and welfare of the
American people,” the agency said in an e-mailed statement.
“The report is focused on questions of process and
procedures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  