-- 
Merkel Sees More Bailout Talks After Review

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-09-28T12:13:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/merkel-says-troika-greek-report-may-mean-more-talks-on-july-pact.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
signaled policy makers may review Greece’s second bailout after
international debt inspectors rule on whether the country is
meeting the terms of its current aid package.  Greece’s “numbers in September, as it now seems, were
again different from what we expected under the program,”
Merkel told Greek broadcaster NET when asked whether the second
bailout agreed by European leaders on July 21 will be revised.  “We must now await what the troika, that is the expert
mission, finds out and tells us: do we need to renegotiate or
don’t we need to renegotiate?” Merkel said, according to a
transcript provided by her press office late yesterday. “What
we would like the most, of course, is that the numbers stay as
we know them. But I can’t pre-empt the outcome of the troika.”  Experts from the European Commission,  European Central Bank 
and  International Monetary Fund  will return to Athens tomorrow
as officials race to put in place a package of measures that
will ring-fence Greece. Euro-area finance ministers will hold an
extra meeting on Greece in October amid international concerns
that a default could plunge the global economy into recession.  Greece won’t be repay all of its debt and will have to
leave the euro area,  Otmar Issing , the ECB’s former chief
economist, was quoted as saying by Stern magazine. The country
needs to write down its debt by at least 50 percent, the German
weekly quoted him as saying in an interview published today.  ‘Sustainable Footing’  The restart of the so-called troika review in Athens will
“constitute an important step toward achieving the 2012 agreed
fiscal target and putting the Greek public finances on a
sustainable footing,” commission spokesman  Amadeu Altafaj  told
reporters in Brussels.  Merkel’s remarks came as a person familiar with the matter
said German banks are resisting pressure to accept larger
writedowns on their holdings of Greek government debt. German
lawmakers have called on lenders in recent days to accept a
larger writedown than the 21 percent proposed by the  Institute
of International Finance , an industry lobby group, said a person
briefed on the talks.  Earlier, the Financial Times Deutschland reported that euro
members have started talks on renegotiating the second bailout.
Banks and insurance companies might have to increase their
contribution to the rescue package as Greece’s economy has
deteriorated, the German newspaper  said , citing unidentified
people familiar with the situation.  Property-Tax Vote  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won parliamentary
backing for a property tax to meet deficit-reduction targets
required to avoid default, prompting an offer of support from
Merkel in Berlin, where the two had dinner yesterday.  “We want a strong Greece in the euro area and  Germany  is
ready to offer all kinds of help that is needed,” Merkel told
reporters at a joint briefing with Papandreou. “I have heard so
far that Greece is ready to meet the conditions” set by the
IMF, the ECB and the EU commission.  Euro-area governments are withholding approval of the next
loan installment under Greece’s May 2010 110 billion-euro ($150
billion) bailout until officials from the three institutions
rule whether the government is meeting its targets. The next aid
payment is due in October.  Merkel didn’t elaborate in the television interview on
possible changes to the second bailout, which includes an accord
for banks and insurers to reduce the value of their Greek debt
holdings. Merkel’s chief spokesman, Steffen Seibert, didn’t
reply to requests for comment by phone and text message today.  Greek Bonds  The yield on 10-year Greek  government bonds  fell 4 basis
points to 23.27 at 12:30 p.m. in  Athens  today and the two-year
note yield climbed 38 basis points to 70.43 percent.  Greek bonds have tumbled in recent weeks and credit
insurance has soared, putting the chance of default at more than
90 percent, as Papandreou struggled to rein in the deficit and a
recession deepened in its third year.  “Implementation of the measures is the biggest challenge
for the government as the trade unions and parts of the civil
service will mount significant resistance, raising the risk of
inertia and inaction,”  Wolfango Piccoli , an analyst in  London 
at Eurasia Group, said before the vote.  The property tax was part of a package of cuts announced
earlier this month after officials from the European Union and
IMF told  Greece  it wasn’t meeting the terms of its rescue.  European Commission President  Jose Barroso  called today for
 Europe ’s permanent rescue fund to be speeded up, saying the debt
crisis had reached a “serious” stage.  Due to be set up in mid-2013, the European Stability
Mechanism will wield a 500 billion-euro war chest that could be
used more flexibly than the current guarantee-based temporary
financial backstop.  The European Union also proposed a financial-transaction
tax that would take effect in 2014 and raise about 57 billion
euros a year. The plan would set minimum tax rates for trading
of stocks, bonds and derivatives contracts throughout the 27-
nation EU, the commission, the EU’s Brussels-based executive,
said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  