-- 
Mets’ Reyes Bunts for Hit, Exits Cincinnati Game With Batting Title Lead

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-28T20:29:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/mets-reyes-bunts-for-hit-exits-cincinnati-game-with-batting-title-lead.html
Jose Reyes  of the  New York Mets 
extended his lead in the chase for the National League batting
title with a first-inning bunt single and then was taken out of
today’s regular-season finale.  Reyes, the Mets’ shortstop, boosted his batting average to
.337 with his hit in a 3-0 win against the  Cincinnati Reds . Ryan Braun of the  Milwaukee Brewers  has a .335 average.  The crowd at  New York ’s Citi Field booed when Reyes didn’t
return to the game after the first inning. Reyes said he told
Mets manager Terry Collins that he wanted to come out of the
game if he got a hit in his first at-bat. The Mets have never
had a batting champion.  “I understand and heard some comments in the stands and
don’t blame them,” Collins said during a news conference.
“They pay a lot of money to come to the games. You’ve got to
understand, I ask these players to do a lot.”  The Brewers, who won the NL Central Division title, are
scheduled to play their final game of the regular season tonight
against the Pittsburgh Pirates.  Braun, 27, would have to collect at least three hits to
pass Reyes, 28, for the batting title. Even if Braun got hits in
his first two at-bats tonight, he’d be .00016 behind Reyes.  “I’m going to watch the game for sure to see what’s going
on,” Reyes, who now becomes a free agent, told reporters.
“That’s not easy to win a batting title.”  John Olerud’s .354 batting average in 1998 was the best in
Mets’ history, according to Baseball-Reference.com. He finished
second in the batting title race that year to the  Colorado
Rockies ’ Larry Walker, who hit .363.  Reyes declined to negotiate a new deal during the season,
saying he didn’t want any distractions, and said he was aware
today may have been his final game with the Mets. He was in the
option season of a four-year, $23.25 million contract.  “It’s in my mind because I don’t know what’s going to
happen,” Reyes said. “But there’s a long way to go. I’ve
always said I want to come back here.”  Whether the Mets can afford to re-sign Reyes might depend
on their own financial health. Earlier this month the team ended
discussions to sell a 33 percent share of the franchise to
hedge-fund manager  David Einhorn  for $200 million in an attempt
to defray costs from a lawsuit filed by the trustee representing
investors who lost money in the  Ponzi scheme  run by Bernard L. Madoff.  Reyes finishes the season with a .337 average, seven home
runs, 44 runs batted in, 101 runs and 39 stolen bases. He also
had 16 triples, tied with Philadelphia’s Shane Victorino for the
major league lead, and said he’ll be happy with his season no
matter what Braun does tonight.  “It is what it is,” Reyes said. “If he wins it, he
earned it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  