-- 
EU Stiffens Deficit, Debt Rules to Prevent Further Crises

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-09-28T13:13:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/eu-approves-first-of-six-new-laws-to-toughen-deficit-rules.html
The European Union toughened the
enforcement of rules to control budget deficits in a bid to
prevent a repetition of the Greece-triggered debt crisis that
threatens the euro and global growth.  The European Parliament voted today in Strasbourg, France,
to make sanctions more automatic against euro-area nations that
breach deficit and debt limits. The tighter surveillance
complements more immediate efforts by euro-area governments and
the  European Central Bank  to prevent Spain and  Italy  from being
engulfed by investors’ fears of a Greek default.  The EU is strengthening the threat of fiscal penalties that
have never been imposed in the euro’s 12-year history, with ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  leading calls for more effective
regulation.  Greece , which sparked the debt crisis last year by
requiring a 110 billion-euro ($149 billion) rescue, has exceeded
the EU’s deficit ceiling -- 3 percent of gross domestic product
-- throughout this period.  “This is a crucial pillar to prevent future crises by
establishing semi-automatic sanctions for countries that ignore
the rules,” said  Corien Wortmann-Kool , a Dutch member who
helped to steer the new measures through the 27-nation EU
Parliament. The bloc’s national governments have already
signaled support for the legislation, making their final
approval a formality in the coming days.  Distressed Nations  The penalties are the central component of a six-piece
package of laws on closer economic management that  Germany  has
championed as aid requests from distressed euro nations have
grown. The legislation makes it easier to impose sanctions on
euro-area governments that let their budget deficits swell or
overall debt surpass 60 percent of GDP.  The euro area is still grappling with its failure to
enforce the original budget rules because aid packages for
Greece, Ireland and Portugal as well as bond purchases by the
ECB over the past year and a half have failed to stamp out debt
concerns. The worries rattled markets in AAA rated France in
August and have prompted the euro area to consider ways of
bolstering its 440 billion-euro temporary rescue fund, known as
the European Financial Stability Facility.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  said this week that the debt
crisis in  Europe  “is scaring the world” while Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  predicted European governments
would step up their response. Analysts in Europe say the tougher
budget oversight fills in gaps in Europe’s economic
coordination.  ‘Enormous Step Forward’  “The new budget-surveillance system is an enormous step
forward,” said  Karel Lannoo , chief executive officer of the
Centre for European Policy Studies in Brussels. “This has
little relevance for the current  crisis management  except to
show to Germany that economic governance is being improved and
to help overcome German concerns about insufficient
accountability in this area at European level.”  Under the new system,  penalties  starting with interest-
bearing deposits could be imposed before a country breaches the
deficit and debt limits, with the money confiscated if the
government balks at repeated EU demands to fix the budget. Fines
would amount to 0.2 percent of GDP.  While  France  succeeded in adding a fourth layer of
political scrutiny over any members deviating from their targets
before the imposition of fines, the voting rules will make it
harder for governments to block sanctions.  ‘Serious Negligence’  A one-off fine will be possible against any nation that
“intentionally or by serious negligence misrepresents deficit
and debt data.” Greece fudged its budget figures before the
debt crisis.  A second part of the package tackles debt more
aggressively, applying the tougher surveillance system to
nations that veer from the EU limit. Under the new rules, Italy
would have faced demands in the early 2000s for corrective
budget policies as a result solely of its debt trends, according
to the European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, which
proposed the new rules a year ago.  Countries over the debt limit will have to hit an annual
reduction target equal to one-twentieth of the excess under the
new legislation.  A third element sets a ceiling on annual expenditure
growth. Countries that fail to meet budget goals would face a
spending limit below the ceiling.  ‘Sound Public Finances’  A fourth feature creates benchmarks and sanctions for
macroeconomic imbalances such as current-account deficits, which
signaled difficulties for  Portugal , and housing bubbles, which
spelled trouble for Ireland. Fines in this part of the package
would amount to 0.1 percent of GDP.  “Today sound public finances won,” said  Carl Haglund , a
Finnish member of the EU Parliament. “This is more than
necessary looking at the brink of catastrophe that we are at.”  The new rules will start to take effect within weeks of
final approval by EU governments, with the tougher system for
monitoring debt starting three years after a country brings its
current budgetary excesses into line.  Because 23 of 27 EU nations are currently deemed to have an
excessive deficit, the euro-area nations in this group would
face the threat of fines halfway through the new surveillance
system rather than at the beginning of it. The four EU nations
whose budgetary situation is deemed acceptable are  Sweden ,
 Finland ,  Estonia  and  Luxembourg .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg, France at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  