-- 
EU Close to Deal on OTC Derivatives Law

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-09-28T20:54:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/eu-governments-said-to-be-close-to-deal-on-otc-derivatives-law.html
European Union governments are
close to a deal on rules for trading of over-the-counter
derivatives in the region following a negotiation meeting
yesterday, said two people familiar with the discussions.  The draft rules, which would empower the EU to decide on
types of derivatives that should be centrally cleared, will now
be discussed by the 27-nation region’s finance ministers next
week in an attempt to confirm the accord, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the talks are private. The
final version of the law would then be completed in negotiations
with the European Parliament.  A majority of states back a compromise text put forward by
 Poland , which holds the rotating presidency of the EU, the
people said. The  United Kingdom  hasn’t given its backing, one of
the people said. A representative at the U.K. government’s
office in Brussels couldn’t immediately be reached for comment
after regular business hours. U.K. support isn’t required for EU
passage of the new rules.  The original version of the draft law was proposed by
 Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services commissioner, in
September 2010. Barnier “has stressed the importance of
concluding work on this legislation as soon as possible,”
 Chantal Hughes , his spokeswoman, said in an interview.  “We hope to see substantial progress in coming days,
including at next week’s meeting of finance ministers,” Hughes
said. Barnier will work with governments “to help find a way
forward on the few outstanding issue that hopefully satisfies
all parties.”  Clearinghouses  Clearinghouses such as LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. and Deutsche
Boerse AG’s  Eurex Clearing  operate as central counterparties for
every buy and sell order executed by their members, who post
collateral, reducing the threat from a trader’s default. The
Group of 20 nations is encouraging greater use of them in a bid
to cut some of the risks attached to derivatives trading.  The Financial Stability Board has said that clearinghouses
should in turn face  tougher regulation  because a crisis at one
of them could threaten the global financial system.  Points of discussion for governments on the draft law have
included what access clearinghouses should be granted to trade
data from exchanges, whether to fully apply the clearing rules
to pension funds, and what powers should be granted to the
 European Securities and Markets Authority .  The law would also set rules on management of clearing
houses, including on how much capital they must hold to protect
themselves from insolvency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at   jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 