-- 
EU Proposes $78 Billion-a-Year Financial Transaction Tax to Start in 2014

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-09-28T14:30:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/eu-proposes-78-billion-a-year-financial-transaction-tax-to-start-in-2014.html
The European Union proposed a
financial-transactions tax that would take effect in 2014 and
raise about 57 billion euros ($78 billion) a year, prompting
renewed opposition from the U.K.  The proposal would apply a tax of 0.1 percent on trading of
stocks and bonds, with a 0.01 percent rate for derivatives
contracts, the European Commission, the EU executive, said today
in Brussels. Those minimum rates would apply throughout the 27-
nation bloc. The measure would deliver “a fair contribution
from the financial sector,” EU Tax Commissioner Algirdas Semeta
said.  European governments are split over the merits of a
transactions tax, while British banks warn that an EU-only
measure would drive business to other regions. The U.K., home to
 Europe ’s biggest financial center, has opposed the move, which
requires the unanimous support of all EU countries. The U.K.
Treasury reiterated today that such a levy would need to apply
globally.  “The consensus is that anything less than a globally
applied, uniform tax would distort the markets and reward
dissenting low-tax regimes rather than raising significant
revenue,” the British Bankers’ Association, which lobbies for
the country’s banking industry, said in a statement. “The U.K.
would be particularly affected by any such tax as it is the
world’s financial center.”  ‘Frictions’  EU member states will discuss the proposal before the
commission presents the plan to the Group of 20 nations at a
November summit. U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
said this month that a transaction tax could create
“frictions” that would worsen the impact of a crisis without
offering a protective reduction in volatility or risk-taking.  “Europe needs to focus on rebuilding its economies and
fostering recovery. This proposal will do nothing to support
either of those aims,” the Association for Financial Markets in
Europe, a lobby group that represents banks and brokers
including Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Deutsche Bank AG and UBS AG,
said in an e-mailed statement. “Europe’s leaders should reject
this proposal as potentially damaging to their economies and the
financial system.”  The proposed tax is aimed at banks, investment firms,
insurance companies, pension funds, stockbrokers and  hedge
funds , among other types of financial firms, the EU said. Spot
foreign-exchange trades would not be covered by the tax, while
currency derivatives are included.  Bond Auctions  Transactions with the  European Central Bank  and other
central banks wouldn’t be covered by the tax, according to the
proposal. It also features an exemption for the “primary
market,” which includes sovereign and corporate bond auctions.  “The tax would aim at covering 85 percent of the
transactions that take place between financial institutions,”
according to the proposal. The EU is seeking to insulate
households and small businesses from the levy, and says banks
could charge “not excessive” fees such as a 10-euro fee on a
10,000-euro stock purchase.  The tax would “ensure that the financial sector makes a
fair contribution at a time of fiscal consolidation,” the
commission said. It would affect market behavior and financial-
industry business models, such as high-frequency and automated
trading, the EU said.  Additional Tax  The BBA said “banks conduct transactions for their
customers, therefore any tax on transactions would be an
additional tax on customers.”  The plan drew support from Oxfam International and Catholic
Development Agencies, who said the measure would increase
justice and provide funding for environmental and social goals.
Oxfam said the U.K. has existing taxes that haven’t had a big
negative effect on London business, suggesting that the EU
proposal also would not do harm.  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  have called for the EU to introduce its own
transactions tax irrespective of whether other regions follow
suit. The finance ministers of Spain and  Belgium  said on Sept.
17 that the euro area’s 17 governments should consider
introducing their own transaction tax if no agreement were
possible at the global or EU level.  Tax Commissioner Semeta, speaking in a press briefing today
in Strasbourg,  France , downplayed the prospect of narrowing the
proposal’s scope.  ‘Clear Benefits’  “There are clear benefits of the proposal for the United
Kingdom,” Semeta said. “It will give additional revenues to
our member states including the United Kingdom. Many member
states need consolidation efforts and these additional revenues
would be also beneficial for the U.K. At the same time, it would
reduce the contribution of the  United Kingdom  to the EU
budget.”  U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable earlier today said
taxation is a “national competence issue” and EU proposals for
a levy on financial transactions cannot be forced on the U.K.
Cable was speaking to Bloomberg Television from Istanbul.  Today’s announcement follows a 2010 proposal that failed to
draw agreement among member nations. The financial industry says
a transaction tax would affect the broader economy because banks
would pass on costs to clients.  An impact assessment accompanying the proposal says that
the plan would have a “long-run” negative impact of 0.5
percent of gross domestic product.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  