-- 
Yen Gains Against Euro as Signs of Global Slowdown Increase Haven Demand

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-09-28T10:14:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/euro-retreats-against-yen-dollar-amid-concern-at-europe-economic-slowdown.html
The yen rose on reports some euro-
area nations are pushing Greek bondholders to accept larger
writedowns and as  Germany  said the nation’s second bailout
package may be revised, boosting demand for a refuge.  The euro headed for a fifth consecutive monthly decline
against the yen after the Financial Times reported yesterday
that some euro-area countries want private creditors to take
bigger losses on their Greek bond holdings. The shared currency
advanced against the dollar for a fourth day after European
Commission President  Jose Barroso  called for faster creation of
a permanent euro rescue fund.  China ’s yuan strengthened on bets
policy makers will allow currency gains to curb inflation.  “Investors are nervous so any new statements from
politicians and policy makers will move the market,” said You- Na Park, a foreign-exchange strategist at Commerzbank AG in
 Frankfurt . “There’s still a lot of uncertainty about the euro-
zone debt crisis and the state of the global economy so
investors are favoring safe-haven currencies like the yen.”  The yen strengthened 0.1 percent to 104.2 per euro at 11:08
a.m. in London, taking its advance this month to 5.3 percent.
The Japanese currency appreciated 0.5 percent to 76.40 per
dollar. The euro rose 0.5 percent to $1.3653.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said she’s waiting for a
report from a team of officials from the European Union,
European Central Bank and  International Monetary Fund  on
Greece’s progress before deciding whether a second financing
package for the country agreed on July 21 needs to be revised.  Greek Default  “We need to wait to see what the expert mission, the
troika, determines and what it will say in relation to whether
there needs to be new talks or not,” Merkel told Athens-based
state broadcaster NET in an interview.  Germany still privately anticipates that the Mediterranean
nation will default on its debt as early as this year, Bild
reported Merkel as saying earlier at a meeting of Christian
Democratic lawmakers, citing unidentified participants.  “We should do everything possible to accelerate the entry
into force of the ESM,” Barroso told the European Parliament in
Strasbourg,  France  today, referring to the European Stability
Mechanism. He warned that the debt crisis had reached a
“serious” stage and ruled out the ouster of Greece from the
euro.  Due to be set up in mid-2013, the ESM will wield a 500
billion-euro war chest that could be used more flexibly than the
current guarantee-based temporary financial backstop.  “The focus is still very much on matters in  Europe  and the
progress being made to resolve the debt crisis,” said  Gavin Friend , a markets strategist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in
London. “The yen is finding support from the safe-haven bid.”  Recession Concern  Japan ’s currency may climb to as strong as 75 per dollar
“within weeks” as investors continue to purchase the currency
as a refuge from the euro-area debt crisis, Friend said.  France’s statistics office confirmed that gross domestic
product was unchanged in the second quarter from the preceding
three-month period. That’s in line with the initial estimate
reported last month. Bookings for U.S. durable goods, which are
meant to last at least three years, dropped 0.2 percent last
month, according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists before
today’s report.  Most advanced economies are entering into a recession while
the U.S. is already in the throes of an economic contraction,
 Nouriel Roubini , co-founder and chairman of Roubini Global
Economics LLC, said in a panel discussion yesterday at the
Bloomberg Dealmakers Summit in  New York .  ECB Rates  The  European Central Bank  is likely to cut its benchmark
 interest rate , “with an increasing probability of a euro-zone
recession unfolding in early 2012,” Robert Sinche, the global
head of currency strategy for Royal Bank of Scotland in
Stamford, Connecticut, wrote in a research note yesterday.
“Reflecting this lower policy rate profile now expected from
the ECB, we are lowering the euro-dollar forecast profile by 3
cents through the end of 2012.”  The euro will finish this year at $1.33 and end 2012 at
$1.41, the bank forecasts.  China’s yuan climbed after the People’s Bank of China set
its daily  reference rate  at the strongest level since July 2005.
The nation’s consumer prices rose 6.2 percent in August from a
year earlier after a 6.5 percent increase in July.  “Today’s fixing reflects China’s determination to tame
inflation with a stronger currency,” said Edmond Law, deputy
head of foreign exchange at BWC Capital Markets in Hong Kong.
“The inflation slowdown in August was matched by the yuan’s
gain for the same period. Yuan appreciation has proved useful in
reining in prices.”  The yuan strengthened to 6.3938 per dollar from 6.3992, the
biggest gain since Sept. 16.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Garth Theunissen in  London  at 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  