-- 
European Debt Crisis May Affect South Africa Policy Options, Gordhan Says

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-09-28T14:23:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/european-debt-crisis-may-affect-south-africa-policy-options-gordhan-says.html
The European debt crisis, which
threatens to push the global economy into recession, poses a
challenge for the South African government’s attempt to boost
growth and create jobs, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said.  South Africa  is trying to balance fiscal credibility and
efforts to grow the economy, Gordhan told reporters today in the
capital, Pretoria, after returning from meetings of the
 International Monetary Fund  and  World Bank  in  Washington . The
country’s February budget called for “growth-friendly” fiscal
restraint, he said.  Global markets tumbled last week as concern mounted that
the debt crisis in  Europe  may spread beyond Greece and derail a
global recovery. South Africa’s economy expanded at the slowest
pace in almost two years in the second quarter, as manufacturing
and mining output plunged. Governments in Europe, which buys
about a third of South Africa’s manufactured goods, are slashing
budgets to ease the debt crisis. Gordhan will announce new
fiscal forecasts in a mid-term budget statement on Oct. 25.  Growth in  Africa ’s biggest economy slowed to an annualized
1.3 percent in the second quarter, according to the statistics
agency. The government estimates it needs growth of 7 percent a
year over the next decade to slash the jobless rate to 14
percent from 25.7 percent.  “The normal recoveries aren’t happening,” Gordhan said.
“Given the abnormalities and tumultuousness, how do you manage
fiscal credibility and how do you ensure your economy grows.
That’s the mix some countries aren’t getting right.”  Worst Week  A depreciation in the value of the rand, if sustained, will
add to inflation, Gordhan said. Policymakers are “scratching
our heads” on how to deal with the rand’s decline, he said.
Labor unions and the government have previously said the
currency’s strength hurt exporters.  The rand had the worst weekly decline since October 2008
last week, falling to as low at 8.6165 against the dollar before
paring losses. It is 15 percent weaker this year, the worst
performing of the 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The
rand strengthened 0.6 percent to 7.8165 by 3:35 p.m. in
Johannesburg.  A depreciation in emerging-market currencies represent an
“overshoot” and may ease as risk appetite improves,  Gill Marcus , the governor of South Africa’s central bank, said in an
opinion article published in Johannesburg-based Financial Mail
today. The global economy is in a “danger zone,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  