-- 
Europe, Russia Move Toward UN Security Council Accord on Syria

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-09-28T23:29:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/europe-russia-move-toward-un-security-council-accord-on-syria.html
Europeans in the  United Nations 
Security Council moved toward agreement today with  Russia  and
 China  on a resolution to increase pressure on Syria to halt
repression of anti-government protesters.  “I think we are very close,” Ambassador Baso Sangqu of
 South Africa , a Security Council member, said after a two-hour
meeting in  New York . “I think something will emerge.”  Envoys of Britain, France,  Germany  and Portugal said they
would circulate a new draft resolution tonight that takes into
account Russia’s concerns about their threat to impose sanctions
on Syria’s government. Sangqu referred to “automaticity” in
the latest European text that is a major sticking point,
suggesting that a new version would allow for some flexibility
before sanctions are triggered.  The Europeans already had abandoned a measure circulated
last month that would have imposed an arms embargo, travel ban
and asset freeze, replacing it yesterday with a text that
“expresses determination” to impose sanctions in the event the
violence continues.  “I think it can be done,” Russian Ambassador Vitaly Churkin said of a possible agreement.  The U.S., unhappy with the willingness of the Europeans to
soften yesterday’s proposed resolution, wants a meaningful
measure in response to the Syrian government crackdown on
opposition groups, State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland 
said earlier in Washington.  “We want a resolution with teeth,” Nuland said at the
daily briefing. “We want a resolution that makes absolutely
clear to the Assad regime that the violence has to end.”  International Observers  The U.S. also wants international observers inside Syria to
monitor developments. “We need witnesses so we can hold Assad
to account,” Nuland said.  Representatives of the 15  Security Council  member
governments are scheduled to meet tomorrow on what will be the
third version of a European draft resolution, with a vote
possible as early as Sept. 30.  Al Jazeera reported 17 deaths today in Syria. Earlier, a
human rights activist said Syrian security forces had killed at
least 76 people in the past five days as part of a crackdown on
protests against President Bashar al-Assad’s government.  The protests are part of the wave of unrest across the
 Middle East  and North Africa that unseated governments in
Tunisia, Egypt and Libya. Assad’s crackdown has left more than
3,600 civilians dead, according to Ammar Qurabi of the National
Organization for Human Rights in Syria. About 30,000 people have
been detained and 13,000 are still being held, according to
Qurabi and Merhi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net 
Bill Varner at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Terry Atlas at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net  