-- 
European Stocks Slide, Snapping Three-Day Rally; Man Group Sinks

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-09-28T16:24:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/european-stock-futures-drop-on-greek-concern-u-s-futures-little-changed.html
European stocks declined, snapping
the biggest three-day rally in 16 months, amid concern that
holders of Greek bonds will suffer larger losses than previously
agreed upon.  Man Group Plc (EMG)  sank the most in almost three years as the
world’s biggest hedge fund said assets under management will
decrease.  Cairn Energy Plc (CNE)  slid 6.5 percent after abandoning an
exploration well.  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , the operator of the
Frankfurt stock exchange, lost 4 percent as the European Union
proposed a financial-transactions tax.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index slipped 1.1 percent to 227.39 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in  London  after earlier rising as much as
0.5 percent. The gauge had surged 7 percent over the previous
three days, the biggest rally since May 2010, amid speculation
policy makers will increase efforts to contain the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  “We’re evaluating how much banks must take in additional
provisions,” said Pierre Mouton, a  fund manager  at Notz Stucki
& Cie. in Geneva, who helps oversee $7.5 billion. “The market
would be able to forget all of this if the problem stops at
Greece. What is stopping the market from rebounding is concern
about  Italy .”  National benchmark indexes fell in 15 of the 18 western
European markets.  Germany ’s DAX Index and  France ’s CAC 40 Index
both declined 0.9 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index retreated
1.4 percent.  Greek Aid  The European Commission is resisting a push to impose
bigger writedowns on banks’ holdings of Greek government debt
than those agreed at a July 21 summit, a European official said.  The commission opposes ideas that are being floated by some
government officials to get banks to accept bigger so-called
haircuts and doesn’t want to have talks about any such attempt,
the official said on condition of anonymity because the
deliberations are private.  A delegation from the EU commission, the  European Central
Bank  and  International Monetary Fund  will return to Athens
tomorrow as officials race to put in place a package of measures
that will ring-fence  Greece . The Financial Times reported late
yesterday that some euro-area countries are demanding private
creditors take bigger writedowns on their Greek bond holdings.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said today that she’s
waiting for a report from the EU, ECB and IMF on Greece’s budget
progress before deciding whether revisions are needed to the
financing package agreed in July. Euro-area leaders announced
159 billion euros ($229 billion) in new aid for Greece on July
21 and cajoled bondholders into footing part of the bill.  26% Drop  The Stoxx 600 fell 26 percent from this year’s peak in
February through Sept. 22 amid concern the European debt crisis
is spreading and the global economic recovery is faltering. The
decline left the measure trading at 9 times estimated earnings,
the cheapest since March 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Man Group tumbled 25 percent to 180 pence today, the
biggest drop since November 2008, after saying its assets under
management will decline by $6 billion amid “suppressed” demand
for investment products.  “The extreme volatility of markets in recent months has
created challenging performance conditions across asset
classes,” Chief Executive Officer  Peter Clarke  said. “This has
tested investor appetite for risk.”  Cairn Energy sank 6.5 percent to 276.5 pence. The company
said the Delta-1 exploration well off Greenland is being plugged
and abandoned after failing to find hydrocarbons.  Transaction Tax  Deutsche Boerse  sank 4.6 percent to 39.42 euros.  ICAP Plc (IAP) ,
the world’s largest broker of transactions between banks,
declined 3.8 percent to 429.4 pence.  The EU proposed a financial-transactions tax that would
take effect in 2014 and raise about 57 billion euros a year. The
proposal would apply a tax of 0.1 percent on trading of stocks
and bonds, with a 0.01 percent rate for derivatives contracts,
the European Commission said today in Brussels. Those minimum
rates would apply throughout the 27-nation bloc.  PSA Peugeot Citroen, Europe’s second-largest carmaker,
declined 3.2 percent to 16.37 euros as Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
cut the shares to “sell” from “neutral.”  Wacker Chemie AG (WCH) , the second-biggest producer of solar-
grade silicon, retreated 8.2 percent to 71.68 euros. The average
price of polysilicon, the raw material for solar modules, fell
4.2 percent to $46.58 a kilogram from last week because supply
exceeds demand, Taipei-based EnergyTrend said today.  Solar Market  Germany, the world’s biggest solar-panel market, added 664
megawatts of the devices in June, a 69 percent drop from the
same period last year, according to preliminary figures from the
German power grid regulator.  Q-Cells SE (QCE)  slid 4.4 percent to 53.8 euros cents and  SMA
Solar Technology AG (S92)  dropped 9 percent to 42.99 euros.  BG Group Plc (BG/)  climbed 3.4 percent to 1,262.5 pence after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. added the oil producer to its
“conviction buy” list.  Smith Group Plc, the world’s largest maker of airport-
security scanners, increased 2.2 percent to 969.5 pence after it
said annual profit held steady, with cost-cutting programs
helping offset “constrained” markets for medical equipment and
detection devices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 