-- 
European Union Split Over Push for Bigger Bank Writedowns in Greek Bailout

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-09-28T17:23:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/european-union-split-over-push-for-bigger-bank-writedowns-in-greek-bailout.html
The European Commission is
resisting a push to impose bigger writedowns on banks’ holdings
of Greek government debt than those agreed on at a July 21
summit, a European official said.  The commission, the European Union’s executive body,
opposes ideas being floated by some government officials to get
banks to accept bigger so-called haircuts and doesn’t want to
have talks about any such attempt, the official said on
condition of anonymity because the deliberations are private.
 Germany  and the Netherlands are leading a drive by as many as
seven euro-area countries for more private-sector involvement in
the second Greek package, the Financial Times reported today.  The German Finance Ministry said it wasn’t “putting
pressure on anybody” over haircuts after  Chancellor Angela Merkel  signaled in an interview with Greek television broadcast
today that policy makers may review Greece’s second bailout
depending on the results of an international progress report.  Experts from the commission, the  European Central Bank  and
the  International Monetary Fund  will return to Athens tomorrow
as officials race to put in place a package of measures that
will ring-fence Greece. The experts will resume their review of
whether  Greece  has met the conditions for the next slice of the
initial, 110 billion-euro ($150 billion) bailout package
engineered last year.  Troika Findings  Euro-area finance ministers will hold an extra meeting on
Greece in October amid international concern that a default
could plunge the global economy into a recession. That meeting
is likely to focus on the 8 billion-euro aid installment from
the first package, without tackling questions about the second
bailout and broader framework that was agreed in July.  “We must now await what the troika, that is the expert
mission, finds out and tells us: do we need to renegotiate or
don’t we need to renegotiate?” Merkel said in the interview
with Greek NET television, according to a transcript.  The Financial Times Deutschland reported earlier today that
euro members have started talks on renegotiating the second
bailout. Banks and insurance companies may have to increase
their contribution to the rescue package as Greece’s economy has
deteriorated, the German newspaper said, citing unidentified
people familiar with the situation.  Premature  “It’s way too early to talk about this,”  Bertrand Benoit ,
a German Finance Ministry spokesman, said by phone, denying that
Germany is behind the efforts. “We want to take everything one
step at a time and the priority now is the sixth tranche” of
Greece’s current aid package.  Bondholders will take a broader role in the second Greek
package, a 159 billion-euro bailout that includes more public
funding, a debt swap, bond buybacks and broad changes to the
terms of the EU’s main rescue fund.  The package must be ratified by the euro area’s member
states and is making its way through the region’s legislatures.
 Finland  today became the ninth country to ratify the package
designed by EU leaders to prevent the region’s debt crisis from
spreading. The measures must be approved by all 17 countries
that share the euro.  Bondholders are in the midst of consultation with
authorities on the debt swap, which aims to include 90 percent
of eligible bonds and contribute at least 50 billion euros to
the rescue effort.  “Participation is firmly building,”  Charles Dallara ,
managing director of the  Institute of International Finance ,
said in an interview on CNBC today. The IIF is a Washington-
based trade group that has been coordinating the debt swap and
helping design its technical details.  “I’m sure there are a few authorities in  Europe  who would
like to see a bigger contribution for the private sector, but
the overwhelming majority in Europe are focused on moving this
thing through the parliaments,” Dallara said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  