-- 
Euro Crisis Makes Fed Lender of Only Resort as Funding Ebbs

-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 
2011-09-28T18:13:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/euro-crisis-makes-fed-lender-of-only-resort-as-banks-chase-dollar-funding.html
The Federal Reserve, chastised by
Congress for lending money to foreign institutions including a
Libyan-owned bank, is once again the lender of last resort for
banks around the world it knows little about.  Three years after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., money-market borrowing rates for dollars are rising,
leading the Fed and  European Central Bank  to make the currency
available to Europe’s institutions for as many as three months.
U.S. prime money-market funds cut their exposure to euro-zone
 bank deposits  and commercial paper, or short-term IOUs, to $214
billion in August from $391 billion at the end of last year,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. data.  The failure of regulators worldwide to address European
banks’ fragile dependence on short-term funding is “putting the
Fed in a really awkward position,” said Karen Shaw Petrou,
managing partner at Federal Financial Analytics, a Washington
regulatory research firm whose clients include the biggest U.S.
banks. The swaps with Europe “are an extremely advantageous
political football” for critics of the Fed, she said.  The extended funding comes as the U.S. central bank is
already under fire for its unprecedented monetary stimulus.
Republican leaders including Representative  John Boehner  of  Ohio 
and Senator Mitch McConnell of  Kentucky  wrote Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and the Board of Governors on Sept. 19, asking them to
“resist further extraordinary intervention in the  U.S.
economy .”  Lawmaker Criticism  Representative Ron Paul, a  Texas  Republican who wants to
abolish the Fed, and Senator Bernard Sanders, a Vermont
independent, have criticized its loans to foreign institutions.  “The Fed has made good on most of its investments over the
years, but increasing its exposure and that of the U.S.
government to foreign banks is a moral-hazard problem,” said
Edward Royce of  California , the third most-senior Republican on
the House Financial Services Committee. “We are effectively
incentivizing U.S. money-market funds to continue to finance
these banks.”  U.S. regulators also are becoming less patient with what
are turning out to be dollar-funding runs against foreign banks.
Financial institutions are too dependent on short-term money-
market investors that tend “to flee at the first signs of
distress,” William C. Dudley, president of the Federal Reserve
Bank of  New York , said Sept. 23 in a Washington speech.  Regulators also lack access to data on foreign institutions
operating in the U.S. that would allow them to “make informed
judgments about the adequacy of such firms’ capital and
liquidity buffers,” he said.  Large Losses  Investors are fleeing because of concern that banks will
take large losses if a euro-zone nation such as Greece defaults.
 Europe ’s debt crisis has generated as much as 300 billion euros
($407 billion) in credit risk for the region’s banks, the
 International Monetary Fund  said last week.  Against the euro, the dollar is heading for its biggest
monthly advance since November last year as European policy
makers fail to contain their region’s sovereign-debt crisis. The
euro traded at $1.3606 as of 1:25 p.m. today in New York.  The London Interbank Offered Rate at which banks say they
can borrow for three months in dollars rose for a 14th day today
to 0.36856 from 0.36522 percent yesterday, according to data
from the British Bankers’ Association.  ECB Coordination  The ECB said Sept. 15 it will coordinate with the Fed and
other central banks to provide three-month dollar loans to banks
to ensure they have enough of the currency through the end of
the year. The Fed bears no foreign-exchange or credit risk on
the swap lines because the Frankfurt-based ECB is its
counterparty.  There were $575 million in outstanding swaps with foreign
central banks as of Sept. 21, Fed data show. The ECB loaned a
similar amount of cash to two euro-area banks earlier this month
in seven-day transactions. The first of three ECB three-month
dollar-loan offers starts Oct. 12.  The Fed facility provides a critical “ceiling” on funding
squeezes that allows investors to avoid panic and distinguish
between healthy and troubled banks, said Jerome Schneider, head
of the short-term strategies and money-markets desk at Pacific
Investment Management Co. in  Newport Beach , California.  “What you don’t want to have is liquidity risk become
intertwined with solvency risk,” Schneider said. The swap lines
are “the foundation right now to provide a backstop.”  Biggest Borrowers  After the criticism earlier this year of lending to
overseas institutions -- including Arab Banking Corp., part-
owned by the  Central Bank  of  Libya , after Lehman collapsed in
2008 -- New York Fed researchers said U.S. branches of foreign
banks were among the biggest borrowers from the discount window
because they lack deposit bases. The window is the Fed’s oldest
backstop-lending tool.  In an April 13 post on the New York bank’s research blog,
the researchers said these institutions have relied more heavily
on so-called wholesale funding for dollars, including the money
markets and foreign-exchange swaps. Supporting these banks
helped maintain foreign investment in the U.S., they said.  The Fed “does need to be concerned about how a liquidity
run on the European banks will impact us -- our financial
markets, our financial institutions, the economy as a whole,”
said Republican Representative Kevin Brady of Texas, the vice
chairman of Congress’s Joint Economic Committee. It needs to
define its safety-net policies and use the extension of its
credit as a lever to persuade European regulators to work on
funding stability, he added. He will call on Bernanke to address
these concerns at an Oct. 4 hearing, he said.  Policy Gap  “The Fed’s lack of a lender-of-last-resort policy really
does create tremendous market uncertainty” and provides an
incentive for institutions “to run to the politicians,” Brady
said. “It does create moral hazard, no doubt about it.”  Euro-zone banks and other institutions were more than $350
billion in debt to the Fed’s emergency-lending facilities at one
point during the 2008-2009 financial crisis, according to data
 compiled  by Bloomberg News. The analysis was based on Fed
documents released earlier this year after court orders upheld
Freedom of Information Act requests by Bloomberg LP, the parent
company of Bloomberg News, and News Corp.’s Fox News Network
LLC. Fed lending to these entities totaled more than $100
billion on an average day.  Dexia SA (DEXB) , based in Brussels and Paris, was the biggest
euro-area borrower, with as much as $58.5 billion of Fed loans
on Dec. 31, 2008.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA in Paris borrowed as much as
$29.3 billion on April 18, 2008. The largest U.S. borrower, New
York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS) , took $107.3 billion of loans on Sept.
29, 2008.  Unstable Funding  Banks that rely on unstable short-term funding risk having
to return to official sources for money until liquidity and
capital are bolstered, said Viral Acharya, a New York University
Stern School of Business professor and author of books on
financial stability.  “All the national regulators have to agree that their
banks need to raise capital,” he said. “The regulators are not
sufficiently united. No one country is taking the leadership to
realize the problem is getting out of hand.”  The Basel committee said today it would speed up work on a
minimum liquidity rule designed to make lenders more resistant
to a short-term funding crunch. Work on “key areas” of the so-
called liquidity-coverage ratio now will be completed “well in
advance” of the original mid-2013 deadline, the committee said.
The measure is scheduled to take effect in January 2015.  While the Fed is legally required to lend to banking
entities in its districts, it “does have a choice” regarding
how it will extend the swap lines, said William Poole, former
president of the  Federal Reserve  Bank of  St. Louis .  “European governments have substantial dollar holdings of
U.S. Treasury securities, so why not sell some of their dollar
securities to support their own banks?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  