-- 
Euro Depreciates From a One-Week High on Debt Crisis Containment Concern

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-09-28T21:14:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/euro-advances-to-one-week-high-as-europe-denies-greek-writedown-pressure.html
The euro dropped against the yen
and the dollar amid concern European leaders will fail to agree
on a solution for the region’s debt crisis.  The 17-nation euro earlier touched a one-week high against
the dollar as the European Union proposed a financial-
transactions tax to take effect in 2014 and  Finland ’s parliament
approved an expansion to the region’s rescue fund. European
leaders disagreed about the size of writedowns on banks’
holdings of Greek government debt. Currencies of commodity-
exporting countries, including  Canada ’s dollar and Brazil’s
real, dropped as raw material prices fell.  “People got a little bit ahead of themselves with this
risk on the table,” said Brian Taylor, chief currency trader a
Manufacturers & Traders Trust in Buffalo New York. “People are
more concerned with the broader issues, especially what’s going
to happen in  Europe . You’re seeing the market say ‘it’s better
to be safe than sorry.’”  The shared currency dropped 0.3 percent to $1.3543 at 5
p.m. in New York after reaching $1.3690, the strongest intraday
level since Sept. 21. The euro was down 0.6 percent to 103.75
yen, on course for a 5.9 percent decline so far this month.
Japan’s currency gained 0.3 percent to 76.61 per dollar.  Euro Path  The euro has fallen 1.4 percent during past three months
against nine developed-market peers, taking its 12-month decline
to 2.5 percent, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes. The yen has strengthened the most among the
nine currencies in the last three months, rising 12 percent, and
the dollar gained 5.9 percent.  President  Barack Obama  said Europe’s debt crisis continues
to be a drag on the  U.S. economy  and the response of governments
there hasn’t been as robust as needed.  “In Europe, we haven’t seen them deal with their banking
system and their financial system as effectively as they needed
to,” Obama said in response to a question about U.S. economic
growth during a roundtable discussion on Hispanic issues at the
White House.  The EU’s financial-transaction levy would set minimum tax
rates for transactions throughout the 27-nation EU, the European
Commission, the bloc’s Brussels-based executive, said in a
statement. The measure would have to be unanimously approved by
the 27 countries.  Tax Take  The tax would raise about 57 billion euros ($78 billion) a
year and would “ensure that the financial sector makes a fair
contribution at a time of fiscal consolidation,” the commission
said in the statement.  “Even with the various reported plans that are being
worked on, even if we get as far as something being put out
there and announced, the span of time it’ll take between
announcement and implementation is very long,” said  David Mann ,
regional head of research for the Americas at Standard Chartered
Plc in New York.  The European Commission opposed ideas that are being
floated by some government officials to get banks to accept
bigger so-called haircuts on Greek debt holdings and doesn’t
want to have talks about any such attempt, an official said on
condition of anonymity because the deliberations are private.  Bailout Vote  Finland’s parliament approved the expansion of the 440
billion-euro European Financial Stability Facility, bringing to
nine the number of euro members to have ratified the mechanism.
An expanded role of the EFSF was agreed to by euro-zone members
on July 21 and must be ratified by all member states.  Brazil ’s real and Canada’s dollar were among the worst-
performing major currencies. The real fell 1.9 percent to 1.8408
per dollar and the Canadian dollar weakened 1.4 percent to
C$1.0335 per  U.S. dollar .  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB index of raw materials
lost 2.5 percent and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 2.1
percent.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said she’s waiting for a
report from a team of officials from the European Union,
 European Central Bank  and  International Monetary Fund  on
 Greece ’s progress before deciding whether a second financing
package for the country agreed on July 21 needs to be revised.  “We need to wait to see what the expert mission, the
troika, determines and what it will say in relation to whether
there needs to be new talks or not,” Merkel told Athens-based
state broadcaster NET in an interview.  Germany  still privately anticipates that the Mediterranean
nation will default on its debt as early as this year, Bild
reported Merkel as saying earlier at a meeting of Christian
Democratic lawmakers, citing unidentified participants.  Yen Haven  “The focus is still very much on matters in Europe and the
progress being made to resolve the debt crisis,” said  Gavin Friend , a markets strategist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in
 London . “The yen is finding support from the safe-haven bid.”  Japan ’s currency may climb to as strong as 75 per dollar
“within weeks” as investors continue to purchase the currency
as a hedge against financial market turmoil stemming from the
euro-area debt crisis, Friend said.  China ’s yuan climbed after the People’s Bank of China set
its daily reference rate at the strongest level since July 2005.
The nation’s consumer prices rose 6.2 percent in August from a
year earlier after a 6.5 percent increase in July.  “Today’s fixing reflects China’s determination to tame
inflation with a stronger currency,” said Edmond Law, deputy
head of foreign exchange at BWC Capital Markets in  Hong Kong .
“The inflation slowdown in August was matched by the yuan’s
gain for the same period. Yuan appreciation has proved useful in
reining in prices.”  The yuan strengthened to 6.3938 per dollar from 6.3992, the
biggest gain since Sept. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  