-- 
Euro Is ‘Burning Building,’ EU Has Too Much Power, Hague Tells Spectator

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-09-28T15:10:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/euro-is-burning-building-with-no-exits-hague-tells-spectator.html
U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said his 1998 comment that the euro area was “a burning
building with no exits” has been proved right and that member
countries will have to live with the consequences for decades.  Hague first described the euro in those terms when he was
leading the Conservative Party in opposition and Prime Minister
 Tony Blair  favored joining the single currency. In a 1998 speech
in Fontainebleau, near Paris, Hague warned that the single
currency could damage the stability of  Europe  by tying together
economies that were too different.  In an  interview with the Spectator magazine  to be published
tomorrow, the foreign secretary said the sovereign-debt crisis
in Greece and other euro-region nations shows he was right and
that the single currency “will be written about for centuries
as a kind of historical monument to collective folly.” His
comments reflect the U.K. government’s hostility to being
involved in any rescue and may rile other European ministers
trying to persuade their own voters to back bailout programs.  “I described the euro as a burning building with no exits
and so it has proved for some of the countries in it,” Hague
told the Spectator. His comments were confirmed by the Foreign
Office in  London . “Greeks or Italians or Portuguese have to
accept some very big changes in what happens in their country,
even bigger than if they weren’t in the euro, and Germans will
have to accept that they are going to subsidize those countries
for a long time to come really, for the rest of their
lifetimes.”  ‘Difficult to Leave’  In the interview, Hague continued the comparison. “You can
have burning buildings where they manage to put out the fire or
control it or get more room or something,” he said. “I might
take the analogy too far but the euro wasn’t built with exits so
it is very difficult to leave it.”  Former Polish Prime Minister  Jaroslaw Kaczynski , who’s
seeking to regain power in elections Oct. 9, said in an
interview two weeks ago that  Poland  shouldn’t aim to join the
euro area in the foreseeable future.  “It would only make our lives more difficult,” Kaczynski
said. “To a great extent the floating zloty saved us. Poland
will be in need of a shield like this for a long time to come.
Unfortunately we don’t have an opt-out clause from the euro.”  Recession Concerns  Experts from the European Commission,  European Central Bank 
and  International Monetary Fund  will return to Athens tomorrow
as officials race to put in place a package of measures aimed at
insulating the rest of the euro area from  Greece . Euro-area
finance ministers will hold an extra meeting about the country’s
finances in October amid international concerns that a default
could plunge the global economy into recession.  Greece won’t repay all of its debt and will have to leave
the euro area,  Otmar Issing , the ECB’s former chief economist,
was quoted as saying by Stern magazine in an interview published
today.  In his interview, Hague also made clear his party’s view
that Britain should scale back its involvement in the European
Union.  “The EU does have too much power,” he said. “I haven’t
changed that view since being in government, in fact if
anything, being in government has reinforced that view. There
should be powers that are returned to this country. I think we
should be clear in the  Conservative Party  that that is where we
are heading.”  While such moves may be blocked at present by the
Conservatives’ pro-European Liberal Democrat coalition partners,
Hague told the Spectator he viewed this as a possible dividing
line between the two parties in the next election, scheduled for
2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in Liverpool,  England , at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 