-- 
Euro Is Beyond Rescue in Debt Crisis, Szalay-Berzeviczy Says

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-09-28T17:13:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/euro-is-beyond-rescue-unicredit-s-szalay-berzeviczy-says.html
The euro is “practically dead”
and  Europe  faces a financial earthquake from a Greek default,
according to Attila Szalay-Berzeviczy, global head of securities
services at Italy’s biggest lender  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)   “The euro is beyond rescue,” Szalay-Berzeviczy said in an
opinion piece for  index.hu. , a Hungarian news portal, which he
signed as former chairman of the Budapest Stock Exchange. “The
only remaining question is how many days the hopeless rearguard
action of European governments and the  European Central Bank  can
keep up Greece’s spirits.”  The article described a “worst-case scenario,” he said in
a telephone interview from Budapest today. Szalay-Berzeviczy’s
“are his own personal view and do not reflect the position of
the company,” Claudia Bresgen, a spokeswoman at UniCredit in
Munich,  Germany , said by e-mail.  A Greek default will trigger an immediate “magnitude 10”
earthquake across Europe, he predicted. Holders of Greek
 government bonds  will have to write off their entire investment,
the southern European nation will stop paying salaries and
pensions and automated teller machines in the country will empty
“within minutes,” Szalay-Berzeviczy wrote.  The impact of a Greek default will “rapidly” spread
across the continent, possibly prompting a run on the “weaker”
banks of “weaker” countries, Szalay-Berzeviczy said in the
article. “The panic escalating this way may sweep across Europe
in a self-fulfilling fashion, leading to the breakup of the euro
area.”  ‘One Scenario Among Many’  “It’s one scenario among many, one which may lead to the
breakup of the euro area via a banking crisis,” he said in the
interview. “This can still be averted. It primarily depends on
the Germans, and secondly on European citizens, especially on
how much the Greek population can tolerate.”  The euro strengthened versus most of its 16 major
counterparts, advancing to a one-week high against the dollar,
as European leaders signaled they will do what is necessary to
aid debt-strapped regional nations. The European Union proposed
a financial-transactions tax to take effect in 2014 and
 Finland ’s parliament approved an expansion to the region’s
rescue fund.  The 17-nation currency appreciated as much as 0.8 percent
to $1.3690, the strongest intraday level since Sept. 21, before
trading at $1.3613 as of 9:20 a.m. in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  