-- 
Ex-CME Software Engineer Yang Indicted for Theft of Trade Secrets

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-09-28T22:27:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/ex-cme-software-engineer-yang-indicted-for-theft-of-trade-secrets.html
A former senior software engineer
for  CME Group Inc. (CME)  was charged with allegedly stealing source
code from the  Chicago  company while at the same time pursuing
plans to improve an electronic-trading exchange in China.  Chunlai Yang, who was arrested in July, was charged with
two counts of theft of trade secrets in an indictment by a
federal grand jury returned today, the U.S. Justice Department
said. Yang 48, is free on a $500,000 bond, the U.S. said. No
arraignment date has been set.  The U.S. claims Yang downloaded more than 1,000 computer
files containing CME computer source code from December 8, 2010,
to June 30, 2011, related to the company’s Globex electronic
trading platform. The U.S. alleged Yang transferred the files to
his home computer via a flash drive and negotiated to provide
source code to the Zhangjiagang,  China , chemical electronic
trading exchange.  “CME Group brought this matter to the attention of federal
authorities and fully cooperated with the investigation,”
Patrick J. Fitzgerald, U.S. Attorney in Chicago, said in a
statement. “This case is an excellent example of how law
enforcement and corporations can work together to protect trade
secrets.”  Two Partners  Yang will plead not guilty, his attorney, Edward Genson,
said in a telephone interview today.  “He was not involved in downloading any documents other
than for work use,” Genson said.  The U.S. claims that Yang was involved in developing with
two partners a business called Gateway, which would increase the
trading volume at the Zhangjiagang exchange.  “Defendant Yang expected that Gateway would provide the
Zhangjiagang Exchange with technology to allow for high trading
volume, high trading speeds, and multiple trading functions,”
according to the indictment. “Yang was to become Gateway’s
president.”  These claims are “specious,” Genson said. “There was a
business but it involved real estate.” The source codes at CME
were “incompatible for use in China,” he said.  Each count of theft of  trade secrets  carries a maximum
penalty of 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine, the U.S.
said.  The case is U.S. v. Yang, 11-CR-458, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan ,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 