-- 
Ex-Secret Service Official Accused of Attempted Foreign Bribery at Trial

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-28T19:38:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/ex-secret-service-official-accused-of-attempted-foreign-bribery-at-trial.html
A former Secret Service official is
standing trial with five other security-company executives in
the first prosecution of alleged foreign bribery based on a
government sting operation run inside the U.S.  R. Patrick Caldwell, former chief executive officer of
 Protective Products of America Inc. (PPAFQ)  and an ex-deputy assistant
director at the Secret Service, is accused of joining an illegal
business deal by agreeing to make payments to an FBI agent
posing as a representative of the west African country of Gabon,
prosecutors said today as trial began in federal court in
Washington.  “Most corrupt deals are never discovered by  law
enforcement , but this time someone was watching and someone was
recording the deal -- the FBI,” Laura Perkins, a  Justice
Department  trial attorney, told the jury.  The trial that opened today is the second in a 22-defendant
kickback conspiracy case stemming from a fake $15 million
weapons deal. It’s the biggest U.S. prosecution of individuals
accused of violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA.
A trial of four others arrested in the sting ended in a mistrial
in July after a jury failed to agree on a verdict.  The other defendants in the trial are John Mushriqui, Jeana
Mushriqui, Stephen Giordanella, John Godsey and Marc Morales.
Each is charged with one count of conspiracy and all except
Giordanella also face two to five counts of bribery. The FCPA
conspiracy and bribery charges carry maximum five-year prison
sentences.  All six have pleaded not guilty to the charges.  Undercover Techniques  Assistant U.S. Attorney General  Lanny Breuer , who oversees
the Justice Department’s criminal division, has cited the Gabon
case, along with the Galleon Group LLC insider-trading probe, as
examples of the government’s readiness to use wiretaps and other
undercover techniques traditionally employed against organized
crime to pursue white-collar criminals.  Prosecutors accused the defendants of seeking to funnel
payments to Gabon’s defense minister in exchange for contracts
to provide ammunition, bulletproof vests and body armor for the
country’s presidential guard.  The charges stem from a three-year investigation involving
an informant who pleaded guilty in an earlier bribery case,
recorded phone calls and videotaped meetings with agents of the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  posing as representatives of
Gabon, sub-Saharan  Africa ’s fifth-biggest oil producer.  Defense Minister  The government said the defendants agreed to pay a
$3 million commission for the business, half of which they were
told would be paid to the defense minister.  Three of the 22 defendants pleaded guilty and agreed to
cooperate. U.S. District Judge Richard Leon grouped the
remaining 19 defendants into four trials.  The government’s case was put together through Richard Bistrong, a former executive from Armor Holdings Inc. He pleaded
guilty last year to bribing officials of the  United Nations  and
the Netherlands to obtain contracts for body armor and pepper
spray, according to court papers.  Bistrong identified possible targets for the government,
according to court papers. Working with the FBI, he recorded
phone and face-to-face meetings with the defendants. He also
introduced them to Pascal Latour, an FBI agent posing as a
representative of Gabon’s defense minister.  ‘Highly Motivated’  “Bistrong was highly motivated, thinking the more people
he could get into this phony deal, the less time he would have
to spend in prison,” David Krakoff, a lawyer for John
Mushriqui, told jurors today.  The FBI allowed Bistrong to remain in business during its
investigation and make more than $1.2 million while also working
as an informant, said Krakoff, a partner at BuckleySandler in
 Washington .  “This is the man the government says you must trust in
this case,” Krakoff said.  Krakoff told jurors that his client thought the Gabon
commission was hatched by Bistrong to get additional money for
himself from the deal.  Bistrong wasn’t called to the witness stand in the first
trial.  The case is U.S. v. Goncalves, 09-cr-00335, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  