-- 
Texas Economy That Fueled Perry Bid to Slow, Estimator Says

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-28T16:42:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/texas-economy-that-fueled-perry-s-bid-is-stalling-state-estimator-says.html
The Texas economy, which helped
fuel Governor  Rick Perry ’s bid for the Republican presidential
nomination, is stalling as sales-tax receipts grow more slowly,
the state’s chief revenue estimator said.  Next year “won’t be a great recovery,” John Heleman, who
works in the office of Comptroller Susan Combs, a Republican,
told the House Ways and Means Committee in Austin today. “It’s
still going to be flat.”  Texas has led the U.S. in employment growth, adding 406,000
jobs since December 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. While Perry has cited the gains on the campaign
trail, opponents including former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney  have faulted the state for having the most minimum-wage
jobs and the lowest health-insurance coverage rate in the U.S.  Sales-tax receipts in  Texas  grew by 9.4 percent in the year
ended Aug. 31 as consumers increased spending and oil and gas
companies bought more drilling equipment, Heleman said. Next
year, though, receipts in the second-most populous state will
rise “at a substantially lower growth rate,” he said, without
mentioning a specific number.  Texas’s sales-tax receipts have declined in four of the
past 10 fiscal years, Heleman said, blaming volatile economic
conditions.  While the U.S. added no jobs in August, Texas lost about
1,300, Heleman said, citing U.S. Labor Department statistics.
The state has recovered about 90 percent of the jobs lost during
the recession that ended in June 2009, compared with about 20
percent for the U.S. overall, he said.  Economic activity in Texas rose for a fourth consecutive
month in June with employment approaching 2008 peak levels,
before the effects of the recession took hold, Robert Dye, chief
economist at  Comerica Inc. (CMA)  in  Dallas , said in an August report.  “Job growth, increased drilling activity, firm trade and
retail sales have contributed to a solid three quarters of
economic growth in Texas,” Dye said in the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  