-- 
Mexico Peso Tumbles as Europe Concern Overshadows Growth Data

-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 
2011-09-28T21:35:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/mexico-peso-drops-as-investors-await-final-votes-on-european-rescue-fund.html
Mexico’s peso tumbled from a one-
week high as concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis blunted a report
that showed  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy expanded more
than forecast in July.  The peso weakened 1.4 percent to 13.5563 per  U.S. dollar  at
5 p.m. New York time, from 13.3658 yesterday. The currency has
dropped 8.8 percent this year, second most among major Latin
American currencies tracked by Bloomberg after  Brazil ’s real.  Italian and Spanish financial market regulators extended
bans on short selling of financial shares that were introduced
last month in a bid to stem market volatility. Concern over
Europe is overshadowing data that Mexico’s national statistics
agency released today that showed the economy grew 3.74 percent
in July from a year earlier, more than the 3.65 percent median
forecast of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, according to
Jorge Perez-Duarte, managing director for emerging-market
foreign exchange at TD Securities Inc. in Toronto.  “It’s all about the global backdrop right now,” he said
by phone. “Everything is following U.S. equities and this was
triggered by the announcement by European authorities that
they’re going to extend the short selling ban.”  U.S. stocks fell today as an official said the European
Commission is resisting a push to impose bigger writedowns on
banks’ holdings of Greek government debt than those agreed on at
a July 21 summit. The commission opposes ideas that are being
floated by some government officials to get banks to accept
bigger so-called haircuts and doesn’t want to have talks about
any such attempt, the official said on condition of anonymity
because the deliberations are private.  Dollar Options  Traders didn’t trigger any of the dollar options available
today, the central bank said on its website. The bank has been
buying as much as $600 million through the options every month
since March 2010 to bolster foreign reserves. They allow the
central bank to accumulate dollars, insuring against outflows of
capital and limiting the peso’s appreciation.  The yield on  Mexico ’s benchmark peso-denominated bond due
in 2024 rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 6.76
percent, according to data from Banco Santander SA. The price of
the security fell 0.14 centavo to 128.24 centavos per peso.  Mexico swapped 3.35 billion pesos ($248 million) of fixed-
rate debt today, the central bank said on its website. Investors
handed over fixed-rate bonds due in June 2015 and December 2016
for debt due in June 2016, the central bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  