-- 
Finland Wants Permanent Rescue Mechanism in Place Next Year

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-09-29T10:37:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/faster-esm-implementation-wouldn-t-cause-panic-katainen-says.html
Finland  wants  Europe ’s permanent
crisis management facility to start a year earlier than first
envisaged to send a “clear message” to private investors that
they need to share losses, Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said.  Implementing the European Stability Mechanism in 2012 is
“suitable” for Finland, he said yesterday in a phone interview
in Helsinki. “We’re ready to implement new legislation if that
is the case. We have already accepted the principle of the ESM
and we think that it’s only good if we get the new mechanism in
place as soon as possible.”  Finland, one of six AAA rated nations in the 17-member euro
area, yesterday approved the expanded scope of a temporary
rescue fund, the European Financial Stability Facility, becoming
the ninth country in the bloc to ratify the mechanism.  Germany ’s
lower house backed the EFSF today.  Finland hasn’t stepped away from its demands for collateral
in exchange for its commitment to new Greek loans and has pushed
for burden sharing as a cornerstone of future bailouts. European
Commission President Jose Barroso yesterday also called for
faster implementation of the ESM.  Investors shouldn’t be allowed to delude themselves on the
risks entailed in holding sovereign bonds, Katainen said.  “There is also an element which we find crucial in
encouraging countries to keep their economic situation
balanced,” he said. “That’s why private sector involvement is
a crucial part of the ESM and everybody knows it’s part of the
structures so it shouldn’t be news for anybody.”  Under Pressure  European officials are under pressure to do more to contain
the region’s 18-month debt crisis as Greece teeters on the brink
of default. Governments must implement austerity measures as
soon as possible and not bow to pressure as markets test the
resolve of politicians in tackling the crisis, Katainen said.  “I’m worried about the situation,” he said. “It’s very
grave. No one can solve the problem if European governments
can’t do it.”  Due to be set up in mid-2013, the permanent fund will wield
a 500 billion-euro ($680 billion) war chest that could be used
more flexibly than the current guarantee-based interim backstop
and will include provisions for managing a sovereign default. As
Europe waits for the ESM to become effective, the EFSF’s
enhanced powers will allow it to recapitalize banks, buy bonds
in the secondary market and offer precautionary credit lines.  ECB Bond Purchases  The  European Central Bank  has acted “productively” in
seeking to quell the crisis as liquidity in the  interbank market 
remains a risk, Katainen said. ECB purchases of bonds from the
euro area’s most indebted nations doesn’t mean it’s “becoming a
‘bad bank,’” he said.  “Of course everyone is worried when public money is
used,” he said. The ECB has acted “responsibly” and has
“managed to stabilize the situation.”  The Frankfurt-based central bank yesterday said it will
lend banks 140.6 billion euros for three months to ease tension
in the money markets. Financial institutions are wary of lending
to each other after the debt crisis fueled concern that some
governments may struggle to refinance their debts, prompting
investors to shun bonds from nations including Greece, Italy and
 Spain .  Transactions Tax  Finland is also ready to consider a Europe-wide financial
transactions tax, Katainen said, adding he preferred a global
model. The level of the tax must be kept “moderate” to avoid
“negative side-effects,” he said.  The European Union yesterday proposed a financial
transactions tax that would take effect in 2014 and raise about
57 billion euros a year, prompting calls from the U.K. to
refrain from such measures unless they are global.  The plan would set minimum tax rates for financial
transactions throughout the 27-nation EU, the bloc’s Brussels-
based executive said. The proposal would apply a tax of 0.1
percent on trading of stocks and bonds, with a 0.01 percent rate
for derivatives contracts.  Katainen also called for a “strong” commission to monitor
jointly agreed rules “more carefully.” One such measure would
be increasing the powers of EU Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn , and making him the chair of the group of
euro-area finance ministers after  Jean-Claude Juncker , he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  