-- 
Fed in Banks’ Wheelhouse May Fuel Bond Shift, Deutsche Bank Says

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-09-28T19:26:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/fed-in-banks-wheelhouse-may-fuel-bond-shift-deutsche-bank-says.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s decision to
resume purchases of government-backed mortgage securities may
help push banks to expand the types of bonds they buy, according
to  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   U.S. commercial banks’ holdings of home-loan bonds
guaranteed by  Fannie Mae ,  Freddie Mac  and Ginnie Mae have
swelled $104 billion this year to a record $1.21 trillion,
according to Fed data. Their total amount of securities climbed
$58 billion to $2.48 trillion amid sluggish bank lending.  Banks are considering investments outside their traditional
“wheelhouse” of agency mortgage bonds, including securities
backed by commercial mortgages, subprime auto debt and company
loans, Deutsche Bank analyst Steven Abrahams wrote today in a
report, citing meetings he’s had with lenders in the past week.
By lowering mortgage-bond yields, the Fed’s plan to reinvest
proceeds from the $1 trillion of housing debt it holds into new
home-loan securities may fuel buying of riskier debt with higher
yields, he wrote.  “It’s hard to say that there’s some huge ‘student body
left’ movement to suddenly jump into credit risk, but there’s
certainly more anecdotal evidence it’s happening,” Abrahams,
Deutsche Bank’s New York-based securitization-research head,
said in a telephone interview, using a college football term.  Abrahams noted Fed policy makers had been signaling they
wanted to rid the central bank’s balance sheet of its
unconventional mortgage-bond holdings as quickly as possible. He
also joins analysts at Credit Suisse Group AG and CRT Capital
Group LLC in saying the Fed may have decided to switch tactics
to push banks to lend. The central bank disclosed the plan on
Sept. 21.  Weak Demand  Weak demand among borrowers for loans may restrain growth,
Abrahams said. Loans and leases owned by banks have gained $41.8
billion this year to $6.8 trillion, driven by increases in
commercial and industrial holdings, according to Fed data as of
Sept. 14.  Yields on traditional types of bank investments in the
agency mortgage-bond market have fallen to about 2 percent for
some debt and less than 1 percent for shorter-duration
securities, amid the Fed’s policies,  Europe ’s debt crisis and
the U.S.’s sluggish economy, according to the Deutsche Bank
report.  The bonds include new 15-year pass-through securities and
short-duration classes of collateralized mortgage obligations.  Banks of all sizes may buy other types of securities,
though the largest banks would find it more difficult to acquire
blocks of debt large enough relative to their sizes, he said.  -- Editors: Pierre Paulden, Alan Goldstein  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  