-- 
Fed’s Hoenig Says Operation Twist Adds to Risk of Economic ‘Imbalances’

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H a y s
-- 
2011-09-28T18:27:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/fed-s-hoenig-says-operation-twist-risks-creating-imbalances-in-economy.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City
President  Thomas Hoenig  said the Fed’s plan to push down long-
term interest rates may produce accidental outcomes and policy
makers risk creating “imbalances” in the economy.  “I have real concerns about trying to fine-tune and micro-
manage the economy when monetary policy is a blunt tool,” he
said today in an interview with Bloomberg Radio’s “The Hays
Advantage” with  Kathleen Hays . Efforts to “redefine yield
curves” may “introduce new complexities and risk new
unintended consequences,” he said.  Hoenig steps down as the central bank’s longest-serving
policy maker this week, after serving as a regional chief since
1991. The  Federal Open Market Committee  is debating how to jump-
start the U.S. economic recovery, with three members casting
dissents at each of the past two meetings and posing the most
opposition in almost 19 years.  “We risk further imbalances,” said Hoenig, 65, who
doesn’t vote on the FOMC this year. “We ought to be very, very
humble in our expectations of what we can do with this
instrument we call monetary policy.”  Data released this week show confidence among U.S.
consumers stagnating near a two-year low this month, and
property values in 20 U.S. cities falling 4.1 percent in July
from a year earlier. By contrast, orders for U.S. capital goods
climbed in August by the most in three months, a sign business
investment continues to support the recovery, according to a
Commerce Department report today.  Operation Twist  Under the plan announced last week, the central bank will
replace $400 billion of short-term debt in its portfolio with
longer-term Treasuries maturing in six to 30 years, aiming to
reduce borrowing costs and spur the recovery of the world’s
largest economy. The plan, dubbed Operation Twist by economists
and announced after policy makers’ Sept. 20-21 meeting in
 Washington , gets its name from a similar action in 1961.  Hoenig’s concerns about Operation Twist are shared by
colleagues such as Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher , who said
yesterday that the move may prove ineffective and hurt job
creation. Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  said yesterday
that he is ‘very supportive” of the program.  The Kansas City Fed chief rejected an idea posed by Chicago
Fed President  Charles Evans , who suggested policy makers
tolerate higher inflation for some time in order to bring down
unemployment.  “That is a terrible policy,” Hoenig said. “I just can’t
believe that we would think that as economists.”  ‘Exceptionally Low’  As a voting member of the FOMC last year, Hoenig dissented
against the Fed’s pledge to keep rates “exceptionally low” for
“an extended period,” the decision to reinvest proceeds from
maturing mortgage-backed securities, and a $600 billion round of
bond purchases. His eight straight dissents tied former Governor
Henry Wallich’s record in 1980 for most dissents in a single
year.  The Kansas City Fed named Esther George, its No. 2
official, this month to succeed Hoenig. She is scheduled to vote
on monetary policy in 2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hays in New York at 
 khays4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  