-- 
Fed Should Pair Its New Openness With Governance Reform: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-28T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/fed-should-pair-its-new-openness-with-governance-reform-in-districts-view.html
In a short time, the U.S. Federal
Reserve, once remote and unassailable, has become one of the
nation’s most politicized federal agencies.  Republican presidential candidate  Rick Perry  has denounced
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke . Some Democrats want to reduce the
influence of Fed hawks who argue for tougher action against
inflation. Last year, 30 senators voted against confirming
Bernanke for a second term -- the most “no” votes in history.
And during the debate over the Dodd-Frank legislation, the Fed
had to fight to retain its authority over state-chartered banks
and fend off attempts to subject policy decisions to regular
audits.  To safeguard its independence and protect its credibility,
the Fed is becoming far more open, as shown by Caroline Salas
Gage’s story in November’s  issue  of Bloomberg Markets. It now
discloses its monetary-policy deliberations more swiftly. Top
officials, including New York Fed President William C. Dudley,
travel more, share perspectives in public speeches and hear out
attendees’ concerns. Bernanke even holds news conferences.  So far, so good. But the Fed can do more. To this end, the
central bank should re-examine its longtime governance structure
with an eye to putting more distance between itself and the
banks it oversees.  The 12 regional Fed banks currently have nine-member boards
that include three bankers from those districts. It’s a conflict
for these bankers to be subject to Fed supervision while also
acting as a part of the Fed. Moreover, those three bankers
select three other nonbankers to join them on the regional Fed
boards, making it likely that the bankers will exercise a great
deal of influence over their choices. Those nonbankers then have
a major role, along with the Fed board of governors in
 Washington , in choosing their regional Fed presidents.  A better arrangement would be to fill those boards with
independent directors while setting up an advisory board of
bankers that could keep up a dialogue with the Fed but not have
any governing authority.  U.S. Representative  Barney Frank , a Massachusetts Democrat,
wants to go a step further and tinker with the  Federal Open
Market Committee , the Fed panel that sets monetary policy. Frank
wants to dislodge the heads of five regional Fed banks,
including the New York Fed, from their FOMC seats.  Some regional presidents worry too much about inflation and
not enough about unemployment for the congressman’s tastes. He’d
rather see their seats filled with presidential nominees.  Frank’s case is weak. The FOMC has done a good job of
blending regional perspectives into a coherent national policy.
The majority of the panel’s seats already are held by Fed
governors nominated by the president and confirmed by the
Senate.  Besides, Senate confirmations have become so snarled lately
that the lawmaker’s plan could result in drawn-out vacancies.
The Fed should continue its campaign to make itself more
accountable and push for another round of governance reforms
that would rid the regional banks of conflicts -- thereby making
Frank’s proposals unnecessary.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 