-- 
Rosengren Backs Efforts to Spur Refinancing, GDP Growth

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-09-28T14:46:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/fed-s-rosengren-backs-efforts-to-spur-refinancing-gdp-growth.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Boston
President  Eric Rosengren  called for more government efforts to
help homeowners refinance their mortgages while saying the Fed’s
plan to buy longer-term securities will probably spur growth.  Consumption will rise and gross domestic product will
expand after more borrowers refinance and reduce their mortgage
payments, Rosengren said today in a speech in  Stockholm .
“Getting more money into the hands of homeowners who would
spend it could help to fuel GDP growth,” he said.  The central bank decided last week to purchase $400 billion
of longer-term Treasuries and sell $400 billion of short-term
securities in a move known as Operation Twist after a similar
effort in the 1961. Rosengren said he was “very supportive” of
the program. He also endorsed a related plan to reinvest
maturing housing debt into agency mortgage-backed securities,
which he said should also help revive the real estate market.  Hours earlier,  Dallas  Fed President  Richard Fisher  said the
plan to cut longer-term interest rates risks proving ineffective
and may hurt  job creation . It was “a strategic decision where I
did not feel the benefits outweighed what I perceived to be the
costs,” Fisher said yesterday in a speech in Dallas.  The average rate on a 30-year fixed rate mortgage was a
record low 4.09 percent as of last week, according to an index
from  Freddie Mac , down from 5.05 percent earlier in the year.
Although borrowing costs are low,  home prices  fell 4.1 percent
from a year earlier in July, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller
index of property values in 20 cities, released yesterday.  ‘Closely Monitor’  “The  Federal Reserve  should continue to closely monitor
spreads between mortgage and Treasury yields and consider taking
action if that spread widens significantly,” Rosengren said at
the Swedbank Economic Outlook Seminar.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of stocks fell 0.2 percent
to 1,173.57 at 10:30 a.m. in New York trading. Yields on 10-year
Treasury notes rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 2 percent.  Damage to the housing market is hindering the efficacy of
monetary policy, he said.  “Falling home prices have not only impaired the capital of
many financial institutions, but in a very real sense have
disrupted the transmission of monetary policy,” Rosengren said.
He called for a stepped up role for the government-owned
mortgage-finance companies  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac, also
known as government-sponsored enterprises or GSEs.  “There should be strong encouragement for the GSEs to
focus on the housing recovery so home buyers and those that
already have loans can fully benefit from the lower  interest
rates  generated by our monetary policy action,” Rosengren said.  ‘Larger Role’  “Given that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are currently under
conservatorship by the U.S. government, I believe they should
play a larger role in achieving the public policy goals inherent
in addressing these housing-market problems,” he said.  Rosengren called for steps to help borrowers refinance even
if their mortgages exceed the value of their homes. The
government should also try to reduce the supply of vacant homes
and clarify its policy toward housing, he said.  Though hampered, monetary policy should still be used to
help reduce unemployment, he said.  “While monetary policy cannot fully offset the many
problems stemming from the recession, it can certainly mitigate
some of the effects,” Rosengren said.  Full Employment  “A policy action that, for instance, reduces the
 unemployment rate  by half a percent over time will not return
the economy to full employment, of course, but will still mean
750,000 jobs that would not have been created in the absence of
the action,” he said.  “With unemployment at 9.1 percent and with inflation in
the medium term expected to remain below 2 percent, monetary and
fiscal policies should be focused on returning the economy to
full employment,” he said.  Rosengren, 54, joined the Boston Fed as an economist in
1985 and became its president in 2007. Fed presidents rotate
voting on monetary policy, with Rosengren next voting in 2013.  At the Fed’s December 2007 meeting, Rosengren became the
only currently serving policy maker to dissent from an FOMC
decision in favor of more accommodative policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  