-- 
Felon Forecaster Blogs on Economic Cycles

-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 
2011-09-28T17:21:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/felon-forecaster-blogs-on-8-6-year-economic-cycles-after-11-years-in-jail.html
Martin Armstrong is a self-taught
economist who is starting to build an Internet following from an
almost-empty office across the street from Philadelphia  City
Hall . He’s also an unrepentant felon who spent 11 years in
prison for cheating investors out of $700 million and hiding $15
million in assets from regulators.  In Armstrong’s view of the world, where boom-bust cycles
occur like clockwork every 8.6 years, what matters is his record
as a forecaster, not as a criminal. He called Russia’s financial
collapse in 1998, using a model that also pointed to a peak just
before the Japanese stock market crashed in 1989. These days, as
the European sovereign-debt crisis roils markets worldwide, he
reminds readers of his October 1997 prediction that the creation
of the euro “will merely transform currency speculation into
bond speculation,” leading to the system’s eventual collapse.  “The stuff I wrote about in ‘97 is all coming true,’’ he
said in an interview, the first since being released from jail
in March. Armstrong says on a website on which he writes that
his 1999 indictment stemmed from ‘‘wild and unfounded
allegations related to his business in  Japan .’’  That’s not the view of prosecutors, who said he ran one of
the largest Ponzi schemes in history, or of three federal
judges, who called him a con artist or cheat. Economists dismiss
his cycle theory.  ‘‘His 8.6-year cycle perhaps roughly fits the timing of the
last three U.S. recessions but that’s about it,” said Karel
Mertens, a professor of economics at  Cornell University  in
Ithaca, New York, who has studied business cycles. “It’s
comparable to numerology.”  Web Commentaries  Armstrong, 61, isn’t deterred by the criticism. After
banging out  commentaries  on a typewriter in his cell, he’s now
publishing online and attracting readers interested in his
research on capital flows and currency debasement spanning
centuries.  He provided a report from Google Analytics showing that the
economics projection page of martinarmstrong.org got more than
200,000 views last month. Google Inc., which provides the
reports only to website owners, declined to verify the numbers.  “He’s a genius,” said Michael Krieger, a former
commodities analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York
who now manages his own money. “He would have a line of people
all over the world willing to pay a lot of money to work with
him.”  Occasional Reader Rogers  Jim Rogers , a commodities investor and chairman of
Singapore-based Rogers Holdings, said he reads Armstrong
occasionally for his “historical knowledge and insight,”
though he doesn’t pay attention to his cycle theories.  “You can be the most brilliant tactical trader, but if you
don’t understand the big picture, it’s the noise before the big
crash,” said Simon Mikhailovich, co-founder of Eidesis Capital
LLC, a New York-based firm that invests in distressed assets.
“That’s why people read Armstrong.”  Armstrong’s rap sheet may hinder his efforts to find paying
clients for his global economics advice. Three traders who read
his reports and asked not to be named said their current
employers wouldn’t want to be associated with a convicted felon
no matter how useful his theories.  A New Jersey native who didn’t graduate from college,
Armstrong said he built a theory of “confidence cycles” when
he discovered in the 1970s that financial panics from 1683 to
1907 were separated by 3,141 days on average. He later realized
that number was equal to 1,000 times pi, whose value is the
ratio of any circle’s circumference to its diameter.  Rome  to 1930s  By the late 1990s, Armstrong was running his firm,
Princeton Economics International Ltd., out of an antiquities-
filled office overlooking  Tokyo ’s Imperial Palace where, he
said, he used charts of financial panics from ancient Rome to
the Great Depression to trade metals, stocks and currencies.  “He was pretty highly regarded,” said  Shane Oliver , the
Sydney-based head of investment strategy at AMP Capital
Investors Ltd., which has almost $100 billion under management.
“His cycle analysis was pretty closely followed around the
world.”  In 1999, U.S. prosecutors accused Armstrong of cheating
Japanese corporate investors by hiding losses. Regulators also
sued him and his Princeton, New Jersey-based firm for fraud. A
judge later jailed him for contempt after he refused to
surrender 102 gold bars, 699 gold coins, rare coins, an ancient
bust of  Julius Caesar  and a computer once stored in his home.  His failure to surrender the assets, which he said he’d
given away, led to the longest jailing ever for civil contempt
in a federal white-collar case. Armstrong spent seven years in a
Manhattan prison that houses drug dealers and terrorists,
surviving an attack that left him hospitalized.  Guilty Plea  Armstrong pleaded guilty in 2006 to conspiracy for lying to
investors about his trading record and the value of assets he
held, and spent five more years in a  New Jersey  prison camp
before being released to his home on March 8. Republic
Securities, now a unit of HSBC Holdings Plc, also pleaded
guilty, admitting it helped Armstrong swindle clients. It paid
$569 million in restitution. Two ex-Republic employees and a
former Armstrong worker pleaded guilty as well.  Tancred Schiavoni, a partner at law firm  O’Melveny & Myers
LLP  who was the court-appointed receiver for Armstrong’s firm,
said he believes Armstrong kept the gold.  “He would love to hold a press conference in  Switzerland 
with you taking a picture of him having just dug up the gold
bars and thumbing his nose at the whole world,” Schiavoni said.  Dollar Collapse Seen  Armstrong said his study of Greek currency debasement shows
the  U.S. dollar  is headed for collapse, while his model of
confidence cycles suggests that the debt crisis will worsen over
the next 4.3 years.  “The play never changes,” said Armstrong, now goateed and
15 pounds heavier than when he was jailed. “The actors do.”  Armstrong lives with family in southern New Jersey. Still
on probation, he said he’s doing legal research for lawyers,
fielding book proposals, readying a seminar, weighing a
consulting offer from a European government and planning to meet
with U.S. Congressional officials. He won’t identify the
lawyers, officials or foreign government so as not to “drag
them” into his case. His seminar, scheduled for early December,
has more than 150 registrants, he said. Filmmaker  Marcus Vetter 
said shooting of a documentary on Armstrong will begin in
November.  “I’ve got some interesting offers from different overseas
operators,” Armstrong said. “Money is one of the least things
I’ve been worried about.”  ‘Don’t Owe Anything’  Armstrong says he hopes to someday overturn his conviction
and is now seeking to reverse an order by the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission barring him from the securities
industry. The government forced him to plead guilty, he says, by
jailing him for so long on civil contempt charges, and the
U.S. Supreme Court has blocked regulators from suing over
overseas conduct. He says he can’t be liable for fraud or running
a Ponzi scheme because he wasn’t acting as a  money manager .  Judith Burns, an SEC spokeswoman in  Washington , and Carly
Sullivan, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in  New
York , declined to comment.  Gold cost $285 per ounce on Jan. 14, 2000, when Armstrong
was jailed, and $1,652.50 yesterday. Armstrong shook his head
when asked if he has the missing bullion.  Besides, he said, it doesn’t matter if he did have the
treasure because his investors have recovered their losses from
Republic and Princeton’s receiver. Investors recovered a
“significant” amount of their out-of-pocket expenses, the
receiver said in court papers.  “I don’t owe anything,” Armstrong said. “Even if they
were mine, I could do anything I wanted with them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 