-- 
FIFA Looks at Soccer Fund Run by Ex-Chelsea Head Kenyon, Ronaldo’s Agent

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-09-29T16:12:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/fifa-probes-soccer-investment-fund-run-by-ex-chelsea-ceo-ronaldo-s-agent.html
Soccer’s ruling body  is examining
an investment fund set up by former Chelsea Chief Executive
Officer Peter Kenyon to see if it violates the sport’s rules,
according to a FIFA official who declined to be identified.  The fund, which has invested in the future transfer value
of about 15 players, is a venture between Kenyon’s talent-agency
employer  Creative Artists Agency Inc.  and Gestifute SA. Some of
the players are managed by Gestifute, which handles  Cristiano Ronaldo ’s business, Kenyon said.  The arrangement may be a conflict of interest because
Gestifute could seek transfers for its clients that give the
fund a greater return, according to Jose Maria Gay, a Barcelona
University professor who writes an annual report on soccer
finance. Kenyon said the fund’s managers are “very conscious”
not to influence trades, which would be a breach of FIFA rules.  “We’ve been aware of conflict and we’ve managed that
conflict,” Kenyon said in an interview. “I’m confident that
we’re operating within the guidelines of the football governing
bodies and the financial bodies.”  Los Angeles-based CAA, which represents actors including
 George Clooney , branched into sports in 2006 and formed a
alliance with Porto, Portugal-based Gestifute in 2008. They
control the Dublin-based fund, Quality Football Ireland Ltd.,
through trusts in  Jersey  for tax reasons, Kenyon said. Quality
Sports Jersey GP Ltd. is co-owned by CAA Sports International
LLC and Gestifute International Ltd., according to a Feb. 15
filing in Jersey in the  English Channel .  ‘On the Carry’  Kenyon said that the Jersey filing was for “regulatory”
reasons and doesn’t mean Gestifute has joint ownership of the
business. Jorge Mendes, Gestifute’s managing director who
represents Ronaldo, is paid as an adviser to the fund and
his income is based “on the carry,” or when a player is sold,
Kenyon said. Mendes said in a statement on his company’s website
he doesn’t have the power to make decisions in the venture.  The fund has raised money from more than 20 “high net
worth individuals” since last year, Kenyon said, adding the
minimum investment is $250,000. Typically, the fund’s managers
buy a share in the future transfer rights of a player aged 18 to
23 from a team for $1 million and shares any profit when he is
sold to another club.  They acquired the rights of seven players from Sporting
Lisbon and at least one from  Turkey ’s Besiktas, according to
team filings. FIFA can ban offending teams from the transfer
market, block sales and suspend players and agents should third
parties influence transfers.  Mendes faces conflict of interest because he is in a
position to influence transfer fees, according to Gay.  “It really raises questions about who is setting the
market price,” Gay said.  Ronaldo Move  Mendes brokered Ronaldo’s record $120 million move to Real
Madrid from Manchester United in 2009. Gestifute International
director Luis Correia declined to comment or make Mendes, his
uncle, available for interview.  Mendes’s career shows “he hasn’t made money by moving
players on,” Kenyon said. “If you look at his roster, he’s
developed players in conjunction with” their clubs, Kenyon
added. Ronaldo spent six years at  Manchester United  before
joining Real. The fund doesn’t own a share in Ronaldo’s transfer
rights.  The English Premier League banned third-party ownership of
transfer rights after it complicated  Argentina  forward  Carlos Tevez ’s 2007 move to Manchester United. In Portugal, Turkey and
Spain such ownership is becoming more common as banks rein in
credit and clubs struggle to raise funds, Gay said.  It’s potentially lucrative: Ronaldo’s fee increased six-
fold in the six years through 2009. At the same time, it’s a
“high risk” strategy because players get injured or lose form,
Gregor Reiter, director of the German players’ agent
association, said.  “If you invest in 20 players, for 19 of them you’re
probably not going to see any return,” Reiter said in an
interview. “Not everyone is Cristiano Ronaldo.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net 
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  