-- 
Finland Will Approve Europe’s Expanded Rescue Fund, Sasi Says

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o   a n d   O w e n   T h o m a s
-- 
2011-09-28T07:42:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/finland-will-pass-efsf-rescue-fund-amendments-today-sasi-says.html
Finland ’s parliament will approve
the expansion of  Europe ’s temporary rescue fund, according to
Kimmo Sasi, head of the parliament’s Finance Committee.  “I’m fully confident” lawmakers will pass the European
Financial Stability Facility amendments, Sasi said today in an
interview with Bloomberg TV’s Countdown with Owen Thomas. “It
will be quite some majority today in the Finnish parliament.”  Today’s parliamentary vote in the northernmost euro member
won’t include Finland’s collateral requirement in exchange for
its contribution to a second Greek bailout. The condition has
threatened to derail Europe’s crisis-fighting efforts and roiled
European financial markets.  The Helsinki-based parliament will vote on each bailout
paid from the EFSF, and its collateral demands will be addressed
by lawmakers on a case by case basis, Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen said Sept. 20.  “When we discuss the second package for  Greece , that is
the point when we need collateral,” said Sasi, a lawmaker from
Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen ’s National Coalition party. “Now
it’s only a question of the mechanism. When the mechanism is
used for new countries and new measures, at that stage we raise
the question of collateral.”  No Collateral Solution  Negotiations over collateral “are still going on, but
there is no clear solution at this moment,” Sasi said.  Spain, France, Italy, Belgium, Luxembourg, Greece, Ireland
and Slovenia have already approved the enhanced powers for the
440 billion-euro ($597 billion) fund. All euro nations need to
approve the plan adopted by European leaders on July 21.  Under its expanded powers, the EFSF would take over bond
buying responsibilities from the  European Central Bank  and be
able to lend to nations before they need a bailout.  Finland’s parliament will vote at 2 p.m. local time. The
government holds 124 seats in the 200-member assembly. German
lawmakers will get their say on the package tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net ;
 Owen Thomas  in London at 
 othomas17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  