-- 
Finnish Parliament Approves Europe’s Expanded Rescue Fund

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-09-28T11:42:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/finland-s-parliament-approves-europe-rescue-fund-expansion.html
Finland ’s parliament approved the
expansion of  Europe ’s temporary rescue fund, bringing to nine
the number of euro members to have ratified the mechanism.  Lawmakers in the Helsinki-based assembly voted 103 to 66 to
back measures that broaden the scope of the European Financial
Stability Facility. None abstained, while 30 lawmakers were
absent.  Today’s parliamentary vote in the northernmost euro member
didn’t address Finland’s insistence that it get collateral in
exchange for its contribution to a second Greek bailout. The
condition has threatened to derail Europe’s crisis-fighting
efforts and roiled European financial markets.  The result of Finland’s EFSF vote “improves confidence”
in Europe’s crisis-fighting ability, Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said in an interview. Finland’s collateral demands are
likely to be agreed on “within days or weeks,” he said.  The Finnish parliament will vote on each bailout paid from
the EFSF, and its collateral demands will be addressed by
lawmakers on a case by case basis, Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen said Sept. 20.  The euro traded 0.5 percent higher against the dollar, its
strongest level in a week, at 1.3657 at 12:35 p.m. in  London .
Yields on Greek, Irish and Portuguese bonds eased.  ‘No Clear Solution’  “When we discuss the second package for  Greece , that is
the point when we need collateral,” Kimmo Sasi, head of the
parliament’s Finance Committee and a lawmaker from Prime
Minister Jyrki Katainen’s National Coalition party, said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television today. “Now it’s only a
question of the mechanism. When the mechanism is used for new
countries and new measures, at that stage we raise the question
of collateral.”  Negotiations over collateral “are still going on, but
there is no clear solution at this moment,” Sasi said.  Spain, France, Italy, Belgium, Luxembourg, Greece, Ireland
and Slovenia have already approved the enhanced powers for the
440 billion-euro ($597 billion) fund. All euro nations need to
approve the plan adopted by European leaders on July 21.  Under its expanded powers, the EFSF would take over bond
buying responsibilities from the  European Central Bank  and be
able to lend to nations before they need a bailout.  German lawmakers will vote on the EFSF tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net ;
 Owen Thomas  in London at 
 othomas17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  