-- 
Finmeccanica Said to Appoint Mediobanca to Advise on Two Transport Units

-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 
2011-09-28T12:14:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/finmeccanica-said-to-appoint-mediobanca-to-advise-on-transport.html
Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) ,  Italy ’s biggest
defense company, hired Mediobanca SpA as an adviser on strategic
options for its transportation units, two people familiar with
the situation said.  Mediobanca, the country’s biggest publicly traded
investment bank, will look into options for Finmeccanica
businesses including AnsaldoBreda, a fully owned train-making
unit, and mass-transit specialist Ansaldo STS SpA, said the
people, who declined to be named because the matter is private.  Several companies have expressed interest in the units, one
of the people said. Rome-based Finmeccanica declined to comment.  Chief Executive Officer Giuseppe Orsi has said the state-
controlled company may sell AnsaldoBreda, which is unprofitable,
if it isn’t able to restructure it. Finmeccanica gets about 10
percent of its revenue from transportation businesses.  The company may be close to a deal to sell AnsaldoBreda to
General Electric Co., which is also interested in Ansaldo STS,
newspaper Il Tirreno reported Sept. 14, citing Alessio
Bartolomei, a local official from Pistoia.  Alstom SA is also interested in AnsaldoBreda, seeking an
acquisition or partnership,  Il Sole 24 Ore  reported Sept. 16,
citing a letter from the French company’s Chief Executive
Officer Patrick Kron to Finmeccanica.  Orsi said Sept. 20 that there were no parties in advanced
talks to buy AnsaldoBreda and that the unit’s newly appointed
CEO, Maurizio Manfellotto, is working on an updated business
plan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  