-- 
Five Prescriptions to Heal Economy: Laurence Kotlikoff

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   K o t l i k o f f
-- 
2011-09-28T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/five-prescriptions-to-heal-economic-ills-commentary-by-laurence-kotlikoff.html
(Corrects number of companies in 14th paragraph.)  Desperate times call for creative
measures. We’re in desperate times, but we’ve had little
creative thinking from the Obama administration on how to fix
the economy.  According to Ron Suskind’s new book, “Confidence Men,”
 Lawrence Summers , formerly the president’s chief economist, was
concerned more with controlling than developing policy. No
surprise. Hiring Summers was a huge mistake. But he’s gone, and
the current economics team is free to think outside of Summers’s
narrow, politically calculated box.  The president’s new-yet-familiar jobs bill entails more
spending and more tax cuts, neither of which is affordable
absent new revenue. The president wants the rich to cover the
bill’s cost.  House Republicans  are saying no, dooming the bill
to political oblivion.  What about printing more money? The Fed has already printed
$1.8 trillion since September 2007. This exceeds by a factor of
two all the money the Fed had printed since its creation in
1913. Printing even more money can’t be the answer.  The situation isn’t hopeless. I see five things policy
makers can do to get the economy going. All involve ways to
overcome what we economists call “coordination failures.”  1. Stop paying interest on bank reserves.  The Fed has effectively been bribing banks not to lend to
businesses all the extra money it has been printing. It does so
by paying interest on the excess reserves they hold on account
at the central bank. We’re talking lots of excess reserves: $1.5
trillion today versus $2 billion in 2007.  Banks don’t want to lend the money because they worry about
the state of the economy. But if the Fed encouraged banks to
lend en masse to companies that would be able to repay in a
normal economy, their collective lending would help produce that
normal economy.  So here’s one no-brainer. Have the Fed stop paying interest
on reserves and start encouraging the banks to make loans. Our
bankers are supposed to know the best and brightest companies in
which to invest. Why else would we tolerate the terrible
financial risk to which they expose our country?  Let’s say, “Bankers, you’re on. Find $1.6 trillion in the
best investment projects you can -- projects based in the U.S.
that involve hiring lots of Americans -- and lend your excess
reserves.”  The move would create inflation risk by increasing the
amount of money (cash and demand deposits) directly held by the
public. But the new output generated by the loans would help
keep prices in check. And if prices rise, the Fed can quickly
reverse the measures it has been taking to pump money into the
economy.  2. Get workers to invest in jobs.  About 14 million Americans are out of work. If we cut that
figure by 6 million, we’d have 5 percent unemployment -- close
to the rate in good times.  Our country has some 120,000 companies that individually
employ 100 or more workers and collectively employ about 80
million workers. President  Barack Obama  could call on the
workers and shareholders in these companies to voluntarily hire
7.5 percent more workers and do everything possible to maintain
the higher level of employment going forward.  How, one might ask, would all the new workers be paid?
Existing employees could agree to a 7.5 percent wage cut in
exchange for immediately vested shares of their companies’ stock
of equal value. If their companies aren’t incorporated, company
owners could segregate a portion of the company’s profits to be
paid, over time, to those workers taking the immediate pay cut.
This plan asks workers to finance the new hiring, but makes
company owners ultimately pay the bill.  This is very different from asking one company to increase
employment alone. Under this policy, all large companies will
know that all other large companies are hiring. Hence, they’ll
know that there will be a bigger demand for the additional goods
and services their new employees will produce.  In 2008, German workers and employers voluntarily adopted
national job-saving measures, and the German economy is now the
envy of the world.  3. Encourage corporate America to invest.  Large companies are purportedly sitting on roughly $2
trillion in cash. They are waiting for the economy to improve
before they invest, but it won’t improve until they all do so.
The president can help resolve this problem by assembling in one
room the CEOs of the largest 1,000 U.S. companies and getting
them to collectively pledge to double their U.S. investment over
the next three years. If they all invested simultaneously, they
would immediately create much of the demand needed to make their
investments worthwhile.  4. Get prices and wages unstuck.  Some prices and wages are set too high, thereby damping
demand for output and for the workers needed to produce it. This
is the standard sticky wage and price explanation for our
economic malaise offered by Keynesian economists such as  Paul Krugman  and James Galbraith. I think there are fewer markets
suffering from this problem than Krugman and Galbraith do, but
there are enough such markets to make the case for government
intervention. Indeed, the president should put these economists
in charge of identifying the markets suffering from this problem
and helping their participants set market-clearing prices and
wages.  One example is the market for construction workers. A 1931
law called the Davis-Bacon Act effectively requires contractors
using federal money to pay union wages. If the act were
suspended or repealed, federal spending on much-needed
infrastructure projects could create a lot more jobs.  5. Achieve fiscal sustainability  The government’s huge official debt and enormous future
Social Security and health-care liabilities raise the gigantic
question: Who will pay these bills? In such an environment,
companies aren’t going to invest and households aren’t going to
spend. I’ve been advocating reforms that would radically
simplify our tax system, fix Social Security and health care,
and put our government finances on a sustainable course. What’s
more, these plans, called the Purple Plans, should strongly
appeal to both blue Americans, like President Obama, and red
Americans, like  Paul Ryan .  Our economy is very sick, and its appointed doctors haven’t
found a cure. It’s time for new doctors with new medicine. The
above five prescriptions deal with the economy’s five most
severe conditions. If these prescriptions are filled, the
economy won’t just get back on its feet. It will start running
the marathon.  ( Laurence Kotlikoff , a professor of economics at  Boston
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Laurence Kotlikoff at  kotlikoff@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at 
 mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 