-- 
Florida May Set January Vote That Accelerates Nominating Process

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-09-29T04:00:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/florida-may-set-january-primary-vote.html
Florida  will likely defy national
party rules and set its presidential primary for Jan. 31, 2012,
state House Speaker Dean Cannon said yesterday, a move that
would trigger an acceleration of the Republican nominating race.  Cannon expects a Florida commission responsible for
scheduling the primary to “formally choose” the January date
tomorrow, he said in a telephone interview, in a bid to ensure
the state goes fifth in balloting after  Iowa , New Hampshire,
 South Carolina  and  Nevada .  The plan threatens to shift the start of voting in the
Republican race a month earlier than party leaders had intended,
condensing a number of important contests into January and
creating a holiday-season campaign crunch that officials and
candidates had hoped to avoid.  The move is designed to boost Florida’s influence in the
nominating process, said Cannon, who helped name the nine-member
state commission that will endorse the primary date.  “I believe Florida will be the pivotal battleground for
the race to the White House,” Cannon said. Because of its
geography, demographics and economic issues, he said, “we are a
great litmus test for anyone who wants to win the White House.”  ‘Tremendous Impact’  Florida’s experience with a Jan. 29 contest in 2008, which
helped seal Arizona Senator  John McCain ’s eventual nomination in
the Republican race, shows the state can have a “potentially
tremendous impact on who our next president is,” Cannon said.  To retain their status as sites of the initial nomination
contests, Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina and Nevada likely
would move their contests into early- or mid-January. The first-
in-the-nation Iowa caucus had been tentatively set for Feb. 6.  The caucuses were held Jan. 3 in 2008 and New Hampshire,
which holds the first primary, followed five days later,
spurring complaints that the contests were too close to the
holiday season and each other.  “We’re going to work together as effectively as we can to
make sure that our original order is maintained, and obviously,
the dates are going to be changing as the political
circumstances change,” said Wayne MacDonald, chairman of the
New Hampshire  Republican Party . He said an early-January primary
date, which would force the candidates to make campaign
appearances in the state during the Christmas and New Year’s
holidays, is “certainly a possibility.”  ‘Disserves’ the Process  “I’m deeply disappointed that Florida’s doing this,”
MacDonald said in a telephone interview. “Front-loading
disserves the whole process. It disserves the candidates, it
disserves the voters. It doesn’t give the decision-makers -- the
voters -- the fair opportunity they deserve to vet the
candidates.”  Josh Putnam, a political scientist at Davidson College in
 North Carolina  who specializes in campaigns and elections, said
the “worst-case scenario” he envisions is Iowa scheduling its
caucuses Jan. 2, with New Hampshire following on Jan. 10.  Florida’s proposal, he said, is the predictable culmination
of a decades-long drift to an earlier calendar, driven by states
eager to maximize their roles in the nominating process.  “The mindset has been a gradual, slow movement forward,”
said Putnam, who writes about the primary calendar on his blog
 Frontloading HQ . “The campaigns have been operating under the
assumption that this was going to start in January anyway, so
from their perspective, it hasn’t changed very much.”  Romney’s Reaction  Former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , campaigning
yesterday in New Hampshire, told reporters he doesn’t get
involved in states’ decisions about scheduling their balloting,
and is prepared for whatever schedule is set -- as long as the
four states that traditionally go first retain that status.  “We’re ready whenever the process begins,” Romney said.
“My expectation is that Iowa and New Hampshire, and for that
matter Nevada and South Carolina, will move their calendars such
that they are first, and that the order that people expect is
the order that we’re going to see.”  The  Republican National Committee  has barred any state
other than the first four from holding its primary before March
6, and said it will penalize states that violate the rule with
the loss of half their delegates to the party convention in
Tampa, Florida. The deadline for states to set their primary
dates is Oct. 1, and it’s not clear whether Florida might
reconsider or negotiate a different plan over the next few days.  RNC Rules  “We’re going to keep working with all of the states to
ensure compliance with the RNC rules,” said Sean Spicer, the
party’s communications director. “And any states not in
compliance will lose 50 percent of their delegates.”  The threat has proven an empty one in past nominating
contests, because nominees can request at the convention that
the delegates’ voting rights be restored. In any case, Cannon
said the penalty is a “risk worth taking, because it’s far more
important we protect Florida’s voters’ voices.”  Ray Buckley, the chairman of  New Hampshire ’s  Democratic
Party , called Florida’s proposed move “appalling.”  “Now, New Hampshire voters will undoubtedly be hounded by
Republican presidential wannabes as they try to spend time with
their families this winter,” he said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net ,  Margaret Talev  in  Boca Raton , Florida
at   mtalev@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  