-- 
Florida Governor Scott Insistent on Drug Tests for All State Employees

-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 
2011-09-28T17:21:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/florida-s-scott-insistent-on-drug-tests-for-all-state-employees.html
Florida Governor  Rick Scott  said he
intends to press for drug testing of all state employees after
restricting the screening to a single department in June.  The first-term Republican ordered the random tests in  March 
and suspended them for all agencies other than the Corrections
Department after an employee union sued. Scott said today that
the requirement is a “logical” way to ensure that tax dollars
are well spent.  “How many private employers drug-screen workers? A lot
do,” Scott told a Miami meeting of business leaders. “Why? You
want to have a workforce that you know is doing the right
things. Shouldn’t your state workers do that?”  When asked after the speech when he would implement full
testing of employees under his control, he said: “We will, I’m
not sure when.”  Scott, 58, a former hospital-chain chief executive,
promised in his campaign to run the state more like a business.
He backed legislation requiring state employees to contribute 3
percent of their salaries to their pensions and a law that links
teacher pay to student performance.  Florida would become the first state to randomly drug test
state employees who aren’t involved in safety-sensitive work,
said Alma Gonzalez, special counsel for the American Federation
of State, County and Municipal Employees’  Florida unit . The
union sued on May 31, alleging that the test amounts to an
unlawful search.  “It would represent a rewrite of the United States
Constitution,” Gonzalez said. “Apparently they believe there’s
a different way to try to undo those constitutional
protections.”  The Corrections Department tested about 21,000 workers
before Scott took office and now tests an additional 6,000
because of the governor’s order, said Jo Ellyn Rackleff, a
spokeswoman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 