-- 
Florida’s Dirt Bond Holders Fight for Standing in Bankruptcy Pecking Order

-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 
2011-09-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/florida-s-dirt-bond-holders-fight-for-standing-in-bankruptcy-pecking-order.html
Holders of a  Florida  development’s
tax-exempt bonds are fighting a judge’s order that may make it
harder for owners of at least $2.9 billion of defaulted debt to
get paid by excluding them from a bankruptcy settlement.  Owners of more than $100 million of so-called dirt bonds
sold by two Fiddler’s Creek Community Development Districts
heard in August that most of their debt payments will begin
after those to other creditors of Fiddler’s Creek LLC, the
bankrupt builder of a 4,000-acre (1,600-hectare) community in
Naples, on Florida’s west coast.  Defaults on Florida dirt bonds, repaid with homeowner and
landholder fees, have soared to at least 40 percent, or $2.9
billion, of the $7 billion outstanding, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg using disclosures made over the past year.
Projects went unfinished as  home prices  in the state plunged 42
percent from their 2006 peak to the second quarter of 2011,
according to Federal Housing Finance Agency data.  “This is the single biggest default event in the history of
the municipal market,”  Richard Lehmann , publisher of Distressed
Debt Securities, a newsletter, said in his August issue. He put
the defaulted amount, including those that tapped reserves, at
$5.1 billion, or 77 percent of those issued since 2003.  Dirt bonds are sold by community development districts set
up by builders to finance roads and utility lines on raw land
for housing. About 371 in Florida issued the $7 billion
outstanding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Share of Defaults  Bonds backed by special assessments like those in
development districts account for 22 percent of recent local-
bond defaults, John Hallacy, head of municipal research at Bank
of America Merrill Lynch in  New York , said in a Sept. 23 report.  More than $1.1 billion of bonds in the $2.9 trillion
municipal market have defaulted so far this year, compared with
$4.25 billion in all of 2010, according to the bank.  The Fiddler’s Creek case is the first in Florida where a
development district settled debts with a builder under Chapter
11 bankruptcy procedures over bondholders’ objections, said
Lehmann. It may prompt more Chapter 11 filings by builders
looking to delay bond payments, he said.  “The bondholders were supposed to be the first people in
line, and now they’ve been basically made the last,” Lehmann
said by telephone from  Miami Lakes , Florida, where he heads
Income Securities Advisors Inc.  May Set Precedent  The Fiddler’s Creek bankruptcy decision may set a precedent
in other states, including California, Colorado and  Nebraska ,
where similar districts borrow for industrial and residential
development, said  Richard Levin , a bankruptcy lawyer at Cravath,
Swaine & Moore LLP in New York.  More than 20 districts in Florida have developers that
filed for or emerged from bankruptcy, according to court
records. Builders of two, Cordoba Ranch and Landmark at Doral,
with a combined $81.6 million in bonds outstanding, filed for
Chapter 11 since the Fiddler’s Creek settlement, the data show.  The two Fiddler’s Creek districts sold more than $150
million of tax-exempt debt beginning in 1996 to build
infrastructure for a project that was to include 6,000 homes,
golf courses, clubhouses and tennis courts. Fewer than 1,800
houses had been built as of a March 2010 court filing.  The developer lost as much as $42 million in anticipated
revenue as prices fell and buyers refused to close purchases,
according to a transcript of a July hearing that led to the
judge’s ruling. The builder, which expected the project to bring
in $397 million, according to a court filing, hasn’t paid
assessments toward most of the bonds since 2008.  Bankruptcy Petition  The developer and 27 related entities submitted a Chapter
11 bankruptcy petition in February 2010. The filing is used by
companies to reorganize debts under court supervision;
municipalities use Chapter 9 bankruptcy in a similar way.  Judge K. Rodney May, of federal  bankruptcy court  in Tampa,
confirmed a debt reorganization agreement on Aug. 29 between the
builder and the development district that delays bond payments.  May refused to give bondholders voting rights on the plan,
saying they’re not direct creditors. He called them “a creditor
of a creditor,” according to a transcript of the July 29
hearing, because they didn’t buy bonds from the developer but
from the district, which lent the funds to the builder.  “We were told, ‘Just sit on your hands and you’ll get paid
eventually,’” Andrew Sanford, an analyst for ITG Holdings, an
investment firm in Naples that holds $15 million of the bonds,
said in a telephone interview.  Ruling Appealed  On Sept. 26,  U.S. Bank National Association , which
represents bondholders, appealed the ruling. Tom Joyce, a
spokesman, declined to comment in an e-mail.  W. Keith Fendrick ,
 Michael P. Maguire  and  Douglas Darbut , lawyers at Holland &
Knight LLP in Tampa who appealed, didn’t return calls.  The reorganization plan went into effect on Sept. 2,
according to court documents. That makes it difficult for
bondholders to successfully challenge the ruling, said Levin of
Cravath, Swaine.  “The courts are reluctant to unwind a confirmed
reorganization plan on appeal if a plan has already been
implemented,” he said in a telephone interview. “Those are
pretty tough eggs to unscramble.”  The Fiddler’s Creek agreement delays payments to
bondholders until April 2012 or 2013, depending on the sale date
of their securities. Payments on other obligations will begin
first, including on a $6.6 million loan held by Mount Kellett
Capital Management LP and toward outstanding real-estate taxes,
according to court documents.  Repayment Expected  The developer is “very comfortable” that bondholders will
be paid, said  Mariaelena Gayo-Guitian , a bankruptcy lawyer at
Genovese Joblove & Battista who represented the builder.
Bondholders “are maintaining their priority liens,” she said
in a telephone interview from  Fort Lauderdale .  The judge’s decision will depress prices of Fiddler’s Creek
bonds, said Lehmann. A 10-year security sold in 2003 traded at
about 36 cents on the dollar on July 26, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s a major change in the collateral value that people
perceive,” Lehmann said of the ruling’s effect.  The case is Fiddler’s Creek, LLC, 8:10-bk-03846-KRM,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Middle District of Florida (Tampa).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 