-- 
Ford Said to Discuss Adding 10,000 U.S. Jobs, Moving Fusion

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n ,   J o h n   L i p p e r t   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-09-28T20:15:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/ford-is-said-to-discuss-adding-10-000-jobs-building-fusion-sedan-in-u-s-.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  is discussing adding
as many as 10,000 jobs in the U.S. in negotiations with the
United Auto Workers union on a new four-year contract, according
to three people familiar with the talks.  The job-creation discussion is part of high-level
negotiations between Ford and UAW President  Bob King  over wages,
benefits, and employment gains in the new contract and is still
subject to change, said the people, who asked not to be
identified revealing internal deliberations. As many as 4,000 of
those jobs may come from Ford shifting production of the Fusion
midsize sedan to the U.S. from Mexico, one of the people said.  The UAW may reach an agreement this week on a contract
covering Ford’s 41,000 workers, Joel Goddard, co-chairman of the
union’s bargaining committee said in a recorded message Sept.
26. Ford, which earned $4.95 billion in the first half of the
year, is seeking to lower labor costs in the new contract. New
hires are paid about half as much as senior workers.  “Jobs have been a central goal of the union in this round
of negotiations,” said  Harley Shaiken , a labor professor at the
 University of California  at Berkeley. “Ford, which is the most
advanced in its recovery, is a natural for this kind of job
creation.”  General Motors Co. (GM)  agreed to add or retain 6,400 jobs in a
tentative agreement it reached with the UAW on Sept. 16. GM’s
48,500 hourly workers ratified that contract with 65 percent of
production workers and 63 percent of skilled-trades workers
voting for it, the union said today.  “Two years ago, GM and Chrysler were hanging by a thread
when President Obama stepped in and invested federal funds to
help turn the companies and the U.S. auto industry around,
protecting the auto supplier base and keeping good-paying jobs
in America,” King said today in a statement. Ford avoided the
bankruptcies and bailouts that befell GM and Chrysler Group LLC.  Fusion Production  Ford now produces the Fusion at a factory in Hermosillo,
 Mexico , which employs 3,335 workers, according to the
automaker’s website.  Sales of the Fusion in the U.S., where it is Ford’s top-
selling car, rose 16 percent this year to 168,929 models through
August. Last year, Ford sold 219,219 Fusions in the U.S.,
according to researcher Autodata of  Woodcliff Lake ,  New Jersey .  King met yesterday with  John Fleming , Ford’s chief of
manufacturing and labor affairs, to discuss new work the
automaker may be willing to put into U.S. plants, one of the
people said. King shifted to Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford last
week after talks faltered with Fiat SpA-controlled Chrysler,
which said it extended its contract to Oct. 19.  “We have accelerated our talks,” Goddard, the union’s
Ford bargaining committee co-chairman, said in a telephone
recording late Sept. 26. “We are optimistically hopeful we will
have good news for our membership by the end of the week.”  UAW Chief ‘Confident’  Marcey Evans , a Ford spokeswoman, declined to comment.  “We’re not commenting on the details of talks,” said
 Michele Martin , a UAW spokeswoman.  King is “confident that we are on track to secure an
economic package that our membership deserves,” Anderson
Robinson, recording secretary of the union’s Ford bargaining
committee, said in a recorded message yesterday. He added that
King and UAW Vice President Jimmy Settles met “for several
hours” with Ford bargainers yesterday.  Hiring entry-level workers would help Ford lower its labor
costs because they start at about $14 an hour, half what senior
employees make, Shaiken said. Ford has said it has fewer than
100 entry-level workers among its hourly workforce, the fewest
of the U.S. automakers.  “There’s little question that the entry-level workers are
accelerating the hiring process,” Shaiken said. “That’s a key
part of the UAW strategy. It creates more jobs.”  GM Agreement  The GM agreement calls for boosting starting pay of entry-
level workers to at least $14.78 an hour from $14. That wage
rises to as much as $19.28 an hour by 2015 from a previous
maximum of $16.23.  GM may reduce labor costs by as much as $350 million
annually through a combination of lower starting wages and
buyouts of higher-paid skilled-trades workers, Morgan Stanley
analyst Adam Jonas wrote in a Sept. 26 note.  “With buyouts and natural attrition of its most expensive
workers substituted by higher levels of tier 2 workers, the
contract not only offers greater flexibility, it offers the
potential of greater profitability for GM,” Jonas wrote.  Ford has said it has the highest labor costs of the three
U.S. automakers, at $58 an hour including benefits. GM’s labor
costs are $56 an hour, according to the Center for Automotive
Research in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan . Chrysler has said its labor
costs are about $50 an hour.  Signing Bonus  Beyond commitments for new jobs, workers at Ford are
looking for a contract signing bonus that is larger than the
$5,000 GM agreed to, as well as more generous profit sharing,
Shaiken said. They are expecting more for their role in helping
Ford recover without government assistance.  “It would not be surprising to see something more at Ford
for the workers,” Shaiken said. “There’s an expectation
there.”  Workers at Ford also have filed an “equality of
sacrifice” grievance against the automaker after salaried
workers received raises, tuition assistance and 401(k) matches
last year. The two sides met with an arbitrator Sept. 15.  Ford’s Turnaround  Ford earned $9.28 billion in the past two years after $30.1
billion in losses from 2006 through 2008. The automaker borrowed
$23.4 billion in late 2006, putting up all major assets
including its blue oval logo as collateral. That helped Ford
avoid bankruptcy and boost U.S. market share the last two years.  Ford fell 19 cents, or 1.9 percent, to $9.93 at 4 p.m. in
composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The shares
have fallen 41 percent this year after rising 68 percent in
2010.  “Ford has shown a tendency in recent years of being
innovative at the bargaining table,” Shaiken said. “If there’s
one thing that’s going to be dramatic, it’s  job creation .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
John Lippert in Chicago at 
 jlippert@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  