-- 
Former ECB Chief Economist Issing Says Greece Will Exit the Euro

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-09-28T11:28:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/former-ecb-chief-economist-issing-says-greece-will-exit-the-euro.html
Former European Central Bank chief
economist  Otmar Issing , one of the architects of the euro, said
 Greece ’s exit from the 17-nation monetary union is inevitable.  “There is no other way,” Issing told  Germany ’s Stern in
an interview, according to a transcript supplied by the
magazine. With Greece’s debt forecast to reach 160 percent of
gross domestic product next year, the country needs to renege on
at least 50 percent of its obligations and “that can’t happen
within the monetary union,” Issing is quoted as saying.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  has said the suggestion
that a country could leave the euro is “absurd” and insisted
that Greece can solve its problems through fiscal reforms.
Issing said it’s “too late for that” now and that “the
country won’t get back on its feet without a drastic debt
restructuring.”  That can’t happen within the euro area because it would be
“a license for Greece and other highly-indebted nations to
dispose of their problems through a reduction of their debt
levels” and result in “the end of the monetary union,” Issing
said.  European leaders have struggled to allay investor concerns
that a potential debt restructuring in Greece will plunge the
region’s economy into a recession. Greek bonds have tumbled and
insurance against default has soared as markets put the
probability of insolvency at more than 90 percent. Such an event
may require the recapitalization of banks across  Europe  as they
incur losses on their Greek assets.  Greek ‘Precedent’  “Markets see Greece not as a special case but as a
precedent,” said  Christian Schulz , an economist at Joh.
Berenberg Gossler & Co. “A Greek exit would increase the cost
for the euro-zone rescue significantly.”  Greece, which is locked out of financial markets, is
struggling to the meet the terms of its European Union-led
bailout. It has pledged to reduce its general government deficit
to about 7.5 percent of GDP this year from 10.5 percent in 2010.  “The bitter truth, unfortunately, is that the Greeks have
lived beyond their means for years and will now be set back many
years by their artificially inflated living standards,” Issing
said.  Issing, 75, designed the ECB’s monetary policy strategy. He
retired from the bank in 2006 and is currently president of the
Center for Financial Studies in  Frankfurt . He was unable to be
reached for comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  