-- 
Gas Tax Should Yield to Mile Fee as Cars Evolve: James M. Whitty

-- B y   J a m e s   M .   W h i t t y
-- 
2011-09-28T00:00:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/gas-tax-should-be-mile-fee-as-cars-evolve-commentary-by-james-m-whitty.html
For 80 years the U.S. has relied on
motor-fuel taxes to pay for road repairs, transit systems and
highway construction. This system needs an overhaul because
soaring fuel efficiency and a poor economy jeopardize the
current tax’s fundraising power.  The federal government reaped $31.7 billion from fuel taxes
in 2009, the lowest total in five years. States collected $37.9
billion in 2008, about the same amount as the year before. More
recent data isn’t in yet, but further declines are inevitable.
In July, carmakers and U.S. authorities agreed to raise fuel-
efficiency standards 80 percent by 2025. As better mileage
becomes commonplace, motorists won’t need to buy as much
gasoline or diesel.  Boosting the federal gasoline tax above its current 18
cents a gallon would be a short-term fix at best, failing to
address the shrinking tax base. The only way to raise adequate
revenue and charge all users fairly is to restructure the road
tax so it is based on miles driven, rather than fuel burned.  Efforts to design an alternative began a decade ago, led by
state officials in  Oregon  and  Minnesota , along with experts at
the University of  Iowa . We came up with the vehicle mileage tax.
The concept is simple: The more you drive, the more you pay.  Modern Alternative  Two congressional commissions on transportation funding
endorsed the mileage tax in 2008 and 2009 as the most viable
alternative to the fuel tax. Since then, the federal government
has made little headway in moving toward this new approach. With
the traditional gasoline tax in trouble, it is imperative to
focus on a more modern alternative.  Here is how a mileage tax system would work:  The system should offer motorists choices for reporting
mileage driven and paying the tax. Some people may choose to
report total mileage wirelessly from the vehicle’s odometer
system. Others may use their own global-positioning systems,
such as car-mounted navigation units or smart phones, to report
mileage. (Yes, there will be an app for this.)  Some motorists may elect to bypass mileage metering
altogether. They could pay a flat amount for unlimited annual
driving or a variable amount based on an estimate of miles
traveled. Those desiring simplicity could choose electronic
reporting with automatic debits from a bank account.  The tax paid would depend on the per mile rate set by
Congress for the federal portion and by state legislatures for
the state portion. The combined federal and state tax rate would
total about two or three cents per mile, depending on the state.  Light Touch  The government should apply a light touch to the collection
system. Rather than relying on any particular technology, a more
open approach would let the marketplace supply necessary data-
collection equipment and services, certified for consistency.  Actual tax collection could be contracted to private
companies, acting on behalf of the revenue agency. That way,
market competition could drive down administrative costs. The
government would oversee and certify providers to ensure
fairness.  Paying the mileage tax could be as simple as paying a
utility bill. Whether it will be as automatic as the gasoline
tax embedded in a fuel purchase depends on which method
motorists choose. In all cases, motorists will be better aware
of the taxes they pay.  Public debate shouldn’t be hampered by concerns about a new
government bureaucracy or the privacy implications of collecting
GPS data. Although a mileage-tax pilot program did involve GPS
receivers, there was no retention of personal data or tracking
of individual vehicle movements. And a mileage tax could be
implemented without requiring government-provided GPS units in
motorists’ cars.  The key to having a mileage tax system without a GPS
mandate is to offer motorists choices -- something consumers
generally like.  To begin, the new collection system wouldn’t even need to
apply to every vehicle. The current fuel tax raises a lot of
revenue from larger passenger vehicles and trucks, and it could
remain in place for these vehicles. The mileage tax should be
focused first on electric cars and other highly fuel-efficient
vehicles, to ensure that owners of such vehicles pay their fair
share of roadway costs.  Oregon’s Idea  This year, the Oregon Legislative Assembly considered
applying the mileage tax to electric vehicles and plug-in
hybrids. To encourage public acceptance, the proposed tax had a
delayed start of 2015 at a transitional rate of 0.85 cents per
mile, rising to 1.56 cents per mile in 2018. Two legislative
committees, with bipartisan support, accepted the viability of
the mileage tax for these new vehicles.  At the end of the legislative session, the bill stalled,
not because of concerns over privacy or a new government
bureaucracy, but because it was, after all, a new tax.  Still, it remains possible to design a publicly acceptable
mileage tax. And it’s increasingly necessary to do so. In the
years ahead, America’s roads increasingly will be filled with
highly fuel-efficient cars and trucks. Operators of those
vehicles must pay appropriately for their use of the road
system. Fairness demands it, and the  U.S. economy  needs a
highway system in good working order.  (James M. Whitty, a manager at the Oregon Department of
Transportation, administers the Road User Fee Task Force, an
independent body created by the Oregon legislature. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
James M. Whitty at  jim.whitty@odot.state.or.us   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
George Anders at   ganders@bloomberg.net . 