-- 
Gazprom Long-Term Gas Contracts Are Focus of Antitrust Investigation by EU

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-09-29T00:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/gazprom-gas-supply-contracts-are-focus-of-eu-antitrust-probe.html
OAO Gazprom’s natural gas contracts
are the focus of European Union antitrust investigators’ raids
across central and eastern  Europe  that sought to uncover
information on prices and supplies to customers.  The probe is looking at companies with long-term natural
gas supply contracts with Gazprom and was “a way to circumvent
confidentiality clauses” that prevent regulators from getting
data on capacity, Bulgaria Energy Minister Traicho Traikov told
reporters in Sofia.  Gazprom, which supplies about a quarter of European gas
needs, has been looking to further expand in Europe, its biggest
market by revenue. At the same time, Europe’s dependence on
 Russia ’s state-owned gas monopoly has spurred the EU to try to
diversify energy supplies and trade more gas within its borders
by opening up markets and pipelines.  “We are on the verge of a battle between the cartel of
consumers and the cartel of suppliers,”  Alexander Rahr , an
analyst at the Berlin-based German Council on Foreign Relations,
said by phone yesterday. “The EU did a bit of muscle-flexing,
as Gazprom is trying to reach separate agreements with companies
behind Brussels’ back.”  Companies found to violate EU competition rules can be fined
as much as 10 percent of annual revenue. Earlier EU probes led
 RWE AG (RWE)  to sell its gas-transmission network and  E.ON AG (EOAN)  to shed
its German power grid in settlements that helped them avoid
large penalties.  Watching Probe ‘Closely’  Gazprom said Sept. 27 that EU officials visited its German
and Czech units to study documents and that the company was
cooperating with regulators. The raid doesn’t mean that Gazprom
breached any antitrust rules, both Gazprom and the EU said.  RWE, E.ON’s Ruhrgas and Hungary units,  OMV AG (OMV)  and  Poland 's
 Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe I Gazownictwo SA (PGN)  said Sept. 27 that
they were also raided by the European Commission. As many as
seven other companies in Bulgaria, Latvia,  Estonia  and Slovakia
also said they were raided.  Russia expects the EU investigation to respect the rights
of Russian investors and gas suppliers, the country’s energy
ministry said in an e-mailed statement. Russia is watching the
probe “closely,” Prime Minister Vladimir Putin’s spokesman
Dmitry Peskov said by telephone.  Destination Clauses  EU regulators are likely to focus on so-called destination
clauses in Gazprom contracts signed in the 1980s and 1990s that
forbid customers from selling gas outside one country and now
contravene EU rules that encourage gas to be sold across the 27-
nation bloc, said Chris Rogers, an analyst at Bloomberg
Industries.  “One of the problems with gas contracts is that they’re
super-secret,” Rogers said in a telephone interview. The only
way for regulators to secure information on  gas prices  or
volumes “is if they go and grab them for themselves.”  A lengthy EU investigation “makes life more complex” and
may slow down negotiations on new contracts between Gazprom and
two of its biggest European customers RWE and E.ON, Rogers said.  Gazprom has been in arbitration with RWE, its main partner
for supplying the  Czech Republic , and E.ON,  Germany ’s biggest
utility, about prices for gas under long-term contracts. E.ON
and RWE are seeking to weaken the link between gas and oil
prices in Gazprom’s supply contracts as oil costs surged. The
companies lost hundreds of millions of dollars in the past year
as they sold gas to customers at less than it cost to source.  Selective Discounts  The raids may pressure Gazprom to provide the same pricing
to all European gas customers,  Valery Nesterov , an oil and gas
analyst at Troika Dialog in Moscow, said by phone. Gazprom has
“selectively” provided discounts to some partners, he said.  While the raids are the first time Gazprom has been
targeted by EU antitrust regulators, the company in June said
that the European Commission set “unacceptable conditions” for
the company’s planned purchase of a stake in Central European
Gas Hub AG in  Austria .  “Europe doesn’t want to give away control of the market to
Gazprom fearing it may take roots there,” Rahr said. “The EU
is making its position tougher while Gazprom just wants to make
money in the EU.”  The EU approved  legislation  in 2009 to spur more
competition and investment in the  energy industry  that would
separate companies’ control over energy infrastructure and
energy supplies. The EU separately plans to oversee energy
contracts between European nations and suppliers such as Gazprom
to make sure they respect competition rules.  Lithuania’s government in January asked the EU to
investigate Gazprom for refusing to cut gas prices after it
announced it would split ownership of gas sales and
transmission. Overgas,  Bulgaria ’s biggest private natural gas
distributor which is partly owned by Gazprom, also complained to
the EU in November after state-owned Bulgartransgaz AD blocked
access to a high-pressure pipeline, Overgas spokeswoman Nerry
Terzieva said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 