-- 
GE Energy Sales in China Will Increase at Least 25% Annually, Immelt Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-28T16:40:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/ge-china-energy-sales-to-rise-25-30-annually-ceo-immelt-says.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  expects its
energy unit’s sales in China will climb by at least 25 percent
annually as the most populous nation adopts more fuel-efficient
technology, Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  said.  GE has “great aspirations” in China, Immelt said at a
briefing in Beijing yesterday. Immelt was in Beijing to announce
a China-based contest offering $100 million in seed money for
innovations in gas-based power technology.  GE Energy Infrastructure, whose equipment provides more
than a quarter of the world’s electricity, last week projected
about $60 billion in revenue in 2014 as use of natural gas and
alternative sources like wind, solar and biogas rise along with
global demand, including in emerging markets like  China .  “China is a key part of our energy strategy,” Immelt
said. “What you are going to see here is China wants what most
other countries want, which is fuel diversity,  energy security ,
pollution reduction and conservation.”  GE has said it’s targeting profit growth of 10 percent next
year in its energy division. Earnings this year should be about
$7 billion, compared with last year’s $7.3 billion. Orders for
gas power projects are rising and prices for renewable sources
like wind, biogas and solar are stabilizing, GE has said.  The contest announced yesterday is part of the Fairfield,
Connecticut-based company’s “ecomagination” initiative, which
includes a $200 million fund that has put up financing for 22
small companies and entrepreneurs working on renewable
technologies, including so-called smart-grid projects.  GE’s ventures in China include three partners tied to
energy: State Grid Corp. of China, Shenhua Group Corp. and
Harbin Power Equipment Co. The company announced projects in
January totaling $2.1 billion.  “What China brings is scale,” Immelt said. “Small ideas
become big applications very quickly in this country. I expect
new gas innovations done in scale within the next three to five
years. That’s going to happen here.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  