-- 
German June Solar Panel Installations Fall Annual 69%

-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-09-28T15:34:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/germany-s-june-solar-panel-installations-fall-69-from-year-earlier.html
Germany, the world’s biggest solar-
panel market, added 664 megawatts of the devices in June, a 69
percent drop from the same period last year, according to
preliminary figures from the German power grid regulator.  The installations fell from 2,109 megawatts of solar
capacity built in June 2010, the record figure for that year,
when homeowners raced to beat a July subsidy cut, the
Bundesnetzagentur agency said on its  website .  German panel makers including  Solarworld AG (SWV) ,  Q-Cells SE (QCE)  and
Conergy AG have been struggling to offset slumping demand in
their home market, which has cut subsidies twice since June
2010. They’re also under pressure from Chinese manufacturers
that have boosted production capacity just as demand slowed,
causing cell and module prices to plummet.  “Prices for panels continue to drop and that’s suggesting
that solar installations in the third quarter will be weak,”
Katharina Cholewa, an analyst at WestLB AG in Dusseldorf,
Germany, said by telephone.  She added that on several occasions, slumping prices didn’t
result in increased demand as buyers wait for them to fall
further.  Q-Cells slid 6 percent in Frankfurt trading as of 5:15
p.m., bringing its loss this year to 79 percent. SMA Solar
Technology AG, the Niestetal-based producer of inverters that
Sept. 19 reduced its profit forecast amid weaker-than-expected
demand for rooftop systems, was down 8.3 percent.  Cholewa, who said she expected 700 megawatts of
installations for June, forecast  Germany  will add 3,100
megawatts in the second half, down from 3,400 megawatts in the
same period last year.  The German government seeks to add 3,500 megawatts of panel
installations each year and reduces subsidies if installations
exceed that level.  The country’s BSW solar lobby expects about 5,000 megawatts
of installations in all of 2011, Carsten Koernig, the head of
the group, said by telephone today. The next regular cut to
subsidies, scheduled for January, will likely be set at between
12 percent and 15 percent, he forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  