-- 
Germany’s Five-Year Note Sale Said to Be Shunned by Investors on Low Yield

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-09-28T15:06:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/german-note-sale-said-to-be-shunned-by-investors-on-low-yield.html
Germany ’s five-year note auction
failed to draw any bids from investors, with only banks obliged
to participate bidding for the securities, said six people with
knowledge of the sale.  Yields close to all-time lows deterred investors, said five
of the people, who declined to be identified because information
about the buyers is confidential. “This auction might not be
perfect, but it’s not our worst,” Carl Heinz Daube, the head of
the Frankfurt-based debt agency, said in a telephone interview.
He declined to comment on today’s buyers.  Germany received bids for 5.1 billion euros ($7 billion) of
the notes maturing in October 2016, less than the maximum
available 6 billion euros of securities, according to the
results from the Bundesbank. It allocated 5 billion euros at an
average yield of 1.22 percent, the lowest rate since Bloomberg
began collecting the data in 1993.  “The weaker than expected five-year auction result
reflects investor sentiment after a decent rally in equities
over the last couple of days and headlines over Germany’s role
in any euro area bailout,” said Grant Peterkin, a senior  money
manager  at Ignis Asset Management in Glasgow, which has 76.2
billion pounds ($119 billion) under management. “With the ECB
meeting next week, despite economic data globally suggesting
weaker growth, investors may be concerned that rate cuts aren’t
coming as soon as expected.”  Yield Climbs  Five-year German note yields rose as high as 1.30 percent
following the sale and were at 1.24 percent as of 3:11 p.m. in
 London , according to generic yield data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The auction is technically uncovered, but given the
market volatility we are not surprised,” Daube said. “We are
not concerned about this as we will be able to sell it to the
market, and therefore this posed no risk to our funding.”  Euribor futures declined, pushing the implied yield on the
contract expiring in December up seven basis points to 1.26
percent, signaling investors have reduced wagers on lower
 interest rates . The ECB has increased its refinancing rate twice
this year to 1.50 percent. It announces its next rate decision
on Oct. 6.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  