-- 
German Notes Fall on Quicker Inflation, Auction Demand; Irish Bonds Gain

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-09-28T15:10:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/german-10-year-bunds-rise-first-time-in-four-days-yield-falls-to-1-93-.html
German notes declined, with two-
year yields rising to the highest level in two weeks, after
government reports showed inflation accelerated to the fastest
pace in three years in September.  Five-year notes fell for a fourth day as investors bid for
fewer securities than were on offer at an auction today. Quicker
inflation reduces the purchasing power of bond’s fixed payments,
and makes it less likely the  European Central Bank  will cut
 interest rates  next week. Ireland’s 10-year yields fell below 8
percent for the first time this year. Greek bonds gained for a
second day.  “The market could see today’s inflation numbers as a good
reason for the ECB to explain that a rate cut is not needed in
the short term,” said Annalisa Piazza, a fixed-income
strategist at Newedge Group SA in London. “German paper is
quite expensive relative to other European countries, so demand
is not as strong as it used to be.”  The two-year German yield rose two basis points to 0.56
percent at 4:04 p.m. in London, after increasing to 0.61
percent, the highest level since Sept. 15. The 0.75 percent
security due September 2013 lost 0.045, or 45 euro cents per
1,000-euro ($1,361) face amount, to 100.375.  The five-year rate climbed three basis points to 1.24
percent and the 10-year yield was little changed at 1.96 percent  Inflation in  Europe ’s biggest economy accelerated more than
economists forecast in September. The rate, calculated using a
harmonized European Union method, increased to 2.8 percent, the
most since September 2008, the Federal Statistics Office said.  German Auction  Germany  received bids of 5.1 billion euros for the five-
year notes it sold today, less than the maximum available 6
billion euros, according to the results from the Bundesbank. It
allocated 5 billion euros to investors at an average yield of
1.22 percent, the lowest since Bloomberg began collecting the
data in 1993.  “Clearly, the recent recovery in risk appetite is taking
its toll here,”  Michael Leister , a fixed-income strategist at
WestLB AG in  London , wrote in a client note today. “This does
not come as a surprise, as five-year yields below 1.25 percent
were unlikely to attract substantial real-money interest.”  Euribor futures declined, pushing the implied yield on the
contract expiring in December up eight basis points to 1.27
percent, signaling investors have reduced wagers on lower
interest rates. The ECB has increased its refinancing rate twice
this year to 1.50 percent.  Core Countries  Bunds and securities of other so-called core countries
gained this month as reports signaled the region’s economy is
slipping back into a recession and the sovereign-debt crisis
worsened. Bunds have gained 2 percent in September, according to
indexes compiled by the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies and Bloomberg.  Ireland’s 10-year bonds rose for a third day, pushing 10-
year yields below 8 percent for the first time since Dec. 10.
The rate decreased 37 basis points to 7.88 percent. The two-year
note yield dropped 105 basis points to 7.41 percent.  The Greek 10-year rate fell 30 basis points to 23.02
percent, narrowing the extra yield investors get for holding the
securities instead of bunds by 30 basis points to 21.05
percentage points.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said she is awaiting a
report from a team of officials from the European Union, ECB and
 International Monetary Fund  on  Greece ’s progress before deciding
whether the bailout accord of July 21 should be implemented.  ‘All Disappointed’  “We are of course all disappointed by the fact that the
numbers in September, as it appears, are different to those we
were expecting,” Merkel told Athens-based state broadcaster
NET. “That’s why we need to wait to see what the expert
mission, the troika, determines and what it will say in relation
to whether there needs to be new talks or not.”  Volatility on Ireland’s sovereign debt was the highest
among developed-country markets today, according to measures of
10-year bonds, two-10-year spreads and credit-default swaps. The
yield change in the nation’s 10-year bonds was 2.3 times the 90-
day average, the Bloomberg gauge showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  