-- 
German Industry Chiefs Unite to Save Euro as Lawmakers Bicker Over EFSF

-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-09-29T10:57:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/german-industry-chiefs-unite-to-save-euro-as-lawmakers-bicker.html
German executives and industry
leaders joined forces in the fight to save the euro as lawmakers
quarreled over the stakes, drawing the battle lines before a
parliamentary vote on a second Greek bailout.  Germany ’s lower house, the Bundestag, approved an expansion
of Europe’s temporary rescue fund, the European Financial
Stability Facility, in a ballot that split  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government.  Germany, Europe’s largest economy and the single biggest
contributor to the aid, sends more than 40 percent of its
exports to euro-region countries and has the most to gain from
an intact monetary union. Lobby groups, led by the BDI
Federation of German Industries and labor unions under the
umbrella of the Confederation of German Trade Unions, or DGB,
made a last-ditch appeal to lawmakers this week to back the
changes.  “The end of the currency union would cause immense,
incalculable damage to Germany,” Hans-Peter Keitel, the BDI’s
president, said at a Sept. 27 conference in Berlin attended by
Merkel and Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou .  “For this reason, it’s short-sighted to talk only about
the costs” of sovereign rescues, Keitel said. “One thing
that’s needed is political responsibility” and readiness to
make sacrifices, he said.  ‘Yes to Europe’  Kurt Bock, chief executive officer of  BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s
biggest chemical maker; Martin Blessing, the CEO of Commerzbank
AG, Germany’s second-largest lender; and SAP AG’s Jim Hagemann
Snabe, co-CEO of the world’s largest business software maker,
were among the executives of more than 100,000 companies that
the BDI represents who attended the meeting.  On the same day, the DGB took out  ads  in several of the
country’s regional newspapers with the headline: “Yes to
Europe! Yes to the euro!”  “Our mothers and fathers have built a peaceful Europe out
of the ruins of World War II,” the ad read. “Today, we face
the danger of retreating back into national demarcations and
losing sight of what binds us together. Europe needs Germany and
Germany needs Europe, which is why we’re campaigning for
approval of the EFSF umbrella.”  Merkel needed 311 ballots in favor of the changes from the
620 lawmakers sitting in parliament’s lower chamber. Her
Christian Democratic bloc and Free Democratic Party coalition
partner comprise 330 voteholders. The opposition  Social
Democrats  and the Greens had previously indicated they would
support the bill, assuring passage. A total of 523 votes were
cast in favor and 85 against in the final tally.  Undermine Confidence  Reliance on the opposition to approve the package may have
undermined confidence in Merkel’s government at a time when
public support for the FDP has sunk to 2 percent, according to
the weekly Stern-RTL poll published yesterday.  Frank Schaeffler , the FDP’s parliamentary finance
spokesman, said he planned to vote no to the changes because the
mechanics of secondary-market bond purchases by the EFSF haven’t
been discussed in detail.  “I’m a euro realist, not a euro romantic,” Schaeffler
said in a Sept. 27 interview on Phoenix television. “As a
parliamentarian, I see it as necessary to know all the facets
before casting my vote.”  Merkel won a “very clear” majority in her coalition,
according to  Peter Altmaier , the parliamentary whip in Merkel’s
 Christian Democratic Union . “In the end, the unity of the
coalition was stronger than the dissent,” Altmaier told ZDF
television today after the vote.  ‘High Time’  “The situation is serious and it’s high time we did
something about it,” said Franz Fehrenbach, CEO of auto
supplier  Robert Bosch GmbH , in an e-mail. “This isn’t just the
task of politicians. The business community and other
responsible leaders have to take a stand. What’s lacking in the
public debate is a clear commitment to the European ideal and to
the euro. We have to make it clear to the people what
advantages, consequences and possible burdens that these bring
with them.”  German companies were among the greatest advocates of the
single currency at its inception in 1999, having contended for
decades with a surging deutsche mark that hammered exports every
time European neighbors devalued their way out of recession.  Export Market  The euro area is Germany’s biggest export market. Shipments
of German cars, high-speed trains and chemicals have more than
doubled since the single currency was introduced, helping
Siemens AG, BASF and Daimler AG to bounce back from the
financial crisis stronger than their European counterparts.  Exports led the German economy to its strongest growth in
two decades last year, in turn pushing down joblessness to a 20-
year low.  Seventy-five percent of Germans oppose expanding the EFSF,
according to a FG Wahlen poll published Sept. 23. At the same
time, 68 percent of respondents said a Greek default would harm
the German economy. The Sept. 20-22 poll of 1,229 people for ZDF
television has a margin of error of as many as three percentage
points.  “The European economy needs the euro,”  Peter Loescher ,
CEO of Siemens, said in a Sept. 14 television interview. “It’s
a hugely important stabilizing factor for  Europe ’s economic
development. If we in Europe want to have any worldwide
standing, politically or economically, then we are all dependent
on a strong domestic market and the euro is a very, very
important basis for that,” he said in the interview aired on
Sueddeutsche Zeitung’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  