-- 
Five German States Say Inflation Quickened in September

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-09-28T11:20:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/german-state-of-saxony-says-inflation-quickened-in-september.html
Inflation in five German states
accelerated in September as prices for clothing and energy rose.  The inflation rate increased to 2.5 percent from 2.2
percent in Bavaria, to 2.8 percent from 2.3 percent in North
Rhine-Westphalia and to 2.3 percent from 1.9 percent in Hesse,
the states’ statistics offices said today. In Saxony and
Brandenburg, annual inflation rates also climbed. while
remaining unchanged in the state of Baden-Wuerttemberg.  Economists forecast that German inflation, calculated using
a harmonized European Union method, will accelerate to 2.6
percent from 2.5 percent, the median of 20 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey shows. The Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden will release that report, based on data from six
states, later today.  European Central Bank officials have signaled they will
defy calls for lower  interest rates  next month amid a sovereign
debt crisis that’s threatening to push the 17-nation euro region
into recession. Inflation “is likely to stay above” the ECB’s
2 percent limit for the remainder of the year, the Frankfurt-
based central bank said in its monthly report on Sept. 15.  “The ECB certainly has scope to ease,” said  Silvio Peruzzo , euro-area economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in
London. “We’re heading for recession from the fourth quarter,
signs of stress in financial markets are broad-based and market-
based inflation expectations have declined. The inflation
outlook is not the major concern of the ECB.”  Oil, Clothing  In Saxony, consumer prices rose 0.3 percent from the
previous month, today’s report showed. Heating oil costs jumped
4.4 percent from August and fuel prices increased 1.9 percent.
Clothing and shoes were 9.2 percent more expensive than a month
earlier.  The ECB raised borrowing costs twice this year, bringing
the benchmark rate to 1.5 percent, to curb inflation even as the
debt crisis worsened. Economists at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc and  Barclays Capital  forecast policy
makers may reverse those rate increases at their Oct. 6 meeting.  With money markets tightening, officials have indicated the
ECB is more likely to take non-standard measures first before
resorting to rate cuts. Council members  Ewald Nowotny  and  Luc Coene  signaled the ECB may offer banks unlimited liquidity for
as long as a year, while a euro-area central banking official
speaking on condition of anonymity said policy makers will also
debate restarting their covered-bond purchases.  ECB Rates  “The ECB is in a position to help, not so much on interest
rates as in terms of market interventions,” said Laurent Bilke,
global head of inflation strategy at Nomura International Plc in
 London . “Inflation is still pretty high and will stay high
until the end of the year before slowing down in 2012.”  Euro-region inflation probably held at 2.5 percent in
September, a Bloomberg survey shows. Eurostat, the European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg, is scheduled to release
that data on Sept. 30.  Raising rates was “justified” on the back of inflationary
pressure and the economic recovery, ECB Executive Board member
Lorenzo Bini Smaghi told Markit Magazine in an interview
published yesterday. At the same time, “we never said that we
were starting a series of interest-rate hikes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  