-- 
Germany’s Ban on Online-Betting Is Legal, Country’s Top Civil Court Rules

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 
2011-09-28T16:53:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/german-online-betting-ban-upheld-by-appeals-court-in-loss-for-bwin-party.html
Bwin.Party Digital Entertainment
Plc and other Internet-betting companies lost a series of top
appeals court cases over  Germany ’s ban on online gambling.  The Federal Court of Justice, Germany’s highest civil
court, said in five suits brought by state-owned lotteries that
the prohibition is justified to combat dangers associated with
gambling. Shares of Bwin fell as much as 12 percent.  “Because of the greater dangers of the Internet, above all
anonymity, lack of social control and accessibility at any time,
this sales venue can be subject to stricter regulation,”
Presiding Judge Joachim Bornkamm said after the rulings.  The European Union’s top court ruled last year that
Germany’s betting monopoly, which allows most sports betting to
be done only through state-controlled companies, violates
European laws. Germany has faced criticism for allowing private
horse betting while outlawing other forms of private sport bets.
The EU court ruling didn’t bring an end to the various suits
pending in Germany over the issue.  Bwin e.K., the company’s German unit that was involved in
the lawsuit, said it will consider whether to file a
constitutional complaint. Any such step wouldn’t yield a ruling
until the end of this year when the current rules elapse anyway,
the company said.  ‘Won’t Last’  “The ban violates European rules and won’t last,” Bwin
e.K. said. “A regulated market opening is the only way to
combat the black market in Germany and to comply with EU
requirements.”  German states are debating on how to revise their state
treaty that sets current rules. The state of Schleswig-Holstein
has decided to open its market. The state treaty, which took
effect in 2008 and is elapsing on Dec. 31, was an effort to take
earlier rulings by the EU court and the nation’s constitutional
court into account.  Bwin shares fell 6.7 percent to 119.2 pence at the close of
London trading after falling as much as 12 percent following the
ruling.  Today’s decision matches a June ruling by Germany’s top
administrative court, which also cleared the online ban because
it covers private offers and government-owned lotteries.  “When looking into whether a regime is coherent, you don’t
have to look at the total market,” Bornkamm said. “The online
sector is a marked-out area that can easily be viewed as
isolated.”  While the states tolerate private horse race betting on the
Internet in practice, the volume of those bets is so small they
don’t make the whole system incoherent, the judge said.  The court rejected the arguments that Bwin e.K. could make
use of a license issued by the former East German government or
that exceptions need to apply to companies who hold license from
other European countries.  “Our ruling is valid only for the rules that apply until
the end of this year,” said Bornkamm.  Today’s cases are, BGH I ZR 189/08 et al.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  