-- 
German Inflation Accelerates to 2.8%, Reaching Fastest Pace in Three Years

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-09-28T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/german-inflation-accelerates-to-2-8-reaching-fastest-pace-in-three-years.html
Inflation in  Germany ,  Europe ’s
biggest economy, accelerated more than economists forecast in
September to the fastest pace in three years.  The inflation rate, calculated using a harmonized European
Union method, increased to 2.8 percent from 2.5 percent in
August, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.
That’s the highest since September 2008. Economists predicted
the rate would rise to 2.6 percent, according to the median of
20 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Prices advanced 0.1
percent in the month.  European Central Bank officials have signaled they will
defy calls for lower interest rates next month amid a sovereign
debt crisis that’s threatening to push the 17-nation euro region
into recession. Inflation “is likely to stay above” the ECB’s
2 percent limit for the remainder of the year, the Frankfurt-
based central bank said in its monthly report on Sept. 15.  “Given an environment of accelerating price pressure it’s
psychologically pretty difficult for the ECB to lower  interest
rates  even though the bank has some room left to act,” said
Stephan Rieke, an economist at BHF Bank in Frankfurt. “However,
inflation risks are clearly tilted to the downside and the rate
may fall toward the ECB’s ceiling by year-end.”  The statistics office said the main inflation drivers in
September were higher prices for mineral oil products as well as
clothing and shoes. The state of Saxony said today that heating
oil costs jumped 4.4 percent from August and clothing and shoes
were 9.2 percent more expensive.  Non-Harmonized Inflation  On a non-harmonized basis, German inflation accelerated to
2.6 percent in September, also the fastest in three years, from
2.4 percent last month. Economists forecast it would hold
steady.  The ECB raised borrowing costs twice this year, bringing
the benchmark rate to 1.5 percent, to curb inflation even as the
debt crisis worsened. Economists at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc and  Barclays Capital  forecast policy
makers may reverse those rate increases at their Oct. 6 meeting.  With money markets tightening, officials have indicated the
ECB is more likely to take non-standard measures first before
resorting to rate cuts. Council members  Ewald Nowotny  and  Luc Coene  signaled the ECB may offer banks unlimited liquidity for
as long as a year, while a euro-area central banking official
speaking on condition of anonymity said policy makers will also
debate restarting their covered-bond purchases.  ‘Still Pretty High’  “The ECB is in a position to help, not so much on interest
rates as in terms of market interventions,” said Laurent Bilke,
global head of inflation strategy at Nomura International Plc in
 London . “Inflation is still pretty high and will stay high
until the end of the year before slowing down in 2012.”  Euro-region inflation probably held at 2.5 percent in
September, a Bloomberg survey shows. Eurostat, the European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg, is scheduled to release
that data on Sept. 30.  Raising rates was “justified” on the back of inflationary
pressure and the economic recovery, ECB Executive Board member
Lorenzo Bini Smaghi told Markit Magazine in an interview
published yesterday. At the same time, “we never said that we
were starting a series of interest-rate hikes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Vits in  Frankfurt  at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  