-- 
Gilts Fall for Fourth Day as European Optimism Reduces Demand for Safety

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-09-28T16:34:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/gilts-advance-as-recession-concern-increases-demand-for-safety.html
U.K. government bonds fell for a
fourth day as speculation European policy makers will devise
long-term solutions to the region’s sovereign-debt crisis,
damped demand for safer assets.  The 10-year gilt erased earlier gains as European
Commission President  Jose Barroso  said the region’s permanent
bailout fund should start sooner and a study on introducing
common bonds in coming weeks will be presented. Bank of England
policy maker  David Miles  signaled he may be moving closer to
voting for more asset purchases to spur growth. The yield on the
10-year Treasury climbed eight basis points. The pound was
within one cent of a one-week high against the dollar.  “Gilts are drifting lower with Treasuries ahead of the
five-year note auction in the U.S.,” said Eric Wand, a fixed-
income strategist at Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets in London.
“They outperformed bunds and Treasuries quite well today, but
it looks like there’s a bit of late profit taking, driven by the
selloff in the U.S.”  The yield on the 10-year gilt rose two basis points to 2.55
percent at the 5 p.m. close in London. It climbed to 2.57
percent yesterday, the most since Sept. 15. The 3.75 percent
security due September 2020 dropped 0.150, or 1.50 pounds per
1,000-pound ($1,563) face amount, to 110.435. The two-year yield
gained three basis points to 0.59 percent.  Gilts dropped as Barroso called for the faster creation of
a permanent-rescue fund and appealed to central bankers to use
their powers as the ultimate line of defense against the
region’s debt crisis.  ‘Substantial Ammunition’  The  Bank of England  has “substantial ammunition” if
needed, and the case for more quantitative easing “has become
in my mind quite finely balanced,” Miles said in an interview
in the  Times newspaper  published today. “It wasn’t quite as
closely balanced a decision two or three months back, before we
really got the bad news over the summer.”  Gilts have returned 2.3 percent in September and 9.6
percent this year, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.
German debt has gained 7.3 percent in 2011 and U.S. Treasuries
rose 8.6 percent, the indexes show.  The U.K. Debt Management Office said State Street Bank
Europe Ltd. will act as a gilt-edged market maker in the
wholesale sector of the conventional gilt market from Oct. 10.
This increases the number of primary dealer firms in the U.K.
government bond market to 22, the DMO said in a statement.  The pound was little changed at $1.5637 after rising to
$1.5706 yesterday, the highest level since Sept. 21. The British
currency fell 0.2 percent to 87.07 pence per euro.  Sterling has strengthened 1.7 percent in the past three
months, paring its drop over the previous year to 3.7 percent,
the worst performer among 10 developed-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Jenkins in  London  at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  