-- 
GM’s Facebook Moment Brings U-Turn on OnStar Settings: Cars

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-09-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/gm-s-facebook-moment-brings-u-turn-on-onstar-settings-cars.html
Dan Akerson should have spent more
time paying attention to Facebook.  The  General Motors Co. (GM)  chief executive officer had to scale
back ambitions yesterday for the automaker’s OnStar service,
reversing a decision to track the locations of people who left
the program after a flap in  Washington  about privacy concerns.
Facebook Inc. came under fire several times in the past two
years for making privacy settings hard for users to understand
and control.  “It just feels to some consumers like they’re being
betrayed or somehow tricked,” Heidi Shey, an analyst at
Forrester Research, said in a phone interview. Personal data and
privacy issues make up “a very sensitive area that hasn’t been
figured out in terms of how this information can be used or
should be used.”  GM said yesterday it will disable the data connection to
vehicles once customers cancel the OnStar navigation, safety and
security service. The Detroit-based automaker had said last week
it would keep collecting information and may sell it under terms
of service due to go into effect Dec. 1.  Akerson, a telecom industry veteran, has pushed OnStar to
become a differentiating feature that would boost sales. While
information on drivers’ habits is valuable, some of the
opportunity was squandered because GM poorly communicated its
move, said Jeremy Anwyl, CEO of auto researcher Edmunds.com.  Facebook Foibles  Facebook introduced simpler privacy settings in May of 2010
and reduced the amount of user information that was publicly
available after adding features that shared data with outside
websites. CEO  Mark Zuckerberg  also changed how the  Palo Alto ,
California-based company handles user-location and facial-
recognition features earlier this year.  “Facebook pushes as hard as they can until everybody
pushes back, and then they back up a little bit and hopes in the
future you won’t be paying as much attention,” Anwyl said.
“They’ve even changed the vocabulary so that we talk about
‘sharing’ instead of tracking. That’s a very nice spin on
something people look at as invasions of privacy.”  OnStar will now let customers decide whether to allow a
data connection and how the automaker treats what it collects,
said Vijay Iyer, a company spokesman.  GM had the right idea to try to use OnStar to get
information on how customers drive, said Roger Lanctot, an
analyst with Strategy Analytics Inc., which advises automakers
on navigation and telematics systems. Had OnStar offered
customers a choice from the start and given perks to those who
opted in, it would have gotten participation without seeming
invasive, he said.  ‘Wrong Way’  “They were doing what they should be doing but in the
wrong way,” Lanctot said in a phone interview. “This data is
worth hundreds of millions of dollars. To offer nothing is a
kick in the teeth.”  OnStar received no contact from the Federal Trade
Commission as of yesterday, Iyer said. Senator  Charles Schumer 
of  New York  had called on the regulator to investigate the data-
collection policy. Senators  Al Franken  of  Minnesota  and
Christopher Coons of  Delaware  also objected to the information
tracking in a letter to the company last week. All three are
Democrats.  “Many of our customers or subscribers were really unhappy
with the decision,” Linda Marshall, OnStar’s president, said
yesterday in a phone interview. OnStar failed to make clear that
it wanted to be able to share information on warranties and
recalls with customers that canceled the service, she said.  Anonymous Data  The company, under its existing privacy policy, may still
sell or share “anonymized” data on current customers’ vehicle
location, speed and seat-belt use with third parties.  OnStar, which GM started in 1996, provides accident alerts,
stolen-vehicle tracking and navigation to buyers of new
 Chevrolet , GMC, Cadillac and Buick vehicles. GM began selling
OnStar FMV, an aftermarket version, in July for $300 plus
subscription fees that start at $199 a year.  Automakers face “huge” pressure to innovate on technology
that monitors and communicates the health of their vehicles,
Forrester Research said in an Aug. 11 report that warned of
possible consumer backlash against the industry.  GM updated OnStar’s hardware beginning with the 2011
Chevrolet Cruze to allow users to listen to Facebook updates
using voice commands. OnStar has said it is testing similar
capabilities for text messaging and Twitter.  OnStar generates more than $1 billion in annual revenue and
is profitable, Greg Ross, vice president of business extensions,
said in a January interview at the Detroit auto show.  GM’s OnStar competes with systems such as  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s
Sync,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Safety Connect and Lexus Enform, and
 Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ’s Blue Link.  Ford’s Stumble  Carbuyers have balked at new technology before, Forrester
noted in its August report. Ford, plagued by malfunctions of its
dashboard touch-screens running Sync technology, saw its
namesake brand fall to 23rd from fifth in J.D. Power &
Associates’ new-car quality survey in June.  Akerson, who previously led Nextel Communications Inc. and
MCI Communications Corp., told reporters less than a month after
becoming CEO that he had already taken a “deep dive” into
OnStar.  “It used to be the automotive version of ‘I’ve fallen and
I can’t get up,’” he said in a briefing with reporters in
September 2010. “I don’t want that; the team does not want that.
There are plans in place. It’s exciting, it’s differentiating
and it may be one of those variables in a purchase decision that
tips in our advantage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  