-- 
GM Says UAW Contract Raises Labor Costs $215 Million by 2013

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h ,   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-09-28T21:13:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/gm-uaw-members-ratify-four-year-labor-agreement-ford-accord-may-be-next.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  said its new
labor contract will cost the company $215 million over the next
three years as it raises wages for entry-level employees and
buys out its most expensive laborers.  Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson told analysts during a
conference call that the new contract keeps GM competitive with
only a marginal boost to its $5 billion a year labor tab. Wage
increases for entry-level workers, $5,000 signing bonuses and
other benefits add up to $675 million through 2013. GM got $460
million in savings to partially offset pay increases, the
 company said .  Labor costs will rise 1 percent a year, which is the
smallest increase in a GM contract in four decades, GM said. By
keeping labor cost increases in check, GM will be able to add
jobs and reopen one plant in the U.S., Akerson said.  “The new agreement presents an opportunity for more U.S.
jobs and for expanding production capacity as the market
allows,” Akerson said on the call. “This agreement positions
the company for growth and success.”  UAW members ratified the contract with 65 percent of
production workers and 63 percent of skilled-trades workers
voting in favor, the union  said . GM, the biggest U.S. carmaker,
and the UAW agreed to the accord late on Sept. 16.  GM said it has eliminated the jobs bank, a paid-layoff
clause in past contracts that required the company to give
furloughed workers most of their wages. New hires, who start at
$14.78 per hour, will not get a pension, GM said. Instead, they
will have a defined-contribution plan such as a 401(k).  No Pension Boost  GM also did not boost the pension payments for existing
retirees for the first time since 1953, said Chief Financial
Officer Dan Ammann. The company held the line on wages for
senior workers, whose wage rates are about double that of entry-
level employees, Ammann said.  The company said it can break even with annual U.S.
industrywide light-vehicle sales of 10.5 million.  “If they could get agreements like this every four years,
it will help out everyone including the union,” David Whiston,
an equity analyst with Chicago-based investment research firm
Morningstar Inc. said in a telephone interview.  The automaker’s new profit-sharing plan for UAW workers
closely resembles the formula of the previous contract and is
aligned with the plan used for GM’s salaried employees, Ammann
said. The union has said annual profit-sharing payments will be
based on GM’s earnings in  North America  instead of just the U.S.  “The profit-sharing plan allows all employees to share in
our success while protecting the company from a downturn,”
Ammann said on the call.  Plant to Reopen  GM will reopen its former Saturn plant in  Spring Hill,
Tennessee , as part of an “innovative staffing and operating
agreement” that allows GM to build different vehicles on
several platforms, Ammann said, without providing details. The
UAW has said GM will begin adding about 500 jobs at the factory
next year and 610 starting in 2013.  The new GM contract covers 48,500 hourly workers and the
union is attempting to use it to set a pattern in labor
negotiations with Ford, where talks intensified on Sept. 26, and
Fiat SpA-controlled Chrysler Group LLC. UAW President  Bob King 
has said workers must be rewarded for the $7,000 to $30,000 in
concessions they each gave since 2005 to help U.S. automakers.  “I think they will get a deal at Ford,” said Art Schwartz, a former GM labor negotiator and now president of
Labor & Economics Associates in Ann Arbor,  Michigan . “It will
look like the GM deal but probably a little richer.”  Ford Talks  Ford is discussing adding as many as 10,000 jobs in the
U.S. in its talks with the UAW, according to three people
familiar with the negotiations. The job-creation discussion is
part of negotiations over wages and is subject to change, said
the people, who asked not to be identified revealing internal
deliberations.  GM agreed to give workers as much as $9,000 in cash
payments over the contract, plus increased profit-sharing
payments. Ford workers may expect more because the automaker
avoided the bankruptcies that befell GM and Chrysler in 2009.  The UAW surrendered the right to strike at GM and Chrysler
in these talks as part of their U.S.-backed bankruptcies in
2009. Any unresolved issues would have been subject to binding
arbitration. Ford’s UAW members rejected a strike ban.  Workers at Detroit-based GM, Ford and Chrysler received
signing bonuses of $3,000 after they ratified 2007 labor
contracts. Prior to that, such bonuses had been around $1,000.
The union had sought signing bonuses of $8,000 to $10,000, four
people familiar with the proposal have said.  ‘Important Gains’  “The UAW and GM entered into this set of bargaining as
America struggles with record levels of unemployment and an
economy that shows little sign of improvement,” the UAW’s King
said in a statement. “We not only stopped proposed givebacks,
but we made important gains for our members in this contract.”  In addition to the signing bonus, GM agreed to pay workers
$1,000 “inflation protection” payments over the next three
years and $250 a year over four years if quality targets are
met.  Profit-sharing payments may reach $28,000 for each union
member,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  estimated in a Sept. 26 report. The
projection was based on Morgan Stanley’s forecast of GM’s North
American earnings before interest and taxes through 2014. The
payments may reduce GM’s profit per vehicle to about $6,650 from
$7,000, the report said.  In 2012, profit sharing will equal at least $3,500 for 2011
profits based on first-half performance, the union has said.  The automaker also agreed to invest $2.5 billion in U.S.
plants over the life of the contract, the UAW said.  Buyout Packages  GM will offer buyout packages worth as much as $75,000 to
its roughly 10,000 skilled-trades workers, the Detroit-based UAW
said Sept. 20 in a briefing with reporters. Other employees
eligible to retire can take $10,000 to stop working within two
years so that GM can replace them with new hires.  GM fell 78 cents, or 3.7 percent, to $20.41 a share at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have slid 38 percent from its initial public offering price of
$33 in November.  GM will save $30 an hour for every skilled-trade employee
who leaves and is replaced by a lower-paid worker, Kristin Dziczek, director of the labor and industry group at the Center
for Automotive Research in  Ann Arbor , Michigan, has said. That
adds up to $57,000 a year per worker who is replaced, she said.  About 4,000 skilled-trades employees and 11,550 production
workers are eligible to retire, according to GM.  GM will save or add 6,400 jobs under the union contract,
the union has estimated.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  