-- Goldman Sachs Wins Appeal of Ruling Dismissing CDO Suit
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-04-19T16:46:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/goldman-wins-dismissal-of-suit-over-cdo-loss.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  won an
appeal of a ruling that dismissed a suit against it by
Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg over losses on $37 million in
collateralized debt obligations.  The federal appeals court in New York today upheld a ruling
by U.S. District Judge William Pauley III, who threw the case
out in September. Pauley ruled that the bank’s complaint didn’t
include sufficient fraud allegations against Goldman Sachs and
against Los Angeles-based TCW Asset Management Co., which
manages collateral for asset-backed securities.  LBBW, based in Stuttgart,  Germany , sued in October 2010
over its losses on Davis Square, a CDO collateralized by
residential mortgage-backed securities that was underwritten by
Goldman Sachs in 2006.  “The complaint in this case does not ascribe to Goldman or
TCW any particular motive for committing fraud beyond a general
profit motive common to all corporations, which does not
suffice,” a three-judge panel of the appeals court in  Manhattan 
said in an unsigned order.  Goldman Sachs, based in New York, and TCW sold the Davis
Square securities to institutional investors, marketing them as
a $2 billion “High Grade Structured Product CDO” backed by
investment-grade mortgage-backed securities, Pauley said in his
opinion. LBBW bought two notes totaling $37 million.  A phone call to an LBBW spokesman, Alexander Braun, wasn’t
immediately returned.  The case is Landesbank Baden-Wurttemberg v. Goldman Sachs,
1:10-cv-07549, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan). The appeal is Landesbank Baden-Wurttemberg v.
Goldman, Sachs & Co., 11-44432,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in  New York 
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 