-- 
Gome Plunges After Announcing Venture With Jailed Founder

-- B y   M a r c o   L u i
-- 
2011-09-28T09:45:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/gome-plunges-after-announcing-venture-with-jailed-founder-1-.html
Gome Electrical Appliances Holding
Ltd.,  China ’s second-largest electronics retailer, fell the most
in more than a year in  Hong Kong  trading after saying it plans
to set up a property venture with its jailed founder.  Gome plunged 11 percent, the biggest decline since Aug. 6,
2010, to close at HK$2.34 on the city’s stock exchange. The
benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  declined 0.7 percent.  The Beijing-based home appliances retailer will form a
venture with units associated with billionaire founder and
controlling shareholder Wong Kwong Yu, also known as Huang
Guangyu, to “engage in property development and investment” in
China, according to a statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange
yesterday. The registered capital of the property venture will
be 200 million yuan ($31 million), it said.  “Investors prefer Gome’s management to focus on its
existing retail business,” said  Ben Kwong , chief operating
officer at KGI Asia Ltd. in Hong Kong. “A deviation from its
core business to the property sector brings uncertainties to the
company’s prospects.”  Huang is serving a 14-year jail term on bribery and insider
trading charges. He won a boardroom battle with Gome’s previous
chairman  Chen Xiao  from prison earlier this year to reassert his
influence. Gome is China’s second-biggest electronics retailer.  A property venture will help Gome “increase its portfolio
of stores that operate from self-owned properties, thereby lower
the operating costs and increase the margin of the group,” it
said in the statement yesterday.  Gome plans 260 new shops this year and aims for 2,400
outlets by 2014, President Wang Jun Zhou said Aug. 29. The
number of stores rose to 938 at the end of June from 826 at the
end of 2010, according to an exchange filing last month.  Huang and his wife Lisa  Du Juan  own almost a third of Gome,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Marco Lui at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  