-- 
Google’s Motorola Mobility Takeover Faces Longer Justice Department Review

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-09-28T23:07:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/google-s-motorola-mobility-takeover-faces-longer-justice-department-review.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc. received a request for additional information from
the U.S. Department of Justice’s antitrust division, lengthening
the review of the search giant’s proposed takeover.  The companies intend to “fully cooperate” and “respond
expeditiously” to the  Justice Department , according to a
regulatory filing by Motorola Mobility. Google’s acquisition of
the company, first announced in August, is expected to close by
the end of this year or in early 2012.  “While this means we won’t be closing right away, we’re
confident that the DOJ will conclude that the rapidly growing
mobile ecosystem will remain highly competitive after this deal
closes,” Google said in a blog post. “We’ll be working closely
and cooperatively with them as they continue their review.”  Google, which makes the Android mobile-phone operating
system used by Motorola Mobility, is counting on the $12.5
billion deal to bolster its intellectual-property holdings and
expand its reach in the mobile industry. Motorola Mobility has
more than 17,000 patents that Google can use in its legal
tussles with rivals such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   Google said the Justice Department request is “pretty
routine.” The so-called second request allows the agency to
extend its review of the transaction.  Splitting Duties  While the Justice Department’s antitrust division reviews
Google’s acquisitions for their possible effects on competition,
the Federal Trade Commission is conducting a broader
investigation of the company’s dominance of Internet search.  “We’re looking at the proposed transaction,” said  Gina Talamona , a Justice Department spokeswoman. She declined to
comment further.  The Justice Department is also reviewing Google’s proposed
$400 million acquisition of Admeld Inc., an Internet advertising
company that would help Google increase its share of the online
ad market.  Google, based in Mountain View,  California , fell $10.50 to
$528.84 today on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have
declined 11 percent this year.  Motorola Mobility, located in Libertyville,  Illinois , fell
14 cents to $37.90 on the New York Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  