-- 
Google Drops Court Protest That Federal Contract Bidding Favors Microsoft

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-29T00:42:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/google-bid-protest-against-u-s-dismissed-by-federal-judge.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  dropped its lawsuit
alleging that the bidding requirements for a $59.3 million
contract to supply e-mail services to the U.S. Interior
Department unfairly favored  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)   Google sought to end the lawsuit in the U.S. Court of
Federal Claims after the Interior Department said it would
reopen competition. U.S. Federal Claims Judge Susan Braden in
Washington said in a ruling today that dismissal of the case is
in “the interests of justice.”  Lawyers for the government told Braden during a hearing
yesterday that the research the department relied upon in July
2010 “is now stale in light of new developments in technology
and entrants to the market,” according to the ruling.  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , sued the
Interior Department in October, alleging that a planned e-mail
contract unfairly favored Microsoft products and didn’t give
full consideration to the company’s “Google Apps for
Government” product. Company lawyers argued that Interior
didn’t follow federal procurement laws, which favor “full and
open” competition.  In a Sept. 22 motion to dismiss the case, lawyers for
Google said Interior had agreed to update its market research
and seek a contract for cloud e-mail services “in a manner that
will not preclude plaintiffs from fairly competing.”  ‘Justifiable Basis’  Braden said on Sept. 1 there was a “justifiable basis”
for her to find the agency violated federal laws requiring fair
competition in the way it conducted the procurement.  “We’re pleased with the outcome of our discussions with
the  Department of Interior , and look forward to the opportunity
to compete for its business and save taxpayers money,” Andrew Kovacs, a Google spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Matt Donovan, a spokesman for Microsoft, said the company
is “pleased” the Interior Department “can proceed to obtain
the secure e-mail system it needs.”  “We are fully prepared to continue competing for the
Department’s business and are confident that we offer the best
cloud solutions and value,” Donavan said in an e-mail.  Charles Miller , a spokesman for the  Justice Department , had
no immediate comment on the dismissal.  Google is competing with Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft to gain a foothold in the $20 billion market to
provide so-called cloud computing services to federal government
agencies. Cloud services allow government agencies and
businesses to have software and data delivered as a service over
the Internet.  The case is Google Inc. v. U.S., 10-743, U.S. Court of
Federal Claims ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  