-- 
Greek Bondholders May Face 40% Loss, Armstrong Investment Says

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-09-28T13:47:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/greek-bondholders-may-face-40-loss-armstrong-investment-says.html
Investors in Greek sovereign debt
will probably have to accept losses of around 40 percent on
their holdings, according to Armstrong Investment Managers.  “Our base case is that there will be a 40 percent
writedown,” Patrick Armstrong, managing partner at Armstrong
Investment, which has $345 million in assets under management
said in a telephone interview. “There’s a consensus that Greek
bonds will be written down more than planned in the previous
bailout and the private sector will participate more than they
had to in the previous bail out. That’s the way sentiment and
the rhetoric from policy makers is going.”  Greece became the first of  Europe ’s most indebted economies
to need outside aid in May 2010, forcing it to implement
austerity programs after its borrowing costs surged to records,
locking the nation out of the debt markets. After a 110 billion-
euro ($150 billion) bailout package proved insufficient,
politicians want private investors to participate in a new 159
billion-euro plan for the nation.  German lawmakers have called on lenders in recent days to
accept a larger writedown than the 21 percent proposed by
industry lobby group the  Institute of International Finance ,
according to a person briefed on the talks, who declined to be
identified because the talks are private.  The IIF suggested in July banks participate in a bond
exchange and buyback program under which they would accept
voluntary losses on their investments. The European Commission
said today it is unaware of any moves to increase private
bondholders’ share in  Greece ’s next bailout.  ‘Bigger Haircut’  Greek two-year yields fell nine basis points to 69.96
percent at 2:45 p.m. in London, while 10-year yields dropped 30
basis points to 23.02 percent.  Bondholders will have to take a larger loss, or so-called
haircut, on their investments “to make sure that the German
population and the others who are going to guarantee various
bailout funds feel that there’s enough private-sector
participation in the pain,” Armstrong said. “The market is
discounting a much bigger haircut as well if you look at the
prices of the bonds.”  The London-based  fund manager  owns a “small amount” of
Greek 4.3 percent bonds due March 20, 2012, which it bought in
July, Armstrong said.  While he thinks Greece will definitely default, Armstrong’s
fund profited earlier this year from buying short-dated Greek
paper, which has since matured, and betting it would be paid
back in full before the Mediterranean nation declared itself
bankrupt.  “The best-case scenario for us is that a new writedown is
planned and by the time everything is sorted out it is after
March 2012,” when our bonds mature, Armstrong said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 