-- 
Gundlach Has No Europe Bets, Likes Corporates

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-09-28T18:11:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/gundlach-s-doubleline-has-zero-euro-exposure-as-losses-loom.html
Jeffrey Gundlach ’s DoubleLine
Capital LP is invested only in U.S. dollar-denominated assets in
a bid to avoid losses stemming from  Europe ’s debt crisis.  “All of our international exposure is in dollars,”
Gundlach, the founder and head of Los Angeles-based DoubleLine,
said at a panel sponsored by the firm in  New York  today.
“There’s a big loss in Europe and all we want to do as
investors is make sure as best we can that we’re not the ones
taking the loss. How do you do it? No investments in Europe.”  DoubleLine is also avoiding U.S. banks because of possible
exposure to the crisis and favors investment-grade corporate debt
because defaults may rise in lower-rated bonds next year.
Gundlach, who managed the top-rated intermediate-term U.S. bond
mutual fund for 15 years, began cutting exposure to  junk bonds 
in the fourth quarter of 2010, even as Bank of America Corp. and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. strategists forecast the riskiest debt
to return as much as 10 percent this year.  “Investment-grade corporate bonds have done very well,”
said Gundlach, who has attracted $17 billion in assets since
founding DoubleLine in December 2009. “The investment-grade
bonds DoubleLine holds had a bad August with all risk assets,
but prices are nearing their highs. It’s a totally different
story in below investment-grade, where we see the market really
has collapsed.”  TCW Lawsuit  Gundlach, who was fired from TCW Group Inc., won a $66.7
million jury award on Sept. 16 against his former employer for
unpaid wages. Gundlach, 51, who has to share the money with
three of his colleagues, was also found to have breached his
fiduciary duty to TCW and misappropriated its  trade secrets . The
Los Angeles jury awarded the company no damages on the breach
claim. A judge will determine damages on the trade-secret claim.  Investors worldwide have been piling into government debt
such as U.S. Treasuries or German bunds as they seek a refuge
from Europe’s widening sovereign debt crisis. The European
Commission is resisting a push to impose bigger writedowns on
banks’ holdings of Greek government debt than those agreed on at
a July 21 summit, a European official said today on condition of
anonymity because the deliberations are private.  The euro has fallen 1.7 percent during past three months
against nine developed-market peers, taking its 12-month decline
to 2.3 percent, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes.  High-Yield Debt  Junk bonds have declined 2.1 percent this month for a loss
this year of 0.1 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show. Spreads on speculative-grade company notes, rated
below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- by
 Standard & Poor’s , have widened 62 basis points this month to
792 basis points after soaring to 750 basis points on Aug. 26.  “I like junk bonds a lot better than I did six months ago,
but I am not ready to buy them yet,” he said. “The high yield
bond market is going to have a default problem in late 2012 or
2013.”  Moody’s Investors Service forecast the speculative-grade
default  rate will “remain low”  at 2.2 percent a year from
now, compared with 2.1 percent in August, according to a Sept.
22 statement. That compares with a peak of 14.5 percent amid the
credit crisis in November 2009.  “We’re not going to be ready to jump back in to high yield
basically until  Greece  is solved,” said Bonnie Baha, head of
DoubleLine’s global developed credit group.  Even with the yield on the 10-year Treasury notes below 2
percent, long-term  government bonds  make sense as a hedge,
Gundlach said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  