-- 
Libya’s Bourse to Resume Trading by February, Chairman Says

-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 
2011-09-28T14:49:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/libya-s-bourse-to-resume-trading-by-february-chairman-says-1-.html
Trading on the Libyan Stock
Exchange will resume in January or February after an armed
rebellion against the regime of  Muammar Qaddafi  forced it to
close, Chairman Ahmed Karoud said today.  Karoud hopes the leadership change in the North African
nation would introduce fresh regulations and help attract
foreign investors to the five-year-old exchange. Foreigners own
less than 1 percent of the shares listed on the bourse, Karoud
said in an interview in Tripoli.  “We want new rules,” said Karoud, the new head of the
exchange, which has been closed since Feb. 20. “We want foreign
investors in  Libya .”  Business in Libya, an Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries oil producer, is starting to return to normal after a
seven-month revolution toppled Qaddafi’s regime. Members of the
ruling National Transitional Council are negotiating a new
government as fighting continues in two cities still controlled
by Qaddafi loyalists.  The bourse has 13 listed companies, including the exchange
itself, with a combined market capitalization of about 3.9
billion dinars ($3.2 billion), Karoud said. The biggest
companies include Gumhouria Bank, Sahara Bank and Wahda Bank,
which together account for about half of the market
capitalization, he said.  Cash Transfers  Karoud said he is waiting for an end to the violence and
for the establishment of a government before trading resumes. He
voiced hope that the new cabinet would pass a law that would
allow foreign investors to transfer money outside the country to
increase interest in the exchange.  Initial public offerings that were planned for June by
Libyana and Almadar, the country’s two mobile telephone
operators, may be scheduled for next year, he said. The bourse
may also begin to list funds next year, he said.  Shares fell about 6 percent on Feb. 17, the day the revolt
started, Karoud said. In May, Qaddafi forces demanded the
exchange to open at a time when banks were closed and the
bourse’s branch in the city of Benghazi was under rebel control.  The Qaddafi regime wanted “to say to the world, its OK. We
have no problems,” Karoud said. When the bourse’s management
refused to reopen, the exchange was given 24 hours to vacate the
trading floor in Omar Mukhtar neighborhood, he said. The bourse
moved to an area on the western outskirts of the city. A digital
trading board still stands overlooking a busy street at the
exchange’s previous location.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Inal Ersan at 
 iersan@bloomberg.net  