-- 
Mick Jagger Can’t Compete With Divas, Says Angela Gheorghiu

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-09-28T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/mick-jagger-can-t-compete-with-divas-says-angela-gheorghiu.html
Angela Gheorghiu, draped in red
taffeta with raven hair tumbling down one shoulder, treats a
handful of journalists to a Puccini aria.  The Romanian-born diva is in London promoting a season of
 Royal Opera House  filmed performances, three starring herself.
After her media-only recital in a Covent Garden ballet studio,
the diva, who has been known to cancel performances and miss
rehearsals, tells the master of ceremonies that she constantly
needs rest, and “that’s why sometimes I’m a bad girl.”  Moments later, Gheorghiu appears at a champagne reception
in borrowed diamonds and more Vivienne Westwood couture, this
time a sequined white corset dress. With the TV camera rolling,
she defends the cinema venture, though it may shrink her
audience.  “I believe in cameras and microphones, and I believe in
everything recorded, because this is the only way to leave a
testimony, for an interpreter,” says the diva, pursing her lips
to even out the gloss. “The most sensual, the most powerful and
the most sexy instrument in the world is the human voice.”  The Royal Opera House is striving to build up opera and
ballet audiences by piping 10 productions, five of them live,
into some 700 movie theaters worldwide. The season opener was
last night’s live broadcast of Gounod’s “Faust,” with
Gheorghiu. Her recorded performances of “Adriana Lecouvreur”
and “Tosca” are set for October and November, respectively.  Unplugged Power  Gheorghiu sees the venture as a way to educate audiences:
make them aware that not all voices are equal.  “People must know that in the opera house we are not using
microphones,” she notes. “It’s acoustic sound from the choir,
from the singers and from the orchestra -- real, not-playback,
not-overdone sound.”  “Imagine in a stadium a concert with the  Rolling Stones .
They have a big sound. But you know why? Because they are
plugged in!” she says with a laugh.  “If you do this, no sound!” she cheers, making a dramatic
unplugging gesture. “In opera, we don’t need that.”  The cinema link is also a way to raise the profile. “It’s
a new step to have, all over the world, people looking at opera
singers,” she says. “We are like everybody. We want to be
admired. I really want to make you understand what I’m doing
after years of study and work.”  Is opera as an art form thriving or dying?  “Starting with me, living! Long live opera!” she says
with another laugh. “Thousands of people are interested in our
work. We are speaking about music that was not composed
yesterday. We are still here. Classical music is forever.”  Taste, Spirit  Gheorghiu -- who says she shares Tosca’s profession as
singer but not her tragic destiny -- seems, like Puccini’s
heroine, to live for art. “I like life, I like love. I’m in
love with music and art. I’m a real woman who is enjoying
everything that’s nice and tasteful and also with a lot of
spirit.”  The 46-year-old diva, who had a public falling out with her
tenor husband Roberto Alagna earlier this decade, is happily
back with him. As she told  London ’s  Daily Express  in March, she
dreams of relaxing at home with Alagna and finally getting pets.
She wants a dog, and he wants three horses.  At the cinema launch she offers few glimpses of her life
off stage, listing only “rest” as a priority. Pets are not
mentioned. As for sports, she did athletics in school, and it’s
helped her breathing. “The rest is my private life,” she says
with a smile, “and I think it will remain private.”  So the conversation ends with a mix of the public and the
private: She and Alagna will be reunited on stage at the Royal
Opera House next year, performing “ La Boheme .”  “I made with Roberto my debut here at Covent Garden in
1992, and next year it will be our anniversary of 20 years in
the same performance,” says Gheorghiu. “So I’m glad to sing
with Roberto again, here in the opera house.”  Royal Opera House Cinema is sponsored by Bank of America
Merrill Lynch. Information:  http://www.roh.org.uk/cinema  and
 http://www.angelagheorghiu.com   To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 