-- 
Tiki Barber, Bill Cowher Among Nominees for Pro Football Hall of Fame

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-28T20:42:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/tiki-barber-bill-cowher-among-nominees-for-pro-football-hall-of-fame.html
Former  New York Giants  running back
Tiki Barber and Super Bowl-winning coach Bill Cowher are among
the first-year candidates eligible for induction into the  Pro
Football Hall of Fame .  Wide receiver Keyshawn Johnson, quarterback Drew Bledsoe
and offensive lineman Will Shields are among the other former
players nominated for the first time.  The list of 103 candidates will be reduced to 25 in
November by the Hall of Fame’s selection committee. The 15
modern-era finalists will be announced in early January and the
2012 inductees will be named on Feb. 4, the day before the Super
Bowl in Indianapolis.  Hall of Fame by-laws provide for between four and seven new
members to be selected each year.  Barber, 36, spent his entire 10-year National Football
League career with the Giants, becoming their career rushing
leader with 10,449 yards. He attempted a comeback this year
after he separated from his wife and lost his broadcasting job,
yet wasn’t signed by any NFL teams.  Cowher, 54, spent 15 seasons as coach of the Pittsburgh
Steelers and retired almost a year after winning the  Super Bowl 
following the 2005 season. He had a 149-90-1 record with the
Steelers and is now an NFL analyst for  CBS Sports .  Bill Parcells  and Marty Schottenheimer are among the other
former coaches eligible for induction.  Parcells, who won two Super Bowl titles with the Giants,
was on the ballot from 2001-03 before the Hall of Fame modified
its bylaws to require players and coaches to be retired for five
consecutive seasons.  The preliminary list of candidates features 71 players, 14
coaches and 18 contributors, including former NFL Commissioner
Paul Tagliabue and team owners Bud Adams Jr., Jack Kent Cooke,
Ed DeBartolo Jr. and Art Modell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  