-- 
IMF Asks Congo for Explanation on State Mining Assets Sale

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-09-28T13:34:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/imf-asks-congo-for-explanation-on-state-mining-assets-sale.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
asked two  Democratic Republic  of Congo state-owned mining
companies to explain recent unannounced asset sales at prices
below their estimated market value.  Congo’s Gecamines sold its stakes in two mining projects
run by Baer, Switzerland-based Glencore International Plc to
companies associated with Israeli businessman Dan Gertler
earlier this year, according to a Glencore prospectus published
in May. Gecamines didn’t announce the deal publicly at the time.  In March, state-owned Sodimico sold its 30 percent stake in
two mines formerly held by  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM)  of  Canada 
to two companies registered in the British Virgin Islands.  The sales are being scrutinized by Congolese and
international organizations because of the secrecy surrounding
the deals and the amounts the properties were sold for. IMF
country representative Samir Jahjah couldn’t immediately comment
on the documents when contacted by phone today.  Congo’s government published responses dated Sept. 16 by
Sodimico and Gecamines to the IMF’s inquiries on the Mines
Ministry’s website. The Central African nation is in the second
year of a three-year, $561 million loan program backed by the
IMF to reduce poverty and spur economic growth.  Gertler Associated  Gecamines sold its 20 percent share of the Mutanda copper
and cobalt project earlier this year for $137 million, according
to its submission to the IMF. The stake was bought by Rowny
Assets Ltd., a British Virgin Islands-registered entity
“associated” with Gertler, according to the Glencore prospectus.  According to calculations by South African consulting firm
 Golder Associates  included in the prospectus, the entire project
is worth an estimated $3.1 billion. That valuation would make
the stake Gecamines sold to Rowny worth more than $600 million,
excluding royalties and other payments.  Gecamines told the IMF it relied partly on a valuation of
Mutanda by BNP Paribas SA from April 2010. BNP Paribas didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mailed request for comment today.  The Glencore prospectus also announced that Gecamines had
sold its 25 percent stake in a neighboring copper and cobalt
project known as Kansuki to another British Virgin Islands
entity associated with Gertler. Kansuki has “the potential to be
a bigger producer” of minerals than Mutanda, Deutsche Bank AG
said in a June 6 report on Glencore.  The price Gecamines received for Kansuki wasn’t disclosed
in the answers submitted to the IMF.  First Quantum  In March, Sodimico sold its 30 percent stake in Frontier
and Lonshi mines, previously owned by First Quantum, for $30
million. The properties have a combined total value of more than
$1.6 billion, according to estimates by brokerage houses Numis
Securities Ltd. and Oriel Securities Ltd. in  London .  Sodimico’s Chief Executive Officer Laurent Lambert Tshisola
Kangoa said on July 28 the decision to sell the stake was
“political” and that it was “debatable” if the $30 million
purchase price was a proper valuation.  Neither Gecamines nor Sodimico went through an open tender
process because their partners in the ventures had the right of
first refusal, according to their responses to the IMF
questions.  Gecamines disagreed with an IMF question suggesting that
the proceeds from the Mutanda sale should be transferred to
state coffers in accordance with Congolese law. After the copper
and cobalt miner became a commercial company in December, such
laws didn’t apply, it said.  Sodimico has already transferred $10 million from its asset
sale to the state, the company said in its response to the IMF.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 