-- 
India May Require Wind-Turbine Suppliers to Open Local Factories

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-09-28T19:29:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/india-may-require-wind-turbine-suppliers-to-open-local-factories.html
India  may require international
suppliers of  wind turbines  to establish local factories,
according to a draft of new policy guidelines released by the
government.  Turbines made by companies that sell more than 15 megawatts
of machines in India without establishing an “adequate
manufacturing facility” may be uprooted at their owners’ cost
and will face “heavy” penalties, according to a  document  on
the website of the Ministry of New and  Renewable Energy . The
ministry will accept comments on the proposal until Oct. 6.  The proposal may pose a barrier to Chinese suppliers such
as Shanghai Electric Group Co. and Dongfang Electric Corp. that
don’t have manufacturing facilities in India and have signed
contracts to supply machines to local wind farm developers.  Turbine suppliers can’t agree to sell more than 15
megawatts of equipment until a manufacturing base is established
and been certified by local authorities, the proposal said.  The statement didn’t specify whether a local assembly plant
would meet the requirements or whether components must be made
in India.  Dongfang signed a $203 million contract with India’s KSK
Ltd. to supply 166 of its 1.5 megawatt direct-drive turbines,
according to a Dec. 10 Hong Kong stock exchange filing. Shanghai
Electric has a purchase order from KSK Group for 125 of its 2-
megawatt machines, it said Sept. 25 in its semi-annual report.  Indowind Energy Ltd. (IEL) , a Chennai, India-based owner of wind
farms, placed a 28-megawatt order with Shanghai Electric in
June, A. Raja Sukumar, head of corporate communications at BVK
Group, Indowind’s parent, said in a Sept. 9 interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in New York at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  