-- 
India Stocks Fluctuate on Concern Rates May Increase

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-09-28T14:32:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/india-sensex-declines-on-interest-rate-concern-auto-stocks-lead.html
(Corrects Tata Consultancy’s revenue in second paragraph.)  Indian stocks swung between gains
and losses as concern the nation’s central bank may continue to
raise  interest rates  countered optimism over  Greece ’s progress
in meeting condition to receive more aid.  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) , India’s biggest software
services maker, which got about 78 percent of its revenue from
the U.S. and Europe in the year ended March 31, paced gains
among peers Infosys Ltd. and  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO)   Cairn India Ltd. (CAIR)  gained
after the board of Oil & Natural Gas Corp. approved  Vedanta
Resources Plc (VED) ’s plan to buy a majority stake in Cairn Energy
Plc’s Indian unit.  The BSE India Sensitive Index, or Sensex, declined 0.7
percent to 16,401 at 11:09 a.m. Mumbai time, after swinging
between gains and losses a dozen times. The gauge has lost 13
percent this quarter ending Sept. 30, the most since the three
months ended December 2008, amid concern the  Reserve Bank  of
India’s record interest-rate increases will worsen the impact of
Europe’s debt crisis and a faltering U.S. recovery on local
company earnings.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won a parliamentary
vote on a new property tax, boosting his chances of pushing
through austerity cuts aimed at securing further financial aid.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel said Greece will meet the terms
of international inspectors ruling on its bailout aid, voicing
her government’s support for Greece’s economic success.  “Some good news is expected about Greek and European debt
woes as euro-zone countries continue to vote on expanding the
European Financial Stability Fund,” Amit Chheda, head of equity
at Inventure Growth & Securities Ltd., said in a note.
“However, questions on economic growth still persist.”  Export Earnings  Infosys climbed 2.9 percent to 2,514 rupees, the biggest
gainer on the Sensex, while Tata Consultancy Services jumped 1.8
percent to 1,059.7 rupees and Wipro rallied 2.3 percent to
356.05 rupees. Software exporters get about three-quarters of
their revenue from overseas, mostly the U.S. and  Europe .  India’s rupee climbed past 49 per dollar to the highest
level in a week, after weakening 0.1 percent earlier to 49.13.
The currency lost 4.6 percent last week, the most in 18 years,
as foreign funds favored safer bets than emerging-market assets
amid concern the global economy is set for a recession.  Overseas investors sold a net 10.1 billion rupees ($202.9
million) of local stocks on Sept. 26, turning into net sellers
of 6.32 billion rupees in shares this year,  data  compiled by the
market regulator show. They withdrew a net $2.4 billion in
August, the most since October 2008.  ‘Interrupted’ Growth  India’s $1.2 trillion stock market,  Asia ’s fourth-biggest,
is influenced by foreign fund flows. Inflows from abroad surged
to a record $29.4 billion in 2010, making the Sensex the best
performer among the world’s top 10 markets. The largest-ever
outflow in 2008 led the biggest annual slump of 52 percent.  India’s economy  will expand 7.8 percent this year, the
 International Monetary Fund  said Sept. 20, slower than the 8.2
percent estimated in June. Growth in emerging-market economies
will be “interrupted” if problems caused by the risks of a
U.S. recession and Europe’s crisis aren’t resolved,  Reserve Bank
of India  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said Sept. 26.  Inflation remains above the level the central bank deems
acceptable, he said, underscoring that pressure remains for
further monetary tightening. The central bank raised borrowing
costs for a 12th time since March 2010 on Sept. 16. Its next
monetary policy meeting is scheduled for Oct. 25.  “India and  China , where inflation is high, will deal with
it by maintaining tight monetary policy,” said  Adrian Mowat ,
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s emerging-market strategist. The nations
“will prepare for a slowdown in growth rather than not fight
inflation at this time,” he said yesterday in an interview with
Bloomberg-UTV.  ‘Earnings Downside’  The Sensex has dropped 19 percent this year on concern the
record series of interest-rate increases may compound the
effects of Europe’s crisis and slowing U.S. growth on company
profits.  Earnings for 47 percent of the companies on the measure
missed analyst estimates in the quarter ended June, compared
with 33 percent that lagged behind forecasts in the previous
quarter, according to Bloomberg data.  “We remain cautious on the markets with more downside to
corporate earnings estimates,” according to a report by CLSA
Asia Pacific Markets dated yesterday. Still, “CLSA’s global
strategy team retains  India  as one of its favourite markets
given its lower export dependence and RBI’s potential capacity
to fight a potential deflationary scare.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  