-- 
Iran Bank Chief Quits Over Fraud as Pressure on President Rises

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-09-28T13:28:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/iran-bank-chief-quits-over-fraud-as-pressure-on-president-rises.html
The head of Iran’s largest state-
owned bank lost his job over the biggest fraud case in the
country’s history that also creates problems for President
 Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , whose top aide has been implicated.  The managing director of Bank Melli, Mahmoud-Reza Khavari,
quit yesterday over the $2.6 billion embezzlement and Economy
and Finance Minister Shamseddin Hosseini accepted his
resignation, according to the state-run  Mehr  news agency.  In his resignation letter, published by Mehr late
yesterday, Khavari apologized to Iran’s Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei and to Iranians, saying he was stepping down “to
respect public opinion.” He also accused Bank Saderat, another
Iranian lender, of being “at the source” of the fraud.  Seven state-owned and private banks were linked to the
case, which reportedly involved the forging of letters of credit
from Bank Saderat by Iranian businessman Amir Mansour Khosravi
to secure loans that were then used to purchase state-owned
companies, Iranian state-run media have reported.  Ahmadinejad has come under pressure as his critics accuse
his close aide and relative, Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei, of  having
ties  to Khosravi. The government has denied any connections to
the alleged fraud.  The scandal, which became public less than half a year
before March parliamentary elections, adds to friction in recent
months within  Iran ’s leadership. Ahmadinejad’s opponents have
accused him of challenging the authority of Khamenei, Iran’s
highest authority.  The fraud stems from “cliques” and “unhealthy
relations” between certain directors and officials,
parliamentary member Hamid-Reza Fouladgar said in a separate
 Mehr  report yesterday.  Iranian Prosecutor-General Gholamhossein Mohseni-Ejei said
two days ago that 22 people were detained in connection with the
scam, according to the state-run  Press TV  news channel. He
didn’t name anyone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  