-- 
Italian to Sell 9 Billion Euros of Bonds as Maturities Loom

-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-09-29T06:31:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/italy-linker-sale-to-succeed-without-ecb-support-citigroup-says.html
Italy plans to sell 9 billion euros
($12.3 billion) of bonds today as it seeks to finance 23 billion
euros of maturing debt with contagion from the region’s
sovereign crisis boosting the nation’s borrowing costs.  The Treasury sells as much as 2.5 billion euros of bonds
maturing in March 2022, 2 billion euros of bonds due August
2021, 3.5 billion euros of three-year securities and 1 billion
euros of floating-rate debt due 2015.  “As long as the sales are covered, then the situation
does not change much,” said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income
strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in  London . “Italy still
has too much debt, a bad and fractious government, needs to
address and pass structural reforms very soon, and hope that
 Greece  does not default, if things are to improve.”  Italy’s borrowing costs surged to euro-era records last
month as Greece’s slide toward default fueled concern the
country with the region’s second-biggest debt would become the
next victim of the region’s sovereign crisis. The  European
Central Bank  began buying Italian securities on Aug. 8 and bonds
have since given back much of the initial gains triggered by the
purchases.  The auction comes after the country yesterday sold 750
million euros of inflation-linked bonds. Investors bid for 2.1
times the amount of the securities on offer.  ‘Bigger Hurdle’  Yesterday’s “well-received linker reopening should not be
extrapolated for tomorrow’s auctions,”  David Schnautz , a fixed-
income strategist at Commerzbank in London, said yesterday.
“These will be a much bigger hurdle to clear.”  Italy also sold 14.5 billion euros of treasury bills and
bonds on Sept. 27. The funds will help finance 8 billion euros
of maturing bills tomorrow, when 13.5 billion euros of zero-
coupon securities also mature.  The country still has almost 90 billion euros in bills and
longer-term debt maturing this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 