-- 
Spain, Italy Extend Bans on Short Selling

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-09-29T08:56:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/italy-spain-extend-ban-on-short-selling-financial-stocks-amid-volatility.html
Italian and Spanish financial
market regulators extended temporary bans on short selling of
financial shares that were introduced last month in a bid to
stem market volatility.  The European Securities and Markets Authority announced the
extension by the two countries in an e-mailed statement. The
Spanish ban will remain “until the market conditions allow it”
to be lifted, the country’s financial regulator said in its
statement. Italy’s restriction, and another enacted by  France  in
August, will both last until Nov. 11.  The Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index has
fallen 10 percent since the bans first took effect on Aug. 12.
Societe Generale SA has dropped 18.5 percent and Unicredit SpA
has fallen 26.6 percent during the period. The initial bans,
introduced by the countries to reduce market fluctuations in
August,  lasted 15 days . A similar rule introduced the same day
in  Belgium  is indefinite.  To use short-selling bans for “prolonged periods may
distort required market adjustments,”  Richard Reid , the
International Centre for Financial Regulation’s director of
research, said in an e-mail. “It is not even clear how
effective such bans are. After all, we have seen some really
dramatic market movements in recent weeks when these bans have
been in place.”  French Coordination  Short-sellers sell borrowed shares with plans to buy them
back later at a lower price, a practice politicians and some
investors blame for roiling markets.  “We work in close coordination under ESMA reviewing market
conditions and impact of the August ban, will continue to
monitor and could lift if conditions warrant,” the French
regulator, the Autorite des Marches Financiers, said in an e-
mailed statement.  The Greek market regulator has also said it would reassess
its ban on all short selling of equities, which is scheduled to
expire Oct. 7, “before the end of September.”  Greece  was the
first country to ban short-selling, introducing restrictions
four days before France, Italy and  Spain .  “The ban has only succeeded in drying up liquidity,
increasing volatility and those stocks subject to it will be
worse performers,” said  Simon Maughan , head of sales and
distribution at MF Global Ltd. in  London . “That is what this
ban has achieved.”  The prohibitions don’t force investors to close existing
short positions, and a number of investment funds continue to
maintain them in bank stocks, according to regulatory filings.  Wellington Management Co. LLP , for example, has disclosed a
3.6 percent short position in Spanish lender  Bankinter SA. (BKT)   Discovery Capital Management LLC  has a 1 percent short
holding in  Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP) , Spain’s fifth-largest
traded bank and Wellington has sold short 1.8 percent of Banco
Sabadell SA, Spain’s sixth-biggest bank, according to filings
with Spain’s market regulator.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 