-- 
Liverpool Faces ‘New Reality’ as Cameron Spending Cuts Bite

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-09-29T08:13:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/liverpool-confronts-new-reality-as-cameron-spending-cuts-bite.html
A month after taking office,  David Cameron  warned that no one would escape the spending cuts that
lay ahead. Few cities will be hit harder than Liverpool, where
the Labour opposition held its annual conference this week.  Built on Victorian-era free enterprise, the port city in
northwest England now relies on  government spending  for more
than a third of its jobs. Its 12.2 percent unemployment rate
last year was among the highest in the country. Despite the
regeneration of the area, welfare accounts for over a quarter of
 household income , the highest of any major U.K. city, according
to  Centre for Cities , a London-based research organization.  “Liverpool has a big job to do to adjust and it’s going to
be difficult,” said Centre for Cities Interim Chief Executive
Joanna Averley. “Some neighbourhoods are still very poor but
they are working to see how they deal with the new economic
reality.”  The fate of cities such as Liverpool is inflaming the
political debate over Cameron’s 80 billion-pound program ($125
billion) of spending and welfare reductions to wipe out the
 budget deficit . Labour this week urged him to slow the pace of
cuts as concern mounts that the world economy is sliding back
into recession.  Even  Ed Miliband , the Labour Party leader, offers little
more hope to his party’s hosts. While attacking the severity of
Cameron’s plan, he acknowledged in his speech to supporters on
Sept. 27 that even if Labour wins the 2015 general election “we
won’t be able to reverse many of the cuts this government is
making.”  No Comfort  That’s little comfort to the seven former employees of
 Liverpool Mutual Homes , the company that runs the city’s housing
projects on behalf of the local council, who lost their jobs
last summer.  Among the men, who were holding up banners from the Unite
labor union across the road from the company’s headquarters on a
sunny autumn morning, was David Caddick, a driver on the team
for 35 years. For most of that time, Caddick, 57, was a council
employee until in 2000 his job moved to the first of a series of
private companies. Their work was fixing up council-owned homes.  “Some of them have been used as drug dens, they’re
uninhabitable,” he said. “1976 was the last time I was out of
work. We survived the winter of discontent, the whole Thatcher
term. We thought we’d been through the worst.”  Against a backdrop of deepening global economic gloom, Cameron
and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  are pushing
through cuts that dwarf even those implemented by  Margaret Thatcher ’s Conservative administration in the 1980s.  ‘Highly Vulnerable’  The program  will see more than 300,000 public-sector jobs
eliminated by 2015 and deep cuts to welfare, including a three-
year freeze of child-benefit payments and reductions in housing
allowances. Liverpool is “highly vulnerable,” the city’s
council said in a January report.  Centre for Cities estimates that Liverpool may lose as many
as  7,900 public-sector jobs , or 2.3 percent of the workforce,
with many more going in neighboring areas. Meanwhile, welfare
cuts will equate to almost 200 pounds per person annually, the
most of any major city, it said.  With business startup rates below the national average and
poor levels of educational attainment -- a fifth of Liverpool’s
residents possess no formal qualifications -- private companies
may find it hard to make up for the loss of government jobs,
said Clive Gawthorpe at accountants UHY Hacker Young in
Manchester.  Three Graces  “It’s going to be very, very difficult,” Gawthorpe said.
“There are some positive signs in the private sector but I
don’t think it’s going to be enough.”  Today, Liverpool’s geography reflects its rise from a chief
port for the Atlantic slave trade to a boom city of the
industrial revolution. Neoclassical buildings erected early in
the last century known as the Three Graces -- The Royal Liver
Building, the Cunard Building and the former headquarters of the
Mersey Docks and Harbor Board - on the waterfront are testament
to a time when about 40 percent of  England ’s trade passed
through the city’s docks.  For some, the riots that hit major English cities including
Liverpool in August underline the potential for civil unrest as
the spending cuts unfold. For the residents of Liverpool, they
evoked memories of 1981, when rioting raged for more than a week
in the Toxteth district of the city, less than two miles from
the  Cavern Club  where The Beatles first performed 20 years
earlier.  Trotskyite Militants  Liverpool earned a reputation for militancy during the
1980s when a Trotskyite faction led by Derek Hatton ran the
city’s council and directly challenged the Thatcher government
over its cuts. Although Hatton was expelled from Labour in 1986
for breaking party rules, he helped shape a perception of the
party that kept it from winning an election for 18 years.  Attempts to reverse decades of economic decline gathered
pace when  Tony Blair  returned Labour to power in 1997,
transforming the waterfront, boosting retail and tourism and
attracting investment from companies including Bertelsmann AG,
Panmure Gordon & Co. Plc and ServiceSource International Inc.  Employment in Liverpool increased by about 12 percent in
the decade to 2008 as alongside private  job creation  the
government added almost 19,000 teaching, health care and
administrative posts, expanding the city’s public-sector
workforce by more than a quarter, according to the Liverpool
Chamber of Commerce.  ‘Unity and Purpose’  Recent data suggest the process of disinvestment is now
well under way. Liverpool’s unadjusted jobless-claims rate
climbed to 6.9 percent in August, compared with a U.K. average
of 3.9 percent, according to the  Office for National Statistics .  Not everyone is pessimistic. “The transformation over the
last few years has been very significant and has done a lot to
nurture investment so that Liverpool now has a lot of the assets
a modern city needs,” said Ed Cox, director of the Institute
for Public Policy Research North in Newcastle. “There is also a
huge sense of unity and purpose in the city and that counts for
a lot.”  Nearby the quayside conference center where Labour
delegates end their get-together today, Roger Metcalf helps look
after a 19th century church built to take care of Scandinavian
migrants arriving in Liverpool. He says the area has undergone a
renaissance and there is no going back.  “It's much more pleasant now,” he said. “I would go out
walking on my own in the city center nowadays. I wouldn’t have
done 15 years ago.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in Liverpool, England or  rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  