-- 
Jamaica Tells Greece Debt Restructuring Leads to Gains

-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a   a n d   E r i c   S a b o
-- 
2011-09-28T17:40:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/jamaica-tells-greece-debt-restructuring-leads-to-economic-gains.html
Jamaica ’s Finance Minister Audley Shaw said  Greece  should follow the example of the Caribbean
nation and restructure the national debt as a first step toward
solving its economic crisis.  “Start with that debt exchange,” Shaw said yesterday in
an interview at Bloomberg headquarters in New York. “We had to
do it because we had no alternative.”  Jamaica swapped $7.8 billion of local bonds for securities
with longer maturities and lower  interest rates  last year as a
debt burden exceeding 120 percent of gross domestic product
threatened to stall growth in the island nation of 2.8 million
people. The accord paved the way for Moody’s Investors Service
to raise Jamaica’s credit rating and the  International Monetary
Fund  to approve a 27-month, $1.27 billion stand-by credit.  “We had inherited a financial crisis of our own,” Shaw
said. “The debt overhang, the persistent lack of growth, the
persistent deficit that we face. Added to that came the global
economic crisis.”  The national debt stood at 128 percent of GDP as of April,
according to a government report issued that month. That
compares with 143 percent of the GDP for Greece and 119 percent
for  Italy . The Jamaican dollar is fixed at about 85.6 to the
 U.S. dollar .  PM Resignation  Jamaica’s efforts to reduce its debt burden received a
setback this week after Prime Minister  Bruce Golding  said he
plans to step down after four years in office. He will leave
once a new ruling party leader is elected in November.  “It was a personal decision the prime minister made,”
said Shaw, 59, who has been finance minister for the past four
years. “It was an act of absolute statesmanship, an unselfish
decision that seeks to put the country and the fortunes of the
country ahead of its personal political ambitions.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Jamaica’s dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell by five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 601 as of 1 p.m., according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index. The spread
has increased from 400 basis points at the end of June.  The yield on Jamaica’s 8 percent bond due in 2039 fell to
8.22 percent today from a seven-month high of 8.26 percent on
Sept. 23, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Jamaica is
rated B3 at Moody’s, or six steps below investment grade, on a
par with Argentina and  Nicaragua .  Asset Sales  Government attempts to sell assets, attract foreign
investment and foster growth, won’t be harmed by Golding’s
resignation, Minister of Industry, Investment and Commerce
Christopher Tufton said at the same interview.  “Jamaica is open for business,” Tufton, 43, said. “It is
a natural part of the democratic process and it is important for
all concerned to recognize that it is business as usual.”  Asked whether he was interested in taking over the
leadership of the ruling  Labor Party , Shaw said he was
“qualified,” though he wouldn’t make a decision until “the
appropriate time.” Tufton, who served as minister of
agriculture and fisheries for four years until June, said he had
the same answer.  As part of its program to raise cash, cut costs and reduce
the fiscal deficit, Jamaica’s government expects to sell its
stake in the Clarendon alumina refinery, controlled by New York-
based  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , for as much as $400 million by the end of the
year, Shaw said.  The Cabinet is considering two bids for the 45 percent
stake, he said, without giving details. The government has lost
money on the company because of a fixed-price agreement signed
by the previous administration, Shaw said.  “We need to get rid of it,” he said. “The decision is
imminent.”  Fiscal Deficit  Jamaica has already sold its sugar mills and Air Jamaica to
Caribbean Airlines. Its fiscal deficit narrowed to about 6.1
percent of GDP in the 2010-11 fiscal year, according to a  report 
by the  Finance Ministry  published in April. That compares with
10.9 percent the year before.  The Jamaican Stock Exchange Select Index fell 2.25 percent
to 2728.53 yesterday, paring its gain for the year to 24
percent.  The country is seeking to attract foreign investment to
boost growth, with the economy likely to expand more than 2.5
percent this year and next, Shaw said. GDP grew 1.4 percent in
the first quarter from the year-earlier period.  “I am quite optimistic that our growth will exceed the 2
percent to 2.5 percent near-term projections that we have,” he
said.  The government is working to attract investment in areas
such as tourism and information and communications technology,
Shaw said. Parliament approved this year a law allowing the
expansion of casinos on the island nation.  “Despite the challenges of the global economy, there is
money and what we have got to do is to build a platform of
credibility that can attract that money,” Shaw said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabiola Moura in  New York  at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 