-- 
Japan Ruling Party Proposes Selling Japan Tobacco Stake to Fund Rebuilding

-- B y   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a   a n d   M i y u k i   S e g u c h i
-- 
2011-09-28T08:02:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/japan-tobacco-rises-most-in-six-months-on-government-stake-sale-proposal.html
Japan’s ruling party proposed
selling the government’s majority stake in  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914) ,
the world’s third-biggest publicly traded cigarette maker, to
help fund rebuilding after the March 11 earthquake.  Japan Tobacco fell 1.8 percent, the most since Sept. 5, to
356,500 yen at the 3 p.m. close in Tokyo. The shares earlier
today gained as much as 9.2 percent. The broader Topix index
rose 0.7 percent.  The government may raise 1.8 trillion yen ($24 billion) by
selling its 50.01 percent stake in Japan Tobacco at the stock’s
current price. A sale may help Japan Tobacco operate with fewer
constraints as the government looks to impose more taxes,
including on cigarettes, to fund recovery from the March 11
earthquake and tsunami and the nuclear disaster that followed.  “The company will have freedom to manage itself,” said
Mikihiko Yamato, a research partner at Japan Invest KK. “If the
market turns around and moves the shares up, the government may
sell its stake earlier than the original plan.”  The government raised tobacco taxes 40 percent in October
2010, and Japanese Health Minister Yoko Komiyama said Sept. 20
that tobacco taxes should go up again until the average price of
a pack of cigarettes is about 700 yen, or 75 percent higher than
the current level, to cut medical costs. The  Democratic Party  of
Japan also proposed a 9.2 trillion yen overall tax increase
yesterday.  Share-Price Gain  The maker of Mild Seven and Camel cigarettes has gained 19
percent this year in Tokyo trading, compared with a 16 percent
decline for the Topix index. Yesterday was the last day
investors could buy shares that would be eligible for Japan
Tobacco’s next dividend payment of 4,000 yen, Hideyuki Yamamoto,
a spokesman for Japan Tobacco, said in an e-mail today.  “We are hoping Japan Tobacco will be fully privatized,
which has been the government’s policy,” Yamamoto said in a
separate phone call, declining to comment further. Yamamoto had
said earlier this month that Japan Tobacco was “seriously
considering” buying back some shares if the government were to
sell.  Japan  plans to spend 19 trillion yen over the next five
years to rebuild after the record temblor and tsunami devastated
the northeast and prompted world’s worst nuclear disaster in 25
years. While the government has already approved two packages
totaling about 6 trillion yen, the economy has shrunk for three
straight quarters.  Pressure to raise money now may have pushed the government
to propose selling more of its stake faster than planned,
Yoshifumi Kikuchi, head of dealing at Nissan Century Securities
Co., said today by phone. To sell, the government will need to
rewrite a law that requires it to hold at least half of the
tobacco company.  “I didn’t expect the government to sell its entire
stake,” Kikuchi said. “It’s possible the government will sell
its stake much earlier than planned since the country’s finances
are tight.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shunichi Ozasa in  Tokyo  at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net ;
Miyuki Seguchi in Tokyo at 
 mseguchi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  