-- 
Japan Stocks Gain Second Day as Europe Shows Signs of Agreement

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 
2011-09-28T07:41:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/japanese-stocks-advance-for-second-day-after-germany-vows-to-help-greece.html
Japanese stocks advanced for a
second day, with the Topix index extending a rebound from a 2 ½-
year low, after Greece made progress in meeting conditions for
more aid and Germany vowed to support the debt-laden country.  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) , Japan’s
second-biggest publicly traded lender, advanced 3.4 percent.
 Sony Corp. (6758) , which earns more than a quarter of its sales in
Europe, rose 1.9 percent. Mitsui Fudosan Co. and other
developers gained after Credit Suisse Group AG said government
policies to support home purchase should boost the sector.  The Topix index advanced 0.7 percent to 754.07 at the 3 p.m.
close in Tokyo after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  signaled
support for Greece, saying, “Germany is ready to offer all
kinds of help that is needed.” The Nikkei 225 Stock Average
pared gains in the final minutes of trading after a report
showed France’s gross domestic product failed to grow last
quarter, reigniting concern Europe’s debt crisis has damped
growth in one of Asia’s biggest markets.  “Investors have no idea whether  Greece ’s debt problem will
really be solved,” said Hisakazu Amano, who helps oversee the
equivalent of $29 billion at Tokyo-based T&D Asset Management Co.
“The European Union as a whole supports measures to help Greece,
but voters in Germany and other countries may not want to put
money into it.”  New Divisions?  In  New York , the  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index pared gains
yesterday in the last hour of trading after the Financial Times
quoted unnamed European officials as saying new division may
have emerged over the terms of Greece’s bailout, with as many as
seven of the euro-area’s 17 members arguing for private
creditors to take a bigger writedown on Greek bond holdings.
Futures on the  S&P 500  gained 0.2 percent today.  Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou yesterday won
parliamentary backing for a property tax to meet deficit-
reduction targets that  Europe  has set as a condition for
providing more bailout money. Merkel, who spoke before meeting
Papandreou for dinner, said she had heard Greece was on track to
meet its part of the bargain.  “Europeans finally get it,” Pacific Investment
Management Co.’s Mohamed El-Erian said in a radio interview
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken
Prewitt. “They recognize they have deep problems and they
recognize they need to do something about it.”  Banks Rise  Japanese lenders advanced in Tokyo. Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group, whose shares have plunged 25 percent this year,
jumped 3.4 percent to 2,170 yen. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc., Japan’s biggest lender and a large holder of European
bonds, rose 3 percent to 347 yen.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  pared gains today after the Paris-based
statistics office Insee said France’s gross domestic product was
unchanged in the three-month through June.  Sony closed the day up 1.9 percent to 1,503 yen, after
earlier gaining as much as 2.6 percent. Mazda Motor Corp.,
Japan’s second-biggest car exporter, pared gains of as much
5.4 percent before closing up 3.4 percent at 152 yen.  Gains in Japanese stocks were also limited today after 921
of the 1,664 companies listed on the Topix went ex-dividend. The
gauge climbed 2.7 percent yesterday amid increasing confidence
that Europe will act to solve its debt crisis and as investors
bought shares on the last day they would be entitled to receive
dividends for more than half the companies in the index.  Real estate developers gained after Credit Suisse said low
 interest rates  and an extension of government policies to
support home buying through 2012 may boost demand for property.
Mitsui Fudosan, Japan’s largest developer by revenue, advanced
4.7 percent to 1,209 yen. Smaller Mitsubishi Estate Co. climbed
4.1 percent to 1,242 yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in  Tokyo  at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 