-- 
Japan May Scrap Plan to Build New Finance Ministry Headquarters

-- B y   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 
2011-09-28T05:54:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/japan-may-scrap-plan-to-build-new-finance-ministry-headquarters.html
Japan’s government may scrap a plan
to build a new headquarters for the  finance ministry  and instead
opt to renovate its Tokyo home to keep costs down, three
government officials familiar with the matter said.  The current five-story building, constructed in 1943, is at
risk of collapsing if a large quake shakes the capital,
according to a document on the finance ministry’s website.
Erecting a new building will cost about 58 billion yen ($758
million) compared with around 16 billion yen for renovations,
said one of the officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the person isn’t authorized to talk to journalists.  Abandoning the headquarters construction plan would
underscore the government’s need to save money to reduce a
public debt twice the size of the economy and pay for rebuilding
after the March 11 earthquake. The nation’s ruling party
yesterday proposed selling the government’s stake in  Japan 
Tobacco Inc. to help fund the reconstruction.  A government-led panel on state assets recommended in 2007
that a new high-rise be built for the finance ministry that
would be quake-resistant and house other agencies, according to
the  document . The current home of the finance ministry, in
charge of Japan’s budget, tax and currency policies, is dwarfed
by neighboring government high-rises that went up in recent
years, including the 38-story education ministry building.  The land and infrastructure ministry, which oversees
government buildings, may submit a plan to renovate rather than
construct a new building, as part of its budget request for the
year starting April 2012, the official said.  The land ministry can’t comment because it is still
compiling its spending request, a spokesman said on the
condition of anonymity, citing government policy.  Short of Standard  A land ministry report in 2006 said the finance ministry’s
building fell short of its standard for quake resistance,
meaning that if the largest temblor according to Japanese
measures hit  Tokyo , there’s a danger of it collapsing, the
document on the finance ministry website said.  Japan plans to spend 19 trillion yen over the next five
years to rebuild after the record temblor and tsunami devastated
the northeast and prompted world’s worst nuclear disaster in 25
years. The government has already approved two packages totaling
about 6 trillion yen.  Public debt in the world’s third-largest economy is
projected to reach  219 percent  of gross domestic product next
year even before accounting for borrowing to fund reconstruction
after the March earthquake, according to the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development.  Moody’s Investors Service lowered Japan’s sovereign debt
rating by one step to Aa3 last month, saying that rebuilding
costs after the disaster may make it hard for officials to meet
their borrowing target this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoko Shimodoi in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  