-- 
Kenya May Invoke Law to Impose New Monetary Policy, DaMina Says

-- B y   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 
2011-09-28T05:39:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/kenya-may-invoke-law-to-impose-new-monetary-policy-damina-says.html
Kenyan Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  may consider invoking a law that enables him to impose
a Cabinet-determined  monetary policy  direction on the  central
bank  to help stabilize the shilling, DaMina Advisors LLP said.  Kenyatta is empowered by a rule in the  Central Bank of
Kenya Act  to take action when an impasse exists between the
finance minister and the regulator, the New York-based risk
adviser said in an e-mailed research note today.  While Central Bank of Kenya Governor Njuguna Ndung’u has a
mandate until 2014, Kenyatta, who may be a presidential
candidate in elections scheduled for next year, “won’t long
abide by Ndungu’s inability to get the country’s monetary house
in order,” DaMina said.  Kenya ’s shilling is the world’s worst-performing currency
after weakening 21 percent since January to a record low of
104.20 per dollar yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy has
fallen as inflation soared to 16.7 percent in August, more than
triple the government’s 5 percent target. The central bank has
restricted liquidity to commercial banks in a bid to curb
 currency speculation  and reversed several rate decisions this
year, undermining monetary policy.  Kenya’s “domestic banking liquidity crisis” also resulted
in interbank rates surging to as high as 28 percent from 2
percent over the past nine months, DaMina said.  President Mwai Kibaki, who is  concerned about the central
bank’s inability to stabilize monetary conditions, may also
evoke another provision of the Central Bank Act to suspend
Ndung’u for up to six months, DaMina said.  Four calls to Kenyatta’s personal assistant, Munyori Buku,
didn’t connect when Bloomberg News phoned seeking comment today.
Samson Burgei, spokesman for the central bank, was unavailable
for comment when Bloomberg called his office outside normal
business hours.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  