-- 
KKR Said to Consider Making Offer for Axa’s Private Equity Funds Division

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-09-28T20:31:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/kkr-is-said-to-consider-offering-to-acquire-axa-s-private-equity-division.html
KKR & Co., the U.S. buyout firm co-
founded by  Henry Kravis , is among firms weighing a bid for  Axa
SA (CS) ’s private-equity fund unit, three people with knowledge of
the talks said.  Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec, Canada’s largest
pension-fund manager, is also interested in the company, said
the people, who asked not to be identified because the talks are
confidential. First round bids are due next month, they said.
Axa, France’s biggest insurer, said in a statement today it is
reviewing its stake in the unit.  Private-equity firms such as New York-based KKR and
Washington-based  Carlyle Group  are seeking to diversify beyond
leveraged buyouts and increase their assets under management to
ensure steadier fee income. Carlyle purchased a stake in
AlpInvest Partners NV in July, boosting assets to $153 billion
and added a range of private-equity funds of funds, which invest
money for clients in third-party managers.  Axa is selling the unit, which manages about $28 billion,
to focus on insurance, people with knowledge of the discussions
said on Sept. 23. The operation may be valued at about 500
million euros ($680 million), they said. Officials at KKR,
Montreal-based Caisse de Depot and Axa Private Equity declined
to comment.  The division, based in Paris, manages assets for Axa as
well as investors including pension funds and sovereign wealth
funds. It holds stakes in U.S. and European buyout funds run by
firms including KKR,  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and BC Partners Ltd. It
also invests directly in midsize companies and infrastructure
projects in  Europe .  Axa Private Equity, which employs 251 people in Europe,  New
York  and Singapore, was started by Dominique Senequier 15 years
ago with the support of Axa’s founder, Claude Bebear. Caisse de
Depot was one of her first investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  