-- 
NBA Season Start Time May Be at Stake on Sept. 30, Commissioner Stern Says

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-09-28T20:06:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/nba-season-start-time-may-be-at-stake-on-sept-30-commissioner-stern-says.html
The start of the National
Basketball Association season, and maybe more, could be at stake
when the league meets with players in two days and possibly into
the weekend, according to NBA Commissioner  David Stern .  The top negotiators for the NBA and  National Basketball
Players Association  met for the second straight day today at a
 Manhattan  hotel, where they talked for about four hours and
decided to meet again Sept. 30 with both the owners’ full labor-
relations committee and the union’s complete executive
committee. The meetings also could stretch into the weekend,
with the regular season scheduled to start Nov. 1.  “There are enormous consequences at play here,” Stern
told reporters. “I’m focused on let’s get the two committees in
and see whether they can either have a season or not have a
season. That’s what’s at risk this weekend.”  Adam Silver, the league’s deputy commissioner, said the
decision to invite the broader group of players and owners was
made because “whatever decisions we are now going to be making
would be so monumental given the point of the calendar.”  “It would be hard to characterize us as having made
progress today,” Silver also told reporters. “I guess it’s
always progress to the extent that we’re still talking.”  Union President  Derek Fisher  said no formal proposals were
made.  “I can’t say that common ground is evident,” Fisher told
reporters.  Fisher also said that some of the league’s key players
would be invited to the talks on Sept. 30.  Wade Supports Union  Miami Heat All-Star guard  Dwyane Wade , who was not at the
negotiations but was in Manhattan, said he is prepared to
sacrifice the NBA season to preserve the future of the game for
players, and that union Executive Director  Billy Hunter 
understands that message and has the players’ support.  “A lot of us have been in meetings, and I think for us
we’ve walked away from those meetings with the same feeling that
we had when we walked in the door,” Wade said in an interview
with Bloomberg Television when asked why high-profile players
haven’t played a bigger role in negotiations. “If they’re not
listening, if their backs are turned when we’re talking, then
what’s the point of that?”  Owners of the league’s 30 teams locked out players when the
previous agreement expired on July 1. They since have postponed
the start of training camps and 43 preseason games through Oct.
15.  The league had about $4.3 billion in revenue last season.
Stern says teams collectively lost about $300 million last
season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   --Editor: Michael Sillup  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  