-- 
NCAA Sued in Chicago By Former College Football Players Over Concussions

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-09-29T01:06:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/ncaa-sued-by-two-ex-college-football-players-over-claims-of-head-injuries.html
The  National Collegiate Athletic
Association  was sued by two former college football players who
claim the organization failed to enforce safety measures to
protect them from concussions.  Former University of Central Arkansas wide receiver Derek
K. Owens and former Northwestern University offensive lineman
Alex Rucks allege the NCAA turned a blind eye to coaches who
teach players to use their heads for tackling, failed to
establish a system for screening head injuries and shirked its
financial obligations to injured student athletes, according to
complaint filed in federal court in Chicago today.  The lawsuit seeks to represent all ex-student football
players who sustained concussions and developed chronic
headaches, dizziness and mental or physical problems and
incurred doctor bills for the illnesses after college.  The complaint also seeks a court order barring coaching of
tackling methods that can cause head injuries and establishing a
policy for when players can return to play after a head injury.
It also asks for a program to medically monitor ex-players and
unspecified damages.  “We believe that the complaint, which is merely a copycat
of a complaint filed last week, contains gross misstatements
about the NCAA and demonstrates that these plaintiffs’ attorneys
have a fundamental misunderstanding of the association,” Chris
Radford, an NCAA spokesman, said in an e-mail. “We have
specifically addressed the issue of head injuries through a
combination of playing rules, equipment requirements and medical
best practices.”  The case is Owens v. NCAA, 11-6816, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  Illinois  ( Chicago ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 