-- 
New Zealand May Withdraw From Future Rugby World Cups Over Money Dispute

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-09-28T06:34:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/new-zealand-may-withdraw-from-future-rugby-world-cups-over-money.html
New Zealand  is ready to pull out of
future Rugby World Cups unless an  International Rugby Board 
review recommends a commercial model that would address revenue
losses for the major teams, the nation’s rugby boss said.  The prospects of the top-ranked All Blacks going to the
2015 tournament in  England  are slim unless changes are made,
according to New Zealand Rugby Union Chief Executive Officer
Steve Tew. This year’s tournament in New Zealand concludes on
Oct. 23.  “That’s obviously a last resort,” Tew told  Radio New
Zealand  today when asked whether a boycott is possible. “We’re
four years away. We have a lot of time to work through that.”  The Australian Rugby Union backed Tew’s concerns, saying
leading nations face a cumulative loss in  World Cup  years of as
much as 48 million pounds ($75 million). “The current economic
model is unsustainable and unacceptable,” ARU Managing Director
John O’Neill said in a statement today.  The New Zealand union will lose NZ$13 million ($10 million)
this year as it was unable to host an overseas team and had to
limit the scale of the annual TriNations contest with  South
Africa  and  Australia , reducing ticket and television revenue,
Tew said. IRB rules also prevent the All Blacks’ sponsors being
associated with the team during the tournament.  “In the current environment we can’t afford to run a World
Cup year at a loss and nor do we think it is necessary,” Tew
said. “We believe there’s a better way of doing it.”  Tew’s comments about a possible 2015 boycott were first
reported by the London-based Telegraph.  A ‘Fairer’ Share  Tew said his union is seeking a “fairer” share of
proceeds from the Rugby World Cup for participating teams, and a
change in sponsorship restrictions. New Zealand also wants a
date change to allow the TriNations, which from 2012 expands to
a four-team contest including  Argentina , to be completed.  The IRB re-invests commercial revenue from the four-yearly
tournament across all 117 member unions to advance development
of the sport, it said in an e-mailed statement. About 150
million pounds is being invested between 2009 and 2012, with
more than half of that shared among leading nations such as New
Zealand, it said. A reassessment of the arrangements was agreed
to in May.  “A review is not only necessary, it is in our view quite
urgent,” Tew said. “Now’s not a bad time to see the issue
considered and given time to find a solution without having to
go to any drastic measures.”  The assessment will “balance the strategic needs of member
unions with the ability to provide the IRB with the financial
platform for the development of a sport that has witnessed an 18
percent growth in participation since the last Rugby World Cup
in  France ” in 2007, the IRB said in its statement. The board
won’t be making further comment, said Dominic Rumbles, head of
communications, in an interview.  The Australian union is A$16 million ($15.8 million) worse
off because the Rugby World Cup caused “massive disruption”
due to “no inbound Tests from northern hemisphere teams and a
curtailed TriNations,” the ARU’s O’Neill said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Malcolm Scott at 
 mscott23@bloomberg.net  