-- 
New Zealand in Monetary Policy ‘Sweet’ Spot, Reserve Bank Governor Says

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-09-28T21:50:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/new-zealand-in-monetary-policy-sweet-spot-central-bank-s-bollard-says.html
New Zealand ’s central bank is
better positioned to weather any fallout from the European and
U.S. debt crises than many of its counterparts, according to
Governor Alan Bollard.  “From a monetary policy point of view, New Zealand is in a
reasonably sweet sort of spot because we can move rates when we
need to,” Bollard told Radio New Zealand’s  Nine-to-Noon  today.
“We’re comfortable where things are. We think we are going to
have to push them up as we get more housing sector recovery but
we’ve got time to wait and watch on that.”  Bollard on Sept. 15 held the official cash rate at a
record-low 2.5 percent for a fourth straight meeting, saying
worsening global economic and financial risks made it prudent to
stay on hold. Twelve of 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
expect the rate will be unchanged until next year.  The outlook for the nation’s economy, boosted by rebuilding
of earthquake-devastated Christchurch and continued growth in
the economies of trading partners like  China  and  Australia ,
means New Zealand doesn’t need to lower borrowing costs, Bollard
signaled in the radio interview.  China’s ‘Soft Landing’  “It looks like China has managed a soft landing and is
still growing strongly,” he said. “We do still think there’s a
lot of growth in China and in some other east and south Asian
countries and other emerging markets. That keeps Australia going
and that keeps commodity prices high and that’s good for us.  Commodity prices fell for a third month in August “but so
has the New Zealand dollar,” Bollard said. “That means we are
still getting good returns from our exports and that’s an
important driver.”  The local currency remained over-valued even after recent
falls, Bollard said, declining to say what would be a fair value.
The  New Zealand dollar  has declined 12 percent since reaching a
record 88.43 U.S. cents on Aug. 1. It bought 77.65 cents at
10:10 a.m. in Wellington.  The central bank forecasts the economy will grow 3.3
percent this year and 2.9 percent in 2012.  “In a pretty mediocre world, New Zealand still looks quite
attractive simply from a growth point of view,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  