-- 
News Corp. ’Daily’ With 120,000 Readers Trails Murdoch Goal

-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 
2011-09-28T21:02:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/news-corp-s-daily-with-120-000-readers-trails-murdoch-goal-for-profits.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s  the Daily  is averaging
about 120,000 readers a week, or less than a quarter the number
the company said it needs to make money, according to an
advertising executive working with the iPad-only publication.  News Corp., whose Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch 
personally introduced the publication about eight months ago,
may have even fewer paying subscribers since people can read the
Daily free for two weeks. The 120,000 figure is for so-called
unique weekly visitors, which includes people who pay and those
who don’t, said John Nitti, executive vice president at Zenith 
Media, a media-buying unit of  Publicis Groupe SA (PUB) ’s Zenith 
Optimedia.  “They won’t tell us how many paying subscribers, but
that’s how many uniques the Daily is getting,” said Nitti, who
gets figures from the publication because he works with  Verizon
Wireless , a Daily sponsor that’s owned by  Verizon Communications
Inc. (VZ)  and Vodafone Group Plc.  Newspapers with circulation of about 120,000 include The
Blade in Toledo,  Ohio , and the Democrat and Chronicle in
Rochester, New York, according to the Audit Bureau of
Circulation.  The Daily’s audience is short of the 500,000 subscribers
that Murdoch said in February would allow the publication to
break even. After the free trial, subscribers pay 99 cents per
week or $39.99 a year to read the publication.  ‘Not Breaking Through’  Jenny Tartikoff, a spokeswoman for the Daily, declined to
comment. News Corp. hasn’t disclosed subscriber figures,
revealing only that it has been downloaded more than 1 million
times as of the end of June.  News Corp. fell 57 cents, or 3.4 percent, to $15.92 at 4:29
p.m.  New York  time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock has
gained 9.3 percent this year.  News Corp.’s digital publication isn’t compelling enough to
change people’s reading habits and its marketing push, including
an ad spot in Super Bowl XLV, hasn’t created wide recognition,
said  Ken Doctor , author of the  Newsonomics  blog, which tracks
technology and news.  “The Daily’s proving to be a great R&D experiment but
probably not a viable business,” Doctor said in an interview.
“It’s not breaking through the national noise.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  Expanded Availability  News Corp. is expanding the availability of the Daily
beyond  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad. The company this month released a
version for Facebook Inc. that offers a small selection of
articles for free. The Daily will also be available on tablets
that run on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software in three weeks,
according to two people familiar with the company’s plans.  Nitti said 120,000 readers is a respectable figure for the
fledgling publication.  “We do value the Daily and what it brings to the table,”
he said, pointing out that Verizon will continue to advertise
with the publication. “It’ll be interesting over the next six
months, without the launch buzz how engagement continues.”  Murdoch, who introduced the Daily before his media empire
came under fire for phone-hacking at one of its  London 
newspapers, has criticized the Web’s commoditizing effect on the
news business and presented the iPad publication as an example
of getting readers to pay for news, whether through ads or
subscriptions.  “We believe the Daily will be the model for how stories
are told and consumed,” Murdoch said in February.  Advertising Rates  The publication is helmed by Jesse Angelo, former managing
editor of the News Corp.-owned New York Post, and has recruited
former Page Six editor Richard Johnson and the New Yorker’s
music critic Sasha Frere-Jones. News Corp. has also required
readers to pay for online access to newspapers including the
Wall Street Journal, the Times of London and the Sunday Times.  Jonathan Miller , head of News Corp.’s digital operations,
said in February the company is aiming for a fifty-fifty split
in revenue between subscription and advertising, though it would
lean more heavily toward subscription dollars in the beginning.  The Daily is asking advertisers for $100 for every thousand
people who view a page, several times the rate for most high-end
publications, said Sarah Bachman, associate director at media-
buying firm  Horizon Media . The list rate is typically a starting
point in negotiations, she said.  Murdoch’s effort with the Daily may show that established
media brands, such as the  New York Times Co. (NYT) ’s namesake
newspaper or the Wall Street Journal from News Corp.’s Dow
Jones, could have more success on tablet computers than new
publications native to tablets, said Doctor.  “If you are Dow Jones, if you’re the New York Times, these
are good times because you can get that brand and content out in
so many different ways, and sell advertisers across devices,”
he said. “But for an entity like the Daily, there’s going to be
some difficulty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  