-- 
Nike Betting on Venture Capital in Effort to Step Up Innovation

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-09-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/nike-taps-venture-arm-for-green-ideas-after-making-jerseys-out-of-bottles.html
Nike Inc. (NKE) , the world’s biggest
sneaker company, is taking a page from Silicon Valley’s playbook
in an effort to cut production costs and foster a new generation
of green-technology businesses.  The company is setting up a  venture-capital  offshoot called
the Sustainable Business & Innovation Lab to back startups
focused on alternative energies and more efficient approaches to
manufacturing. The lab also will seek out companies that promote
healthy lifestyles, according to a description on  Nike’s site .  Nike is counting on innovation to help it cope with the
economic slump and supply constraints. The Nike Free, a
lightweight running shoe, helped boost sales 18 percent to $6.08
billion last quarter, topping analysts’ estimates. The company
also has sought ways to lower expenses amid rising costs for raw
materials, labor and transportation.  More companies are working on these kinds of projects, said
 John Taylor , head of research for the  National Venture Capital
Association  in Arlington, Virginia. In the past, it was mainly
technology and pharmaceutical businesses starting venture arms,
he said. With research budgets getting cut, a wider range of
companies are now looking to startups to help them maintain
their innovation.  “We are seeing consumer companies looking at venture
capital,” he said. “They feel there’s an opportunity to look
for fresh ideas.”  Early Stages  Nike declined to say how much money it will devote to the
project. The effort is in its early stages and hasn’t made
investments, which would need to be approved by management, said
Mary Remuzzi, a spokeswoman for the Beaverton, Oregon-based
company. “Leveraging innovation in sustainability can be a
vehicle for growth,” she said in an e-mail.  The risk is betting on companies that don’t pan out. In 30
percent to 40 percent of cases, investors  lose  most or all the
money they put into startups, according to Shikhar Ghosh, a
professor at  Harvard Business School . Seventy to 80 percent of
the time, investors don’t get their projected rate of return.  Nike’s lab will primarily make equity investments in young
companies focused on alternative energies. It will also finance
partnerships with government and nongovernment organizations,
according to the company’s website.  By pursuing new sources of energy and sustainable
production, Nike may be able to make its products more cheaply.
It also helps the company appeal to environmentally minded
customers, furthering an effort already under way.  Last year ,
Nike introduced soccer uniforms that use recycled polyester made
from plastic bottles.  Online Exchange  In 2009, Nike helped start an Internet project with Best
Buy Co. called  GreenXchange  that promotes sustainability. The
idea is to let patent owners collaborate online to find more
eco-friendly ways of doing business.  Nike has tapped venture-capital and private-equity managers
to run the new operation, including Avi Sahi, who was hired last
December after working at the buyout firm Perseus LLC. John
Hull, a long-time venture capitalist, also is working as a
partner. He previously served as managing director at Marquam
Hill Capital LLC and  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s venture arm, according to his
LinkedIn profile.  Nike is considering adding more staff to the effort,
including a principal to evaluate investment opportunities and
conduct exploratory research, according to its website.  The company isn’t the only sneaker maker pursuing venture-
capital investments. Adidas AG has  backed  Hydra Ventures, a fund
started this year to focus on creating new consumer brands in
apparel, footwear and sports-related areas.  The rivals are following in the footsteps of technology
giants such as Intel. Its venture-capital division,  Intel
Capital , has  invested  more than $9.8 billion in more than 1,100
companies since 1991.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  