-- 
TNK-BP Says It Paid $1 Billion to Partner With HRT in Amazon

-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 
2011-09-29T00:04:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/tnk-bp-says-it-signed-definitive-farm-in-contract-with-hrt.html
TNK-BP,  Russia ’s third-largest oil
producer, signed a contract to pay about $1 billion to become a
partner with  Brazil ’s  HRT Participacoes em Petroleo SA (HRTP3)  in an oil
project in the Brazilian Amazon, an official at TNK-BP said.  The transaction with HRT will be completed in two to three
weeks and HRT will remain the operator, said Sergey Funygin,
head of TNK-BP’s  Venezuela  division, today at an oil conference
in Puerto la Cruz, Venezuela. The deal will give TNK-BP a 45
percent stake in exploration blocks in the Solimoes Basin where
HRT recently found signs of oil, he said.  The companies signed a “definitive agreement” for TNK-BP to
join the project, Funygin said. HRT will be the operator for at
least two years and the companies have the option to change the
agreements’ conditions, he said without offering further
details.  TNK-BP is looking for opportunities in Brazil, Africa, the
 Middle East  and  Latin America  to diversify operations, Funygin
said.  Brazil expects to more than double oil production over the
next 10 years as it develops the largest discoveries in the
Americas in more than three decades.  TNK-BP is buying the stake from Petra Energia SA, HRT’s
original partner in the blocks, through an arrangement where HRT
has rights to buy Petra’s stake. HRT didn’t return two telephone
calls to its Rio de Janeiro office today seeking comments about
the deal with TNK-BP.  Venezuela Expansion  TNK-BP, which has stakes in four joint ventures with
Petroleos de Venezuela SA, is looking to produce more oil in the
South American country and may increase its interests in current
ventures or buy new assets, said Funygin. The Russian company
has a 16.7 percent interest in the Petromonagas heavy crude
venture that was nationalized from  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  in 2007.  Exxon is currently pursuing arbitration with PDVSA, as the
Caracas-based company is called, and seeking around $7 billion
in compensation in the venture formally known as Cerro Negro.  “We’re waiting for the issue to be resolved with  Exxon
Mobil , and then we are willing, if the Venezuelan government and
PDVSA consider us, to increase our interest in the venture,”
said Funygin. “We’ve already told PDVSA that we are ready to
sit down and talk about it.”  TNK-BP’s share of production from its joint ventures in
Venezuela is around 25,000 barrels of oil a day, said Funygin.
Petromonagas, which upgrades about 120,000 barrels a day of
heavy crude, will be stopped for a month next year in March or
April for programmed maintenance, Funygin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Puerto  La Cruz  at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Saponar at 
 rsaponar@bloomberg.net  