-- 
Singapore Stocks: CapitaMall, Golden Agri, Midas, Sunpower

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 
2011-09-28T09:24:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/noble-sembcorp-industries-sunpower-singapore-stock-preview.html
Singapore ’s Straits Times Index
dropped 0.9 percent to 2,701.17 at the close. Six stocks fell
for each that rose in the index of 30 companies.  The following shares were among the most active in the
market. Stock symbols are in parentheses after the company name.  Palm-oil producers: Crude palm-oil futures for December
delivery dropped as much as 2.1 percent in  Kuala Lumpur  today.  Golden Agri-Resources Ltd. (GGR)  , the world’s second-
biggest palm-oil producer by sales, sank 3.1 percent to 63
Singapore cents.  Indofood Agri Resources Ltd. (IFAR)  , the
plantation unit of  Indonesia ’s No. 1 noodle maker, slid 2.7
percent to S$1.27.  CapitaMall Trust (CT)  , Singapore’s biggest retail
property trust, declined 1.9 percent to S$1.855. Daiwa
Securities Group Inc. lowered its rating on the stock to
“hold” from “outperform,” saying valuations are less
attractive compared with office landlords and hotel operators.  Midas Holdings Ltd. (MIDAS)  , a supplier of aluminum
alloy profiles used in train carriages in  China , dropped 2.5
percent to 39 Singapore cents. A Shanghai subway train rammed
into the back of another locomotive yesterday, sparking
speculation China will slow its rail expansion. China has
slashed rail construction since 40 people were killed in a high-
speed crash in July.  Sunpower Group Ltd. (SPWG)  , a maker of energy saving and
environmental protection devices, added 2.3 percent to 22
Singapore cents. The company said it won a contract, valued at
$8.5 million, to supply heat recovery equipment to JSW Steel
Ltd. (JSTL IN), the third-biggest steel maker in  India  by sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  