-- 
Diamond-Crusted Vertu Phone Defies Slump

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-09-29T08:05:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/nokia-s-6-800-diamond-crusted-vertu-phone-defies-slump-to-win-sales-tech.html
When Mohammed Al-Haj, a 27-year-old
marketing executive in  Abu Dhabi , hinted to his girlfriend that
he wanted a new cell phone for his birthday, he wasn’t after the
latest  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  or Android device. He wanted a Nokia.  Or rather, he wanted a Vertu, from the Finnish company’s
luxury division. “It’s an accessory, part of my outfit,” Al-
Haj says of his Vertu, with its keypad bordered by pave-set
diamonds. “People look at it all the time and say, ‘Wow, that’s
a nice phone.’ It feels good.”  Vertu, started by  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s then-chief designer Frank Nuovo in 1998, has sold more than 300,000 phones in the last
decade and seen “high double-digit sales growth” since the
start of 2010, President Perry Oosting said. Vertu’s headcount
of 840 has increased by over 50 percent since 2009 and has
outgrown its space in Church Crookham,  England , where an
expansion is under way. Nokia said today it will cut an
additional 3,500 jobs elsewhere in the company as part of Chief
Executive Officer Stephen Elop’s cost-cutting drive.  The division’s success is largely due to surging demand in
the  Persian Gulf ,  Russia ,  China  and other status-conscious
emerging markets,  Bloomberg Businessweek  reports in its Oct. 3
issue. The phones sell for an average of more than 5,000 euros
($6,800), but top-end models, such as those in Vertu’s Signature
line, cost as much as 12,500 euros.  ‘Fetishized’  Vertu has become the dominant player in the luxury-
smartphone world, with about 60 percent of the Western European
market last year according to researcher IDC, despite remaining
decidedly low-tech. Phones in the Signature line still lack a
camera, and Vertu’s first touchscreen device will be released in
October. Vertu smartphones run Symbian, the old Nokia smartphone
operating system being phased out in favor of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s
Windows Phone 7.  As a result, Vertus aren’t always practical. “A lot of
Vertu owners have another device for everyday use,” says
 Armando Branchini , the founder of Milan-based luxury consultancy
InterCorporate. They’re objects to be fetishized, assembled by
hand out of materials such as titanium and steel and with
screens covered by slices of sapphire crystal. Keys pivot on
ruby bearings.  Customers “are not buying a phone. They’re buying a piece
of jewelery,” says Francisco Jeronimo of IDC.  Diamond Studded  Oosting, a former goldsmith who worked at Bulgari, bristles
at that idea. During a recent visit, he steered reporters away
from a diamond-studded handset with a gold casing being polished
for shipment. Such blinged-out baubles represent “the lowest
single-digit proportion of our sales,” he says.  The 50-year-old is quick to admit that Vertu needs to catch
up technologically. He says the company is shifting its focus to
smartphones, starting with a Qwerty-keyboard phone introduced
last year that runs customized Symbian applications such as
exclusive city guides.  A big draw for old and new Vertu customers is the company’s
flagship “concierge” function, which is free for the first
year and about $3,000 annually thereafter.  The 24-hour hotline’s staff, who speak nine languages
including Chinese, Russian and Arabic, handle requests such as
restaurant reservations and travel planning, as well as more
exotic whims like sending a box of live butterflies as an
anniversary gift. The service also got the 14-year-old daughter
of another client a chance to play the organ at  Notre Dame  in
Paris, said services chief Mark Izatt.  Those offerings will help Vertu stand out from the
competition: Luxury brands  Giorgio Armani , TAG Heuer, Versace
and Porsche all released handsets recently.  Hummer Test  Although Nuovo is remembered by Nokia fans for the 8810,
the sleek, chrome-plated “cigarette-lighter” handset, Vertu
phones are tougher, with a “V” blazon that recalls a vintage
car. The arrow-shaped Signature, at 166 grams (about 6 ounces),
makes a rocklike thud when dropped on a conference table.  “Putting a camera on this would turn it into a utilitarian
object rather than a real art piece,” says Hutch Hutchison, a
former military hardware expert who designs the handsets with
Nuovo’s input. His team has run over a Vertu with a Hummer (it
survived), and a 14-ton bus (it didn’t). The auto-inspired
Ascent range and the “more affordable” Constellation range,
which will include the touchscreen phone, do have cameras.  Another important way to stay ahead of competitors is to
maintain some distance from Nokia. References to the Finnish
manufacturer are hard to find on Vertu’s website and in its more
than 80 retail stores, which occupy space on streets such as
Rodeo Drive in  Beverly Hills .  Not Nokia  At the boutique in one of Paris’s most exclusive districts,
a security guard mans the door and staff wear black gloves while
handling the merchandise. Vertu also has counters in high-end
watch stores for a total of 500 points of sale. It’s customized
Symbian to match its Qwerty phone with an enlarged watch face
and buttons for the concierge and other Vertu functions. Even
the ringtones are different from the standard Nokia fare.  “They’ve been quite clever and successful in keeping Vertu
separate from the Nokia brand,” says Professor Omar Merlo, who
studies marketing at Imperial College  London . “They obviously
want to avoid customers applying the same mass-market
associations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  