-- 
Nord Pool, Epex Spot Exchanges Plan Joint London-Based Power Platform

-- B y   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 
2011-09-28T13:28:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/nord-pool-epex-spot-exchanges-plan-joint-london-based-power-platform.html
Nord Pool Spot AS and Epex Spot SE,
 Europe ’s two biggest electricity exchanges for near-term
delivery, plan to start a joint-venture power trading platform
as the European Union seeks a single market for the bloc.  The two exchange companies signed a letter of intent to
start the as-yet unnamed venture next year and base it in
London, the two chief executive officers of the companies,
Mikael Lundin of Nord Pool Spot and Jean Francois Conil-Lacoste
at Epex Spot, said today at a press briefing in London.  The European Union plans to establish pan-European power
and gas markets by 2014, hoping to use  power plants  and networks
more efficiently to cut costs for consumers and traders. The
first step for Nord Pool and Epex will be to establish the legal
entity and start building the joint trading platform, aiming to
have it operational in three years, the chiefs said.  “Spot power exchanges are playing a key role together with
the transmission system operators, and we are setting the
pace,” Conil-Lacoste said at the briefing. The European Union’s
timeline is “extremely challenging,” he said.  The two companies will contribute equally to the new
venture, and open an office in London, Lundin said. Nord Pool
and Epex will keep their staff in their current offices. The
heads wouldn’t say how much capital they are investing.  Epex Spot  was created in 2009 when European Energy Exchange
AG and Powernext SA of  France  merged their power trading
businesses. The day-ahead markets also cover Austria and
 Switzerland .  ‘Blueprint for Europe’  Nord Pool Spot AS was formed in 2002 and offers trading in
the Nordic market. Nord Pool also owns the N2EX power exchange
in the U.K. together with  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) ’s commodities
unit.  “Maybe we’ll see one northwest European spot power
exchange one day and this could definitely be the blueprint for
Europe,” Lacoste said. “The steps we are taking now are not a
contradiction with such an event.” He didn’t rule out a full
merger of the two firms, adding there are no such plans today.  There may also be opportunities for other exchange
companies, including Amsterdam-based APX-Endex Holding BV, to
join the venture, they said.  Traders at utilities, banks and industrial consumers bought
and sold 310 terawatt-hours of electricity on Nord Pool Spot
last year, while Epex’s turnover was 279 terawatt-hours.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lars Paulsson in  London  at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  