-- 
North Korea Smuggling Weapons Components, Selling Arms Abroad, Cohen Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-28T08:47:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/north-korea-smuggling-weapons-components-selling-arms-abroad-cohen-says.html
North Korea  remains “intent” on
setting up front companies to smuggle material to build weapons
as well as selling arms abroad, the U.S. Treasury Department’s
Undersecretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence  David Cohen  said.  “North Korea remains intent on engaging in proliferation,
selling arms as well as bringing in material,” Cohen said in an
interview in Beijing following meetings with Chinese officials.
“North Korea is aggressively pursuing the effort to establish
front companies.”  Cohen’s comments come as China and North Korea, whose
premier visited Beijing this week, are seeking to restart
stalled talks aimed at denuclearizing the Korean peninsula.
While Cohen’s trip is mostly focused on stemming  Iran ’s weapons
proliferation and not related to those talks, his remarks
underscore continued U.S. grievances against North Korea.  North Korea is constrained by United Nations sanctions from
exporting or importing a wide range of arms, including missiles,
artillery, and attack helicopters as well as importing luxury
goods and materials that can be used to make missiles and atomic
weapons.  Cohen also said that Macau, the gambling center on  China ’s
southern coast near  Hong Kong , is no longer a target of U.S.
authorities after $25 million in funds at Banco Delta Asia SARL
were frozen six years ago. The money, allegedly laundered by the
North Korean regime, were unfrozen two years later.  “We don’t have any concerns as we sit here today with a
similar type situation in Macau,” Cohen said.  On Iran  On Iran, Cohen said the international community has made
“good progress” in constraining Iran’s ability to finance a
nuclear weapons program.  In China and in Hong Kong, Cohen told government officials
and business executives of the “importance on keeping an eye on
what Iran is up to and ensuring that Iran doesn’t find a welcome
entry into either of these financial sectors.”  Cohen met Chinese officials from the Ministry of  Foreign
Affairs  and the Ministry of Finance, and said their response has
“been quite good.”  While illicit financing to Iran may have been restrained,
China’s imports of crude oil from the country have surged in
recent months, according to Chinese customs figures. China
imported $2.2 billion in oil from Iran in July, the highest
amount in dollar terms in three years. Imports fell in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  