-- 
Norway Bank Regulator Calls for Tougher Mortgage Loan Rules

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-09-28T10:50:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/norway-s-fsa-recommends-lowering-mortgage-ltv-ratio-to-85-.html
Norway ’s financial regulator
recommended lowering a cap on how much consumers can borrow for
home purchases as it seeks to prevent household credit growth
from fanning a property market bubble.  The loan-to-value ratio on home loans should be capped at
85 percent, down from a recommendation of 90 percent, the Oslo-
based Financial Supervisory Authority said today in a statement.
The agency also said it sent a proposal to the  Finance Ministry 
to give it legal authority to enforce lending standards.  “The vigorous growth in  house prices  and  household debt 
heightens the risk of financial instability,” Morten Baltzersen, the FSA’s director general, said in a statement. A
survey for 2011 “shows that the proportion of residential
mortgages with a high loan-to-value ratio is on the increase,
and a round of inspections of mortgage lending practice at a
selection of banks shows that credit assessments need to
improve.”  The regulator is seeking to tighten a market where  home
prices  gained an annual 9.4 percent in August, according to data
from Norway’s Real Estate Brokers Association. Household
borrowing rose an annual 7.1 percent in July, near a 2 1/2-year
high,  Statistics Norway  said. The  central bank  estimates
consumer debt burdens will grow to more than 204 percent of
disposable income next year, the highest since at least 1988.  Limited Effect  Lenders should also make allowance for a rate increase of 5
percentage points when assessing a borrower’s debt-servicing
ability, the agency said, among other changes that also limit
the use of non-amortizing loans. The agency will seek comment
from consumer and financial organization before setting the
final guidelines, according to today’s report.  “Stricter guidelines for  mortgage loans  will first and
foremost hurt young, first-time buyers that don’t have help from
the parents, and only have a limited effect in reducing pressure
in the housing market,” said Arne Hyttnes, head of Finance
Norway, a banking trade group, in a statement. Expansionary
monetary and fiscal policy, tax incentives and limited housing
development are the main drivers for housing prices, he said.  LTV Grows  The regulator’s previous 90 percent guideline was
introduced last year in an effort to cool the market. In
Neighboring Sweden, similar measures haven’t prevented home
prices from rising and property values there have gained 7
percent since October, when an 85 percent cap was introduced.  The FSA said today that a survey showed that 26 percent of
mortgages had a loan-to-value ratio of more than 90 percent this
year. In 2010, 21 percent of the loans had an LTV above 90
percent.  Europe ’s lowest unemployment rate, at 2.7 percent, and
estimated wage growth of more than 4 percent this year have
fueled demand for credit in Norway and pushed property prices
above pre-crisis records. The housing market faces added price
pressure after a deepening European debt crisis and a weaker
global growth outlook forced Norway’s central bank last week to
signal unchanged rates this year.  “The housing market and credit is one of the most
important variables and markets that we follow when we set
 interest rates ,” said Central Bank Deputy Governor Jan F. Qvigstad in an interview last week, adding that the bank
“shares” the FSA’s concern on housing risks.  Policy makers held the overnight deposit rate at 2.25
percent this month amid slowing global growth and as their
counterparts in Washington, Frankfurt and  Stockholm  also remain
on hold. The Oslo-based bank has signaled it doesn’t want rates
to stray too far from borrowing costs elsewhere as it seeks to
prevent krone gains.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  