-- 
Norway to Cut Bank Support as Europe Girds for Deeper Crisis

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-09-29T08:15:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/norway-to-cut-bank-support-as-europe-braces-for-deeper-crisis.html
Norway’s central bank will force
lenders to wean themselves off its deposit facility in an effort
to spur interbank lending even as Europe’s debt crisis threatens
to trigger a region-wide liquidity squeeze.  “Norges Bank wants the banks to use each other more for
placing their money,” Kari Due-Andresen, an analyst at Svenska
Handelsbanken AB in Oslo and former  central bank  economist, said
in an interview. “But what the banks say is that at the moment
the situation is so insecure and they are hoarding their own
cash, so the new measures will just make things worse.”  Norges Bank  will impose  a quota on bank reserves starting
next month, seeking to cap the total amount left with the
central bank at 45 billion kroner ($7.9 billion) a day in an
effort to force lenders to rely on each other for funds and help
reduce interbank spreads. That’s unlikely to work as the
prospect of European bank losses amid a deepening debt crisis
prompts lenders to shun the interbank market and forces spreads
even wider, according to Due-Andresen.  Reluctance amongst  Europe ’s banks to lend on the interbank
market is the highest in more than 2 1/2 years, market rates
indicate. The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between the
three-month European interbank offered rate and overnight index
swaps, rose this week to 91 basis points, the highest since
March 18, 2009, Bloomberg data show.  Substantial Stresses  The difference between the central bank’s deposit rate and
the three-month Norway interbank offered rate widened to 84
basis points this week, versus a May low of 43. Market
expectations derived from forward contracts show the policy rate
at 2.06 percent in three months, widening the Nibor spread to
100 basis points, according to Kyrre Aamdal, a senior economist
at the country’s biggest bank.  The central bank said the wider spread isn’t enough to
force it to reconsider the deposit quota, first announced in
October last year.  “Of course if there should be substantial stresses in the
system, we will as always address those issues when they
arrive,” said Kristine Falkgaard, director at Norges Bank’s
department for market operations and analysis, in an interview.
“But up until now we still believe that the market situation is
not such that it will alter our announced plans in terms of the
size of the quotas and the reserves.”  Spread Widens  The difference in yield on  Norway ’s 10-year bonds and
similar-maturity German bunds widened four basis points today to
41, the biggest jump in a week. Shares in DnB NOR lost as much
as 1.3 percent before trading down 0.3 percent at 58.65 as of
9:41 a.m. in Oslo.  Lenders exceeding the central bank’s deposit quota will be
forced to accept a rate that’s 100 basis points lower than the
deposit rate, which has been at 2.25 percent since May 12. The
45 billion-krone cap on the daily quota is 30 percent less than
the  daily average  banks have deposited with the central bank
this month through Sept. 22.  “The new system imposes a cap on total liquidity in the
Norwegian money market and this cap is lower than what has been
deemed necessary in the last few weeks,” said Gaute Marius Langeland, a senior analyst at  Nordea Markets  in Oslo. “Banks
will end up with less liquidity under the new regime.”  Europe’s banks are struggling to stay profitable as they
face losses on sovereign debt holdings and as tougher global
regulatory standards force them to raise capital buffers. In the
euro area, the  European Central Bank  has responded by boosting
liquidity, amongst other things through a dollar lending
facility.  Norway Stands Out  Norges Bank’s plan to impose bank deposit quotas in this
environment “definitely stands out from the rest of the world
at the moment,” Erica Blomgren, chief strategist for Norway at
SEB AB, said in an interview. “You have so much uncertainty
right now in the markets regarding the debt crisis, regarding
new regulations and this adds an element of uncertainty.”  The country’s bankers organization, Finance Norway, is “a
bit skeptical” toward the central bank’s plan, said Arne Hyttnes, the group’s managing director. “We don’t like it, but
we can see the argument to get a better functioning  interbank
market ,” he said.  While policy makers want to force banks to normalize
interbank lending by relying more on each other, market stresses
may be too severe now to allow such measures.  Finding Alternatives  That means the central bank’s quota won’t succeed in
reducing interbank spreads, according to Aamdal. What’s more,
“small banks often use deposits to fulfill their liquidity
requirements,” he said. “With a low quota it may be difficult
to find other liquidity instruments.”  Norway’s financial system may also come under pressure as
the country faces a housing market bubble, according to Morten Baltzersen, the head of the country’s Financial Supervisory
Authority.  Norway’s $524 billion  sovereign-wealth fund  has so far
shielded the country from the worst of Europe’s debt crisis.
Still, adding to bank industry stresses as household
indebtedness soars to the highest in more than two decades may
stall recovery prospects. The central bank estimates consumer
burdens will grow to more than 204 percent of disposable income
next year, the highest since at least 1988.  Norway in the early 1990s seized control of its biggest
banks, in part because of a real estate slump that followed a
surge in lending growth triggered by deregulation in the 1980s.  The central bank kept its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged
for a third consecutive meeting on Sept. 21 and signaled it may
postpone planned rate increase until next year as policy makers
respond to the risk of a deepening European debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  