-- 
NRC Has Authority to Deal With Seismic Risks, Lochbaum Says

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-09-28T18:35:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/nrc-has-authority-to-deal-with-seismic-risks-lochbaum-says-1-.html
Nuclear regulators already have
“sufficient information and knowledge” to deal with earthquake
risks at existing U.S. reactors and don’t need to wait for a
broader review, a safety advocate said.  The   Nuclear Regulatory Commission  developed seismic rules
for new plants in 1996 and has since approved preliminary
construction for proposed nuclear units at a  Southern Co. (SO)  plant
in  Georgia  and certified an early reactor design by  Toshiba
Corp. (6502) ’s Westinghouse Electric unit, according to comments filed
with the agency today by  David Lochbaum , director of the Nuclear
Safety Project at the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Union of
Concerned Scientists.  “If the NRC truly lacks sufficient information about
seismic hazards and how safety at nuclear power reactors is
affected, then the agency cannot responsibly have issued early
site permits and certified new reactor designs,” he said.  The NRC is in the process of evaluating seismic hazards in
the central and eastern U.S. in response to updated geologic
information. By the end of this year, the agency plans to
develop an earthquake probability model for reactor owners to
use and may require all U.S. plants to review their seismic
risks within the next two years.  The NRC has said “repeatedly” the broad seismic review
“deals with an issue that fails to present an immediate safety
concern,” Scott Burnell, an agency spokesman, said in an e-
mail. Existing plants are built to “safely withstand the
earthquakes at their sites,” he said.  Earthquake Protections  The NRC is weighing requirements to bolster plant
protections against earthquakes and floods in the wake of the
nuclear disaster in  Japan  caused by a March temblor and tsunami
that led to radiation leaks and meltdowns at Tokyo Electric
Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.  An 5.8-magnitude earthquake in  Virginia  on Aug. 23 shut
down reactors at Dominion Resources Inc.’s North Anna nuclear
plant, about 11 miles (18 kilometers) from the epicenter.  The Virginia earthquake caused no significant damage at
North Anna, even though ground shaking exceeded the plant’s
design limits, Dominion has said.  “The recent experience at North Anna supports the agency’s
conclusion” that existing plants are built to withstand
earthquakes at their sites, Burnell said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  