-- 
NYC Comptroller John Liu Paid Pimco Fund $14 Million in Incentive Fees

-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-09-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/nyc-comptroller-john-liu-paid-pimco-fund-14-million-in-incentive-fees.html
New York  City’s largest pension
fund paid Pacific Investment Management Co. $14 million during
the first six months of 2010 in what Comptroller  John Liu ’s
office describes as incentive fees.  The comptroller disclosed the payment in a Sept. 26
response to a Bloomberg News appeal of his decision to withhold
details about who got $32 million in “organizational costs”
paid to private-equity and real-estate firms.  The $14 million went to Pimco’s Distressed Senior Credit
Opportunities Fund from the  New York City  Employees’ Retirement
System, or NYCERS, which Liu supervises. The $41.6 billion fund
manages money for 347,000 current and retired city workers, the
most of any U.S. municipal retirement system.  “Although NYCERS reported all of these expenses as
organizational costs, we report them as private equity,
opportunistic and real-estate partnership expenses,” wrote
Ricardo Morales, the comptroller’s general counsel, in a letter
granting part of the Bloomberg News appeal. “The types of
expenses funds may charge as partnership expenses include
organizational expenses, transaction fees, interest, tax
payments and other expenses.”  Incentive fees are extra compensation paid to investment
managers if they meet performance objectives in their contracts.
 Mark Porterfield , a Pimco spokesman, didn't respond to a
telephone call and an e-mail message seeking comment.  60% Return  The Pimco fund returned more than 60 percent in fiscal 2010
-- from July 1, 2009, to June 30, 2010 -- and the $14 million in
incentives compensated for that performance, said Michael Loughran, a Liu spokesman. The retirement system for the city’s
civil employees had $220 million invested in the  Newport Beach ,
California-based firm’s distressed-bond fund on June 30, 2010.  In addition to the incentive payments, the pension’s 2010
annual report shows it also paid Pimco’s distressed fund $1.3
million in management fees.  A document released by Morales listed $17 million in
partnership expenses paid to more than 200 investment funds, in
addition to the incentive fees paid to Pimco. Liu’s office
wouldn’t provide details on how that money was spent.  The document lists incentive fees paid to two other
investment funds, both much smaller than those paid to Pimco.  An Angelo, Gordon & Co. and GE Capital fund that managed
about $20 million also received an incentive fee of $207,837,
and an Alliance Bernstein fund received $287,709 to manage about
$40 million in the 2010 fiscal year, according to the
comptroller’s office. Both funds participate in the U.S.
Treasury’s Public Private Investment Program, which finances the
purchases of distressed mortgage securities.  Pledged Openness  Liu, 44, a Democrat, was elected after vowing to open for
public scrutiny the operations of the city’s five employee
pension funds supervised by the comptroller. His pledge followed
a scandal in which a former Democratic city and state
comptroller,  Alan Hevesi , admitted getting almost $1 million in
payments and favors for himself and his friends from investment
firms in return for hiring them to manage pension assets.  Liu has  banned  gifts to workers in his department, mandated
disclosure of contacts between investment managers and employees
and required firms to disclose fees paid to middlemen. He also
created  websites  with information on city contracts and
advocated webcasts of pension board meetings.  When his office refused to disclose the recipients or the
nature of the $32 million in organizational costs listed as a
line item in the 2010 annual report for the civil employees’
pension, Bloomberg News sought the information under the state’s
freedom of information law.  The office denied the information more than three months
after the inquiry, and Bloomberg News appealed.  Pimco, home to  Bill Gross ’s $245 billion Total Return Fund,
is owned by Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE. (ALV)  The investment
firm’s assets under management expanded more than sixfold in the
past decade to $1.3 trillion.  Pimco set up the Distressed Senior Credit Opportunities
Fund to buy mortgage-backed debt that plunged in value after the
subprime market collapsed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York  City Hall  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 