-- 
Obama Jobs Plan Prevents 2012 Recession in Survey of Economists

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-09-28T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/obama-jobs-plan-prevents-2012-recession-in-survey-of-economists.html
President  Barack Obama ’s $447
billion jobs plan would help avoid a return to recession by
maintaining growth and pushing down the unemployment rate next
year, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The legislation, submitted to Congress this month, would
increase gross domestic product by 0.6 percent next year and add
or keep 275,000 workers on payrolls, the median estimates in the
survey of 34 economists showed. The program would also lower the
jobless rate by 0.2 percentage point in 2012, economists said.  Economists in the survey are less optimistic than Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , who has cited estimates for a 1.5
percent boost to gross domestic product. Even so, the program
may bolster Obama’s re-election prospects by lowering a jobless
rate that has stayed near 9 percent or more since April 2009.  The plan “prevents a contraction of the economy in the
first quarter” of next year, said  John Herrmann , a senior
fixed-income strategist at State Street Global Markets LLC in
 Boston , who participated in the survey. “It leads to more
retention of workers than net new hires.”  Some 13,000 jobs would be created in 2013, bringing the
total to 288,000 over two years, according to the survey.
Employers in the U.S. added 1.26 million workers in the past 12
months, Labor Department data show.  Obama’s  plan , announced on Sept. 8, calls for cutting the
payroll taxes paid by workers and small businesses while
extending  unemployment insurance . It also includes an increase
in infrastructure spending and more aid for cash-strapped state
governments.  ‘What Happens?’  “The important thing to consider is: What happens if we
don’t do anything?” said  Scott Brown , chief economist at
Raymond James & Associates Inc. in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida . He
said the program “very well could” forestall a recession in
early 2012.  “Most of all, it prevents a serious drag on the economy
next year” from current programs expiring, said Brown, who
estimates the Obama plan would add 0.5 percent to GDP in 2012.  A reduction in  government spending , the end of the payroll-
tax holiday and an expiration of extended  unemployment benefits 
would cut GDP by 1.7 percent in 2012, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. chief U.S. economist Michael Feroli in New York.
Instead, the Obama proposal makes up for that potential loss and
may add a net 0.1 percent to the economy, he estimates.  State Aid  Tax cuts account for more than half the dollar value of the
Obama plan, which also includes $105 billion in spending for
school modernization, transportation projects and rehabilitation
of vacant properties, according to a White House fact sheet. The
proposal includes $35 billion in direct aid to state and local
governments to stem dismissals of educators and emergency
personnel.  “Some of this is just extending support that was already
in place,” said  Julia Coronado , chief economist for North
America at BNP Paribas in  New York . “The actual jobs programs
themselves, I don’t think that they’re a game-changer.”  She estimates the proposal will add 200,000 new workers,
while retaining about 300,000 jobs that might otherwise be lost.  Republican lawmakers in Congress have expressed opposition
to parts of the White House legislation. House leaders object to
Obama’s plan to cut payroll taxes, saying it would lead to an
overly large boost in taxes when the temporary break ended.  Tax Burden  In a memo to House Republicans on Sept. 16, House Speaker
 John Boehner , Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  and other leaders
detailed several criticisms of the payroll-tax idea. The
lawmakers said an added tax burden would result when, under the
president’s plan, an extension and expansion of a “holiday” on
such taxes for employees and employers would expire in 2013.  Herrmann agreed. “We’re setting ourselves up for a big end
to the sugar high in the first half of 2013,” he said.  A majority of Americans don’t believe Obama’s jobs proposal
will help lower the  unemployment rate , according to a Bloomberg
National Poll conducted Sept. 9-12 by Selzer & Co. of Des
Moines,  Iowa .  “It’s not really going to have anything more than a
marginal impact,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at
Pierpont Securities LLC in Stamford, Connecticut. “It’s just
maintaining the status quo: extending the payroll-tax cuts and
unemployment benefits. The bulk of the money is going to go to
firms that would’ve hired anyway.”  Stanley estimated the program would increase payrolls by
50,000 and add 0.25 percent to GDP next year.  Fiscal Policy  While the White House hasn’t given an estimate of how the
proposal would affect GDP, Geithner cited the plan Sept. 24 in
an address at the annual meeting of the  International Monetary
Fund . Without additional near-term support, “fiscal policy in
the U.S. will be overly contractionary and the  U.S. economy  will
likely grow below its potential in 2012,” Geithner said.  He said private economists estimate the proposal could
increase real economic growth next year by around “one and a
half percentage points and create more than 1 million jobs at a
critical moment in the recovery.”  In the Bloomberg survey, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimated
the plan would add 1.5 percent to the economy, while
Macroeconomic Advisers LLC said 1.3 percent and UniCredit
Research, up to 2 percent.  The U.S. economy faces “significant downside risks,” the
 Federal Reserve  said in a statement on Sept. 21 as it announced
a plan to shift $400 billion of its Treasury securities holdings
into longer-term debt to bring down borrowing costs.  The world’s largest economy grew 3 percent last year before
slowing to a 0.4 percent annual pace in the first three months
of 2011, followed by 1 percent in the second quarter, according
to Commerce Department figures.  The economy will expand 2.2 percent next year, according to
a separate Bloomberg survey of economists conducted Sept. 2 to
Sept. 7. The same survey said the unemployment rate would
average 8.8 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  