-- 
Obama Vows to Keep Pressing for Immigration Law Overhaul

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-09-28T17:00:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/obama-vows-to-keep-pressing-for-immigration-law-overhaul.html
President  Barack Obama  told a
Hispanic audience that he would continue to “push hard” for an
overhaul of U.S. immigration laws even as his administration
steps up border security and deportations.  Answering questions today at a White House roundtable
discussion, Obama said he has consistently supported revamping
laws that regulate immigration and creating a pathway to
citizenship for those in the U.S. illegally. Support for such
changes has declined in Congress, particularly among
Republicans, stalling attempts to pass legislation, he said.  “We’re a nation of laws, but we’re also a nation of
immigrants,” Obama said at the forum for readers of  Yahoo! en
Espanol ,  MSN Latino ,  AOL Latino  and  Huffington Post Latino
Voices .  In the 2008 presidential election, 67 percent of Hispanic
voters supported Obama and 31 percent backed the Republican
candidate, Arizona Senator  John McCain , according to the Pew
Research Center in Washington. As the 2012 vote approaches,
Obama’s support has been waning because of the sluggish economy
and an unemployment rate of 9.1 percent.  The jobless rate among Hispanics was 11.3 percent in
August, according to the Labor Department.  Obama’s approval rating among Hispanics sank to 48 percent
in August from 60 percent in January, according to a Gallup
Organization analysis of daily tracking poll data from Aug.
1-31.  Still, Gallup said that more Hispanics approve of his job
performance than disapprove, 48 percent to 37 percent. By
comparison, Obama’s approval rating among the general public was
at 42 percent in Gallup’s Sept. 24-26 tracking poll.  More Deportations  Obama also defended his administration’s tightening of
border security and stepped-up deportations.  The U.S. arrested 2,900 illegal immigrants with prior
criminal convictions over seven days in the largest such
nationwide crackdown, Immigration and Customs Enforcement said
today.  “What we’ve been doing is, with stronger border
enforcement, we’ve been apprehending folks at the borders and
sending them back,” Obama said.  The event was streamed live at  the White House website  in
English and dubbed into Spanish, the White House said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in  Washington  at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  