-- 
Obama Lawyers Appeal to U.S. High Court on Health-Care Law

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-09-28T22:18:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/obama-lawyers-say-supreme-court-should-review-health-care-law.html
President  Barack Obama ’s
administration asked the U.S. Supreme Court to review last
year’s landmark health-care law, a move that may lead to a
ruling months before the 2012 presidential election.  Calling the issue “a matter of grave national
importance,” administration lawyers today appealed a lower
court ruling that declared part of the law unconstitutional.
Earlier in the day, 26 states filed their own appeal, saying the
lower court should have gone further and voided the whole
statute, which was championed by Obama.  The lower court ruling “is fundamentally flawed and denies
Congress the broad deference it is due in enacting laws to
address the nation’s most pressing economic problems and set tax
policy,” U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli argued in the
administration’s  appeal .  The  Supreme Court  usually agrees to hear appeals when both
sides in a dispute seek a hearing, particularly when the federal
government is one of the litigants. The justices often take
cases when federal appeals courts are divided on an issue, as
they are over the health-care law.  “The Supreme Court now effectively has to take the case,”
said Gregory Katsas, a lawyer who filed a third appeal today, on
behalf of the National Federation of  Independent Business , a
small-business trade group in Nashville,  Tennessee , seeking to
invalidate the law.  Expanding Coverage  A decision is likely to come in late June, at the end of
the nine-month term that starts next week, and just as the
presidential campaign will become focused on the two party
nominees who will face each other in the November election.  All eight Republicans seeking the party’s presidential
nomination favor repealing the health-care law. The two
candidates leading in the polls, Texas Governor  Rick Perry  and
former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney, each vowed at a Sept.
12 Republican debate to block the law’s implementation without
waiting for Congress to repeal it.  The health law would expand coverage to an estimated 32
million Americans who lack insurance, largely through an
expansion of the federal-state Medicaid program for the poor and
by setting up “exchanges,” in which consumers will be able to
buy insurance.  The Atlanta-based appeals court ruled in August that
Congress lacked the constitutional power to pass a provision
that requires people to either get insurance or pay a penalty.
The government’s appeal contends that Congress enacted that
mandate under its authority to regulate interstate commerce and
to impose taxes.  Mandate is ‘Integral’  The mandate “is an integral part of a comprehensive
regulatory scheme that the commerce power plainly authorizes
Congress to enact,” Verrilli argued.  The states’ appeal focuses on different aspects of the
lower court ruling. The appeals court said it would strike down
only the insurance mandate, leaving intact other provisions,
including a requirement that insurers accept applicants with
pre-existing conditions.  There is “compelling evidence that Congress intended the
mandate to function as the act’s essential lynchpin and would
never have passed the act without it,” said the states’ lead
lawyer, former U.S. Solicitor General  Paul Clement .  The states are also asking the  high court  to scrutinize the
law’s Medicaid expansion, which the appeals court upheld. The
states contend that the provision improperly threatens states
with the loss of all federal Medicaid funding if they don’t
expand coverage.  Another Challenge  The law “passes the point at which pressure turns into
compulsion and achieves forbidden direct regulation of the
states,” Clement argued.  A different federal appeals court upheld the law in a
separate case, and a Michigan public interest law firm is
already appealing that ruling to the Supreme Court.  The states asked the high court to move quickly to review
the Affordable Care Act, as the law is known.  “Time is of the essence,” Clement argued. “States need
to know whether they must adapt their policies to deal with the
brave new world ushered in by the ACA.”  The  Justice Department  in a statement predicted the court
would uphold the law.  “Throughout history, there have been similar challenges to
other landmark legislation such as the  Social Security Act , the
Civil Rights Act and the Voting Rights Act, and all of those
challenges failed,” the Justice Department said. It said
challenges to the health-care law “will also ultimately fail.”  The federal government’s appeal is  U.S. Department of
Health  and Human Services v.  Florida , 11-398. The states’ case
is Florida v. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  