-- 
Off-With-Our-Heads Missouri Mayor Pitches Municipal Mercy Killing to Town

-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 
2011-09-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/off-with-our-heads-missouri-mayor-pitches-mercy-killing-for-town.html
Carmen Wilkerson ran for mayor of
 St. George , Missouri, this year with a pledge: Elect me and kiss
our town goodbye -- all 10 streets, two businesses and one
stoplight.  Wilkerson is asking voters to bury the three-decade-long
heritage of a south St. Louis suburb best known as a speed trap
that financed the salaries of unneeded police. The county should
run the place, said Wilkerson, who views this as a municipal
mercy killing of St. George, age 63, population 1,337,
reputation checkered.  “The whole thing is just a waste of tax dollars,”
Wilkerson said in an interview at City Hall. “I just don’t see
any reason to go on.”  The Nov. 8 vote on so-called disincorporation comes as cost
pressures force municipalities to consider sharing services,
merging with neighbors, or surrendering self-governance. The
U.S. Census Bureau reported yesterday that property-tax
collections -- the main source of income for cities and counties
-- dropped 1.2 percent in the second quarter, the third-straight
decline.  In November, New Jersey voters in the borough and township
of Princeton will decide whether to merge. In Indiana, Muncie
and Delaware County will consider consolidation next year.
Voters in eight New York communities have voted to
disincorporate since 2008, according to the Rochester-based
 Center for Governmental Research , a nonprofit that advises local
governments on consolidation.  ‘Terrible Reputation’  Driving these moves are the 18-month recession that ended
in June 2009 and the housing slump, which depressed  tax revenue ,
said Charles Zettek, the center’s vice president and director of
government management services.  “Citizens are willing to say, ‘Let’s put ourselves out of
business,’” Zettek said.  St. George is weighing what Zettek calls “the nuclear
option.”  Some residents want to avoid such a cataclysm. Alderwoman
Nelda True said there’s no pressing need to fold the tents.  “What’s the big deal?” she said. “We’ve got a nice
little city here.”  St. George has an outsize reputation for a small town.
Until two years ago, a police force of 12 officers picked off
drivers who exceeded the 30 mph limit on Reavis Barracks Road,
near Imo’s Pizza. Revenue from the tickets paid for the force
and a municipal court, drawing notoriety to the community and
tarring St. George with “a terrible reputation,” said
Alderwoman Tina Charpentier.  Confiscated Keys  After the village drew national attention on  YouTube  with a
video showing an officer threatening a driver, the police
department was disbanded in 2008 and the municipal court was
closed this year. The county now provides police protection.  City Hall  is an 800-square-foot gray paneled house with
stained carpeting and 35 folding chairs formerly occupied by
drivers challenging speeding tickets. The basement that housed
the police department has a pile of confiscated car keys, file
cabinets of court documents and wall shackles now covered by
plastic electrical plates. The jail’s holding tank now houses
the town mascot, a figure of a knight in shining armor.  Wilkerson wondered why the town needs to maintain a
government when it has no cops, no court and nothing to run
except a snow plow.  In February, 500 people, representing 60 percent of
registered voters, signed petitions proposing to turn the
operation over to St. Louis County. Sixty percent of St. George
voters would have to approve the measure.  Just One Snowplow  Governing St. George wouldn’t amount to heavy lifting for
the county, which has about 1 million residents and is the
state’s most populous. The town is less than half a square mile,
with 750 structures, half of which are in a condominium complex,
the other half single-story homes. It’s what Wilkerson calls “a
town for newlyweds and nearly dead.” Twenty-six percent of the
population is 60 or older.  The town owns a truck with a snow plow and shovels to fill
potholes. No schools, no debt, no serious crime.  Former Mayor Mary Jo Fitzpatrick said she is puzzled by the
move to disband and is convinced residents will wind up paying
higher taxes for fewer services. She complained that Wilkerson
called the town’s supporters “village idiots.”  “I don’t think we’re village idiots,” Fitzpatrick said.  St. George would not be the first  Missouri  town to call it
a day. Peerless Park, with about 50 residents, shut down in
1999, and Times Beach was disincorporated in 1985 and demolished
in 1992 after dioxin contamination was discovered.  St. Louis County, which has 91 municipalities -- 70 with
fewer than 10,000 residents -- has not taken a position on the
St. George proposal, said spokesman Mac Scott. However, County
Executive Charlie Dooley “believes there are communities that
should be disincorporated. It would be better for the
residents,” Scott said.  While the county executive “is a believer in small
communities, that doesn’t mean that every single community is a
viable entity,” Scott said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago, at 
 Tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  