-- 
Crude Oil Set for Second Straight Quarterly Decline on Europe Debt Crisis

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-09-28T19:47:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/oil-falls-in-new-york-heading-for-quarterly-decline-on-europe-debt-crisis.html
Crude oil fell in New York, heading
for the biggest quarterly drop since 2008, on concern that
 Europe ’s debt crisis will linger and on rising U.S. stockpiles.  Futures dropped 3.8 percent as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  signaled policy makers may review  Greece ’s second bailout
after inspectors rule on whether the country is meeting the
terms of its current package. Supplies rose 1.92 million barrels
to 341 million last week, the U.S. Energy Department said today.
Prices rose 5.3 percent yesterday, the biggest gain since May 9.  “The markets are questioning the details of the European
bailout,” said  Tom Bentz , a broker with BNP Paribas Commodity
Futures Inc. in New York. “The market surged yesterday and
we’re now seeing it give back most of those gains. The move
higher was overdone.”  Crude oil for November delivery declined $3.24 to settle at
$81.21 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures are
down 8.6 percent this month and 11 percent this year. Prices
have dropped 15 percent since the end of June, the biggest
quarterly loss since the last three months of 2008.  Brent oil for November settlement fell $3.33, or 3.1
percent, to end the session at $103.81 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. It traded at a premium of
$22.60 to New York crude, down from a record $26.87 on Sept. 6.  Greece’s “numbers in September, as it now seems, were
again different from what we expected under the program,”
Merkel told Greek broadcaster NET when asked whether the second
bailout agreed by European leaders on July 21 will be revised.  Return to Athens  Experts from the European Commission,  European Central Bank 
and  International Monetary Fund  will return to Athens tomorrow
as officials race to put in place a package of measures that
will contain Greece. Euro-area finance ministers will hold a
meeting on Greece in October amid concerns that a default could
plunge the global economy into recession.  “Market sentiment changes from one day to the next based
on optimism or despair about the Greek situation,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
Stamford,  Connecticut . “Prices are hemmed in, moving in either
direction on the most recent headlines about the European debt
crisis and the  U.S. economy .”  Merkel’s remarks came as a person familiar with the matter
said German banks are resisting pressure to accept larger
writedowns on their Greek holdings. Lawmakers have called on
lenders to accept a larger writedown than the 21 percent
proposed by the  Institute of International Finance , an industry
group, said a person briefed on the talks.  Rescue Package  Earlier, the Financial Times Deutschland reported euro
members have started talks on renegotiating the second bailout.
Banks and insurance companies might have to increase their
contribution to the rescue package, the German newspaper  said ,
citing unidentified people familiar with the situation.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 1.4 percent to
1,159.01 and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell 1 percent to
11,079.24.  The dollar rose 0.1 percent to $1.357 against the euro, the
first gain in four days. A stronger U.S. currency curbs the
appeal of dollar-denominated commodities as an investment. The
S&P GSCI Index of 24 raw materials fell 2.7 percent to 603.55.
Yesterday, the index climbed 3.3 percent, the most since May 9.  “Almost all of the commodities are getting whipped
today,” said Todd Horwitz, chief strategist at Adam Mesh
Trading Group in  New York . “They overshot to the upside and the
move higher has run out of steam.”  Imports and Refining  Crude stockpiles advanced as imports rose and refineries
reduced operating rates. Imports surged 16 percent to 9.7
million barrels a day. It was the biggest gain since September
2008. Refineries operated at 87.8 percent of capacity, down 0.5
percentage points from the prior week.  Supplies of crude were forecast to increase 2.05 million
barrels, according to the median of 14 analyst responses in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Gasoline stockpiles rose 791,000 barrels to 214.9 million
in the week ended Sept. 23, the report showed. Supplies of
distillate fuel, a category that includes heating oil and
diesel, increased 72,000 barrels to 157.7 million.  Speculation that refineries on the U.S. East Coast will
shut may send oil lower.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  said yesterday that it
had begun to idle its refinery in Trainer,  Pennsylvania . The
plant will shut permanently in six months if Conoco can’t find a
buyer.  Sunoco Inc. (SUN)  said Sept. 6 that it will sell or shut its
Philadelphia and  Marcus Hook , Pennsylvania, refineries.  East Coast Refineries  “The crude market is also under pressure because of the
announcement of yet another possible shutdown of an East Coast
refinery,” said Carl Larry, director of energy derivatives and
research at Blue Ocean Brokerage LLC in New York. “At some
point we’ll be able to count on both hands the number of
operable refineries on the East Coast.”  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 441,052
contracts as of 3:20 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 541,721
contracts yesterday, 18 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.38 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 