-- 
Oil-Tanker Losses Double as Growth in Supply Overwhelms Demand

-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 
2011-09-28T17:10:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/oil-tanker-losses-double-as-growth-in-supply-overwhelms-demand.html
Losses for owners of supertankers
hauling 2 million-barrels of crude oil to  Asia  from the  Persian
Gulf  more than doubled as a glut of ships overwhelms demand.  Very large crude carriers, or VLCCs, on the benchmark Saudi
Arabia-to-Japan route are losing $4,452 a day, compared with
$2,116 yesterday, according to data from the  Baltic Exchange  in
London. Rates have been negative since Aug. 26., according to
the exchange, which covers more than 50 maritime routes.  “The excess supply limits the probability of any short
term increase in rates,” Martin Korsvold, an analyst at Pareto
Securities AS in Oslo, wrote in an e-mailed report today.  Global demand for supertankers will expand 5.2 percent this
year to 144.3 million deadweight tons, according to Clarkson
Research Services Ltd., a unit of Clarkson Plc, the world’s
largest shipbroker. The fleet will swell almost twice as fast,
expanding 9.9 percent to 176.9 million tons, it estimates.  Rental income can be boosted by reducing a ship’s speed on
a return journey after a vessel has unloaded its cargo, saving
fuel costs. The price of ship fuel, or bunkers, advanced 25
percent from the start of the year to $636.50 a metric ton, data
compiled by Bloomberg from 25 ports worldwide showed.  Earnings estimates from the exchange don’t reflect speed
alterations that can cut fuel consumption. Owners have yet to
curb the glut either by reducing speeds, scrapping ships or
mothballing tankers, even with rates on about three-quarters of
routes at “multi-year” lows, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst
Edouard Baldini in  London  wrote in a Sept. 19 report.  Charter rates for VLCCs on the benchmark voyage decreased
2.9 percent to 42.68 Worldscale points, according to the
exchange. The points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or flat
rate, for more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for
every voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a ton, are revised annually
by the Worldscale Association in London to reflect changing fuel
costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, an overall measure of
shipping crude oil that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs, was
unchanged at 693 points, according to the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  