-- 
Money Market Investors May Get Some Relief From the Fed’s Operation Twist

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-09-28T04:00:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/money-market-investors-may-get-some-relief-from-the-fed-s-operation-twist.html
Investors in U.S.  money market
funds  may get some relief from record-low returns when the
 Federal Reserve  begins to sell short-term debt as part of its
latest stimulus effort that’s been dubbed Operation Twist.  The rate to borrow and lend Treasuries for one day in the
repurchase agreement market may rise six to eight basis points,
according to Barclays Plc. Overnight general collateral repo
agreements for Treasuries averaged 0.069 percent since June,
while one-month Treasury bill rates averaged 0.0113 percent. The
one-month bill has traded below zero almost every day since mid-
August.  The Fed’s plan to begin selling $400 billion of Treasuries
due in three years and less next month to fund purchases of a
similar amount of longer-maturity debt comes as investors park
cash in money funds. Investors have been seeking a refuge from
 Europe ’s debt crisis and slowing growth. Custody banks have also
been hurt by persistent low interest rates, which reduce income
from lending cash and securities and cut fees from the funds.
 Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the world’s largest custody bank,
said last month it will begin charging customers for
“extraordinarily high” cash deposits.  “A significant portion of the Fed’s sales of shorter-dated
holdings will ultimately find a home with money market funds,”
Kenneth Silliman, head of U.S. short-term rates trading at
Toronto Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit in New York, said in
a telephone interview. “Money funds have been desperately
seeking Treasuries with a positive yield.”  Money Flows  Demand for short-term government debt instruments has risen
this year as the supply of Treasury bills fell due to reduced
government sales, causing money market rates to trade below
zero. The Fed has kept its benchmark rate for overnight loans at
near zero percent since 2008 and purchased assets to lower long-
term rates.  During the six-week period ended Sept. 20, money-market
mutual funds took in $66 billion, according to research firm
Crane Data LLC, based in Westborough,  Massachusetts . Total
assets in the funds rose to $2.59 trillion, including $2.3
trillion in taxable and $1.46 trillion in prime funds.  One-month Treasury bill rates averaged negative 0.0035
percent over the last month. Two-year Treasury note yields have
risen to 0.24 percent from 0.20 percent on Sept. 21, the day the
Fed announced its latest debt purchase program.  The influx of securities from the Fed’s sales may cause
repo rates to rise six to eight basis points through June,
according to  Joseph Abate , money-market strategist in New York
at Barclays, one of the 20 primary dealers that trade government
debt with the central bank. The Fed purchases as slated to be
completed in June.  General Collateral  The fall in bill supply, as the Treasury stopped sales of
bills on behalf of the Fed, also cut the amount of Treasuries
available in the repurchase agreement markets, pushing Treasury
repo rates lower as investors grew more willing to take lower
 interest rates  on loans to get needed securities.  The average overnight general collateral repo rate was 0.1
percent as of 10 a.m. New York time yesterday, when most trading
takes place, according to ICAP Plc, the world’s largest inter-
dealer broker. The rate fell to as low as 0.001 percent on July
6, matching the lowest since the January 2010. The rate was as
high as 0.22 percent on Jan. 3.  Securities dealers use repos to finance holdings and
increase leverage. Securities that can be borrowed at interest
rates close to the Fed’s target rate, which now is in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent, are called general collateral. Those in
highest demand have lower rates and are called “special.”  Effective Rate  The volume-weighted average for trades of overnight federal
funds, known as the fed effective rate, averaged 0.09 percent
over the last month. That’s within the Fed’s target rate for
overnight loans between banks of zero to 0.25 percent since
December 2008. The Fed pays banks a 0.25 percent rate on excess
reserves they hold at the central bank.  U.S. money funds reduced lending to European banks further
last month, with the biggest U.S. funds cutting their holdings
to the lowest in at least five years, as the region’s sovereign
debt crisis worsened. The 10 biggest U.S. funds eligible to
purchase corporate debt, with a combined $676 billion in assets,
reduced European bank assets to 42 percent of holdings, the
lowest level since at least 2006,  Fitch Ratings  said in a Sept.
23 report.  “The Fed’s sales of shorter-maturity coupons will make
some supply available to Treasury-only money market funds, which
are a massive buyer of bills and investor in Treasury repo,”
 Michael Cloherty , head of U.S. interest-rate strategy in New
York at Royal Bank of Canada’s  RBC Capital Markets , said in an
telephone interview. “When the Fed sells a short-term security,
it means that when it matures the Fed won’t have any paper to
roll over at the Treasury auctions,” which will cause the
Treasury to receive less money at its auctions than it otherwise
would.  The Treasury will need to raise auction sizes to offset
that drop in cash, added Cloherty, who said that given the bills
are at a historic low percentage of the Treasury’s total debt,
they are most likely to get a greater share of any increase in
issuance.  Treasury bills as a percentage of the government’s total
debt portfolio have fallen to 16 percent as of June 30, down
from as high as about 35 percent in the fourth quarter of 2008,
and an average of 24 percent from 2000 through 2007, according
to Treasury Department data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  