-- 
Hong Kong Stocks Head for Biggest Monthly Drop in Three Years

-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 
2011-09-28T08:48:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/hong-kong-stocks-head-for-biggest-monthly-drop-in-three-years.html
Hong Kong  stocks dropped, dragging
the Hang Seng Index toward its biggest monthly decline in almost
three years, amid lingering concerns over the global economy and
Europe’s debt crisis.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd., the nation’s
biggest lender by market value, sank 3.8 percent today after
rallying as much as 9.9 percent yesterday.  Hutchison Whampoa
Ltd. (13)  declined after its mobile phone unit said an auction for
signal spectrum in the U.K. faces delay. Active Group Holdings
Ltd., a maker of men’s shoes, fell as much as 6.7 percent in its
Hong Kong listing debut today before closing 0.8 percent lower.
Suncorp Technologies Ltd. rallied 9.8 percent after scrapping a
share sale.  “Stocks had a very strong rebound yesterday, but it seems
that investors remain cautious about the European debt crisis,”
said  Ben Kwong , chief operating officer at KGI Asia Ltd.
“Investors here are not fully convinced that the crisis is
over, and that they believe the market could test another bottom
because of prevailing concerns of the global economic slowdown
and the debt crisis of developed economies.”  The Hang Seng Index lost 0.7 percent to 18,011.06 as of the
close in Hong Kong, dragging the measure toward a 12 percent
decline this month, its biggest monthly drop since Oct. 2008.
The measure is on course for a 20 percent loss this quarter, its
steepest decline since the period ended Dec. 2008. The index
yesterday rose 4.2 percent for its largest gain since May 2009.  Close to Agreement  The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index of Chinese companies
listed in Hong Kong slid 0.2 percent to 9,277.49.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.2
percent today after swinging between gains and losses more than
10 times. In  New York , the index climbed 1.1 percent yesterday
on optimism European leaders are close to an agreement to
contain the region’s debt crisis. The  S&P 500  has risen 4.1
percent in the past three trading sessions.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said  Greece  is ready to
fulfill the conditions laid down by a so-called troika assessing
Greek progress at meeting the terms of its international rescue.
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won parliamentary backing
for a property tax to meet deficit-reduction targets required to
avoid default.  Stocks trimmed their advance in the U.S. yesterday
following a Financial Times report that some euro-area countries
are demanding private creditors take bigger writedowns on their
Greek bond holdings.  Absorb Bigger Losses  As many as seven of the 17 nations using the euro believe
private creditors should absorb bigger losses on their Greek
bond holdings, a division that may threaten an agreement reached
with private investors in July, the Financial Times reported,
citing unidentified senior European officials.  Industrial & Commercial Bank slid 3.8 percent to HK$4.04
after rallying yesterday by the most in 2 1/2 years. The stock
was the biggest drag on the  Hang Seng Index. (HSI)   Bank of China Ltd. (3988) ,
which jumped 6 percent yesterday, fell 3 percent to HK$2.57.  The cost of protecting China’s sovereign debt from default
jumped to the highest level since March 2009, according to data
provider CMA. Credit-default swap contracts on China surged 16
basis to 170, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in privately negotiated
markets.  Three of the four industry groups on the Hang Seng Index
declined, with about three shares falling for every two that
gained. The Hang Seng Index has tumbled 22 percent this year on
concern the global economy will enter a recession amid  Europe ’s
debt crisis and slowing economic growth in the U.S. Shares on
the index traded at 9.7 times forecast earnings, compared with
11.8 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Hutchison, Active Group  Hutchison Whampoa fell 3 percent to HK$60.10. The company’s
Three unit’s consultation for a planned U.K. mobile-telephony
spectrum auction faces further delay, and proposed plans for the
auction may not be published until the end of this year or the
beginning of 2012, David Dyson, the CEO of the U.K. unit, said
at a briefing in  London .  Active Group Holdings, which receives most of its revenue
from China, dropped 0.8 percent to HK$1.19 today in its debut.
The company said it expects net proceeds of HK$337.4 million
from its initial public offering after setting the price of the
shares at HK$1.20 each. That was the bottom end of the company’s
previously announced range.  Among stocks that rose, Suncorp Technologies, which
designs, makes and sells telephones, surged 9.8 percent to 22.5
Hong Kong cents. The company said it is scrapping a planned sale
of stock to existing shareholders that aimed to raise HK$235.1
million ($30 million) because of market conditions.  Offshore Natural Gas  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s biggest offshore oil producer by market
value, rose 3.9 percent to HK$13.30 amid speculation the company
may double its estimate for reserves at what may be China’s
largest offshore natural gas deposit. Cnooc and  Husky Energy
Inc. (HSE) , a Canadian  oil company  controlled by billionaire Li Ka-
Shing, are exploring for gas in the  South China Sea .  Futures on the Hang Seng Index fell 0.6 percent to 17,956.
The HSI Volatility Index rose 2.3 percent to 40.68, indicating
options traders expect a swing of 11.7 percent in the Hang Seng
Index in the next 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  