-- 
China’s Hong Kong Succession Takes Shape as Tang Steps Down

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-09-28T06:30:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/hong-kong-chief-secretary-henry-tang-said-to-resign-announcement-planned.html
Hong Kong  Chief Secretary Henry Tang resigned to consider running for the city’s top government
job in a long-awaited  succession plan  that may be muddied by
public anger at a widening wealth gap.  Tang, 59, is expected to run in elections when Chief
Executive Donald Tsang’s five-year term ends next June. He faces
competition from Leung Chun-ying, who yesterday said he will
stand down from Tsang’s advisory body to compete in polls that
are skewed in favor of candidates backed by China.  Preparations to replace Tsang take place against the
backdrop of an economy contracting at the same time as surging
prices of have stoked anger at a government seen as favoring
business. While Tang’s path from finance secretary to chief
secretary followed Tsang’s and fueled speculation he was being
groomed to take over,  China  has raised concerns over social
tension in the city.  “China can wait for a bit to make the final decision, as
both Tang and Leung are acceptable,” said Willy Lam, an adjunct
professor of history at  Chinese University of Hong Kong . “Hong
Kong people see Tang as a representative of the business
community, which may disadvantage him. On the other hand, civil
servants clearly would favor Tang over Leung, and Beijing will
no doubt take that into consideration.”  China’s Unease  In a sign of unease at Hong Kong’s leadership, Chinese
Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in March that Tsang and Tang’s
administration should resolve “deep-rooted conflicts” as
social unrest is growing. Tens of thousands of demonstrators
marched to protest surging  home prices  and inequality on July 1,
the 14th anniversary of Hong Kong’s return to Chinese rule.  Hong Kong was handed back in 1997 under an agreement with
the U.K. that included guarantees of civil liberties, an
independent judiciary and autonomy laid out in the city’s
constitution, or basic law. That status helped cement its role
as  Asia ’s biggest international financial center, with a $2
trillion stock market that hosts China’s biggest companies by
market value, including  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398) 
Ltd. and PetroChina Co.  The success also created the widest rich-poor gap in Asia,
according to a report by the  United Nations  in 2008. Inflation,
excluding distortions from government subsidies, accelerated to
6.3 percent in August, the highest since the global financial
crisis. The city can’t set  interest rates  to damp demand because
its currency is pegged to the  U.S. dollar .  Shrinking Economy  Rising consumer prices coincide with a slowdown in export
growth that caused the economy to contract 0.5 percent in the
three month ended June 30 from the previous quarter. Gross
domestic product will shrink again this quarter, according to
economists at Morgan Stanley and Daiwa Capital Markets.  Tang said he was stepping down to consider "how to improve
our livelihood, and ensure that all sectors, particularly the
underprivileged, would be able to truly share the fruits of our
economic success." In a televised resignation speech he called
the prospect of running for office "a great challenge for me."  The 1,200-member committee to be formed in December that
will decide the next chief executive is elected from several
sectors that represent “narrow business interests” and won’t
confront Beijing, said  Joseph Cheng , a political science
professor at City University in Hong Kong. Some of the biggest
groupings in the committee include delegates to the National
People’s Congress, China’s parliament, and the Communist Party’s
own advisory committee.  ‘Cultivated’  China hasn’t always got its way with Hong Kong’s 7 million
people. Tsang’s predecessor, Tung Chee-hwa, stepped down early
in 2005 citing ill health after unpopular decisions fueled
demonstrations that included a march of 500,000 to protest a
China-backed anti-subversion law.  “In a climate where people are suspicious of collusion
between the government and business, if Tang becomes chief
executive there may be a backlash,” Lew Mon Hung, a Hong Kong
member of the National Committee of the Chinese People’s
Political Consultative Conference, told reporters in Beijing
today in comments broadcast by Cable Television. “C.Y. Leung,
who comes from a poor family, can avoid such doubts,” he said,
adding that he would back Tang’s rival.  Leung, 57, is Asia Pacific chairman at  DTZ Holdings Plc (DTZ) , a
real estate advisory company. He will leave his job “within
days” on the Executive Council, the top advisory body to the
city government, Leung told reporters yesterday.  Home Base  Leung has been vocal about housing policy, urging the
government to resume a program to build subsidized homes that
was halted in 2002. Home prices surged more than 70 percent
since 2009 on low  mortgage rates  and an influx of mainland
Chinese buyers, according to an index by Centaline Property
Agency, the city’s biggest closely held real estate broker.  Tang’s best-known policy success was to abolish duties on
wine in 2008, helping the city overtake  London  and  New York  as
the world’s biggest wine auction market. Imports of the beverage
surged to $858 million last year, from $185 million in 2007.  The son of a manufacturer, Tang has faced criticism over
his response to public protests, including security measures
during a speech by Chinese Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  at Hong Kong
University last month. Tang described criticism that police
violated demonstrators’ civil rights as “completely rubbish.”  Tang in May said young people shouldn’t blame the rich for
dominating Hong Kong and should instead focus on how to become
the “next  Li Ka-shing ,” the  South China Morning Post  reported.
Li is known as “Superman” in Hong Kong, after parlaying a
business making plastic flowers into a multibillion-dollar
ports, telecoms and property empire.  Tang’s support fell to 46.6 out of 100 in the latest survey
ended this month, from 65.4 when he succeeded Tsang as chief
secretary in July 2007, according to the University of Hong
Kong’s Public Opinion Programme.  “Chinese officials have cultivated Henry Tang and he has
been groomed for the chief executive position for 10 years,”
 City University ’s Cheng said. “Because he appears so weak,
that’s why C.Y. Leung believes that he has a chance to win.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  