-- 
Ooma Cuts Cord as Free Phone Calls Go Wi-Fi: Rich Jaroslovsky

-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 
2011-09-28T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/ooma-cuts-cord-as-free-phone-calls-go-wireless-tech-by-rich-jaroslovsky.html
There’s always been one drawback to
Ooma Inc.’s Telo “Free Home Phone Service” box: the need to
hook it directly via Ethernet cable to your Internet router.  If the router was in a central location, no problem. But in
your garage, basement or closet, connecting to it could be a
real pain.  Now  Ooma  has upgraded the Telo with an adapter called the
Telo Air, letting it connect over a Wi-Fi network and finally
making it convenient as well as cost-effective.  The Telo is a flat black box that looks vaguely like an
answering machine. Under the hood, though, it’s actually a
Linux-based special-purpose computer, the chief special purpose
being to get rid of Verizon Communications, Comcast or whatever
other landline or cable company might be providing you with
phone service -- along with its attendant bill.  Instead, you buy the box -- it’s $250 with the Wi-Fi
option, $200 without -- and get, along with your phone service,
basic features including voicemail, caller ID and call waiting.
After the initial outlay, all you pay are taxes, generally $3 to
$4 a month.  An optional $9.99 monthly premium tier adds a bunch of
additional functions, including call screening, a second line
for making or taking calls even when the Ooma service is already
in use, and three-way conference calling.  The company also offers low-cost international dialing
plans and a $30 Bluetooth adapter (formerly reserved only for
premium customers, now available to everyone) that lets you use
your wireless phone and headset with your Ooma system.  Fee for Service  Like its competitors from  Vonage Holdings Corp. (VG)  and
magicJack VocalTec Ltd., Ooma uses Voice over Internet Protocol
(VoIP) which runs your calls over the Internet rather than
dedicated phone lines or cellular signals. (So if your Internet
service goes down, so does your phone.) Ooma differs from the
other two in that you pay up front for the box but not for
service. Vonage doesn’t charge, and magicJack charges much less
than Ooma, for their less powerful adapters. Both, however,
charge for service.  If your router is easily accessible and you don’t need the
Wi-Fi feature, setting up the Telo is fast and frictionless.  To start, you go to Ooma’s website to register the device,
choose an area code and phone number, and enter information on
your physical location, which is essential for handling 911
emergency calls. (You can also port your current number to Ooma,
though that process can add expense and hassle.)  Then you use the included Ethernet cable to attach the Telo
to an empty port on your router, plug it into the wall, and plug
a standard wired telephone or cordless-phone base station into
the unit.  Fast Set-Up  It took me exactly 12 minutes from the time I opened the
Telo box until I made my first call, and part of that time was
spent looking through the old-cable drawer to find an RJ-11
phone cord.  The Wi-Fi option adds some mercifully one-time-only
complexity to the process. The adapter, which Ooma is selling
separately for $50, plugs into a USB port on the back of the
Telo. You then have to connect the Telo to an Ethernet port on a
computer (an annoyance if the computer happens to be using its
Ethernet port to, you know, connect to the Internet).  Once the computer and Telo are connected, Ooma walks you
through putting it onto your wireless network. At that point,
you can disconnect it from the computer and move it anywhere you
wish.  Sound Quality  In the early days of VoIP, sound quality could be pretty
bad. More recently,  Internet service  providers like Comcast
embraced it to break into the phone business. Now, assuming you
have a halfway decent broadband connection, it’s mostly
indistinguishable from traditional wired phone service.  I connected the Telo to a multi-line telephone in my home
whose other ports were taken up by traditional POTS (that’s
“plain old telephone service”) landlines from  AT&T Inc. (T)  Except
for one conversation in which my voice occasionally skipped a
syllable, no one I called or who called me could detect the
difference. Neither could I, except for the different dial tone
on the Telo-connected line.  Internet connections are sometimes subject to blackouts of
unknown origin, so you might think twice about the Telo as your
sole service. But as a second line, or with a wireless phone as
backup, it beats writing checks to the phone company.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 