-- 
Ophelia Becomes Tropical Storm, May Reach Hurricane Strength

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-09-28T21:04:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/ophelia-becomes-tropical-storm-may-grow-to-hurricane-this-week.html
Ophelia regained tropical storm
status and is forecast to reach hurricane strength on a track
that may take it east of  Bermuda  this weekend, according to the
U.S. National Hurricane Center.  Ophelia’s winds are 50 miles (80 kilometers) per hour, up
from 35 mph earlier today, according to an  advisory  at 5 p.m.
New York time. The system is about 180 miles east-northeast of
the northern Leeward Islands, moving north-northwest at 7 mph.  “Gradual strengthening is expected during the next couple
of days,” the center said.  The storm’s top winds are forecast to reach 75 mph in three
days, which would make it a Category 1 hurricane on the five-
step Saffir-Simpson scale, according to the center. Ophelia
became a tropical storm in the Atlantic Sept. 20 and weakened to
a remnant low over the weekend before regaining strength.  In addition to Ophelia, forecasters are monitoring Tropical
Storm Philippe, which is about 1,040 miles west of  Cape Verde 
with 40-mph winds. Once its winds drop below 39 mph, it will
become a tropical depression.  In the Pacific, Hurricane Hilary may drop to tropical storm
status overnight and dissipate by the end of the week, the
center said. The storm is 640 miles west-southwest of  Baja
California  with winds of 80 mph and is moving at 8 mph.  “Surf, swells generated by Hilary are affecting portions
of the coast of southern Baja California,” the hurricane center
said. “These swells are likely causing life-threatening surf
and rip current conditions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 