-- 
Oracle Posts PowerPoint Slides to Counter Autonomy CEO’s Claims

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   V i v e k   S h a n k a r
-- 
2011-09-29T16:42:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/oracle-says-autonomy-s-lynch-met-with-hurd-pitched-sale.html
The dispute over  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s
claim that it was offered Autonomy Corp. before the company’s
acquisition by  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  could have gone down as a he-
said/he-said account, except for those PowerPoint slides.  Oracle  posted  a 14-page presentation by  Frank Quattrone ’s
Qatalyst Partners LLC to prove it was offered a chance to buy
Autonomy before Hewlett-Packard made its deal. Autonomy Chief
Executive Officer  Michael Lynch  has denied that his Cambridge,
England-based company was shopped to Oracle.  “Either Mr. Lynch has a very poor memory or he’s lying,”
 Redwood City , California-based Oracle said yesterday in a
statement that concluded, “The Lynch shopping visit to Oracle
is easy to verify. We still have his PowerPoint slides.”  The back-and-forth reflects the growing tension between
Oracle and Hewlett-Packard, onetime allies that now compete in
computer servers. The feud intensified in 2010 when Hewlett-
Packard ousted CEO Mark Hurd, a friend of Oracle CEO  Larry Ellison . A month later, Hurd joined Oracle as president.  Autonomy became a source of contention after Aug. 18, when
Hewlett-Packard said it was buying the software maker for $10.3
billion, at a 64 percent premium. Investors’ concern that
Hewlett-Packard overpaid contributed to the board’s decision
last week to replace CEO  Leo Apotheker  with  Meg Whitman , people
familiar with the matter have said.  ‘Absurdly High’  Ellison emphasized the price on a Sept. 20 conference call
with analysts, saying Autonomy had solicited interest from
Oracle before the Hewlett-Packard deal.  “Autonomy was shopped to us,” he said. “We looked at the
price and thought it was absurdly high.”  Lynch on Sept. 23 denied that he’d offered the company to
Oracle, saying he preferred Hewlett-Packard because the company
“doesn’t have a legacy position it has to protect.”  In a Wall Street Journal article published this week, Lynch
called Ellison’s remarks “inaccurate.”  Oracle responded yesterday, saying Lynch met with Oracle,
alongside investment banker Quattrone.  In a January e-mail sent from Quattrone to Hurd, obtained
by Bloomberg News, the banker touted the value of Autonomy.  “It’s a very strategic asset that could alter the balance
of power in the industry for whoever might acquire it,” he
said. Quattrone didn’t respond to a request for comment.  About two months later, at a meeting attended by Hurd and
Senior Vice President Douglas Kehring, Lynch and Quattrone made
their pitch, Oracle said. The men were told that with a current
market value of $6 billion, Autonomy was already “extremely
overpriced,” Oracle said.  Lynch responded to that depiction of the  meeting  by saying
it was held because Oracle is an Autonomy customer.  “In April there was a 30-40 minute meeting between
Autonomy and  Mark Hurd , which was set up by Frank Quattrone as
an introduction to Mark Hurd,” Lynch said in an e-mailed
statement. “In the meeting, in response to a joke about Mr.
Quattrone’s presence, it was made clear Autonomy was not for
sale and there was no process under way. Mr. Quattrone’s company
was not engaged by Autonomy at that time. There has been no
other contact with Oracle since then.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Vivek Shankar in San Francisco at 
 vshankar3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  