-- 
U.S. Durable Goods Orders Likely Fell in August

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-09-28T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/orders-for-durable-goods-in-u-s-probably-decreased-in-august.html
Orders for U.S. durable goods
probably fell in August as a plunge in stock prices and growing
concern over the European crisis raised concern the economy will
slow, economists said before a report today.  Bookings for goods meant to last at least three years fell
0.2 percent after a 4.1 percent gain the prior month, according
to the median forecast of 77 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. Orders excluding the volatile transportation category also
fell 0.2 percent, according to the survey.  Manufacturers are facing a slowdown in  consumer spending ,
which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy, leaving
companies like  General Electric Co. (GE)  depending on sales to  China ,
 India  and other emerging markets. Less growth in the U.S. also
raises the threat that companies will cut  capital spending , one
of the few remaining bright spots in the recovery.  “There is more caution out there for the manufacturing
sector,” said  Jonathan Basile , an economist at Credit Suisse in
 New York . “That translates into softness as financial risk
increased.”  Estimates for overall orders ranged from a 3.4 percent drop
to a 2.7 percent increase. Forecasts for bookings excluding the
volatile transportation category ranged from a decline of 2.3
percent to an increase of 0.8 percent. The Commerce Department’s
report is due at 8:30 a.m. in Washington.  Recent data showed manufacturing kept slumping in
September. New York-region factories shrank for a fourth
straight month and manufacturing in the Philadelphia area
contracted for a third time in four months, according to reports
from the  Federal Reserve . The  Institute for Supply Management ’s
factory production and orders indexes for August both showed
contraction.  Growth Leaders  Any further weakening in manufacturing would be more of a
concern as much of the growth in the second quarter came from
corporate investment and trade as consumer spending stagnated.  Shares of  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , operator of the world’s biggest
cargo airline, fell to a two-year low last week after cutting
its full-year profit forecast amid declining demand in the U.S.
and  Asia .  “From talking to our customers, -- the retailers, the
manufacturers and so forth -- the primary driver of the reduced
demand is the lower sales of electronic products,” Chief
Executive Officer  Fred Smith  said on a conference call. “We
expect sluggish economic growth will continue.”  Overseas sales remain a source of strength for
manufacturers like General Electric.  ‘Robust Demand’  “At a time of, I would say, global volatility, we still
see robust demand for our infrastructure products,”  Jeffrey
Immelt , chairman and chief executive officer of GE, said Sept.
26 in Pune, India. “We still feel quite good about our
prospects on a global basis.”  The Federal Reserve’s policy-setting committee on Sept. 21
said economic growth “remains slow” even as “business
investment in equipment and software continues to expand.”  “There are significant downside risks to the economic
outlook, including strains in global financial markets,” it
said.  Stocks of machinery makers have fallen more than the
broader market in the last two months. The Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Machinery Index has dropped 23 percent since July
22, when European default and U.S. debt-ceiling concerns began
heating up, while the  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  decreased 13 percent.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  