-- 
U.S. Death Toll From Contaminated Cantaloupe May Rise From 13, CDC Says

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-09-28T20:44:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/more-illnesses-expected-from-tainted-melon-cdc-director-says.html
The U.S. listeria outbreak linked
to tainted cantaloupes may continue to sicken people through
October, and the number of deaths may rise, the  Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention  said.  The outbreak is the deadliest caused by contaminated food
in more than 10 years, CDC Director  Thomas Frieden  said today on
a conference call. More illnesses are likely to occur because it
can take more than two months for people to become sick after
eating the tainted fruit, Barbara Mahon, deputy chief of the
CDC’s Enteric Disease branch, said on the call.  Laboratory tests so far have linked 72 illnesses and at
least 13 deaths to cantaloupes grown by Jensen Farms in Granada,
 Colorado , Mahon said. Jensen recalled the Rocky Ford-brand
cantaloupes on Sept. 14, and the  Food and Drug Administration 
warned consumers not to eat them. The agency is working with
Colorado health officials to learn how the contamination
occurred, said FDA Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg .  “This outbreak has been a tough one for all involved,”
Hamburg said on the conference call. “This is the first
outbreak we’ve seen with listeria” linked to cantaloupe, “and
that is a surprise.”  Of 10 previous outbreaks linked to tainted cantaloupe in
the past decade, seven were caused by salmonella and three were
from norovirus, Frieden said.  ‘Unusual Bacteria’  “Listeria is an unusual bacteria,” Frieden said on the
conference call. “The incubation period is one to three weeks
on average, and can be two months or more, so there is a
continued risk. If you have cantaloupe in your refrigerator that
you are in doubt about the source of, it’s best to throw it
out.”  Listeria, a bacterium often found in soil and water,
sickens about 1,600 people and kills about 260 in the U.S. each
year, according to the CDC website.  Animals  can carry the germ
without appearing ill. Pregnant women, the elderly and people
with weakened immune systems are among those at greatest risk
for listeria infections. Symptoms include fever and diarrhea.  In 1998, 21 people died from listeria linked to tainted hot
dogs, according to a CDC online database.  “We haven’t seen a lot of very large listeria outbreaks”
in recent years, Mahon said. “To a large extent, that’s due to
improvements to the safety of hot dogs and deli meats.”  The FDA and state officials are investigating whether
animals or water may have transmitted the bacteria to the
melons, and whether the contamination occurred during the
growing, harvesting, packing or rinsing processes, Sherri
McGarry, senior adviser in the FDA’s Office of Foods, said on
the conference call.  “We are working vigilantly to ensure that the product is
being removed from the market,” McGarry said. The tainted
cantaloupes, shipped from July 29 to Sept. 10 in at least 17
states, are “nearing the end of their shelf life,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  