-- 
Morning Scene: Schwarzman, Rubenstein, Byron Wien, Bill Ackman

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-09-28T15:29:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/morning-scene-steve-schwarzman-david-rubenstein-byron-wien-bill-ackman.html
Blackstone Group’s Steve Schwarzman
said he skipped his morning workout today to participate in a
discussion on the economy at Lincoln Center.  But a workout is what the U.S. needs, he suggested.  “We’re like a first-class athlete who stopped training and
stopped playing and ate a lot,” Schwarzman said. “They don’t
put you back in the game when you look like that.”  Schwarzman spoke at the  David Rubenstein  Atrium, joined by
Rubenstein, managing director of The  Carlyle Group , and NBC’s
Tom Brokaw, who moderated. The event was the first in what
Lincoln Center is billing as a “spoken word breakfast series.”  One of Schwarzman’s suggestions for getting the country in
shape: “a sensible” immigration policy.  “Why in the world would we educate people from abroad and
ask them to leave?” Schwarzman said. “We have a lot of self-
destructive things that we can correct.”  Another Schwarzman suggestion: overhaul taxes. “Two
brackets, and you get rid of deductions,” he said. “It becomes
so simple you can sell it politically. I usually like to try to
do easy deals, because they’re hard enough.”  Regarding the dismal state of the housing market,
Schwarzman proposed “changing the rules to refinance to where
mortgages should be,” he said.  “If you bite a bullet on that, and it’s not the biggest
amount of money in the world, that’s the way you build a base to
start building this economy again.”  Citing the success of Apple, Schwarzman said that growth in
the  U.S. economy  will come from new ideas.  “We’re basically a  knowledge economy  and we’re very
creative in terms of solving problems of all types,” Schwarzman
said. “We can keep inventing things. That’s our future if we
choose to seize it.”  ‘We’re Not Creating Wealth’  Finally, on the topic of philanthropy, Schwarzman sounded a
dire warning.  “Right now there’s still enough people of wealth who are
still funding these organizations,” Schwarzman said. “This is
a temporary situation. In a society where we’re not creating
wealth -- where we’re eating our own seed corn -- we’re in
trouble. The next generation will not have the money to support
these organizations in the style we’ve all become accustomed
to.”  Rubenstein, who led  Lincoln Center ’s recent capital
campaign, described some of his talking points when he asks
people to give money.  “No. 1, when you give money, you feel better about
yourself and you will live longer,” he said.  His second point is that “not every gift is going to be
perfect, but you never know, it just might work.”  Third, he said, “we don’t know if there’s a heaven, but
why take a chance?”  Power Breakfast  The event began with a 30-minute power breakfast (Greek
yogurt, homemade granola and bagels), which Schwarzman and
Rubenstein skipped to have their makeup done (the discussion was
taped for broadcast on WNET.)  About 80 guests attended, including Blackstone’s  Byron Wien ,  Centerview Partners ’ Blair Effron and Pershing Square
Capital Management’s  Bill Ackman .  “Any chance you can get to hear these guys talk is
great,” said Michael Hinckley, an associate at General
Atlantic, who’d set his alarm for 4:45 a.m. to get to the gym,
but wound up sleeping later.  Two other breakfasts are scheduled in the series: Blair
Effron and  Greg Fleming  of Morgan Stanley will speak Oct. 12;
 Peter Orszag  of Citigroup and Ruth Porat of Morgan Stanley will
speak Nov. 16.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at 
 agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  