-- 
Mortgage Survivors Get Deals as Price Drops Ease

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 
2011-09-28T14:01:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/mortgage-survivors-get-bargain-homes-as-bernanke-erases-price-drop-danger.html
Cynthia and Gerald Matthews left a
booming  property market  in Ottawa, the Canadian capital, to buy
a home in Bloomington, Indiana, where real estate prices are
beginning to recover from a five-year slump.  “It was much cheaper than we thought it would be,” said
Cynthia Matthews, who got a 5 percent discount off the $196,999
asking price of the three-bedroom, brick neo-Colonial style
house, and a mortgage rate close to 4 percent. “To say it’s a
buyer’s market would be an understatement.”  People like the Matthewses who are able to survive the
scrutiny of mortgage lenders are getting the best deals of the
five-year U.S. housing bust, and perhaps the best deals of a
generation, after a 31 percent decline in  home prices  since
2006. It’s the bright side of an otherwise bleak real estate
market: Good houses at cheap prices are plentiful, while loan
rates are hovering at record lows.  “It’s hard to see the possibility of losing on a home
purchase right now, with these mortgage rates,” said  Dean Baker , an economist who in 2005 predicted a decline in the
government’s home-price index that now is within two percentage
points of his forecast. “Prices may go lower, but not by much.
Even if they do, you’re still getting a good deal.”  The lowest mortgage rates on record, coupled with a new
Federal Reserve program to reduce them further, are turning
housing bears like Baker into optimists. Loan payments on a home
financed at last week’s 4.09 percent average 30-year U.S. rate
would be lower than the bill for a property purchased next year
after a 3.5 percent price decline and a half-percentage-point
rate increase, a scenario forecast by the  Mortgage Bankers
Association  for mid-2012.  $18,000 Difference  Buying a $300,000 home at current rates means a monthly
mortgage bill of about $1,158, assuming a 20 percent down
payment. Delaying a purchase until next year would put the tab
higher, at $1,186, based on the MBA forecast for prices and
rates. That amounts to an $18,000 difference over a 30-year
mortgage for those who wait.  Regardless of the rate, most Americans seeking to buy a
house need to qualify for a loan. Mortgage applications for home
purchases rose 2.6 percent last week, the fifth consecutive
gain, the MBA reported today.  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , which
securitize about two-thirds of new U.S. mortgages, have enacted
the strictest qualification standards in more than a decade as
they try to improve the credit quality of their portfolios.  Lender Scrutiny  That makes the mortgage process a grueling experience for
borrowers like Christine Trendell. She bought a house two months
ago in Canton, Massachusetts, a suburb of  Boston , where real
estate prices fell 25 percent through early this year before
gaining 10 percent in the recent quarter, according to the
National Association of Realtors.  The wood-shingled house, built in 1920, has an old-
fashioned screened-in front porch furnished with rocking chairs.
The entrance hall is dominated by a wide oak staircase, and the
hardwood floors, newly refinished, gleam in the sun.  Trendell and her husband, Ben, had to submit a pile of bank
statements, retirement-fund tallies, and years of tax returns
that stacked to almost two inches high, she said. The lender
required them to fax their paystubs repeatedly near the end, she
said, to make sure they hadn’t lost their jobs before the
closing date. They were able to get the mortgage because they
have pristine credit records, she said.  Didn’t Know  “The low rates made it affordable to buy the house, but we
didn’t know if we were going to be able to get a loan,” said
Trendell, standing in her driveway earlier this week after
walking two of her three children to a nearby elementary school.
“Rates don’t matter if you can’t get a mortgage,” she said as
her youngest child, a 3-year-old daughter, wheeled a doll-size
baby carriage in circles around her.  Buyers are still cautious about taking advantage of deals.
Sales of previously owned homes were down 31 percent in August
from their 2005 peak, the National Association of Realtors
reported last week. Neither Baker, co-director of the Center for
Economic & Policy Research, nor  Karl Case , co-founder of the
Case-Shiller home price index, expect property bargains to be a
cure-all for the worst housing collapse on record.  “Houses are cheap right now, but a lot of people are too
scared to buy, no matter what kind of deal they get,” Case said
from his home in Wellesley,  Massachusetts . “We’re bumping along
the bottom with prices, but I don’t think we’re at a bottom in
terms of confidence.”  The Case-Shiller index of prices in 20 U.S. cities fell 4.1
percent in July from a year earlier, the group reported
yesterday. Values were little changed from the previous month
after adjusting for seasonal variations.  Operation Twist  Buyers passing up bargains are confounding attempts by Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to boost the broader economy and
stimulate housing demand. Policy makers said last week they will
commence a third bond-buying program aimed at lowering home-loan
rates. This effort, known as Operation Twist, will replace some
shorter-term securities in the central bank’s $1.6 trillion
portfolio with longer-term Treasuries.  The goal is to twist the so-called yield curve so longer-
term bonds such as 10-year Treasuries, used as a benchmark by
investors in mortgage-backed securities, have lower  interest
rates . The Fed used the same maturity-exchange program during
the early 1960s in a joint operation with the Treasury
Department shortly after John F. Kennedy became president.  Rate Spread  No matter how much policy makers try to manipulate bond
yields, investors in mortgage-backed securities may not
cooperate, keeping home-loan rates higher than they should be,
according to  Diane Swonk , chief economist at Mesirow Financial
Inc. in  Chicago .  “Rates have not come down in lockstep with Treasuries,”
Swonk said. “We’re not getting all of the pass-through.”  The difference, or spread, between the average 30-year
fixed mortgage rate and the benchmark 10-year Treasury yield
widened to 2.26 percentage points last week, the biggest gap
since 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. If the
spread matched the gap of 1.17 percentage points in February,
the 2011 low, home-loan rates now would be close to 3 percent.  Mortgage-bond investors may be demanding higher risk
compensation as the economy slows, Swonk said. Or, they may be
hedging their exposure to so-called prepayments on speculation
the government might embark on a new mortgage refinance program.  Moving Near Son  The Matthewses didn’t wait to see if rates would go lower.
They moved to Bloomington to be near  Indiana  University, where
their teenage son will attend a pre-college program at the
Jacobs School of Music. The couple paid $187,500 for their home
in August, according to real estate records.  The median house price in Bloomington fell to $149,000 at
the beginning of this year, 13 percent below a 2005 high, before
gaining 4.8 percent in the second quarter, according to the
Realtors group.  The Matthewses looked at dozens of properties before
settling on their 12-year-old house with hardwood floors, a
fireplace in the living room, and a room over the garage they’ve
turned into a den. Their front door, painted red, is framed with
white columns, giving the two-story home an elegant look.  Yacov Sinai, in  Santa Monica ,  California , didn’t want to
wait, either. He got a four-bedroom one-story house in the tony
Regent Square neighborhood for $1.87 million last month. Prices
in the oceanfront city 20 miles west of  Los Angeles  may fall
another 4 percent to 8 percent, he estimated. Waiting, though,
would mean he would have to deal with competition, Sinai said.  “Next year, when you make an offer on a property, there’ll
be another 10 people behind you waiting to get in the door,”
said Sinai. His new house has four bedrooms, a double garage,
and a half-circle driveway.  Writing an Essay  About five years ago, before prices in the Los Angeles
metropolitan area tumbled 38 percent, as measured by a Case-
Shiller index, Sinai made an offer on a different property in
Santa Monica that had several competing bids. The seller
required an essay from all potential buyers saying why they
should be allowed to purchase it, he said.  “It was ludicrous,” said Sinai, who lost the writing
contest, and the house. In his recent purchase, he negotiated a
12 percent discount off the listing price -- a $267,000 savings
-- and he was the only one bidding.  Sinai said he isn’t worried about the economy, but a lot of
potential buyers are. In the first three months of the year,
gross domestic product grew at the slowest pace since the end of
the recession in mid-2009. The slowdown sapped  consumer
confidence  that already was waning.  Doom and Gloom  “You’ve really got to turn off the doom and gloom to buy a
house right now, or you’re going to worry about a recession, or
about your job,” said Todd Garrett, a nurse who has a home
under contract in Omaha,  Nebraska , that he plans to buy next
month. “I just made sure the house had good bones.”  He’s paying $104,900 for the ranch-style house, in a
neighborhood where similar properties have sold for as much as
$120,000, Garrett said. His price is close to the $102,000 the
three-bedroom house went for nine years ago, according to real
estate records.  The Conference Board’s Consumer Confidence Index during the
last two months has been the lowest since early 2009. The share
of people in September who said jobs are hard to find rose to
the highest level since 1983, and the gauge of current business
conditions fell for the fifth straight month, according to the
New York-based research firm’s report yesterday.  Little to Gain  “Even if there is another recession, people who can
qualify for a mortgage won’t gain anything by playing the
waiting game,” said  Nariman Behravesh , chief economist at
Englewood, Colorado-based IHS Inc., who predicts another 5
percent national decline before prices hit bottom next year.
“They may get lucky with the price, but they probably won’t be
getting these low mortgage rates.”  While the economy is the largest drag on the housing
market, the freeze in mortgage credit has been second, Behravesh
said. However, there are some signs of a thaw, he said. The
share of banks reporting tightened standards for prime mortgages
in the third quarter dropped 1.9 percent, the first decline in a
year, according to the Fed’s Senior Loan Officer Survey.  People who find the right deal and pass muster with lenders
shouldn’t try to time the bottom of the market, said Baker, the
formerly pessimistic economist.  “It’s like buying a stock -- if you think it’s a good
stock, and it’s at a good price, then you buy it,” Baker said
last week. “That’s not to say prices won’t go lower, but these
mortgage rates could go higher if people wait a year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in Boston at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 