-- 
Los Angeles Dodgers Sued by Fox Sports Over Broadcast Contract for Games

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-09-28T16:27:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/los-angeles-dodgers-sued-by-fox-sports-over-broadcast-contract-for-games.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports sued the
 Los Angeles  Dodgers to prevent a possible sale of future media
rights as part of the Major League Baseball team’s bankruptcy.  By preparing to sell the television rights to future games,
the Dodgers’ violated its contract with Fox Sports Net West 2
LLC, which does business as Prime Ticket, Fox said in a
complaint filed yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
Wilmington,  Delaware . The contract requires the team to only
negotiate with Fox until October 2012 and gives the company
matching rights to any deal cut after that date, Fox said.  Fox also accused team owner  Frank McCourt  of using
bankruptcy to keep control of the team, not improve the Dodgers’
financial position.  The Dodgers’ “purported liquidity crisis has been resolved
and the only crisis facing the debtors pertains to the control
of the baseball club by present ownership,” Fox said in court
papers.  “The  Los Angeles Dodgers  have fully complied with all of
their obligations under the existing contract with Fox,”
Stefanie Goodsell, a spokeswoman for the team, said today in an
e-mailed statement. “The Dodgers look forward to the
opportunity to obtain court approval of its marketing process,
which will enable the Dodgers to emerge from bankruptcy on a
solid financial footing.”  Monitor Named  The Dodgers filed for bankruptcy in June after Major League
Baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig  named a monitor to oversee the
team’s day-to-day operations and rejected a proposed television-
rights deal with Fox Sports. The team said it faced a temporary
cash crisis that would be resolved once it sold the future
television rights.  The Dodgers engaged in talks with unidentified parties
before filing for bankruptcy, violating Fox’s rights under the
telecast agreement, Fox said in its filing.  Major League Baseball  said in court papers last week that
it won’t approve a new television contract reached by McCourt
before the current Fox negotiating period ends in 2012. Selig
asked the judge overseeing the bankruptcy case, Kevin Gross, to
strip McCourt of his exclusive right to reorganize the Dodgers
so MLB can try to sell the team.  The bankruptcy case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-
12010, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 