-- 
Hospitals Risk Lower U.S. Payments for Failing to Reduce Repeat Patients

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 
2011-09-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/hospitals-risk-revenue-cuts-as-they-fail-to-reduce-readmissions.html
U.S. hospitals risk cuts in
Medicare payments next year after failing to reduce avoidable
readmissions, a  Dartmouth Atlas Project  study showed.  The report tracked 10.7 million discharges at 1,925
hospitals from 2004 to 2009 and found that readmissions of
elderly patients within 30 days of a hospital stay have remained
the same or increased. Earlier work by the Lebanon, New
Hampshire-based research group influenced strategies in
President Barack Obama’s 2010 health-care overhaul.  Avoidable readmissions cost Medicare, the federal health
plan for the elderly and disabled, at least $17 billion
annually, according to U.S. estimates quoted by the Dartmouth
group.  The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services  in
Baltimore plans to cut payments by 1 percent to hospitals with
excessive rates starting in fiscal 2013.  “This report should be a wakeup call for hospitals,” said
 David Goodman , a physician and co-author of the Dartmouth Atlas
study. “It clearly shows how far we have to go and how
difficult it’s going to be to get there.”  The 30-day readmission rate following a surgery was 12.7
percent nationally in 2004 and 2009. The rate after an illness
rose to 16.1 percent in 2009 from 15.9 percent in 2004.  Academic Medical Centers  The medical and surgical readmission rates of about half of
the 94 academic medical centers surveyed increased during the
four years. Among those with the largest statistically
significant jumps were  Montefiore Medical Center  in New York,
 Albany  Medical Center in Albany, New York, and University
Hospitals Case Medical Centers in  Cleveland , all of which gained
3.8 percentage points for surgical readmissions. The University
of  Connecticut  Health Center in Farmington, Connecticut saw its
medical readmission rate rise 4.8 percentage points and Nebraska
Medical Center in Omaha climbed 4.6 points.  The academic medical centers with the largest drops in
surgical readmissions were the University of  Missouri  Hospital
and Clinic in Columbia, Missouri, which fell 5.2 percentage
points, and Oklahoma University Medical Center in  Oklahoma City ,
which dipped 3.9 percentage points. Chicago-based Northwestern
Memorial Hospital’s medical readmission rate dropped 3.2 points.  Other medical centers that experienced an increase in the
rate of readmitted patients were  New York Presbyterian Hospital ,
a gain of 3.3 percentage points for surgical readmissions and
2.2 for medical;  Massachusetts General Hospital , an increase of
2 percentage points for medical readmissions; and Dartmouth
Hitchcock Medical Center, based in Lebanon,  New Hampshire , up
2.7 points in surgical readmissions.  No Monitoring  The persistent readmission rate is caused by a lack of
early follow-up with patients and caregivers to ensure they
understand and heed doctors’ orders, Goodman said in a telephone
interview. Often too, patients are treated for the illness that
landed them in the hospital, even though they are suffering from
other conditions that will send them back weeks or even days
later, he said.  U.S. payment systems have also tended to reward fragmented
care, Goodman said. Many hospitals don’t change their practices
because they benefit in the short run from higher revenue that
comes from readmissions, he said.  “So it has remained business as usual for the last few
years,” Goodman said. “Yet, when Medicare starts penalizing
them, you know there will be complaints.”  The agency’s penalties will rise from the 1 percent payment
cut in fiscal 2013 to 2 percent in fiscal 2014 and 3 percent in
2015. While hospitals are likely to improve Readmission rates
before the penalties kick in, the nation shouldn’t focus on what
happens to a patient after only 30 days, Goodman said.  “The health care system needs more than just 30 days
responsibility for a patient population,” Goodman said. “Tell
me what happens on day 31 and day 90.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pat Wechsler in  New York  at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 