-- 
Tottenham Offers to Double Luka Modric’s Salary, Mail Says: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-09-28T08:05:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/tottenham-offers-to-double-luka-modric-s-salary-mail-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Modric’s Money  Tottenham has offered to pay Luka Modric more than 100,000
pounds ($156,600) a week, doubling his salary as the north
 London  club tries to keep the midfielder,  the Daily Mail said.   The player, who tried to move to Chelsea before the start
of the season despite signing a six-year contract last year,
would be Spurs’ first player to make more than 100,000 pounds a
week, the newspaper said.  The offer is for 95,000 pounds a week with a possible bonus
that could raise it to 130,000 pounds, the newspaper said.  Hazard Battle  Real Madrid and Arsenal will fight to sign Lille midfielder
Eden Hazard,  the Daily Mirror said.   Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  tried to sign the 20-year-old
before the start of this season but Real’s director of football
Zinedine Zidane is pushing the French club not to listen to the
Gunner’s offer, the newspaper said.  Real are monitoring the forward, which may hurt Arsenal’s
chance to sign the Belgian, the newspaper said.  Tottenham’s King  Ledley King  said he has 20 games to win a contract
extension from Tottenham,  the Sun said.   The defender wants to remain at the north London club,
where he’s spent 13 seasons, although the team’s board may let
the oft-injured player to leave when his contract ends, the
newspaper said.  King has chronic knee problems that make it difficult to
play more than one game a week, the newspaper said.  Lampard Rejection  Chelsea coach Andre Villas-Boas said  Frank Lampard  has an
important role at the club, and rejected questions about the
futures of the midfielder and striker Didier Drogba,  the
Guardian said.   Lampard hasn’t played an entire game since Sept. 10, while
Drogba came on as a substitute last week after missing a month
with concussion, the newspaper said. The manager, who wouldn’t
say whether Lampard will start tonight’s  Champions League  match,
said he was trying to rotate his players to keep the squad
fresh, the newspaper said.  Barton for England?  Joey Barton says he wants England coach  Fabio Capello  to
return him to the national team,  the Daily Express said.   The 29-year-old moved to Queen’s Park Rangers this year
after a dispute with  Newcastle United . He said he may want to
play until he’s nearly 40, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 