-- 
Pemex Takes Top Issuer Spot After Revival of Shelved Sale: Mexico Credit

-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 
2011-09-28T12:42:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/pemex-takes-top-issuer-spot-after-sale-revival-mexico-credit.html
Petroleos Mexicanos’ revival of a
10-billion peso ($746 million) local bond sale it scrapped two
weeks ago is making the state oil company the biggest issuer in
the country as it finances a $270 billion investment program.  Latin America ’s largest oil producer issued debt at yields
tied to the interbank rate and inflation yesterday, pushing its
sales this year to 20 billion pesos, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Pemex, as the Mexico City-based company is known,
dropped the fixed-rate part of the offering after Europe’s
deepening debt crisis this month drove benchmark yields up 56
basis points, or 0.56 percentage point, the most since November
2010.  The sale is the biggest in the local market since March and
swells corporate offerings this month to $2 billion, a contrast
to a drought in the overseas market that has reached four weeks.
Pemex, which cited “high volatility” when it pulled the issue
on Sept. 13, is tapping into a global rebound spurred by
speculation that  Europe  will resolve the region’s debt crisis.  “Two weeks ago the world was going to end,” Alberto Bernal, head of fixed-income research for Miami-based Bulltick
Capital Markets, said in a telephone interview. “It looks like
Europe is taking more aggressive decisions now. Today people are
calmer,” helping shore up demand for Mexican debt, he said.  Global stocks rallied the most since May 2010 and
commodities gained yesterday as U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  predicted European governments will take measures to
solve the region’s crisis. The MSCI All-Country World Index
surged 3 percent. The Mexican oil export mix advanced 2.7
percent to $97.98 a barrel.  Investor Demand  The yield on the Mexican government’s peso bonds due in
2024 fell 16 basis points yesterday, the most since Aug. 26, to
6.74 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Pemex  sold  7 billion pesos of floating-rate peso bonds due
in 2017 to yield 24 basis points over the 28-day TIIE interbank
deposit rate and 3 billion pesos of 10-year inflation-linked
debt with a coupon of 3.55 percent.  Yesterday’s bond sale was oversubscribed 2.5 times, Pemex
said on its website. Corp. Actinver SAB and the local units of
HSBC Holdings Plc, Banco Santander SA and Bank of America Corp.
participated as underwriters, Pemex said.  “The local market showed a window of opportunity” for the
bond sales, Pemex’s press department said in a separate e-mailed
statement to Bloomberg yesterday.  The funds raised will go
toward refinancing and investment, Pemex said.  The company is benefiting from investor demand for higher-
rated debt and securities sold by state-owned companies, said
Sergio Mendez, who helps manage 100 billion pesos at pension
fund Afore XXI.  Credit Quality  Pemex is rated BBB by  Standard & Poor’s , the second-lowest
investment grade and the same as Mexico. Comision Federal de
Electricidad, the state-owned utility also rated BBB, sold 7
billion pesos of bonds due in 2020 on Sept. 22. The Mexican unit
of Banco Santander SA also sold 2.8 billion pesos of floating-
rate bonds yesterday.  “Investors like Pemex’s credit quality,” Mendez said in a
telephone interview from Mexico City. “It’s among the highest
in Mexico and it also satisfies demand for quasi-sovereign
debt.”  The company will invest about $27 billion a year during the
next decade to reverse a six-year decline in oil output,
according to company presentations this year. Production fell in
September to the lowest since July 1990 after adverse weather
from Tropical Storm Nate prevented exports and cut output in the
early part of the month, Pemex said Sept. 27. The company
produced an average of 2.49 million barrels a day in September,
compared with 2.57 million barrels during the same period a year
earlier.  Oil Output  Crude production is headed for a 13th consecutive monthly
decline after Nate prompted temporary closings of the company’s
oil export terminals and evacuations of 473 workers from five
offshore platforms in the  Gulf of Mexico .  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican dollar
bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  narrowed 1 basis point to 258
at 8:40 a.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan’s indexes.  The peso fell 0.3 percent to 13.4078 per  U.S. dollar .  Yields on futures contracts due in October, known as TIIE,
fell one basis point yesterday to 4.77 percent.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years fell 15 basis points yesterday to 180, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  European Crisis  The pick-up in local issuance may be short-lived if concern
mounts again about Europe’s ability to contain its debt crisis,
said Miguel Angel Aguayo, fixed-income analyst at Grupo
Financiero Banorte-Ixe.  “We are living in an uncertain environment,” Aguayo said
in a telephone interview from  Mexico  City. “Why should Pemex
wait to tap the market when things can get worse?”  Mexican companies haven’t sold debt in the overseas market
since Aug. 31, the longest stretch since July 6, Bloomberg data
show. The average yield on corporate dollar debt rose to 7.28
percent this week, the highest since April 2010, according to
JPMorgan.  Issuance of investment-grade bonds in the U.S. rose to $6.7
billion this week, compared with $650 million in all of last
week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Pemex realized that the events in the last few days
changed the perception for the bonds,” Bulltick’s Bernal said.
“There is less of a chance of the world exploding today than
there were a couple of weeks ago.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net 
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  