-- 
As Perry Falters Romney Could Be Last Standing: Margaret Carlson

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 
2011-09-28T00:00:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/perry-may-leave-romney-last-one-standing-commentary-by-margaret-carlson.html
If Texas Governor Rick Perry isn’t
the un-Romney that the Republican base craves, who, oh who, will
it be?  If Perry cedes the un-Romney label -- and the nomination --
you can carbon date the moment when his campaign’s decomposition
began: Sept. 22, 2011, between 9 p.m. and 11 p.m. EDT. That’s
when the Texas governor stumbled through one of the worst debate
performances in memory. Weekly Standard editor William Kristol
called Perry’s flubs close to “disqualifying.” Red State blogger
Erick Erickson said he was a “train wreck.” The New York Post’s
John Podhoretz deemed Perry’s performance: “Awful. Just awful.”
Brit Hume of  Fox News  went the gross-out route, saying Perry
“really did throw up all over himself.”  And those are his friends speaking.  Talk of Perry’s debate fiasco jumped from the tiny world of
political insiders into the mainstream of late-night television
comedy, generating ridicule, including an appearance on  David Letterman ’s Top Ten list, at warp speed. Yet even before the
latest debate, Perry was fodder for jokes. Watching him over the
past three weeks, party operatives in Washington had begun
either praying for New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  to enter
the race or reconciling themselves to the view that former
Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney is the best the party can
muster in 2012.  Perry didn’t just insert his foot in his mouth; he inserted
a wedge between his candidacy and the Republican base. Defending
his policy of allowing children of illegal immigrants to attend
state colleges at the cheaper, in-state tuition rate, Perry
sounded as if he thought his party is still home to  George W. Bush ’s compassionate conservatives. “If you say that we should
not educate children who come into our state for no other reason
than that they’ve been brought there through no fault of their
own, I don’t think you have a heart,” Perry said.  Republican pollster Frank Luntz said that Republicans he
assembled for a focus group responded so viscerally to Perry’s
immigration talk that they couldn’t turn their dials to negative
fast enough.  Iowa  kingmaker Bob Vander Plaats, who helped former
Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee  win the Iowa Republican caucuses
last time around, said he was sure that Perry would take the
opportunity to clarify his stance at an appearance the next day
before the Florida Conservative Political Action Convention.
Perry didn’t. As a result, Vander Plaats told Time, a lot of
conservatives who once ran toward Perry are now “running to
somebody else.” Given that opening, don’t be surprised to see
Romney, who has mostly ignored Iowa, suddenly find his way to
 Des Moines  and Davenport.  As if to confirm Vander Plaats’ assessment, the Florida
CPAC straw poll last weekend was won by pizza entrepreneur
 Herman Cain , who received 37 percent of the 2,600 votes cast by
party activists. Perry, who was expected to win or at least make
a strong showing, had 15 percent, and Romney followed with 14
percent.  Immigration is not an issue Perry can finesse; if he holds
to his position on in-state tuition he will alienate much of the
Republican base. If he retreats, he opens himself up to charges
that he lacks conviction. A pattern may already be established.
At the last debate, Perry tried to wiggle away from his claim
that Social Security is “unconstitutional.” Romney, the flip-
flop king, gleefully clobbered the Texan for shifting his views.  Perry’s vulnerabilities extend beyond the border he so
regularly invokes. When the debate turned to foreign policy,
Perry looked far out at sea. Responding to a predictable
question about the proverbial 3 a.m. phone call -- in this
scenario the Taliban had gained control of  Pakistan ’s nuclear
weapons -- Perry was positively Palinesque. He began by mumbling
about a terrorist group in  Afghanistan , mentioned building a
“relationship in the region” and then said something about
selling more arms to  India . By the time Perry’s meandering had
mercifully concluded, he found himself 3,000 miles east of
Islamabad -- in  Taiwan .  After three debates in which parts of the country not named
Texas have been exposed to him, Perry’s appeal has diminished
and the quality of his performance has declined. The debates
have revealed that Perry is neither consistently conservative
enough to satisfy the Tea Party activists driving the nomination
from below, nor sufficiently presidential to mollify the
establishment hovering nervously above. And his mind is a
muddle.  Yet there is no one waiting in the wings. Those begging
Christie to jump in will almost certainly be disappointed -- in
part because Christie is self-aware and observant enough to know
that his path to the nomination would probably prove no easier
than Perry’s. Sarah Palin? It’s not clear that even the base is
interested in her at this point. Still, there must be an un-
Romney. Until Republicans find one, Romney remains the only
electable Republican in sight.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson in  Washington  at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 