-- 
Perry Backtracks on ‘Heart’ Remark on Illegal-Immigrant Tuition

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-09-29T04:00:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/perry-retreats-from-no-heart-debate-remark-on-illegal-immigrant-tuition.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Rick Perry  retreated from his debate statement last week that
those who oppose in-state tuition for illegal immigrants don’t
“have a heart.”  “I probably chose a poor word to explain that,” the  Texas 
governor told the website  Newsmax  in an interview yesterday. “I
was probably a bit over-passionate by using that word, and it
was inappropriate.”  Perry, who had been the leader in national polls of the
Republican race, has been on the defensive since making his
“heart” comment at a televised debate Sept. 22. His Republican
rivals have chastised him for it and his immigration stance
threatens to alienate Republican primary voters.  “If you say that we should not educate children who have
come into our state for no other reason than they’ve been
brought there by no fault of their own, I don’t think you have a
heart,” Perry said at the debate, drawing boos from the
Republican audience in  Orlando ,  Florida .  He was explaining his support for a Texas law that allows
children of illegal immigrants who gain admittance to state
universities to pay in-state tuition rates, which are less
expensive than the costs for out-of-state students.  Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney pounced on the
comment Sept. 23, saying opposing the policy “doesn’t mean that
you don’t have a heart; it means that you have a heart and a
brain.”  ‘Hard to Explain’  Romney said he wasn’t satisfied with Perry’s backtrack,
telling radio show host Sean Hannity yesterday that the Texan’s
policy position is still “really unfortunate” and “very hard
to explain.”  “I understand he has apologized for using the ‘you don’t
have a heart’ phrase,” Romney said. “But the question here is
whether the policy makes any sense,” adding that he had vetoed
similar legislation as governor. “I think the American people
recognize, we like legal immigration; we will, however, stop
illegal immigration.”  U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota  sent out
fundraising appeals that told supporters, “We can’t settle for
a candidate who won’t build a border fence and who will give in-
state tuition benefits to illegal immigrants.”  Perry has said it is impractical to build a fence along the
entire length of the U.S.-Mexico border.  In the Newsmax interview, Perry said the in-state tuition
issue was a matter for states to decide, and the measure had
near-unanimous support in Texas because it “wasn’t about
immigration; it was about education.”  He also defended his stance on a border fence, saying
building one would cost too much, take too long and trample on
too many property rights, as well as being ineffective. Instead,
he said he supports building “strategic fencing” in
metropolitan areas and stationing agents on the ground and in
the air to monitor the border.  “Having an obstacle without observation is no obstacle at
all,” Perry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  