-- 
Peru Not Planning to Raise Tax ‘At the Moment,’ Lerner Says

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-09-28T19:24:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/peru-to-sign-mining-tax-law-today-cabinet-chief-lerner-says.html
The Peruvian government, which will
sign a law today increasing royalties on mining companies, has
no plans “at the moment” to ask other industries to pay more
tax, Cabinet Chief Salomon Lerner said.  Increased revenue isn’t needed now because rising metal
prices and economic growth has left the government with a
bigger-than-expected  budget surplus  this year equivalent to 1.7
percent of gross domestic product, Lerner said.  “We’re not going to create new taxes now when we have a
fiscal surplus,” Lerner said at a news conference in Lima
today. “ We don’t have that in our agenda at the moment, but
the world is very changeable. No one was expecting the crisis in
 Europe .”  President  Ollanta Humala  was elected June 5 on pledges to
boost state control of the country’s oil and gas reserves and
impose a mining windfall tax. Business confidence plunged after
Humala’s election victory sparked concern the windfall tax would
jeopardize $50 billion of mine expansions over the next decade.
The government expects the tax increase, which legislators
approved last week, will generate an additional $1.1 billion in
annual revenue.  Humala’s government will take a stronger role in the
domestic  energy industry  by expanding oil production at
Petroleos del Peru SA and a investing in a natural  gas pipeline 
in the south of the country, Lerner said.  The government is considering investing in a $1.7 billion
hydroelectric plant in the southern jungle and a thermal power
plant, and will partner  Repsol YPF SA (REP)  in a project to increase
gas supply to households, he said.  State bank Banco de la Nacion will seek a larger share of
the microfinance market to meet the needs of the 40 percent of
the country that doesn’t have access to credit, Lerner said.  “This is a different state,” Lerner said. “The state is
going to participate in areas that aren’t risky and that are
necessary to complement the work of foreign investors.”  The sol weakened 0.3 percent to 2.7715 per dollar at 3:15
p.m. New York time from 2.7633 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  