-- 
Peugeot Worst Casualty of Europe Crisis

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 
2011-09-28T22:06:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/peugeot-worst-casualty-of-europe-crisis.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen’s sliding share
price has left the French carmaker trading at a record discount
to  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  on investor expectations it will be the worst
automotive casualty of the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  Paris-based Peugeot has declined 41 percent this year, the
steepest drop among European automakers, expanding the gap to
Volkswagen’s shares to 91 euros from a 10-year average of 16
euros. Its 3.8 billion-euro ($5.2 billion) market value is less
than one-tenth of 2010 annual revenue of 56 billion euros.  Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin’s efforts to reduce
dependence on  Europe  through emerging-market expansion may be
too late to prevent Peugeot, Europe’s second-largest automaker
after VW, from taking the brunt of a downturn, investors said.
The first-half operating margin at Peugeot’s automotive division
fell to 1.8 percent from 2.5 percent.  “As soon as there’s any kind of wind, Peugeot’s margins
blow away,” said Lorenz Blume, an analyst at Stuttgart-based
 LBBW Asset Management , which offloaded 190,000 Peugeot shares in
the first half and now holds 3,600 among its 18 billion euros of
investments. “There’s no such thing as too cheap if they’re
going to burn cash again.”  The carmaker posted first-half free  cash flow  that was a
negative 179 million euros and in July forecast a figure “close
to neutral” for the full year. During the last downturn,
Peugeot reported 3.76 billion euros in negative cash flow in
2008 and a 343 million-euro net loss, prompting Varin to promise
cost cuts and a sales boost to narrow the gap with peers.  Vehicle Valuations  Peugeot’s first-half European sales accounted for 62
percent of the total, while VW’s made up 50 percent. The slump
in the French company’s stock means Peugeot is valued at
2,096 euros per car sold in the first half versus 11,334 euros
for every vehicle sold by Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW.  Peugeot shares trade at 3.2 times the company’s estimated
full-year earnings, according to Bloomberg data. That compares
with 3.6 for  Renault SA (RNO) , 4.7 for VW and 6.4 for  Fiat SpA. (F)   “When things go bad in Europe, you sell Peugeot,” London-
based Credit Suisse analyst Erich Hauser said. “Investors see
the stock as a pure regional play.”  Varin introduced new vehicles including the 5008 crossover,
508 large car and Citroen DS3 premium subcompact in the last two
years to lift sales and pricing power. The carmaker’s eight-
month European market share nonetheless declined to 12.9 percent
from 13.7 percent a year earlier, according to the Brussels-
based European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association. VW gained
to 23.2 percent from 21.4 percent.  VW’s Advantages  “What’s worrying is that they’re at a good stage of their
model cycle, yet there’s little evidence of any margin
enhancement,” said London-based Sanford C. Bernstein analyst
 Max Warburton . “Instead it’s going the other way.”  Volkswagen’s success over Peugeot rests in part on an early
expansion in  China , which is now its single biggest market. The
carmaker also has a stable of nine brands, including profit
driver Audi AG, the world’s second-biggest maker of luxury cars.
Peugeot entered China years after Volkswagen and has no luxury
brand in its portfolio.  While Peugeot counts on its home region for 62 percent of
volumes and a bigger, undisclosed share of earnings, Fiat’s
European exposure is diluted by its majority stake in Chrysler
Group LLC, and Renault’s by a 43.4 percent holding in Nissan
Motor Co. that brings dividend earnings from China,  India  and
 North America .  ‘Thrown in Towel’  VW’s first-half earnings before interest and taxes more
than doubled to 6.09 billion euros on rising demand in China.
Peugeot’s operating profit in the period was flat at 1.16
billion euros.  “That was a big disappointment after everything we’d heard
about the new models,” said Lionel Heurtin, who helps manage
1.5 billion euros in equity investments for Paris-based OFI
Asset Management and trimmed his Peugeot holding by one-fifth on
Sept. 12. “I’ve more or less thrown in the towel.”  To be sure, others see Peugeot’s share-price plunge as a
buying opportunity, provided that the worst macro-economic
concerns prove to be exaggerated.  “The valuation is compelling,” said Albrecht Denninghoff,
a Frankfurt-based analyst at Silvia Quandt Research GmbH who
recommends buying the stock. “With the right trigger, it could
flip from the sector’s worst performer to the best.”  ‘Reduced to Mid-Cap’  Peugeot has a “stable shareholder structure and a strategy
based on long-term vision, not market valuation,” spokesman
Pierre-Olivier Salmon said when asked about the family-
controlled company’s share performance. The prospect of another
economic slump “reinforces our strategy rather than undermining
it,” he said. The carmaker declined to make executives
available for interviews for this story.  VW is increasing the pain for Peugeot with lower-priced
vehicles in smaller-size categories traditionally dominated by
the French and Fiat. After revamping the Polo subcompact in
2009, VW will introduce the Up! micro car at the end of 2011.  Peugeot was the first European carmaker to announce belt-
tightening measures in anticipation of a renewed slump. Varin
told reporters Sept. 13 that he was preparing to cut temporary
contracts accounting for 10 percent of domestic manufacturing
workers. VW is still adding extra shifts at German factories to
keep up with demand for its models outside the region.  With investors concerned about Peugeot’s future
profitability as Europe’s economy slumps, the carmaker last week
dropped to the bottom ranking on  France ’s main market index.  “It’s astonishing to see Peugeot effectively reduced to a
mid-cap,” said  Valerie Cazaban , who helps manage $100 million
in assets including Peugeot stock for Paris-based Stratege
Finance. The possibility of relegation from the benchmark index
may now be “weighing the stock down further,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  