-- 
Pimco’s Jennifer Bridwell to Head Alternatives Products in Hedge Fund Push

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-09-28T17:17:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/pimco-said-to-name-bridwell-alternative-products-head-in-hedge-fund-push.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.
named Jennifer Bridwell head of alternatives product development
as the firm expands hedge funds and distressed-debt strategies.  Bridwell was previously head of mortgage strategies
development at  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco, where she
has worked since 2005, the firm said today in a statement. Pimco
has attracted $16 billion in assets into such strategies over
the past decade as it opened funds to invest in troubled
mortgages and bonds backed by real-estate loans, the firm said.  Pimco, best known for its fixed-income mutual funds such as
those run by  Bill Gross , has offered hedge funds to
institutional clients for the past decade, and since 2007 has
opened funds to buy distressed securities that fell in value
after the global credit crisis. Under Chief Executive Officer
Mohamed El-Erian, the firm is also pushing into products such as
stock funds and exchange-traded funds.  Pimco’s  hedge funds  and distressed debt products will be
housed in the new alternatives division overseen by Bridwell.  Pimco raised $2.4 billion this year for the Bravo fund,
short for Bank Recapitalization and Value Opportunities Fund,
according to a person familiar with the matter, who asked not to
be identified because the information is private. The Bravo
fund, which buys debt such as troubled commercial and
residential mortgages, also targets smaller lenders and
community banks and will be run by a team of Pimco managers.  Distressed Funds  Similar funds by Pimco include the Pimco Distressed
Mortgage Fund II LP, started in early 2009. Pimco also manages
the Distressed Senior Credit Opportunities Fund, which returned
more than 60 percent in the year ended June 30, 2010, according
to a spokesman for the comptroller of the New York City
Employees Retirement System, an investor in the fund.  Pimco, led by co-investment chiefs Gross and El-Erian,
manages more than $1.3 trillion in assets. In 2009, the firm
said it would diversify into equities, led by former Treasury
official  Neel Kashkari . Pimco’s equity funds have attracted more
than $4 billion in assets.  In a rare reversal for Pimco, home to the world’s biggest
mutual fund, the firm abandoned a separate effort to oversee
money for endowments and foundations that would have used
outside managers, four people familiar with the matter said this
month.  Pimco is a unit of Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  