-- 
Pimco, Neuberger Defy Bank Bond ‘Pain Threshold’: Credit Markets

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n   a n d   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 
2011-09-29T11:13:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/pimco-neuberger-defy-pain-threshold-with-bank-bond-bet-credit-markets.html
Bond managers from Pacific
Investment Management Co. to  Neuberger Berman  Management LLC are
sticking with bets that U.S. banks will withstand a European
crisis that’s triggered the biggest losses since early 2009.  More than half of investors said they were “comfortable”
holding bank bonds versus non-financial securities, even after
the debt underperformed by 6.9 percent since April, according to
a JPMorgan Chase & Co. survey. Only 7 percent of the investors
said they were “unwinding” positions, JPMorgan strategists
wrote in a Sept. 26 note.  Some of the world’s biggest debt investors say U.S. bank
balance sheets have been fortified enough since the 2008 failure
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. to weather the sovereign-debt
crisis that now threatens to infect Europe’s banking system and
derail the U.S. economic recovery. That’s giving them confidence
to ride out losses of 3.5 percent since the end of July, the
biggest slide in 30 months, on lenders from  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  to Morgan Stanley.  “We understand and are respectful of the volatility due to
issues out of Europe and concerns about U.S. economic growth,
but for long-term value, U.S. money-center banks are a good
option,”  David Brown , a money manager at Neuberger Berman in
Chicago, which oversees more than $85 billion in fixed-income
assets, said in a telephone interview. They’ve “done a great
job improving their capital position and their asset quality has
continued to improve.”  ‘Pain threshold’  Pimco’s  Mark Kiesel , global head of corporate bond
portfolios at the manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, said
in a note on the company’s website last week that investors
should be buying U.S. bank debt, while cutting risk elsewhere.
Kiesel didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail and a telephone
call to elaborate.  While the bets should pay off in the long-term, losses may
continue, JPMorgan strategists led by  Eric Beinstein  in  New York 
said. That’s bringing investors closer to a “pain threshold”
at which point some could seek to limit additional declines,
exit the trade, and cause a further slump, they said.  Elsewhere in credit markets , a gauge of U.S. corporate
risk snapped three days of declines as investor confidence
mounted that  Europe ’s leaders will fail to prevent a default by
 Greece . Deutsche Bank AG is marketing $609 million of bonds
backed by commercial property loans in the first offering of its
type since sales revived in November 2009. Georgia-Pacific LLC,
the tissue-maker owned by Koch Industries Inc., obtained $3.5
billion of loans due in 2016.  Bonds of Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America
were the most actively traded U.S. corporate securities by
dealers, with 127 trades of $1 million or more, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Credit Risk  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, added 4.7 basis points to a mid-
price of 140.9 basis points, according to Markit Group Ltd.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default swaps
linked to 125 companies with investment-grade ratings rose 3.5
basis points to 196, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  at 12
p.m. in  London .  The indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Floating-Rate Mortgages  The Deutsche Bank issue will be tied to floating-rate
mortgages including debt on the Hotel del Coronado, located on
oceanfront property near  San Diego , and the Standard Hotel in
Manhattan, according to people with knowledge of the offering,
who declined to be identified because the discussions are
private.  Floating-rate loans, which are short-term and give property
owners more flexibility to pay off the debt early, are often
taken out when owners are anticipating a significant boost in
income from the properties, and can be riskier for investors.  The transaction from the Frankfurt-based lender is the
first so-called floater to compile debt from multiple borrowers
since the commercial-mortgage  bond market  slammed shut in 2008
amid a lending freeze. Banks arranged a combined $66.4 billion
in floating-rate commercial-mortgage backed securities in 2006
and 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Georgia-Pacific’s senior unsecured debt includes a U.S.
dollar-denominated loan, an international term piece and a
revolving line of credit, the company said yesterday in a
statement distributed by PR Newswire.  Loan Index  Proceeds of the loan and equity from Koch will refinance
all of the Atlanta-based company’s senior loans, according to
the statement. The company had $2.25 billion in term loans and a
$1.25 billion revolving  credit line , all due in August 2016,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 index
fell for the fourth time in five days, decreasing 0.05 cent to
89.17 cents on the dollar. The measure, which tracks the 100
largest dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged loans, has
declined from 89.84 on Sept. 21, which was the highest since
Aug. 8. The index decreased to 87.47 cents on Aug. 26, the
lowest level since December 2009.  Leveraged loans and high-yield bonds are rated below Baa3
by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- by S&P.  In emerging markets, relative yields rose 1 basis point to
447 basis points, or 4.47 percentage points, according to
JPMorgan’s EMBI Global index. The index has expanded from 259
basis points on Jan. 5.  Financial Debt  Bond traders are demanding the biggest premiums in two
years to hold financial company debt instead of bonds of
industrial companies, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data.  Financial debt is trading at 338 basis points more than
Treasuries, 128 basis points more than the 210 basis-point
spread for industrial bonds, index data show. The gap reached
132 basis points on Sept. 23, the widest since September 2009.  Pimco’s Kiesel has advocated for much of the past two years
that investors buy the senior debt of U.S. lenders. Bank of
America and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  were poised to be “two of the
stars” in fixed-income markets this year, Kiesel said in
December. Senior-ranked bank bonds are among a handful of assets
that remain a safe bet “given strengthening capital and balance
sheets,” he said in the note last week.  Investors generally should be holding greater amounts of
cash and avoiding the most indebted companies as the economy
slows, the  Newport Beach , California-based manager said in the
 note .  ‘Much Better Shape’  U.S. banks “are in much better shape than they were pre-
financial crisis, and Basel 3 requirements are only going to
improve that strength,” said Brian Machan, a money manager at
Aviva Investors North America in Des Moines, Iowa, where he
helps oversee $57 billion. Machan was referring to new
international capital standards set by the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision.  The weighted average Tier 1 capital ratio for banks in a
JPMorgan index, a measure of the lenders’ financial strength,
climbed to 12.2 percent in the second quarter, the seventh
straight quarterly increase and a 60 percent improvement over
the past four years, JPMorgan strategists said in a note to
clients last month.  “Capital raises, write-downs and general de-risking of
balance sheets have made U.S. banks harder to topple,” Marc Pinto, head of corporate bond strategy at broker-dealer
Susquehanna Financial Group said in a Sept. 19 note to clients.
That’s “even if their European counterparts, which had been
similarly reinforced (except with respect to funding), now face
a new potential series of sovereign debt writedowns and
liquidity challenges,” he wrote.  Wall Street Dealers  The increased capital cushions are doing little to ease
broader market concerns as Federal Reserve data show corporate
bond holdings by Wall Street dealers plunge to the lowest since
April 2009. Bank of America bonds lost 5.2 percent this month
and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  debt declined 3.8 percent, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  Bank of America’s $1.5 billion of 5.875 percent, notes due
in January 2021 that were issued in December have declined 5.2
cents to 94.1 cents on the dollar as of yesterday, Trace data
show. Its stock has also plunged this year on both the European
crisis and concerns that it faces larger losses tied to faulty
mortgages.  ‘Fund Our Business’  The lender had a record $402 billion of liquidity at the
end of the second quarter, spokesman  Jerry Dubrowski  said.  “We have roughly two years worth of liquidity on hand to
fund our business operations without having to go to the
market,”  Dubrowski said in a telephone interview. “We did
that in part because we wanted to be somewhat insulated from the
volatility of the market and be able to fund.” Bank of America
doesn’t comment on stock and bond movements, he said.  “Simply adding capital right now to already conservative
balance sheets will not be sufficient for spreads to improve,”
Neuberger Berman’s Brown said. “We must see some resolution and
clarity to the risks in Europe and potential liabilities from
legacy mortgage loans.”  DoubleLine Capital LP, the $17 billion investment firm run
by  Jeffrey Gundlach , is avoiding U.S. banks in a bid to avert
losses stemming from the region’s fiscal imbalances.  Thomas Chow , a senior money manager who helps invest $120
billion of fixed-income assets at Philadelphia-based Delaware
Investments, said investors need to be cautious with the trade,
“especially given the kind of news that can move these sectors
around quite a bit.”  “Those who have held onto this trade for a long time,” he
said, are “certainly feeling it much more.”  Long-Term Investors  Money managers holding the debt will likely be able to
endure bigger losses than the  hedge funds  and bank proprietary
trading units that in 2008 unloaded assets as declines
accelerated, said JPMorgan’s Beinstein in New York.  “When high-grade bonds were more heavily owned by hedge
funds and bank prop desks, they were more short-term focused,
and when the positions weren’t working they would unwind them
more quickly,” Beinstein said in a telephone interview. “Now
most high-grade bonds are held by asset managers and insurance
companies. They’re long-term investors, and when they believe in
something they are generally able to hold it for quite some
time. That’s why it’s difficult to determine the pain threshold
at which they would unwind.”  ----With assistance by Sarah Mulholland and John Parry in New
York. Editors: Pierre Paulden, Alan Goldstein  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 