-- 
Private Bankers’ Asian Pay Surge Poised to Slow, Falcon CEO Says

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-09-28T04:00:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/private-bankers-asian-pay-surge-poised-to-slow-falcon-ceo-says.html
Pay increases for private bankers
in  Asia  will slow this year as waning high-margin transactions
and  Europe ’s debt crisis spur cost-cutting across the industry,
 Falcon Private Bank Ltd. ’s chief executive officer said.  “I haven’t seen a slowdown in compensation increases so
far, but it will slow given the global state of the private
banking business,” Eduardo Leemann, who runs the Zurich-based
firm, said in an interview yesterday. “You’ll see some slowdown
by the end of 2011. In 2012 and 2013, we’re unlikely to see the
20 to 30 percent growth seen in Asian relationship managers’
compensation pay.”  Falcon and rivals including  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
are competing to hire bankers and managers in Asia, where wealth
outside of Japan over the next five years is expected to rise
almost twice as fast as the global rate of almost 6 percent,
according to Boston Consulting Group data. While Leemann plans
to boost his Asian headcount, industrywide margin pressures will
make managing personnel costs a priority, he said.  Before the global financial crisis, costs for private
bankers in the Asia-Pacific region, including salaries, were
about 57 percent of the revenue they generated in 2007,
according to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. This year, cost-to-
income ratios are forecast to be 82 percent in  Singapore  and
 Hong Kong , and about 70 percent in  Switzerland , the firm said.  “Our clients have become more conservative since 2009,”
Leemann said. “The bad news is that they are holding more cash
and high-quality bonds now, meaning that the margins are less.
The good news is they are much better prepared in the recent
financial crisis when compared to the one in 2008.”  Bonus Packages  Average pretax profit margin of wealth managers increased 4
basis points last year to 23 basis points while growth in assets
under management slowed to 7.5 percent from 12.8 percent in 2009,
according to Boston Consulting’s 2011 global wealth report
covering private banks and wealth management units of banks in
Europe; Asia, excluding  Japan ;  North America  and Latin America.  Senior private bankers in Singapore earn between $160,000
and $410,000 a year, while the comparative range in Switzerland
is $152,000 to $210,000, according to London-based recruitment
firm EMA Partners International.  “It is conceivable that the bigger banks are unlikely to
make this bonus package anymore,” said Leemann, whose firm
manages about $12 billion in assets. “Some of our peers are
seeing cost-to-income ratios of at least 90 percent in Asia.”  Asia Headcount  Growth in Asian wealth in recent years has boosted demand
for financial advisory services among the region’s wealthy and
driven banks to step up their presence in Asia, pushing top
salaries in Singapore to almost twice the level of Switzerland,
the world’s biggest offshore wealth manager, according to EMA.  UBS, Switzerland’s largest bank, is expanding regional
headcount by more than 30 percent to 1,200 people, Kathryn Shih,
regional head of wealth management, has said. JPMorgan intends
to add 100 workers to the 140 it had in Asia last year, Andrew
Cohen, CEO of its wealth management has said.  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) , Southeast Asia’s largest, said
last week it plans to invest S$250 million ($193 million) to
expand private banking operations over five years, including
hiring in  China  and other emerging markets.  Falcon, owned by  Abu Dhabi ’s Aabar Investments PJSC, aims
to grow its assets under management worldwide by at least two
thirds to $20 billion to $25 billion in five years, of which at
least $3 billion of assets will come from clients in Greater
China without acquisitions, Leemann said.  The lender plans to increase its staff number in Hong Kong
to 50 from 44 by the end of this year and boost its Singapore
headcount to 15 from 10, he said. It has 300 employees globally.  “Asia is a huge market with enormous continent,” Leemann
said. “We want to focus on Greater China and that includes
China,  Taiwan  and Hong Kong.”  Falcon was purchased by state-owned Aabar from  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  in December 2008 after the insurer was
forced to sell assets to repay a U.S. government loan that saved
it from bankruptcy. The wealth manager has branches and
representative offices in Geneva, Dubai, Hong Kong and Singapore.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  