-- 
Trading Halts, Position Limits, India Retailers: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-09-28T12:04:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/trading-halts-position-limits-retailers-in-india-raters-compliance.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission began an overhaul of rules adopted after the Crash of
1987 designed to shut down the stock market during periods of
volatility, proposing that curbs be triggered when the  Standard
& Poor’s  500 Index falls 7 percent.  The changes would switch the index used for the circuit
breakers to the  S&P 500  from the  Dow Jones Industrial Average ,
according to proposals submitted by U.S. equities exchanges and
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The duration of the
halts, which also pause trading in stock futures, would be
shortened, according to a summary of the proposals from the SEC.  S&P 500 declines of 7 percent, 13 percent and 20 percent
from the prior day’s close would set off halts across all
markets, narrowing the current thresholds of 10 percent, 20
percent and 30 percent, according to the SEC.  The agency will review comments on how the suggested
changes to the marketwide curbs will work with another proposal
by the exchanges and Finra to alter circuit breakers for
individual securities instituted after the May 6, 2010, plunge
that briefly erased $862 billion in equity value, she said.  Comments may be submitted to the SEC for 21 days once the
rule proposals are published in the Federal Register. The SEC
must approve the rules for them to go into effect.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  CFTC Delays Speculative Trading Curb Vote to Oct. 18 Meeting  The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  delayed
consideration of Dodd-Frank Act rules seeking to limit
speculation in oil, natural gas and other commodities until an
Oct. 18 Washington meeting, said  Steve Adamske , CFTC spokesman.  The so-called position-limits rule, which already was
delayed once, had been on the schedule for consideration at a
meeting Oct. 4. The rule has been among the most contentious
aspects of Dodd-Frank, the financial-overhaul enacted in July
2010, and has spurred more than 13,000 letters to the CFTC.  The commodities agency has canceled the Oct. 4 meeting and
also delayed consideration of rules governing clearinghouses
that stand between buyers and sellers of derivatives, Adamske
said.  The CFTC and Securities and Exchange Commission are leading
U.S. efforts to write new derivatives regulations after largely
unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis. The
agency has proposed more than 40 rules and has begun to hold
final votes on regulations. The agency has missed Dodd-Frank’s
mid-July deadline to complete most rules, and  Gary Gensler , CFTC
chairman, said some rules will be finished in the first quarter
of 2012.  Reliance Sees  India  Open to Foreign Retailers Within 12 Months  Reliance Retail  Ltd., a unit of India’s most valuable
company, expects foreign multibrand retailers such as  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  may be allowed to enter the country in as soon as
six months from now, Chief Executive Officer Bijou Kurien said.  India’s current laws, aimed at protecting owners of smaller
shops, have restricted foreign companies to operating single-
brand outlets or wholesale stores. The CEO said the retail
market will grow to $800 billion in five to 10 years and is big
enough for the unit of  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  to compete
against possible rivals such as Wal-Mart,  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  and
 Carrefour SA. (CA)   A state panel made recommendations for opening the market
in August, including that foreign retailers should invest at
least $100 million to start stores.  Reliance Retail, with 22 formats including a new wholesale
store, has about 20 percent of the “organized retail” space,
placing it behind India’s Future Group, Kurien said.  Juncker Rules Out Increasing Resources Available to EFSF Fund  Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker ruled out an increase in
the 440 billion-euro ($600 billion) European Financial Stability
Facility as a way to help stem the debt crisis, saying attention
is focused on using the rescue fund as effectively as possible.  Euro-region leaders agreed in July to expand the EFSF’s
role by allowing the fund to buy sovereign bonds on the
secondary market, grant aid to banks and offer credit lines to
distressed euro-area governments. The EFSF currently sells bonds
to finance rescue loans.  “We will use the new instruments of the financial backstop
as efficiently as possible,” Juncker said. He declined to
answer a question about the prospects for leveraging the EFSF.  Transaction Tax Plans May Hurt Euro Area Economically, FT Says  Plans for a transaction tax on all types of financial
instruments used by European investors, to be unveiled today by
 European Commission  President Jose Manuel Barroso, could wipe
out or displace as many as 90 percent of derivatives
transactions and reduce the bloc’s long-term economic output by
almost 1.8 percent, the Financial Times reported.  The paper cited the commission’s draft impact assessment of
the planned tax.  Basel Committee Said to Keep Capital-Surcharge Plans for Banks  Global regulators may largely stick to planned capital
surcharges of as much as 2.5 percent for the world’s biggest
banks while adjusting how the levies are calculated, according
to three people familiar with the talks.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision discussed
yesterday how to respond to criticisms from banks including  BNP
Paribas SA  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  that the measures are flawed and
may stymie the financial system’s recovery, according to the
people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the talks
are private.  Regulators at the meetings in Basel,  Switzerland , said that
some complaints made by lenders on the method for calculating
the surcharges may be partly valid and require more study, two
of the people said. Surcharges would be applied to as many as 28
banks if the current proposals were in place, the Basel
committee has said.  The committee didn’t respond to calls seeking comment on
yesterday’s meetings.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  SEC Notice to S&P May Signal Enforcement Cases Against Raters  Four years after defaults on U.S. home loans began to soar,
regulators may be crafting their first case against a credit-
rating firm for deeming mortgage-backed securities safe
investments for pension funds and endowments.  Standard & Poor’s, the world’s largest provider of credit
ratings, could face claims by the Securities and Exchange
Commission related to the top grade it gave in 2007 to a $1.6
billion collateralized debt obligation that was downgraded six
months later, McGraw-Hill Cos., S&P’s parent company, said in a
regulatory filing Sept. 26.  Credit-rating firms including S&P,  Moody’s Corp. (MCO)  and Fitch
Ratings Ltd. have come under fire from lawmakers and investors
for failing to identify risks in the run-up to the financial
crisis. While regulators have increased oversight of the firms
and their processes for rating securities, they have yet to mete
out sanctions.  For more, click here.  Gazprom, RWE Raided by EU Officials in Gas Antitrust Probe  OAO Gazprom,  RWE AG (RWE)  and  OMV AG (OMV)  are among natural-gas
companies raided by European Union regulators checking on
possible antitrust violations in central and eastern  Europe .  Companies inspected may have broken antitrust rules or have
information about behavior that excluded rivals by dividing
markets, hindering access to networks, harming efforts to widen
sources of supplies and overcharging, the  European Commission 
 said  in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Gazprom units in  Germany  and the  Czech Republic  were raided
by European Union antitrust officials, the company said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. RWE, Germany’s second-biggest
utility, is cooperating with the probe after its offices in
Essen, Germany, and the Czech Republic were searched, spokesman
Peter Hoscheidt said in a phone interview. OMV is also
“cooperating fully” with EU officials in the probe after its
Austrian offices were raided, spokesman Sven Pusswald said by e-
mail.  Regulators are trying to make it easier for European gas
and power companies without their own transmission networks to
compete in the EU’s energy market. Yesterday’s investigation
“focuses on the upstream supply level, where, unilaterally or
through agreements, competition may be hampered or delayed,”
the Brussels-based commission said. It didn’t name the companies
it visited or the countries in which they are based.  Barclays Tops FSA Complaints List for U.K. Banking Customers  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets,
received more consumer banking complaints than any other lender
in the first half of 2011, according to data compiled by the
U.K.  Financial Services Authority .  Barclays received 162,611 banking complaints, resolving 95
percent of them within eight weeks, the FSA said. Santander U.K.
Plc was second with 139,386 complaints, and  Lloyds Banking Group
Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s biggest mortgage lender, racked up the most
insurance complaints with 111,897. The total number of consumer
protests rose 3 percent.  London-based Barclays said that customer service is a
priority for the bank and that it apologizes for mistakes,
corrects them quickly and identifies how to prevent them from
reoccurring.  The  British Bankers’ Association , an industry group, lost a
court challenge in April to the FSA’s payment protection
insurance guidelines.  Eesti Gaas Confirms Visit From EU Officials in Gas Probe  AS Eesti Gaas, an Estonian gas company, was raided by
European Union antitrust officials investigating the natural-gas
market, Marge Randmaa, the company’s marketing manager said in a
phone interview from Tallinn today.  Eesti Gaas fully cooperated with the investigation, Randmaa
said, declining to give any further details.  Courts  RBC Agrees to Pay $30 Million for School District CDO Losses  RBC Capital Markets LLC agreed to pay $30 million to
resolve U.S. regulators’ claims that it marketed and sold
unsuitable securities to five Wisconsin school districts that
wiped out $200 million.  RBC Capital, the investment-banking unit of  Canada ’s
biggest lender, failed to explain the risks of notes tied to
synthetic collateralized debt obligations, even though there
were “significant concerns” within the bank about whether the
investments were suitable for the school districts, the
Securities and Exchange Commission said yesterday in a
statement.  The RBC unit, which arranged the CDOs, is the second firm
to face SEC sanctions over the sale of $200 million in
derivative-linked debt to the school districts, which borrowed
money to buy the investments and planned to use returns to cover
health-care benefits for retiring employees.  The SEC sued brokerage Stifel, Nicolaus & Co. and one of
its former bankers last month for selling the CDOs to the school
districts. The government claimed school boards and managers
lacked the experience and sophistication to invest in CDOs and
appreciate their risk, the SEC said in its statement.  While RBC arranged the CDOs, it was Stifel that persuaded
the school districts to invest in it, said Kevin Foster, a
spokesman for RBC in  New York . RBC had no “significant access”
to the districts, met with them only once before being hired and
didn’t know of the misrepresentations, he said.  When Stifel was sued in August, the St. Louis-based
brokerage faulted RBC for the loss and said it would fight the
SEC allegations.  Interviews/Speeches  SEC’s Walter Expects No Plan to Repeal Tower Disclosure Rule  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commissioner Elisse Walter
said she doesn’t anticipate the agency will recommend repealing
the Tower Amendment governing disclosure in municipal securities
sales.  Walter, who spoke at a Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association  conference  in New York, said the SEC is in
the process of drafting a report that will recommend ways to
improve disclosure in the $2.9 trillion municipal  bond market .  The 1975 Tower Amendment to federal securities regulation
prohibits the SEC from requiring state and local issuers to file
disclosure documents with the agency when they sell debt. The
responsibility lies with underwriters.  Jefferies’s Owen Says Greece Default Is ‘Very Likely’  David Owen, chief European economist at Jefferies
International Ltd., talked about the Greek debt crisis and
commented on the likelihood of default and how to stem
“contagion.”  He spoke with  Andrea Catherwood  on Bloomberg Television’s
“Last Word.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  SEC Names Brockmeyer Head of Anti-Bribery Enforcement Unit  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission named Kara
Brockmeyer, an 11-year veteran of the agency, to lead a unit
responsible for enforcing anti-bribery laws.  Brockmeyer, 44, spearheaded probes of  Halliburton Co. (HAL) ,  KBR
Inc. (KBR)  and  Technip SA (TEC)  as part of a decades-long bribery scheme in
Nigeria that resulted in a $1.2 billion settlement of civil and
criminal claims, the SEC said yesterday in a statement.  Her unit, which looks for violations of the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act, was set up in 2010 as part of an overhaul of the
enforcement division. She will replace Cheryl Scarboro, who left
the SEC in June to join law firm Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP.  Brockmeyer, who joined the agency in 2000, has served as
co-head of a group focused on U.S. companies that have a
substantial amount of their operations overseas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 