-- 
Raiffeisenbank Serbia Sees Stable Dinar, Benchmark Rate Falling

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-09-28T13:33:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/raiffeisenbank-serbia-sees-stable-dinar-benchmark-rate-falling.html
Serbia ’s dinar is likely to weaken
as much as 1.5 percent by the end of the year and remain stable
throughout 2012, supported by investments, said Zoran Petrovic,
deputy chairman of Raiffeisenbank Serbia.  With inflows of portfolio investments worth almost 800
million euros ($1.1 billion) and foreign direct investment in
the first seven months of the year, “it is our assessment we
will have a stable  exchange rate  at the end of the year,”
Petrovic said in an interview today.  Raiffeisenbank Serbia forecasts a weakening of the dinar to
103 against the euro. The dinar was trading at 101.47 at 3:30
p.m. in Belgrade today.  “Traditionally the last quarter in the year has not been
good for the dinar,” Petrovic said. “Also, if  Europe  does not
resolve the debt crisis it could cause a bit more volatility in
the short term” while the dinar should remain stable throughout
2012. Measured by the purchasing power parity, the dinar “seems
to be around its equilibrium level.”  Raiffeisenbank Serbia forecasts additional cuts in
borrowing costs, with the two-week repurchase rate seen reaching
8 percent at the end of 2012, compared with 11.25 percent at
present.  “I guess there will be some additional relaxation in the
fourth quarter this year,” Petrovic said.  The Belgrade-based National Bank of Serbia last cut its
policy rate on Sept. 9 by 50 basis points, or 0.5 percentage
points, to 11.25 percent, as economic activity cooled while
inflation appears to be slowing rapidly toward single digits.
Inflation reached 10.4 percent in August, slowing from 12.1
percent in July.  The Narodna Banka Srbije has room to consider a “steeper
cut” in borrowing costs as inflation is no longer the main
concern, the head of the Fiscal Council, Pavle Petrovic, said
today at a banking conference in Belgrade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  