-- 
Chaoda, Galleon, UBS, SEC, Goodrich, S&P, RBS in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-09-28T12:29:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/rajaratnam-sentence-goodrich-millercoors-s-p-rbs-sabre-in-court-news.html
Chaoda Modern Agriculture Holdings
Ltd. (682) ’s Chairman Kwok Ho, Chief Financial Officer Andy Chan and
Fidelity Management’s George Stairs were accused of insider
trading by Hong Kong’s financial secretary.  The government alleges Kwok and Chan told Stairs about a
June 2009 share placement three days before it was publicly
announced, according to a  notice  released by Hong Kong’s  Market
Misconduct Tribunal  today.  The portfolio manager at Fidelity Management & Research Co.
allegedly netted HK$1.98 million ($254,000) on behalf of the
funds that he managed by selling 374,000 shares before the
placement and then buying 630,000 shares at a lower price as
part of the stock sale.  While insider trading can be punished by 10 years in prison
and a HK$10 million fine in a criminal court in Hong Kong, the
tribunal hearing this civil case only has the power to disgorge
profits made or losses avoided. It can also ban individuals from
being a director or manager of a corporation, and from dealing
in any securities.  Nathan Dentice, a lawyer for Stairs, told the tribunal
before the release of the notice that the allegations are
unproven and shouldn’t be taken as facts.  Rimsky Yuen, a lawyer for Kwok, and Graham Harris, a lawyer
for Andy Chan, didn’t comment on the case after the proceedings.  Rowena Kwok, spokeswoman for FIL Investment Management
(Hong Kong) Ltd., said she wasn’t aware of the case and declined
to comment.  Chaoda’s shares slumped 27 percent and were suspended on
Sept. 26 after the misconduct proceedings were first reported.
Eric Yip of Christensen, which handles investor relations for
the Chinese food producer, didn’t respond to a request for
comment.  Founded in 1994 by Kwok, Chaoda first listed in Hong Kong
in 2000. Kwok, 55, is a member of the Chinese People’s Political
Consultative Conference, China’s top political advisory body,
and has a 19.6 percent stake in the company, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Tribunal chairman Michael Lunn said he returned to Hong
Kong yesterday afternoon to convene the hearing.  Verdicts/Settlements  Rajaratnam Judge to Consider Amount of Money Lost in Crimes  The judge who will sentence Raj Rajaratnam for insider
trading will hold a hearing next week to determine the amount of
losses from his crimes, a court spokeswoman said.  U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell in Manhattan is set to
sentence Rajaratnam, the co-founder of Galleon Group LLC, on
Oct. 13. Rajaratnam, 54, was convicted in May on all 14 criminal
counts against him. Prosecutors said he gained $63.8 million by
trading with inside information in 11 stocks, including  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) , ATI Technologies
Inc. and  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)   Galleon earned $53.8 million in profit and avoided losses
of $9.9 million, a Federal Bureau of Investigation agent
testified at Rajaratnam’s trial. His lawyers argued in court
papers filed Sept. 9 that the government’s loss calculation,
used to support its recommendation that Rajaratnam be sentenced
to as much as 24 1/2 years in prison, “massively overstates the
seriousness of the offense.”  “In financial crime cases, the loss determination has
become the driving factor in sentence calculations,” A. Jeff
Ifrah, a lawyer in Washington who co-wrote “Federal Sentencing
for Business Crimes,” said yesterday in a phone interview.  Prosecutors have asked for a prison term of at least 19
years and seven months, calling Rajaratnam “the modern face of
illegal insider trading.” He is a central figure in Manhattan
U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara ’s crackdown on insider trading at
hedge funds.  Holwell scheduled an Oct. 4 hearing on the loss amount,
Stephanie Cirkovich, a spokeswoman for the Southern District of
New York, said yesterday in a phone interview.  Rajaratnam claims the government’s flawed loss calculation
is responsible for most of its requested prison sentence.
Federal sentencing guidelines, which are advisory, increase the
recommended term for financial crimes based on the amount of
money lost.  John Dowd, Rajaratnam’s lawyer, and  Ellen Davis , a
spokeswoman for Bharara, declined to comment on the hearing.  A federal jury in Manhattan convicted Rajaratnam on May 11
after a two-month trial in which they heard evidence that
Rajaratnam engaged in a seven-year conspiracy to trade on inside
information from corporate executives, bankers, consultants,
traders and directors of public companies.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  UBS Sues Highland Crusader for $686 Million in New York  UBS AG (UBS)  sued Highland Crusader Holding Corp. in New York
seeking damages of more than $686 million for alleged fraudulent
conveyances and tortious interference.  UBS, in a complaint filed yesterday in state court in
Manhattan, said Highland Crusader Holding Corp. is a wholly
owned subsidiary of Highland Crusader Offshore Partners LP,
which is an affiliate of Highland Capital Management LP.  UBS, Switzerland’s biggest lender, sued Highland Capital
Management in New York in June 2010, claiming the investment
firm founded by James Dondero and Mark Okada “fraudulently
induced” UBS to restructure a collateralized debt obligation
transaction in 2008. That suit followed a complaint filed by UBS
against Highland Capital Management in February 2009.  “Once Highland Capital and the fund counterparties
succeeded in misleading UBS into restructuring the original
transaction, Highland Capital and its affiliates, including
defendant Crusader Holding Corp., made it impossible for the
fund counterparties to meet their obligations to UBS,” lawyers
for the Zurich-based bank said in the complaint.  Highland Capital, founded by Dondero and Okada in Dallas in
1993, announced plans in October 2008 to close its flagship
Crusader Fund and the Highland Credit Strategies Fund over a
three-year period after suffering losses on high-yield, high-
risk loans and other types of debt.  “After numerous decisions in Highland Capital Management’s
favor, this is yet another baseless attempt to rehash identical
claims that have already been filed and heard by the courts,”
Stefan Prelog, an outside spokesman for Highland Capital, said
in an e-mailed statement. “We are disappointed and surprised
that UBS continues to pursue these frivolous actions despite
their continued setbacks.”  The case is UBS Securities LLC v. Highland Crusader Holding
Corp., 652646/2011, New York State  Supreme Court  (Manhattan).  SEC Sued Over 1998 Policy of Purging Files Linked to Probes  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission was accused in
a lawsuit by a government watchdog of illegally destroying
documents from probes of  Bernard Madoff ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington
yesterday asked a federal judge in Washington to order the
commission and its chairman, Mary Schapiro, to preserve
investigative records and attempt to recover files that were
destroyed.  “The public deserves to know all the messy details about
how these investigations were conducted, and why they were
closed at such an early stage without taking any action against
the Bernie Madoffs of the world,” Anne Weismann, the group’s
chief counsel, said in a statement.  The SEC’s data policy came under scrutiny after Darcy
Flynn, a 13-year SEC employee, claimed in a letter to U.S.
Senator Charles Grassley that the agency destroyed documents
including materials related to Goldman Sachs’s trades of
American International Group Inc. credit-default swaps in 2009,
insider-trading probes of Deutsche Bank AG, Lehman Brothers and
SAC Capital Advisors LP, and investigations of possible
financial fraud at Wells Fargo & Co. and Bank of America in 2007
and 2008.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment on the
suit.  The case is Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in
Washington v. U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, 11-cv-
01732, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  Goodrich Investors Sue to Block United Technologies Takeover  Goodrich Corp. (GR)  shareholders sued in New York state court to
block the proposed $16.5 billion takeover by  United Technologies
Corp. (UTX)  contending the price is too low.  The New Jersey Carpenters Annuity Fund sued United
Technologies and some Goodrich directors and officers Sept. 26
in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan, saying the
proposed payment is “inadequate and undervalues the company.”  United Technologies, based in Hartford, Connecticut, on
Sept. 21 said it agreed to buy Charlotte, North Carolina-based
Goodrich, adding a maker of aircraft landing gear and jet-
turbine casings to take advantage of a record surge in
commercial plane orders.  “The proposed transaction provides for no meaningful
premium to Goodrich’s public shareholders, as the consummation
of the proposed transaction will result in the complete loss of
control over the company and its prospects,” the fund said in
the complaint.  The bid represents a premium of 47 percent to Goodrich’s
closing share price on Sept. 15, the day before merger talks
were reported.  John Moran, a spokesman for United Technologies, said he
hadn’t seen the lawsuit and declined to comment on the
complaint. Lisa Bottle, a spokeswoman for Goodrich, didn’t
return a voice-mail message.  The case is New Jersey Carpenters Annuity Fund vs. Corvi,
652637/2011, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  MillerCoors Claims New England Patriots Broke Sponsorship Deal  MillerCoors LLC, the beer maker, claimed in a lawsuit that
the New England Patriots football team reneged on an exclusive
sponsorship contract to “pursue a more lucrative exclusive
agreement” with Anheuser-Busch InBev NV.  A copy of the Sept. 26 complaint in Massachusetts state
court was provided by MillerCoors. The filing couldn’t be
confirmed independently with the court.  “We negotiated in good faith with the New England Patriots
for several months, at their invitation, to become their
exclusive and official beer partner after several years of a
shared deal,” Pete Marino, a MillerCoors spokesman, said in an
e-mailed statement. “Regrettably the team has now reneged on
the deal that was reached, and we are left with no choice but to
take legal action and ask the courts to uphold the integrity of
our binding legal agreement.”  MillerCoors has been an official beer sponsor of the
National Football League team for almost 10 years, according to
the complaint. The current sponsorship deal expires in February.  “I have not seen any complaint or official filing yet, so
I wouldn’t be comfortable offering any comment,” Dan Goldberg,
a lawyer for the Patriots, said in an e-mailed statement.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Mets Ruling Pares Picard Allegations to Foremost Fraud Claim  The New York Mets’ owners may still have to pay hundreds of
millions of dollars to the trustee liquidating Bernard Madoff’s
investment firm after a judge dismissed nine of the 11 counts in
his lawsuit.  The trustee,  Irving Picard , sought $300 million in profit
and $700 million in principal from Sterling Equities Inc.
partners Fred Wilpon, Saul Katz and other defendants in the
complaint filed in Manhattan federal court.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff said yesterday he wouldn’t
decide right now if Picard could try to seize almost $300
million in profits received over the course of the Sterling
investment with Madoff, or about $83 million, representing the
last two years of Sterling’s profits before Madoff’s 2008
arrest.  Sterling said in an e-mail that the opinion limits Picard
to an attempt to recover only two years of “payments.” The
decision wasn’t specific about what the recovery of principal
would be.  It’s “not a big win for Picard but not a total loss,”
said Harvey Miller, a bankruptcy lawyer at Weil Gotshal & Manges
LLP. “He still has significant viable claims. By the same token
Wilpon and Katz have achieved a reduced exposure at least at
this stage.”  Picard is reviewing Rakoff’s decision and declined to
comment “prior to a thorough evaluation,” said Amanda Remus, a
Picard spokeswoman.  Rakoff left open the question of what time period might
apply to the recovery of profits.  “The court does not resolve on this motion whether the
Trustee can avoid as profits only what defendants received in
excess of their investment during the two year look back period
specified by section 548 or instead the excess they received
over the course of their investment with Madoff,” said a note
in Rakoff’s decision.  The judge let stand Picard’s claim that Katz and Wilpon
turned a blind eye to Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.  Picard sued the Mets owners in bankruptcy court in
December, demanding the return of what he called “fictitious”
profit and $700 million in principal taken out of the Madoff
firm by Sterling and its partners. He alleged they had
“concerns” that Madoff was conducting a fraud, even shopping
for fraud insurance, and failed in their duty to probe the
fraud.  Asking Rakoff to dismiss the suit, the Mets owners said
they “never suspected Madoff was running a Ponzi scheme or any
other fraudulent enterprise, never shopped for fraud insurance,
never thought they needed fraud insurance, and never purchased
fraud insurance” for their Madoff investments. No federal law
forces a brokerage customer to investigate his money manager,
they said.  The bankruptcy court case is Picard v. Katz, 1:10-ap-05287,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The district court case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-
03605, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  S&P, Moody’s, Fitch Win Dismissal of Ohio Pension Fund Suit  Standard & Poor’s,  Moody’s Corp. (MCO)  and Fitch Inc. won
dismissal of a lawsuit alleging their ratings of mortgage-backed
securities were faulty and caused five Ohio public employee
pension funds to buy money-losing investments.  Former Ohio Attorney General  Richard Cordray  filed the suit
in 2009, accusing the three companies of making “spectacularly
misleading evaluations” of the securities because of what they
were paid by the issuers.  U.S. District Judge James L. Graham in Columbus threw out
the case Sept. 26, agreeing with the firms that the ratings were
predictive opinions. Without specific allegations of intent to
defraud, the companies couldn’t be held liable, he said.  “The Ohio funds make a bare allegation that the ratings
agencies knew or should have known that their ratings were false
or misleading,” Graham wrote. “But a complaint must provide
further factual enhancement to avoid dismissal.”  Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine, who replaced Cordray, is
disappointed in the ruling and discussing further moves in the
case with the pension funds, his spokesman, Mark Moretti, said.  Cordray has been nominated to head the new federal Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau.  Michael Adler, a spokesman for Moody’s said the company
“is pleased that the court has dismissed all of the claims in
this matter.”  Ed Sweeney , a spokesman for S&P, said his company was also
pleased it succeeded in getting the case dismissed.  Daniel
Noonan , a Fitch spokesman, said he couldn’t comment right away.  The case is Ohio Police & Fire Pension Fund v. Standard &
Poor’s Financial Services LLC, 09-cv-01054, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Ohio (Columbus).  Judge Won’t Dismiss Lehman Brokerage’s Claim Against RBS  A bankruptcy judge refused to dismiss a $346 million claim
by  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s brokerage against  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , saying he would “retain jurisdiction to
hear and determine all matters” arising from his order.  Royal Bank asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck in
Manhattan to dismiss the claim. Alternatively, it asked him to
put on hold the brokerage’s move to gather information to pursue
its demand while Royal Bank waits for a district judge to decide
whether to shift the case out of bankruptcy court. Peck rejected
all of the bank’s requests, according to an order filed in court
yesterday.  ABN Amro, now owned by Royal Bank, owes the money, plus
interest, to  Lehman Brothers Inc . for early termination of a
1998 swap agreement, the brokerage said in a June filing in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan. Royal Bank argued it has a right
to set off the funds against amounts it’s owed by the brokerage
and its affiliates.  Pholida Phengsomphone, a spokeswoman in Connecticut for
Edinburgh-based Royal Bank, declined to comment on the judge’s
order.  Lehman Brothers Inc., the remnants of the brokerage not
bought by  Barclays Plc (BARC) , is being separately liquidated from its
parent, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. It is seeking money from
banks it did business with to pay its remaining customers.  The Lehman parent filed the largest bankruptcy in U.S.
history on Sept. 15, 2008. The brokerage went into liquidation
four days later.  The brokerage bankruptcy case is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Sabre Asks Court to Toss American Airlines Antitrust Claim  Sabre Holdings Corp., the largest U.S. provider of flight
data to travel agents, asked a U.S. judge to throw out American
Airlines’ claim that it runs a monopoly, citing a ruling in a  US
Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  lawsuit.  Sabre, in a letter Sept. 25, asked Fort Worth, Texas,
federal Judge Terry Means to follow a Manhattan judge who, it
said, found Sabre couldn’t exercise monopoly power over a market
limited to travel agents using its service.  U.S. District Judge Miriam Goldman Cedarbaum on Sept. 12
threw out two of four antitrust claims in the US Airways case.  Cedarbaum “ruled that a Sabre-only market was not
plausible on its face,” because a company can’t monopolize its
own customers, Sabre attorney Don Scott wrote in the letter.  The lawsuits are at the heart of a dispute between U.S.
carriers and so-called global distribution systems like Sabre
that collect flight and fare data from carriers and distribute
it to travel agents.  The airlines want greater control over dissemination of
their data, including providing it directly to agencies that
consumers use to plan and buy travel.  American, a unit of Fort Worth-based  AMR Corp. (AMR) , initially
sued Travelport LLC, the second biggest U.S-based global
distribution systems company, on antitrust claims. It added
Southlake, Texas-based Sabre to the suit in June. Sabre and
Travelport, based in Atlanta, control more than 90 percent of
U.S. data distribution to travel agents.  “We do not believe that the decision by a New York judge
is, in any way, dispositive of any of our claims,” Ryan
Mikolasik, a spokesman for American, said in an e-mail. “We
remain confident that we will prevail on the facts and merits of
our claims.”  The Fort Worth case is American Airlines Inc. v. Travelport
Ltd., 11-cv-00244, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Texas (Fort Worth).  The Manhattan case is U.S. Airways Inc. v. Sabre Holdings
Corp., 11-cv-02725, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials  Health-Care Law Has Precedent, Retired Justice Stevens Says  Retired Justice John Paul Stevens said a 2005 U.S. Supreme
Court ruling involving medical marijuana provides legal support
for President Barack Obama’s health-care law.  Stevens, now 91 and more than a year into retirement, said
in an interview in Washington this week that he is skeptical
about contentions that Congress lacked authority to pass the
health-care measure, which requires Americans to either buy
insurance or pay a penalty.  Stevens wrote the court’s opinion in the 2005 case, a 6-3
ruling that let the federal government ban marijuana even when
the drug doesn’t cross state lines and is used only for
medicinal purposes. As with health care, that case centered on
Congress’s power to regulate interstate commerce.  “To the extent that the commerce clause is an issue in the
case, it just seems to me very similar” to the medical
marijuana dispute, said Stevens, who served on the court for 34
years. Stevens is holding interviews with reporters to promote
his book,  “Five Chiefs,”  which describes his impressions of
the last five chief justices and is scheduled to be released
next week.  The Obama administration this week signaled it will file a
Supreme Court appeal on health care, saying it will forgo
further appeals-court review in a lawsuit pressed by 26 states
opposing the law. Stevens said he hadn’t read any briefs in the
case.  For more, click here.  Tax-Shelter Dispute Will Get Hearing From U.S. Supreme Court  The U.S. Supreme Court agreed to hear an appeal in a
federal tax-shelter case that may reshape the regulatory powers
of the Internal Revenue Service.  The case will let the justices clear up lower court
disagreement over the amount of time the IRS has to challenge a
shelter that was popular in the late 1990s and early 2000s. The
technique, known as “Son-of-BOSS,” was used to cut as much as
$6 billion from tax bills, according to IRS estimates.  The IRS says it should have six years to act against Son-
of-BOSS shelters, rather than the three-year period that applies
in other contexts. The tax agency says the extra three years are
crucial because of the complex, hard-to-detect nature of the
shelters.  “The IRS’s ability to assess additional income tax often
depends on the availability of the six-year assessment period,”
the Obama administration  argued  in court papers.  The high court’s ruling may have broader implications as
well, determining how much flexibility the IRS has to adapt to
new tax-avoidance strategies. One issue in the case is the
effect of an IRS regulation that retroactively declared the six-
year period to be the applicable rule for Son-of-BOSS cases.  The disputed shelters were designed to artificially inflate
the cost basis of an asset so that taxpayers claimed little or
no capital gains when they sold it. Taxpayers often used
partnerships and short sales, trades that typically are bets
that the price of an asset will fall.  The question for the high court is whether basis inflation
is covered under a statutory provision that gives the IRS six
years to act against taxpayers who omit “gross income” from a
return.  The case, which the justices will hear in the nine-month
term that formally starts next week, is United States v. Home
Concrete & Supply, 11-139.  For more, click here.  Obama Lawyers Signal Supreme Court Appeal on Health Care  The Obama administration signaled it will seek U.S. Supreme
Court consideration of the landmark health-care overhaul in a
move that may lead to a ruling in the middle of the 2012
presidential race.  The Justice Department said Sept. 26 it will forgo further
review at the federal appeals court that declared the law
unconstitutional in August. The administration has until mid-
November to file an appeal with the Supreme Court.  A Supreme Court ruling striking down parts of the law would
transform the campaign, forcing the candidates to refashion
their messages, said William Carrick, a Democratic campaign
consultant. A decision would probably come in late June, at the
end of the court’s nine-month term.  “They would really send the political debate in a whole
new direction,” Carrick said.  President Barack Obama is trying to resolve the legal
issues on his watch, said Alex Castellanos, a Republican
consultant. “This is not politics,” he said. “This is
governing.”  The government had until Sept. 26 to seek a new hearing
before a larger panel of judges at the Atlanta-based appeals
court. Tracy Schmaler, a Justice Department spokeswoman, said
the U.S. won’t take that step and declined to say whether the
government would file a Supreme Court appeal.  The “clearest inference” is that the administration will
seek high court review, said Carter Phillips, a Washington
lawyer who has argued 71 Supreme Court cases and isn’t involved
in the health-care litigation. And with federal appeals courts
divided -- another court upheld the law and a third said courts
don’t yet have authority to get involved -- Supreme Court
consideration this term is “about as close to 100 percent as
you can get,” said Phillips, a partner at Sidley Austin LLP.  The health law would expand coverage to an estimated 32
million Americans who lack insurance, largely through an
expansion of the federal-state Medicaid program and so-called
exchanges, in which consumers will be able to buy insurance. The
law requires insurers to accept people with pre-existing
conditions.  The challenges to the law, including a lawsuit being
pressed by 26 states, say Congress exceeded its constitutional
power by requiring people to either acquire insurance or pay a
penalty.  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 