-- 
Rand Gains for Fourth Day on Recovery Bets, Higher-Yield Trade

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-09-28T14:44:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/rand-gains-for-fourth-day-on-recovery-bets-higher-yield-trade.html
The rand extended its rally against
the dollar to a fourth day, reversing earlier losses, after a
report showed U.S. capital goods orders rose the most in three
months, boosting speculation  demand for  South Africa ’s
commodity exports will pick up.  “The ‘global growth’ currencies, and the rand is one of
them, are outperforming today,”  Benoit Anne , the London-based
head of emerging-market strategy at Societe Generale SA, said by
e-mail in response to questions by Bloomberg.  The rand advanced 0.2 percent to 7.8442 per dollar at 4:39
p.m. in Johannesburg, after weakening as much as 0.8 percent.
Against the euro, South  Africa ’s currency climbed 0.2 percent to
10.6635.  American orders for goods like computers and communications
gear, excluding military hardware and aircraft, climbed in
August, a sign business investment is supporting the recovery.
Speculation policy makers worldwide will keep borrowing costs on
hold and that Greece will avert a default helped support demand
for the currency.  The  European Central Bank  will leave borrowing costs on
hold at least for the remainder of 2011 amid a sovereign debt
crisis that’s threatening to push the 17-nation euro region into
recession, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists. The
 Federal Reserve  has pledged to keep its benchmark lending rate
near zero for an extended time, and started moving $400 million
of Treasury holdings into longer-dated bonds to push down long-
term interest rates.  “A benign interest-rate environment in developed markets
for a longer period of time” should “benefit the rand as
liquidity will be channeled toward high-yielding economies,”
 John Cairns  and Nema Ramkhelawan-Bhana, currency strategists at
Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said in a research note.  Net Buyers  The extra yield investors receive for buying South African
10-year debt over U.S. Treasuries was 6.14 percentage points
today. The spread has narrowed from a record 6.53 percentage
points on Sept. 22. Foreign investors were net buyers of 41.5
billion rand ($5.3 billion) of South African bonds this year,
according to the JSE. Ltd.  The rand’s gain tracked the euro’s advance to a one-week
high against the dollar as European leaders signaled they will
do what is necessary to aid debt-stricken nations including
 Greece . The EU proposed a financial-transactions tax to take
effect in 2014 and  Finland ’s parliament approved an expansion to
the region’s rescue fund.  Room for Optimism  “There is still some room to be optimistic in the short to
medium term that an outright default event can be avoided,”
Tradition Analytics researchers led by Johannesburg-based
Quinten Bertenshaw said in a research note. “The markets are
becoming a little more inclined to price this in.”  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its 2011 growth
estimate for the global economy on Sept. 20 to 4 percent from
4.3 percent, and reduced the forecast for 2012 to 4 percent from
4.5 percent. The Washington-based lender predicted “severe”
fallout should  Europe  fail to contain the debt crisis.  Declines in emerging-market currencies are overdone and
they may recover as risk appetite improves, South African
 reserve Bank  Governor Gill Marcus said in an opinion article
published in Johannesburg-based Financial Mail today.  The rand’s advance helps keep prices on imported goods in
check, giving the central bank more leeway to cut  interest rates 
to bolster Africa’s biggest economy.  The 13.5 percent bonds due 2015 climbed 12 cents to 122.61
rand, driving the yield down four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 6.87 percent, the lowest since Sept. 21.  “A sustained stabilization in the currency will likely
prompt a 50-basis-points cut by the Reserve Bank in their last
meeting of the year” in November BNP Paribas SA analysts led by
London-based Bartosz Pawlowksi wrote in an e-mailed comment.  Forward-rate agreements starting after the November policy
meeting dropped to one basis point to 5.3 percent today, a
record low, as investors bet on an increased chance of a rate
cut this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  