-- 
Rare Earths Fall as Toyota Develops Alternatives: Commodities

-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 
2011-09-28T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/rare-earths-fall-as-toyota-develops-alternatives-commodities.html
Rare-earth prices are set to extend
their decline from records this year as buyers including  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)  scale back using the
materials in their cars and windmills.  Prices for cerium and lanthanum, the most abundant rare-
earth elements, will drop by 50 percent in 12 months,
Christopher Ecclestone, an analyst at Hallgarten & Co. in  New
York , has forecast. Neodymium and praseodymium, metals used in
permanent rare-earth magnets, may fall as much as 15 percent, he
said.  Makers of electric cars, wind turbines and oil-refining
catalysts have sought to reduce use of the metals after China,
which supplies more than 90 percent of the market, said in July
2010 that it would cut exports and clamp down on the industry.
That boosted prices, encouraging mining companies to develop new
prospects and buyers to find alternatives.  “If you think you can keep raising the prices for those
materials and still keep your customers, you’re crazy,” Jack Lifton, co-founder of Technology Metals Research, said in a
telephone interview. “The principal customer for rare-earth
metals is a global automotive industry using rare-earth
permanent magnets. That industry will engineer this stuff out.”  Declines in August and September pared a five-month,
fourfold surge that brought the average price for eight of the
most widely used rare-earth oxides to a record 396,850 yuan
($62,068) a metric ton in July, data from consultant  Shanghai
Steelhome Information  show. The average price declined 13
percent from its July peak as of Sept. 27.  ‘Demand Destruction’  Rare earths have been pushed lower because of selling by
speculators, Michael Gambardella, a New York-based analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a report last week. Tsunami-
related disruptions in  Japan  and dumping of unpermitted material
in  China  have undercut prices, while industrial substitution has
driven “demand destruction,” said Sam Berridge, a Sydney-based
analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  “A greater focus on recycling and substitution,
particularly by Japanese consumers, has resulted in tightness of
demand easing somewhat for the lighter rare earths,” Berridge
said by phone.  Rising prices for the so-called light metals, such as
neodymium and lanthanum, have prompted automakers including
Toyota,  Asia ’s biggest automaker, to look at reducing the use of
relatively powerful and expensive rare-earth magnets in their
vehicles. Some  Toyota vehicles  will be built with an induction
motor, which doesn’t use rare-earth magnets, said  John Hanson , a
Toyota spokesman in Torrance,  California .  ‘Huge Savings’  “Moving from a fixed-magnet motor to an induction motor is
a huge savings with regard to rare-earth metals,” Hanson said by
phone.  “The Japanese are leading the push to replace, reduce and
recycle their rare-earths consumption,” said Dudley Kingsnorth,
chief executive officer of Perth-based advisory Industrial
Minerals Co. of  Australia . “Users are recycling rare earths
wherever they can, using them more efficiently, particularly in
the magnet industry where they are producing powerful magnets
with smaller volumes.”  General Motors Co. (GM) , the largest U.S. automaker, plans to
sell a Chevrolet Malibu Eco next year that uses an induction
motor, and otherwise cut down on magnets that use a lot of rare
earths.  ‘Economic Alternative’  “The magnets are like God’s gift to electric motors,”
Pete Savagian, GM’s chief engineer for electric motors, said in
a telephone interview. “But we don’t always need that level of
magnet. Even at prices we saw three and four years ago, there’s
a more economic alternative, albeit at slightly less efficient
outcome.”  The largest portion of demand for rare earths, one third,
comes from generating electricity, according to Bloomberg
Industries.  In August, GE announced the development of wind-turbine
generators that will reduce dependence on the rare-earth
materials prevalent in so-called permanent-magnet machines. Some
current offshore  wind turbines  may contain as much as half a ton
of the metals, according to Bloomberg Industries analysis.  “Everybody is going back to the drawing board and trying
to redesign their generators to minimize the usage of permanent
magnets,” said Steve Duclos, chief scientist and manager of
material sustainability for GE Global Research. “In all of our
businesses we’re looking to reduce our usage.”  Gasoline Refining  W.R. Grace & Co. began selling this year an oil-refining
catalyst with reduced lanthanum, a rare earth that has increased
in price more than fourfold in the past year. Lanthanum improves
the amount of gasoline refiners can extract from crude oil and
is also used in hybrid-car batteries.  Half of the company’s customers had switched to the new
formula, which offers the same performance and gives them
“double-digit type percent decreases in their cost,” Grace
Chief Financial Officer Hudson La Force III said on a conference
call this month.  The development doesn’t worry  Mark Smith , CEO of  Molycorp
Inc. (MCP) , owner of the largest rare-earth deposit outside China.  Fluid-cracking catalysts have “always been one of the
largest single markets for any of the individual rare earths,”
Smith said in an interview at Bloomberg headquarters in New
York. “We don’t see that deteriorating in any significant
form.”  New Mines  While rare-earth prices have fallen, demand will outpace
supplies even with new mines in California and Australia
expected to come online in 2014, Smith said.  “Like any market, you’re going to see up and down in the
course of a month or two,” Smith said. “But the overall trend
remains short supply, heavy demand.”  The ability to substitute many rare-earth applications will
be limited, said Constantine Karayannopoulos, CEO of  Neo
Material Technologies Inc. (NEM) , a Toronto-based producer of rare-
earth magnets.  “All kinds of folks are trying to use alternative
technologies,” he said by phone. “Longer-term, don’t expect
these technologies to be in place this quarter or the next.”  GE’s Duclos says he has little doubt companies will find
substitutes, sooner or later.  “It will depend on the element, it will depend on the
usage, but getting 10-20 percent efficiencies out of the usage
of an element is not that terribly difficult,” Duclos said.
“What I don’t subscribe to is this idea that there’s nothing we
can do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 Selmquist1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 