-- 
REC Considers Permanently Closing Some Norway Production

-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 
2011-09-28T16:15:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/rec-may-permanently-shut-some-norway-production-on-price-slump.html
Renewable Energy Corp. ASA will
seek to permanently close parts of its solar energy-component
production capacity in  Norway  after a slump in prices for solar
wafers and cells.  Talks will start with employee representatives on shutting
the multicrystalline-wafer plant in Glomfjord, several such
plants at Heroeya and the solar-cell plant at Narvik, the
Sandvika, Norway-based company said today. The move will reduce
the company’s Norwegian annual wafer capacity by 775 megawatts,
or 45 percent, and cut cell capacity by 180 megawatts.  “This is an unfortunate, but necessary step in the current
market environment,” Chief Executive Officer Ole Enger said in
a statement. “We’re currently working hard to regain the
competitiveness of our remaining Norwegian operations.”  Estimates for costs and write downs for the closures will
be presented in the third-quarter results, the company said.  The closures would affect about 700 employees and make
permanent a temporary shutdown announced on May 24 in an
industry struggling with oversupply. Demand for solar-energy
components has weakened as European regulators cut subsidies,
leading to an oversupply of wafers and modules.  ‘Positive’ Move  “The fact that REC takes action and closes down
uncompetitive capacity is positive,” Eirik Vegem Dahle and Per Kristian Reppe, analysts at Pareto Securities ASA, said today in
a note.  “Most of this capacity has already been temporarily
curtailed due to high cost levels, and a permanent close is no
surprise.”  The Norwegian government has no plans to buy the stake in
REC that Orkla ASA is seeking to sell, Industry Minister Trond Giske said today in an interview. Ruling coalition
parliamentarians said Norway should look at buying REC and
Borregaard, newspaper Klassekampen reported Sept. 21.  The shares rose as much as 0.5 following the announcement
and then fell after German power grid regulator,
Bundesnetzagentur, said that solar panel installations in the
world’s biggest solar market slumped 69 percent from a year
earlier.  REC shares fell 12 percent to 5.74 in Oslo trading, while
Solarworld AG fell 7.7 percent and Q-Cells SE 4.4 percent in
 Frankfurt .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  