-- 
Red Sox Vie With Rays, Braves Tie Cardinals for Playoff Spots on Final Day

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-09-28T04:39:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/red-sox-vie-with-rays-braves-tie-cardinals-for-playoff-spots-on-final-day.html
Major League Baseball ’s two wild-
card playoff places remain unclaimed entering the final day of
the regular season.  The Boston  Red Sox  and Tampa Bay Rays are tied for the
American League’s place with 90-71 marks, while the Atlanta
Braves and  St. Louis  Cardinals are locked together with 89-72
records in the National League.  The Red Sox last night beat the Baltimore Orioles 8-7 to
improve to 7-19 in September, while the Rays kept pace with a 5-
3 win over the  New York Yankees .  The Red Sox held a 1 1/2-game lead over the Yankees atop
the AL East on Aug. 31 and were nine games ahead of the Rays. No
team has held a lead that size for a playoff spot entering
September and not made the postseason, according to the Elias
Sports Bureau. Of the 17 times the Red Sox began September in
first place, they’ve made the postseason 15 times, missing only
in 1978 and 1948.  “It’s really good for baseball, not so good for my
stomach,” Red Sox manager Terry Francona told reporters. “My
goodness, I can’t remember being that nervous in a long time.”  The Braves dropped into a tie for first place in the NL
wild-card standings with the Cardinals after a 7-1 loss to the
 Philadelphia Phillies , their 12th defeat in 17 games. The
Cardinals downed the Houston Astros 13-6.  If the Red Sox and Rays are still tied after today, a one-
game playoff for the AL wild card spot will begin tomorrow at
4:07 p.m. at Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg,  Florida .  The same day, a one-game playoff will take place to decide
the NL wild-card team if the Braves and Cardinals remain tied.
That game would start at 8:07 p.m. eastern time at Busch Stadium
in St. Louis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  