-- 
Reebok Pays $25 Million to Settle FTC Claims of False Ads for Toning Shoes

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n ,   P e g g y   F i s k   a n d   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-09-28T21:05:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/reebok-to-pay-25m-in-refunds-to-settle-ftc.html
Reebok  International Ltd. agreed to
pay $25 million to resolve government allegations it made false
claims that its so-called toning shoes helped strengthen leg and
buttock muscles.  The settlement with the Federal Trade Commission covers
advertising starting in 2009 for Reebok’s EasyTone walking shoes
and flip flops and RunTone running shoes. The agency said the
ads made unsupported claims that walking in EasyTone footwear
was “proven” to tone buttocks 28 percent more than other
sneakers and build calf muscles by 11 percent more.  “We spent a lot of time examining the evidence the company
put forward and found it wanting,” said  David Vladeck , head of
the FTC’s Bureau of Consumer Protection, during a news
conference today in Washington. “This settlement is also to
remind advertisers big and small that they must have adequate
proof before making claims.”  The toning athletic shoe category grew to $1 billion in
sales in 2010 before dropping off this year as retailers and
shoemakers were forced to slash prices after demand fell.
Skechers USA Inc. led the market with its Shape-ups, followed by
Reebok’s EasyTone brand. Sales of toning shoes in the U.S. may
drop about 40 percent this year to $600 million, according to
researcher SportsOneSource.  Settlement Terms  The settlement prohibits Reebok, a unit of Herzogenaurach,
Germany-based  Adidas AG (ADS) , from making any more unsubstantiated
assertions regarding toning benefits of its footwear, the agency
said. The FTC set up a website for consumers that explains how
to seek a refund for the shoes covered by the lawsuit.  Sneaker maker Skechers also has been contacted by the FTC
over claims that its Shape-ups shoes have toning benefits, the
company said in an August filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Skechers, based in  Manhattan Beach ,  California , said in the
filing it was responding to the FTC’s requests and would “
defend the company’s position,” if needed. Leonard Armato,
president of Skechers USA Fitness Group that includes the Shape-
ups brand, said today the company doesn’t comment on legal
proceedings.  The FTC’s Vladeck declined to comment on whether other shoe
companies are being probed for similar advertising.  Bigger Number  “If this is pointing in Skecher’s direction, the number
could be bigger for them,” said Sam Poser, a New York-based
retail analyst for Sterne Agee & Leach Inc., who has an
“underperform” rating on Skechers, in a telephone interview.  Adidas fell 0.97 euros, or 2 percent, to 48.22 euros in
Frankfurt trading. Skechers fell 36 cents, or 2.4 percent, to
$14.72 in  New York  trading.  “We stand behind our EasyTone technology -- the first shoe
in the toning category that was inspired by balance-ball
training,” Reebok spokesman Dan Sarro said in an e-mailed
statement today. “Settling does not mean we agree with the
FTC’s allegations; we do not.”  Reebok, based in Canton,  Massachusetts , said it will
continue to develop the EasyTone product line.  “It’s not that important to their business anymore as
they’ve come out with more running products,” Sterne Agee &
Leach’s Poser said.  The case is Federal Trade Commission v. Reebok
International Ltd., 1:11-cv-02046, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of  Ohio  ( Cleveland ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan , at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net .;
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net  