-- 
Rejecting Skilled Workers ‘National Suicide,’ Bloomberg Says

-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 
2011-09-28T14:46:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/rejecting-skilled-workers-national-suicide-bloomberg-says.html
The U.S. needs to allow more visas
to help the economy and should let highly skilled engineers who
study in U.S. universities stay in the country, New York Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg  said today in  Washington .  Turning away skilled workers is “national suicide,”
Bloomberg said in remarks before the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.
The U.S. will be unable to compete if it doesn’t attract talent
globally, he said.  The Chamber called the session to discuss how U.S.
immigration laws should be changed to make the U.S. more
competitive. Democrats and Republicans need to find ways to work
together on immigration, Bloomberg said.  “The American dream cannot survive if we tell the dreamers
to go elsewhere,” he said.  Bloomberg has pushed for easing U.S. visa and citizenship
requirements for foreign students and entrepreneurs, and he
favors giving more than 10 million illegal immigrants a chance
to become lawful residents.  Last year, he joined mayors and business leaders, including
News Corp. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch 
and Microsoft Corp. CEO Steven Ballmer to create the Partnership
for a New American Economy. The group seeks “to raise awareness
of the economic benefits of sensible immigration reform,”
according to its website.  The immigration debate has been pushed to the background
since President  Barack Obama  took office in January 2009 and
said an overhaul was a priority.  Overcoming ‘Misinformation’  “We need to overcome misinformation,”  Tom Donohue , the
president and chief executive officer of the U.S. Chamber, the
largest U.S. business lobby, said before Bloomberg’s remarks.  While immigration can boost economic growth,  many
Americans are concerned that jobs will be taken from U.S.
citizens, he said. The U.S. needs to ensure that doctors and
engineers who are educated in the U.S. stay to foster
innovation, he said.  With efforts to reach agreement on broader immigration
changes stalled, Obama signed a $600 million border-security law
last year. It provided funding to hire 1,500 Border Patrol,
Customs and other agents along the border with  Mexico .  Lawmakers fell short in December 2010 in efforts to provide
legal status for certain younger immigrants.  The legislation known as the Dream Act would let people who
were brought to the U.S. illegally before age 16 and remained
for at least five years gain legal residency after going to
college or serving in the military for at least two years.  Mayor Bloomberg is the founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  