-- 
BP Says India Must End Gas-Price Controls to Attract Investment

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-09-28T12:31:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/reliance-holders-press-ambani-bp-s-dudley-to-seek-higher-gas-india-price.html
India needs to move toward ending
controls on natural gas prices to encourage investments in
offshore energy exploration,  BP Plc (BP/)  Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Dudley  said.  “In general, deepwater requires a lot of capital, it’s a
lot of risk,” Dudley told reporters in New Delhi today. “You
obviously need to develop mechanisms that’ll create the rewards
for all that risk. Over time, free-market systems are what any
economy needs to be able to ensure efficient development.”  BP completed a $7.2 billion acquisition of a 30 percent
stake in 21 fields operated by  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) ,
including KG-D6, the country’s largest gas deposit. The
companies have applied to the government to develop new areas in
the block to reverse a slump in gas production from the main
reservoir, Dudley said.  Dudley and Reliance’s billionaire Chairman  Mukesh Ambani 
met Oil Minister S. Jaipal Reddy and Commerce Minister  Anand Sharma  in  New Delhi  today. They may meet Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  and Dudley will likely call on Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , the Economic Times reported.  Production plans in the new areas haven’t been approved by
Indian regulators, a person with direct knowledge of the matter
said last week. Tests show that increasing output from existing
fields may be unviable at current prices, the person said.  “D6 is a golden block, it’s a great resource in India,”
Dudley said. “We’re working with the government now for
additional approvals. We’re hoping by 2014 the gas production
will go back up again.”  U.K. Gas Price  Reliance sells gas from the block off  India ’s east coast at
less than half the price in the U.K. The government set the
price of the fuel from the KG-D6 area at $4.2 per million
British thermal units in 2007 and is scheduled to revise it in
April 2014. The Mumbai-based company sought a rate of $4.5 per
million Btu at the time.  U.K. gas prices for October fell 0.3 percent at 58 pence a
therm as of 10 a.m. in London. That’s equal to $9.07 a million
British thermal units.  Profit at Reliance has missed analysts’ forecasts for six
of the last seven quarters and its shares have slumped 25
percent this year as gas production fell. Decisions by India’s
cabinet have slowed after a minister, bureaucrats and company
officials were jailed over corruption charges related to
cellular phone licenses.  Prices need to be increased to cover deepwater drilling and
pipeline costs, said Chokkalingam G., chief investment officer
at Mumbai-based Centrum Wealth Management Ltd., which owns
Reliance shares.  Free Pricing  “Free pricing of commodities, including gas, is essential
and the government needs to slowly move toward that process,”
Chokkalingam said by telephone. “That will attract more global
companies to invest in India, increase production and achieve
demand to meet the economic growth targets.”  Tests by Reliance have shown that gas-bearing layers of
sand in the two main producing areas of the block are thinner
than initially estimated and extraction may require costlier
drilling techniques, the person familiar with the company’s
plans said last week.  Satellite fields in the KG-D6 block and discoveries known
as the R-Series together have the potential to produce as much
as 35 million cubic meters a day of gas, the person said. The
block produced 60 million cubic meters in June 2010.  The decline in gas production, which is currently less than
45 million cubic meters a day, is likely to have a modest impact
on the company’s financial health, Moody’s Investors Service
said today.  BP’s Role  Having BP as its partner will provide Reliance with the
technical expertise it may need to overcome operational
challenges, Vikas Halan, a vice president at Moody’s in  Hong
Kong , said in a note.  BP is seeking to get access to the “fast-growing Indian
gas markets,” Dudley said Feb. 21, when the deal with Reliance
was announced. The investment by BP will accelerate development
and production from Reliance’s fields, Ambani said the same day.  “BP is working in India now for things that will be
developed in 20 years,” said  Christine Tiscareno , an equity
analyst at  Standard & Poor’s  in  London . “India is important for
BP. Gas consumption is growing very fast, maybe faster than
 China ’s.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  