-- 
Repsol Seeking to Oust Pemex, Sacyr From Board After Pact

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 
2011-09-29T16:42:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/repsol-moves-to-expel-sacyr-pemex-from-board-after-sealing-pact.html
Repsol YPF SA (REP)  Chairman Antonio Brufau moved to oust representatives of two of the biggest
investors from the board after they formed an alliance aimed at
curbing his power and changing the  oil company ’s strategy.  Repsol, based in Madrid, changed its rules to prevent
competitors from holding positions on its board after the
agreement between  Sacyr Vallehermoso SA (SYV)  and Mexican state-owned
oil company Petroleos Mexicanos, Repsol said in a regulatory
filing yesterday. Sacyr and Pemex, as the Mexico City-based
company is known, said they would challenge the decision.  Anyone will be barred who has “a significant stake or
holds a management position in a competitor or another concerted
company,” according to an amendment to Repsol’s board rules
after a meeting in  Madrid . The board also endorsed the
management of Brufau, who is also chief executive officer.  Brufau is fighting to retain control of Spain’s biggest oil
company after Sacyr, the largest investor with a 20 percent
stake, and Pemex, which owns almost 10 percent, said they want
the company to split the roles of CEO and chairman and focus on
its oil business to boost returns.  Repsol shares dropped 0.1 percent to 19.92 euros in Madrid.  Joint Statement  The Repsol board “attempted to deny the rights” of Pemex
and Sacyr at yesterday’s meeting, the shareholders said in a
joint statement. “They were denied the most basic information
on the basis of a non-existent conflict of interests.”  Spain’s power regulator allowed  Petroleos Mexicanos  to keep
its increased stake in Repsol, without requesting permission for
its recent share purchases, the group said today in an emailed
statement.  Sacyr Chairman Luis del Rivero, who is also vice chairman
of Repsol, may be forced out of the board as a result of the
changes unless he can win an exemption in a vote by other
shareholders.  The benefits for Pemex of a closer cooperation with Repsol
YPF  will be worth $4.27 billion, the Mexico City-based company
said in a filing to Spanish regulators Sept. 21. Increasing its
stake in the Spanish oil company will help Pemex take on
“highly complex” projects and deep-water drilling, the company
said.  ‘Worst Possible Road’  “If Pemex wanted to get access to more deep-water
technology, skills or experience, it took the worst possible
road,” George Baker, a Houston-based energy consultant, said in
a telephone interview. “ Oil companies  do not work that way,
having more shares doesn’t translate into more influence.”  By alienating Repsol’s top management, Pemex is further
from its goal of obtaining experience and technology from them,
Baker said. “They should have invested in projects, not in
stakes in the holding companies,” he said.  Del Rivero revealed a split with Brufau in 2009 when he
called on the company to boost dividends. Sacyr financed its
investment in Repsol with a 4.9 billion-euro ($6.7 billion) loan
that must be refinanced by December.  Repsol, which gets most of its revenue from oil production,
also has a stake of about 30 percent in Barcelona-based  Gas
Natural SDG SA (GAS) ,  Spain ’s biggest gas supplier. Repsol jointly
controls Gas Natural through an agreement with  La Caixa , which
has 35 percent.  The Mexican oil company expects to boost the success of
exploration projects from 38 percent in 2010 to about 40 percent
with the help of Repsol, according to a company presentation.  “The idea that a board seat would give you the deep-water
skills you need, it’s a dream,” Baker said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net 
Carlos M. Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  