-- 
Richemont, McDonald’s, Crown, Singtel: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-09-28T11:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/richemont-mcdonald-s-crown-u-k-singtel-snowman-intellectual-property.html
Compagnie Financiere Richemont SA’s
Cartier unit was compensated by Chinese companies following a
trademark infringement ruling by the  Shanghai  No. 1 Intermediate
People’s Court, the  Shanghai Daily  reported.  The suit was related to Foshan Mingkuyn Ceramics Co.’s and
Kingsyomna Ceramic Co’s ceramic products sold in Shanghai
containing Cartier trademarks without authorization, according
to the newspaper.  The marks were also used in ads and brochures for the
ceramic products, according to the Shanghai Daily.  Cartier was awarded 500,000  Chinese yuan  ($78,000) and the
court ruled that the Cartier marks were entitled to protection
and deliberately infringed, the newspaper reported.  McDonald’s Asks USPTO to Refuse ‘Jus’ Mac’ Trademark Application  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) ’s opposition to a Texas restaurant’s
trademark application must receive an answer by Oct. 3,
according to a filing with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  The Oakbrook, Illinois-based restaurant chain is attempting
to block an application filed in December 2010 by a restaurant
from Houston,  Texas , to register “Jus’ Mac” as a trademark.  McDonald’s, the world’s largest restaurant chain, said that
15 of its trademarks could be affected negatively if the
Houston-based restaurant is permitted to register “Jus’ Mac.”
Additionally, McDonald’s said it’s used “other ‘Mc’ and ‘Mac’
formative trademarks” that have caused consumers to associate
it with trademarks “distinguished by the ‘Mac’ formative.”  Potential purchasers, upon seeing the Houston restaurant’s
‘Jus’ Mac” mark used with restaurant services, are likely to
make the mistaken assumption that some affiliation exists
between the two entities, McDonald’s argued in its filing. This
would tarnish the McDonald’s marks, the chain contends.  McDonald’s is represented in this action by  Robert E.
Browne ,  John A. Cullis ,  Lawrence E. James Jr.  and  Kathleen E.
Blouin  of  Chicago ’s  Neal Gerber & Eisenberg LLP .  Crown Halts U.K. Trademark Application After Crown Bingo Objects  Crown Ltd. (CWN) ’s Crown Casino unit has abandoned its attempt to
register its trademark in the U.K. following objections from the
U.K.’s  Crown Bingo , EGaming Review  reported .  The Australian company, the largest casino operator in the
southern hemisphere, sought to register the mark for “the
provision of gaming and casino services over a global computer
network,” according to EGaming Review.  Crown Bingo, of Newcastle-upon-Tyne, said it would continue
to oppose any attempt by the Australian company to use its brand
in the U.K., the magazine reported.  “We’ve spent many millions on building the Crown brand in
the U.K. and we don’t see why Crown Casino should benefit from
that,” Ian Erskine, Crown Bingo’s operations director told
EGaming Review.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Rights Registry Loses Healy to Copyright Clearance Center  The former executive director-designate at an entity set up
to compensate copyright owners under an infringement suit
against  Google Inc. (GOOG)  has left to join the  Copyright Clearance
Center .  Michael Healy was to head the Book Rights Registry, set up
as part of a settlement of the 2005 copyright infringement suit
the Authors Guild filed against Google over its book-
digitization project.  That settlement was rejected in March by U.S. Circuit Judge
Denny Chin, who said it was unfair to authors. The court was
told Sept. 15 that progress is being made in new settlement
discussions.  Healy is to become the executive director of author and
publisher relations for the Danvers, Massachusetts-based CCC,
according to an e-mailed company statement. He will develop new
products in service to the author and publisher communities,
addressing such issues as e-book rights, so-called “orphan
works” and digital rights for other pre-existing works.  Before he was with the Book Rights Registry, he was
executive director at the Book Industry Study Group, established
30 years ago to improve the efficiency of the U.S. book-
publishing industry. He has also serves as editorial director at
Nielsen BookData and electronic publisher ProQuest LLC’s
Chadwyck-Healey unit.  CCC is a 33-year-old global rights broker for books,
journals, newspapers, magazines, images, blogs and ebooks.  Singtel Optus Football Broadcast Copyright Case Hearing Set  Subscribers to Singapore Telecom Ltd.’s Optus unit’s TV Now
service will be able to watch the Australian Football League’s
grand finals matches this coming weekend despite the league’s
copyright infringement suit, the Sydney Morning Herald reported.  The court hearing on the suit filed by the AFL, together
with the National Rugby League and broadcast partner Telstra
Corp. is set for December 19, the newspaper reported.  Telstra, which paid 153 million Australian dollars ($152
million) for an exclusive right to broadcast AFL matches and
which is negotiating a license with the NRL, objects to an Optus
service allowing customers to record and watch free-to-air
television on their mobile phones or computers, according to the
Sydney Morning Herald.  Optus is arguing that its service operates legitimately
under Australian copyright law permitting customer recording of
programming for time-shifting purposes, according to the
newspaper.  After Beating of Copyright Staff, Six Arrested in Nigerian Raid  Six people were arrested, and pirated CDs and books as well
as duplicating materials worth more than 8.5 million Nigerian
naira ($54,000), were seized in a raid conducted by the Nigerian
Copyright Commission in Engu,  Nigeria , the Sun News On-Line
newspaper  reported .  The raid followed an attack on the commission in which
staff members were beaten and injured seriously by “hoodlums
mixed up with pirates,” Augustine Alewo Amodu, who heads
enforcement for the commission, told the Sun News.  Piracy in Nigeria “has eaten deep into the fabric of this
nation, affecting the economy of this country,” Amodu said, the
Sun News reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Ex-ASC Employee Pleads Guilty To Stealing Trade Secrets  A former employee of  American Superconductor Corp. (AMSC)  has
pleaded guilty in an Austrian court to charges of trade secret
theft, Boston Business Journal reported.  The ex-employee acknowledged passing Devans, Massachusetts-
based ASC’s proprietary information to  China ’s Sinovel Wind
Group Co., the target of ASC’s corporate-espionage legal filings
in China, according to Boston Business Journal.  The technology at issue is related to upgrades for
Sinovel’s 1.5 megawatt wind turbines, according to the
newspaper.  The 28-year-old engineer was sentenced to one year in jail,
two years probation and ordered to pay ASC $270,000 in damages,
Boston Business Journal  reported .  Patents  New York  Resident Patents Apparatus for Building Better Snowman  A resident of Melville, New York, received a patent for
what may be the ultimate snowman.  Patent 8,011,991, issued Sept. 6 to Ignacio Marc Asperas,
covers an “apparatus for facilitating the construction of a
snow man/woman.”  According to the patent, the apparatus is a spherical body
to which snow can be adhered. The sphere can have a negative
static charge to which positively charged dry snow particles are
likely to adhere.  “Sounds really patentable, doesn’t it?” Asperas says in
his patent.  The sphere can contain a van der Graaf electrostatic
generator “that can be built as small as a soda can,”
according to the patent.  The generator would need a control to regulate the charge
because “it would not do to zap little kiddies,” Asperas said.
“I am sure it would not harm them, but I am thinking of greedy
product liability attorneys,” he said.  He applied for his patent in January 2006. No outside
counsel is listed on the patent.  This is the second patent Asperas has received that is
related to snowmen. In September 2007 he received patent
7,264,531, which is for a “method and apparatus for
facilitating the construction of a snow man/woman.”  In that patent he said it “is not a joke patent. It’s
completely serious and is a serious undertaking to obtain a
patent.” That patent doesn’t mention the use of an
electrostatic generator.  HTC Bid to Block Apple Imports of IPhone, IPad Gets U.S. Review  HTC Corp. (2498) ’s patent infringement complaint seeking to block
U.S. imports of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, iPad and Mac computers will
be investigated by a trade agency.  The U.S. International Trade Commission in  Washington  said
yesterday it would consider the complaint, according to a  notice 
on its website. Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC,  Asia ’s second-biggest
maker of smartphones, filed the case last month against
Cupertino, California-based Apple.  ITC investigations typically take 15 to 18 months to
complete.  For more patent news, click here.  IP Moves  McDermott Adds Two Patent Practitioners to IP Practice Group  McDermott Will & Emery LLP hired two patent specialists,
Lin Deng and Victoria Friedman, for its IP practice, the
Chicago-based firm said in an e-mailed statement.  Deng , who joined from New York’s Kenyon & Kenyon,
represented China’s Hangzhou Zhongce Rubber Co. in a 2008 patent
dispute involving tire treads, according to Bloomberg data. She
has done patent acquisition work for clients in the
semiconductor, telecommunications, electronics, automobile and
computer hardware and software industries. She has also done
patent acquisition work.  She has an undergraduate degree in electrical engineering
from Dalian Maritime University, and masters’ degrees in law
from both  Peking University  and George Washington University.  Friedman , who does patent and trademark acquisition and
licensing, previously practiced at  Valauskas Corder LLC  and
Mayer Brown LLP, both of Chicago.  She has an undergraduate degree from DePaul University and
a law degree from John Marshall Law School.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 