-- 
A Road Map to a Prepackaged, Orderly Greek Default: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-28T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/road-map-to-prepackaged-orderly-default-that-keeps-greece-in-euro-view.html
European leaders swear a Greek
default isn’t in the cards. Their parliaments debate whether to
bolster an inadequate rescue facility. The  International
Monetary Fund  sends delegates to Athens to make sure it deserves
its next tiny tranche of bailout aid. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  regularly declares fealty to the euro.  They’re all in denial. Almost no one believes Greece is
solvent, not with an economy -- and tax receipts -- shrinking
and debt ballooning to 180 percent of gross domestic product, a
burden that no amount of belt-tightening will make bearable. The
question now is whether Europe can arrange a controlled and
orderly default, or will allow a Greek bankruptcy that is
chaotic and destructive to the global economy.  Europe ultimately needs radical change, including a fiscal
union and the ability to issue bonds that all 17 euro-area
countries collectively would stand behind, much like U.S.
Treasuries. But that would require amending treaties, which each
country’s parliament must approve.  Europe ’s voters deserve a
say, too. All of that could take years.  No reliable road map exists for managing a sovereign
bankruptcy involving $500 billion.  Argentina  defaulted in 2001
on debts of a mere $80 billion. An orderly default would require
immediate restructuring of Greece’s debts, and possibly those of
several other countries. That would have to be accompanied by
the three S’s: Stopping the contagion, saving the euro and
stabilizing the banks -- all at once, euro-area wide, and
preferably over a single weekend.  A Resounding ‘Stay’  A controlled default first must answer the question of
whether Greece can stay in the euro, or whether it must return
to the drachma. The answer should be a resounding “stay,” and
not because the euro compact doesn’t allow a member country to
exit. Such rules can be finessed.  Expelling Greece from the euro would cause more economic,
political and social chaos than the world can bear. The
possibilities range from runs on European banks to violent
rioting in the streets of  Athens  -- or even civil war. True,
leaving the euro would allow Greece to do something it can’t do
now -- devalue its currency -- to be more competitive. But it
would also paralyze a drachma-tized economy. One big reason is
that companies with euro debts would be hard-pressed to pay them
back with a deeply devalued drachma, and would face bankruptcy.  Exiting would also be more expensive than staying.  Willem Buiter , the chief economist at Citigroup, says a euro exit would
mean a 100 percent write-off of Greek bonds, while staying would
mean writing down their value by 60 percent to 80 percent. Greek
bonds now trade at discounts of 40 percent to 65 percent of face
value.  Greece  would need debt forgiveness, in which creditors
accept haircuts of at least 50 percent to bring the debt-to-GDP
ratio below 100 percent. If bank and other investor losses are
tax deductible, the hit to profits would be somewhat softened.
Greece would also need to issue new bonds, which the ECB, the
IMF and possibly the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (a public-private financing source) could jointly
back to attract buyers and present an overpowering, united front
to skeptical markets.  Instead of imposing a tough-love austerity plan on Greece,
this troika should peg any new securities to an economic
recovery, so that payments increase with GDP growth and decline
in a recession. A similar arrangement worked for Latin American
countries issuing Brady Bonds in the late 1980s.  Jean-Claude Trichet , the outgoing ECB president, is very familiar with that
episode: He was the head of the so-called Paris Club of
sovereign creditors that negotiated the Brady Bond deals.  A Financial Firewall  To stop the contagion, the ECB must pledge to provide
liquidity for as long as it’s needed. But the central bank must
do much more by erecting a financial firewall -- one that is
impregnable to the market forces that will continuously probe
for a weak spot -- around the rest of the euro bloc. Any new
bonds issued by  Portugal , Ireland,  Spain ,  Italy ,  Belgium  and
 France  would also need guarantees to attract investors at
reasonable rates.  This part of the roadmap will not go down easily with
 Germany . The ECB’s charter directs it to control inflation, and
doesn’t allow it to monetize sovereign debts, which is the label
some German officials will give such guarantees. But Germany may
have little choice: If it left the euro, its  exchange rate  would
skyrocket, exporters’ profits would plummet, and its economy
would shrink.  Preventing contagion also means stopping bank runs. The
default roadmap must include a plan to reassure all Europeans
that their savings and retirement plans are safe. It may be
necessary to impose temporary  capital controls  in Greece and
other countries to stop bank runs before they start. Euro-area
governments should also guarantee deposits, much the way the
U.S. swiftly raised the guarantee on American deposits to
$250,000 from $100,000 (now made permanent by Congress) after
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed.  Saving the banks would require recapitalizing dozens of
European banks holding Greek and other sovereign debt. Once
Greece defaults, its bonds and those of a half-dozen euro-area
countries suddenly will be worth a fraction of the value at
which they are carried on banks’ books. The amount of bank
capital needed -- estimates range from the IMF’s $410 billion to
Merrill Lynch’s $550 billion -- must be based on realistic
stress tests that take sovereign defaults into account.  Many banks will be able to raise private capital. For those
that can’t, governments must be ready to inject capital in
return for equity, as the U.S. did with its Troubled Asset
Relief Program.  Taxpayers on Hook  Who will pay? The European Financial Stability Facility
could be the source of capital for a euro-TARP and the ECB
sovereign-debt backstop. The bailout fund may soon have 440
billion euros ($600 billion), assuming government approvals of a
July replenishment plan take place by mid-October. Those funds
could be leveraged with the help of the ECB to build a 2 or 3
trillion euro facility. But there’s no getting around the fact
that Europe’s taxpayers will be on the hook.  Economists and analysts disagree on the details for each of
the steps involved, but they agree that a prepackaged, well-
managed bankruptcy, not unlike the ones arranged by the Obama
administration for General Motors Co. and Chrysler Group LLC in
2009, would be better than letting the chips fall where they
may.  None of this is to say that an off-the-shelf blueprint will
make a default easy. It won’t. The distress will be felt
worldwide. But it will be far less traumatic this way. Carpe
diem, Europe.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  