-- 
Romania to Leave Rates Unchanged on Threats to Growth, Leu

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-09-29T06:29:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/romania-to-leave-rates-unchanged-on-threats-to-growth-currency.html
Romania ’s central bank will
probably leave interest rates unchanged for an 11th meeting
today as the euro-area debt crisis clouds the economic outlook
and weakens the currency.  The  Banca Nationala a Romaniei  will leave its monetary
policy rate at 6.25 percent, according to all 13 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. The bank will announce its decision after 11
a.m. in Bucharest.  Romanian policy makers have kept borrowing costs steady
since last June as they assess the fading effect of a tax
increase on prices. Central banks across the region are seeking
to balance the risks of slower growth in western  Europe , the
main importer of goods from its eastern neighbors, and weaker
currencies as investors cut exposure to emerging-market assets.  “We think the central bank will keep its cautious approach
because of the uncertain situation on financial markets,” said
 Gaelle Blanchard , a London-based emerging-market analyst at
Societe Generale SA, who expects a rate cut early next year. It
“doesn’t want to see the leu weaken too much due to the risk to
inflation and financial stability, so cutting rates now would be
quite risky for the currency.”  The leu, the fifth-best performer this year among 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg, rose 0.1
percent to 4.3224 against the euro as of 9:20 a.m. in Bucharest
trading, after closing at a 2011 high of 4.3276 yesterday.  Inflation Slows  Poland ’s central bank left borrowing costs unchanged in
September on expectations inflation will slow and the economy
will weaken. Hungary kept its benchmark  interest rate  steady for
an eighth month Sept. 20, while the Czech central bank followed
suit two days later.  Romanian policy makers left rates on hold after an increase
in the value-added  tax rate  to meet international bailout
pledges boosted inflation to the fastest in two years. Before
that, the bank lowered borrowing costs four times to combat the
worst recession in two decades.  Romania’s inflation rate fell to the lowest in 17 months in
August, dropping more than economists forecast as a bumper
harvest boosted food stocks. It declined to 4.25 percent from
4.85 percent in July, the lowest since March 2010, the  National
Statistics Institute  said on Sept. 12.  Inflation should fall within policy makers’ target range of
2 percent to 4 percent in 2012, with price growth to slow to 3.3
percent in the first quarter before accelerating to 3.5 percent
by the end of the year, according to a central bank  forecast .  Economic growth slowed to 1.4 percent from a year earlier
in the second quarter compared with 1.7 percent in the first.
Romania is on track to meet a forecast of 1.5 percent growth for
this year, Prime Minister Emil Boc said on Aug. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  