-- 
Rove, Burton Groups Subject of IRS Complaint

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-09-28T21:03:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/rove-burton-political-groups-are-subject-of-new-irs-complaint.html
Advocates of stronger campaign
finance laws today challenged the tax-exempt status of political
groups that Republican  Karl Rove  and Democrat  Bill Burton  helped
set up, a move that could force them to disclose their donors.  The complaint to the  Internal Revenue Service  names Rove’s
Crossroads Grassroots Policy Strategies and Burton’s Priorities
USA. Rove, a former adviser to President  George W. Bush , and
Burton, a former aide to President  Barack Obama , also have
related political action committees that disclose their donors.  The groups want “to keep secret from the American people
the donors financing their campaign expenditures,” said Fred Wertheimer, president of Democracy 21, which filed the complaint
along with the Campaign Legal Center, both based in  Washington .
“These groups have little, if anything, to do with promoting
social welfare and everything to do with electing and defeating
candidates,” he said in a statement.  Crossroads GPS was the subject of a similar complaint last
year by the same advocacy groups. Crossroads GPS said in June it
would spend $20 million on issue ads attacking Obama’s policies,
commercials that regulators don’t consider election activity.  “This is the fourth frivolous complaint in 12 months from
a highly ideological group that wants to sic the IRS on its
opponents,” said Jonathan Collegio, a Crossroads spokesman, in
a statement.  In Compliance  Burton, in a statement, said, “Our organization operates
in compliance with all federal rules and regulations enforced by
the IRS.”  Julianne Breitbeil, an IRS spokeswoman, said agency
“privacy laws don’t allow us to comment on specific taxpayer
information.”  Also named in the complaint were the American Action
Network and Americans Elect. AAN and Crossroads GPS were among
the four independent groups -- all backing Republicans -- that
spent the most on the 2010 congressional elections, according to
an analysis of  Federal Election Commission  records. Neither
disclosed their donors. Americans Elect is planning to nominate
a nonpartisan presidential ticket in 2012.  They are among the political groups that have spent
millions to help elect or defeat candidates and don’t have to
disclose their donors because they are registered as nonprofit
groups with the IRS rather than political organizations with the
FEC.  Shadow Campaign  “The abuses of the  tax code  by these shadow campaign
operations have mushroomed since the last election cycle with
both Democrats and Republicans now in on the act and not even
bothering to maintain a facade that they have any real purpose
other than to elect members of their respective parties,” said
J. Gerald Hebert, executive director of the Campaign Legal
Center, in a statement.  Overall, outside groups spent $305 million on the 2010
elections, compared with $69 million in 2006, according to the
 Center for Responsive Politics , a Washington-based research
group that tracks political spending. Included in that total is
$137 million spent by groups that didn’t disclose their donors.  Rove and another former Bush White House aide,  Ed Gillespie , helped establish Crossroads GPS and a related
organization that discloses its donors, American Crossroads. The
two groups helped the Republicans win a U.S. House majority last
year. The groups said they plan to raise more than $240 million
for the 2012 elections.  Burton and  Sean Sweeney , a former senior adviser in the
Obama White House, helped set up Priorities USA and its sister
group, Priorities USA Action, earlier this year, modeling them
after the Republican-leaning independent groups. The groups plan
to raise $100 million to help re-elect Obama.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 