-- 
Rubalcaba Pledges to Impose Tax on Spain’s Rich, Fight Fraud

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-09-28T14:07:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/rubalcaba-says-will-fight-spain-s-large-tax-fraud.html
Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba, the
Socialists’ candidate for  Spain ’s general election, pledged to
create levies on the wealthy and fight tax fraud as he aims to
shield the welfare state from budget cuts.  Rubalcaba, the former deputy prime minister polls indicate
will lose the Nov. 20 elections, said the levies would come on
top of plans announced in July to tax “great fortunes” and
banks.  “I’ve already spoken about two; there will be more sectors
of society whom we ask to make an effort,” he said in a
televised news conference in Madrid today. “I won’t touch
salaries, but we may make some changes to income from capital.”  The ruling Socialists are trying to win back traditional
allies angered by Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero’s
moves to freeze pensions and cut public wages to rein in the
euro region’s third-largest budget deficit. The election pits
the People’s Party’s  Mariano Rajoy , who seeks a slimmer state
and help for entrepreneurs, against Rubalcaba’s vows to shield
health and education from austerity.  Rubalcaba said the amounts raised from fighting  tax evasion 
will be “striking,” without giving details. Spain’s
underground economy is equivalent to about 19 percent of gross
domestic product, compared with 25 percent in  Greece  and 22
percent in  Italy , according to Friedrich Schneider, a professor
at the University of Linz in Austria, who studies underground
activity.  Rubalcaba, who also pledged not to freeze pensions again,
is aiming to shrink the majority that polls indicate Rajoy is
set to win. The PP may secure the largest outright majority on
record, with as many as 189 seats in the 350-strong Parliament
and a 14.6 percentage-point lead, El Periodico reported on Sept.
26. A poll commissioned by El Pais newspaper, a traditional ally
of Socialist administrations, gave Rajoy a 14.1 percentage-point
lead on Sept. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  