-- 
Russian Farmers Face Railway-Cost Issue, SovEcon’s Sizov Says

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-28T15:03:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/russian-farmers-face-railway-cost-issue-sovecon-s-sizov-says.html
Russian grain farmers face a
railway monopoly that is increasing the cost of shipping crops
out of the country, said Andrei Sizov, managing director of
Moscow-based researcher SovEcon.  For distances of as much as 1,000 kilometers (622 miles),
transporting grain is cheaper by truck than by rail because of
the rates charged by OAO Russian Railways, Sizov said at the
MENA Grains Summit in Istanbul yesterday.  Russia ’s government was looking at lowering the cost of
hauling grain by rail to help farmers in the country’s interior
sell their crops, Sergei Sukhov, the  Agriculture Ministry ’s
deputy head of agriculture market regulation, said last month.  “I don’t really think that the physical infrastructure is
an issue,” Sizov said. “Tariffs yes, tariffs are high. That is
because of lack of competition. I hope someday this monopoly
will be broken up.”  Russia’s transport network is “relatively developed,”
according to Sizov.  The high cost of rail transportation reduces opportunities
to sell grain grown in Russia’s more remote regions such as the
Urals and Siberia, said Sizov and Anna Supryadkina, a senior
specialist with the Russian Grain Union.  “Tariffs are very expensive and right now Siberian grain
is not competitive in Asian markets,” Supryadkina said at the
industry meeting.  A lack of infrastructure in remote regions is a hurdle to
taking unused arable land in Russia into production, according
to the grain union specialist.  “If you want to use this land you have to invest a lot of
money,” Supryadkina said. “Mainly in Russia we now need to
invest in infrastructure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 