-- 
South Korea Urges Banks to Bolster Foreign Liquidity as Europe Storm Brews

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-09-29T02:35:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/s-korea-fsc-urges-banks-to-boost-foreign-exchange-liquidity.html
South  Korea  urged its banks to
boost foreign-currency liquidity amid concern they remain
vulnerable to the financial storm brewing in  Europe , even after
more than a decade of reform following an international bailout.  Lenders need to look beyond the U.S. and Europe and
diversify their funding into emerging markets such as the  Middle
East  to prepare for a global crisis, Financial Services
Commission Chairman Kim Seok Dong told chief executive officers
of firms including Kookmin Bank and  Woori Bank  in Seoul today.  A 9 percent slump in South Korea’s won in the past month
and signs of tightening in global credit markets dictates that
banks continue shoring up defenses, according to Kim. They have
already cut foreign-currency debt to 49 percent of external
borrowings from 60 percent when Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
collapsed in September 2008, finance ministry data show.  “Banks need to secure enough foreign-funding liquidity to
avoid a vicious cycle of relying on support from the government
or central bank in times of crisis,” Kim said. “We need to be
prepared for a situation where external instability lasts for a
considerable period,” he said, adding that lenders’ current
holdings of easy-to-sell foreign-currency assets are sound.  Regulators are mindful that the  International Monetary Fund 
led a $57 billion bailout during the Asian currency crisis, and
that banks’ foreign-currency capital dwindled and the won
plunged during the global credit freeze of 2008. Moody’s
Investors Service says that while Korean banks are better placed
to stave off future turmoil, they remain vulnerable because of
their dependence on financing from abroad.  No Overnight Fix  “External shocks such as the euro-zone debt crisis remain
major potential sources of risk,” Youngil Choi, a senior
analyst at Moody’s in  Hong Kong , said by phone yesterday. “Their
fundamental weakness in foreign-currency funding, due to a lack
of deposit base, can’t be fixed overnight.”  Asian stocks fell today amid concern European policy makers
will struggle to stem the region’s debt crisis. The won weakened
0.8 percent against the dollar at 11:33 a.m. in  Seoul , and has
slumped the most over the past month among 10 Asian currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The Korea Financial Industry Index has
retreated 21 percent since July 31 amid a global rout fueled by
concern  Greece  may default on its debt.  “Banks are breakwaters that absorb external shocks on the
front lines,” Kim said at today’s meeting. “How well they
fulfill their roles can determine the scale of potential
difficulties we may face in the future.”  Storm Visible  The FSC chairman this week urged his officials to monitor
foreign-currency soundness of financial institutions as “the
storm is visible” from Europe, according to an e-mailed
statement on Sept. 26. Officials need to be ready to implement
contingency plans and revise them if needed, he said.  Korea’s Financial Supervisory Service, a privately funded
regulator that works under the FSC, said this week that it may
increase the frequency of tests of banks’ ability to meet
foreign-currency debt obligations to monthly from quarterly.  The extra testing would be positive for banks after about
two-thirds of 18 lenders failed the latest review, Moody’s said
on Sept. 26. The FSS on the same day that the stress tests
weren’t a matter of passing or failing.  Moody’s sees no immediate reason to change its stable
outlook on Korea’s banking sector as for now it’s unlikely that
the European debt problem will deteriorate rapidly, Choi said.
Korean banks’ capital level, profitability and asset quality
have improved from 2008 and 2009 and their capital strength
isn’t weaker than peers in  Asia , Choi said.  Taken Steps  Authorities have taken steps to curb capital outflows since
last year, including reducing banks’ currency-derivative
holdings and restricting local companies’ sale of foreign-
currency bonds for domestic use.  Short-term debt owed by Korean entities to investors abroad,
a risk factor during the global financial crisis, dropped to 38
percent of the country’s foreign borrowings as of June 30 from
52 percent in September 2008, finance ministry data show.  Shortages of foreign cash in Korea during the 2008 credit
freeze drove offshore borrowing costs higher, prompting the
country to form currency swap accords with the U.S. and  Japan ,
and leading the government to guarantee banks’ debts. During the
1997-98 Asian crisis,  South Korea  overhauled the banking sector,
allowing more than 630 financial firms to fail and selling two
of the biggest lenders to overseas investors.  “South Korean banks are much better armed for a crisis
than they were three or four years ago,” Haekyu Chang, a Seoul-
based banking analyst at Fitch Ratings Ltd., said by phone
yesterday. “But no one knows whether preparation is enough
before your ship faces a storm. We know the storm is coming but
we don’t know how strong it will be.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  