-- 
Salameh Says European Recession Wouldn’t Affect Lebanese Economy

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   P i m m   F o x
-- 
2011-09-28T07:46:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/salameh-says-european-recession-wouldn-t-affect-lebanese-economy.html
Lebanon’s economy would probably be
unaffected by a European recession because the Arab country
maintains a peg to the dollar and most deposits are in the U.S.
currency, central bank Governor Riad Salameh said.  “Lebanon will not be affected by a recession in  Europe  as
the Lebanese economy essentially is dollarized,” Salameh, who
has been governor since 1993, said in an interview in New York
with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television’s “Taking Stock.” “A
crisis on the euro will not affect us,” Salameh said, adding,
“Banks in Lebanon do not hold sovereign bonds in Europe in
substantial amounts.”  About 66 percent of deposits in Lebanon are in foreign
currencies, 90 percent of which are in U.S. dollars, he said.
Bank deposits will grow between 7 percent and 10 percent this
year, Salameh said. Lebanese lenders have limited exposure to
Europe because of central  bank regulations  that restrict the
scope of their investments.  Concerns that Europe’s debt crisis may plunge the global
economy into a recession dominated talks of policy makers,
investors and bankers when the  International Monetary Fund  and
the  World Bank  held their annual meetings in  Washington  last
weekend. The IMF has predicted “severe” fallout should Europe
fail to contain the debt crisis.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won parliament’s
backing yesterday for a property tax that would help plug the
country’s budget shortfall, taking it a step closer to securing
an 8 billion-euro ($11 billion) aid package next month.  Foreign Investment  Lebanon’s banks largely avoided the global financial
turmoil of 2008 and 2009 because Salameh banned them in 2004
from buying comparatively risky non-Lebanese assets such as non-
investment-grade paper and derivatives.  The stability of the Lebanese pound, which has been pegged
at about 1,500 to the dollar since the 1990s, coupled with
 interest rates  that were as high as 8 percent in 2008, have
attracted a steady flow of funds into the country. Bank deposits
grew 10 percent last year to $110 billion. The central bank has
about $33 billion in foreign liquidity in addition to gold
valued at more than $16 billion, according to Salameh.  Domestic political wrangling and unrest in neighboring
 Syria  slowed the Lebanese economy this year. The  IMF  sees 2011
growth of 1.5 percent, the  lowest since 2006 . Lebanon’s gross
domestic product expanded 7.5 percent in 2010. Inflation is
forecast to reach 5.9 percent this year, according to the IMF,
while Salameh estimates consumer prices will rise 6 percent.  Salameh sees signs of growth even as the economy slows.  “The banking sector is performing well, credit is
expanding and profits are increasing and total deposits
represent three times our GDP,” he said.  Lebanon’s construction industry has grown almost 30 percent
in the last three years and prices of real estate have
multiplied by an average of five times since 2006, he said.  “Housing is attracting a lot of the credit of the banks,”
Salameh said, adding that the central bank “put out prudential
circulars to prevent bubbles.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
Pimm Fox in  New York  at 
 pfox11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  