-- 
Al-Jasser Cuts Saudi Growth Forecast, Says Inflation Stable

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-09-28T10:50:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/saudi-economy-to-grow-5-percent-in-2011-al-jasser-tells-asharq.html
Saudi Arabia ’s central bank
governor cut his forecast for the kingdom’s economic growth this
year to 5 percent and said inflation is set to slow.  The economy will probably also expand by about 5 percent in
2012, central bank Governor Muhammad Al-Jasser told Asharq Al-
Awsat newspaper today. The bank’s previous forecast for this
year was 6 percent. Inflation “began to stabilize and it should
decline in the future,” Al-Jasser said, according to the
London-based newspaper.  Saudi Arabia, the Arab world’s biggest economy, this year
announced about $130 billion in additional spending to create
jobs and ward off the political unrest sweeping through other
Middle Eastern countries. The government had already pledged a
$384 billion, five-year development plan to build new houses and
expand non-oil industries.  Saudi Arabia is in a “in a better situation than others,”
al-Jasser was quoted as saying by Asharq Al-Awsat. “We hope
that the global economy is not entering in a new downturn of
fear and weakness, especially in the big financial institutions
in  Europe .”  Europe’s debt crisis has generated as much as 300 billion
euros ($408 billion) in credit risk for the region’s banks, the
 International Monetary Fund  said last week. Al-Jasser said
earlier this month Saudi Arabia doesn’t have plans to buy any
European debt. Some European countries are struggling to service
debt, and that has put the continent’s banks in a “difficult
situation,” he told Asharq Al-Awsat.  Oil Output  Saudi Arabia may cut oil production next year if the
European debt crisis worsens and  Brent crude  falls toward $90 a
barrel, Sonia Song, HSBC Holdings Plc’s head of Asia oil and gas
research, said at the bank’s Global Natural Resources conference
in  Singapore . The government needs higher prices to finance its
budget, Song said.  The country produced about 9.85 million barrels a day last
month, according to Bloomberg data.  Saudi inflation was 4.8 percent in August, down from a high
of 6.1 percent in 2010. The central bank said in August that
inflation may accelerate during the third quarter on higher
 consumer spending .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  