-- 
HSBC India Client Indicted in U.S. Tax Case Over $8.7 Million Account

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-09-28T16:52:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/hsbc-india-client-indicted-in-tax-case-over-8-7-million-account.html
A  Wisconsin  neurosurgeon was re-
indicted by a U.S. grand jury on new charges that he failed to
declare an  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  account in  India  valued in 2009 at
$8.7 million.  Arvind Ahuja was indicted again by a federal grand jury in
 Milwaukee , where he was initially charged June 28 with
concealing accounts from the  Internal Revenue Service . The nine-
count indictment added a charge that Ahuja conspired with two
HSBC India bankers to defraud the IRS from 2006 to 2009.  The charges against Ahuja come amid a widening U.S.
crackdown on offshore  tax evasion  that includes grand jury
investigations of eight foreign banks. Prosecutors have filed
criminal tax charges against more than three dozen former U.S.
clients of UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG,  Switzerland ’s two
biggest banks, and London-based HSBC,  Europe ’s biggest bank.  Ahuja took steps to hide his offshore accounts, according
to the indictment made public today. In 2007, an HSBC India
banker told a colleague that Ahuja “has requested that he does
not want any kind of mail at his US or India address,”
according to the indictment. “He wants a HOLD on all his
accounts.”  Prosecutors said Ahuja failed to report more than
$1.2 million in interest income, pay taxes due or file Reports
of Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts, or FBARs.  ‘Far Off-Base’  Dan K. Webb, Ahuja’s attorney, said in an e-mailed
statement that the government’s allegations are “far off-base,
and we will continue to present a vigorous, fact-based
defense.”  The bank’s failure to issue Ahuja documents stating his
interest income “directly caused” the prosecution, Webb said.  “Dr. Ahuja has paid all U.S. income taxes on all monies
deposited into these foreign bank accounts as well as his
personal income in the U.S.,” he said. “The only issue is
taxes owed on the interest earned in these foreign bank
accounts.”  After Ahuja became aware that the bank didn’t report
interest income to him, he paid all taxes, interest and
penalties, according to Webb. The charges “have absolutely
nothing to do with Dr. Ahuja’s practice of medicine, and Dr.
Ahuja’s primary focus remains on providing his patients with
world-class neurological case.”  John Doe  New Jersey  businessman Vaibhav Dahake pleaded guilty in
April to conspiring with five HBSC bankers to hide his Indian
accounts from the IRS. His plea came four days after a U.S.
judge in  California  gave permission to the IRS to serve a so-
called John Doe summons on HSBC for information about Americans
who may have banked in India to hide accounts from U.S. tax
authorities.  In both the Dahake and Ahuja cases, prosecutors said HSBC
ran a U.S. division called NRI Services that marketed offshore
banking services to U.S. citizens of Indian descent. Through
NRI, HSBC India “encouraged U.S. citizens to open undeclared
bank accounts in India,” according to the Ahuja indictment.  Ahuja also had an HSBC account on  Jersey , a Channel Islands
tax haven, according to the indictment. In September 2009, Ahuja
told his banker to close the Jersey account and courier the
money to his Wisconsin house, according to the indictment. Two
months later, he had those funds deposited in his HSBC India
account, according to the indictment.  If convicted, Ahuja, who lives in Greendale, Wisconsin,
faces as long as 10 years in prison on the FBAR charges, five
years on conspiracy and three years on charges of filing false
tax returns.  The case is U.S. v. Ahuja, 11-cr-00135, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Wisconsin (Milwaukee).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 