-- 
SEC Sues NIR’s Ribotsky for Stealing $1 Million From Clients

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-09-28T21:47:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/sec-sues-nir-s-ribotsky-for-stealing-1-million-from-clients.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission sued investment firm NIR Group LLC and its principal
for allegedly hiding poor performance from investors and
siphoning more than $1 million for personal use.  Corey Ribotsky, the sole managing member of Long Island-
based NIR, wrote checks to himself from the firm’s $876 million
AJW family of  hedge funds  from 2004 to 2009, even after his head
accountant told him he was violating the law, the SEC said today
in a  complaint  filed in federal court in  New York . NIR and
Ribotsky will fight the SEC’s claims, according to a statement
from Brad Gerstman, Ribotsky’s lawyer.  NIR’s strategy of buying stakes in distressed and start-up
firms through private investment in public equity, or PIPE
transactions, began to show signs of failure in 2007 when many
of the companies that got financing from AJW funds were
essentially defunct or near bankruptcy, the SEC said in its
lawsuit. The agency also sued Daryl Dworkin, a former NIR
analyst accused of falsifying client reports under Ribotsky’s
direction who pleaded guilty to related criminal charges in July
2010.  “In a classic betrayal of trust, Ribotsky stole from his
investors and falsely assured them that his struggling hedge
funds were thriving,” SEC Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami 
said in the agency’s statement.  Ribotsky also “repeatedly lied” to investors from 2007 to
2009 about the AJW Funds’ performance and liquidity, telling
them NIR could liquidate investments in 36 to 48 months, “a
practical impossibility” given the size of the investments and
adverse market conditions, the SEC said in the statement.  He used client funds to pay for luxury items including
Lexus and Mercedes automobiles and a Rolex watch, the SEC said.  “I think the complaint appears to be a stretch in an
attempt to justify approximately two years of time and resources
poured into the investigation,” Gerstman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  