-- 
Serbia Expects Positive EU Candidacy Assessment, Delevic Says

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-09-28T13:35:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/serbia-expects-positive-eu-candidacy-assessment-delevic-says.html
Serbia  hopes to have made enough
progress in meeting requirements to qualify for European Union
candidacy this year, said Milica Delevic, the head of the
government’s EU integration office.  The European Commission, which meets on Oct. 12 on whether
to advance the Balkan nation, may grant candidacy, add
benchmarks and attach a deadline for progress before
recommending a date for the start of entry talks or grant both
candidacy and the date, she said.  “I believe enough has been done to deserve a positive
assessment,” Delevic said at a banking conference in Belgrade
today. She dismissed the possibility that Serbia will remain
without a candidacy.  The Cabinet of Prime Minister  Mirko Cvetkovic  seeks to win
candidate status by the end of 2011 before general elections
next spring. The government has adopted a series of laws in line
with EU standards and stepped up the fight against corruption
and organized crime and adopted laws in line with EU standards.
It also has handed over 46 men indicted for  war crimes  during
fighting in the 1990s, which accompanied the breakup of the
former  Yugoslavia , to the international tribunal in  The Hague .  Serbia must also come to terms with  Kosovo , its former
province which declared independence three years ago and where
tensions escalated in July with the Pristina authorities
slapping a trade ban on goods from Serbia, over its failure to
recognize its independence. The EU-sponsored dialogue is
deadlocked, following an escalation of tensions this week.  The ongoing problems with Kosovo will also share in the
the Commission’s decision, Delevic said.  “The Commission would like to see a continuation in
dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina and some concrete
agreements,” she said. Enlargement Commissioner Stefan Fule is
due to bring news to Belgrade on Oct. 14, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  