-- 
SAT Cheaters Paid Ex-Schoolmate to Take Test, New York Prosecutors Say

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-09-28T22:33:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/seven-ny-students-charged-in-sat-scheme.html
Seven  Long Island , New York,
students were charged with taking part in a scheme in which six
of them paid the seventh to take the SAT college-admissions test
on their behalf, prosecutors said.  Six current or former students at  Great Neck North High
School , about 20 miles east of  Manhattan , are accused of paying
Samuel Eshaghoff, 19, of Great Neck, to impersonate them so they
could get higher scores on the test, Nassau County District
Attorney Kathleen M. Rice said in a  statement .  Eshaghoff, a 2010 Great Neck North graduate, now attends
Emory University in Atlanta after spending his freshman year at
the  University of Michigan  in  Ann Arbor , Rice’s office said. He
was paid $1,500 to $2,000 for each test, and took the exam for
free for a female student.  Faculty members at the high school heard rumors this year
that students were paying someone to take the exam for them,
Rice’s office said. They identified six students who had sat for
the test at a different school and whose academic records
diverged from their SAT scores.  “The Great Neck School District does not tolerate cheating
and we remain committed to cooperating with  law enforcement  in
this matter,” the district said in a statement. “It is our
hope that the actions currently being taken by the District
Attorney’s Office will serve to bring an end to any dishonest
practices which may have placed students at an unfair
disadvantage and will also bring to light any shortcomings in
the security of the SAT testing system.”  Scheme to Defraud  Eshaghoff surrendered yesterday and was charged with scheme
to defraud in the first degree, six counts of falsifying
business records in the second degree and six counts of criminal
impersonation in the second degree. He faces as long as four
years in prison if convicted.  The other six students, who were not identified because of
their ages, surrendered yesterday on misdemeanor charges and
were released on their own recognizance, said Chris Munzing, a
spokesman for Rice’s office. They face as long as a year in
prison, he said.  Eshaghoff did “very well” on the exams, with scores of
2140, 2170, 2180, 2180, 2210, and 2220 out of a possible 2400,
Munzing said.  ‘Red Flag’  “The scores were high enough that it raised a red flag
when compared with their academic achievement,” Munzing said.  Eshaghoff pleaded not guilty to the charges yesterday,
Newsday reported, citing his attorney, Matin Emouna. Emouna
didn’t return a phone message left today at his office in
Mineola,  New York .  “This case should have been handled administratively
within the district itself,” said Les Levine, a private
investigator working for Emouna, said in a telephone interview.  The students registered to take the exam at a different
school, where they wouldn’t be recognized, and Eshaghoff
presented identification bearing his photograph and the paying
student’s name, Rice’s office said. He flew back from college at
least once to impersonate two students and took the test twice
in one weekend, prosecutors said.  The Educational Testing Service, the nonprofit Princeton,
New Jersey-based organization that administers the SAT, told
prosecutors it conducted its own probe and was unable to provide
documentation because of a computer crash, Rice’s office said.  ETS doesn’t notify colleges or high schools when a student
is suspected of cheating and instead cancels their scores and
offers a refund, a retest or arbitration, Rice’s office said.  Impersonation Cases  Impersonation cases are rare and the most common form of
cheating is one student copying off of another, Tom Ewing, a
spokesman for ETS, said in a phone interview. Ewing said that
ETS investigated the case for about three to four months before
contacting the  district attorney ’s office and that the nonprofit
handed over all the information it had gathered.  In what was believed to be the first criminal prosecution
to stem from cheating on the SAT, a 19-year-old man was
sentenced to six months in jail for perjury in October 1992
after paying a friend $200 to take the exam for him, the New
York Times reported.  All institutions that received SAT scores are notified when
a score is canceled, and ETS and the College Board, which
sponsors the test, “regularly review test administration
policies and gather input from a wide variety of sources,” ETS
said in a statement.  ‘Isolated Incidents’  “Cases like this are isolated incidents and we are pleased
that the assistance we provided to local authorities resulted in
this outcome,” ETS said in the statement. “The policies ETS
follows in test security cases adhere to all applicable laws,
including New York State law, which outlines very specifically
the importance of affording due process and maintaining strict
confidentiality of students whose test scores come under
scrutiny.”  The  College Board  didn’t respond to a phone message left at
its New York headquarters seeking comment on the arrests.  “Emory University expects that all students act honorably,
demonstrating a keen sense of ethical conduct,” the school said
in a statement. “Students alleged to be found in violation of
this code are referred to the University Conduct Council for
review and possible action.”  Rice’s office said it’s also investigating whether similar
schemes have occurred in at least two other schools in Nassau
County, as well as allegations that Eshaghoff took the exam for
students at other high schools.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  