-- 
Shanghai Subway Collision Caused by Power Failure Not Signals, Alstom Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-28T16:33:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/shanghai-subway-collision-caused-by-power-failure-not-signals-alstom-says.html
Shanghai ’s subway operator said a
crash that injured 284 people was caused by a  power failure  and
manual error, a day after its chairman blamed the accident on
signaling equipment.  Controllers didn’t follow proper procedures after a power
shortage disrupted signaling, Shanghai Shentong Metro Co. said
in a  statement  yesterday. An investigation is continuing, it
said. Calls to the company went unanswered.  Shanghai Metro will conduct safety inspections and improve
training following the Sept. 27 crash, it said. The company’s
Chairman Yu Guangyao told reporters hours after the accident
that the collision happened because of a fault in equipment made
by Alstom SA-backed Casco Signal Ltd.  “The main cause of the accident has no relation with the
signaling system,” Philippe Kasse, a spokesman for Levallois-
Perret, France-based Alstom, said by e-mail yesterday. Casco
Signal, a venture with  China  Railway Signal & Communication
Corp., “can’t be held as responsible,” he said.  Services on Line 10 were shut across a 13-station stretch
most of yesterday. Full operations on the track, which opened
last year, resumed at 8 p.m., Shanghai Metro said. The company
limited train speeds to 45 kilometers (28 miles) an hour.  High-Speed Crash  The accident, two months after a fatal high-speed train
crash, has stoked concerns that China’s rapid construction of
new transport links comes at the cost of safety. Shanghai’s
subway and maglev-train  network  expanded more than sevenfold in
eight years to 453 kilometers because of a growing population
and demand during last year’s World Expo.  “This is an alarm bell for the  subway system  after years
of rapid growth,” said Jack Xu, an analyst at Sinopac
Securities Asia Ltd. in Shanghai. “Investment in the sector may
slow in the near term.”  CSR Corp., which has made subway trains for lines in
Shanghai, Nanjing and Guangzhou, fell 4.9 percent to HK$3.08 in
Hong Kong trading yesterday. Shanghai Metro climbed 1.3 percent
to 8.86 yuan in Shanghai after dropping as much as 4.7 percent.
Alstom dropped 4.8 percent to 25.245 euros in Paris trading.  More than 500 people were evacuated from the two metro
trains following the crash, Shanghai Metro said Sept. 27. Of the
injured, 95 were admitted to hospitals or were under
observation, the city health department said in a  statement  on
its website yesterday. No one was in critical condition, it
said.  A train on the No. 10 line also ran in the wrong direction
on July 28 because of a signaling fault during an upgrade,
according to a statement on Shanghai Metro’s website. No one was
injured. When a Bloomberg reporter visited the Casco office in
Shanghai yesterday, no one answered the door.  In July, a high-speed train crashed into the back of
another locomotive near the city of Wenzhou, pushing four
carriages of a viaduct and killing 40 people. That accident was
caused by a signaling fault following a lightning strike,
according to a preliminary government investigation.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  