-- 
Sinohydro Raises $2.1 Billion in Shanghai Initial Share Offering

-- B y   G u o   A i b i n g
-- 
2011-09-29T05:56:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/sinohydro-raises-13-5-billion-yuan-in-shanghai-initial-offering.html
Sinohydro Group Ltd. raised 13.5
billion yuan ($2.1 billion) in its initial public offering,
 China ’s biggest this year, after selling shares at the low end
of their indicative price range as the market slumped.  The country’s largest builder of hydroelectric dams sold
the shares at the bottom of a price range of 4.50 yuan to 4.80
yuan, according to a statement filed to the Shanghai Stock
Exchange today. The company cut the size of its issuance to 3
billion shares on Sept. 26.  Sinohydro, whose IPO surpassed the 9.5 billion yuan raised
by Sinovel Wind Group Co. in January, is planning hydropower
dams and wind farms as part of China’s push to rely less on coal.
The sale comes at a time when the benchmark Shanghai Composite
Index has dropped 16 percent since the start of the year because
of higher  interest rates  and a slowing global economy.  The company had planned to issue as many as 3.5 billion
shares, with the proposed price range from its underwriters of
5.3 yuan to 6.4 yuan, according to a prospectus issued in July.  The IPO could have been the biggest since China Everbright
Bank Co. raised 18.9 billion yuan in August last year. The
exercise of Everbright Bank’s over-allotment option increased
the amount it raised to 21.1 billion yuan.  Proceeds from Sinohydro’s share sale will help fund
construction of projects including a hydropower dam in
southwestern Sichuan province and a wind farm in the northern
province of Gansu, the company said in July.  The IPO funds will also be used for a dam in Cambodia,
Sinohydro said in July. The company has won construction
contracts in  Asia ,  Africa  and  South America .  This year’s decline in the Shanghai gauge extends last
year’s 14 percent plunge, as the government increased measures
to cool inflation that’s at the highest in almost three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at  