-- 
Slovakia’s Ruling Coalition Is Close to Agreement on EFSF, Lawmaker Says

-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 
2011-09-29T06:10:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/slovak-coalition-is-near-agreement-on-efsf-lawmaker-says-1-.html
Slovakia’s ruling coalition is
close to an agreement on approving the overhaul of  Europe ’s
bailout fund, a lawmaker for the governing Freedom and
Solidarity party said.  Jozef Kollar, the head of the party’s parliamentary caucus,
told TV Markiza late yesterday that Prime Minister  Iveta Radicova ’s latest proposal meets the party’s conditions. The
party, known also under by the acronym SaS, has previously said
it wouldn’t vote for any measures to strengthen the European
Financial Stability Facility.  “We want a solution that would meet two conditions: we
won’t block other countries in approving the EFSF and it won’t
require a single cent from Slovak taxpayers,” Kollar said. When
asked whether an agreement within the coalition is in sight, he
said: “Yes.”  Slovak approval would remove another obstacle to
strengthening the EFSF, a key pillar of the euro region’s
efforts to stamp out the sovereign debt crisis. The move
requires the unanimous approval of all 17 euro governments. Nine
have already ratified and  Germany ’s parliament votes today.  Slovakia will vote by Oct. 17, Radicova said yesterday. The
government needs SaS votes to push the package through in
parliament as the opposition has said it will not support it.  Fast Approval  The European Union and the  European Central Bank  have been
pressing euro-region members for a speedy approval.  Kollar, speaking after a meeting with Radicova, didn’t
elaborate on the details of the proposal. Government spokesman
Rado Bato didn’t immediately respond to calls on his mobile
phone and text message seeking a comment.  The enhanced powers of the 440 billion-euro ($596 billion)
EFSF were approved at a July 21 meeting of European leaders in
Brussels. The measures would allow the rescue fund to buy the
debt of stressed euro-area nations, aid troubled banks in the
region and offer credit lines to governments. The EFSF’s current
role is to sell bonds to finance rescue loans.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Radoslav Tomek at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  