-- 
Fitch Lowers Slovenia’s Rating One Step on Concern over Banks, Finances

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z   a n d   V i v e k   S h a n k a r
-- 
2011-09-28T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/slovenian-rating-cut-one-step-by-fitch-on-bank-concerns-public-finances.html
Fitch Ratings cut Slovenia’s
long-term foreign- and local-currency ratings one step
because of risks to banking stability and a worsening fiscal
position in the euro-area nation.  The Alpine country’s rating was lowered to AA- from AA, the
fourth-highest investment grade, Fitch said yesterday in a
statement in  London . That’s the same as Italy and leaves
Slovenia as the highest-rated country among the European Union’s
eastern members. The outlook is negative, indicating Fitch is
more likely to cut its rating than increase it or leave it
unchanged.  The downgrade “is primarily driven by deterioration in the
financial position of the banking sector, which poses a
significant risk that the sovereign will need to contribute to
future recapitalization,”  Chris Pryce , a director at Fitch’s
sovereign-ratings department, said in the statement. Defeat of a
pension overhaul at a June referendum is “a setback for the
long-term sustainability of the public finances,” he added.  Slovenia, a euro member since 2007, follows  Italy , Spain,
Ireland, Portugal, Cyprus and  Greece  as euro-area countries to
be downgraded this year as contagion from the region’s debt
crisis prompts rating companies and investors to step up
scrutiny of credit risk. Moody’s Investors Service cut the
Alpine nation’s credit rating by one level to Aa3 on Sept. 23,
citing “medium-term economic growth risks.”  The yield on Slovenia’s Eurobond due 2018 increased to 4.53
percent yesterday from 3.94 percent Sept. 19, the day before
lawmakers ousted Prime Minister Borut Pahor’s government after
two parties left the Cabinet in a dispute over pension changes.
Slovenian President Danilo Turk yesterday said he will call
early elections for Dec. 4.  Non-Performing Loans  Fitch said its downgrade reflects concern about the level
of non-performing loans at banks, which were equal to 14.8
percent of total loans at the end of June, as well as the low
level of provisioning against them and capital adequacy.  Assuming an increase in delinquent loans to 18 percent and
a 50 percent writedown of equity holdings, banks would require
3.1 billion euros ($4.2 billion) of additional capital,
according to Fitch’s baseline scenario.  Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. is in line for 400 million
euros in new capital, the second such move this year, to improve
its capital ratio after Slovenia’s biggest lender barely passed
an EU stress test in July, calling into question its ability to
withstand another recession and a sovereign-debt crisis in the
region.  The government is the majority owner of Nova Ljubljanska
and Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d., the country’s second-
largest lender.  Growth Forecasts Cut  Slower growth in the euro region increases the downside
risks to Slovenia’s economy and public finances, Fitch said. The
ratings company cut its growth projections to 1.5 percent this
year from 2.5 percent and to 2 percent in 2012 from 3 percent.  Still, the banking industry represents the main risk to
Slovenia’s debt rating, according to Fitch, which affirmed the
nation’s F1+ short-term foreign-currency issuer default rating
and AAA country ceiling ratings.  “Greater than anticipated further increases in non-
performing loans and recapitalization requirements in the
banking sector could lead to further negative rating action,”
it said. “A failure of the government to provide timely
support, if required, would also be negative. Material fiscal
slippage” may also trigger a downgrade, it added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net ;
Vivek Shankar at 
 vshankar3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  