-- 
Smiths Profit Holds Steady Amid ‘Constrained’ Markets

-- B y   S a b i n e   P i r o n e
-- 
2011-09-28T07:42:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/smiths-annual-profit-rises-after-improving-margins.html
Smiths Group Plc (SMIN) , the world’s
biggest maker of airport-security scanners, said annual profit
held steady, with cost-cutting programs helping offset
“constrained” markets for medical equipment and detection
devices.  Operating profit of 438 million pounds ($685 million),
compared with 436 million pounds a year earlier, London-based
Smiths said in a statement today. Revenue increased 3 percent to
2.84 billion pounds, in line with estimates. Adjusted operating
profit was 517 million pounds, ahead of a JPMorgan estimate of
511 million pounds.  Smiths installed a new chief at its detection unit to
improve profitability and counter the effects of shrinking
government budgets. The company aims to generate 40 million
pounds in annualized savings by the end of 2014 through an
efficiency drive and transferring assembly to local markets,
Chief Executive Officer Philip Bowman said on a call today.  “There is a lot of opportunity to improve the business,”
Bowman said.  Smiths was little changed at 946 pence as of 8:38 a.m. in
 London , giving the company a market value of 3.7 billion pounds.  Bowman said it’s “too early” to determine whether there
would be job reductions associated with the transfer of assembly
capacity.  The outlook for medical equipment and scanners will remain
“challenging” in the near term, the company said. Bowman
turned down a $3.89 billion offer for the medical-equipment unit
in January, saying it failed to value the business properly.  The company forecast growth at its John Crane unit as the
order rate for mechanical seals used in the oil and gas industry
remains at “strong levels.” That should translate into sales
in the first half, Smiths said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabine Pirone in London at 
 spirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  