-- 
Smokers Quit With Cheap Remedy Used in Bulgaria for 40 Years

-- B y   M a r t h e   F o u r c a d e
-- 
2011-09-29T13:53:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/smokers-quit-with-cheap-remedy-used-in-bulgaria-for-40-years.html
For as little as $6, there may be a
smoking-cessation remedy that actually works.  A clinical test of Tabex, sold in eastern  Europe  for more
than four decades, shows that the plant-based medicine can
triple smokers’ chances of quitting compared with a dummy pill.
The results of a study on 740 people were published today in the
 New England Journal of Medicine .  The tablet, developed and sold by  Bulgaria ’s Sopharma AD,
may help smokers with limited means quit, scientists said. Most
of the  6 million people  who die from tobacco use each year are
from low- and middle-income countries, according to the  World
Health Organization . Sopharma Chief Executive Officer Ognian
Donev and Rick Stewart, former CEO of Amarin Corp., have formed
a company called  Extab Corp.  that’s trying to raise $20 million
to fund more tests and find a marketing partner.  “Big Pharma are clearly aware of Tabex but I think they
will be pleasantly surprised by the quality of these results,”
Stewart said in a telephone interview. Extab aims to conduct at
least one more clinical trial and expects to be able to seek
regulatory approval at the end of 2013, according to Stewart.  In the study, 8.4 percent of patients taking Tabex for
25 days with “minimal” counseling abstained from smoking for a
year, compared with 2.4 percent of those given a placebo. The
smokers who took the plant-based remedy reported more
gastrointestinal upset, the research shows.  Poor Smokers  “The benefits of Tabex are comparable with those of other
smoking-cessation treatments, but at a fraction of the cost,”
Robert West of  University College London ’s Department of
Epidemiology and  Public Health , who led the research team, said
in a statement.  “Stopping smoking can be extremely difficult,” West said,
and the study’s results suggest Tabex could become “a practical
option even for the poorest smokers.”  In  India , where 20 cigarettes cost about $1.10, a course of
nicotine-replacement therapy costs about $150 and smoking-
cessation drugs as much as $200, West and his colleagues wrote.  A 25-day course of Tabex, which was first sold in Bulgaria
in 1964, costs about $15 in  Poland  and $6 in  Russia , where it’s
sold over the counter, the authors said.  Extab, incorporated in  Delaware , is in talks with
drugmakers interested in selling the product, according to
Stewart. The plan is to seek permission to sell Tabex in the
U.S., Europe,  Japan  and  developing countries  and charge no more
than the local price of a pack of cigarettes, he said.  Price of Life  “If someone is willing to pay that amount to kill
themselves then you think they will be ready to pay as much or
less to stop smoking,” Stewart said.  Tabex tablets contain cytisine, a substance found in the
seeds of a tree called laburnum that produces yellow pea-
flowers, which mimics the effect of nicotine.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Chantix, a smoking-cessation drug available
in the U.S. and Europe on prescription, is also derived from
cytisine. One week’s worth of tablets for a patient taking three
a day costs about $63 on the website drugstore.com.  The absolute difference in rates of tobacco abstinence
between the two patient groups in the Tabex study was lower than
for Chantix and similar to what has been found for nicotine-
replacement therapy, the scientists wrote in the study.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marthe Fourcade in Paris at 
 mfourcade@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  