-- 
SNB Will Return to Profit in the Medium Term, Jordan Says

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-09-28T17:46:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/snb-will-return-to-profitability-in-the-medium-term-jordan-says.html
The  Swiss National Bank  will be
able to return to profit in the medium term after foreign-
currency purchases contributed to a record loss in 2010, Vice
President Thomas Jordan said.  “Even if the exchange-rate losses are substantial, the
SNB’s long-term structural profit potential will hardly be
affected,” Jordan said today at an event in  Basel ,  Switzerland .
“The interest income and dividends will gradually offset the
exchange-rate-related valuation losses on foreign currency
investments suffered to date.”  The SNB was forced to impose a franc ceiling of 1.20 versus
the euro on Sept. 6 and resume purchases of foreign currencies
to protect the economy. Efforts to stem franc gains in the 15
months through mid-June 2010 more than quadrupled the bank’s
balance sheet and contributed to an annual loss of $21 billion
as the single currency’s value plummeted.  The franc, considered a haven in times of turmoil, has
remained above 1.20 versus the euro since the SNB imposed the
ceiling. It reached an all-time high of 1.0075 on Aug. 9. Jordan
said the cap is “very, very credible” and the SNB is “taken
seriously in the market.” He declined to comment on whether
policy makers will raise the ceiling.  While Swiss lawmakers had previously criticized the SNB’s
intervention policy and called for President Philipp Hildebrand
to resign over the losses, faltering economic growth and waning
export demand have since prompted all five government-coalition
parties to support renewed efforts to weaken the franc. The KOF
Economic Institute yesterday cut its growth forecasts for both
this year and next, and said the franc remains overvalued.  ‘Thin Air’  Before imposing the cap, the SNB’s foreign-currency
holdings jumped to a record 253.4 billion francs ($282 billion)
at the end of August. That’s about half of Swiss gross domestic
product. It will publish September reserves on Oct. 6.  Jordan said a central bank “cannot become illiquid” and
the franc ceiling helped reverse some foreign-currency losses.  “Yet, even with the minimum  exchange rate , our balance
sheet remains vulnerable to valuation changes,” he said.
“Unfortunately, the risks have not disappeared. Losses could
still occur on other currencies, or on gold. The amounts
involved can build up rapidly, owing the size of the balance
sheet.”  The Zurich-based SNB is able to create francs “out of thin
air,” Jordan said, suggesting policy makers have enough
firepower to ward off investors if needed. The central bank has
also lowered borrowing costs to zero and boosted liquidity
supply to the money market to weaken the currency.  The SNB’s decisions are “always driven by motives other
than profit,” with policy makers aiming to ensure  price
stability  while “taking due account of the development of the
economy,” he said.  “This extensive use of monetary policy tools was, and
remains, necessary to ensure the fulfillment of our legal
mandate,” Jordan said. It “enabled the SNB to weather the
effects of the recent crisis relatively successfully” even if
the measures “have taken a considerable toll on our balance
sheet and our income statement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  