-- 
Solar-Panel Imports From China Said to Face U.S. Trade Complaint

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 
2011-09-28T22:24:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/solar-panel-imports-from-china-said-to-face-u-s-industry-trade-complaint.html
Solar manufacturers including a
unit of  SolarWorld AG (SWV)  are preparing a U.S. trade complaint
against  China , as they seek to counter low-cost, subsidized
imports, according to people familiar with the matter.  The case, which would be filed at the Department of
Commerce and the U.S. International Trade Commission in
 Washington , would be one of the largest targeting China, with
political implications as both nations race to develop clean-
energy technologies.  The companies say that China’s subsidies to solar companies
violate global trade rules and provide those manufacturers with
an unfair advantage, according to the people, who spoke
yesterday on condition of anonymity because no complaint has yet
been filed.  “We are actively conversing with our federal contacts in
seeking help on how to prevent China from decimating another
U.S. industry,” Ben Santarris, a spokesman for SolarWorld
Industries America Inc. in Hillsboro,  Oregon , said in an
interview. He declined to discuss a possible filing.  In the first seven months of this year, China shipped $1.4
billion of solar panels to the U.S., more than the $1.2 billion
of panels it sent in all of 2010, according to U.S.
International Trade Commission data. Imports from  South Korea ,
the Philippines and India also jumped.  The collapse this month of Solyndra LLC, a California maker
of solar panels that had $535 million in U.S. loan guarantees,
has renewed demands from U.S. lawmakers and union leaders that
the Obama administration pursue unfair-trade complaints against
China for out-sized subsidies to its clean-energy companies.  China’s Position  “The environment-friendly green-technology policies
introduced by the Chinese government are for the purpose of
energy protection and ensuring sustainable development,”  Wang Baodong , the spokesman for the Chinese Embassy in Washington,
said in October.  The volume of imports from China sped up as prices fell.
China sent more solar panels to the U.S. in July of this year
than in all of 2010, according to U.S. Department of Commerce
data supplied by SolarWorld.  “The American solar industry is facing unparalleled
challenges, and without the leadership of your administration
this industry may disappear,” Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon
Democrat, said in a Sept. 8 letter urging President  Barack Obama 
to initiate a countervailing duty case against imports from
China or to file a case at the  World Trade Organization .  Credit Provided  China provided $30 billion in credit to its biggest solar
manufacturers last year, about 20 times the U.S. effort,
Jonathan Silver, executive director of the Energy Department’s
loan program, told a congressional panel Sept. 14.  SolarWorld Industries America, which is lobbying lawmakers
such as Wyden to help protect its 1,000 jobs in Oregon, is owned
by SolarWorld AG of Bonn, the biggest German maker of solar
modules. The company said Sept. 2 that it was cutting almost 200
jobs at its facility in Camarillo,  California .  “There is no cost advantage in China,” Santarris said.
“But it is difficult for a Western company to compete with a
centrally planned economy in China.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  