-- 
Solyndra Plant Had Whistling Robots, Spa Showers

-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 
2011-09-28T16:27:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/solyndra-s-733-million-plant-had-whistling-robots-spa-showers.html
The glass-and-metal building that
Solyndra LLC began erecting alongside Interstate 880 in Fremont,
 California , in September 2009 was something the Silicon Valley
area hadn’t seen in years: a new factory.  It wasn’t just any factory. When it was completed at an
estimated cost of $733 million, including proceeds from a $535
million U.S. loan guarantee, it covered 300,000 square feet, the
equivalent of five football fields. It had robots that whistled
Disney tunes, spa-like showers with liquid-crystal displays of
the water temperature, and glass-walled conference rooms.  “The new building is like the  Taj Mahal ,” John Pierce,
54, a San Jose resident who worked as a facilities manager at
Solyndra, said in an interview.  The building, designed to make far more solar panels than
Solyndra got orders for, is now shuttered, and U.S. taxpayers
may be stuck with it. Solyndra filed for  bankruptcy protection 
on Sept. 6, leaving in its wake investigations by Congress and
the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  and a Republican-fueled
political embarrassment for the Obama administration, which
issued the loan guarantee. About 1,100 workers lost their jobs.  Amid the still-unfolding postmortems, the factory stands as
emblematic of money misspent and the Field of Dreams ethos that
seemed to drive the venture, said Ramesh Misra, a solar-industry
analyst in  Los Angeles  for Brigantine Advisors.  Cylindrical Modules  “When you don’t have the demand, you can’t go into
something with the attitude, ‘Build it and they will come,’”
Misra said. “You have to make sure the customers are already
there when you build it.”  He is skeptical of the company’s statement, in a press
release on the groundbreaking for the plant, that it had a
backlog of $2 billion in orders for its cylindrical solar
modules for commercial rooftops, which it touted as cheaper to
install and more efficient than competing flat panels.
“Backlog” is a term sometimes used loosely in the industry and
may not represent firm orders at all, he said.  David Miller , a Solyndra spokesman, didn’t respond to a
phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  Solyndra was the dream of founder Chris Gronet, who
received a Ph.D. in semiconductor processing at  Stanford
University  and had spent 11 years as an executive at  Applied
Materials Inc. (AMAT)  He adopted as the company’s motto, “What we do
here will someday change the world.” Gronet didn’t return a
phone call seeking comment.  Prices Plunge  U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu and then-California
Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  attended the 2009 groundbreaking
for the plant. At the event, Chu said the U.S. solar-energy
industry was losing out to countries like  China  and the loan
guarantee, the first awarded by the department under President
Barack Obama’s 2009 economic stimulus plan, would ensure the
company’s orders would be filled by U.S. workers.  Even as Chu, Gronet and Schwarzenegger were thrusting their
shovels into the dirt, market forces were working against
Solyndra. The price of polysilicon, the main ingredient in
competing traditional solar panels, had plunged. By the time the
plant opened last January, the price would be down about 40
percent from when Solyndra got the loan guarantee. Chinese
companies were ramping up production of their ever-cheaper
competing flat panels.  Solyndra executives rushed construction in a race to fill
orders, putting some work on a 24-hour, seven-day schedule. The
factory was up and ready for equipment installation in 10
months. The project employed more than 3,000 union construction
workers, according to a Solyndra background sheet.  ‘First Class’  “They were anticipating large production,” Juancho
Suntay, 51, a former Solyndra equipment maintenance technician,
said in an interview. “That’s why they wanted to have a state-
of-the-art factory.”  The plant features 19 loading docks, four electric car
charging stations in the parking lot and landscaping of wild
grass and a rock garden. An automated rail system moved parts
through the assembly process.  Robots that resembled “a big freezer with wheels”
maneuvered around the factory transporting panels from one
machine to another, said George Garma, 49, a former Solyndra
equipment maintenance technician from Fremont. The Disney tunes
alerted workers to the robots’ presence.  “It was first class,” David Chan, 51, who was an
information-technology contractor for Solyndra, said in an
interview. “I’ve been in the business for 25 years and have
seen some elaborate buildings. I’ve never seen a facility like
it.”  Costly Real Estate  The plant caught the attention of competitors. “Everybody
I know in the solar industry would remark on it and say ‘Boy,
that’s a really, really big factory,’” said Barry Cinnamon,
chief executive officer at Westinghouse Solar Inc., a Campbell,
California-based solar-panel company that manufactures in China.  “That’s a lot of money that went into that factory,”
Cinnamon said in an interview. “It’s one of those neck-snapping
things every time you drove down the highway.”  Commercial real-estate agents in the region wondered why a
new factory was being built in the Silicon Valley region, the
epicenter of some of the priciest real estate in the country,
where most new construction consists of  office space .  “There hasn’t been a factory or warehouse building built
in Silicon Valley in well over 10 years,” Jeff Fredericks,
managing partner at Colliers International in  San Jose , said in
an e-mail.  The asking rate for industrial properties in Silicon Valley
is the fourth-most expensive in the U.S., according to Jack
DePuy, Bay Area research manager at CB Richard Ellis in  Foster
City , California.  Machinery Breakdowns  About 11.4 percent, or 950,801 square feet, of industrial
space was vacant in Fremont in September 2009, according to data
from Colliers.  “There was available space that we talked about with
them,” Bob Wasserman, Fremont’s mayor, said in an interview.
“It was their decision that they needed a new building. Was
that a good decision? It didn’t turn out to be.”  John Olenchalk, senior vice president at Kidder Mathews, a
commercial real-estate firm in  Redwood City , said Solyndra
executives considered existing space, including a former Sun
Microsystems Inc. facility in nearby  Newark  that had 218,000
square feet of production space. The company wanted more space
and to be near its existing operations, he said.  Solyndra used the new plant for the first phase of panel
production. An older facility nearby finished and assembled the
panels, former employees said. Problems developed at the old
plant, when machinery wouldn’t work properly and needed constant
repair, workers said.  “Everybody was talking about it,” said Edward Santos, 44,
a former warehouse worker in Solyndra’s logistics department.  Advantage Lost  “A significant percentage of the product we built went
into a dumpster because it was defective,” said Craig Ewing,
55, a former maintenance technician. “It seemed like the
company accepted that,” he said.  Even if the old plant hadn’t had problems, by the time the
company opened the new facility it was clear that Solyndra had
lost whatever cost advantage it might have had, said Michael Butler, chairman and CEO of Cascadia Capital LLC, a Seattle-
based investment-banking firm that advises renewable-energy
companies.  “I’m sure there was a lot of panic at that point, because
I’m sure that everyone saw the writing on the wall,” Butler
said.  Workers noticed inventory piling up. “The drivers would
tell us that the warehouses are getting full,” Santos said.
“Sometimes, they’d stay there one or two days before the
material was unloaded.”  About two weeks before the company closed, Solyndra CEO
Brian Harrison gave an upbeat speech at the new factory, said
Romie Sumera, 58, a former equipment-maintenance technician.  Solyndra was getting leads on new orders from companies
including Wal-Mart Stores Inc., Harrison told them.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 