-- 
South Africa Considers Policy Options as World Faces ‘Lehman-Type’ Event

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-09-28T16:16:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/south-africa-considers-policy-options-as-world-faces-lehman-type-event.html
South Africa  is considering policy
choices to help support the economy as the European debt crisis
stalls the global recovery and a rout in financial markets
points to a possible banking collapse.  “The world is in a danger zone,” Reserve Bank Governor
Gill Marcus said in an editorial comment in Johannesburg-based
Financial Mail today. The sell-off in financial markets last
week is “indicative of how perilously close we are to another
‘Lehman-type’ moment.”  South Africa, which sells about a third of its manufactured
goods to  Europe , faces policy implications because of the global
slowdown, threatening the government’s growth and jobs goals,
Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  told reporters in  Pretoria 
today. Gordhan, who will give revised fiscal targets on Oct. 25,
is aiming to narrow the  budget deficit  to 4.8 percent of gross
domestic product in the year through March 2013 from 5.3 percent
this year.  “The normal recoveries aren’t happening,” Gordhan said.
“Given the abnormalities and tumultuousness, how do you manage
fiscal credibility and how do you ensure your economy grows.
That’s the mix some countries aren’t getting right.”  Global markets tumbled last week as concern mounted that
the debt crisis in Europe may spread beyond  Greece , threatening
banks in the region. Currencies, including the rand, dropped the
most since Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy in
2008, an event that helped plunge the global economy into
recession.  Currency Overshoot  Marcus said the depreciation in emerging-market currencies
represent an “overshoot” and it may ease as risk appetite
improves. The rand’s decline, if sustained, will add to
inflation, and policymakers are “scratching our heads” on how
to deal with it, Gordhan said.  The rand had the biggest weekly decline since October 2008
last week, falling to as low at 8.6165 against the dollar before
paring losses. It is 15 percent weaker this year, the worst
performer of the 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The
rand strengthened 0.3 percent to 7.8323 at 4:51 p.m. in
Johannesburg.  South Africa’s economy expanded an annualized 1.3 percent
in the second quarter, the slowest pace in almost two years as
manufacturing and mining output plunged, the statistics office
said on Aug. 30. The government estimates it needs growth of 7
percent a year over the next decade to slash the jobless rate to
14 percent from 25.7 percent.  “Growth also needs a domestic focus and there is an urgent
need to revive domestic investment,” as gross fixed capital
formation remains below the peak reached before the 2008 global
crisis, Marcus said.  The  Reserve Bank  left its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged
at a 30-year low of 5.5 percent for a fifth consecutive meeting
on Sept. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  