-- 
Waiting Hours on Stretcher Pushes South Africa to Gamble Budget on Health

-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-09-29T16:45:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/south-africa-risks-deficit-goal-with-health-expansion-to-42-million-people.html
When Shadrack Zitha complained of
severe abdominal pain, his brother and his cousin took him to
Natalspruit hospital, east of Johannesburg.  Two hours later, he still lay writhing on a wooden bench in
the emergency room while his relatives battled to get him
admitted. And it was his second visit: he’d been sent away
earlier with painkillers and an anti-inflammatory.  “If we’d gone to a private hospital they’d have identified
the problem immediately,” said his cousin, Bethuel Zitha.  Shadrack Zitha, 23, is among more than 42 million South
Africans forced to rely on an ailing public health system
plagued by drug and staff shortages and maintenance backlogs.
Their experience is worlds apart from that of the country’s
other 8.3 million people. They have medical insurance that pays
for private hospitals owned by Mediclinic International Ltd.,
 Netcare Ltd. (NTC)  and  Life Healthcare Group Holdings Ltd. (LHC)   Now the government plans to bridge the divide by
introducing compulsory national health insurance over the next
14 years, using contributions paid for the coverage to revamp
hospitals and hire more doctors and nurses.  The plan may push government health spending to 6.1 percent
of gross domestic product by 2025, versus about 3.9 percent in
fiscal 2010, according to calculations using data from Econex,
an economic advisory service near Cape Town.  Cutting or Taxing  Funding the so-called NHI will require a choice between the
government’s plan to eliminate the  budget deficit , forecast at
5.3 percent of gross domestic product in the year through March
2012, and raising taxes, said Dawie Roodt, chief economist of
Efficient Group Ltd., a Pretoria research and financial company.  “We can’t double the current health budget and rein in the
deficit,” he said. ‘Conservative calculations show that the
deficit will increase to 10 percent of GDP by 2018.’’  Only 10 million people, or one-fifth of the population, pay
income taxes. Health already accounts for 11.5 percent of state
spending and is the third-biggest category after education and
welfare grants.  Public and private South African health spending amounted
to about 8.3 percent of GDP in 2008, similar to that in the
U.K.,  Norway  and  Finland . The difference is that only 40 percent
of the outlay went toward universally available government
services in South Africa, compared with more than 70 percent in
most developed European countries, according to a study done on
behalf of the  Department of Health .  ‘Insurmountable Task’  “The government’s plan is great on paper, a utopia, but
there are currently some very real problems in the public
system,” said Mathew Menezes, a health-care analyst at Avior
Research Ltd., an equity-research company in Johannesburg. “It
seems an insurmountable task to get health care for all on a
level with where the private sector is now.”  South Africa had 55 doctors per 100,000 people in 2008,
Econex said in a report released in November last year. That
lagged behind  Brazil , which had 185,  Mexico , with 198, and the
U.K., which had 230 doctors per 100,000, Econex said.  When Zitha was carried into Natalspruit on the morning of
Sept. 1, about 200 people sat on wooden benches in a waiting
area while a group argued over the order of the lines and
patients lay on beds in passages waiting to be attended. Toilets
stank of urine and had no toilet paper or soap; some wheelchairs
were without arm or foot rests.  97 Doctors, 3 Million People  The hospital, which has 735 nurses, 97 full-time doctors
and 800 beds, serves 3 million people. It is fed by 30 clinics,
according to the provincial health department.  “The reality for millions of  South Africans  is that they
simply don’t get health care,” said Di McIntyre, professor in
health economics at the University of Cape Town. “The NHI is
intended to address this.”  Natalspruit, which averages 1,500 patients a day, is in one
of 10 districts chosen for an NHI pilot program that begins next
April. All its beds were full on Sept. 19, when government
inspectors visited to check its readiness, said hospital
spokesman Selepe Moutloali. Public bathrooms were stocked with
toilet paper and had been cleaned.  Complaints have declined every year since 2007, Moutloali
said. Most of the 1,600 workers have received training on how to
provide improved  customer service .  A revamp of the health care system may increase competition
for Netcare, Mediclinic and Life Healthcare as the government
drives down prices.  Some hospital facilities will remain private and others
will probably form partnerships with government, said Jean- Francois Mercier, an economist at Citigroup Inc. in
Johannesburg. “Prices at these facilities will be cut,” he
said.  Making Payments  By 2017, about 35 billion rand of the NHI budget may be
funded by contributions from employed South Africans, accounting
for 25 percent of private health-care payments, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch analysts including Kate Turner-Smith and Niel Venter wrote in an Aug. 17 note.  Discovery Holdings Ltd. (DSY) , which owns South Africa’s largest
health-insurance administrator, would experience a decline of 12
percent in fiscal 2013 profit if it had to lose a quarter of the
premiums paid by members, the analysts said.  “If successful health reform provides competition for
private health insurance, then this will be a good thing for
society,” Discovery Health Chief Executive Officer Jonathan Broomberg said in an e-mailed response to questions. “This will
mean we have to up our game and ensure that the products we
develop and sell are relevant and provide real value.”  Tax Rates  The government may consider extra budget payments, co-
payments from patients and private investment to fund the NHI,
Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said on Aug. 11.  The pool of potential contributors is limited. More than 25
percent of the workforce is unemployed and more than 15 million
people receive state welfare grants.  To plug the gap, personal income tax rates may have to be
raised by 3 percentage points and the value-added tax increased
to 17 percent from 14 percent, said Roodt of Efficient Group.  “There is a very small group being relied on to provide
money for a large range of social services,” said Lullu Krugel,
a senior economist at KPMG International’s Johannesburg unit.
“Throwing more money at the system won’t change the problems.”  South Africa ’s 13.5 percent bonds due in 2015 have rallied
this year, with the yield dropping 44 basis points this year to
6.87 percent by 6:40 p.m. in Johannesburg. Longer-dated local-
currency debt weakened, with the yield on the 6.75 percent
securities due in 2021 climbing four basis points this year to
8.18 percent.  Zitha paid 150 rand for a week’s stay at Natalspruit, where
he had a food blockage cleared. While the hospital has improved
since his cousin Bethuel was treated there for a gunshot wound
four years ago, it still doesn’t measure up to private care.  “In a public hospital the workers don’t care about serving
patients,” Bethuel Zitha said. “They never get fired.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 