-- 
Sovcomflot Says Gazprom’s Shtokman Needs $4 Billion Fleet

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-09-28T09:26:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/sovcomflot-says-20-tanker-fleet-needed-for-shtokman-gas-field.html
The OAO Gazprom-led Shtokman
project to produce liquefied natural gas, or LNG, from a Barents
Sea field almost 600 kilometers (370 miles) from shore may
require a $4 billion fleet to transport the fuel.  The Shtokman project, which includes  Total SA (FP)  and  Statoil
ASA (STL) , may require 20 tankers, which in total will cost that sum,
Evgeny Ambrosov, senior executive vice president of Sovcomflot
told reporters today in Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk, Russia.  Gazprom, Russia’s largest gas producer, and its partners
have delayed an  investment decision  on the Shtokman project to
the end of this year as shale gas production in the U.S., the
target market, damped demand for LNG. That pushed some cargoes
to  Europe , pushing down prices in a potential market.  Russia’s largest shipper is seeking to open an Arctic sea
lane to Asia for large-scale commercial use during a five-month
navigable season. Sovcomflot has reduced the time to navigate
the passage by one to 7.3 days in test runs this year, Ambrosov
said.  OAO Novatek,  Russia ’s second-largest gas producer, has
tested the route with cargoes of condensate before building a
plant to produce LNG on Russia’s Yamal peninsula. State-
controlled OAO Rosneft, Russia’s largest oil producer, and
Glencore International Plc, the world’s largest commodities
trader, have also shown interest in the route, Ambrosov said.  Novatek’s Arctic Yamal LNG project, in which Total is a
partner, may be the world’s most complex undertaking of its
kind, Ambrosov said.  Sovcomflot plans to triple volumes of oil products it ships
to 150 million metric tons in 2014, Ambrosov said. The tanker
market continues to be “very tough,” he said.  The Russian government, which owns 100 percent of
Sovcomflot, may sell shares next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  