-- 
Spain Halts Lottery IPO That Aimed to Trim Bond Sales Amid Market Plunge

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-09-29T11:04:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/spain-halts-lottery-ipo-that-aimed-to-trim-bond-sales-on-market-conditions.html
Spain ’s postponement of an initial
public offering of its lottery operator shows how  Greece  and
other deficit-laden nations are struggling to attract equity
investment as the debt crisis deepens.  Spanish Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said yesterday she
pulled the sale of 30 percent of Sociedad Estatal Loterias &
Apuestas del Estado SA to avoid selling it at a discount to the
company’s 20.8 billion euro ($28.4 billion) book value. The sale
was set to produce the biggest IPO in Spain’s history.  Axing the deal increases the amount of debt Spain needs to
sell to finance the euro region’s third-largest budget deficit,
just as investors charge the government more than 5 percent to
borrow for 10 years. Spain’s failure to list a debt-free company
whose sales have resisted the worst recession in six decades may
signal difficulties for Greece,  Italy  and  Portugal  as they also
pursue asset sales.  “It does imply the likes of Greece won’t be able to sell
assets,” said  Ben May , a European economist at  Capital
Economics  in  London . “It will be difficult for struggling
governments to sell assets at good prices.”  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos on Sept. 25 cut
a target for raising revenue to pay down debt from state-asset
sales to 4 billion euros this year from 5 billion euros.  Lost Revenue  Salgado said today there was “extraordinary” interest
from retail investors, while institutional investors were
interested “at a price we didn’t want to accept.” The decision
to pull the deal doesn’t affect a separate tender to sell
management contracts for Madrid and Barcelona airports, she said
on state radio RNE today.  The estimated 7 billion euros in lost revenue from the sale
won’t have a “significant” impact on debt issuance, she said
last night in an interview on Cadena  Ser  radio. The Treasury
said in a presentation to investors in August that the
government expected to raise 7 billion euros to 9 billion euros
from the lottery sale.  Spain has one bond redemption left this year of 14 billion
euros, and expiring bills worth about 23 billion euros,
according to data from the Treasury in  Madrid . Government data
show it had 40 billion euros in cash at the Bank of Spain at the
end of June.  Borrowing Costs  Spain pays more than 5 percent a year to finance itself for
10 years, even after the  European Central Bank  began buying its
debt in August on the secondary market. The extra yield over
German securities widened to 314 basis points today while the
Ibex-35 stock market index rose 0.3 percent, trimming its loss
for the year to 14 percent.  Greece is also trying to sell assets as part of its pledges
to the European Union and  International Monetary Fund  in return
for bailout funds. Its plans include developing real estate and
sales of stakes in companies such as  Opap SA (OPAP) , Europe’s biggest
listed gambling company. The market value of the government’s 34
percent stake is now 816 million euros after Opap’s shares lost
42 percent this year.  Portugal, which also received a bailout this year, plans to
sell the state’s stakes in EDP-Energias de Portugal SA, grid
operator REN-Redes Energeticas Nacionais SA and oil company  Galp
Energia SGPS SA (GALP)  this year, while Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  and Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  meet with
bankers today in  Rome  to discuss their sell-off plans.  Local Services  The privatization plans focus on selling off local service
companies, excluding water utilities, preparing state-owned real
estate for sale and earning more from licensing property use.
Much of the proceeds from regional asset sales would remain with
local governments, while the  Finance Ministry  predicts that
selling off real estate and earning more from concessions could
bring in 200 billion euros in the next two to three years,
newspaper  Il Sole 24 Ore  reported today. That’s equivalent to
almost 15 percent of gross domestic product.  Spain’s opposition People’s Party, which polls indicate
will defeat the ruling Socialists in the general election on
Nov. 20, had criticized the government’s decision to sell the
lottery. The PP, which privatized assets when it governed in the
eight years through 2004, won’t sell the lottery if it wins the
election, Efe newswire cited Esteban Gonzalez Pons, the party’s
deputy communications chief as saying today. Cristobal Montoro,
the PP’s economics spokesman, left the door open to a possible
sale in an interview with TVE, saying the lottery “can be sold,
but shouldn’t be given away.”  Changing Plans  At least 24 new stock sales were postponed or canceled in
western  Europe  this year, almost twice as many as a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Investors are
shunning IPOs as concerns over burgeoning European sovereign
debt pushed the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index to near its
lowest level in two years.  The decision marks a U-turn for Salgado, who said on Aug.
19, when the Ibex was showing a 17 percent loss for the year,
that market conditions wouldn’t affect the sale.  “In IPOs, people look at the debt, which is zero, the
record of profits -- which it has had for 250 years -- and the
stability of sales, and the most sales have fallen was 0.5
percent in the worst moment of the crisis,” she said in an
interview in the ministry in Madrid.  The company runs the world’s biggest lottery, the annual
Christmas draw known as El Gordo, or the Fat One, which had a
prize pool last year of 2.3 billion euros. Loterias, operating
for nearly 250 years in the world’s fourth-largest lottery
market, had 2.6 billion euros of profit in 2010, according to
the annual report.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., UBS AG,
Credit Suisse Group AG,  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  and
Banco Santander SA are lead managers for the IPO, Loterias said
in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  