-- 
Spain Pulls Lottery IPO That Sought $9.5B

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-09-28T20:11:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/spain-pulls-lottery-ipo-that-sought-9-5-billion-over-market-conditions-.html
Spain  pulled the initial public
offering of its lottery operator because of market conditions,
depriving the deficit-laden nation of revenue to reduce this
year’s bond issuance.  Spain’s  Finance Ministry  said it postponed the sale of the
30 percent stake in Sociedad Estatal Loterias & Apuestas del
Estado SA as market conditions don’t “guarantee revenues that
reflect the value” of the operator.  The IPO was slated to raise as much as 7 billion euros
($9.5 billion), a person with knowledge of the deal said Sept.
19, which would have made it the biggest state-asset sale in
Spain’s history.  Spain’s Ibex-35 stock market index has lost 14 percent this
year as the nation’s borrowing costs surged to euro-era records
amid increasing expectations of a Greek default that may spread
contagion through the region. Axing the deal may increase the
amount of debt Spain needs to issue to finance the euro region’s
third-largest budget deficit.  Spain has one bond redemption left this year of 14 billion
euros, and expiring bills worth about 23 billion euros,
according to data from the Treasury in  Madrid . Government data
show it had 40 billion euros in cash at the Bank of Spain at the
end of June.  Spain pays more than 5 percent a year to finance itself for
10 years, even after the  European Central Bank  began buying its
debt in August on the secondary market. The extra yield over
German securities narrowed to 307 basis points today.  Canceled Sales  At least 24 new stock sales were postponed or canceled in
western Europe this year, almost twice as many as a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Investors are shunning
IPOs as concerns over burgeoning European sovereign debt pushed
the benchmark Stoxx  Europe  600 Index to near its lowest level in
two years.  Loterias, operating for nearly 250 years in the world’s
fourth-largest lottery market, had 2.6 billion euros of profit
in 2010, according to the annual report. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., UBS AG, Credit Suisse Group AG,
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA and Banco Santander SA are
lead managers for the IPO, Loterias said in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  