-- 
Sparx to Start Hotel Fund for Japan’s Quake-Devastated Region

-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 
2011-09-28T06:11:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/sparx-to-start-hotel-fund-for-japan-s-quake-devastated-region.html
Sparx Group Co.,  Asia ’s second-
largest hedge fund, is starting a fund that will invest in
building hotels in Japan’s earthquake-devastated areas.  Sparx tied up with Kachikaihatsu Co., a Tokyo-based
property firm which operates the Best Western hotel brand in
Japan, to build its first project in Natori city of Miyagi
prefecture, northeast of Tokyo, said Chief Executive Officer
Shuhei Abe. Sparx raised 1.1 billion yen ($14 million) for the
project aimed at providing lodging for relief workers and
volunteers following the March 11 disaster, he said.  Sparx is expanding its offerings from stocks as Abe aims to
bring his firm back to profit and resume dividend payments this
year. The 314-room hotel will be built in sections that are
transported to the site, cutting costs by half and the length of
construction by more than a year, according to Abe.  “There is a clear gap between supply and demand in the
quake-stricken area when it comes to lodging,” said Abe, 57, in
an interview in Tokyo today. “This presented an opportunity for
an investor like us to participate in  Japan ’s reconstruction
effort, while securing decent returns.”  Japan plans total spending of 19 trillion yen over five
years for reconstruction after the magnitude-9 temblor and
tsunami that devastated the northeast coast, leading to a
nuclear crisis and leaving almost 20,000 people dead or missing.
About 250 million people are expected to participate in the
effort over the next decade, according to Abe, who first visited
the disaster zones in Miyagi prefecture at the end of June.  Looking for Yield  As part of the project, Sparx teamed up with a real-estate
financing company unit of Tokyo-based Logicom Inc., which
provides property brokerage services. The two companies set up a
special purpose company that issued senior and mezzanine bonds
to investors, who are entitled to at least a 6 percent yield
through hotel revenue, which Kachikaihatsu will manage, Abe said.  “In a world like today, what investors are looking for is
a steady cash yield,” he said. “There is a clear and immediate
need to provide such housing for people at a time when
traditional financing from banks isn’t done quickly and
government is faced with many issues to actually fund a project
like this.”  The hotel will open in April, while the fund will last for
six years, Abe said.  Second Fund  Sparx is also aiming to start a second project for which it
aims to raise about 5 billion yen in the first quarter of 2012,
Abe said. The second fund will be used to build two hotels also
in  Miyagi prefecture  that will aim to have about 1,500 rooms
using the same modular system, Abe said, adding that it may
house other businesses such as medical-related services and
 convenience stores .  The Tokyo-based asset manager swung to a loss of 3.7
billion yen for the year ended March 31 as fee income declined.
Earnings have been weighed down by charges to write off losses
on the acquisition of its units in Asia. In June, as part of its
efforts to expand its offerings beyond Japan, it started an
Asian long-short equity fund using $10 million of the company’s
own cash as  seed capital .  The company’s shares declined 24 percent this year,
compared with the 16 percent drop in the broader Topix index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in  Tokyo  at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  