-- 
Standard Bank May Buy Guaranty of Nigeria, Analysts Say

-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 
2011-09-29T08:58:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/standard-bank-may-consider-buying-guaranty-trust-analysts-say.html
Standard Bank Group Ltd., which
this year reversed international expansion plans to focus on
Africa, may consider buying a stake in  Nigeria ’s  Guaranty Trust
Bank Plc (GUARANTY) , the most profitable of the country’s biggest banks.  Africa’s largest lender said last month it may buy a
consumer bank in Nigeria. Guaranty, Nigeria’s second-biggest
lender, is the most likely target because of its high return on
equity and wide margins, according to Ilan Stermer, a
Johannesburg-based banking analyst at  Renaissance Capital .  “The expansion of Standard Bank’s retail business in
Nigeria is critical to its success in Africa,” said Faizal Moolla, a banking analyst at  Avior Research Ltd.  in  Cape Town 
who has a “buy” rating on the lender. “Nigeria has a huge
population and given its growth prospects, the bank needs to
have a bigger presence.”  Nigeria is forecast to overtake  South Africa  as the
continent’s largest economy by 2025, Morgan Stanley economists
said in a report in June. Rising oil prices and  consumer
spending  are helping the expansion, according to Morgan Stanley.
That growth is attracting overseas lenders from the U.K.’s
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  to South Africa’s  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR)   Standard Bank is seeking to revive the profitability of its
operations in Africa after aborting plans to expand in Russia
and  Argentina . The lender is the worst-performing stock on the
six-member FTSE/JSE Africa Banks Index after dropping 10 percent
this year, three times the benchmark’s 3.1 percent decline.  Return on Equity  Johannesburg-based Standard Bank will have about $1 billion
in surplus capital during 2012 after disposing of its Russian
venture and selling stakes in its Argentine units.  The lender isn’t in talks or conducting due diligence on
any Nigerian lenders, spokeswoman Kate Johns said. Guaranty is
not in talks with Standard Bank, Lola Odedina, a spokeswoman for
the Nigerian lender, said.  While Standard Bank’s overall return on equity rose to 14.5
percent in the first half, from 13.5 percent a year earlier, its
operations in 16 African nations outside South African posted a
return of 7 percent, after taking into account goodwill,
development costs and converting earnings back into rand.  Guaranty’s 19 percent return on equity surpasses that of
Nigerian rivals  United Bank for Africa Plc (UBA) ,  First Bank of
Nigeria Plc (FIRSTBAN)  and  Zenith Bank Plc (ZENITHBA) , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Lagos-based lender has the widest net interest
margin at 7.8 percent, the data show.  The bank may post a 23 percent return on equity this year,
more than First Bank’s 16.4 percent and Zenith’s 15 percent,
according to Renaissance estimates.  Nigerian Banks  Guaranty is Nigeria’s second-best performing lender on the
10-member  Bloomberg NSE Banking (NGSEB10)  Index after Standard Bank’s
Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc. Guaranty is down 15 percent this year as
compared with the average decline of 31 percent. Standard Bank
combined its Nigerian branch with Lagos-based IBTC Chartered
Bank Plc in September 2007 and bought control of the combined
company for 2.8 billion rand ($358 million).  “Valuations in Nigeria are less demanding now than they’ve
been for a long while, so the timing makes sense for  Standard
Bank ,” said Lisa Haakman, an analyst with London-based Religare
Capital Markets. “Guaranty makes sense,” she said, adding that
Standard Bank is likely to partner with a local investor to buy
a majority stake.  Buying control of Guaranty, with a market value of $2.2
billion, would give Standard an extra 186 branches in Africa’s
most populous nation, tripling the value of its operations in a
country where 70 percent of citizens don’t have bank accounts.  Benchmark Bank  “Guaranty is widely seen as the benchmark for Nigerian
banks, given its efficiency, use of technology and brand
strength -- all off a relatively small physical network,”
Stermer and Adesoji Solanke wrote in a report in August. “It is
also the benchmark for corporate governance in the sector”
because it publishes accounts under International Financial
Reporting Standards.  Other potential targets in Nigeria, according to
Renaissance, include First Bank,  United Bank  for  Africa  and
Zenith. First Bank is Nigeria’s largest bank by assets while
United has the most branches. Zenith has 315 branches according
to Renaissance, and is the biggest bank by value.  Central Bank of Nigeria Governor Lamido Sanusi in 2009
fired the CEOs of eight of the nation’s lenders, spent about $4
billion to prop up failing lenders and created an entity to buy
bad debts. Overseas and local companies were invited to bid for
stakes in the West African country’s banks, both healthy and
distressed. FirstRand entered talks with Sterling Bank this year
and walked away after the two disagreed on price, according to
FirstRand. No overseas banks have taken a controlling stake in a
Nigerian lender since the changes in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  