-- 
States Appeal to Supreme Court on Health Law

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-09-28T17:14:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/states-ask-u-s-supreme-court-to-review-obama-health-care-law.html
States challenging President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul asked the U.S. Supreme Court to
intervene, saying a federal appeals court didn’t go far enough
when it invalidated a portion of the law.  Adding to calls for the high court to determine the fate of
the law, the 26 states, led by  Florida , said today the entire
measure should be invalidated. The Justice Department signaled
earlier this week that it will file its own Supreme Court appeal
in the case.  The Atlanta-based appeals court gave the states a partial
victory in their suit challenging the law, ruling that Congress
lacked the constitutional power to require people to either get
insurance or pay a penalty. At the same time, the court said it
would strike down only the insurance mandate, leaving intact
other provisions, including a requirement that insurers accept
applicants with pre-existing conditions.  There is “compelling evidence that Congress intended the
mandate to function as the act’s essential lynchpin and would
never have passed the act without it,” the states argued in a
Supreme Court filing.  The states are also asking the high court to review the
law’s expansion of Medicaid, the joint federal-state health-care
program for the poor. The appeals court upheld that provision,
rejecting contentions that it improperly coerces states into
spending additional money.  Pending Appeals  The states asked the high court to move quickly to review
the Affordable Care Act, as the law is known. With three appeals
now pending -- and a federal government appeal due in mid-
November -- the justices could consider the case early next year
and rule in June.  “Time is of the essence,” the states said in their
filing. “States need to know whether they must adapt their
policies to deal with the brave new world ushered in by the
ACA.”  The  Justice Department  is scheduled to file a brief today
in a separate Supreme Court case related to the health-care law.
In that dispute, a Michigan public interest law firm is seeking
review of a different appeals court’s conclusion that the law is
constitutional.  A small-business trade group, the  National Federation of
Independent Business , filed its own appeal earlier today, also
asking the high court to invalidate the law.  The states’ case is Florida v.  U.S. Department of Health 
and Human Services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  