-- 
Suntrust, M&T Win Delay in Overdraft-Fee Cases During Appeal

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   L a u r e n c e   V i e l e   D a v i d s o n
-- 
2011-09-28T21:20:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/suntrust-m-t-win-delay-in-florida-overdraft-fee-litigation-during-appeal.html
SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI) ,  M&T Bank Corp. (MTB) 
and two other banks accused of gouging customers on overdraft
fees won a delay of lawsuits against them while an appeals court
considers whether the plaintiffs have to go through arbitration.  U.S. District Judge James Lawrence King in Miami put the
case on hold as the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Atlanta reviews his
Sept. 1 decision allowing the plaintiffs -- customers with debit
cards attached to their checking accounts -- to proceed with
their lawsuits. King rejected the banks’ argument that the
customers were legally bound to arbitrate the dispute.  Arbitration agreements for SunTrust, M&T,  Regions Financial
Corp. (RF)  and  Branch Banking & Trust Co . are “unconscionable” and
can’t be enforced, King said in his opinion. He said the Supreme
Court ruling in AT&T Mobility LLC v. Concepcion, which involved
arbitration agreements for AT&T Inc. wireless customers, didn’t
require arbitration in every case.  In a two-page ruling today, King said the parties in the
case had agreed to the delay during the appeal.  Bruce Rogow, an attorney for the plaintiffs, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the order.  The litigation before King involves more than 30 banks sued
over their overdraft-fee policies. The customers claim the banks
reorder debit-card transactions in their computers to maximize
overdraft fees.  The plaintiffs’ lawyers argued that forcing customers into
arbitration would effectively bar millions of customers from
pursuing claims individually because they aren’t worth the
effort.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest U.S. bank, in February
agreed to pay $410 million without admitting liability to settle
an overdraft lawsuit brought by its customers.  The case is In Re Checking Account Overdraft Litigation,
09-cv-02036, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Florida 
(Miami).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey ,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Laurence Viele Davidson in Atlanta at 
 lviele@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 