-- 
Swaps Clearing Revenue Could Match Energy Rise, Analyst Says

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-09-28T14:28:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/swaps-clearing-revenue-could-match-energy-rise-analyst-says.html
Revenue growth for swaps
clearinghouse owners will take more time to materialize than
previously thought, though longer-term it could match the
increased sales of up to 27 times seen in energy clearing,
according to Keefe Bruyette & Woods.  CME Group Inc. (CME) , Intercontinental Exchange Inc. and  Nasdaq
OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  will be likely beneficiaries of changes mandated
by the Dodd-Frank Act to the $601 trillion over-the-counter
 derivatives market ,  Niamh Alexander , an analyst with Keefe
Bruyette in  New York , wrote in a note to clients yesterday.
While progressing slower than she thought, the changes should
bring new entrants to the market and increase sales, she said.  “The progress is slow but definite,” Alexander said in a
telephone interview today. “The train’s left the station and
we’re moving toward clearing.” She said by 2016 the legislation
could increase clearing revenue for  interest-rate , credit-
default, foreign exchange, equity and commodity OTC products by
$830 million to $1.2 billion. “The opportunity is real, it just
keeps getting pushed back.”  The analyst compared the growth potential to energy swaps
clearing. She estimated that revenue from processing crude oil
and natural gas swaps with a clearinghouse soared more than 27
times for CME Group and jumped nearly 9 times at
Intercontinental Exchange from 2003 to 2010.  Clearinghouses , which are capitalized by their members,
lessen the effects of default of users such as banks by
collecting daily margin, monitoring positions and standing
between buyers and sellers. Most swaps will have to be processed
by clearinghouses under mandates in Dodd-Frank.  New Rules  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission and Securities and
Exchange Commission are leading efforts to write rules to reduce
risk and boost transparency in swaps trades by firms including
Deutsche Bank AG,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and Cargill Inc. Dodd-Frank was
signed by President Barack Obama in July 2010 after trades in
the unregulated swaps market helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.  “We have lowered our estimate of the clearing opportunity
in the near-term as the rule-writing and implementation process
is moving more slowly than we expected,” Alexander wrote in the
note. She also said CME Group is in danger of missing an
opportunity to gain business in interest-rate swap clearing as
the regulation process drags on “and competitors have time to
launch their own interest rate clearing offerings in the U.S.”  CME Group, based in  Chicago , currently offers clearing of
interest-rate, credit-default and energy swaps, among others.
Atlanta-based  Intercontinental Exchange  offers credit-default
and energy swaps clearing. Nasdaq, based in New York, offers
interest-rate swap clearing.  LCH.Clearnet Ltd., based in  London , owns the world’s
largest interest-rate swap clearinghouse.  Intercontinental Exchange and the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , now owned by CME Group, started clearing energy swaps
after the bankruptcy of Enron Corp. shook investors’ faith in
trading partners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 