-- 
Swiss Stocks Decline After Three-Day Rally; Clariant Shares Fall in Zurich

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-09-28T16:10:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/swiss-stocks-fluctuate-clariant-givaudan-decline-on-downgrades.html
Swiss stocks retreated, snapping a
three-day rally, as a solution to the sovereign-debt crisis
continued to elude European Union leaders.  Chemical makers  Clariant AG (CLN)  and  Givaudan SA (GIVN)  led losses,
slipping more than 3 percent, after analysts cut their
recommendations.  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN) , Switzerland’s biggest
biotechnology company, climbed 3 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of the biggest and most
actively traded companies, dropped 0.2 percent to 5,551.65 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Zurich, after earlier rising as much as 1
percent. The gauge has tumbled 17 percent from its peak on Feb.
18 as disappointing European and U.S. economic reports added to
concern that the global recovery is faltering. The broader Swiss
Performance Index sank 0.3 percent today.  “The markets are still insecure,” said Benno Galliker, a
trader at Luzerner Kantonalbank in Lucerne,  Switzerland . “The
most pressing problem at the moment is  Greece . As long as the EU
doesn’t present a solution and continues to play for time, the
markets will remain troubled. The markets want facts, and that
is either a Greek default or a big restructuring.”  The SMI climbed to a two-month high yesterday amid
speculation policy makers will increase efforts to contain the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The Financial Times reported late yesterday that as many as
seven of the 17 nations using the euro believe private creditors
should absorb bigger losses on their Greek bond holdings, a
division that may threaten an agreement reached with private
investors in July. The newspaper cited unnamed senior European
officials.  Greek Parliamentary Backing  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  signaled policy makers may
review Greece’s second bailout after international debt
inspectors rule on whether the country is meeting the terms of
its current aid package.  Greece’s “numbers in September, as it now seems, were
again different from what we expected under the program,”
Merkel told Greek broadcaster NET when asked whether the second
bailout agreed by European leaders on July 21 will be revised.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won parliamentary
backing late yesterday for a property tax to meet deficit-
reduction targets required to avoid default.  ‘Extend and Pretend’  Papandreou winning the parliamentary vote “is a step
forward, but at the same time, the ultimate solution escapes
everyone’s imagination,” said Steen Jakobsen, chief economist
at Saxo Bank A/S, in an interview on Bloomberg Radio with Ken Prewitt. “I think we are dramatically in the final phase of
what I call the ‘extend and pretend’ scenario. We are extending,
buying time and we’re pretending there’s a credible solution to
Greece, and that Greece is the only problem in  Europe .”  Clariant, the world’s biggest maker of printing-ink
chemicals, slumped 3.8 percent to 8.33 Swiss francs as JPMorgan
Chase & Co. cut its recommendation on the company’s shares to
“underweight” from “neutral.”  Givaudan, the world’s biggest producer of cosmetics
chemicals, decreased 3.4 percent to 710 francs as Citigroup Inc.
downgraded the stock to “sell” from “hold.”  Aryzta AG (ARYN) , a Swiss supplier of bakery products to
supermarkets and restaurants, dropped 2.5 percent to 39.55
francs. Patrik Schwendimann, an analyst at Zuercher Kantonalbank
AG in Zurich, cut the shares to “market weight” from
“overweight.”  Holcim, Geberit  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the world’s second-biggest cement maker,
slumped 2.8 percent to 47.04 francs as a gauge of European
construction companies was among the worst performers of the 19
industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Geberit AG (GEBN) ,
Europe’s biggest maker of toilet flushing systems, lost 1.7
percent to 169.60 francs.  Actelion climbed 3 percent to 30.65 francs. The company’s
board elected Jean-Pierre Garnier as chairman, replacing Robert
Cawthorn, Actelion said in a statement after markets closed
yesterday.  Schindler Holding AG, a maker of escalators, rose 1 percent
to 101.80 francs. The company said Juergen Tinggren will take
over as chief executive officer on Oct. 1, replacing Alfred Schindler, who will remain chairman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  