-- 
Swiss Re’s Lippe Seeks to Invest Capital as Rival Buffett Buys Back Stock

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 
2011-09-28T22:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/swiss-re-s-lippe-seeks-to-invest-capital-as-rival-buffett-buys-back-stock.html
Swiss Re’s Stefan Lippe, chief
executive officer of the world’s second-biggest reinsurer, is
seeking to spend more of his company’s capital on underwriting
as rival  Warren Buffett  allocates cash to buybacks.  “We assume there will be significant opportunities, and it
will be very easy for us” to deploy capital in the business,
Lippe said yesterday in a telephone interview from Munich. A
buyback is “part of our tool kit. But at the moment we’d rather
like to explore the other possibilities we have.”  Lippe, 55, oversaw a gain of more than 10 percent in
property-casualty premiums earned in the second quarter.
Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , the No. 4 reinsurer, ended
June with $47.9 billion of cash and said this week it plans to
repurchase its first shares in at least 40 years. Zurich-based
Swiss Re said it had excess capital of more than $10 billion at
the end of December.  “If I had $45 billion excess capital and liquidity, I also
would think I can finance both growing at 60 percent-plus and”
a buyback, Lippe said. Buffett “never does dividends, so we at
minimum pay a dividend.”  Swiss Re paid a dividend of 2.75 Swiss francs a share in
April, up from 1 franc a year earlier. Buffett, Berkshire’s 81-
year-old chairman and CEO, has shunned dividends and instead
used the company’s capital to fund investments, acquisitions and
reinsurance underwriting.  Book Value  Swiss Re stock trades at about 63 percent of its book
value, the lowest of the world’s five biggest reinsurers. Losses
during the credit crunch three years ago prompted Swiss Re in
2009 to raise 3 billion francs ($3.3 billion) from Berkshire and
oust Lippe’s predecessor, Jacques Aigrain. Lippe repaid
Berkshire’s investment.  Munich Re , the largest provider of backstop coverage to
insurance companies, trades at about 81 percent of book; No. 3
 Hannover Re , 94 percent; No. 4 Berkshire, 108 percent; and No. 5
Scor SE, 78 percent. Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire got about
27 percent of its revenue last year from insurance and
reinsurance units, with the rest coming from businesses ranging
from railroads and energy to bricks and ice cream, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Berkshire has reported a stake of 3 percent in Swiss Re.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net 
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  