-- 
Syrian Forces Kill 69 in Five Days of Violence, Activist Says

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-09-28T07:13:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/syrian-forces-kill-69-in-five-days-of-violence-activist-says.html
Syrian security forces killed at
least 69 people, including two academics, in the past five days
as part of a crackdown on protests against President Bashar al- Assad’s government, an activist said.  At least 15 people were killed yesterday in the central
governorates of Homs and Hama, the northern province of Idlib
and in the southern area of Daraa, where the uprising against
Assad began in March, Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab
Organization for Human Rights, said by phone today.  General Nael al-Dakhil, deputy chief of the chemistry
faculty at Al-Baath University in Homs, and Mohammad Ali Akeel,
deputy dean of its architecture faculty, were killed, according
to state media, which said “terrorist groups” were
responsible. Activists said they were killed by security forces
after expressing opposition to the crackdown. Homs is a focal
point of the uprising against Assad’s government and the
hometown of his wife, Asma.  The protests are part of the wave of unrest across the
 Middle East  and North Africa that unseated governments in
Tunisia, Egypt and  Libya . Assad’s crackdown has left more than
3,600 civilians dead, according to Ammar Qurabi of the National
Organization for Human Rights in  Syria . About 30,000 people have
been detained and 13,000 are still being held, according to
Qurabi and Merhi.  The U.S. and European Union have imposed sanctions,
including bans on oil exports, and called on Assad to cede
power. They dropped efforts to impose United Nations sanctions
in order to win votes for a Security Council resolution
condemning the repression, a draft of which is due to be
circulated today. The government says its foreign enemies helped
instigate the unrest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  