-- 
U.K. Oil Industry Going as Far as New Zealand for Skilled Staff

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-09-28T11:51:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/u-k-oil-industry-going-as-far-as-new-zealand-for-skilled-staff.html
U.K. North Sea oil and gas
companies are seeking skilled senior managers as far away as  New
Zealand  because of wage inflation and a shortage of specialists
at home, recruiters said.  Worldwide, the oil and gas industry is going to lose at
least half its “high quality” experienced labor in the next 10
years because of retirement, said  David Doig , chief executive
officer at industry-funded training organization  OPITO . At the
same time, skilled workers without experience, so called green
hands, are trying to secure jobs and are even willing to pay up
front for their training.  “It can be quite difficult to penetrate,” Doig said in a
phone interview from Dubai. “If you speak to the drillers they
will tell you that they have no shortage of people applying to
get into the industry.” Problems arise when companies need
qualified people with experience. “It’s a very small crew.”  U.K. oil and gas field operators, such as  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Total
SA (FP) , have  programs that target graduates  and equip job candidates
with the required experience. OPITO is seeking workers,
predominantly with technical skills, in 36 countries from
 Africa , the  Middle East  and  Southeast Asia  to  Australia  and New
Zealand.  Maersk Oil, a unit of A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, has a
graduate hiring program, sending the trainees to various
locations during the first two years to get different
experience, said Martin Rune Pedersen, managing director at the
U.K. division. The company has hired more than 80 people locally
this year bringing the total to about 800 people.  Army, Navy Veterans  “We have recruited very, very heavily in 2011 and we’ve
been quite successful in lending very high-quality staff,” he
said in an interview in Aberdeen,  Scotland . “We rotate people
and we are very focused on career opportunities, and that’s what
keeps people in the company.”  The U.K. oil industry attracts Army or Navy veterans,
electricians and mechanics from the fishery industry and many
other skilled workers without experience at offshore platforms,
said Ann-Marie O’Connor-Hanlon, a director at  Rigman Offshore 
(UK) Ltd. At the same time, there is shortage of skilled senior
managers with experience in the offshore oil and gas industry,
such as tool-pushers, sub-sea engineers, chief electricians or
rig managers.  “We have noticed a marked increase in candidates
registering on our website, in particular those applying for
senior offshore positions,” O’Connor-Hanlon said, speaking in
an interview in Aberdeen, the center of the U.K. oil industry.
“Unfortunately, there is a great shortage of experienced
personnel and ideally we need to employ candidates who have a
good educational background such as university graduates.”  Chinese, Indian Engineers  Rigman extended its search for qualified people to  Latvia ,
 Nigeria , the  Philippines ,  South Korea ,  Croatia ,  Poland ,  India ,
New Zealand and Australia.  “We need engineers and we lack engineers globally,”
Patrice de Vivies, senior vice president for Northern Europe at
Total, said in Aberdeen. “We have more and more to count on
engineers coming from India or from  China .”  Aberdeen’s remote location and high property prices make it
difficult to convince people to move there, Doig said. Two-week
shifts at offshore rigs also make it difficult for people to
accept jobs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  