-- 
U.K. Stocks Decline as Man Group, Banks Drop; BG Group Rallies in London

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-09-28T16:02:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/u-k-stocks-decline-as-man-group-plunges-barclays-cairn-slide.html
U.K. stocks retreated for the first
time in four days, paring yesterday’s biggest rally for the  FTSE
100 Index (UKX)  in 16 months, as investors sought further signs that
policy makers are addressing Europe’s debt crisis.  Man Group Plc (EMG)  plunged 25 percent, the most in almost three
years, after the world’s largest hedge fund said assets under
management will drop by 8.5 percent. Banks also retreated,
snapping a three-day rally.  BG Group Plc (BG/)  paced advancing shares
after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recommended the oil producer.  The benchmark FTSE 100 slid 76.42, or 1.4 percent, to
5,217.63 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, after swinging
between gains and losses at least 10 times today. The gauge
yesterday jumped 4 percent. The broader FTSE All-Share Index
slid 1.4 percent while Ireland’s ISEQ Index fell 1 percent.  “Trader sentiment remains dominant,” said Ben Critchley,
a sales trader at IG Index in  London . “So long as mixed
messages keep emerging from politicians and central banks, the
threat of volatility will continue to loom.”  The Financial Times said yesterday that some euro-area
countries are demanding private creditors take bigger writedowns
on their Greek bond holdings. The European Commission said it’s
unaware of any move to increase private bondholders’ shares in
Greece’s next bailout.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel is waiting for a report
from the European Union, European Central Bank and  International
Monetary Fund  on Greece’s budget progress before deciding
whether revisions are needed to the finance package agreed in
July.  Debt Crisis  More than $3.5 trillion was wiped from equity values
globally last week amid concern policy makers are struggling to
contain a debt crisis that has Greece on the verge of a default.
The selloff has left the FTSE 100 trading at about 9.2 times the
estimated earnings of its companies, below the average multiple
of 11.4 during the past five years, Bloomberg data shows.  Man Group tumbled 25 percent to 180 pence after saying
assets under management will decline by $6 billion through
September amid “suppressed” demand for investment products.
Chief Executive Officer Peter Clarke said “extreme” volatility
in markets had “tested investor appetite for risk.”  Barclays Plc (BARC)  lost 1.2 percent to 166.4 pence today after
surging 21 percent the previous three trading days.  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  dropped 3.6 percent to 24.1 pence and HSBC
Holdings slid 2 percent to 510 pence.  Market Strains  The Bank of England’s Financial Policy Committee today said
market strains related to the euro-area debt crisis have dented
the outlook for bank earnings and may impede their ability to
strengthen balance sheets.  Cairn Energy Plc (CNE)  declined 6.5 percent to 276.5 pence,
erasing yesterday’s 5.2 percent rally, after abandoning its
third well in less than two months. The Scottish oil company
exploring in Greenland said it will plug the Delta-1 exploration
well in the Napariaq Block after failing to find “hydrocarbon
shows.”  Cairn had planned to drill as many as four wells off the
island at a cost of $600 million this year, it said in May. So
far, it has not found any commercially viable oil resources in
its two-year exploration campaign off the island.  Miners Slide  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  led mining companies lower as copper
declined in London. The stock slid 3.8 percent to 1,151 pence.
 Antofagasta Plc (ANTO)  lost 5.9 percent to 990 pence and  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining company, declined 4.1 percent
to 1,799 pence.  Bwin.Party Digital Entertainment Plc tumbled 6.7 percent to
119.2 pence after Germany’s highest civil court upheld a ban on
online gambling.  BG Group climbed 3.4 percent to 1,262.5 pence, one of just
13 companies to advance on the FTSE 100 today. Goldman Sachs
added the oil producer to its “conviction buy” list. The stock
yesterday paced a rally in energy companies as crude oil surged
more than 5 percent in  New York .  The Daily Mail, the Independent and the Guardian all
attributed yesterday’s move to speculation companies including
 China ’s CNOOC Ltd. may make a takeover offer for BG. The
newspapers did not cite anyone.  Melrose Plc (MRO)  climbed 4.6 percent to 303.3 pence after the
U.K. investment firm said it won’t proceed with an offer for
Charter International Plc because it isn’t in shareholders’ best
interests. Charter slipped 0.1 percent to 867.5 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  