-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Coffee Slumps on Record Robusta Crop

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-09-28T11:57:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-coffee-slumps-on-record-robusta-crop.html
The following are the top stories
on metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Coffee Falls in Rout as Starbucks Cup Costs $1.50: Commodities  Farmers from  Vietnam  to  Brazil  will supply a record robusta
crop in the marketing year that begins next month, extending a
slump in coffee futures that spurred Kraft Foods Inc. and J.M.
Smucker Co. to cut prices.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Maridive 2011 Revenue to Rise 24% on Contract Wins, CFO Says (1)  Maridive & Oil Services SAE, an Egyptian marine and oil
support services company, expects revenue to rise at least 24
percent to $400 million this year after winning contracts, Chief
Financial Officer Emad Fawzy said.  Wrong Reasons Hurt Corn, Says UN, as Morgan Stanley Bullish (2)  A plunge in corn prices may mislead growers that world
stockpiles have returned to normal, spurring farmers to cut
acreage and exacerbating a shortage of the grain used in foods,
fuels and animal feed, the  United Nations  said.  Yancoal May Spend $1 Billion Buying Australian Coal Mines (1)  Yancoal  Australia  Ltd., a unit of  China ’s fourth-largest
coal producer Yanzhou Coal Mining Co., is considering spending
more than $1 billion buying mines in Australia as global market
turmoil makes assets cheaper.  Russian Oil to Fall as Tax Spurs Urals Exports: Energy Markets  Russian Urals oil is poised to keep falling after trading
at an all-time high relative to its main benchmark grade as tax
changes and a new pipeline system boost exports via Baltic Sea
ports.  Russia Expands Ports to Regain Wheat Export Advantage: Freight  Russia is poised to again become the world’s second-biggest
wheat exporter as the nation’s largest grain-port overhaul
raises shipping capacity by as much as 67 percent in four years.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  LME Takeover Bids Mean Most at Stake for Goldman Sachs, UBS (2)  The potential sale of the London Metal Exchange, home to
the city’s last open-outcry trading, means Metdist Ltd., Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., MF Global (U.K.) Ltd., UBS AG and Sucden
Financial Ltd. have the most at stake.  IMF Asks Congo for Explanation on Sales of State Mining Assets  The  International Monetary Fund  asked two Democratic
Republic of Congo state-owned miners for explanations of recent
unannounced asset sales, according to documents on the website
of the country’s Mines Ministry.  Rio May Lure Chinese to Aluminum Assets, Deutsche Bank Says (1)  Rio Tinto Group, the second-biggest mining company, may
lure Chinese bidders as it seeks to sell as much as $4.1 billion
of aluminum assets, Deutsche Bank AG said.  Aluminum Product Shipments by Japan Drop for Third Month (1)  Japan’s shipments of rolled-aluminum products dropped 1.5
percent in August, the third straight monthly decline, as demand
weakened from can and electronics makers and exports were curbed
by a strong yen.  MINING:  Diamond Smuggling Risk Rising on Central African Fighting (1)  Fighting near Central African Republic’s diamond mines may
increase illegal gem-trafficking, according to a letter sent to
members of the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme, an
international accord to combat the trade in so-called conflict
diamonds.  BHP Sees Full Iron-Ore Order Book, No Ship Deferrals, RBC Says  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest miner, sees no
waning of iron-ore consumption amid a slowdown in the global
economy and its order books are full,  RBC Capital Markets  said,
citing a company presentation.  Norilsk Nickel Jumps as $4.5 Billion Buyback Starts Today (1)  OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel,  Russia ’s biggest mining company,
rose the most in 20 months in Moscow trading as it kicks off a
$4.5 billion buyback program today.  China’s Shougang Seeks to Buy Iron Ore Mine in West Africa (1)  Shougang Group, planning a $1 billion iron-ore mine
expansion in Peru, said it’s seeking to buy an ore mine in West
Africa and develop coal projects in Mongolia, Australia and
 Canada .  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Gains as Demand for Physical Bullion Strengthens After Rout  Gold gained for a second day in London as prices that
declined for three consecutive weeks spurred more demand for
physical bullion and on mounting concern that  Europe ’s debt
crisis will derail growth.  Central Rand Gold Falls to 4-Year Low After Losing Mining Right  Central Rand Gold Ltd. declined to the lowest in almost
four years after the company said it will approach the Pretoria
High Court in a bid to overturn a government decision to cancel
its mining right.  AGRICULTURE:  Mauritius Plans to Seek New Markets With More Sugar Output (1)  Mauritius plans to export sugar to four new markets after
increasing production this year.  Palm Oil Drops as European Debt Plan May Stall, Hurting Demand  Palm oil dropped, heading for a third quarterly decline, on
concern that European leaders are divided on plans to tame a
sovereign-debt crisis, potentially slowing the global economy
and hurting commodity demand.  Corn Drops as Global Growth Risk Outweighs Smaller U.S. Supply  Corn, soybean and wheat declined on speculation that
investors are taking money out of grains on signs of a weakening
global economy.  Cocoa Falls as Supply May Outpace Use a Second Year; Sugar Rises  Cocoa fell for the first time this week in  New York  on
speculation supplies will outpace demand a second year after a
record surplus this season. Sugar rose.  Syria Seeking 44,000 Tons of Rice in Tender That Closes Nov. 2  Syria is seeking to buy 44,000 metric tons of white rice in
a tender, according to the Syrian General Foreign Trade
Organization.  Japan  Purchases 5,600 Tons of Feed Wheat in Tender Today (1)  Japan bought 5,600 metric tons of feed wheat through a
tender system introduced to loosen government grain-import
controls, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries
said.  Rubber Tumbles to One-Year Low on Oil’s Fall, European Concern  Rubber slumped to a one-year low, reversing earlier gains,
as a drop in oil reduced the appeal of the commodity amid
speculation that European leaders are divided on plans to tame a
sovereign-debt crisis.  SHIPPING:  Sovcomflot Says Gazprom’s Shtokman Needs $4 Billion Fleet (1)  The OAO Gazprom-led Shtokman project to produce liquefied
natural gas, or LNG, from a Barents Sea field almost 600
kilometers (370 miles) from shore may require a $4 billion fleet
to transport the fuel.  ECONOMIES:  Euro Crisis Makes Fed Lender of Only Resort as Funding Ebbs (1)  The  Federal Reserve , chastised by Congress for lending
money to foreign institutions such as the  Central Bank  of  Libya ,
is once again the lender of last resort for banks around the
world it knows little about.  Papandreou Wins Property Tax Vote to Meet Rescue Aid Target (1)  Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou won parliamentary
backing for a property tax to meet deficit-reduction targets
required to avoid default, prompting an offer of support from
German Chancellor Angela Merkel.  EU Proposes Financial Transaction Tax to Start in 2014  The European Union proposed a financial-transactions tax
that would take effect in 2014 and raise about 57 billion euros
($78 billion) a year.  Deflation Woes Stalk ECB’s Monetary-Policy Outlook: Euro Credit  The increasing cost of insuring against deflation in Europe
suggests the  European Central Bank  will need to cut  interest
rates  to prevent an economic slump from exacerbating the
region’s debt crisis.  Dudley Proves This Isn’t Your Father’s New York Federal Reserve  It’s a quiet September morning outside the headquarters of
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on Liberty Street in
downtown Manhattan.  OTHER MARKETS:  S&P 500 Index Futures, Stocks Advance as Commodities Pare Losses  U.S. stock futures rose, indicating the benchmark Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index may extend the biggest three-day rally in a
month, and European shares rebounded. Commodities pared
declines, while the yen advanced.  Greek Debt Review May Mean More Bailout Talks, Merkel Says (1)  German Chancellor Angela Merkel signaled policy makers may
review the terms of  Greece ’s second bailout after international
debt inspectors finish the latest review of the country’s
finances.  EU Stiffens Deficit, Debt Rules to Prevent Further Debt Crises  The European Union toughened the enforcement of rules to
control budget deficits in a bid to prevent a repetition of the
Greece-triggered debt crisis that threatens the euro and global
growth.  Oil Falls, Heading for Quarterly Decline on Europe Debt Crisis  Oil fell in New York, heading for the biggest quarterly
decline since 2008, on speculation that fuel demand will drop as
the  U.S. economy  slows and Europe’s debt crisis batters consumer
sentiment.  SPORTS:  Tottenham Offers to Double Modric’s Salary, Mail Says: Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in  London  at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  