-- 
Massachusetts Man Charged With Plotting Attacks on Pentagon, U.S. Capitol

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-09-29T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/u-s-charges-26-year-0ld-citizen-with-plotting-attack-on-pentagon-capitol.html
A 26-year-old Massachusetts man was
charged with plotting to use remote-controlled planes filled
with plastic explosives for a terrorist attack on the Pentagon
and the U.S. Capitol in  Washington .  The suspect, Rezwan Ferdaus, a U.S. citizen from Ashland,
was arrested yesterday and charged with attempting to destroy
national defense premises, attempting to damage and destroy
buildings owned by the U.S. government and attempting to provide
material support and resources to al-Qaeda, the U.S. Justice
Department said in a statement.  A graduate of  Northeastern University  in  Boston  with a
physics degree, Ferdaus began plotting a “violent jihad”
against the U.S. early last year, the Justice Department said in
the statement. He modified mobile phones to act as electrical
switches for an improvised explosive device and then supplied
them to undercover FBI agents whom he believed to be members or
recruiters for al-Qaeda, the department said.  Ferdaus believed the devices would be used to kill U.S.
soldiers overseas and appeared “gratified” when told in June
2011 that his first device had killed three soldiers and wounded
four or five others in  Iraq , the  Justice Department  said.  Ferdaus told a cooperating witness in recorded
conversations that began in January that he planned to attack
the Pentagon with “small drone airplanes” filled with
explosives and guided by GPS equipment, the Justice Department
said. He expanded his plan in April to include an attack on the
U.S. Capitol.  Thumb Drives  In May and June, Ferdaus delivered to the undercover agents
two thumb drives containing plans for the attack, including
step-by-step instructions on how he would strike the Capitol and
the Pentagon, the Justice Department said in the statement.  He traveled to Washington from Boston in May and took
photographs of the two buildings, as well as sites at East
Potomac Park where he planned to launch the aircraft, the
Justice Department said. He also planned to use six people armed
with automatic firearms to sow chaos in the aftermath of the
attack.  Ferdaus selected two remote-controlled airplanes for his
attack plans, both of which were scaled-down versions of the F-4
Phantom and F-86 Sabre fighter jets, and acquired one of them,
said Gary S. Cacace, an FBI special agent, in a criminal
complaint. The planes are 5 feet to about 6 1/2 feet long.  Cover Story  Ferdaus created a false identity under the name “Dave
Winfield” for the purpose of acquiring the remote-controlled
airplane, opened a PayPal account with that name and made up a
cover story to explain why he wanted to buy the plane, telling
representatives of a Florida distributor that he was buying it
for his son, Cacace said in the complaint.  Ferdaus rented a storage unit in Framingham,  Massachusetts ,
under a false name in June 2011, and the remote-controlled plane
was delivered there in August, the Justice Department said.  On Sept. 27, on the morning before his arrest, the
undercover officers delivered 25 pounds of what Ferdaus believed
to be C-4 plastic explosive, six fully automatic AK-47 machine
guns and grenades, the Justice Department said. Ferdaus was
arrested yesterday after he brought the explosives to the
storage unit and locked them inside.  Ferdaus, who isn’t married and has no children, considers
the U.S. an “enemy of Allah,” Cacace said in the complaint. He
has a criminal record and has served time in prison, Cacace
said.  Killing ‘Kafirs’  “With the goal of terrorizing the  United States ,
decapitating its ‘military center’ and killing as many ‘kafirs,’
i.e., an Arabic term meaning non-believers, as possible, Ferdaus
extensively planned and attempted to attack the Pentagon and
U.S. Capitol,” Cacace said in the complaint.  Ferdaus’ conduct is “not reflective of a particular
culture, community or religion,” U.S. Attorney Carmen Ortiz in
Boston said in a statement. “In addition to protecting our
citizens from the threats and violence alleged yesterday, we
also have an obligation to protect members of every community,
race and religion against violence and other unlawful conduct.”  Ferdaus faces as long as 20 years in prison if convicted of
the most serious charges. He made an initial appearance in
federal court in Worcester, Massachusetts, yesterday and is
being held pending a detention hearing scheduled for Oct. 3,
Brandy Donini-Melanson, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Attorney’s
Office in Boston, said in a phone interview.  ‘Closely Monitored’  Ferdaus’s attorney, Catherine K. Byrne of the Federal
Public Defenders’  office  in Boston, didn’t immediately return a
voice-mail message seeking comment on the charges.  The public was never in danger from the explosive devices,
which were controlled by undercover FBI employees, and the
defendant was “closely monitored” while his plot developed,
the Justice Department said in the statement.  “The fact that Ferdaus is a very well-educated physicist
should serve as a reminder to us that that the threat of Islamic
terrorism transcends socioeconomics and does not only emanate
from the poor and underprivileged,” Republican Congressman
 Peter King  of New York, chairman of the House Homeland Security
Committee, said in a statement.  The case is U.S. v. Ferdaus, 11-mj-4270, U.S. District
Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York  at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  