-- 
Dow Chemical, Marriott May Invest in Kenya, U.S. Envoy Says

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-09-28T13:39:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/u-s-ambassador-says-dow-chemical-marriot-may-invest-in-kenya.html
U.S. Ambassador to  Kenya   Scott Gration  said he’s telling companies from the world’s biggest
economy including Marriott International Inc. to invest in the
East African country because of its growth potential.  Gration, appointed in April, said he has met with officials
from  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  and Marriott, the largest publicly trade
U.S. hotel chain, to discuss their intention to invest in Kenya.
 General Electric Co. (GE) , the world’s biggest provider of power-
generation equipment and services, and  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM) , the world’s largest computer-services provider,
want to expand their Kenyan presence, Gration said.  “I told the same thing to all of them,” he told American
business leaders today in Nairobi, the capital. “I told them
that now is a great time to invest in Kenya. Smart companies
should be positioning themselves for a bright future by
investing into Kenya right now.”  Investor confidence has been dented because of ethnic
clashes following Kenya’s presidential election in December
2007, Gration said. The fighting killed an estimated 1,500
people over two months in the East African nation before
President Mwai Kibaki signed a power-sharing accord with then-
opposition leader  Raila Odinga , who was named prime minister.  “There are a lot of companies holding back because they
are fearful that we’ll have a repeat of 2007,” Gration said.
“But I believe the future is brighter, and while maybe some
caution is prudent, now is the time” to invest.  Reasons for Optimism  The ongoing implementation of a constitution enacted a year
ago, coastal Kenya’s strategic position as a hub for regional
trade and the country’s “abundance” of well-educated people
are reasons for investor optimism, he said.  Gration, who learned to speak the local Swahili language as
a child living in Kenya and the Democratic Republic of Congo
with his missionary parents, was previously the U.S. special
envoy to  Sudan . He returned to Kenya in the 1980s as an
instructor pilot with the Kenyan air force.  He was a foreign-policy and national-security adviser in
the election campaign for President Barack Obama, whose late
father hailed from western Kenya, and worked as a special
assistant in Obama’s administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 