-- 
U.S. Metropolitan Area Employment Report for Aug. (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-09-28T14:16:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/u-s-metropolitan-area-employment-report-for-aug-text-.html
The following is the text of the
U.S. metropolitan area employment report for Aug. released by
the  METROPOLITAN AREA EMPLOYMENT AND UNEMPLOYMENT -- AUGUST 2011  Unemployment rates were lower in August than a year earlier in
262 of the 372 metropolitan areas, higher in 84 areas, and
unchanged in 26 areas, the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics 
reported today. Nine areas recorded jobless rates of at least
15.0 percent, while 10 areas registered rates of less than 5.0
percent. Two hundred thirty-eight metropolitan areas reported
over-the-year increases in nonfarm payroll employment, 127
reported decreases, and 7 had no change. The national
unemployment rate in August was 9.1 percent, not seasonally
adjusted, down from 9.5 percent a year earlier.  Metropolitan Area Unemployment (Not Seasonally Adjusted)  In August, 100 metropolitan areas reported jobless rates of at
least 10.0 percent, down from 119 areas a year earlier, while 74
areas posted rates below 7.0 percent, up from 55 areas in August
2010. El Centro, Calif., and Yuma, Ariz., recorded the highest
unemployment rates in August 2011, 32.4 and 29.4 percent,
respectively. All of the remaining seven areas with jobless
rates of at least 15.0 percent were located in  California .
Bismarck, N.D., registered the lowest unemployment rate, 3.0
percent. The areas with the next lowest rates were Lincoln, Neb.,
and Fargo, N.D.-Minn., 3.6 and 3.9 percent, respectively. A
total of 217 areas recorded August unemployment rates below the
U.S. figure of 9.1 percent, 149 areas reported rates above it,
and 6 areas had rates equal to that of the nation.  The largest over-the-year unemployment rate decrease in August
was registered in Farmington, N.M. (-3.0 percentage points),
followed by Steubenville-Weirton, Ohio-W.Va., and Sebastian-Vero
Beach, Fla. (-2.4 and -2.3 points, respectively). An additional
81 areas recorded rate decreases of at least a full percentage
point. Pascagoula, Miss., reported the largest over-the-year
jobless rate increase (+1.7 percentage points). Three other
areas had increases of 1.0 percentage point or more from a year
earlier.  In the 49 metropolitan areas with a Census 2000 population of 1
million or more, the highest unemployment rates in August were
registered in Las Vegas-Paradise, Nev.,and Riverside-San
Bernardino-Ontario, Calif., 14.2 and 14.1 percent, respectively.
Fourteen additional large areas had rates of 10.0 percent or
more. The lowest jobless rate among the large areas was recorded
in  Oklahoma City , Okla., 5.0 percent. Thirty-eight of the large
areas reported over-the-year unemployment rate decreases, while
four areas registered rate increases and seven had no change.
Portland-Vancouver-Hillsboro, Ore.-Wash., experienced the
largest unemployment rate decrease from August 2010 (-1.5
percentage points). Twelve other large areas reported rate
decreases of at least 1.0 percentage point. The large area with
the largest over-the-year jobless rate increase was Memphis,
Tenn.-Miss.-Ark. (+0.5 percentage point).  Metropolitan Division Unemployment (Not Seasonally Adjusted)  Eleven of the most populous metropolitan areas are made up of 34
metropolitan divisions, which are essentially separately
identifiable employment centers. In August 2011, Detroit-
Livonia-Dearborn, Mich., registered the highest jobless rate
among the divisions, 14.4 percent. Framingham, Mass., reported
the lowest division rate, 5.3 percent.  Twenty-nine of the metropolitan divisions recorded over-the-year
jobless rate decreases in August, three registered increases,
and two had no change. Brockton-Bridgewater-Easton, Mass.,
posted the largest rate decline from a year earlier (-1.5
percentage points). Ten additional divisions reported rate
decreases of 1.0 percentage point or more. Chicago-Joliet-
Naperville, Ill., experienced the largest unemployment rate
increase from a year earlier (+0.7 percentage point).  In 6 of the 11 metropolitan areas that contain divisions, the
ranges between the highest and lowest division jobless rates
were 2.0 percentage points or more in August. Boston-Cambridge-
Quincy, Mass.-N.H., recorded the largest rate difference among
its divisions, 5.8 percentage points (Lawrence-Methuen-Salem,
Mass.-N.H., 11.1 percent, compared with Framingham, Mass., 5.3
percent).  Metropolitan Area Nonfarm Employment (Not Seasonally Adjusted)  In August, 238 metropolitan areas reported over-the-year
increases in nonfarm payroll employment, 127 reported decreases,
and 7 had no change. The largest over-the-year employment
increase occurred in Houston-Sugar Land-Baytown,  Texas  (+65,600),
followed by New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, N.Y.-N.J.-
Pa. (+57,400), Boston-Cambridge-Quincy, Mass.-N.H. (+50,600),
and Dallas-Fort Worth-Arlington, Texas (+50,200). The largest
over-the-year percentage gain in employment was reported in Hot
Springs, Ark. (+9.7 percent), followed by Pittsfield, Mass., and
Sandusky,  Ohio  (+8.2 percent each), and Rochester-Dover, N.H.-
 Maine  (+6.1 percent).  The largest over-the-year decreases in employment occurred in
Atlanta-Sandy Springs-Marietta, Ga. (-30,800), Kansas City, Mo.-
Kan. (-12,600), Philadelphia-Camden-Wilmington, Pa.-N.J.-Del.-Md.
(-11,200), and Indianapolis-Carmel, Ind. (-10,300). The largest
over-the-year percentage decreases in employment were reported
in Abilene, Texas (-4.7 percent),  Battle Creek , Mich. (-3.9
percent), Missoula, Mont. (-3.8 percent), and Atlantic City-
Hammonton, N.J. (-3.6 percent).  Over the year, nonfarm employment rose in 29 of the 36
metropolitan areas with annual average employment levels above
750,000 in 2010. The largest over-the-year percentage increases
in employment in these large metropolitan areas were in San
Jose-Sunnyvale-Santa Clara, Calif. (+3.4 percent), Houston-Sugar
Land-Baytown, Texas (+2.6 percent), and Milwaukee-Waukesha-West
Allis, Wis. (+2.5 percent). The largest over-the-year percentage
decreases in employment occurred in Atlanta-Sandy Springs-
Marietta, Ga. (-1.4 percent),  Kansas City , Mo.-Kan. (-1.3
percent), and Indianapolis-Carmel, Ind. (-1.2 percent).  Metropolitan Division Nonfarm Employment (Not Seasonally
Adjusted)  Nonfarm payroll employment data were available in August 2011
for 32 metropolitan divisions, which are essentially separately
identifiable employment centers within a metropolitan area.
Twenty-five of the 32 metropolitan divisions reported over-the-
year employment gains, while 7 reported losses. The largest
over-the-year increase in the metropolitan divisions occurred in
New York-White Plains-Wayne, N.Y.-N.J. (+84,200), followed by
Dallas-Plano-Irving, Texas (+35,100), Boston-Cambridge-Quincy,
Mass. (+34,300), and Seattle-Bellevue-Everett, Wash. (+32,400).
The largest over-the-year decreases in the metropolitan
divisions were in Edison-New Brunswick, N.J. (-15,900), Nassau-
Suffolk, N.Y. (-13,000), and Philadelphia, Pa. (-7,700).  The largest over-the-year percentage increases in employment
among the metropolitan divisions were reported in Brockton-
Bridgewater-Easton, Mass. (+2.7 percent), Seattle-Bellevue-
Everett, Wash. (+2.4 percent), and Boston-Cambridge-Quincy, Mass.
(+2.1 percent). The largest over-the-year percentage decreases
in employment were in Gary, Ind. (-2.0 percent), Wilmington,
Del.-Md.-N.J. (-1.7 percent), and Edison-New Brunswick, N.J. (-
1.6 percent).  _____________________
The Regional and State Employment and Unemployment news release
for September is scheduled to be released on Friday, October 21,
2011, at 10:00 a.m. (EDT). The Metropolitan Area Employment and
Unemployment news release for September is scheduled to be
released on Wednesday, November 2, 2011, at 10:00 a.m. (EDT).  Technical Note  This release presents  labor force  and unemployment data from the
Local Area Unemployment Statistics (LAUS) program (tables 1 and
2) for 372 metropolitan statistical areas and metropolitan New
England City and Town Areas (NECTAs), plus 8 areas in  Puerto
Rico .  Estimates for 34 metropolitan and NECTA divisions also
are presented.  Nonfarm payroll employment estimates from the
Current Employment Statistics (CES) program (tables 3 and 4) are
provided for most of the same areas. State estimates were
previously published in the news release, Regional and State
Employment and Unemployment, and are republished in this release
for ease of reference. The LAUS and CES programs are both
federal-state cooperative endeavors.  Labor force and unemployment--from the LAUS program  Definitions.  The labor force and unemployment data are based on
the same concepts and definitions as those used for the official
national estimates obtained from the Current Population Survey
(CPS), a sample survey of households that is conducted for the
Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) by the U.S. Census Bureau.  The
LAUS program measures employment and unemployment on a place-of-
residence basis.  The universe for each is the civilian
noninstitutional population 16 years of age and over.  Employed
persons are those who did any work at all for pay or profit in
the reference week (the week including the 12th of the month) or
worked 15 hours or more without pay in a family business or farm,
plus those not working who had a job from which they were
temporarily absent, whether or not paid, for such reasons as
labor-management dispute, illness, or vacation.  Unemployed
persons are those who were not employed during the reference
week (based on the definition above), had actively looked for a
job sometime in the 4-week period ending with the reference week,
and were currently available for work; persons on layoff
expecting recall need not be looking for work to be counted as
unemployed.  The labor force is the sum of employed and
unemployed persons.  The unemployment rate is the number of
unemployed as a per-cent of the labor force.  Method of estimation.  Estimates for states, the  District of
Columbia , the Los Angeles-Long Beach-Glendale metropolitan
division, and  New York City  are produced using time-series
models with real-time benchmarking to national CPS totals.
Model-based estimation was extended to the following areas and
their respective balances of state in 2005:  the Chicago-Joliet-
Naperville, IL Metropolitan Division; Cleveland-Elyria-Mentor,
OH Metropolitan Statistical Area; Detroit-Warren-Livonia, MI
Metropolitan Statistical Area; Miami-Miami Beach-Kendall, FL
Metropolitan Division; New Orleans-Metairie-Kenner, LA
Metropolitan Statistical Area; and Seattle-Bellevue-Everett, WA
Metropolitan Division.  (Model-based estimation of the New
Orleans-Metairie-Kenner metropolitan area was suspended
following  Hurricane Katrina ; the indirect estimation methods
described below will be used for this area until further
notice.)  Modeling improves the statistical basis of the
estimation for these areas and provides important tools for
analysis, such as measures of errors and seasonally adjusted
series. For all other substate areas in this release, estimates
are prepared through indirect estimation procedures using a
building-block approach. Employment estimates, which are based
largely on “place of work” estimates from the CES program, are
adjusted to refer to place of residence as used in the CPS.
Unemployment estimates are aggregates of persons previously
employed in industries covered by state unemployment insurance
(UI) laws and entrants to the labor force data from the CPS. The
substate estimates of employment and unemployment, which
geographically exhaust the entire state, are adjusted
proportionally to ensure that they add to the independently
estimated state or balance-of-state totals.  A detailed
description of the estimation procedures is avail-able from BLS
upon request.  Annual revisions.  Labor force and unemployment data shown for
the prior year reflect adjustments made at the end of each year,
usually implemented with January estimates.  The adjusted model-
based estimates reflect updated population data from the U.S.
Census Bureau, any revisions in the other data sources, and
model reestimation.  All substate estimates are reestimated and
adjusted to add to the revised model-based estimates.  Employment--from the CES program  Definitions.  Employment data refer to persons on establishment
payrolls who receive pay for any part of the pay period that
includes the 12th of the month.  Persons are counted at their
place of work rather than at their place of residence; those
appearing on more than one payroll are counted on each payroll.
Industries are classified on the basis of their principal
activity in accordance with the 2007 version of the North
American Industry Classification System.  Method of estimation.  The employment data are estimated using a
“link relative” technique in which a ratio (link relative) of
current-month employment to that of the previous month is
computed from a sample of establishments reporting for both
months.  The estimates of employment for the current month are
obtained by multiplying the estimates for the previous month by
these ratios.  Small-domain models are used as the official
estimators for the approximately 39 percent of CES published
series which have insufficient sample for direct sample-based
estimates.  Annual revisions.  Employment estimates are adjusted annually to
a complete count of jobs, called benchmarks, derived principally
from tax reports that are submitted by employers who are covered
under state un-employment insurance (UI) laws.  The benchmark
information is used to adjust the monthly estimates between the
new benchmark and the preceding one and also to establish the
level of employment for the new benchmark month.  Thus, the
benchmarking process establishes the level of employ-ment, and
the sample is used to measure the month-to-month changes in the
level for the subsequent months.  Area definitions  The substate area data published in this release reflect the
standards and definitions established by the U.S. Office of
Management and Budget on December 1, 2009.  Data reflect New
England City and Town Area (NECTA) definitions, rather than
county-based definitions, in the six New England States.  A
detailed list of the geographic definitions is available at
www.bls.gov/lau/lausmsa.htm. 