-- 
U.S. Reviews Whether to Designate Pakistan’s Haqqani Network as Terrorists

-- B y   J o h n   W a l c o t t   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-09-28T20:58:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/u-s-refrains-from-declaring-haqqani-terrorist-group-on-pakistan-concerns.html
The Obama administration is in the
final stages of a “formal review” on whether to declare the
Pakistan-based Haqqani group a “foreign terrorist
organization,” U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said.  The administration’s review comes in the aftermath of
comments by Admiral Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, who said last week that the group attacked the U.S.
embassy and American troops in Afghanistan.  Clinton said today that the issue is whether to designate
the Haqqani group a terrorist organization when its “main
kingpins,” including the founder and his sons, already have
been sanctioned individually as foreign terrorists.  Mullen’s declaration in Senate testimony last week that
Haqqani operatives are a “proxy” for Pakistan’s intelligence
service has complicated the debate.  Adding the Haqqani group to the list of terrorist
organizations might lead to demands that Pakistan be declared a
state sponsor of terrorism. That would put at risk  Pakistan ’s
cooperation as the U.S. tries to snuff out al-Qaeda’s core and
other militants in the country’s tribal areas.  Clinton, speaking to reporters at the State Department, did
not address the alleged connection between the Haqqani network
and Pakistan’s intelligence service. She said the U.S. has had
“a lot of tangible results” from anti-terrorism cooperation
with Pakistan, including moves against al-Qaeda.  State Sponsors  Designating Pakistan a state sponsor of terrorism would put
it in the company of only four other countries -- Cuba, Iran,
Sudan and  Syria  -- and might trigger a nationalist backlash in
Pakistan. It would require halting U.S. aid to Pakistan, force
the U.S. to oppose World Bank loans to Pakistan, and end
cooperation between the two countries in fighting terrorism and
trying to stabilize Afghanistan.  Naming Pakistan a sponsor of terrorism “would turn it into
a pariah state,” Robert Lamb, a senior fellow at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in  Washington , said in a
telephone interview. “That would complicate a lot of aspects of
the relationship, which is complicated enough already. It’s
ugly, but it’s not unsalvageable.”  The administration is under new pressure to designate the
Haqqanis a terrorist organization alongside 49 others, including
al-Qaeda, Lebanon’s Hezbollah, and Hamas, the Palestinian
Islamist group that controls the  Gaza Strip .  Congressional Pressure  After Mullen testified to the Senate Armed Services
Committee, Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a California Democrat and
chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, wrote Secretary
of State Hillary Clinton that the Haqqani group “meets the
standards for designation” as a terrorist organization. So far,
said congressional officials, Clinton hasn’t responded.  “I think there’s going to be increasing congressional
pressure on them to list the Haqqani network as a foreign
terrorist organization,” said Lisa Curtis, a former CIA analyst
and now a senior research fellow at the  Heritage Foundation 
policy group in Washington.  “If we know that the Haqqani network is behind these major
attacks on U.S. interests and we fail to confront them, that is
a signal of weakness and it simply invites more attacks,” she
said.  Nuland and other administration and military officials
signaled a reluctance to sanction Pakistan.  ‘Common Interests’  Pentagon Press Secretary George Little said yesterday that
the U.S. wants to “maintain a relationship with Pakistan that’s
grounded in common interests, to include going after terrorists
that threaten both countries.”  “There are differences from time to time,” Little told
reporters at the Pentagon. “Those differences have been made
public, and we continue to discuss those differences in private.
We look forward to working with the Pakistanis to try to resolve
them.”  Today, Little took a harder line, telling reporters that
Defense Secretary Leon Panetta agrees with Mullen’s testimony.
“The Secretary and Chairman both agree” there are “links
between elements of the Pakistan government and Haqqani
network,” Little said.  “That includes the ISI,” Little said. “That must end.”  Pakistani military officials told reporters in Islamabad on
Sept. 25 that they had decided not to take action against the
Haqqani group because their forces are stretched too thin.  Cooperation Jeopardized  If tensions escalated, Pakistan might again, as it did in a
previous diplomatic confrontation, cut supply lines to U.S.,
NATO and Afghan forces in  Afghanistan  from its port city of
Karachi. Alternative land or air routes are more costly and
difficult.  The Pakistanis, said two U.S. intelligence officials, also
might abandon secret agreements that permit unmanned U.S. drones
to collect intelligence and attack targets in designated areas
of Pakistan.  The U.S. already is restricted from operating over the
Haqqanis’ suspected base in North Waziristan or the border city
of Quetta, home to the main Afghan Taliban group. They also
might expel some or all of the classified number of U.S.
intelligence officers and special operations forces who are
training Pakistani troops and helping target drone attacks, the
officials said.  Designating the Haqqani network a terrorist organization
would do little to stop the group, said Curtis of the Heritage
Foundation. The Haqqanis, she said, probably still would be able
to garner financial support from their allies in the Persian
Gulf region and backing from the Pakistan spy agency, the
Directorate of Inter-Services Intelligence, known as ISI.  India  Factor  A U.S. designation of the Haqqanis isn’t likely to change
Pakistani policy either, said Christine Fair, a Pakistan expert
at  Georgetown University  in Washington.  The ISI and the Pakistani military regard the Haqqani
network and other militants as allies in their campaign to
maintain Pakistani influence in Afghanistan and prevent arch-
rival India from getting a toehold on Pakistan’s western border,
said Fair and other specialists.  “They believe that the Haqqanis would protect Pakistan’s
interest in any future setup in Afghanistan,” Curtis said.  Rejecting the charges that his government uses the Haqqanis
as a proxy, Pakistani Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  said in
a Sept. 25 statement that U.S. policy on Afghanistan shows
“confusion and policy disarray.”  “We may just let this ride,” said Marvin Weinbaum, a
former Afghanistan and Pakistan intelligence analyst at the
State Department and director of the Center for Pakistan Studies
at the Middle East Institute in Washington. “We know what
direction the U.S.-Pakistan relationship is going, and now we
have no idea what the bottom looks like.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  