-- 
U.S. Opposes Loans to Argentina in Bid To Step Up Pressure for Debt Accord

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-09-28T15:50:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/u-s-opposes-loans-to-argentina-in-bid-to-boost-pressure-for-debt-accord.html
The U.S. is seeking to halt development
loans to Argentina as a way of pressuring President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  to make payments owed investors and settle
with holders of defaulted debt.  The U.S. voted against financing two projects for Argentina
valued at a combined $232 million this month at the Inter-
American Development Bank, a spokeswoman for the Treasury
Department said yesterday. The Obama administration also plans
to vote against additional lending from the World Bank, Marisa Lago, Treasury’s assistant secretary for international markets
and development, told lawmakers last week.  While the U.S. alone can’t prevent the Washington-based
institutions from making the loans, the move is the strongest to
date against Fernandez, who polls show will win a second, four-
year term in elections next month. It also responds to concerns
of some U.S. lawmakers as Treasury asks Congress for $3.4
billion in  foreign aid  next year, including $357 million in
additional capital for development banks.  “This is a very strong signal on the part of the U.S. that
they are very unhappy with  Argentina ,” said Claudio Loser, an
Argentine economist who oversaw Latin America at the
 International Monetary Fund  from 1994 to 2002. It “will be seen
positively in Congress.”  Budget Plan  Officials at Argentina’s Economy Ministry didn’t respond to
e-mail and phone messages left by Bloomberg seeking comment.  Argentina, which has been locked out of international debt
markets since its record 2001 default on $95 billion of bonds,
is counting on about 15 billion pesos ($3.6 billion) of loans
from international lenders in its draft 2012 budget, being taken
up by Congress today.  Fernandez, who last year restructured $12.9 billion of
bonds remaining from the default, has yet to reach a promised
agreement over as much as $9 billion with the  Paris Club  group
of creditor nations.  The U.S. also wants  South America ’s second-biggest economy
to pay judgments ordered by the World Bank’s International
Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes, for companies
including Azurix Corp., which specializes in water services and
investment. The Houston-based company received a 30-year
concession from Argentina in 1999 and is owed $235 million,
including interest, for breach-of-contract, according to its
president, Rod Castillo.  ‘Rectify These Policies’  “Argentina has failed to honor its commitments as a member
of the Group of 20 and its obligations to the IMF, the Paris
Club and” the arbitration panel, Treasury spokeswoman Kara
Alaimo said via e-mail. “We have consistently told the
Argentine authorities that they must rectify these policies.”  Argentine Finance Secretary Hernan Lorenzino has said
holders of $4 billion in defaulted debt are “vulture funds”
pursuing litigation against the country, which he said has made
a good-faith effort to address the default in two
restructurings.  The IDB, where the U.S. has a 30 percent voting share,
granted Argentina $1.2 billion of loans last year. That compares
with $2.2 billion in the fiscal year ended June 30 from the
 World Bank , where the U.S., as the largest shareholder, has 16
percent of votes.  Loans pending  approval  at the IDB this year include $300
million to improve road infrastructure in the north of the
country and $250 million for water and sanitation in the Buenos
Aires metropolitan area.  Lago last week announced the new measures when the House
Financial Services Committee’s panel that oversees development
banks expressed concerns about Argentina not respecting its
international obligations while continuing to receive funding
from multilateral institutions. The U.S. won’t vote against
projects that target poor and vulnerable populations, Lago said.  Capital Increase  The move is “a tactical decision” by Treasury, which is
trying to secure backing from Congress for the capital increase
of several development banks, including the IDB and the  African
Development Bank , said Whitney Debevoise, a former U.S.
representative to the World Bank. Failing to obtain funding
because of Argentina would hurt many other nations, he said.  “When you have the capital increases as an issue and you
risk punishing every other country, you sometimes do what you
have to do,” Debevoise, a senior partner at Washington law firm
Arnold & Porter LLP, said in a phone interview.  Representative Don Manzullo, an Illinois Republican and
member of the House Financial Services Committee, said Treasury
has made “the right move.” He said he had asked Treasury to
take a tougher stand on Argentina.  “I said ‘The World Bank’s not going to get replenished as
long as Argentina continues to be in default and screw American
investors, especially at a time when small businesspeople can’t
get loans,’” Manzullo said in a phone interview yesterday.  Breached Contract  Azurix President Castillo also saw the decision as “a step
in the right direction.” His company had its contract to
provide water services in the  Buenos Aires province  breached in
2001. The arbitration panel ordered Argentina to pay Azurix $165
million plus interest in 2006.  Argentina has also run afoul of the IMF. The country is the
only member of the G-20 that has refused to comply with an
annual assessment of its economy by IMF staff. Nicolas Eyzaguirre, head of the IMF for  Latin America , last week called
on Argentina to improve its system for reporting inflation,
which private researchers say doesn’t reflect price increases of
as much as 25 percent per year. That compares with the 9.8
percent in August reported by the national statistics agency.  The U.S. might find allies in other Paris club members that
are losing patience with Argentina, said Loser, who estimates
Argentina can’t afford to lose the funding. Paris Club nations
include Germany and  Japan .  Guillermo Nielsen, a former Argentine finance secretary who
oversaw the country’s defaulted debt restructuring in 2005, said
other Group of Seven countries might follow the U.S. lead.  “This is neither pleasant, nor constructive,” Nielsen,
now a consultant, said in an interview yesterday. “It will need
to be resolved, it’s not something that goes unnoticed or that
you can remain indifferent to.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net 
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  