-- 
U.S. Provides $136 Million to Develop Transportation Biofuel

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 
2011-09-28T20:23:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/u-s-provides-136-million-to-develop-transportation-biofuel-1-.html
The  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
is giving researchers and companies $136 million in grants to
produce transportation fuels from trees and grass.  Washington State University and the  University of
Washington  are getting $40 million each to lead teams developing
techniques to make gasoline and aircraft fuels from trees,
according to an e-mailed statement today from the agency.  Iowa
State University , the University of  Louisiana , and the
University of Tennessee also received grants.  The Agriculture Department is awarding the funds as part of
an effort to reduce U.S. dependence on imported oil and develop
fuels that will have less-harmful effects on the environment
than petroleum-based products, according to the statement.  Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack announced the grants at
Seattle-Tacoma International Airport. Providing that airport
with renewable  aviation fuel  is among the goals of the project
led by Washington State University.  The funds will flow to universities, companies and other
organizations in 22 states.  Weyerhaeuser Co. (WY) , Gevo Inc., and
ZeaChem Inc. are among the recipients.  ZeaChem received about $12 million as part of the
University of Washington-led group and is building a plant near
Boardman, Oregon, that will convert hybrid poplar trees into jet
and diesel fuel, according to the closely held company’s Chief
Executive Officer Jim Imbler.  The grant “gains us a year or so in the marketplace
because it allows us just to start earlier,” Imbler said today
on a media conference call.  Gevo received $5 million as part of the Washington State
University-led group and is also focusing on aviation. The
Englewood, Colorado-based company will use the funds to optimize
its yeast-fermentation technology to convert wood into
isobutanol, which will be processed into jet fuel, according to
a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  