-- 
U.S. Stocks Retreat as Concern Grows Over European Debt Crisis

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-09-28T20:35:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/u-s-stock-futures-climb-indicating-s-p-500-will-extend-three-day-rally.html
U.S. stocks declined, halting a
three-day rally for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, amid
growing concern that European leaders are divided over how to
handle  Greece ’s debt crisis.  All 10 industry groups in the S&P 500 fell at least 0.6
percent, with companies most-tied to economic growth dropping
the most.  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  and  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  slid at least 4.9
percent as commodities tumbled. Morgan Stanley and  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  lost more than 4.9 percent, pacing declines among
financial shares.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  rose 2.5 percent after the
company launched its Kindle Fire tablet computer, taking aim at
Apple Inc.’s bestselling iPad.  The S&P 500 lost 2.1 percent to 1,151.06 at 4 p.m. New York
time, after rising as much as 0.8 percent earlier and rallying
4.1 over the previous three days. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  fell 179.79 points, or 1.6 percent, to 11,010.90 today,
with all 30 stocks retreating.  “ Europe  is the issue that is first and foremost in
everyone’s mind, so any news that comes out on that does have a
strong impact on the market,”  Peter Jankovskis , who helps
manage about $2.6 billion at Oakbrook Investments in Lisle,
 Illinois , said in a telephone interview. “Any weakness there is
going to be a drag worldwide.”  A four-day rout last week erased $1 trillion from U.S.
equities amid concern Greek insolvency is inevitable and Europe
can’t contain the damage. The decline left the  S&P 500  trading
at 12.4 times earnings in the past 12 months, 4.4 percent below
its average valuation at the lowest point during the last nine
bear markets, Bloomberg data shows.  Bigger Writedowns  Stocks fell today as an official said the European
Commission is resisting a push to impose bigger writedowns on
banks’ holdings of Greek government debt than those agreed at a
July 21 summit. The commission opposes ideas that are being
floated by some government officials to get banks to accept
bigger so-called haircuts and doesn’t want to have talks about
any such attempt, the official said on condition of anonymity
because the deliberations are private.  Italian and Spanish financial market regulators extended
temporary bans on short selling of financial shares that were
introduced last month in a bid to stem market volatility, the
European Securities and Markets Authority said.  The S&P 500 had climbed over the past three days amid
optimism that euro-area nations were making progress on plans to
tame the region’s government debt crisis.  ‘Pins and Needles’  “The market is on pins and needles over the whole European
debt problem,” Thomas Garcia, head of equity trading at  Santa
Fe , New Mexico-based Thornburg Investment Management Inc., which
oversees about $75 billion, said in an e-mail. “Every new rumor
or little piece of news moves the market in one direction or the
other a percent or two. It’s frustrating!”  Stocks rose earlier today as a Commerce Department report
showed orders for U.S. capital goods climbed in August by the
most in three months, a sign business investment continues to
support the recovery. Bookings for goods like computers and
communications gear, excluding military hardware and aircraft,
climbed 1.1 percent, the most since May. Demand for total
durable goods dropped 0.1 percent, less than forecast.  The S&P 500 has been trading between about 1,100 and 1,300
since the beginning of August. The benchmark gauge for U.S.
equities climbed as high as 1,363.61 on April 29, before
starting a decline of as much as 18 percent through August. The
index is down 8.5 percent for the year. Strategists estimate it
will climb to 1,305 by year-end, representing a 13 percent
advance, according to the average in a Bloomberg survey.  Commodity Companies  Raw-material companies fell the most among 10 groups in the
S&P 500 today, tumbling 4.5 percent. Energy shares lost 3
percent as a group, as the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index
of 19 commodities fell 2.5 percent. The  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Cyclical
Index of companies most-tied to the economy lost 3.3 percent.
The Dow Jones Transportation Average, a proxy for the economy,
lost 2.9 percent.  Alcoa fell 4.9 percent to $9.97. Dow Chemical, the largest
U.S. chemical maker, slid 6.2 percent to $23.76.  The KBW Bank Index lost 3.5 percent, with Morgan Stanley
falling 5.4 percent to $14.16. Bank of America slid 4.9 percent
to $6.16, for the largest decline today for the Dow. A group of
S&P 500 financial shares have plunged 27 percent since the April
high, the biggest drop among the 10 industry groups. Utilities
companies have been the only group to gain, adding 1.2 percent
in the same period.  Amazon.com shares rose 2.5 percent, the second-most in the
S&P 500, to $229.71. The world’s largest online retailer
introduced its Kindle Fire, a device that’s smaller and less
than half the price of Apple’s iPad. Chief Executive Officer
 Jeff Bezos  is betting he can leverage Amazon’s dominance in e-
commerce to pose a challenge to the iPad, after tablets from
rivals such as Hewlett-Packard Co. and Research In Motion Ltd.
have fallen short.  Jabil Circuit Inc., gained the most in the benchmark index,
adding 8.4 percent to $18.84. The U.S. contract electronics
manufacturer forecast first-quarter earnings will be at least 62
cents a share, exceeding the average analyst projection, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  