-- 
UBS May Struggle to Regain Top Wealth Manager Slot

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-09-29T13:34:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/ubs-s-trading-loss-may-harm-bid-to-attract-millionaire-clients.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  may struggle to regain its
position as the world’s biggest wealth manager after the $2.3
billion trading loss at its investment bank.  Wealthy clients entrusted the Zurich-based bank with 22.9
billion Swiss francs ($25.1 billion) of new money in the first
half of this year, after customers pulled a net 198.7 billion
francs from the business in nine quarters through June 2010.  Bank of America Corp. and Morgan Stanley leapfrogged UBS
during the credit crisis, after customers were spooked by record
writedowns and a U.S. probe into whether Switzerland’s biggest
bank helped American clients evade taxes. The trading loss
widened the rift between UBS’s two key units and triggered the
exit of Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel , who had asked
wealth managers to forge closer links with investment bankers.  “It’s the third time in as many years that confidence in
UBS has taken a hit,” said Matthew Czepliewicz, an analyst at
Collins Stewart Hawkpoint Plc in London, in an interview. “As
long as there are other convenient options, most notably Credit
Suisse or foreign banks that have been trying to build up in the
market, there’s a risk that money might flow elsewhere.”  Smaller Zurich-based rival Credit Suisse Group AG attracted
more than 125.7 billion francs of assets since UBS received a
Swiss government bailout in October 2008.  “UBS is monitoring the situation, however, we haven’t
observed any significant outflows,” said Zurich-based spokesman
Yves Kaufmann, responding to the question of whether clients
have withdrawn money following the trading loss.  Tax Evasion  UBS wealth management in  Switzerland  provides individuals
with at least 250,000 francs of disposable assets with
investment advice and offers services such as retirement
planning. The business is headed by Bob McCann in the Americas
and Juerg Zeltner in the rest of the world.  When UBS was charged in 2009 with helping U.S. clients
evade taxes, the bank avoided prosecution by paying $780
million, admitting it fostered tax evasion, and giving the U.S.
Internal Revenue Service data on more than 250 accounts. It
later turned over data on another 4,450 accounts.  After attracting the most new money from wealthy customers
since the end of 2007 in the first quarter, Gruebel attributed
the gains to “the return of client trust and confidence.”
First-half pretax profit from  wealth management  was 1.57 billion
francs, 30 percent higher than earnings from the investment
bank, which had the lowest share of revenue among its eight
largest peers.  Reputation Fundamental  “Reputation is fundamentally important to all banks but
especially so at UBS,” said Fiona Swaffield, an analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets  in London. “The bulk of the share price is
thanks to the wealth management unit.”  UBS shares have rebounded to 11.47 francs, after slumping
11 percent to 9.75 francs on the day the bank disclosed the
loss. The stock is down 25 percent this year, compared with a 29
percent decline in the 46-member Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and
Financial Services Index.  Sergio Ermotti , 51, the bank’s European head and a former
derivatives banker, was appointed as interim CEO to replace
Gruebel, 67.  Now may be the time to rebuild UBS around its private
banking business, said Beat Wittmann, head of Zurich-based
Dynapartners and former chief of investment products at Julius
Baer Group AG. Spinning off the investment bank or devoting it
to supporting the wealth-management business could boost the
shares by as much as 50 percent, he said.  Wealth Focus  “It will not be enough for the board to tell stories about
improving risk management,” said Wittmann. “They need to spin
off and list the investment bank separately and nominate a chief
executive officer from a wealth management background.”  UBS oversaw $1.56 trillion for wealthy investors at the end
of last year, compared with $1.95 trillion at  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America and $1.63 trillion at  New York- 
based Morgan Stanley, according to a survey by Scorpio
Partnership, a London-based provider of research and industry
analysis.  The investment bank will “carry less risk” in future and
be more closely aligned with the wealth management business that
will be further expanded, Chairman Kaspar Villiger, 70, said on
Sept. 24 after Gruebel quit.  UBS is “committed” to developing its wealth management
Americas business, according to a memo from Villiger and Ermotti
to employees that they said was in response to persistent
“rumors.”  ‘Remain Unscathed’  “While the event may cause reputational damage in the
short term, the core wealth management franchise is likely to
remain unscathed,”  Teresa Nielsen , an analyst at Vontobel
Holding AG in Zurich with a buy rating on UBS, wrote in a note
to clients.  The profitability of Swiss wealth managers is being eroded
by a global crackdown on  tax evasion . Agreements last month to
end disputes over tax evasion with  Germany  and the U.K. may
trigger outflows as clients question the value of cross-border
accounts as Swiss banking secrecy crumbles.  In the future, private bankers “will spend more time with
their clients with less effect on the bottom line,” Lukas Ruflin, deputy CEO of EFG International AG, a Swiss private bank
with about 80 billion francs in assets under management, said at
a conference in Zurich on Sept. 27.  The loss from unauthorized trading has sapped morale among
UBS wealth and asset managers, according to a bank executive,
who requested anonymity because he isn’t authorized to speak
publicly.  ‘No Magic Recipe’  “I know that over the past several years you have heard
plenty of entreaties to continue doing your utmost and avoid
being distracted. I imagine by now you are tired of them,”
interim CEO Ermotti said in another memo to employees. “I have
no magic recipe to inspire you to redouble your efforts. I can
only appeal to your professionalism, your loyalty and your
determination to succeed.”  While the trading loss is a “severe setback” to the
company’s efforts to regain trust, the investment bank remains
an “essential part” of meeting the expectations of UBS
clients, he said.  “This is a big knock and will put the client advisers on
the defensive again rather than the offensive,” Swaffield said.  About 35 percent of the 3,500 job cuts announced by UBS on
Aug. 23 will come from wealth management while 45 percent of the
reductions are at the investment bank.  ‘Growth Opportunities’  In UBS’s Zurich headquarters, investment bankers can make
pitches to relationship managers in a bid to tap the funds of
millionaire clients. UBS hopes the ability to leverage
investment-banking expertise and repackage ideas for wealthy
clients gives it an edge over smaller Swiss private banks.  “It’s very important that we have the investment-banking
platform to support our clients,” said Allen Lo, the bank’s
head of wealth management in  Hong Kong . “Asia-Pacific offers
enormous long-term growth opportunities.”  Growth in  Asia  and other emerging markets is driving the
rebound in UBS’s wealth management business and will help
counter withdrawals by clients in the U.S. and Europe, analysts
said.  While UBS’s wealth business took five quarters to rebound
after the lawsuit in the U.S., the trading loss may prove less
of a stigma, said Matt Clark, an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette &
Woods Ltd. in  London .  “It may result in weaker flows for a quarter or two but in
a couple of years time I don’t think it will have materially
altered their profile,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly in Paris at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  