-- 
Uganda Shilling Slips for 2nd Day on Euro Debt, Oil Import Buys

-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-09-28T11:48:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/uganda-shilling-slips-for-2nd-day-on-euro-debt-oil-import-buys.html
Uganda ’s shilling slipped for the
second day against the dollar as companies bought the U.S.
currency on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will weaken riskier
assets further and as oil importers paid for supplies.  The currency of East Africa’s third-biggest economy
depreciated 0.2 percent to 2,855 per dollar by 2:18 p.m. in the
capital, Kampala, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Euro-area governments are withholding approval of the next
loan installment under Greece’s first bailout until the group of
officials from the  International Monetary Fund , the  European
Central Bank  and the European Commission rules whether Greece is
meeting debt-reduction terms under the program. The next tranche
of aid is due in October.  “We are seeing some demand for the dollar coming through
in the market because of problems attributed to the  euro zone ,”
Ahmed Kalule, the head of currency trading at Bank of Africa
Uganda Ltd., said by phone from Kampala. “People are turning to
the dollar as the safest currency, while some demand is coming
from the energy sector.”  Uganda’s shilling reached 2,897.50 against the dollar on
Sept. 23, the weakest since June 1993. The currency slipped 19
percent this year to the dollar, making it the second-worst
performer after Kenya’s shilling. A surge in food and fuel
prices pushed inflation to an 18-year high of 21.4 percent in
August from 18.8 percent in July, the Uganda Bureau of
Statistics said on Aug. 31.  The currency appreciated 1.6 percent in the two days
through Sept. 26.  “People are seeing these rates as good enough to buy the
dollar after the shilling gained in the last few days,” Benon
Okwenje, the head of  currency trading  at Stanbic Bank Uganda
Ltd., said by phone from Kampala.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  