-- 
Ukraine May Reduce Plantings of Winter Grains, Minister Says

-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 
2011-09-28T11:28:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/ukraine-may-reduce-plantings-of-winter-grains-minister-says.html
Ukraine’s winter grain plantings
for the 2012 harvest may be lower than last year because of dry
weather this month and forecasts for insufficient rains next
month, Agriculture Minister Mykola Prysyazhnyuk said.  Plantings may decline by 10 percent to 15 percent from the
planned 6.7 million hectares (16.6 million acres), Prysyazhnyuk
told reporters in Kiev today. Plantings last year were 6.5
million hectares.  “Dry weather is worrisome,” Prysyazhnyuk said. “The
national Hydrometeorology Center says that the first 10 days of
October will also be dry. Should this happen, we will change the
structure of planted areas in favor of spring planting.”  Ukraine plants most of its wheat in winter, when yields are
higher than in spring. Rapeseed is only seeded in August and
September and most of barley is usually planted in spring.
Winter wheat accounts of about half of Ukraine’s grain
harvest, estimated by the ministry at 54 million tons for 2012.  Farmers harvested 39 million tons of grains as of
yesterday, the minister said. Grain exports may be as much as 25
million tons in the marketing year that started July 1, with
wheat accounting for 11.5 million tons, according to
Prysyazhnyuk.  Exports Slow  “We are concerned about grain export,” the minister said.
“We should have exported 6 million tons so far since July 1 and
only exported 3 million tons.” Outbound grain shipments in
September were 1.1 million tons, he said.  Grain exports have been slowed by an export tax,
Prysyazhnyuk said, adding that the  Agriculture Ministry  will ask
the  Finance Ministry  to remove it.  “We are losing export pace, we are losing markets, we are
losing budget revenues and we are losing currency earnings,”
the agriculture minister said.  Wheat accounted for 22 million tons of the 39 million tons
harvested so far, and barley for 9 million tons, according to
the minister. The corn harvest is estimated at 18 million to 19
million tons by the department.  The sunflower harvest has been 6.2 million tons, the
minister said. Sunflower average yields have increased to 1.82
tons a hectare from 1.54 tons a hectare last year.  Sugar beets were harvested from 30 percent of planted
areas, or 161,000 hectares, the minister said. The  sugar beet 
crop was 5.7 million tons and yields increased to 35.2 tons a
hectare from 31.1 tons last year, he said.  Plantings of sugar beet may climb 10 percent for next
year’s harvest, Prysyazhnyuk said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net 
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net 
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  