-- 
Hungary’s Loan Plan Sets ’Dangerous Precedent,’ Fitch Says

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-09-28T12:52:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/hungary-loan-plan-sets-dangerous-precedent-fitch-ratings-says.html
Hungary ’s offer for early repayment
of foreign-currency mortgages at below-market rates with banks
swallowing losses sets a “dangerous precedent” and may hurt
lending,  Fitch Ratings  said, echoing comments by Moody’s
Investors Service.  The plan, together with a special bank levy and a
“generally quite aggressive policy stance with respect to the
banking system, could make it less likely that parent banks will
put more capital and funding into the Hungarian banking
system,” Fitch said today in a statement. This may harm lending
and restrict economic growth, it added.  Parliament passed a law last week to allow the repayment of
foreign-currency mortgages at 180 forint per Swiss franc and 250
forint per euro, with banks to absorb the losses. The plan sets
“a worrying precedent” and is “credit negative” for
Hungarian covered bonds, Moody’s said yesterday.  The European Union has said the mortgage program may
violate its rules, while Hungary’s central bank warned that
local lenders will suffer “significant” losses.  The program may cost the banking industry 1.5 percentage
points of its Tier 1 capital ratio if a quarter of eligible
mortgage holders participate, Fitch said.  Hungary, where two-thirds of  mortgage loans  are denominated
in Swiss francs, is struggling to help borrowers after the
Alpine country’s currency rose to a record, boosting defaults
and pushing up monthly payments. The country’s largest lender,
OTP Bank Nyrt., competes mostly with units of international
banks including Raiffeisen Bank International AG,  Erste Group
Bank AG (EBS) ,  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and Bayerische Landesbank AG.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  