-- 
United Technologies Forms Aero, Building Units Amid Goodrich Buy

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-09-28T21:31:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/united-technologies-forms-broad-aerospace-building-system-units.html
United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  is
bundling its aircraft-parts units and climate and security
businesses into two broad groups specializing in the innards
of buildings and planes.  Alain Bellemare, 50, becomes chief operating officer of the
aerospace unit, which includes Hamilton Sundstrand systems,
 Pratt & Whitney  jet engines and $16.5 billion acquisition target
 Goodrich Corp. (GR)  Carrier air conditioning’s Geraud Darnis, 51,
will run UTC Climate, Controls and Security Systems, which will
include UTC Fire & Security.  Chief Executive Officer  Louis Chenevert ’s reorganization
will curb supply costs, combine research efforts and synchronize
sales programs, the company said.  “This organization change really helps me sustain superior
momentum and helps me bring it home in markets filled with new
opportunity,” Chenevert said in a telephone interview. “It
allows me to focus on a different level than day-to-day
operations to a certain extent, and I need guys to go get it all
done.”  The aerospace division will be run by Goodrich CEO Marshall Larsen, 62, once  United Technologies  acquisition of that company
closes in mid-2012. The new segments have been in the works for
about a year.  “Quite a bit of planning” is under way to fold in
Goodrich, Chenevert said.  United Technologies shares have
fallen 4 percent to $71.85 since the deal, the company’s largest
ever, was announced a week ago. Goodrich shares have climbed 11
percent in the same period to $121.09.  In addition to integrating Goodrich, Chenevert, 54, will be
free to concentrate on selling in emerging markets like  India 
that are driving growth in the commercial construction group of
businesses, he said.  Examining Reorganization  United Technologies, based in Hartford,  Connecticut , began
examining the reorganization about a year ago, focusing on it
more intensely in the last six months, Tom Bowler, the senior
vice president for human resources, said in an interview.  The aerospace division positions United Technologies better
for a surge in demand as Airbus SAS and  Boeing Co. (BA)  prepare for
record production. This week, Boeing delivered its first 787
Dreamliner with newly created Hamilton Sundstrand electrical
systems.  Carrier and UTC Fire & Security will report separately
until 2012, when they will be blended, while the parent company
will continue to report individual results for Pratt & Whitney
and Hamilton Sundstrand.  The company decided to keep Otis, the world’s biggest
elevator maker, separate because of the way elevators are sold:
Tall buildings need elevators no matter what, Chenevert said.  Keeping Sikorsky Helicopters  Sikorsky will remain separate because it is an aircraft
maker, not a supplier, like the other two aerospace divisions.
The unit is “absolutely not” for sale and keeping it separate
shouldn’t be interpreted as a sign of such, he said.  “Sikorsky is a prime asset for us,” Chenevert said.  Even as Europe grapples with its own financial crisis,
emerging markets continue to help drive United Technologies
growth, he said.  Chenevert said the company is “tracking” to eventually
resume a pre-2008 pace of increases of as much as 8 percent in
organic sales, or revenue from existing businesses.  “The mood on the Street is worse than what the order book
looks like,” Chenevert said, saying the company is still
“growing double-digit” in emerging markets. “They’re building
so much new stuff that they want the best technology advantage
and minimal energy consumption. The same can be said about
aerospace. I see those markets remaining very strong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  