-- 
US Airways Pilots Ordered by Judge to End Work Slowdown Supported by Union

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-09-28T21:20:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/us-airways-pilots-ordered-by-judge-to-end-work-slowdown-supported-by-union.html
US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  pilots were
ordered by a federal judge to end a work slowdown that he said
was designed to increase flight delays, cancellations and the
carrier’s operating costs.  U.S. District Judge Robert J. Conrad Jr. in  Charlotte ,
North Carolina, granted the airline’s request for the injunction
today, agreeing that the US Airline Pilots Association
encouraged members to call in fatigued, write up more
maintenance issues, slow taxiing times and turn down voluntary
flight assignments because of displeasure with the pace of
contract talks.  “As a result of these tactics, there has been a
significant decline in  US Airways ’ on-time performance that has
harmed the company’s bottom line and its reputation,” Conrad
said in the ruling.  The union, or USAPA, failed in its duty to try to stop the
slowdown under the  Railway Labor Act , which governs airline
labor issues, Conrad said. The judge found insufficient evidence
to hold union President Michael Cleary individually responsible
for the slowdown.  Denying it backed the slowdown, the union said its actions
were designed to highlight a “flawed safety culture” at Tempe,
Arizona-based US Airways.  Charlotte Hub  Conrad’s ruling followed a two-day hearing last month in
Charlotte, where the union is based. The city is also the
airline’s biggest hub.  The union, which represents 5,200 US Airways pilots, has
been in contract negotiations with US Airways since 2005 when it
merged with America West Holdings Corp. Pilots for the two
carriers continue to work under separate labor agreements.  “USAPA is reviewing the ruling, and at this time we have
no comment,” Todd Fieser, a union spokesman, said in an e-mail.  “We are pleased the injunction has been issued,” US
Airways said in a note to employees today. “This means USAPA
must immediately stop all illegal job actions and make every
reasonable effort to prevent any further illegal job activity.”  The airline’s case is US Airways v. US Airline Pilots
Association, 11-00371, U.S. District Court, Western District of
 North Carolina  (Charlotte).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  