-- 
Vienna Insurance Plans Due Diligence on KBC’s Polish Unit

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-09-28T16:17:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/vienna-insurance-plans-due-diligence-on-kbc-s-polish-unit-1-.html
Vienna Insurance Group AG, eastern
 Europe ’s biggest insurer, may begin due diligence next month on
 KBC Groep NV (KBC) ’s Polish business before deciding whether to make
an offer.  The first half of October “is the period where we think
due diligence could start,” Chief Executive Officer Guenter Geyer said in a telephone interview today, citing bankers
managing the sale. “We’ll look closely at the data and review
whether we’re going to buy.”  Acquiring KBC’s Towarzystwo Ubezpieczen i Reasekuracji
Warta SA would make the Vienna-based company  Poland ’s second-
biggest insurer after PZU SA. Geyer declined to say how much he
was prepared to pay for Warta.  Warta may attract more than a dozen bidders, Alexander Dibelius, regional manager at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which
advising KBC, said on Sept. 7. The former communist part of
Europe overtook Vienna Insurance’s home market of  Austria  as the
biggest contributor to earnings in the first half of this year.  KBC is selling Warta and its 80 percent stake in Poland’s
 Kredyt Bank SA (KRB)  to repay 7 billion euros ($10 billion) of state
aid from the Belgian government.  Kredyt gained 6.8 percent to 12.27 zloty in Warsaw after
 Gazeta Wyborcza  reported that  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,  Spain ’s
biggest lender, made a preliminary offer to buy the bank. This
values the bank at 3.3 billion zloty ($1.02 billion).  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  of Austria in February
agreed to buy EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA’s Polish business for 490
million euros ($667 million) and Santander earlier this year
bought Bank Zachodni WBK SA for 2.9 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  