-- 
Vietnam Stocks May Rally 27% in 2012, Thang Long Securities Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-28T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/vietnam-stocks-may-rally-27-in-2012-thang-long-securities-says.html
Vietnam ’s benchmark stock index may
rally as much as 27 percent next year as a rebounding economy
and slowing inflation prompt investors to pour money into
shares, according to  Thang Long Securities Joint-Stock Co.   The Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange’s VN Index may reach as
high as 550 “at some points” next year, Quach Manh Hao, deputy
chief executive officer at Thang Long Securities, the nation’s
third-largest brokerage, said in an interview in Hanoi. The
gauge closed at 433.97 yesterday.  “I have a bullish view on the stock market from now until
the middle of next year,” he said. “Inflation has peaked,
while the economy is expected to rebound and borrowing costs are
coming down.”  The VN Index has risen 0.3 percent this quarter, the only
advance among Asian benchmark indexes tracked by Bloomberg, as
consumer-price gains slowed and the central bank cut its
repurchase rate in July after nine consecutive increases. The
government is aiming for gross domestic product growth of 6.5
percent and inflation of less than 10 percent next year, it said
in separate statements in June.  The stock gauge has tumbled 10 percent this year as
inflation accelerated to the fastest pace among 17 Asian
economies tracked by Bloomberg. Shares on the index traded as
low as 8.9 times estimated earnings in the week ended Aug. 12,
the lowest since March 27, 2009, when the gauge began a seven-
month rally and more than doubled to a peak of 624.10 in October
that year.  Cash Flow   Growth slowed in the first three quarters of 2011 after the
government pushed up borrowing costs earlier this year in a bid
to curb price gains. For the nine months through September, the
economy expanded 5.76 percent, down from 6.54 percent in the
first three quarters of 2010, according to General Statistics
Office figures released on Sept. 24.  “It seems that the situation can’t be worse, and we
actually have seen that cash flow into the stock market has
improved,” Hao said. The Ho Chi Minh Stock Exchange is the
second-smallest of 16 in Asia-Pacific tracked by Bloomberg, and
more than 14 times smaller by market capitalization than
 Southeast Asia ’s largest exchange in  Singapore .  The  State Bank  of Vietnam has increased the repurchase,
refinancing and discount rates to stem credit growth and slow
inflation. The central bank raised the repurchase rate in nine
steps from 7 percent at the start of November last year to 15
percent in May 2011, before cutting it in July to 14 percent.  Economy Stabilizing  Consumer prices climbed 22.42 percent in September from a
year earlier, easing from a 23.02 percent gain in August,
according to figures released by the General Statistics Office.  Inflation in Vietnam “has been staying at a high level”
and “lasting for a long time,” Vu Duc Dam, chairman of the
statistics office, said on Sept. 26. The government will
“firmly” pursue its tight monetary and fiscal policies until
the end of the year, Dam said.  “ Monetary policy  is a bit tighter, but it also shows the
determination of the government in stabilizing the economy,”
Hao said.  Hao recommended investors buy stocks of companies in
sectors such as construction materials, food and beverage or
logistics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  