-- 
Volksbank State Aid Refund Said to Be at Risk on Capital Concern

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-09-28T14:11:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/volksbank-state-aid-refund-said-to-be-at-risk-on-capital-concern.html
Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS) ’s
planned repayment of 300 million euros ($409 million) of state
aid this year may fail as regulators are concerned the lender’s
capital is insufficient, three people familiar with the
situation said.  Volksbanken, one of eight lenders that failed the European
Union’s bank stress test in July, is unlikely to get approval by
the central bank for the capital refund, the people said. That’s
mainly because the bank scrapped its 2011 profit forecast, and
because its asset sales didn’t go as well as planned, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the process is
private.  Austria ’s fourth-biggest lender “is focused on capital
strengthening and  risk reduction  above everything else,” a
spokesman for Volksbanken said today. The central bank and the
financial watchdog FMA declined to comment. The possible failure
to repay was first reported by Austrian daily WirtschaftsBlatt
today.  The cooperative lender, which got 1 billion euros of state
aid in 2009, is selling assets to repair its balance sheet and
replenish capital. Its revamp is being closely monitored by
supervisors after it failed this year’s round of EU stress tests
because regulators found it had insufficient capital, the
central bank said July 15.  Target Miss  Since then, Volksbanken said Aug. 25 that it wouldn’t be
able to meet its 2011 target of posting 100 million euros in
profit after writedowns on Greek  government bonds , and because
the planned sale of a stake in Raiffeisen Zentralbank
Oesterreich AG was unlikely to go ahead this year. It also
agreed to sell its eastern European business at a loss on Sept.
8 and didn’t manage to sell its Romanian unit as part of the
deal.  These developments, along with the volatile environment for
European banks overall, may prompt the central bank to block
the aid repayment, the people said.  Failure to repay the first tranche of state capital this
year means that Volksbanken would trigger two conditions that
allow Austria to nationalize the bank if it wishes. The other is
that it won’t pay a dividend for the state capital for the third
time in as many years. Finance Minister Maria Fekter said Sept.
2 that her desire to nationalize the lender was “very
limited.”  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , Austria’s biggest lender, yesterday
said it wouldn’t meet its goal to refund 1.2 billion euros of
state aid this quarter, although it still aimed to repay it as
soon as it got regulatory approval.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  