-- 
Websites To Mine Health Data to Rate Products

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-09-28T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/websites-mine-clumsy-u-s-health-data-to-rate-medical-products.html
Two companies aim to do for the
health-care industry what Morningstar Inc. does for stocks and
Carfax Inc. for vehicles: provide consumers with ratings for
drugs and medical devices.  Clarimed LLC , a closely held  Santa Clara , California-based
company, takes publicly available information about side effects
and negative outcomes for 125,000 medical devices such as heart
stents and pacemakers and puts it on a website that’s searchable
by type or disease.  AdverseEvents Inc. , which like Clarimed
unveiled its service at this week’s Health 2.0  Conference  in San
Francisco, seeks to provide transparency on negative drug
interactions.  Drug- and device-makers are legally required to report so-
called adverse events to the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration .
The information is put into FDA databases riddled with mistakes
that make it difficult to search, said Brian Overstreet, co-
founder and president of closely held Healdsburg, California-
based AdverseEvents.  “There are over 440 different misspellings of Ambien in
their database,” Overstreet said about Sanofi’s sleep medicine.
“That problem gets multiplied across every field in the
database -- the side effects are misspelled, the conditions are
misspelled, the dosages are misspelled.”  Nora Iluri, founder and CEO of Clarimed, said making this
information widely available will improve quality.  Seeking Independent View  “Before  J.D. Power  came out, cars weren’t that safe and
they broke down all the time,” Iluri said, about J.D. Power &
Associates, the automotive tracking service that compiles
consumer satisfaction surveys. After its debut in 1968, “within
a decade, quality started to improve, because now there was an
independent agency that highlighted issues, so people could
perceive quality and make decisions,” she said.  The FDA’s current reporting  system  for adverse effects “is
a bit clumsy and uses raw, coded data,” Sandy Walsh, a
spokeswoman for the agency, said in an e-mailed statement.
Improvements are in the works, she said, and the information is
available in a different form.  “We do provide clean, easy-to-read lists of adverse events
for drugs if the information is requested under the Freedom of
Information Act, which can take several weeks,” she said.  Clarimed and AdverseEvents offer free information on these
adverse events and look to make a profit by selling in-depth
reports and analysis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 