-- 
West Bank Settlers Spurning UN Vote Vow Growth as Army Trains for Protests

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 
2011-09-28T08:15:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/west-bank-settlers-spurning-un-vote-vow-growth-as-army-trains-for-protests.html
Shaul Goldstein has been building
West Bank settlements as a contractor and politician for 20
years. He plans to continue no matter what Palestinian Authority
President  Mahmoud Abbas  achieves in his bid for statehood.  “I saw his speech at the  United Nations  and it doesn’t
change anything,” said Goldstein, mayor of the cluster of
settlements south of Jerusalem known as Gush Etzion. “We live
here and we’re not going away.”  Abbas, who appealed to the UN last week to create the world
body’s 194th member state, cites Jewish settlement growth as the
biggest reason he’s given up on peace talks with Israel. The
West Bank’s settler population has tripled to more than 300,000
since the 1993 Oslo peace accords, while the number of
Palestinians in the territory has grown to about 2.6 million
from 1.5 million.  The settlers’ determination to keep expanding risks further
isolating  Israel  at a time when the Arab Spring has raised
tensions in the Middle East, said Shimon Shamir, a former
Israeli ambassador to Jordan and  Egypt  and professor emeritus at
Tel Aviv University.  “When people in Arab countries look at the settlements, it
looks to them like a deliberate Israeli attempt to stop a two-
state solution,” Shamir said.  Beefing Up Security  Abbas received a standing ovation and was interrupted at
least 10 times by applause during his Sept. 23 address in  New
York . While the Palestinian leader says his security forces will
ensure a peaceful aftermath of any UN statehood vote, Israel has
been beefing up troops throughout the  West Bank .  Sporadic clashes there on the day Abbas and Israeli Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  both spoke at the UN General
Assembly left one Palestinian dead and may have led to the death
of an Israeli father and son, police said. The armed forces will
be on full alert during the two-day Jewish New Year holiday,
which starts today.  The Israeli army has stockpiled noise machines, water
cannons shooting smelly fluids and other riot-control equipment
inside settlements to repel any potential Palestinian attacks,
according to Minister for Home Front Defense Matan Vilnai.
Members of Netanyahu’s government, including Deputy Foreign
Minister Danny Ayalon, have proposed that Israel annex the most
populous settlements should the UN vote for the plan.  New Permits  Israel has built more than 120 settlements across the West
Bank, which it captured from Jordan in the 1967  Middle East  war.
Between the end of the settlement freeze in October 2010 and
July of this year, 2,598 new housing units were started,
according to analysis by the anti-settlement group Peace Now of
aerial photos and visits. At least 3,700 units were under
construction, the group said on its  website .  In east Jerusalem, also taken in 1967, the Jewish
population has grown by 200,000 and an Israeli Interior Ministry
committee yesterday approved the construction of 1,100 new homes
there. The U.S., the UN and the European Union criticized the
decision, saying the move imperils the latest effort to revive
Mideast peace efforts.  The  Yesha Council , which represents the settlements, says
about 70 percent of the population comprises Orthodox Jews. They
tend to have a strong religious attachment to sites where much
of the biblical narrative about ancient Israel played out,
including Hebron and Shiloh.  Garden Apartments  Gush Etzion was first settled by Jews in 1940 and destroyed
by the Arab forces before the state of Israel was declared in
1948. Since it was rebuilt after the 1967 war, the community has
grown to 70,000 people in 22 settlements that function as
suburbs of  Jerusalem . Efrat, the largest, features white stone-
trimmed garden apartments and a large immigrant population from
the U.S. and the U.K.  Both Jewish and Palestinian shoppers flock to the well-
stocked supermarket outside Efrat operated by Rami Levi Chain
Stores Hashikma Marketing Ltd. Across the street, tourists buy
the West Bank’s own Chardonnay and Merlot vintages from the Gush
Etzion Winery.  Israeli leaders also cite strategic reasons for holding
onto the West Bank, calling the country’s narrow borders before
the 1967 war indefensible. Giving up land in the West Bank, for
example, would make Israel’s  Ben-Gurion International Airport  --
10 kilometers (6.2 miles) from the barrier separating the West
Bank from Israel -- vulnerable to rocket attacks, they say.  Ministers Live There  The influence of settlers on Israeli government decisions
has grown since Netanyahu and his Likud party-led coalition were
elected in 2009: Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman and Public
Diplomacy Minister Yuli Edelstein both live in Gush Etzion.  Abbas, who came back from the UN this week to thousands of
flag-waving Palestinians packed into the courtyard of his
headquarters in Ramallah, says he won’t renew peace talks with
Israel unless Netanyahu freezes settlement construction.  Netanyahu has declined to reimpose the 10-month freeze he
declared in November 2009. He told the UN that settlements “are
not the core of the conflict” and said he would meet Abbas any
time to hear his position and restart peace talks.  Palestinians, settlers and soldiers are in daily contact
with each other and confrontations are frequent. Two Palestinian
uprisings in the West Bank and  Gaza Strip  left more than 6,000
Palestinians and 1,500 Israelis dead between 1987 and 2004.  Summer Training  The Israeli army spent the summer training  soldiers  and
civilian security coordinators at settlements across the West
Bank to get ready for the possibility of Palestinian
demonstrations, Vilnai said at a Sept. 14 briefing in  Tel Aviv .  “The security establishment is prepared with a wide range
of methods,” Vilnai said. “They have been holding exercises
and preparing themselves with the hope that there won’t be any
problem in the end.”  The army’s emphasis is on non-lethal means of riot control,
while teaching settlers to exercise restraint, said Goldstein,
who built homes as a construction contractor before his 1999
election as mayor.  Now he is promoting a 10-year plan to expand  Gush Etzion  to
a population of 90,000. Most settlements are also surrounded by
perimeter-security fences and monitored by closed-circuit video
equipment.  “These parades can start off non-violent and then they
reach the main roads,” Goldstein, 52, said in a Sept. 26 phone
interview. He joined other settler leaders this month to discuss
security arrangements with Israel’s top West Bank military
commander, Major-General Avi Mizrahi.  “Then the Palestinians throw stones and Molotov cocktails
and they shoot at Israeli cars,” he said. “The minute that
happens, the army goes in and we have an escalation.”  Undercut the Message  Violent demonstrations that reach the settlements would
undercut the political message Palestinians wish to project:
that they should be recognized by the UN as an independent state
living side-by-side in peace with Israel, Mohammad Shtayyeh, a
senior Palestine Liberation Organization official who is part of
the group that prepared the UN resolution according to Shtayyeh.  “This is a trap we’re not going to fall into,” said
Shtayyeh at a Sept. 13 press conference in Ramallah. “We’re not
inciting violence. We’re not engaging in violence. Under no
circumstances.”  Still, some settlers are buying attack dogs raised by
former New Yorker Michael Guzofsky, who said his  Belgian
Shepherds  have been sent to 25 settlements.  “I’m getting a lot more orders now because people are
worried about what sort of trouble this UN thing is going to set
off,” said Guzofsky, who runs his “K9 Jewish Legion” business
out of the Kfar Tapuach settlement in the northern West Bank.  Mizrahi  outlined for the mayors an army assessment that
most Palestinians don’t want to see the demonstrations turn
violent, Goldstein said. Settlement security coordinators have
undergone training by the army that focused on restraint.  “We were told not to open fire immediately,” Goldstein
said. “Even if you see people approaching, sometimes there are
other methods to stop them, like rubber bullets, water and stun-
grenades.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Alon Shvut, West Bank, through the Tel Aviv
newsroom   jferziger@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  