-- 
White Writer, Black Actress Clash; Wilson’s Wry ‘Lemon’: Review

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d   a n d   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-09-28T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/white-writer-black-actress-clash-in-submission-wry-lemon-sky-review.html
Jonathan Groff and Rutina Wesley go
at it hammer and tongs in Jeff Talbott’s high-volume race baiter
“The Submission.”  Groff plays Danny, a marginal young playwright who scores a
coveted production at a renowned resident theater.  The complication is that, under the pseudonym Shaleeha
G’ntamobi the very Wonder Bread gay Danny has written a play
about a single, booze-addled black mother and her hustler son
trying to find their way out of “the projects.”  Enter Wesley’s Emilie, an underemployed black actress Danny
hires to assume the “role” of G’ntamobi as the play is cast,
rehearsals take place and the show opens to acclaim. (Never mind
where he gets the money to underwrite such an assignment.)  Their relationship quickly grows contentious. Fans of these
attractive stage actors cum TV stars (he on  “Glee,”  she on  “True
Blood” ) may recoil at the sound of them shouting invective,
including the “F” word and the “N” word, as the action winds up
to its audience-hushing finale at  Manhattan ’s Lucille Lortel
Theatre.  Nervously observing from the sidelines are Danny’s
boyfriend Pete (Eddie Kaye Thomas) and straight best friend
Trevor (Will Rogers).  Grand Ripostes  Much of the play, smoothly directed by Walter Bobbie,
unfolds in coffee shops recognizable as stand-ins for Starbucks
(cleverly designed by David Zinn and glintingly lit by David
Weiner) in different locales. Clever but generic might be
applied to Talbott’s play, which is smart and zingy but also
contrived.  Staged clashes over the pain of discrimination experienced
by minority A versus minority B are passe, no matter how
polished the rhetoric.  More interesting is the play’s subtext of cultural
imperialism. Through some mysterious process, Danny has written
a very good play (even Emilie admits this) in the voice of a
black woman. Is that thievery or precisely what artists do?
(Gerard)  At 121 Christopher St. Information: +1-212-352-3101;
 http://www.mcctheater.org .
Rating: **  ‘Lemon Sky’  In the  Keen Company ’s fine revival of Lanford Wilson’s
“Lemon Sky,” Keith Nobbs plays Alan, a sensitive 17-year-old
child of divorced parents.  He moves west to a San Diego suburb to live with his
father’s second family, which includes a warm but spineless
step-mom (Kellie Overbey), two younger half-brothers and a
foster child, a pill-popping, promiscuous blonde (Alyssa May
Gold).  Wilson’s 1970 memory play is set mostly in 1959 and
concerns Alan’s collision course with his unbending dad (Kevin
Kilner), who works nights in an aircraft factory. Alan
alternates between being part of the action and commenting on
it, a hallmark of Wilson’s style (the playwright died in March).  Nobbs, quietly engaging, appeared in last season’s
“Lombardi” and in profile resembles  Tom Cruise . As the
monstrous dad, Kilner is at once repellant and sympathetic.  The denouement was slightly lacking in necessary TNT.
Directed by Jonathan Silverstein and costumed by Jennifer Paar,
“Lemon Sky” nicely evokes late 1950s California and hemmed-in
social norms -- without inspiring nostalgia for a lost time.
(Boroff)  Through Oct. 22 at Theatre Row, 410 W. 42nd St.
Information: +1-212-239-6200;  http://keencompany.org .
Rating **  (Jeremy Gerard and Philip Boroff are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are their own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 