-- 
Twitter Sales Estimate Cut by EMarketer on Slower Ad Rollout

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-09-28T17:57:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/twitter-sales-estimate-cut-by-emarketer-amid-delays-in-advertising-effort.html
Twitter Inc. ’s advertising revenue
will reach $139.5 million this year, according to EMarketer
Inc., which pared its estimate from $150 million because the
microblogging website has been slow to roll out some services.  Twitter hasn’t yet added expected advertising products such
as a “self-serve” platform that lets customers set up their
own ads, the research firm said in a report. Still, even the
reduced estimate means ad revenue may more than triple in 2011,
and sales will rise more than expected in later years,  EMarketer 
said. Global ad revenue is predicted to reach almost $400
million by 2013.  “They’ve been taking it slow,” said Debra Aho Williamson,
an analyst at EMarketer in  Seattle , adding she had expected the
self-serve program by this summer. “User experience is very
important to Twitter. That’s why they’ve been very careful.”  Twitter, which earlier this month said it surpassed 100
million active users, is aiming to drive revenue by wooing
advertisers and leveraging its membership base, which includes
celebrities, politicians and journalists. The company in July
said it would begin highlighting advertisers’ promotional
messages, called “promoted tweets,” in some user feeds.  The San Francisco-based company will benefit from more
global sales offices in the future, according to EMarketer. The
company may bring in $259.9 million in ad revenue in 2012, up 86
percent from 2011. International ad sales will make up 10
percent of the total in 2012, up from 4 percent this year.  Twitter should roll out the self-serve ad platform by next
year, according to Williamson. Rivals  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook
Inc. already use self-serve systems, which automate the ad-
buying process.  “What this will do is just open up the floodgates, and
enable Twitter to offer advertising to small and mid-sized
companies that maybe don’t have the capacity to work with the
direct sales team,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Womack  in  San Francisco  at 
 Bwomack1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 