-- 
TMX Discount to Maple Bid Shows Regulatory Risk, Kloet Says

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-09-28T22:10:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/tmx-discount-to-maple-group-bid-reflects-regulatory-risk-chief-kloet-says.html
TMX Group Inc. (X)  Chief Executive
Officer  Thomas Kloet  said the gap between his company’s stock
price and a takeover offer by a group of Canadian banks and
pension funds reflects investor concerns that regulators may
reject the C$3.73 billion ($3.65 billion) deal.  “Whenever you have a transaction like this, there’s a
certain amount of regulatory uncertainty,” Kloet, 53, said
today in an interview at Bloomberg’s New York headquarters.
“That’s a factor and the market’s trying to make a judgment
based on that.”  TMX is weighing an unsolicited bid from Maple Group
Acquisition Corp., a 13-member consortium that includes Toronto-
Dominion Bank, Canada Pension Plan Investment Board and  Manulife
Financial Corp. (MFC)  TMX shares closed today at C$39.65, or $10.35
below Maple’s C$50-a-share cash and stock offer, which is set to
expire Sept. 30 and may be extended this week.  Maple made an offer for TMX on May 13, trumping the
agreement between the Toronto exchange owner and  London Stock
Exchange Group Plc. (LSE)  LSE and TMX scrapped the combination on June
29 after failing to get enough shareholder support, leaving
Maple as the sole suitor. TMX’s board on July 21 authorized
management and advisers to hold discussions with Maple.  Kloet denied speculation that the Maple Group was only
formed to thwart the London Stock Exchange bid.  “There is no indication from me that they’re not serious
at all,” Kloet said. “Whether they’re serious and whether the
regulators and Competition Bureau are going to say yes are two
different things. They could be very serious but still not get
approval.”  Alpha Group  Maple’s plans include buying Alpha Group, an alternative
trading platform owned by the country’s biggest banks that
competes with TMX, and Canadian securities clearing house CDS
Inc. Combined, the TMX exchanges and Alpha had about 85 percent
market share of the number of stocks traded in  Canada  at the end
of August, according to  statistics  from the Investment Industry
Regulatory Organization of Canada.  The Maple plan requires approvals from four provincial
regulators, including those in Quebec and Ontario, as well as
the Competition Bureau.  “I don’t see the deal going through,” said Renee Colyer,
a former director of research at TMX, and CEO of Toronto-based
capital markets consultant Forefactor. “It’s not something that
is easily explained or easily dealt with from a regulatory
standpoint or an antitrust point of view.”  Regulatory Concessions  Melanie Aitken, who became Canada’s competition regulator
in 2009, has overseen an increase of cases in which companies
must make concessions on their transactions, such as selling
assets, to receive approval. Lawyers and analysts have said
Maple and TMX may have to accept conditions if the transaction
is approved.  If the deal gets blocked, Maple can say “well, thanks, we
tried,” Colyer said. “In that case, it ends up looking like
the only purpose of the Maple bid was to block the LSE deal.”  Kloet called the London and Maple deals “totally
different” and said he was excited about LSE’s proposal because
it brought new products, markets and distribution that would be
difficult for TMX to create on its own. Maple’s deal builds on
TMX’s existing strategy though it includes CDS, a platform Kloet
has sought.  “Both are interesting, but I like the idea of new
products” tied to the LSE bid, Kloet said. “That was pretty
exciting for me.”  No Recommendation  TMX hasn’t made a recommendation on the Maple bid, and the
filing for the offer still hasn’t been presented to securities
regulators, Kloet said.  “I’m not interested in taking something to our
shareholders something that our board doesn’t think can get
approved,” Kloet said.  Shares of TMX have fallen 12 percent since they closed at a
three-year high of C$45.30 in June, amid the takeover battle
between LSE and Maple. The stock sank to C$39.20 on Sept. 22,
the weakest level since Maple’s bid was announced in May.  “The deal is less likely given the time line of the OSC,
hearings and the Competition Bureau,” said Alison Crosthwait,
director of global trading research at Instinet. “We haven’t
heard anything from Maple lately and the stock price is
slumping.”  Maple Statement  Maple plans to release a statement this week ahead of its
Sept. 30 deadline for the bid, Maple spokesman  Peter Block  said
Sept. 26. The company still anticipates regulatory approvals
won’t be done until at least “the late fall”, Block said.  Maple last month extended the deadline for its tender offer
to buy as much as 80 percent of TMX shares. Maple said in an
Aug. 3 statement it intended to further extend its deadline if
the regulatory approval process wasn’t completed.  “There’s a great deal of confidence that it’s working its
way through the regulatory process and that the Maple Group is
quite satisfied,” Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce Vice
Chairman Jim Prentice told reporters today in Halifax, Nova
Scotia.  CIBC, Canada’s fifth-largest bank, is one of the Maple
Group members.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  