-- 
Yale’s Endowment Returned 22% in Fiscal Year

-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 
2011-09-28T19:11:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/yale-university-s-endowment-returned-22-in-year-ended-june.html
Yale University , whose endowment
strategy has been a model for U.S. schools, said its investments
returned 22 percent in the past fiscal year, leading a two-year
comeback by the richest U.S. universities.  The endowment’s value rose to $19.4 billion as of June 30,
from $16.7 billion a year earlier, helped by foreign stocks and
private-equity gains, according to an e-mail today from
spokesman  Tom Conroy . That amount includes investment gains of
$3.6 billion and distributions of $1 billion to the New Haven,
 Connecticut , university.  Yale, the second-richest school after  Harvard University  of
Cambridge, Massachusetts, said foreign stocks beat benchmarks
and its private-equity and real-asset investments rebounded. The
school trailed its Ivy League rivals in the previous fiscal year
after a second straight year of losses on real estate, timber
and oil and gas holdings.  Yale’s 22 percent gain is the best of the Ivy League
schools that have reported results so far. The group consists of
eight selective private schools in the northeastern U.S.
Harvard, the world’s richest school, said Sept. 22 its
investments advanced 21 percent.  The  University of Pennsylvania  in Philadelphia said Sept.
15 its fund gained 19 percent, helped by rising stock markets.
 Cornell University  in Ithaca,  New York , said today that its fund
climbed 20 percent.  Target Allocations  Dartmouth College in Hanover, New Hampshire, said today
that investments rose 18 percent for the year ended June 30,
boosted by stocks and venture capital and gains across asset
classes. Investment returns helped increase the endowment to
$3.41 billion, after more than $40 million in new gifts and
transfers, partly offset by distributions, Dartmouth said.  David Swensen, Yale’s chief investment officer, pioneered
an investing style that helped endowments beat market indexes by
relying on such hard-to-sell assets as real estate and private
equity. Over the past 20 years, Yale’s endowment generated
returns of more than 14 percent, compared with the 13 percent
increase at Harvard.  Foreign stocks gained 41 percent in the fiscal year,
beating its benchmark by 13 percent, according to Conroy’s e-
mail. Real estate and natural-resource investments rose 17
percent and private equity increased 30 percent.  U.S. stocks gained 25 percent, underperforming the
benchmark by 7.8 percent, while absolute return funds matched
expectations with a 13 percent return, according to Conroy.  Stanford, Duke  The school this year aims to allocate 20 percent of assets
to real estate, down from 28 percent  last year , 17 percent in
absolute return instead of 19 percent and 34 percent in private
equity instead of 33 percent, Conroy said. Allocations for
foreign stocks, U.S. equities, bonds and cash remain constant at
9 percent, 7 percent and 4 percent, respectively.  Stanford University , in Palo Alto,  California , said Sept.
26 that its investments gained 22 percent in the year ended June
30. Duke University in Durham, North Carolina, said Sept. 27 its
investments gained 25 percent, compared with the 18 percent
increase at the  Massachusetts  Institute of Technology in
Cambridge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gillian Wee in New York at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 