-- 
Yancoal May Use Market Turmoil to Spend $1 Billion on New Mines

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-09-28T14:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/yancoal-may-use-market-turmoil-to-spend-1-billion-on-new-mines.html
Yancoal Australia Ltd. , a unit of
 China ’s fourth-largest coal producer Yanzhou Coal Mining Co., is
considering spending more than $1 billion buying mines in
Australia as the global market turmoil makes assets cheaper.  “We are acquisitive,” Murray Bailey, Yancoal’s Sydney-
based managing director, said in a phone interview yesterday.
“We would consider large takeovers” of more than $1 billion,
he said.  Yancoal is adding coal assets in the world’s biggest
exporter of the fuel after prices reached record highs earlier
this year due to flooding in Australia as well as ongoing demand
growth in India and China. The value of mining companies
globally has dropped 28 percent from an April high, according to
the Bloomberg World Mining index, as market turmoil threatens to
slow global growth and reduce raw-material demand.  “There are some opportunities there with companies that
are sitting on resources that may not have the capacity to fund
their development,” said Bailey. “There are also some
producers that might want to be approached.”  The current market conditions are creating potential
opportunities, he said. The company would consider both
developed and undeveloped assets in  Australia , including either
thermal or steelmaking coal, he said.  There have been $32.4 billion of coal deals announced this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The current
quarter has had the highest value of deals since the last
quarter of 2010.  Biggest Deals  The biggest coal takeover this year was Alpha Natural
Resources Inc.’s $7.1 billion purchase of Massey Energy Co. in
June. That was followed by ArcelorMittal, the world’s largest
steelmaker, and Peabody Energy Corp.’s offer to buy Australia’s
Macarthur Coal Ltd. for A$4.8 billion last month.  Yanzhou this week agreed to buy Wesfarmers Ltd.’s Premier
coal mine in  Western Australia  for A$297 million ($294 million).
It bought Australia’s Syntech Resources Pty Ltd., a coal
developer, for A$202.5 million in August. It bought Australia’s
Felix Resources Ltd. for A$3.1 billion in 2009 to meet demand
for the fuel in the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  Yancoal is considering an initial share sale to list on the
Australian stock exchange, Bailey said. It’s in the process of
appointing an adviser, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Gosman at 
 kgosman@bloomberg.net  