-- 
Yemen’s Saleh, Opposition May Be Close to Accord, Diplomat Says

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 
2011-09-28T10:04:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/yemen-s-saleh-opposition-may-be-close-to-accord-diplomat-says.html
Yemen’s government and opposition
are making progress in talks on a  power transfer  to end
escalating violence, and could resolve outstanding disagreements
within a week, a senior Western diplomat said.  The two sides have advanced beyond a proposal put forward
by Gulf Arab nations in April for President Ali Abdullah Saleh
to hand over power, adding detail to areas that had been left
vague, and are now holding direct talks rather than negotiations
mediated by third parties, the diplomat said in an interview
yesterday, on condition of anonymity.  Mohammed al-Mutawakkil, a member of the main opposition
coalition, the Joint Meeting Parties, said in an interview from
Sana’a today he is “optimistic” that a solution is near. The
two sides have a practical blueprint for how to proceed, the
Western diplomat said.  Violence in Yemen has escalated in the past two weeks,
leaving more than 100 people dead, as fighters from tribes that
support the opposition clashed with government troops. Saleh
returned to the country on Sept. 24 following more than three
months of recuperation in  Saudi Arabia  after he was injured in
an attack on his compound. The president has called for revival
of the Gulf Cooperation Council peace proposals, as protests
demanding Saleh’s immediate ouster continue daily in the
capital, Sana’a, and other cities.  Plane Shot Down  Saleh has three times come to the brink of signing the Gulf
Cooperation Accord. He pulled back from signing it on May 22,
when the opposition refused to attend a signing ceremony at his
palace. Saleh has since given Vice President Abd Rabbo Mansur Hadi the power to sign the agreement on his behalf.  Yemen’s  Defense Ministry  said on its website today that a
military aircraft crashed after it was attacked while on a
routine mission in Arhab in the north of Sana’a. The ministry
said Ali Mohsen al-Ahmar, a former military commander who
defected to join the protesters, and other opposition leaders
were behind the attack.  The opposition Al-Sahwa website said the plane was shot
down by tribal fighters who have been battling Saleh’s troops
for several months.  To contact the reporter on this story: Donna Abu-Nasr at
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 