-- 
Euro Gains on Speculation the Region’s Leaders Will Contain Debt Crisis

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-09-29T18:48:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/yen-dollar-rise-as-europe-debt-concern-boosts-safety-demand-aussie-falls.html
The euro strengthened versus the
dollar as investor bets increased that leaders in the region
will agree on measures to aid member nations that are struggling
to pay their debts.  The 17-nation currency gained against most of the major
currencies after  Germany ’s lower house of parliament approved
the expansion of a bailout fund to help contain the sovereign-
debt crisis. The yen touched below 77 per dollar for the first
time in two weeks as stocks rose, spurring demand for higher-
yielding assets.  New Zealand ’s dollar weakened after  Fitch
Ratings  cuts its long-term foreign-currency issuer default
rating.  “People are delighted to see that Germany approved the
expansion of the European Financial Stability Facility,” said
 Kathy Lien , director of currency research with online trading
firm GFT Forex in New York. “It means that progress can be made
and another hurdle can be passed. We see a broad-based
improvement in sentiment and risk appetite.”  The euro gained 0.2 percent to $1.3569 at 2:43 p.m. in  New
York  after rising to $1.3690 yesterday, the strongest since
Sept. 21. The currency appreciated 0.2 percent to 103.97 yen.
The yen was little changed at 76.63 per dollar.  The yen and dollar have gained the most against eight
developed-nation counterparts this month, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The yen has added 7.2
percent and the dollar rose 7.2 percent.  The Japanese currency has outperformed its major peers this
quarter, gaining 11.9 percent in the past three months while
 Australia ’s dollar fell 4 percent and the Swiss franc dropped
2.5 percent.  German Vote  Lawmakers in the Bundestag voted 523 in favor of
legislation aimed at expanding the powers of the 440 billion-
euro ($600 billion) EFSF, while 85 voted no and three abstained.
The legislation is set to be debated and put to a non-binding
vote in the upper house, or Bundesrat, tomorrow. All 17 euro
members must approve the changes to the EFSF before they go into
effect.  The vote in Berlin on changes to the EFSF allows the fund
to buy the bonds of distressed member states and offer emergency
loans to governments, raising Germany’s guarantees to 211
billion euros from 123 billion euros.  “We’re taking piecemeal incremental steps in trying to
move forward,” said  Marc Chandler , global head of currency
strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York. “Markets
are cautiously optimistic, but the euro problems are far from
resolved. People are inching their way back into risk.”  Greek Views  About 93 percent of investors expect  Greece  to eventually
default, according to the quarterly Global Poll of 1,031
Bloomberg subscribers. Forty percent foresee the currency bloc
losing at least one member in the next year.  New Zealand had its long-term foreign-currency issuer
default rating cut to AA from AA+ by Fitch, which cited a high
level of debt and unfavorable economic growth. The long-term
local-currency rating was cut to AA+ from AAA. The outlook on
both ratings is stable.  The kiwi, as the currency is nicknamed, fell 1.2 percent to
76.71 per  U.S. dollar .  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.3 percent after
gaining as much as 2.2 percent. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies
CRB index of raw materials added 0.8 percent.  Brazil ’s real rose 0.3 percent to 1.8462 per dollar and the
British pound gained 0.2 percent to $1.5609, rising from a one-
year low of $1.5328 reached last week.  Gains in the euro were tempered after  Italy ’s borrowing
costs rose at a government debt sale today. Italy’s five-year
credit-default swaps were at 472 basis points today, showing
traders see a 34 percent chance for the nation’s nonpayment,
compared with 4.6 percent for the U.S.  Economic Growth  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a 1.3 percent annual rate in
the second quarter, faster than the 1 percent estimated last
month, revised figures from the Commerce Department showed
today. The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News was 1.2 percent, following a 0.4 percent increase in the
first three months of the year.  Claims for U.S. unemployment benefits dropped by 37,000 in
the week ended Sept. 24 to 391,000, the fewest since April,
Labor Department figures showed today. The Applications fell
more than forecast last week as an atypical calendar alignment
made it more difficult for the government to adjust the data for
seasonal changes. Economists forecast 420,000 claims, according
to a median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  The won snapped a two-day gain versus the dollar after a
report showed the current-account surplus narrowed in August,
dimming the growth outlook for  Korea ’s export-led economy.  The surplus was $401.3 million compared with a revised
$3.77 billion in July, the  Bank of Korea  said today.  “The narrowing of the current-account surplus was expected
in the market and points to a bleak outlook for the Korean
economy,” said Jeon Seung Ji, a currency analyst at Samsung
Futures Inc. in  Seoul .  The won fell 0.3 percent to 1,173.70 per dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  