-- 
Stocks Tumble, Euro Reverses Rise Amid Europe Crisis; Treasuries Trim Loss

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-09-28T20:31:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/yen-gains-commodities-drop-on-growth-outlook.html
U.S. stocks tumbled, halting a
three-day rally, and the euro reversed an early gain versus the
dollar as investors watched for signs of progress in Europe’s
efforts to stem the government debt crisis. Treasuries trimmed
losses as the 10-year note’s yield capped the biggest increase
over four days since January 2009.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 2.1 percent to
1,151.06 at the 4 p.m. close in  New York  after climbing 0.8
percent earlier and rallying 4.1 percent over the previous three
sessions. The euro weakened 0.2 percent to $1.3554, erasing a
0.8 percent advance. Ten-year yields rose two basis points to
1.997 percent, trimming a nine-point increase, and have climbed
27 points in four days. The S&P GSCI Index of commodities
slumped 2.7 percent as copper sank 5.6 percent. Oil lost 3.8
percent after U.S. supplies increased last week.  Global equities and commodities were poised for their worst
quarterly losses since 2008 amid concern  Greece  will default on
its debt and contagion will drag the global economy into a
recession. The European Commission is resisting a push to impose
bigger writedowns on bank holdings of Greek sovereign debt than
those previously agreed on, a European official said. The
European Union today proposed a financial-transaction tax to
take effect in 2014 and Spain and  Italy  extended temporary bans
on short selling of financial shares.  ‘Pins and Needles’  “The market is on pins and needles over the whole European
debt problem,” Thomas Garcia, head of equity trading at  Santa
Fe , New Mexico-based Thornburg Investment Management Inc., which
oversees about $75 billion, said in an e-mail. “Every new rumor
or little piece of news moves the market in one direction or the
other a percent or two. It’s frustrating.”  All 10 main industry groups in the S&P 500 fell, with
companies most-tied to economic growth including commodity
producers and financial firms dropping the most. Freeport-
McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. tumbled 7.2 percent and Chevron Corp.
lost 1.9 percent as commodities tumbled. JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and Bank of America Corp. fell at least 3.5 percent, pacing
declines among all 81 financial shares in the  S&P 500 .
Amazon.com Inc. rose 2.5 percent after introducing its Kindle
Fire tablet computer, taking aim at Apple Inc.’s iPad.  U.S. stocks gained earlier after a bigger-than-forecast
increase in demand for capital goods eased concern the economy
was slipping back into a recession. Bookings for goods like
computers and communications gear, excluding military hardware
and aircraft, climbed 1.1 percent in August and total demand for
durable goods fell less than forecast.  $1 Trillion Rout  A four-day rout last week erased $1 trillion from U.S.
equities amid concern Greek insolvency is inevitable and Europe
can’t contain the damage. The decline left the S&P 500 trading
at 12.4 times earnings in the past 12 months, 4.4 percent below
its average valuation at the lowest point during the last nine
bear markets, Bloomberg data shows.  The index rebounded since Sept. 22 amid optimism that
European leaders were making progress in halting contagion from
the debt crisis. Even as the S&P 500 rallied this week, futures
on the VIX show investors expect the Chicago Board Options
Exchange Volatility Index to remain at least 50 percent above
its historical average of 20.5 through May, data compiled by
Bloomberg show, amid demand for protection against more losses
in stocks. Before the current rebound, the S&P 500 had fallen 14
percent from a three-year high at the end of April through Sept.
22.  The MSCI All-Country World Index has lost 17 percent this
quarter, poised for the biggest drop since the aftermath of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy in 2008. The global
index is trading at 11.7 times reported earnings, near the
lowest level since March 2009.  ‘Very Attractive Level’  “We’ve reached a very attractive level of valuations, even
in financials for those who have longer investment horizons,”
said Pierre Mouton, a  fund manager  at Notz Stucki & Cie. in
Geneva, who helps oversee $7.5 billion. “There are fantastic
opportunities. A lot has been massacred.”  Treasuries trimmed some losses after the government’s $35
billion auction of five-year notes drew a record low yield of
1.015 percent. The 30-year bond yield climbed one basis point to
3.08 percent. The dollar increased against 13 of 16 major peers,
rising more than 1.3 percent versus the  Mexican peso ,  New
Zealand dollar  and Brazilian real.  Silver plunged 5 percent to lead losses in 23 of 24
commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI Index. The commodities gauge
has slumped almost 10 percent since the end of June, headed for
its worst quarterly loss since a 44 percent plunge in the fourth
quarter of 2008.  Among European stocks, Man Group Plc sank 25 percent, the
most since November 2008, after the world’s biggest hedge fund
said its assets under management will decline by $6 billion amid
“suppressed” demand for investment products.  European Banks  Banks were the biggest drag on the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index,
which fell 1.1 percent. Austria’s Raiffeisen Bank International
and Erste Group AG and  Germany ’s Deutsche Bank AG slid at least
3.8 percent to lead declines.  The London interbank offered rate, or Libor, that London-
based banks say they charge each other for three-month dollar
loans rose for a 14th straight day, climbing to a 13-month high
of 0.36856 percent, according to data from the British Bankers’
Association.  Greek ’Haircuts’  German banks are resisting political pressure for them to
accept larger writedowns, or “haircuts,” on their holdings of
Greek government debt, a person briefed on the talks said.
German lawmakers have called on lenders in recent days to accept
a larger writedown than the 21 percent proposed by the  Institute
of International Finance , an industry lobby group, said the
person, who declined to be identified because the talks are
private. Banks are concerned the IIF agreement may unravel if
they are forced to accept further losses, the person said.  The EU transaction-tax proposal would apply a fee of 0.1
percent on trading of stocks and bonds thoroughout the 27-nation
bloc, with a 0.01 percent rate for derivatives contracts, the
European Commission, said today in Brussels.  In European bond markets, yields on 10-year Greek debt fell
for a second day, dropping 28 basis points to 23.04 percent.
Rates on 10-year French, German, Italian and Spanish debt
increased at least three basis points. The euro slumped to its
lowest against the dollar shortly before 4 p.m. New York time,
while the shared currency gained against 12 of its 16 major
peers led by gains of more than 1 percent versus the real,
Mexican peso and  New Zealand  and Australian dollars.  Finland’s parliament approved the expansion of Europe’s
temporary rescue fund, bringing to nine the number of euro
members to have ratified the mechanism. German lawmakers will
vote on the EFSF tomorrow.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index of stocks slipped 0.8
percent after surging 4.9 percent yesterday in its biggest rally
in more than two years. Benchmark gauges in  Argentina ,  Brazil ,
Mexico and  South Africa  fell more than 1 percent to lead
declines among developing markets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  