-- 
Hypo Real Estate Minority Squeeze-Out Cleared by Appeals Court

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 
2011-09-28T07:51:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/hypo-real-estate-minority-squeeze-out-cleared-by-appeals-court.html
Hypo Real Estate  Holding AG’s
former minority investors lost an appeals court ruling over the
lender’s rescue by the government, which forced them to sell
their stock.  The Munich Higher Regional Court rejected the plaintiffs’
arguments that the so-called squeeze-out was unconstitutional
and violated European rules, the court said in an e-mailed
statement today.  The step was legal, given “the meaning of the financial
sector for a functioning economy and thus for the stability of
the state and society,” the court said. “Without government
support many lenders would have become bankrupt which would have
caused a breakdown of the financial sector and a recession.”  The German government and financial institutions had to
rescue Hypo Real Estate in 2009 after the lender’s Dublin-based
Depfa Bank Plc unit couldn’t raise financing when the bankruptcy
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. froze credit markets.  The plaintiffs were seeking to invalidate a decision at
Munich-based Hypo Real Estate’s Oct. 5, 2009, shareholder
meeting, when the government bank-rescue fund, known as Soffin,
used its majority of votes to force minority shareholders
including U.S. investment firm J.C. Flowers & Co. to sell their
shares in a squeeze out.  A capital increase of 3 billion euros ($4 billion),
excluding subscription rights for shareholders other than
Soffin, was approved at an earlier meeting held on June 2, 2009.
That brought Soffin’s stake in Hypo Real Estate above the 90
percent threshold required to force remaining investors to sell
their stock.  Only about a dozen of the original 38 plaintiffs appealed
the lower court ruling. Flowers didn’t join the appeal.  Hypo Real estate is the target of several suits over its
near collapse and investor losses. The Munich Higher Regional
Court is also hearing a test case under a mass-litigation
procedure to bundle claims of former holders who seek damages.
Lawyer Andreas Tilp who is representing investors in that case
said their combined claims are worth about 900 million euros.  Today’s case is OLG Muenchen, 7 U 711/11.  -- Editor: Christopher Scinta, Anthony Aarons  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons in London at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net  