-- 
Yuan Drop Spurs Record Slide in Dim Sum Bonds: China Credit

-- B y   F i o n   L i   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-09-29T07:15:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-28/yuan-drop-spurs-record-slide-in-dim-sum-bonds-china-credit.html
Yuan-denominated bonds in  Hong Kong 
are headed for a record monthly loss, erasing gains for the year,
as a worsening outlook for the global economy fuels concern
China will slow the pace of its currency’s appreciation.  So-called dim sum bonds have fallen 4 percent since the end
of August, pushing average yields 1.05 percentage point higher
to 5.85 percent, according to the BOCHK Offshore RMB Bond Index.
Globally, emerging-market corporate debt lost 3.8 percent and
U.S. Treasuries gained 1.1 percent, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes show. Twelve-month yuan forwards traded within 0.1
percent 0.1 percent of the onshore spot rate today, compared
with a 1.6 percent premium at the start of the month.  A faltering global recovery is curbing the outlook for
exports and growth in  China , the world’s second-largest economy,
at a time when concern is mounting that the nation’s property
developers and local governments will struggle to pay debts. In
addition to a worsening credit outlook, investors in dim sum
bonds are getting hurt as a rallying dollar prompts Chinese
policy makers to check yuan appreciation.  “The market is slowly shifting from a focus on the
currency play to a better appreciation of the inherent credit
risks in some of the issuers,” said Neeraj Seth, the Singapore-
based head of Asian credit at BlackRock Inc., which manages $1.2
trillion of fixed-income assets globally. “I expect this shift
to drive improved risk-reward dynamics for investors.”  Yield Gap  The average yield on China’s sovereign yuan-denominated
debt in Hong Kong is 0.73 percent for maturities of one to three
years, based on the BOCHK Offshore RMB Bond Index. Three-year
bonds in  Shanghai  yield 3.78 percent, Chinabond data show. The
nations’ inflation rate was 6.2 percent in August, down from a
three-year high of 6.5 percent the previous month.  The yuan has weakened 0.1 percent in Shanghai since the
middle of August, a period in which the greenback gained against
15 of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The yuan has
dropped 0.3 percent to 6.3970 per dollar in September as of 3:09
p.m. local time, poised for its first monthly loss since January,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  Currency appreciation was put on hold for almost two years
from July 2008, halting a 21 percent advance in the previous
three years, as the global financial crisis hurt demand for
China’s exports. The outlook for the world economy is “not
optimistic,” Zhang Ping, head of the National Development and
Reform Commission, said yesterday.  The yuan has strengthened 6.7 percent since its de facto
peg was ended in June 2010 and the People’s Bank of China set
its daily  reference rate  at a record high of 6.3623 per dollar
yesterday. Stronger fixings are bolstering the yuan in Hong Kong,
where the currency gained 0.6 percent in the past four days to
6.4700 after a 2.1 percent slide last week that was the biggest
loss since offshore trading commenced in the city in July 2010.  Offshore Yuan  “There were quite a number of stop-loss orders last week
in the offshore yuan market on macro concerns,” said Nathan Chow, an economist in Hong Kong at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. “The
dim sum bonds are largely foreign-exchange plays. The sell-off
in offshore yuan has dragged down the bonds’ performance.”  The Deutsche Bank Offshore Renminbi Bond Index has declined
1.1 percent so far this month, poised for the biggest loss since
it was introduced at the start of 2011. The HSBC Offshore
Renminbi Bond Index slid 0.8 percent, the worst performance
since June. Both indexes, along with the BOCHK gauge, are headed
the a fourth monthly decline.  “There’s room for dim sum bond yields to rise if
appreciation expectations continue to dwindle,” said  Steve Wang ,
the head of fixed-income research in Hong Kong at BOCI
Securities, a unit of Bank of China Ltd. “Sentiment remains
fragile and volatile.”  Forecasts Cut  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its 2011 and 2012
growth forecasts last week for the world economy to 4 percent,
from 4.3 percent and 4.5 percent, respectively. The Washington-
based lender’s 2012 projection for China was lowered to 9
percent from 9.5 percent.  The cost of insuring Chinese sovereign bonds against
default more than doubled this quarter. Five-year credit-default
swaps on the notes jumped 19 basis points to 173 basis points
yesterday, the highest level since March 2009, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market. The
contracts traded at 84 basis points at the end of June.  The yield on China’s 2.48 percent dim sum bonds due in
December 2020 fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point,
this month to 2.35 percent, based on Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc prices. In the onshore market, which global investors
are restricted from investing in, the yield on China’s 10-year
notes declined 18 basis points to 3.92 percent, according to
Chinabond data.  Inflation Fight  A more flexible  exchange rate  would help China slow growth
to a more sustainable pace and bring inflation down, Bank of
Canada Senior Deputy Governor Tiff Macklem said on Sept. 27 in
 Vancouver . The government’s top priority will continue to be
stabilizing prices,  China Central Television  reported yesterday,
citing Vice Premier  Li Keqiang .  The yuan will be “fully convertible” in five years should
market reforms go smoothly,  Li Daokui , an adviser to the
People’s Bank of China, said Sept. 25 in  Washington . The
currency will strengthen 5.6 percent to 6.06 per dollar by the
end of 2012, according to the median estimate of 19 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Yuan appreciation expectations remain intact,” said
Becky Liu, a Hong Kong-based strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc,
the top underwriter of the securities this year. “Dim sum bonds
yield may trend up but the move will not be massive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  