-- Macau Labor Shortage Seen as Hurdle for Casino Expansion
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-05-22T10:02:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/macau-labor-shortage-seen-as-hurdle-for-casino-expansion.html
  Macau ’s $34 billion gambling industry
has an obstacle. With  28 million visitors  and 21 percent
 economic growth  last year, Macau is confronting a severe labor
shortage.  The Chinese city, one of two of the country’s special
administrative regions along with  Hong Kong , is the world’s
largest  gambling hub  by revenue and is close to full employment.  As a result, casino operators such as  Las Vegas Sands
Corp. (LVS) ,  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  and Hong Kong-traded  Galaxy
Entertainment Group Ltd. (27)  are having trouble finding workers as
they seek to draw more of the Chinese tourists who drove
gambling revenue up 42 percent last year. Rules requiring firms
to hire from Macau’s population of about half a million are
driving up wages and have casino operators competing for card
dealers, construction workers and executives.  “It’s a challenge everybody faces,” said Edward Tracy,
chief executive officer at  Sands China Ltd. (1928)  “You have a base
population of 500,000 and an unemployment rate of 2.1 percent.
That 2.1 is almost zero: those people are probably not looking
for a job.”  Joblessness in the former Portuguese colony is at the
lowest since Bloomberg began tracking the data in 2002. It
contrasts with the 15 percent monthly unemployment rate in
 Portugal ,  8.1 percent  in the U.S. and  Spain ’s  24 percent .  The rules not only make it harder to hire staff, they also
contribute to a rise in wages, though casino profits aren’t
suffering.  Surging Profits  At Sands  China , for example, the Asian unit of billionaire
 Sheldon Adelson ’s Las Vegas company, profit rose  sixfold  in the
three years through 2011. Tracy says a big worry is the 4,000
positions he’d like to fill.  In December, average earnings, excluding bonuses and
allowances, of full-time employees rose by 6.5 percent in the
gaming sector to 16,720 patacas ($2,090), according to
 government data .  The gambling industry’s need for more workers, however, has
hurt small businesses such as restaurants by forcing them to
raise wages to compete with the casinos, said Fung Kwan, head of
the economics department at the University of Macau.  “ Labor shortage  has been an ongoing problem for Macau,”
said Kwan. “The recent casino developments have exacerbated the
problem and we’ve seen the casinos nabbing labor from other
sectors. Labor cost for the whole of Macau is rising.” Gambling
revenue represented about 40 percent of Macau’s gross domestic
product last year, he said.  Baccarat Dealers  At the baccarat table in the Venetian Macau, a dealer who
said she goes by the nickname of “Ah Fong” said her monthly
salary of 20,000 patacas is more than double the amount she used
to make as a waitress.  “Only Macau residents are permitted to work as dealers, so
there’s a huge demand for us,” she said.  The competition for labor is set to increase.  Wynn Macau
Ltd. (1128) , gaming magnate Steve Wynn’s Hong Kong-listed unit, was
given the go-ahead to build a second casino resort in Macau this
month.  Galaxy, the casino operator that more than  tripled earnings 
last year, plans to invest $2.1 billion to double the size of
its resort in three years. Adelson opened the first phase of his
Sands Cotai Central casino in April and that resort will add
4,000 hotel rooms and 200 gaming tables over the next year.  ‘Pressure on Wages’  “The shortage of labor will be exacerbated when the new
resorts come online, particularly with respect to positions that
can only be filled by Macau residents,” said Grant Govertsen, a
Macau-based analyst at Union Gaming Group. “This will put
further upward pressure on wages.”  Wynn Macau fell 4.1 percent to close at HK$18.54 in Hong
Kong trading, the lowest level since Jan. 16, while Galaxy
shares dropped 5 percent, the most since Nov. 11. Sands China
lost 3.8 percent. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  rose 0.6
percent.  Macau, which is 60 kilometers (37 miles) southwest of Hong
Kong and half the size of  New York ’s  Manhattan , is the only
place in China where gambling in casinos is legally allowed.  The city has been benefiting from a jump in economic growth
and  job creation  since opening up its gaming industry in 2001.
It has a population of a little more than half a million and a
work force of 346,000.  Under government rules, some jobs, such as those of casino
dealers, can only be held by local residents. Companies need to
get approval from the governor before they can hire any non-
resident worker, according to the norms set out by  Macau’s Labor
Affairs Bureau .  Political Process  For approval, companies must ensure that salaries of local
workers won’t be affected upon the employment of foreign workers
and the proportion between resident and non-resident workers
must be “acceptable,” according to the guidelines.  Sands China 
has more than 22,000 employees and 6,000 of them are from
outside Macau, according to Melina Leong, the company’s vice
president for public relations. Sands China raised  employee 
wages by about 6 percent last year.  One hope is the Macau government will loosen restrictions
on foreign hiring to help the industry sustain growth. Macau’s
local labor force is not sufficient to cope with the recent
projects and the city needs more outside workers, Kwan said.  “There’s a political process that has to happen,” said
Sands China’s Tracy. “My belief is, as long as we develop the
next one or two projects, we’ll begin to see some relaxation.”
Galaxy Deputy Chairman Francis Lui also said in a press briefing
today that he expects the Macau government may consider raising
the foreign labor quota.  ‘Solution to Accommodate’  “The current  unemployment rate  of 2 percent in Macau is
very healthy,” said Lui. “As there will be a lot of large
infrastructure projects coming online, the government may soon
come up with a solution to accommodate the need for labor.”  Macau’s labor department press section couldn’t be reached
by phone or e-mail.  Other gambling operators are also awaiting approvals for
further expansion.   MGM China Holdings Ltd. (2282)  and  SJM Holdings
Ltd. (880)  are awaiting approval of land leases for construction on an
increasingly popular part of the city called the Cotai strip,
while  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL) , which already operates the
City of Dreams casino on Cotai, waits for permission to begin
the $1.9 billion Studio City resort.  For local residents such as 46-year-old “Ah Fong,” who
switched careers from waitressing about four years ago, the
restrictions are a boon for now.  “It offers good money,” she said of work in the casino.
“Even my son, who is now 14, wants to become a dealer when he
finishes school.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  