-- Thai Baht Advances as Economy Unexpectedly Expands; Bonds Fall
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-05-21T08:42:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/thai-baht-advances-as-economy-unexpectedly-expands-bonds-fall.html
The baht rose to a one-week high as
official data showed Thailand’s economy unexpectedly grew in the
first quarter, recovering after last year’s floods.  Government
bonds  fell.  The currency gained for a third day as the National
Economic and Social Development Board reported gross domestic
product increased 0.3 percent from a year earlier, after
contracting a revised 8.9 percent in the preceding three months.
The median of 18 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was for a
0.5 percent drop. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index
snapped a six-day decline after Premier Wen Jiabao said over the
weekend that  China  will continue to implement a “proactive
fiscal policy and a prudent monetary policy” to spur growth.  “Data confirms Thailand’s economy is recovering quite
solidly and that is positive for the baht,” said Tohru Nishihama, an economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc.
in Tokyo. “Risk sentiment is improving on China’s remarks and
that supports Asia’s emerging currencies.”  The baht added 0.1 percent to 31.31 per dollar as of 3:12
p.m. in Bangkok after reaching 31.18 earlier, the strongest
level since May 14, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
One-month implied volatility, a measure of foreign-exchange
swings used to price options, was unchanged at 4.52 percent.  “Asian currencies bounce to some degree and this GDP print
should help matters for the currency,” said  Sacha Tihanyi , a
senior strategist in  Hong Kong  at Scotiabank, a unit of  Bank of
Nova Scotia. (BNS)   The yield on the 3.25 percent bonds due June 2017 climbed
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.53 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 