-- AIG Embraces ‘Liquidity Risk,’ Chartis CEO Hancock Says
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-05-21T16:56:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/aig-embraces-liquidity-risk-chartis-ceo-hancock-says.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the bailed-out insurer, is comfortable taking “ liquidity risk ”
in its investment portfolio as it seeks to improve returns amid
low interest rates, the head of its largest unit said.  “We’re willing to take more  liquidity risk , but less
market risk,”  Peter Hancock , the head of AIG’s property-
casualty unit Chartis, said today at an investor conference in
New York hosted by Deutsche Bank AG. “So I don’t particularly
like equities, but I do quite like some of the illiquid,
distressed mortgage assets that are available.”  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 67, has added to
AIG’s holdings of mortgage investments as the U.S. Treasury
Department winds down its  stake  in the insurer, which was
rescued in 2008 after bets on the housing market soured amid a
deepening credit crisis. The New York-based company’s holdings
of non-government-guaranteed residential and commercial-mortgage
backed securities climbed by $11.1 billion since 2010 to $28.4
billion at the end of March, according to regulatory filings.  AIG can hold investments to maturity, which limits its risk
in investing in assets that are less liquid, Hancock said. The
insurer is also carrying forward losses from prior years that
will reduce its tax bills, making municipal bonds less
attractive. AIG’s muni holdings declined to $37.7 billion as of
March 31 from $46.6 billion at the end of 2010.  Near record low  interest rates  have pressured returns at
insurers that rely on investment income from fixed-income
securities for profit. The  yield  on 10-year Treasuries was 1.73
percent at 12:33 p.m. in New York, near the record intra-day low
of 1.67 percent in September.  Maiden Lane III  AIG purchased $600 million in CMBS that had been held by a
Federal Reserve Bank of New York-controlled fund called Maiden
Lane III, Benmosche said May 4. Maiden Lane III was created as
part of the company’s bailout to hold assets backed by AIG.  The insurer has an equity stake in the portfolio and shares
in the gains if the assets are sold at a profit. The  New York 
Fed resumed a sale today of $1.7 billion in Maiden Lane III
holdings after announcing a delay May 17 because information on
some of the debt  hadn’t been made available  to bidders.  “It was a technicality that put the thing on a one-week
hold,” said Hancock. “We’re now completely back on track for
Maiden Lane III monetization.”  The portfolio is one of the sources of funds AIG may use
for  capital management , Hancock said. The insurer is also
seeking to divest its plane-leasing unit and sell its remaining
stake in Hong Kong-based insurer AIA Group Ltd.  AIG has sold non-U.S. life insurers, a consumer lender and
other businesses to pay back its rescue, which swelled to $182.3
billion as the U.S. extended more credit and lowered the
interest charged. The Treasury has cut its  stake  by a third to
61 percent through three share sales. In the most recent two,
AIG bought back a combined total of about $5 billion in stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  