-- Thailand Economy Unexpectedly Expands on Post-Flood Recovery
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   M i c h a e l   M u n o z
-- 2012-05-21T04:53:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/thailand-s-economy-unexpectedly-expands-on-post-flood-recovery.html
Thailand ’s economy unexpectedly
expanded in the first quarter as factories resumed production
and domestic consumption revived after last year’s floods. The
baht rose.  Gross domestic product increased 0.3 percent in the three
months through March from a year earlier, after contracting a
revised 8.9 percent in the previous quarter, the National
Economic and Social Development Board said in Bangkok today. The
median of 18 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.5
percent decline.  Bank of Thailand Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said this
month the monetary authority will refrain from further rate cuts
because the pace of recovery is exceeding its expectations, even
as  Europe ’s debt woes and higher  oil prices  pose risks to growth.
Manufacturers are boosting output after the country’s worst
floods in almost 70 years shut plants and disrupted production,
with Honda Motor Co. saying March 31 its factory in Ayutthaya
province will run at full capacity to meet rising demand.  “The post-flood rebound is progressing nicely, with a
stronger-than-expected rebound likely to keep Bank of Thailand
focused on future inflation risk,” said  Sacha Tihanyi , a senior
currency strategist in  Hong Kong  at Scotiabank, a unit of Bank
of  Nova Scotia . “We are going to see recovery ramp up. However,
it’s not going to be at such a massive rate of growth.”  The baht rose 0.5 percent against the dollar as of 11:50
a.m. local time, the strongest level since May 14, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The SET Index fell 1 percent.  Exit Stimulus  The central bank left  borrowing costs  unchanged for a
second meeting on May 2 and later raised its growth forecast for
2012 to 6 percent. The  International Monetary Fund  said this
month that Thailand should be ready to raise interest rates and
exit fiscal stimulus when the economic recovery strengthens.  Asian nations face risks stemming from  Greece ’s inability
to form a new government after an inconclusive election that
could deepen Europe’s debt crisis, adding to challenges from a
China growth slowdown and an uneven U.S. recovery.  Weak European demand is particularly troubling for
countries including Singapore and Thailand, where exports make
up the equivalent of half or more of gross domestic product.  Capacity utilization and exports will pick up in the second
quarter as more companies recover after the floods, Arkhom Termpittayapaisith, secretary-general of the National Economic &
Social Development Board said at a media briefing in Bangkok.  “Auto and electronics sector will return to full capacity
and that will boost growth in the second quarter,” he said.
“Growth may be 4 percent to 5 percent and will pick up speed in
the third and fourth quarter,” he said, adding that the agency
is maintaining its growth forecast for this year at 5.5 percent
to 6.5 percent.  ’Still Mild’  The recovery is “still mild,” he said, adding that the
central bank must ensure monetary policy “remains supportive” to
the economy, by either cutting or holding  interest rates .  Malaysia will report May 23 its first-quarter GDP growth
slowed to 4.6 percent from a year earlier, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. That compares with a
5.2 percent expansion in the previous three months.  Thai Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said last week
the country could achieve 15 percent exports growth this year.
Car production rose 11 percent to a record 190,935 units in
March from a year earlier, with sales jumping 19.3 percent, the
Federation of Thai Industries said last month.  Inflation slowed in April to the lowest in more than two
years on state subsidies and easing food prices, the Commerce
Ministry said May 1. While industrial output and  exports  fell in
March,  consumer confidence  and business sentiment bounced back.  Under Control  “Manufacturing output, tourism and private-sector spending
look to have risen strongly in the first quarter, reversing
their slumps late last year,” Sukhy Ubhi, an economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in  London , said before the report. “With
inflation under control for now, we think the BoT is likely to
stay on hold at least until the third quarter.”  Inflation risks remain because of higher wages and oil and
a faster-than-expected economic recovery, the central bank said
this month. Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra has said she is
worried about an increase in the cost of living.  Factories of Hana Microelectronics Pcl, Thailand’s largest
semiconductor packager, are operating at between 50 percent and
55 percent of their production level from before last year’s
floods, Chief Executive Officer Richard Han said in a Bloomberg
Television interview today.  “We didn’t have support in terms of relief and tax,” he
said. “A lot of SMEs are also struggling because of the 300-baht
minimum wage increase,” he said. Pay in Bangkok and six other
provinces rose to 300 baht ($9.6) a day in April. In the rest of
the country, it will initially climb an average of 40 percent.  Thailand’s economy, the biggest in  Southeast Asia  after
 Indonesia , grew 11 percent last quarter from three months
earlier, compared with a revised 10.8 percent contraction in the
previous period. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
was for a 10 percent gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  