-- Taiwan Dollar Gains on Odds China Policy to Revive Export Demand
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-05-21T08:55:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/taiwan-dollar-advances-on-export-outlook-bonds-fall-before-sale.html
Taiwan ’s dollar strengthened
following the biggest weekly drop since September on optimism
 China  will ease monetary policy, reviving demand for the
island’s goods.  Government bonds  fell after an auction.  China should continue to implement a “proactive fiscal
policy and a prudent monetary policy” to maintain growth in the
world’s second-largest economy, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said during a
tour of Wuhan in Hubei province over the weekend. A report
issued two minutes before the market closed showed Taiwan’s
exports unexpectedly contracted in April.  “Risk-taking sentiment has recovered today,” said Artie Yao, a fixed-income trader at First Securities Inc. in Taipei.
“Bonds should continue to rally as the global economy still
worries investors.”  Taiwan’s dollar strengthened 0.2 percent to NT$29.578
against its U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc. It
touched NT$29.67 on May 18, the weakest level since Feb. 2.
The currency lost 0.7 percent last week after global funds sold
$1.1 billion more local stocks than they bought on concern
 Greece  will exit the euro.  The island’s export orders dropped 3.52 percent in April
from a year earlier, after a 1.58 percent contraction the
previous month, official data showed today. Economists in a
Bloomberg survey had predicted an increase of 0.5 percent,
helping drive the currency higher in early trade.  Bond Auction  The Taiwan dollar’s one-month implied volatility, a measure
of exchange-rate swings traders use to price options, fell 36
basis points to 5.7 percent. It was 4 percent at the end of last
month.  The Ministry of Finance sold NT$30 billion ($1 billion) of
10-year bonds today at a yield of 1.271 percent, more than the
1.25 percent forecast by six fixed-income traders in a Bloomberg
survey. The yield on the government’s 1 percent notes due
January 2017 rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, in
the secondary market to 0.961 percent, according to Gretai
Securities Market.  The  overnight interbank lending rate  was little changed at
0.51 percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the
Taiwan Interbank Money Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  