-- Taiwan’s Export Orders Decline for a Fourth Month Since November
-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 2012-05-21T08:10:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/taiwan-s-export-orders-decline-for-a-fourth-month-since-november.html
Taiwan ’s export orders fell for the
fourth time in five months in April as Europe’s debt turmoil and
 China ’s growth slowdown hurt demand for its products.  Orders, an indication of shipments in the next one to three
months, slipped 3.52 percent from a year earlier, after a 1.58
percent decline reported earlier for March, a Ministry of
Economic Affairs report in Taipei showed today. The median of 10
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.5 percent gain.  Asian nations are grappling with China’s growth slowdown
and an uneven U.S. recovery, as well as risks stemming from
 Greece ’s inability to form a new government, which could reverse
progress made in resolving  Europe ’s debt turmoil. Exports make
up about two-thirds of Taiwan’s economy, which probably expanded
at the slowest pace in more than two years in the first quarter,
according to another Bloomberg  survey , limiting the scope for
interest-rate increases.  “European demand may deteriorate further due to the
ongoing sovereign-debt crisis,” Ma Tieying, an economist at DBS
Bank in  Singapore , said before the report. While orders from the
U.S. should remain solid, those from China are “expected to
stay at depressed levels,” she said in a note.  The value of export orders was $36.09 billion last month,
today’s report showed.  Orders from China fell 7.8 percent in April from a year
earlier, while demand from Europe slipped 0.78 percent.
Purchases from the U.S. rose 0.79 percent.  Orders for electronics slipped 2.85 percent from a year
earlier, and demand for information technology and
communications products fell 4.63 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  