-- Alibaba Buys Back 20% Stake From Yahoo for $7.1 Billion
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-05-21T20:07:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/alibaba-buys-back-20-stake-in-itself-from-yahoo-for-7-billion.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.,  China ’s
largest e-commerce provider, agreed to repurchase about a 20
percent stake in itself from U.S. Web portal  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  for
about $7.1 billion ahead of a potential initial public offering.  Yahoo will receive at least $6.3 billion in cash and as
much as $800 million in newly issued Alibaba preferred stock,
the companies said in a statement today. At the time of an IPO,
Alibaba will be required to either buy back a quarter of Yahoo’s
current stake or let Yahoo sell the shares. The deal values
Alibaba at about $35 billion.  Alibaba Chief Executive Officer Jack Ma may ready an IPO
following the success of last week’s offering by  Facebook Inc. (FB) 
and projected 42 percent growth this year in China’s online
shopping industry. The former English teacher owns about 7.4
percent of Alibaba Group, according to a Hong Kong stock
exchange filing last month, making his stake worth $2.6 billion.  “The transaction will establish a balanced ownership
structure that enables Alibaba to take our business to the next
level as a public company in the future,” Ma said in the
statement.  Yahoo acquired about a 40 percent stake in Hangzhou, China-
based Alibaba in 2005 in exchange for $1 billion and ownership
of Yahoo’s Chinese operations. At the time, Yahoo had a market
capitalization of $49.2 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Its market value of $18.8 billion on May 18 is about
half the value placed on Alibaba in the deal.  Yahoo Turnaround  Alibaba’s revenue rose to $2.3 billion in the year ended
Sept. 30 from $1.3 billion a year earlier, according to Yahoo’s
annual report in February. The Chinese company posted a profit
of $268 million, compared with a loss of $10.7 million a year
earlier, according to the document.  “As e-commerce in China continues to grow, Alibaba is a
very attractive asset,” said  Duncan Clark , chairman at BDA
China in Beijing, which advises technology companies. “Alibaba
is in a better position now to do an IPO. The competitive
pressures are increasing, and the need to reward staff and make
acquisitions means it’s helpful for them to list.”  Alibaba has been trying to buy back the stake for more than
a year and stepped up efforts in September because of improving
prospects for growth and expansion beyond China. While the deal
reduces Yahoo’s presence in China, the world’s largest Internet
market, it may aid turnaround efforts as the portal competes
with  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook for users and advertising dollars.  Royalty Payment  “The $35 billion price tag placed on Alibaba is on the low
end,” said Jiong Shao, head of China strategy at Macquarie
Securities in  Hong Kong .  “This is the most valuable asset that
Yahoo has.”  That valuation compares with the HK$398.8 billion ($51
billion) market capitalization of Tencent Holdings Ltd., China’s
biggest  Internet company , and $40.3 billion for Baidu Inc., the
biggest Chinese search-engine company.  Yahoo intends to return “substantially all” of the cash
proceeds, after taxes, to shareholders, the company said. While
the form of the returned capital hasn’t been finalized, Yahoo
increased its share buyback authorization by $5 billion with the
agreement, the company said.  In addition, Alibaba will make an upfront royalty payment
of $550 million and continuing royalty payments for as many as
four years.  Investor Financing  The companies also agreed to amend their technology and
intellectual property licensing agreement, granting Alibaba a
transitional license to operate Yahoo China under the Yahoo
brand for as many as four years. Also, restrictions on Yahoo’s
ability to make other investments in China will be terminated.  “Today’s agreement provides clarity for our shareholders
on a substantial component of Yahoo’s value and reaffirms the
significance of our relationship with Alibaba,” Yahoo interim
CEO  Ross Levinsohn  said in the statement.  Alibaba plans to finance the transaction from its cash
holdings, debt and equity-linked financing, and the deal is
expected to close within six months, the companies said. Alibaba
is seeking to raise about $2.3 billion from current investors,
including  Singapore ’s Temasek Holdings Pte, to help finance the
deal, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  UBS AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Allen & Co. advised
Yahoo on the transaction. Credit Suisse Group AG advised
Alibaba.  Failed Negotiations  Levinsohn became involved this month after predecessor
 Scott Thompson  resigned following an inquiry into his academic
record. Thompson said in April that Yahoo was in active
discussions with Alibaba about monetizing a portion of its
stake.  “The sale of half of Yahoo’s Alibaba stake would represent
the partial achievement of a goal that has eluded Yahoo for
years,”  Clayton Moran , an analyst at Benchmark Co., said in an
e-mail. “It appeases shareholders, may give employee morale a
much-needed boost, and starts CEO Ross Levinsohn’s term with a
win.”  Yahoo, based in Sunnyvale,  California , rose 1 percent to
percent to $15.58 at the close in  New York . The  shares  had
fallen 4.4 percent this year before today.  The two companies struggled to make headway on negotiations
under Thompson’s predecessor,  Carol Bartz , who failed to reach
an agreement to let Alibaba Group buy back shares in 2010.  ‘Inappropriate’ Ownership  Fissures became public by January 2010 when Alibaba Group
described Yahoo’s support for Google, which tangled with Chinese
authorities over censorship rules, as “reckless.”  The rift widened in May 2011 after the Web portal said the
Chinese company spun off its Alipay online payment business
without informing shareholders. Yahoo said it wasn’t consulted
about the transfer of Alipay to a company mostly owned by Ma.  It’s “inappropriate” for Internet companies in China to
have high foreign ownership given the increasing regulations on
overseas investments in the industry, Alibaba Group Chief
Financial Officer Joseph Tsai said in May 2011.  In September, DST Global and Temasek Holdings Pte were
among investors that agreed to buy shares of Alibaba in a
transaction valuing the Chinese company at $32 billion, people
familiar with the deal said at the time.  Silver Lake  and Ma’s Yunfeng Capital were also part of the
group that bought as much as $1.6 billion in stock from Alibaba
employees, said the people.  Softbank Stake  Tokyo-based  Softbank Corp. (9984)  owns about 30 percent of Alibaba
Group, operator of the Taobao online marketplace for consumers,
and the Tmall Internet shopping site.  Taobao accounted for about 90 percent of China’s C2C, or
consumer-to-consumer, e-commerce market in the third quarter of
2011, according to a Jan. 12 JPMorgan Chase & Co. report.
China’s e-commerce market may expand 42 percent to 1.1 trillion
 yuan  ($174 billion) this year, according to JPMorgan.  Yahoo considered a deal with Alibaba and Softbank that
would cut its stake in Alibaba to about 15 percent from about 40
percent, a person familiar with the matter said in December.  In 2007, the company listed  Alibaba.com Ltd. (1688)  in a $1.7
billion offering in Hong Kong, then the biggest IPO for an
Internet company since Google’s in 2004.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  