-- AMR Debtholders to Push American, US Airways on Plans
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-05-21T20:26:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/amr-debtholders-to-push-american-us-airways-on-plans.html
AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  debt holders are organizing
outside its unsecured creditors committee to determine whether
the bankrupt company or potential suitor  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) 
can offer the best return, people familiar with the matter said.  Two  bondholder  groups hired financial and legal advisers,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
talks are private. The first goal is to assess AMR’s plan for a
stand-alone  American Airlines , possibly by month’s end, then
meet with  US Airways  on its takeover bid, the people said.  Forming ad hoc groups gives more leverage to investors who
aren’t on the creditors panel set up by the  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court . Those blocs would be able to deliver support to either US
Airways or  Fort Worth , Texas-based AMR. In 2007, an ad hoc group
of  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  bondholders pressed that carrier to
review a hostile US Airways bid that later failed.  One ad hoc group in the AMR case includes corporate-debt
holders such as hedge fund Appaloosa Management LP, and has
hired law firm White & Case LLP and financial adviser Houlihan
Lokey, the people said. The other includes OppenheimerFunds
Inc., the largest holder of AMR’s municipal debt, and has
retained law firm Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel LLP and
financial adviser  Seabury Group LLC , the people said.  Appaloosa and OppenheimerFunds declined to comment, as did
US Airways and Houlihan Lokey. Kramer Levin, White & Case and
Seabury didn’t immediately respond to calls seeking comment.  Studying Scenarios  AMR declined to comment beyond referring to a May 11
statement in which Chief Restructuring Officer Beverly Goulet
said the airline agreed to work with the creditors committee to
develop “potential consolidation scenarios” without committing
to pursue any transaction. AMR filed for bankruptcy on Nov. 29.  AMR’s $460 million of 6.25 percent convertible notes due
October 2014 rose 3.3 percent to 50.5 cents on the dollar at
2:48 p.m. in  New York , according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
US Airways shares climbed 6.5 percent, the most in a month, to
$10.71 at the close.  While AMR holds the sole right to propose a reorganization
plan through Sept. 28, the official creditors committee can ask
Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane to end that privilege early. Tempe,
Arizona-based US Airways, which has won support for a merger
from American’s largest unions, hasn’t made a takeover offer.  Stand-Alone Emphasis  The May 11 accord with AMR’s nine-member creditor panel in
which the company agreed to study strategic options was a
departure from Chief Executive Officer  Tom Horton ’s desire to
consider a tie-up only after American exits Chapter 11 as an
independent airline.  White & Case  and Houlihan Lokey, the advisers to the ad hoc
corporate-debt owners, have held informal talks with AMR and
expect to have more serious meetings and begin due diligence
this week, one person said. The AMR meetings will occur before
the group sits down with US Airways, the person said.  That debt-holder group, which also includes  hedge funds 
such as York Capital Management LLC and King Street Capital
Management LP, is still trying to line up more members, said one
of the people. York Capital and King Street Capital didn’t
return telephone messages left for comment last week.  US Airways’ pitch to bondholders has been the promise of a
greater return than AMR could provide with its plan for a stand-
alone American. US Airways has said the benefits would flow from
its labor accords with American’s three biggest unions,
flexibility with plane leases, and a projected $1.2 billion in
annual savings and new revenue in a merger.  A combination of American, the third-biggest U.S. carrier,
and No. 5 US Airways would surpass  United Continental Holdings
Inc. (UAL)  as the world’s largest airline based on passenger traffic.  For White & Case and Houlihan Lokey, the case reprises
their advisory roles this year for an investor group that
included Appaloosa, which is run by David Allan Tepper. They
represented bondholders in the bankruptcy filing of Residential
Capital LLC, in which debt investors were paid off at par.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  