-- Man Group to Buy Hedge Fund-of-Funds Manager FRM Holdings
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-05-21T16:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/man-group-to-buy-hedge-fund-of-funds-manager-frm-holdings-4-.html
Man Group Plc (EMG) , the world’s largest
publicly traded hedge fund, agreed to buy FRM Holdings Ltd.,
adding $8 billion of assets invested in other hedge fund
managers as its own stock price sinks.  Man Group will pay as much as $82.8 million in cash over
three years, depending on the level of assets FRM retains
following the takeover, the London-based firm said in a
statement today. No money will be paid up front as part of the
acquisition, which Man plans to complete in the third quarter.  Chief Executive Officer  Peter Clarke  is trying to reduce
the firm’s dependence on AHL, the computer-driven driven fund
that accounts for a third of the firm’s $59 billion of assets.
The stock has tumbled 68 percent in the past year as AHL failed
to produce gains and investors pulled money. Man will add FRM to
its own fund of hedge funds unit and the combined division will
oversee about $19 billion, making it the largest independent
fund of hedge funds outside the U.S., according to Man Group.  “The acquisition has strategic merit,” Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. analysts led by  Chris Turner  wrote in a note to
clients today. “Execution risk appears low and this deal would
increase assets in Man’s multi-manager products by 73 percent,
adding size in a part of the industry where scale is
increasingly a competitive advantage.”  Shares Rise  Man Group closed up 4.7 percent at 78.8 pence in London
trading, for a market value of about 1.43 billion pounds ($2.3
billion).  “Man represents a safe home for the business because we
know most of the clients they’ve got,” Clarke said on a
conference call with reporters today. “We’ve got the
infrastructure and commitment to support this business.”  The deal will save both companies $45 million of costs each
year, Man Group said. Some jobs may be cut, Luke Ellis, chief
executive of Man Group’s multi-manager business, told reporters
on the conference call.  “There will be certain places where there are overlaps in
people,” said Ellis, who joined Man Group from FRM in August
2010. He declined to give an estimate.  Fund of funds charge an extra layer of fees --typically 1
percent of assets under management and 10 percent of any
investment gains -- to pick  hedge funds  for pension funds,
sovereign wealth funds and insurers.  Assets Shrink  Assets flooded out of the industry after firms  lost  21
percent on average in 2008 and clients became spooked by fund of
funds investments in U.S. fraudster  Bernard Madoff . Industry
assets tumbled to $643 billion in the first quarter from a peak
in 2007 of $798 billion, according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund
Research Inc.  FRM’s assets shrank from $15 billion in 2008, Ellis said.
The firm’s investment funds would have to rise about 10 percent
on average to hit so-called high-water marks, the point at which
they can charge clients the most lucrative fees for positive
 investment performance , according to Credit Suisse AG. London-
based FRM’s biggest clients are institutional investors in  Asia .  FRM’s “assets came down quite quickly like everyone in the
fund of funds business in late 2008, early 2009,” said Ellis.
“Since then outflows have been very much stemmed. There is a
significant client concentration here, which is the strength of
the opportunity here because those clients know Man well.”  Man and FRM should both benefit from the acquisition
because a bigger firm is more likely to win fee discounts from
hedge funds, Ellis said. A larger fund-of-funds business will
also benefit from its scale through cost savings and the ability
to offer a diverse line of products to investors, he said. The
combined company will use the FRM name, Ellis said.  Man Group bought GLG Partners Inc. in October 2010 for $1.6
billion to add individual hedge fund managers after analysts and
investors said the company was too dependent on AHL.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in 東京 at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  