-- Manhattan Tenants Pay Top Office Rents for Midtown South
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-05-21T18:09:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/manhattan-tenants-pay-top-office-rents-for-midtown-south.html
Most landlords offering prestige
 Manhattan  office space hate to be pinned down on their asking
rents. Not Ed Minskoff.  “Between $88 and $115 a foot,” he said without hesitation
of the prices he’s seeking at 51 Astor Place, the Fumihiko Maki-
designed office project he’s building in the East Village. Those
rates approach the highest rents for top-quality space in
midtown Manhattan, the most expensive U.S. office market, as a
booming technology market fuels demand for trendier areas.  “We’re having a huge amount of interest” from “lots of
very, very exciting companies,” Minskoff said.  Office demand in New York is shifting from the glossy
skyscrapers of Midtown preferred by banks to the quirkier mix of
neighborhoods to its south that’s home to Chelsea warehouses,
Soho galleries and the punky shops on St. Mark’s Place where
Joey Ramone and Madonna refined their fashion sense. Technology,
media and information firms that gravitate to the area took more
Manhattan office space than financial companies this year for
the first time, brokerage Cushman & Wakefield Inc. said.  About 44 percent of the 959,000 square feet (89,000 square
meters) they leased through May 15 was in  Midtown South , as the
market roughly between 30th and Canal streets is known.  Clamoring for Space  Asking rents for Midtown South’s most desired offices
averaged $66.74 a square foot on April 30, up 16 percent from
the end of 2011 and just $5.22 short of the average for top-
quality space in Midtown, where so-called Class A rents rose
only 1 percent, according to Cushman. Rates are surging in part
because companies are clamoring for offices in an area that has
less than a tenth of the Class A space found in Midtown.  “There’s always been a delta between the economics of
Midtown and Midtown South,” said David Falk,  New York  tri-state
region president of commercial brokerage Newmark  Knight Frank .
“What’s happened is very quickly, before our eyes, Midtown
South rents are rising higher than for many buildings in
Midtown. Buildings where maybe you’d pay $50 a foot are now
getting low $60s.”  The rent gap is closing as New York’s financial-services
industry “is in a total shakeup,” said Ruth Colp-Haber,
founding partner of Wharton Property Advisors Inc., a brokerage
that represents Manhattan office tenants.  Tech Hub  “They’re nervous about the elections in  Europe , the
elections here, about financial regulations, it’s very hard to
raise money for any of the  hedge funds ,” she said. “So that
demand is a lot more tentative. Where the growth is, is with the
tech firms.”  New York is the fastest-growing U.S. technology hub,
according to a study released this month by the Center for an
Urban Future. While information  technology  employment in the
city grew by 29 percent since 2007, securities industries jobs
fell 5.9 percent, the New York-based public-policy group said.  EBay Inc. (EBAY) , the  San Jose , California-based operator of the
world’s largest online marketplace, agreed this month to rent
about 35,000 square feet at 625 Avenue of the Americas, a 19th
century building west of Union Square that once housed the B.
Altman & Co. department store. Annual rent per square foot will
be in the “low $50s” over 10 years, said Sacha Zarba, the
company’s broker at CBRE Group Inc. The lower-than-average rate
reflects EBay’s strong credit rating, he said.  Buildings With ‘Character’  The Midtown South market ranges from historically affluent
Gramercy Park to the once-foreboding warehouse and factory areas
along the Hudson. The transformation of the High Line from an
abandoned rail trestle into an elevated park helped make the
Meatpacking District and West Chelsea two of the city’s most
desirable neighborhoods for companies that are outside of
Manhattan’s traditional financial base.  “They don’t want Midtown glass-curtain-wall buildings,”
Mary Ann Tighe, New York regional chief executive officer at
CBRE, said in an interview. “They want fully renovated former
industrial buildings, or buildings that have character.”  In the Flatiron district, where people queue up daily for
hamburgers at the Shake Shack in Madison Square Park, landlords
CIM Group and Sapir Organization are asking as much as $80 a
square foot for 296,000 square feet in the art-deco tower at 11
Madison Ave., according to two people with knowledge of the
landlords’ marketing effort. They asked not to be named because
the rates are private.  Across the park, developer Robert Lapidus said he’s close
to a deal for about $90 a square foot for the final floor
available at 200 Fifth Ave., a 14-story property at the corner
of East 23rd Street, where the gourmet food market Eataly draws
crowds of shoppers. He declined to name the tenant.  Pushing the Envelope  L&L Holding Co., Lapidus’s partnership with  David Levinson ,
acquired and renovated the 852,000-square-foot former toy
showroom building in 2007. Their first tenant, the advertising
firm Grey Group, agreed to pay about $75 a square foot that
year, Lapidus said in an interview.  Landlords can afford to push the envelope on rents because
of a limited supply of space in the area, he said.  “I have a friend who’s in private equity, and he does
mostly technology stuff,” Lapidus said. “He’s in Midtown now.
He’s signing a deal in the Meatpacking District, $80 a foot, in
not a great building. It’s an OK building, but there’s not a lot
of options out there.”  Midtown South had the lowest vacancy rate of any U.S.
business district in the first quarter, at 5.9 percent,
according to Cushman. The market has only 27 buildings of Class
A offices totaling 14.4 million square feet, compared with 320
buildings and 181 million square feet for Midtown, the New York-
based brokerage said.  Chelsea Market  The demand for space is behind a bid by Atlanta-based
Jamestown Properties to build 240,000 square feet of offices
atop its  Chelsea Market , a former cookie factory that houses
media and broadcasting companies, as well as a popular food
bazaar.  Property prices reflect the area’s rapid rise.  Epic UK
Ltd. , a New York- and London-based real estate firm led by
brothers Michael and Steven Elghanayan, bought the 155,000-
square-foot office building at 148 Lafayette St. in Soho this
month for about $132 million, or $850 a square foot. That was
higher than the per-square-foot price paid in January for 530
Fifth Ave., a 26-story tower near Grand Central Terminal in
Midtown, according to research firm Real Capital Analytics Inc.  The Soho building’s seller, Property Group Partners, had
purchased the 1913 former factory in 2007 for about $390 a
square foot, then refurbished it, adding new elevators, hardwood
floors and a glass penthouse. Fashion designer Dolce & Gabbana
became the lead tenant.  Thrillist Expands  Rent increases in Soho are unsettling to Eric Ashman, chief
financial officer of Thrillist Media Group, an  Internet company 
that was born in the neighborhood in 2005. The owner of websites
including  thrillist.com , which targets young men with
recommendations for stores, bars and restaurants, is seeking to
expand beyond its offices at 568 Broadway.  Seeing Soho landlords upgrade their buildings is an ominous
sign, he said.  “They’re telling people they need new lobbies, and then
they’re asking $60, $65 a square foot,” Ashman said in an
interview. “Those aren’t prices we’re going to pay.”  Fellow tenants at Thrillist’s current building include
Foursquare Labs Inc., maker of the smartphone application that
lets users tell their friends where they’re eating, drinking or
shopping.  Startups Squeezed  The market will probably get even tighter as startups
outgrow their “incubator” locations, companies into  Brooklyn 
and other less expensive markets, according to the Center for an
Urban Future report. A recovery by financial firms may squeeze
technology tenants even tighter.  “The phenomenal growth of New York’s tech sector has
occurred at a time when other key industries in New York were
not growing, and not absorbing a lot of real estate,” the
center said. “When law firms, media companies, architecture
firms, investment banks and other major sectors begin to grow
again, tech startups could find it far more challenging to find
space at the price points they have become accustomed to.”  Midtown South has had booms before, only to be followed by
busts, starting with the late 1990s when it became known as
Silicon Alley after an influx of Internet startups. Acres of
offices were abandoned in 2002 and 2003 when capital dried up
for the so-called dot-com companies. Later, the financial crisis
sent the  vacancy rate  soaring to 10 percent at the end of 2009.  Google Building  Then in December 2010,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  bought 111 Eighth Ave.
for $1.8 billion, one of the highest prices ever paid for a
single U.S. office building. The  Mountain View , California-based
owner of the world’s most popular search engine had leased about
550,000 square feet in the former freight terminal, which has
elevators capable of lifting trucks.  Google is taking over space in the 3 million-square-foot
building as leases expire, forcing some tenants to look
elsewhere. Spotify Ltd., the London-based music streaming
service, is among companies shopping for space, according to
Greg Taubin, executive managing director at Studley Inc., a New
York-based brokerage.  Many of the tenants from Google’s building are considering
lower Manhattan, where  vacancies  are higher, as an alternative
to staying in Chelsea, according to Tighe of CBRE.  Google today said it would donate 22,000 square feet to
 Cornell University  and Technion-Israel Institute of Technology
to use while they build a campus on Roosevelt Island. The school
is a city initiative to attract even more technology jobs and
compete with Silicon Valley.  More Conservative  While there’s always a chance of another bust in the
Midtown South market, it shouldn’t be as massive as the previous
ones, Taubin said.  “Many of the young tech companies are taking a more
conservative approach to their real estate, as opposed to years
past where it was spend, spend, spend,” he said in an e-mail.  The companies in the market now are mostly profitable,
which wasn’t the case back in 2000, according to Falk of Newmark
Knight Frank.  Minskoff, the 51 Astor Place landlord, said he expects a
company will pay for the opportunity to plant its flag in the
East Village the way Google asserted its presence in Chelsea.  “The Google building is a good building, but it’s a big
factory building,” he said. “It doesn’t knock your socks off.
Fifty-one Astor is like an island. It’s very, very visible.”  Maki’s Design  Maki, a Pritzker Prize-winning architect, designed the
400,000-square-foot project as three glassy geometric forms. The
plan for the 12-story tower, slated to be completed next year,
allows for roof gardens on the fifth and top floors. Its $300
million price tag is funded through a $165 million construction
loan from a syndicate of firms led by  Bank of America Corp. 
Cooper Union, the neighboring engineering school, owns the
building site.  At 11 Madison Ave., which serves as the U.S. headquarters
of Credit Suisse Group AG, the 30-story stone tower was built in
phases starting in 1928 by Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., now
known as MetLife Inc. CIM and Sapir are offering four floors in
the middle of the property that were vacated by  Weight Watchers
International Inc. (WTW) , among other tenants.  Bill Mendel, a CIM spokesman, said company policy is not to
discuss pending or potential leases. Rotem Rosen, a Sapir
spokesman, and Philip Russo, a spokesman for CBRE, which is
representing the landlords, declined to comment on the offering.  “The market will be watching 11 Madison and 51 Astor,”
Falk said. “We’re all anxious to see what someone will pay. I
believe they will find somebody who will rather be there than in
Midtown.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  