-- Tanzania to Choose Winner of Eyasi-Wembere Block by August
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-05-21T10:25:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/tanzania-to-choose-winner-of-eyasi-wembere-block-by-august-1-.html
Tanzania will probably decide by
August who will evaluate one of its last undeveloped oil and gas
exploration areas that may lead to a production-sharing deal.  The one-year geophysical surveying contract may pave the
way for drilling under a production-sharing agreement, said
Wellington Hudson, senior principle petroleum geologist at
national oil company  Tanzania Petroleum Development Corp .  The three companies that submitted tenders in closed-
bidding are  Beach Energy Ltd. (BPT)  and Swala Energy Ltd., both based
in  Australia , and U.K.-based Adamantine Energy Ltd., he said.  “This is one of Tanzania’s frontier areas,” Hudson said
today by phone from  Dar es Salaam , the nation’s commercial hub.
“This area has never been prospected, it’s completely new.”  Growing interest in exploration in  East Africa  has been
spurred by the discovery of oil in Uganda in 2006, finds of
natural gas in Tanzania and Mozambique, and the announcement in
March that  Kenya  had struck its first oil. Tanzania has at least
two commercial deposits in production.  BG Group Plc and Ophir Energy Plc said May 16 they had made
another discovery off Tanzania, encountering 55 meters of gas
about 45 kilometers (28 miles) from the maritime border with
 Mozambique  that may hold 3.5 trillion cubic feet of resources.  The so-called Eyasi-Wembere block in the country’s north,
near the border with Kenya, sits on the Rift Valley, and part of
it runs through the  Ngorongoro Conservation Area , Hudson said.  There’s been no development of the block previously because
of environmental concerns at the World Heritage Site, he said.  “It’s an environmentally sensitive area and the government
wants to do a non-adverse, non-destructive study which has
limited impact on the environment,” Hudson said.  The area is home to wildlife roaming the Ngorongoro Crater
and Serengeti Plains, as well as Alaitole, the site where some
of the earliest evidence of human footprints was found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 