-- Apple, Samsung Ordered Into Patent Settlement Conference
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-05-21T20:33:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/apple-samsung-ordered-into-patent-settlement-conference.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics
Co. are unlikely to resolve their worldwide fight over mobile
device patents in court-ordered talks that started today between
their chief executive officers, said lawyers following the case.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in  San Jose ,  California ,
ordered Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  to meet face to
face with Samsung CEO Choi Gee Sung. The general counsels of
both companies also were directed to participate in the two-day
mediation session to try settle Apple’s claims that Samsung’s
smartphones and tablet computers infringe patents covering the
design and feel of iPhones and iPads, as well as Samsung’s
infringement counterclaims related to its Galaxy smartphones.  Koh is trying to avert a July trial that she said this
month would amount to “cruel and unusual punishment” for a
jury because of the broad scope of the dispute. While the
meeting may lay the foundation for an agreement in months ahead,
Samsung’s dominance in the market with Android-based devices,
and Apple’s determined effort to protect its reputation for
innovation, may leave the companies too far apart to settle the
case this week.  “Nobody really expects the case be resolved on Monday or
Tuesday,” said Steven J. Henry, an intellectual property lawyer
at Wolf, Greenfield & Sacks in  Boston  who isn’t involved in the
litigation. “I don’t think we’re there yet, not in a war this
big. It’s a global war.”  10 Countries  Since the San Jose case was filed in April 2011, Apple and
Samsung have filed more than 30 such lawsuits against each other
in 10 countries. In response to Cupertino, California-based
Apple’s bids to block sales of Samsung devices and win billions
of dollars in damages, Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung has
asserted that Apple’s patents are invalid and claimed that it’s
the real victim of infringement.  The settlement negotiations are being handled by U.S.
Magistrate Judge Joseph C. Spero, who is based in San Francisco.  “The judge will try to get them to realize that it’s
better to come to some kind of business understanding than to
just roll the dice and let judge and jury do their job,” Henry
said. “I think they’re out to do more damage to each other
before they get to the point of resolution.”  Adam Yates , a spokesman for Samsung, declined to comment on
today’s settlement talks.  ‘Blatant Copying’  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple,  offered the same
statement the company has issued for months about developments
in the case, saying that Samsung’s “blatant copying is wrong,
and we need to protect Apple’s intellectual property when
companies steal our ideas.”  Apple on May 18 renewed its bid for a court order
immediately blocking Samsung’s sales of its Galaxy Tab 10.1
tablet in the U.S. While Koh previously rejected Apple’s request
for an injunction, the company said its new motion is based on
an appeals court’s May 14 opinion that Apple will probably
prevail on its patent infringement claim, according to Apple’s
May 18 court filing.  Apple and Samsung met in September, December and on May 4
to discuss settling their dispute before the U.S. International
Trade Commission, Apple said in a May 10 filing. The meetings
failed to produce a resolution, and Apple’s case against Samsung
is scheduled to begin trial at the Washington-based trade agency
on May 31, while Samsung’s patent-infringement claims against
Apple are set to go to trial at the agency June 4.  Block Imports  The ITC, which has the power to block imports of products
found to infringe U.S. patents, requires parties to meet in
hopes of a settlement before trials are held.  Koh’s order that the leaders of the companies meet in
person is meant to add pressure on them to reach a resolution
before a trial, said  Mark Lemley , a Stanford Law School
professor who specializes in intellectual property.  “It’s pretty common for judges to do this when the court
is serious about trying to push a settlement, though rarely are
the companies this big,” he said in an e-mail.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Paul S. Grewal in San Jose, who has
assisted Koh in the Apple case, last year ordered  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  chiefs  Larry Page  and  Larry Ellison  to hash out
their differences in person over the search engine company’s use
of the Java programming language to develop the Android
operating system for mobile devices. Page and Ellison met for
two consecutive days in sessions that lasted more than 10 hours
each day.  Oracle-Google Trial  “That didn’t work out so well,” Lemley said. Oracle’s
lawsuit against Google is now entering the sixth week of a
three-part trial in San Francisco eight months after the
settlement talks ordered by Grewal.  Samsung has profited from its ability to offer devices
running Android software at a wide range of prices. The company
sold more than 40 percent of all Android mobile phones in the
first quarter this year as the South Korean manufacturer became
the world’s largest handset maker,  Stamford , Connecticut-based
research company  Gartner Inc. (IT)  said. Android is currently
installed on 56 percent of new smartphones, more than twice
Apple’s share.  That gives Samsung leverage in its litigation against
Apple, along with Samsung’s position as Apple’s second-largest
supplier, Henry said.  Steve Jobs  Equally important is believing in your fight, Henry said.
To that end, Apple may be drawing inspiration not to back down
from the claim by  Steve Jobs , the company’s late co-founder,
that the iPhone and iPad are being “ripped off.”  Jobs, who mocked Samsung as a copycat in March 2011 when he
unveiled the iPad 2, gave the go-ahead for Apple to sue Samsung
in San Jose a month later and went after the company in five
other nations. He died in October.  Apple may feel “it will just lose too much face to
settle,” Henry said. “It would take a very good sales job to
come up smelling well from the settlement on Apple’s side. That
doesn’t mean it won’t happen, but the appearance is going to
have to be that they were victorious.”  As its market share of competing products is squeezed,
Apple is losing billions of dollars and is eager to get the San
Jose case to trial, the company’s lawyer, Harold McElhinny of
 Morrison & Foerster LLP , said in court this month.  Koh told the companies at a May 2 hearing that they failed
to follow her orders to narrow the number of patents, trademarks
and devices at issue. She said that if the case isn’t
sufficiently narrowed in coming weeks she may move the trial
date to sometime next year or tell Apple that it’s “free to sue
in another venue, and get five or six trials and get all the
devices and patents you want, but it’s not happening here.”  ‘Most Important’  McElhinny responded that “keeping the trial date is our
most important thing.” He offered to narrow the case further,
telling the judge that Apple “will meet whatever your honor has
in mind -- we have to do that.”  While the settlement may not happen today or tomorrow,
Henry and Lemley said they both believe the case won’t get to
trial.  “The parties will need to settle at some point in the
future; they can each do far too much damage to the other to
allow this to continue forever,” Lemley said.  “Each one has enough intellectual property to shut down
the other’s products,” he said. “I don’t think either one can
let that happen. So I think they will have to settle for money
eventually. Which way it flows, and how much, I don’t know.”  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co.,
11-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  