-- Apple Asks for Court Order Blocking Samsung Tablet Sales
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-05-22T00:44:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/apple-asks-for-court-order-blocking-samsung-tablet-computer-1-.html
Apple Inc. renewed its bid for a
court order immediately blocking sales of  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930) ’s Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet computer, relying on an appeals
court’s finding that it will probably win a patent infringement
claim.  Apple made a similar request last year to U.S. District
Judge Lucy Koh in San Jose,  California , as part of a broader
patent dispute over smartphones and tablets. She rejected the
proposed injunction in December.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington  said May 14 Apple can pursue its efforts to halt
sales of the Samsung tablet in the U.S. while the infringement
case is awaiting trial. The appeals court disagreed with Koh’s
ruling in December that Apple failed to show it was likely to
win its case on the merits, according to Apple’s May 18 filing.  “The court can and should enter a preliminary injunction
against sales of the infringing Galaxy Tab 10.1 without further
hearing,” Apple said in the filing. “Each day that Samsung
continues to sell its infringing Tab 10.1 causes additional harm
to Apple through design dilution, lost sales, lost market share,
and lost future sales of tag-along products.”  30 Lawsuits  Since the  San Jose  case was filed in April 2011, Apple and
Samsung have filed more than 30 such lawsuits against each other
in 10 countries. In response to Cupertino, California-based
Apple’s bids to block sales of Samsung devices and win billions
of dollars in damages, Samsung has asserted that Apple’s patents
are invalid and claimed that it’s the real victim of
infringement.  In a filing today, Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung said
Apple’s request for the injunction is “premature” because
Samsung will request a rehearing of the Federal Circuit
decision.  “Given the severity and importance of a preliminary
injunction motion, Samsung should have the right to prepare and
submit briefing and oral argument to the court,” lawyers for
Samsung said in today’s filing.  Koh ordered Apple Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook to meet
in person with Samsung CEO Choi Gee Sung today and tomorrow to
try to reach a settlement of the dispute.  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics Co.,
11-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  