-- Archer Sees Arabica’s Premium Over Robusta Falling About 50%
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-05-21T10:16:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/archer-sees-arabica-s-premium-over-robusta-falling-about-50-1-.html
The premium arabica coffee commands
over robusta beans may fall by about 50 percent as Brazilian
producers have sold less of their crop and robusta stockpiles in
 Europe  continue to fall, according to Archer Consulting.  The price difference between the two varieties may return
to 40 cents a pound, the Sao Paulo-based consultancy said in a
report e-mailed today. That would be the lowest since March
2009, data on Bloomberg show. The gap was at 79.4 cents a pound
by 11:06 a.m. in  London . Brazil is the world’s largest producer
of arabica coffee and Vietnam is the top robusta grower. Arabica
beans, brewed by specialty companies including  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) ,
trade in  New York  and robusta, used in instant coffee, trades in
London.  “If historical data is of any use, we see the arbitrage
between New York and London firming even more to the 40 cents a
pound level we saw for a long time and that could come from
either a stronger robusta or weakening of arabica,”  Rodrigo Costa , a coffee market specialist, wrote in the report.  Inventories of robusta coffee with valid certificates in
warehouses monitored by the NYSE Liffe exchange in London were
171,380 metric tons as of May 14, down 0.7 percent from 172,530
tons two weeks earlier, exchange data show. Stockpiles have been
falling since reaching an all-time high of 417,420 tons in July.
Growers in Brazil have sold less of their crop than in previous
years, according to Archer’s report.  Arabica coffee will probably fall to $1.60 a pound if the
Brazilian currency fails to rally and rains that are hampering
harvesting in growing areas stop, Costa said. The price may
struggle to rise above $1.80, he said.  “With the Brazilian currency so much weaker in such little
time, the Brazilian crop sold less than the average in normal
years. All factors point to new lows to come,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  