-- Argentine Peso Forwards Tumble as Parallel Rate Gap Widens
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2012-05-21T20:54:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/argentine-peso-forwards-tumble-as-parallel-rate-gap-widens-1-.html
Argentina’s peso tumbled in the
forwards market on speculation that a weakening in the parallel
 exchange rate  will prompt the government to quicken the slide in
the official rate.  Six-month non-deliverable peso forwards dropped 2.8 percent
to 5.335 per dollar, the weakest level since November 2008. The
three-month forwards fell 0.8 percent to 4.94 per dollar, the
lowest since July 2002, and the one-month forward sank 2.1
percent to a record 4.735 per dollar.  Investors are speculating that President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  may devalue the currency to bolster the
competiveness of Argentine exports. The peso has weakened 8.5
percent in the past 12 months in the spot market to 4.4637 per
 U.S. dollar  as the Brazilian real dropped 21 percent, making
Argentine goods relatively more expensive.  “There’s the perception that the currency is overvalued,”
said  Boris Segura , a Latin America analyst with Nomura
Securities International in  New York .  Currency controls imposed by Fernandez have pushed
investors in search of dollars to parallel currency markets. The
rate for the peso in the unregulated street market is about 5.7
per dollar. The so-called blue-chip rate, set by the price 
differential between Argentine assets bought locally and sold 
abroad, weakened 0.2 percent to 5.9524 per dollar today, pushing 
the gap with the official peso to a record 33 percent.  The spread may make it harder for the government, which
controls the official rate by buying and selling dollars in the
spot market, to sustain the currency, said Flavia Cattan- Naslausky, a markets strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc.  “This is when all these distortions start to show,” she
said. “They’re exacerbated by the lack of liquidity and the
fact that so many dollars have already left the system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Camila Russo in  Buenos Aires  at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  