-- Ackman, Goldman Bankers Seek Glory at ‘Baby’ Tennis Match
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-05-21T18:14:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/harvard-princeton-bankers-seek-net-glory-in-tennis-match.html
Days after  Bill Ackman  won control of
 Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP) , the nation’s second-largest
railway, he was at the  USTA Billie Jean King National Tennis
Center  trying to control his backhand against Wall Street’s
biggest hitters.  “My groundstrokes were actually pretty good,” the 46-
year-old chief of Pershing Square Capital Management said toward
the end of play at the  R Baby Foundation  doubles tournament. The
event was a fundraiser to aid emergency pediatric care. “I had
too many unforced errors.”  Unusual for its level of tennis and number of moguls, the
tournament took in more than $100,000 for the five-year-old
nonprofit.  “These are the top metro-area players,” said Whitney
Kraft, director of tennis at the center, in Queens, New York,
eyeing the 20 teams competing on seven courts at the home of the
 U.S. Open .  Barry Sternlicht , chief executive of Starwood Capital Group
LLC, who competed as a freshman for  Brown University  three
decades ago, played with Jason Pinsky, a 26-year-old analyst at
Wexford Capital LP once ranked No. 1 among U.S. juniors 18 and
under.  Teen Player  Pablo Salame, the 46-year-old co-head of global securities
at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , who lived at what’s now the  IMG
Bollettieri Tennis Academy  for three years as a teenager, was
paired with Adrian Contreras, a 36-year-old former No. 1 singles
at New Mexico State University and director of a  John McEnroe
Tennis Academy  opening in September in Eastchester, New York.  Ken Brody, who co-founded Taconic Capital Advisors and
founded the  Junior Tennis Champions Center  academy in  College
Park , Maryland, was on hand to watch his 24-year-old son,
Charles, formerly of the Kenyon College team. Charles Brody
played with Kyle Kliegerman, a No. 1 singles and doubles player
at  Princeton University  a decade ago and now at Taconic.  R Baby featured plenty of awe-inspiring shot-making and
varying consistency. Some players said they were adjusting to
wind and sun after playing indoors through the winter. Others
seldom play today.  “In investment banking, you have to give up your
weekends,” said  Kaes Van’t Hof , 25, also of Wexford Capital,
who in 2009 advanced to the second round of the  U.S. Open  in
men’s doubles with  Ryan Harrison . “My first year in  New York , I
played tennis four or five times, which is a shock after playing
seven days a week.”  Lone Female  On Saturday, his partner was Elena Piliptchak of Tiger
Europe Management, who played for  Kansas State University  and
was the lone female competing.  Ackman’s partner was 25-year-old Mariusz Adamski, a
business major and No. 1 doubles player at Wake Forest
University in  North Carolina . After they were introduced three
years ago by Jeffrey Appel, an investment banker, Ackman hired
Adamski at Pershing, a hedge fund. (Pinsky, the event chairman,
and Appel, of financial-services firm PrinceRidge, recruited
teams for the event.)  “I told him I’ll teach him the investment business and
he’s teaching me tennis,” said Ackman, who played high-school
tennis but did crew at Harvard College.  (Last week the chief executive of  Canadian Pacific ,  Fred Green , resigned after Ackman, the largest shareholder, pushed
for an alternative.)  Yoga Regimen  Sternlicht said his exercise regime includes yoga and
tennis in Greenwich, Connecticut, where he lives. “The headline
should be, ‘Ackman and Sternlicht’ chase perpetual youth,” he
joked during a break in play, as he compared the size of his
biceps with Van’t Hof’s.  After four sets of eight games each, four teams advanced to
the semi-finals. Goldman was well-represented, with three of the
final eight players. In the end, after almost seven hours of
practice and play, youth was triumphant.  The winners were Brian O’Connor, a 28-year-old Binghamton
University star who works for the insurer and estate planner
 American Business , and Jonathan Boym, a 24-year-old former No. 2
singles at the  University of Pennsylvania  now at Tudor
Investment Corp. They beat Salame and Contreras in the final, 6-
4.  “It was consistency and mental toughness,” O’Connor said
of their success in the event. “The older guys were a lot
better than I expected.”  Today’s Muse highlights include Philip Boroff on theater
and  John Mariani  on wine.  To contact the reporter of this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 