-- Stocks Advance With Commodities While Dollar, Yen Weaken
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-05-21T20:43:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/asian-stocks-gain-yen-weakens-as-china-pledges-to-boost-growth.html
Global  stocks  rebounded from the
worst week since September and commodities snapped a three-day
drop as China signaled it would support the economy and German
and French officials said they would work to keep Greece in the
euro. The yen and dollar weakened against most major peers.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed the most in two
months, surging 1.6 percent to 1,315.99 at 4 p.m. as takeover
news also boosted stocks.  Facebook (FB)  Inc. tumbled below its $38
offering price. Ten-year Treasury yields added two basis points
to 1.74 percent. The yen weakened against 15 of 16 major peers,
while the dollar declined against 14. The S&P GSCI Index of 24
raw materials rebounded from its 2012 low, with oil up 1.2
percent to $92.57 a barrel and copper climbing 1 percent.  Concern Greece will exit the euro has erased about $4
trillion from global stock markets this month. China should
adopt a “proactive fiscal policy and a prudent monetary
policy” to bolster the economy, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said over
the weekend. Germany will consider ways to spur European
economic growth and do “everything necessary” to keep Greece
in Europe’s currency union, German finance chief  Wolfgang
Schaeuble  said after meeting with France’s  Pierre Moscovici .  “Equity prices have gotten oversold,” said Mark Luschini,
chief investment strategist for Philadelphia-based Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC, which manages about $54 billion. “A more
positive tone regarding efforts to put together some growth-
related initiatives in Europe is enough to give investors a
pause from the selling pressure. In addition, any kind of talk
about recognizing China’s slowdown that could lead to stimulus
would be good for global activity.”  Rebound From Four-Month Low  The MSCI All-Country World Index of stocks rebounded 1.2
percent following last week’s 5.3 percent plunge, its worst
since the week ending Sept. 23.  An 8.7 percent tumble in the  S&P 500  from a four-year high
on April 2 through last week left the benchmark index  trading  at
13.1 times its companies’ reported earnings, the lowest
valuation since November, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The index’s  dividend  yield at the end of last week
was 2.17 percent while the rate on the 10-year Treasury note
slid to 1.72 percent, with the ratio between the two at the
highest since Oct. 3, the day the S&P 500 finished a 19 percent
plunge from its 2011 high in April.  The S&P 500 surged the most in two months and rebounded
from the lowest level since Jan. 17. Gauges of commodity,
technology and industrial companies rose more than 2 percent to
lead gains in nine of the 10 main industries.  Boeing Co. (BA) ,
Caterpillar Inc. and Hewlett-Packard Co. rose more than 2
percent for the biggest gains in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average , which surged 135.10 points to 12,504.48.  Cooper Industries  Cooper Industries  Plc surged 25 percent, the most in 11
years, after  Eaton Corp. (ETN)  agreed to buy the maker of electrical-
distribution equipment for $11.8 billion. Radian Group Inc.
surged 18 percent to lead a rally in mortgage insurers after
investor Clinton Group Inc. pushed for a sale of the company.  Facebook, the social networking site that raised $16
billion in its initial public offering, fell 11 percent to
$34.03, sinking below its $38 offer price in its second trading
day.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  yesterday blamed “poor design” in
the software it uses for driving auctions in initial public
offerings after Facebook shares were plagued by delays and
mishandled orders. Nasdaq OMX rose 3.6 percent, rebounding from
a 4.4 percent tumble on May 18.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  slipped for the sixth time in seven
sessions, losing 2.9 percent to a five-month low of $32.51. The
biggest U.S. bank by assets will suspend its daily stock
repurchase program while maintaining the quarterly  dividend ,
Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said while discussing
trading losses during an investor conference. The firm may face
bigger losses on faulty bets in credit markets if Europe’s debt
crisis worsens, according to one of the  hedge funds  that took
the other side of the trades.  JPMorgan Trades  “They’re not out of those positions,”  Michael Platt , co-
founder and chief executive officer of BlueCrest Capital
Management LLP, said today in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Inside Track.” “If we end up with a catastrophe
in Europe in the short run, they’re probably not positions that
anyone would want to have.”  Nickel, Brent crude and gasoline jumped more than 1.8
percent to lead gains in commodities. New York-traded oil rose
for the first time in seven sessions, rebounding from a six-
month low, amid bets China will boost growth and as Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. said the balance between supply and demand is
tightening.  Popolare Upgrades  Three shares gained for every one that fell in the  Stoxx
Europe 600 Index. (SXXP)  Fiat SpA and Renault SA led automakers higher,
jumping at least 4.7 percent.  Banco Popolare SC (BP)  climbed 19
percent as analysts from Bank of America Corp. to Exane BNP
Paribas upgraded the shares after Italy’s fourth-biggest bank
said regulatory approval to use internal risk models boosted its
 Tier 1 capital . Barclays Plc rose 2.2 percent after saying it
planned to sell its entire holding of asset manager BlackRock
Inc.  Credit-default swaps insuring European sovereign debt rose
for a seventh day, with the Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe
Index of contracts on 15 governments climbing 6.9 basis points
to 316.25, the highest since March. The euro increased 0.3
percent to $1.2813, rebounding from a four-month low.  Germany will consider all ideas on bolstering euro area
growth, Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said as he and his
French counterpart, Pierre Moscovici, sought to fashion a new
strategy amid the Greek electoral impasse.  ‘Everything on the Table’  “We will engage all ideas constructively and find
solutions in order to strengthen sustainable growth,” Schaeuble
said after meeting Moscovici for the first time today in Berlin.
Moscovici, who became finance minister last week, said President
Francois Hollandewants “everything on the table,” including
joint euro-area bonds, at a meeting of European leaders two days
from now.  The yen fell 0.4 percent against the dollar and lost 0.6
percent versus the euro. The yield on the 10-year Japanese
government bond rose three basis point to 0.86 percent.
Volatility on Japanese debt was the highest among developed
markets, according to measures of 10-year bonds, two-and 10-year
yield spreads and credit default swaps. The change in the
nation’s 10-year yield was 2.9 times the 90-day average.  The Bank of Japan, which starts a two-day meeting tomorrow,
expanded its asset-purchase program in February and April. Last
week, two bond-buying operations failed to attract the central
bank’s target for sell offers.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  advanced 0.8 percent,
increasing for the first time in seven days. The Shanghai
Composite Index added 0.2 percent and South Korea’s  Kospi index 
jumped 0.9 percent. Russia’s Micex Index rose 2.1 percent and
Poland’s WIG20 Index climbed 1.4 percent. The Serbian dinar
depreciated as much as 0.9 percent to a record low against the
euro after  Tomislav Nikolic , who advocates closer economic ties
with Russia, took the lead in yesterday’s presidential vote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  