-- Asset Managers Sell Euro at Fastest This Year, UBS Data Show
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-05-21T18:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/asset-managers-sell-euro-at-fastest-this-year-ubs-data-show.html
Asset managers sold the euro against
the dollar last week at the fastest pace since November,
according to UBS AG client flow data for Group-of-10 nations
currencies.  The heightened pace came as speculation increased that
 Greece  would leave the currency union, said  Geoffrey Yu , a
foreign-exchange strategist at UBS. Investors were taking
positions before the June 17 Greek election, which was called
after political leaders failed to form a government following an
inconclusive May 6 election.  “It’s long positions being cut,” London-based Yu said in
a telephone interview. “More and more investors believe that
the Greek exit is a rising probability, but we’re nowhere near
certainty.” A long position is a bet that the price of an asset
will increase.  The net flow of euros versus dollars in overall UBS client
orders last week was negative 7.6 on a scale of 10 to negative
10, UBS analysts wrote in a note today.  The euro has lost 3.5 percent this month versus the dollar,
falling against nine of its 16 most-traded counterparts tracked
by Bloomberg. It traded little changed at $1.2780 at 1:58 p.m.
in  New York .  UBS said its private clients also sold the shared currency
against the dollar, while corporate and hedge fund clients’
flows were “broadly flat.”  Euro sales against the Swiss franc were the third-largest
on record on a net basis, Yu said. Investors also sold the
Swedish krona, the Norwegian krone and the  New Zealand dollar 
against the greenback. Orders to purchase  Australia ’s dollar
were up last week.  UBS is the world’s fourth-biggest currency trader according
to Euromoney Institutional Investor Plc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  