-- Mauritius Commercial Bank Expects Net to Drop 10% Amid Bad Loans
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2012-05-21T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/mauritius-commercial-bank-expects-net-to-drop-10-amid-bad-loans.html
Mauritius Commercial Bank (MCB) , the island
nation’s biggest lender by market value, expects net income to
shrink 10 percent this fiscal year as it increased provisions
for bad loans, according to the head of its banking unit.  The lender will boost provisions for non-performing loans
to 4 percent of its 125.7 billion rupees ($4.2 billion) loan
portfolio, up from 3.4 percent, Antony Withers said in an
interview in Port Louis, the nation’s capital. Net income should
surpass 4 billion rupees for fiscal 2012, compared with 4.52
billion rupees last year, and profit excluding one-time items
should be little changed, he said.  The sovereign-debt crisis in  Europe , the Indian Ocean
island nation’s main trading partner, is hurting Mauritian
companies as the rupee appreciates versus the euro and
constrains tourism. The lender’s net income last year was
boosted by an out-of-court settlement of 250 million rupees last
year, according to financial statements on its website.  “It is, on balance, a positive result given the challenging
backdrop,” including the stronger rupee, Withers said. “The
economic climate is undoubtedly tougher. We see that in a range
of businesses.  Cash flow  is tighter than before.”  Allowances for credit impairments almost doubled to 373.7
million rupees for the nine months through March compared with
the similar period a year earlier, the company said when it
reported nine-month figures on May 14. For fiscal 2011, impaired
loans were 315.1 million rupees.  Regional Growth  Withers said growth in the lender’s corporate and
institutional business in the Indian Ocean region is outpacing
that in its home market. MCB, as the lender is known, operates
in Reunion Island, Seychelles, Madagascar,  Mozambique  and the
Maldives, it said in its  fiscal 2011 annual report .  “If the results are on par with last year, it would be a
commendable performance given the current economic
environment,” said Bhavik Desai, an analyst at Port Louis-based
Axys Stockbroking Ltd., which has a buy rating on MCB.  MCB was founded in 1838, making it the island’s oldest
bank. The lender also reported on May 14 that nine-month profit
was “virtually unchanged” at 3.03 billion rupees, while net
interest income advanced 11 percent to 4.84 billion rupees.  The island’s economy is expected to grow 3.6 percent this
year, Statistics Mauritius said on March 30, reducing its
previous forecast of 4 percent. Tourist arrivals from Europe
shrunk 2.7 percent during the first quarter through March.  The  stock  has outperformed the 38-member  SEMDEX index  this
year, gaining 1.2 percent compared with a 3.3 percent drop in
the Mauritian benchmark.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in  Port Louis  at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  