-- Azeris Pressured by Iran to Cut Israel, West Ties, Official Says
-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 2012-05-21T17:49:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/azeris-pressured-by-iran-to-cut-israel-west-ties-official-says.html
Iran  is pressuring Azerbaijan to cut
ties with  Israel  and Western nations as tensions mount over the
Persian Gulf state’s nuclear program, an aide to Azeri President
 Ilham Aliyev ’s said.  “Iran is telling us to sever our relationships with Israel
and the West,” which is unacceptable to Azerbaijan, Ali Hasanov, head of the social and political department of the
presidential office, told reporters in the capital, Baku today.
Azeris won’t join Western-led efforts that target Iran, he said.  Iran is behind a “serious anti-Azerbaijan” campaign,
trying to create a rift between the oil-rich former Soviet
republic and its allies before the Eurovision Song Contest that
starts tomorrow in Baku, Hasanov said.  Azeri officials have sought to ease Iranian concerns about
plans to buy Israeli drones and missile-defense systems valued
at $1.6 billion, with Hasanov saying in March the weapons are
intended to strengthen the country’s defense capability because
of its conflict with  Armenia  over the disputed Nagorno-Karabakh
region. Companies led by London-based BP Plc have invested about
$33 billion in Azerbaijan’s and gas fields since 1994.  Foreign Policy magazine reported in March that the Caspian
Sea nation, which shares a 756-kilometer (470-mile) border with
Iran, had offered some of its airports to Israel for possible
air strikes against Iran, citing unnamed U.S. intelligence
agents. Azerbaijan and Israel have rejected the report.  Azeris in Iran  “There are 30 million Azeris living in Iran,” Hasanov
said. A possible “bombing of Iran would be like bombing of
Azerbaijan.”  Almost a quarter of Iran’s 75 million people are ethnic
Azeri, while Iran’s Shiite religion is shared by two-thirds of
Azerbaijan’s 9-million population.  Officials from the U.S.,  Russia ,  China , the U.K.,  France 
and  Germany , the so-called P5+1 group, plan to hold talks with
Iranian counterparts in Baghdad on May 23 in a bid to curb
Iran’s nuclear activities. Iran says it needs nuclear energy for
civilian purposes, while the U.S. and others are concerned the
Islamic republic may be seeking weapons technology.  The European Union plans to impose an oil embargo beginning
July 1 and Israel hasn’t ruled out attacking Iranian nuclear
installations unless it stops enriching uranium. Some countries
favor more than ever using a military strike to stem Iran’s
nuclear ambitions, Russian  Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov  told reporters yesterday.  Iran is also seeking to impose its version of Islam on
 Azerbaijan , the Azeri official said.  “We have our own model” of Islam “and everybody knows
it,” Hasanov said.  Thousands of Iranians demonstrated outside the Azeri
consulate in the northwestern city of Tabriz and other parts of
the country in the past few weeks. The annual Eurovision music
contest, which draws an estimated audience of 125 million
television viewers, is the world’s most watched singing
competition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  