-- Barclays Warns Investors Away From Buying Its Natural Gas ETN
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-05-21T19:57:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/barclays-warns-investors-away-from-buying-its-natural-gas-etn.html
Barclays PLC (BARC) , the largest provider of
exchange-traded notes, said most investors shouldn’t buy its ETN
tied to natural gas because the security isn’t properly tracking
its underlying index.  The  iPath Dow Jones-UBS Natural Gas Total Return Sub-Index
ETN , known by its ticker GAZ, has traded at a more than 20
percent premium over the commodity index since Feb. 8, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. From Jan. 31 through May 17, the
ETN rose 18 percent while the linked index dropped 19 percent,
the bank said in a May 18 statement distributed by  Business
Wire .  “Due to likely continued fluctuations in this premium,
Barclays believes that the ETNs are currently not suitable for
most investors and will not track the price of the underlying
natural gas futures index in a consistent manner,” the London-
based bank said in the statement.  Barclays stopped issuing new GAZ shares in August 2009,
which may cause the notes “to trade at a premium or discount in
relation to their indicative value,” the bank said in a
statement at the time.  The note  currently trades at a 26 percent
 premium  over its underlying index, or its indicative value, the
highest among more than 1,000 U.S. exchange-traded products,
Bloomberg data show. ETNs have come under scrutiny after one
from  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  lost 50 percent of its value in two
days in March.  SEC Review  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission put the
VelocityShares Daily 2x VIX Short-Term ETN under review in
March, according to a person familiar with the matter who asked
not to be identified because the inquiry isn’t public. The
Zurich-based bank had stopped creating new shares of the ETN on
Feb. 21, unhinging the note’s price from the index and leading
to a premium that peaked at 89 percent on March 21.  Mark Lane , a spokesman for Barclays, declined to comment
about the timing of its announcement about GAZ. The premium for
the ETN reached a high of 134 percent on March 19.  “I’m assuming they’re thinking ‘better late than never,”’
said Ron Rowland, founder of Capital Cities Asset Management
Inc. in Austin,  Texas , and editor of Invest With An Edge, an
exchange-traded funds newsletter. “Most people still buying and
selling don’t have any idea that it’s trading at a premium.”  ETNs are unsecured bank debt backed by their issuer’s
credit, unlike exchange-traded funds, which hold assets. Banks
create and redeem shares of ETNs based on the level of demand
for the securities. That demand typically doesn’t affect the
price since the ETNs track the performance of an index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in  New York  at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 