-- Barclays to Sell Entire $6.1 Billion BlackRock Investment
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-05-21T20:57:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/barclays-to-sell-entire-6-1-billion-blackrock-investment.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-
largest bank by assets, will sell its entire $6.1 billion stake
in  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  before the latest round of Basel rules stops
it from counting the holding as capital.  BlackRock, the  fund manager  started by former mortgage-bond
trader  Laurence Fink , will buy back as much as $1 billion of
shares from Barclays as part of the transaction, the London-
based bank said in a statement today. The British bank took the
19.6 percent holding when it sold  Barclays Global Investors  to
BlackRock in December 2009 for about $15.2 billion.  The latest rules from the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  will force the lender to set aside capital against
the stake to cushion itself against any decline in the value of
the holding. BlackRock has slipped about 24 percent since the
purchase was completed, prompting Barclays to write down the
value of its stake in 2011 to about 3.4 billion pounds ($5.3
billion).  “It’s a less attractive asset under the Basel III rules,”
said  Ian Gordon , an analyst at Investec in London who rates the
bank a buy. “Barclays can remove it from that debate.”  Barclays,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Bank of America  Corp. are
overseeing the sale of about 29 million shares to money
managers, including the over-allotment option. They expect to
set a price for the stock on May 23, according to a term sheet
for the offering.  BlackRock fell 2.4 percent to $167.73 in  New York . The
stock closed at $147.72 on May 22, 2009, when BlackRock made the
non-binding offer for BGI, before rising 54 percent to $227.08
the day before the purchase was completed that year. Barclays
increased 2.2 percent to 180 pence in London trading today.  A further statement will be issued following the pricing of
the offering, Barclays said. A spokesman for the lender in
London declined to comment beyond today’s statement.  ‘Good Anchor’  “BlackRock taking $1 billion of this gives Barclays a good
anchor investor to start this,” said  Christopher Wheeler , a
London-based analyst at Mediobanca SpA. “What this does for
Barclays is get rid of a lot of volatility in this holding.”  Regulators are forcing banks to assign higher risk
weightings to shares in financial companies to ensure they are
adequately capitalized individually and discourage them from
owning one another. By boosting those weightings, regulators can
force banks to set aside more capital, reducing profitability.  Barclays Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  is selling
assets and focusing on the lender’s most profitable operations
to help him meet his 13 percent target for return on equity, a
measure of profitability. He sold the bank’s consumer and
commercial bank operations in Russia in October and a private
equity unit in November. Diamond will step down from BlackRock’s
board following the sale, the fund manager said today.  Biggest Asset Manager  BlackRock paid Barclays 37.6 million common and preferred
shares and $6.65 billion in cash to acquire the unit in 2009.
BlackRock’s shares surged from the time it announced the
transaction in June 2009 until the purchase was completed in
December that same year, as the deal made the firm into the
world’s biggest asset manager and added passive products such as
the iShares exchange-traded funds to its offerings.  “BlackRock’s relationship with Barclays has always been
strong and will remain so,”  Brian Beades , a spokesman for
BlackRock, said in an e-mailed statement today. “Our plan to
repurchase shares demonstrates BlackRock’s commitment to
effectively executing our capital management strategy and
returning cash to shareholders through buybacks and dividends.”  BlackRock said last May it had agreed to buy back  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) ’s remaining stake of 13.6 million shares for $2.5
billion. The bank acquired its stake in the New York-based money
manager through the purchase of Merrill Lynch & Co. in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  