-- Suicide Bomber in Yemen Capital Kills Scores of Soldiers
-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 2012-05-22T08:19:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/blast-hits-military-parade-in-yemen-s-capital-ministry-says-1-.html
Yemen ’s president attended a
Unification Day military parade in Sana’a today, a day after
scores of soldiers were killed by a suicide bomber during a
rehearsal for the event.  Abdurabuh Mansur Hadi was accompanied by senior government
and military officials, the state-run Saba news agency said. He
vowed yesterday to continue the fight against al-Qaeda, whose
Yemeni affiliate claimed responsibility for the bombing in an e-
mailed statement, saying its target was Defense Minister
Mohammed Naser Ahmed.  The minister and Chief of Staff Ahmed al-Ashwal both
escaped uninjured, the  Defense Ministry  said on its website. It
said the bombing near the presidential palace in Yemen’s capital
killed more than 90 people and wounded about 220.  Yemen’s army has been battling militants associated with
the local al-Qaeda affiliate, known as al-Qaeda in the Arabian
Peninsula, as the government fights to recapture cities in the
southern province of Abyan. Government forces and allied
fighters forced al-Qaeda militants to flee the suburbs outside
the city of Lawdar on May 17.  The perpetrators “wanted to turn the joy of our people
with the unity day into sorrow,” President Abdurabuh Mansur Hadi said in a speech to the nation. “The war on terrorism will
continue until it is uprooted and defeated completely whatever
the sacrifices are.”  Abyan Reprisal  The al-Qaeda statement said the bombing was in reprisal for
the government attacks in Abyan, and denounced what it called
U.S. and Saudi interference in Yemen.  Saudi Arabia will host a meeting tomorrow on Yemen to be
attended by representatives from more than 40 countries, as well
as international organizations such as the  World Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund , Saba said, citing Foreign Minister
Abu Bakr Al-Kurbi.  The suicide bomber, wearing an army uniform, struck near
the entrance to the palace as the army prepared for today’s
National Day of Unification, marking the creation of Yemen
through the merger of the south and north in 1990.  The  United Nations Security Council  condemned the attack.
U.S. counterterrorism adviser  John Brennan  called Hadi yesterday
to express President  Barack Obama ’s condolences and pledge U.S.
support, according to  a statement  yesterday from the White
House.  Hadi fired two senior members of the security forces, one
of them a nephew of former president Ali Abdullah Saleh, Saba
said.  Separatist Revolt  Saleh, who ruled for three decades, ceded power last year
after months of mass protests. The unrest weakened a central
government that has struggled to quell Shiite Muslim rebels in
the north and a separatist movement in the south, as well as al-
Qaeda militants. Hadi was elected president unopposed in
February.  Yemen, the poorest Arab country, lost $2.5 billion in
revenue due to attacks on the country’s main oil pipeline during
the conflict, the oil and minerals minister, Hisham Sharaf, said
last week.  Yemen borders  Saudi Arabia  and Oman at the southern tip of
the Arabian Peninsula. The conflict there has raised concerns
that it may slide into the kind of lawlessness that grips
Somalia, across the  Gulf of Aden , where there has been no
functioning administration since 1991. Somalia has become a
staging post for pirates who attack merchant shipping lanes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Dubai at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  