-- BofA Chief Says Dimon Will Do What’s Needed to Cap Losses
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-05-21T20:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/bofa-chief-says-dimon-will-do-what-s-needed-to-cap-losses.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  has the experience needed to manage the
fallout from trading losses, and market disruptions haven’t been
serious,  Bank of America Corp.  CEO  Brian T. Moynihan  said today.  Trading didn’t freeze and markets behaved “reasonably
well” given the circumstances after Dimon disclosed at least
$2 billion in trading losses at JPMorgan’s chief investment
office, Moynihan said today at a Manhattan investor conference.
Dimon has shown he’s got the skills to handle the affair, said
Moynihan, whose  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank ranks
second by assets behind New York-based JPMorgan.  “He’ll manage through it and do what he needs to do for
the company,” Moynihan, 52, said of Dimon, 56. “It has caused
great concern in the markets, but I don’t think it has disrupted
the markets.”  Moynihan has disclosed plans to trim as much as $8 billion
from expenses and announced 30,000 job cuts last year to boost
profit and restore capital. His turnaround efforts have been
overshadowed as investors focused on trading losses at JPMorgan.
While damage may expand, Dimon told the audience earlier he’s
not worried about the ultimate size of the loss and that
“there’s no outcome that will be a disaster.”  Open for Business  Markets haven’t “shut down” as some did in response to
global turmoil such as the Greek debt crisis or last year’s
debate to raise the U.S. debt ceiling, Moynihan said.  “That doesn’t mean it can’t happen but it hasn’t happened
yet,” Moynihan said, in answering a question about whether
JPMorgan’s efforts to end its money-losing trade may roil
markets. Bank of America has become a  safer bank  after it
trimmed or closed units to take risk out of the firm, he said.  Bank of America dropped 2.7 percent to $6.83 at 4 p.m. in
 New York , leaving it up 23 percent this year, the most in the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average. (INDU)  The stock fell 58 percent in 2011.  JPMorgan is under pressure from investors and regulators to
explain how the chief investment office, which is assigned to
manage excess cash while minimizing risk, made wrong-way bets on
illiquid  credit derivatives , some of them so large that they
distorted market prices. Even if the loss gets bigger, the
affair is an “isolated event” and the ensuing investigations
aren’t likely to find any big  surprises , Dimon said.  JPMorgan is in no rush to unwind its holdings, even if
adverse market moves produce bigger losses in the short term,
Dimon said.  Good Behavior  “Do we worry about it? 100 percent,” Moynihan said. “Do
we worry about it all the time? Absolutely. Do we have lots of
people worrying about it for us? Yes, but the answer is the
markets have behaved reasonably well.”  Bank of America has finished work on Phase 2 of its cost-
cutting program, dubbed Project New BAC, which concerns
reductions at the investment banking and trading subsidiaries
run by  Thomas Montag , Moynihan said. While he didn’t formally
announce reductions in those operations yet, they’ll be spread
among junior and senior employees, a person with knowledge of
the matter has said. The first phase of Project New BAC focused
on retail and technology.  In March, Bank of America cut debt and equity traders and
salespeople, including more than half a dozen in mortgages. The
entire bank had 278,688 full-time workers as of March 31.  Moynihan has said he’s counting on trading units to help
revive income at the lender, whose consumer operations have been
hobbled by more than $40 billion of expenses tied to faulty
mortgages. Montag’s subsidiaries swung to a profit in the first
quarter, with positive trading revenue every day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  