-- Bond Spreads Soar as JPMorgan Goes ‘Underweight’: Credit Markets
-- B y   A l a n   G o l d s t e i n
-- 2012-05-21T15:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/bond-spreads-soar-as-jpmorgan-goes-underweight-credit-markets.html
The riskiest part of the global
corporate  bond market  is driving relative yields on company debt
to the widest levels in more than three months as speculation
mounts that the economic recovery is faltering.  The extra yield investors demand to hold bonds rather than
government debt widened 22 basis points last week, the most
since November, to 305 basis points, or 3.05 percentage points,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. Spreads
on speculative-grade notes soared 54 to 713.  “Every time I look at the high-yield bond market it’s
getting sicker,”  Jeffrey Gundlach , chief executive officer of
Los Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital LP, said May 17 at a
conference at Bloomberg LP headquarters in New York. His $24.7
billion DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund has returned 4.1
percent this year, beating about 95 percent of rivals.  Concern is building that borrowers will have a harder time
meeting debt payments as  Greece  struggles through a political
crisis that may see it exit  Europe ’s common currency and send
the euro region into a recession.  Retail sales  in the U.S. rose
at the slowest pace of the year in April and in China,  home
prices  fell in a record number of cities. The global economy may
expand 2.27 percent this year, down from 2.83 percent in 2011,
according to Bloomberg surveys of analysts.  Sales Fall  From the U.S. to Europe and  Asia , corporate bond sales are
falling, with issuance last week dropping 9.46 percent to $68.9
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Harland Clarke
Holdings Corp., a San Antonio-based provider of checks to
financial institutions, Select Medical Holdings Corp. in
Mechanicsburg,  Pennsylvania , and Toronto-based HudBay Minerals
Inc. pulled offerings, all citing market volatility.  “The market’s tone has become decidedly jittery,” New
York-based Citigroup Inc. high-yield credit strategists  Michael Anderson  and Robert Feigenberg wrote in a report last week.  Fixed-income strategists at JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a
report to clients dated May 18 that they expect both investment-
grade and high-yield debt to underperform.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. declined from the
highest level in almost five months, with the Markit CDX North
America Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, declining by
2.2 basis points to a mid-price of 121.2 basis points as of
11:29 a.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. The index ended last week at the highest since Dec.
21.  The index typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Goldman Most Active  The U.S. two-year  interest-rate  swap spread, a measure of
bond market stress, declined 2.1 basis points to 35 basis points
as of 11:29 a.m. in New York. The gauge narrows when investors
favor assets such as corporate bonds and      widens when they
seek the perceived safety of  government securities .  Bonds of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  are the most actively
traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
with 44 trades of $1 million or more as of 11:30 a.m. in New
York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The Barclays Capital Global Aggregate Corporate Index has
lost 1.22 percent this month, paring returns for the year to
3.54 percent.  Widening Spreads  Relative yields from the most creditworthy to the riskiest
borrowers have climbed from this year’s low of 264 basis points
on March 20, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Global Broad Market Corporate & High Yield Index. Spreads are at
the widest since Feb. 2 following the biggest weekly expansion
since the period ended Nov. 25.  Spreads on investment-grade company debt expanded 16 basis
points last week to 225 basis points, climbing from this year’s
low of 194 on March 20, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate index.  Speculative-grade spreads have reached the widest since
February from a 2012 low of 620 basis points on March 19,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global High Yield
Index. Last week’s increase was the biggest since the five days
ended Sept. 23.  “The cash market finally saw some real weakness this week
as sentiment turned more negative,” Barclays Plc credit
strategists led by Jeffrey Meli and Bradley Rogoff in New York
said in a research note on May 18.  Record Low Yields  Overall yields ended last week at 4.23 percent. While
that’s up from 4.06 percent on May 8, they’re still at about
record lows and compare with 8.73 percent at the height of the
credit crisis in March 2009.  Companies have taken advantage of a drop in borrowing costs
in recent years to refinance debt and extend maturities,
bolstering their balance sheets and curbing defaults.  Battle
Creek , Michigan-based  Kellogg Co. (K) , the biggest U.S. cereal
maker, obtained the lowest coupons in its history when it sold
$1.45 billion of three-, five- and 10-year debt last week.  “Good  cash flow  and receptive  capital markets , which are
generally allowing companies proactively to refinance maturities
and address potential covenant violations, underpin the
favorable corporate liquidity position,” analysts at Moody’s
Investors Service said last week in a report.  Bond spreads show that investors are starting to wonder
whether  credit quality  has peaked, given the political turmoil
in Europe and signs of a slowing economy elsewhere.  Greece, Retail Sales  In Greece, post-election attempts to form a ruling
coalition broke down last week, sending Greeks back to the polls
next month with surveys giving the lead to an anti-bailout party
that would tear up the conditions attached to 240 billion euros
($307 billion) of aid.  In the U.S., consumers took a break from a shopping spree
in prior months, as government reports show  retail sales  gained
0.1 percent in April following a 0.7 percent increase in March.  In  China , the National Bureau of Statistics said May 18
that prices of new homes fell from a year earlier in 46 of the
70 cities it tracks.  Corporate bond sales worldwide compare with a weekly 2012
average of $79.5 billion, Bloomberg data show. Sales this month
total $198 billion, bringing the year-to-date total to $1.58
trillion. Sales this time last year were $1.6 trillion.  Harland Clarke cited “market conditions” for canceling an
offering of $295 million of senior secured notes, the company
said in a regulatory filing on May 18.  HudBay discontinued its $400 million sale of notes due 2020
announced last week.  “Although the funding we were seeking was available to us,
poor overall market conditions caused the proposed interest rate
to exceed our cost of capital criteria,” Chief Executive
Officer David Garofalo said in a statement on May 18.  Select Medical terminated its $365 million sale on May 14,
saying in a statement that the company “elected not to move
ahead with the refinancing due to the rates currently available
for the new debt financing in the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  