-- Brazil Rule Changes to Free 18 Billion Reais for Auto Loans
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2012-05-22T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/brazil-stimulates-banks-to-boost-car-lending-as-sales-slump-1-.html
New rules from  Brazil ’s central bank
will free as much as 18 billion reais ($8.82 billion) for auto
financing as policy makers seek to revive economic growth in the
world’s biggest emerging market after  China .  As part of a stimulus package announced yesterday, the
central bank will reduce reserve requirements so lenders can
boost credit for car purchases. Taxes on vehicles will also fall
while the state development bank channels more subsidized
funding to companies that invest in equipment. The measures will
cost the government 2.7 billion reais ($1.3 billion) between now
and Aug. 31, when most of the measures expire.  “We are facing an escalation of the international
crisis,” Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters in
Brasilia. “This demands that we redouble our efforts to
maintain economic growth at a reasonable rate.”  To compensate for the measure that goes into effect today,
the central bank will no longer allow larger Brazilian lenders
to use inter-bank deposits into smaller rivals to meet some of
their  reserve requirements , central bank Monetary Policy
Director Aldo Mendes said yesterday.  The central bank will also increase to 36 percent the
amount of reserve requirements on  time deposits  that will no
longer receive interest payments starting June 22, Mendes told
reporters in Brasilia yesterday.  Faltering Expansion  Brazil’s economic expansion faltered in the first quarter
even as the government cut borrowing costs to near record lows,
reduced taxes on home appliances and boosted subsidized credit.
Economists have been cutting their forecast for growth this
year, after activity unexpectedly contracted in March.  In exchange for the tax breaks, automakers pledged to cut
prices by as much as 10 percent and avoid layoffs, Mantega said.  Vehicle sales fell 11 percent in April from a year ago,
according to the National Federation of Automotive Vehicle
Distributors, known as Fenabrave. While sales of cars rebounded
5 percent in the first 15 days of May, sales of heavy trucks and
buses plunged 28 percent. Fenabrave this month lowered to 3.5
percent its forecast for sales growth this year compared with an
estimate of 5.8 percent in January.  Robust demand that led to record sales last year of 5.8
million vehicles had been buoying automakers even as a 24
percent rally in the currency between the end of 2008 and start
of this year fueled a surge in imported cars from China, Mexico
and  South Korea .  Still, with the economy slowing, consumers are being more
cautious and banks are restricting credit for car purchases as
bad loans mount. The default rate on auto loans rose for the
15th straight month in March to 5.7 percent from 3 percent a
year earlier, according to the central bank.  Cheaper credit and longer maturities will help reverse the
declining credit performance, Mantega said.  Furloughs  Daimler AG ordered a mandatory nine-day furlough in April
for workers at its Mercedes-Benz truck factory outside  Sao
Paulo , and Ford Motor Co. and Volkswagen AG are also slowing
their assembly lines in Brazil, as stockpiles of unsold vehicles
increase.  Brazil’s auto industry is the world’s third largest and
responsible for 20 percent of the country’s industrial economy,
Mantega told reporters yesterday in Brasilia.  Brazil’s seasonally adjusted economic  activity  index, a
proxy for gross domestic product, fell 0.35 percent in March,
after dropping in January and February, the central bank said
May 18.  Analysts expect GDP to expand 3.09 percent in 2012,
compared with 3.20 percent a week earlier, according to the
median estimate in a central bank survey published yesterday.  Interest Rate Cuts  The central bank has reduced the benchmark  interest rate  by
3.5 percentage points since August, more than any member of the
Group of 20 nations, to 9 percent. Traders expect policy makers
will lower the rate to at least a record low 8.5 percent next
week.  Mantega said GDP growth this year will be higher than the
2.7 percent expansion in 2011, adding the economy will expand at
a 4.5 percent annual pace in the second half.  “I can assure you that we are 100 percent, 200 percent,
300 percent prepared” to counter the effects of a worsening
global crisis, President  Dilma Rousseff  said yesterday at an
event in the southern state of Santa Catarina.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  