-- Brazil Private-Banking Firm GPS Looks to Double Assets
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2012-05-21T18:05:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/brazil-private-banking-firm-gps-looks-to-double-assets.html
GPS Investimentos Financeiros e
Participacoes SA, the Brazilian private-banking firm partly
owned by  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , is trying to double its 11
billion reais ($5.42 billion) in assets under management in the
next five years.  To achieve its goal, GPS is looking to attract new clients
and investing in the Rio de Janeiro office to take customers
away from smaller multifamily offices in the city, Geraldo Lamounier, a partner at the firm, said in an interview in Sao
Paulo. The firm hired five people in Rio and transferred a
senior partner, Ian Dubugras, to build relationships with local
customers. Dubugras is the former chief executive officer of
Bank of America Corp. in  Brazil .  The private-banking industry in Brazil expanded almost 22
percent in 2011, to 434.4 billion reais in total assets, after
an increase of 23 percent in 2010, according to Anbima, the
Brazilian capital-markets association.  “The valuation of Brazilian assets like real estate
properties, commodities prices and the new money that enters the
country through equity offerings has created a new bunch of
millionaires,” Lamounier said.  GPS, founded in 1999 by Jose Eduardo Martins, Marco Belda
and Roberto Rudge, is the biggest independent multifamily office
in Brazil. It attracted an investment last year from  Julius
Baer , the Swiss wealth manager established in 1890, which
purchased 30 percent of the company for an undisclosed amount to
expand in Latin America.  About 50 percent of GPS’s total assets are from  Sao Paulo ,
and it runs the biggest multifamily office in the Brazilian
states of  Minas Gerais  and  Rio Grande  do Sul. It has 90
employees and 450 clients.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  