-- Brit Love Triangle; Will Eno’s ‘Title and Deed’: Theater
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-05-21T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/brit-love-triangle-will-eno-s-title-and-deed-theater.html
Despite the crowing provocation of
its title, “C*ck” is a conventional love triangle with a
twist. None of the three main characters is much of a catch,
particularly the indecisive young two-timer who’s considered the
prize of the competition.  The passe question posed in the play (the title refers
neither to a male chicken nor to the act of readying a pistol to
fire), is whether a gay man in a committed relationship can fall
for a woman.  Mike Bartlett’s drama, at off-Broadway’s  Duke on 42nd
Street , was imported from  London ’s  Royal Court Theatre . It
concerns dainty young John (Cory  Michael Smith ) and his older,
sardonic partner (Jason Butler Harner), who identifies himself
as a broker. Stocks, bonds or real estate isn’t specified.  During a temporary relationship rift, John takes up with a
woman closer to his age (Amanda Quaid), surprising no one more
than himself, as he’s never shown much interest in the opposite
sex.  Thick or Thin  Upon returning to the broker, John confesses he’s in love
with a woman and needs “straightening out.” The two men had
pledged to stay with each other, John says, “no matter what.
And this is what. Thick or thin, we said, and this is thin.”  The talk gets salty, though the barely suggestive onstage
sex has minimal touching and no disrobing.  The performers, directed by James Macdonald on a tiny
round, bare stage, are marvelous. Although American, they’re so
at home in their accents you’d think they flew over on the same
plane as the cast of “One Man, Two Guvnors.” Miriam Buether
has dressed them with keen attention to detail.  Even at 90 minutes, the experience of sitting on thin
cushions in the custom-built indoor wooden amphitheater (choose
the last row for back support) is rough on the b*tt.  At 229 W. 42nd St. Information: +1-646-223-3010;
 http://www.cockfightplay.com . Rating: **  ‘Title and Deed’  “I’m not from here,” a man says at the outset of Will
Eno’s “ Title and Deed”  at  New York ’s Signature Theatre. “I
guess I never will be. That’s how being from somewhere works.”  Identified in the Playbill as “Man,” actor Conor Lovett
asks the audience not to hate him.  “I know that’s not something you can ask a person. But,
you know, what is? So, yeah, don’t walk out on me, or, if you
do, try to walk out quietly.”  No one walked out of the  Alice Griffin Jewel Box Theatre  at
a recent preview, but the eccentric, mournful monologue isn’t
for anyone expecting traditional narrative. It’s packed with
non-sequiturs, musings and malapropisms (love is a “many-
splintered thing. Is that Shakespeare?”). Imagine the comedian
Steven Wright as a Samuel Beckett interpreter, with no jokes but
much dry wit. Gradually a theme of loss emerges.  As Man tells it, he’s a traveler from an undisclosed home,
“where the hat’s hanging and the placenta’s buried.” A long-
term relationship is over. His parents are gone.  “They were good people, them, but they’re dead to me now,
both having died.”  Hairpin Turns  Vibrant and controlled, with his hands in constant motion,
Lovett makes hairpin turns from light to dark.  He meditates on everything from childbirth and etymology to
learning to read and the sensations of smell and love. He
describes the moments when his parents died. He recalls a blonde
woman named Lisa who thinks of him as distant and breaks up with
him.  “‘You look like you just got born,’” he recalls her
saying. “‘Most people get over that.’”  Eno was a  Pulitzer Prize  finalist for 2005’s “Thom Pain
(based on nothing.)” This one, directed by the performer’s
wife, Judy Hegarty Lovett, was a jarring 70 minutes of
whimsical, disjointed dourness, occasionally hitting close to
home.  Through June 17 at 480 W. 42nd St. Information: +1-212-244-
7529;  http://www.signaturetheatre.org . Rating: **  (Philip Boroff is a writer for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine and
 Manuela Hoelterhoff  on culture.  To contact the writer of this column:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 