-- Catholic Church Attacks Birth-Control Mandate in Court
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-05-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/catholic-church-attacks-birth-control-mandate-in-court.html
The Catholic Church and related
universities, charities and health-care groups sued the Obama
administration in a bid to overturn a requirement that their
health plans cover birth control.  Forty-three Catholic organizations, including the
archdioceses of Washington and  New York , the University of Notre
Dame and Catholic University of America, filed 12 suits
yesterday in courts around the country, saying the mandate
violates religious freedom and free-speech rights. They asked
federal judges to bar the mandate’s application to religious
institutions or overturn it altogether.  “The cases are an important effort to vindicate what I
think is a foundational freedom for Americans: religious
liberty,” said  Richard W. Garnett , professor of law and
associate dean at Notre Dame Law School, who isn’t involved in
the cases. “It’s important that people understand it isn’t
about a plot to prevent people from getting access to
contraception. There are all kinds of ways the government can
find to provide contraception to women who couldn’t qualify for
Medicaid.”  The mandate is part of the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act, which President  Barack Obama  signed into
law in 2010. Obama in February offered a compromise that would
force health insurers, not religious-affiliated charities, to
pay for contraceptives for employees of the institutions.
Republican lawmakers vowed to push repeal of the policy.  Law Firm  The law firm Jones Day filed all of the cases, saying in a
statement that the rule “requires religious organizations to
provide, pay for, and/or facilitate insurance coverage for
services that violate their religious beliefs.”  A provision authorizing the federal government to determine
which organizations are sufficiently “religious” to warrant an
exemption from the requirement is unconstitutional, Jones Day
said in the statement.  The institutions don’t qualify for exemptions, Chieko
Noguchi, a spokeswoman for the Archdiocese of  Washington , said
in an interview.  “The argument is over how the Health and Human Services
Department defines religious ministry,” Noguchi said. “The
definition is so narrow that our schools, our health care and
social services entities wouldn’t qualify.”  Erin Shields, a spokeswoman for HHS, said the department
can’t comment on pending litigation.  Suits Across Country  The lawsuits were filed in Washington, New York,
 Pennsylvania ,  Texas , Mississippi, Ohio, Indiana,  Illinois  and
 Missouri .  Priests for Life, an anti-abortion clergy group, and seven
states sued the U.S. in February seeking to overturn the
mandate.  The Becket Fund for Religious Liberty, a nonprofit
organization based in Washington that defends freedom of
religion, filed similar cases on behalf of Belmont Abbey
College, a liberal arts college founded by Benedictine monks in
 North Carolina ; Colorado Christian University, an evangelical
college located outside of Denver; the Catholic news
organization Eternal Word Television Network, based in Irondale,
Alabama; and Ave Maria University, based in Naples, Florida.  The Washington case is Roman Catholic Archbishop of
Washington v. Sebelius, 12-cv-00815, U.S. District Court,
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington
at   sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 