-- Champions League Sponsor MasterCard May Discuss Earlier Start
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-05-21T09:44:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/champions-league-sponsor-mastercard-may-discuss-earlier-start.html
MasterCard Inc. (MA) , which has sponsored
soccer’s  Champions League  for all but two of the competition’s
20-year history, would prefer an earlier kickoff time for the 
final to maximize the game’s global viewership.  London-based Chelsea won the tournament for the first time
two days ago when it beat four-time champion Bayern Munich 4-3
on penalty kicks in the German team’s own Allianz Arena after
the teams were tied 1-1 after extra time.  European soccer’s governing body UEFA says 150 million
viewers globally tune in to the final, which this year started
at 8:45 p.m. in Germany. It’s the most-watched annual sporting
event, ahead of the National Football League’s Super Bowl.  Hany Fam, president of Purchase, New York-based
MasterCard’s strategic partnerships division for  Europe , said
he’ll speak to  UEFA  about the possibility of an earlier kickoff
to meet demand in Asia, a region where the competition is
followed by millions.  “We are always working with each other to maximize the
benefit and to maximize the impact of this program,” Fam said
in a May 18 interview in Munich ahead of the publication of a
sponsored study into fan behavior. “So really there’s very
little that’s off the table in terms of how we engage and what
we engage around.”  Asked if this could specifically mean an earlier start to
European club soccer’s championship match, which two years ago
moved from Wednesday to Saturday, Fam said, “Maybe.”  Top Teams  The Champions League features teams including  Manchester
United , Barcelona, Real Madrid and AC Milan and also attracts
international companies as sponsors. MasterCard is joined by
automaker  Ford Motor Co. (F) , Japanese consumer electronics brand
 Sony Corp. (6758) , Uni Credit SpA and Dutch brewer Heineken NV.  Sponsors seeking an earlier kickoff are likely to be
disappointed, said  David Taylor , chief executive of UEFA Events
SA. Taylor took over the post after working as general secretary
in 2009 when UEFA spun off its commercial arm because of the
growth in the business.  “I don’t think we would be organizing European football
specifically for an Asian audience,” Taylor said in an
interview. “It’s European football first and foremost.”  Fam said die-hard supporters in Asia set their alarms for
the middle of the night to watch the biggest European soccer
games. Taylor said the Champions League final would have to be
switched to a lunchtime start to maximize Asian viewership.  “That’s not our main objective,” Taylor said.  Regardless of when the final begins, MasterCard will keep
renewing its relationship with UEFA, which currently runs
through 2015, Fam said.  About 10 years ago, the credit card company lost its
sponsorship of soccer’s  World Cup  following competition with
 Visa Inc. (V)  that ended with world governing body FIFA paying
millions of dollars to MasterCard. Fam said the Champions League
is the best soccer property for MasterCard, which will also
sponsor European Championship matches in Poland next month.  “This is a nine-month event, not two weeks or three weeks
like other sporting events,” Fam said. “It’s a nine-month
opportunity and that’s fantastic for any sponsor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Munich via the London newsroom at
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  