-- Chesapeake Director’s Firm Paid $343 Million Amid Ties
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2012-05-21T20:15:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/chesapeake-director-s-firm-paid-343-million-amid-ties.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) ’s decision to
cut directors’ pay and other perks may save the company up to
$1.65 million a year without addressing investors’ concern that
the board failed to rein in Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon ’s borrowing and spending spree.  The board’s history of close ties to McClendon, of being
paid more than directors at similarly sized energy companies and
of rewarding the CEO even as Chesapeake plunged in value may
hinder its ability to oversee a turnaround of the company.  The company’s flip flop on how much it knew about a program
it approved that allowed McClendon to acquire a 2.5 percent
share in each of the company’s wells -- and amass more than $846
million in debt from companies and banks also doing business
with Chesapeake -- has sparked demands from some investors for
new directors.  “They had an obligation to make themselves fully aware, to
review and disclose these transactions,” said  Michael Garland ,
executive director of governance for the New York City
Comptroller, who controls pension funds that own 1.9 million
Chesapeake shares and has proposed  shareholders  replace two of
the board’s outside directors at the annual meeting next month.
“The board has repeatedly failed to exercise independent
oversight,” Garland said. Now, “They’re circling the wagons.”  Employing Relatives  Chesapeake has business ties to some of its eight outside
directors, who’ve received benefits aside from their
compensation, according to a Bloomberg review of past
disclosures. Those benefits include hiring a director’s
relatives, donating millions of dollars to the university
overseen by a board member, and doing business with a company
headed by its lead director.  National Oilwell Varco Inc. (NOV) , a drilling equipment maker
headed by lead director Merrill A. “Pete” Miller, has been
paid more than $343 million by Chesapeake since 2009, according
to a Chesapeake filing with the U.S. Securities & Exchange
Commission.  The son and daughter-in-law of  Frank Keating , a former
 Oklahoma  governor and a Chesapeake director since 2003, worked
for Chesapeake in real estate and land acquisition roles. Chip
Keating was paid $251,515 in 2009 for working in real estate
development for the company, according to a company filing.  Chesapeake has given more than $10 million in funding to
the Oklahoma State University system, and board member Burns Hargis has been president of its flagship campus since 2008. The
company has helped fund a new business school, a natural-gas
training center, an endowed faculty chair, student scholarships
and tickets for sporting events, according to filings and
university publications.  Director Loan  Chesapeake also did business with  BOK Financial Corp. (BOKF) ,
where Hargis served as vice chairman and is now a director.  BOK is controlled by Tulsa billionaire  George Kaiser . In
May 2009, Kaiser filed a notice in Oklahoma County that he had
lent money to McClendon and his wife. The loan was secured by
their interests in two companies, including the entity that
holds most of McClendon’s well interests, the filing shows. It
doesn’t show the amount of the debt.  Frederick Whittemore, a director of the company from 1993
to 2011, loaned money to McClendon against his personal
interests in the Chesapeake wells in 1998, according to an
Oklahoma County filing.  Trusts benefiting siblings of another previous board
member, Breene Kerr, were paid $6.39 million by Chesapeake in
2007 for oil and gas royalty interests on more than 5,750 net
mineral acres. Kerr could not be reached for comment.  Question of Independence  While none of these relationships are illegal or exceed the
rules set by the  New York  Stock Exchange, they raise doubts
about the board’s independence, said  Charles Elson , director of
the John L. Weinberg Center for  Corporate Governance  at the
 University of Delaware  in  Newark .  “The modern trend is to avoid such questions,” Elson
said. “Directors shouldn’t be in a position where they have to
be asked” about their objectivity.  Chesapeake remains confident of the board’s independence,
said Michael Kehs, a company spokesman. Chesapeake is handling
all requests for comment from directors, Kehs has said.  “Each of Chesapeake’s directors has built a superb
reputation based on impeccable credentials, independent judgment
and unwavering integrity. We take great pride in our board.”  Above-Average Pay  Even after cutting their own pay by 20 percent, directors
will continue to be steeply paid. The company’s new plan,
announced Friday, rewards directors 34 percent more than the
average $260,752 in compensation received last year by board
members at 15 other exploration and production companies on the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, according to Bloomberg
calculations.  Only three of the 16 companies,  Apache Corp. (APA) ,  Anadarko
Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and  EOG Resources Inc. (EOG) , paid more to their board
members in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chesapeake directors now will receive $100,000 in cash and
$250,000 in stock, and will no longer be allowed 40 hours of
personal jet travel at company expense. The reported cost of
non-cash or stock compensation to directors, including the jet
travel, was $1.09 million in 2011, according to a company
filing.  “A little pay cut and cutting their use of the jets, it’s
a band-aid over a gaping chest wound,”  Graef Crystal , a
compensation expert and Bloomberg News consultant based in  Las
Vegas , said in an interview. “It doesn’t go to the heart of the
problem.”  Generally Not Fully  The company initially defended McClendon’s practice of
using his stakes in Chesapeake wells as loan collateral, stating
April 18 that directors were “fully aware of the existence of
McClendon’s financing transactions.” In an April 26 statement,
directors’ backtracked, saying they were only “generally
aware” of the loans but didn’t review or approve any individual
transactions.  Concerns about the board’s oversight of the company and
what directors knew about McClendon’s personal loans have led
investors including Southeastern Asset Management Inc. and the
California Public Employees Retirement System to call for
reforms.  McClendon owed $846 million as of Dec. 31 on loans he
accumulated to fund the cost of drilling, a requirement of the
so-called Founders’ Well Participation Program. He took loans
from firms that had business dealings with Chesapeake, including
Wachovia Corp., prompting questions from shareholders and
analysts over whether the deals constituted a conflict of
interest.  Federal Investigations  The Securities & Exchange Commission and the  Internal
Revenue Service  are investigating the program, which has been
halted by the board. Directors last month said they will strip
McClendon of his chairmanship as soon as they find an outsider
to replace him in the role.  Chesapeake’s board, besides Miller, Keating, Hargis and
McClendon, includes Louis A. Simpson, chairman of SQ Advisors
LLC, Richard K. Davidson, former chairman of Union Pacific
Corp., Charles T. Maxwell, chairman of American DG Energy Inc.,
Kathleen M. Eisbrenner, deputy chairman of Flex LNG Ltd., and
Donald L. Nickles, former U.S. Senator from Oklahoma.  Chesapeake cut McClendon’s pay 15 percent last year to
$17.86 million in response to shareholders’ concerns that he was
paid too much. The company’s  stock  has fallen 45 percent since
the beginning of 2011. Chesapeake rose 3.8 percent to $14.91 at
the close of trading in New York.  ‘Egregiously Weak’  McClendon’s reduced pay package included $13.6 million in
stock awards, a $1.95 million bonus and $975,000 in salary, the
Oklahoma City-based company said in an April 20 filing.  Excluding McClendon, directors in 2011 earned an average of
$533,163, according to Bloomberg calculations, more than twice
the $288,958 annual average of directors at  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,
which is 40 times larger than Chesapeake in size.  Institutional Shareholder Services and Egan-Jones Proxy
Services, which advise investors on governance and proxy votes,
urged shareholders today to vote against Hargis and Davidson,
the two outside directors up for re-election at the company’s
June 8 annual meeting. Chesapeake needs “board-level change,”
ISS said in a statement released today to clients.  Citing “egregiously weak board oversight,” Egan-Jones
also advised investors to vote against Chesapeake’s executive
pay plan because it is not tied sufficiently to performance.  The board’s compensation and business ties to Chesapeake
may make it impossible for shareholders to trust that they can
lead the company in a new direction, said Garland, of the New
York City Comptroller’s office.  “Whether they were fully aware, or generally aware, at the
end of the day it doesn’t really matter,” Garland said. “The
only ties between a director and a company ought to be a
directorship. When you have conflicts, it can compromise their
independence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  