-- China Barrier Eases, Sweden Dodges, Mexico Probe: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-05-21T13:13:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/china-barrier-eases-sweden-dodges-mexico-probed-compliance.html
China ’s securities regulator plans to
lower entry barriers for overseas funds, encouraging investment
in domestic securities as it seeks to broaden and deepen the
country’s capital markets.  China will speed up approval of so-called qualified foreign
institutional investors and broaden the types of companies that
are allowed to invest, according to a People’s Daily article
that the  China Securities Regulatory Commission   posted  on its
website May 18. It may also grant quotas for pension funds from
 Hong Kong , Taiwan and Singapore under a system outside the QFII
program, depending on demand, the regulator said, confirming a
report in the Wall Street Journal.  CSRC Chairman  Guo Shuqing  said in February that the country
needs to develop capital markets faster as it seeks to overhaul
its economy. Authorities more than doubled quotas for QFIIs last
month to $80 billion from $30 billion. The regulator has
approved 167 institutions under the program.  Introducing more long-term funds from abroad “will help
improve domestic investors’ confidence” and further open up the
capital markets, the regulator said in the article from the
official Communist Party newspaper. The foreign institutions
“will help form a rational investment culture” for Chinese
markets as they mainly invest in blue-chips and seek long-term
returns, it said.  Institutions controlled by a single entity will be allowed
to apply for separate QFII quotas, and limits on asset
allocation will also be relaxed, the regulator said.  Compliance Policy  CFTC Proposes Easing Aggregation Rules, Makes Final Rule on Data  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission approved a
notice of proposed rulemaking that would modify the agency’s
aggregation  provisions for limits on speculative positions.  The proposed rulemaking was announced by the CFTC in a
statement May 18.  Separately, the agency approved a final rule on swap data
recordkeeping and reporting requirements for counterparties to
swaps executed before the Dodd-Frank Act became law, according
to an announcement by the commission online.  The goal of the final rule is to specify what records must
be kept and what data must be reported. In addition, the
recordkeeping will ensure historical swap data will be available
to regulators.  Compliance Action  Google Given a ‘Matter of Weeks’ to Submit Remedies in EU Probe  Google Inc. (GOOG)  must submit remedies within weeks to assuage
European Union regulators’ antitrust concerns to avoid a formal
complaint and possible fines, EU Competition Commissioner
 Joaquin Almunia  said.  Almunia asked the company to send him proposals within “a
matter of weeks” to eliminate concerns that Google promotes its
own specialist “vertical” search services, that it copies
rival content including travel and restaurant reviews and that
its contracts with software developers prevent ads from being
moved to different services.  Google, based in Mountain View, California, is under
growing pressure from global regulators probing whether the
company is thwarting competition in the market for Web searches.
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission and antitrust agencies in
Argentina and  South Korea  are also scrutinizing the company.  Google disagrees with the commission’s conclusions and is
“happy to discuss any concerns they might have,” Al Verney, a
Brussels-based spokesman for the company, said in an e-mailed
statement.  SEC Will Review Facebook Trade Reporting Problems at Nasdaq  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said it will
review problems  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  said it had reporting
trades in  Facebook Inc. (FB)  during its first day as a publicly
traded company.  “As is our practice, staff will review the incident with
Nasdaq to determine its cause and steps that will be taken to
address it,”  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement May 18.  The pricing of the first transaction following May 17’s $16
billion stock sale took a half hour longer than Nasdaq’s
forecast. About 40 minutes later, the second-largest U.S.
equities exchange operator said it was investigating an issue in
reporting trades from the opening auction back to the brokerages
that made them. Nasdaq later said it delivered the messages.  The SEC routinely reviews reports of trading disruptions.  Rob Madden, a spokesman for Nasdaq OMX, didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment.  For more, click here.  Sweden FSA Dodges Rules to Foster Corporate Debt Market  Sweden’s financial watchdog is dodging its own rules in an
effort to nurture a burgeoning corporate bond market spawned by
tighter bank credit standards.  The  Financial Supervisory Authority  is letting corporate
debt traders keep daily bond and pricing data to themselves,
even though they’re required to follow the same transparency
rules that apply to sovereign and mortgage debt. The FSA says
the compromise is borne of necessity as regulators work out how
to support a nascent market.  As Swedish companies try to fill the gap created by tighter
 bank  credit amid stricter capital rules, they’re struggling to
persuade bond investors their market meets international
standards. Corporate bond issuance in the largest Nordic economy
has risen 2 percent this year to 26.3 billion kronor ($3.7
billion). Yet the market still lags behind neighboring Norway,
where 45 billion kroner ($7.5 billion) in corporate and
financial debt was sold in the period, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The FSA said it’s looking over other measures that would
improve corporate bond transparency and expects to have a new
model next year, Anna Jegnell, executive director of markets at
the Stockholm-based FSA, said in an interview.  For more, click here.  CME Expands Grain-Trading Hours May 20 to Match ICE Markets  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest futures exchange,
anticipated expanding grain-trading hours beginning May 20 after
U.S. regulators approved a plan intended to thwart new
competition from  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)   Trading on the CME’s Chicago Board of Trade was set to
increase to 21 hours a day starting at 5 p.m. yesterday, up from
17 hours, after the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
approved the plan, the Chicago-based exchange said May 18 in a
 statement  on its website.  Hours will be expanded for corn, mini-sized corn, soybeans,
mini-sized soybeans, wheat, mini-sized wheat, soybean meal,
soybean oil, rough rice, oats and ethanol futures and options
and related calendar-spread options and inter-commodity spread
options, the CME said.  The  National Grain & Feed Association  and the  North
American Export Grain Association , the two largest U.S. grain-
handling organizations, said May 17 they ended their opposition
to the change because it allows for the trading day to end at 2
p.m., giving companies enough time to tally up the day’s trading
before a new period starts.  The delay in matching the expanded hours at ICE reflected
the extra pressure on the dominant CME markets to make sure that
the changes would be acceptable to key market participants,
according to Bart Chilton, one of five CFTC commissioners.  For more, click here, and click here.  Mexican Regulator Probing Bond Trades for Volume Manipulation  Mexico is investigating whether banks and brokerages
manipulated trading volumes in the government debt market, the
head of the nation’s securities regulator said.  Officials are looking into the possibility that about four
institutions and eight people tried to elevate volumes to boost
their status as market makers, Guillermo Babatz, president of
the  National Banking and Securities Commission , said in an
interview in Acapulco, Mexico.  The suspected violations occurred in 2009 and 2010 and have
formed part of an investigation that’s gone on for more than two
years, according to Babatz, who declined to identify the people
or institutions.  The commission plans to make a decision on possible
sanctions by July, he said.  Courts/Tribunals  MF Global $1 Billion Vanished Into Brokerage, Court Is Told  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  still can’t trace where some of the
money went when its brokerage collapsed, including $1 billion
that “vanished” into the brokerage unit MF Global Inc., an
attorney told a bankruptcy court.  Brett Miller , a lawyer for MF Global Holdings’ Chapter 11
estate, told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn in Manhattan May
18 that court papers detailing the assets and debts of five of
its six bankrupt units would likely to be filed May 18. Details
on the sixth, MF Global USA, which filed for bankruptcy in
March, will take about another week, he added.  A report is due June 4 from Chapter 11 trustee Louis Freeh
on the results of a probe into how the brokerage failed last
October.  As MF Global Holdings unwinds in bankruptcy to repay
creditors, its former operating unit, MF Global Inc., is
liquidating under the Securities Investor Protection Act to
repay customers who are estimated to be out $1.6 billion.  The holding company and brokerage each has its own trustee,
and the two have disagreed on whether certain assets belong to
customers or creditors.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Seattle Fund Manager Charged With Diverting $46 Million  Mark Spangler, former chairman of the  National Association
of Personal Financial Advisors , was indicted on charges that he
secretly diverted $46 million from investors to risky startup
companies he co-owned.  Spangler, the Seattle-based head of Spangler Group and co-
founder of Tamarac Inc. and TeraHop Networks Inc., told
investors that their funds were conservatively invested in
publicly traded companies and bonds, U.S. Attorney Jenny Durkan
in Seattle said in a  statement  on her website. A federal grand
jury May 17 indicted Spangler on 23 counts of wire fraud, money
laundering and investment adviser fraud, Durkan said.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said May 17 it
is suing Spangler. He is scheduled to appear in federal court in
Seattle tomorrow.  Spangler, 57, established funds as early as 1998, Durkan
said. He didn’t tell customers he was diverting significant
amounts of money to Tamarac and TeraHop, prosecutors said.
TeraHop, a Georgia company, is no longer in business. Tamarac,
based in Seattle, provides software to financial planners.  Spangler cooperated with the government’s investigation,
said Jon Zulauf, his attorney.  “We are disappointed that charges have been filed,”
Zulauf said in a telephone interview. The lawyer said he and his
client will fight the charges.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Spangler, 12-133, and the SEC
case is SEC v. Spangler, 12-856, U.S. District Court, Western
District of Washington (Seattle).  Ex-UBS Trader Karpe Fined $2 Million for Unauthorized Trading  The former head of a trading desk at  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s wealth-
management unit in  London  must pay 1.25 million pounds ($2
million) for unauthorized trading after he lost his challenge to
the penalty levied by the U.K. finance regulator.  Sachin Karpe is also accused by the Financial Services
Authority of moving money between client accounts to hide losses
from unauthorized foreign-exchange trades and helping Indian
billionaire Anil Ambani’s company invest more than $250 million
in an offshore trust in violation of Indian law. The FSA fine
against him was upheld by a London tribunal today.  Karpe, who was fired from his post overseeing accounts for
Indian clients on the bank’s Asia-2 desk, only challenged the
fine by the regulator, not a lifetime ban from working in
Britain’s financial-services industry. Karpe, who wasn’t at the
hearing, submitted evidence that the levy would cause financial
hardship.  At the hearing, Karpe’s lawyer argued he didn’t circumvent
any rules because the UBS unit had no controls in place to
prevent unauthorized trading in client accounts.  For more, click here.  Interviews  Too Much Regulation Caused JP Morgan $2B Loss, Whalen Says  Last week  JP Morgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  acknowledged a trading loss
of at least $2 billion, fueling calls by some observers for more
regulation of financial institutions. Chris Whalen, a Senior
Managing Director at Tangent Capital Partner, told Bloomberg
Law’s Lee Pacchia that it was actually too much regulation that
led to the loss.  Jeff Madrick, a Senior Fellow at the  Roosevelt Institute ,
maintained instead that regulators need to clamp down on
financial institutions if the dangers of such losses are to be
minimized.  For more, click here.  Banks Should Be Allowed to Fail, Sorrentino Says  Frank Sorrentino, chairman and chief executive officer of
North Jersey Community Bank, talked about JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
$2 billion trading loss and regulation of the financial
industry.  He spoke with Mark Crumpton on Bloomberg Television’s
“Bottom Line.”  For the video, click here.  Belka Says Western European Banks Need to Deleverage  Polish Central Bank Governor Marek Belka gave a keynote
speech about the risks facing Europe’s banking system.  He spoke at the European Bank of Reconstruction and
Development’s annual conference in London.  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Osborne’s Scope to Reshape Bank of England Widens on Posen Exit  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne’s scope to
reshape the  Bank of England  just got wider as the departure of
policy maker  Adam Posen  lengthens the list of key staff to
appoint as he also redesigns the institution.  Posen, 45, will leave the central bank at the end of August
before becoming president of the Washington-based Peterson
Institute, according to a statement released May 18 in London.
That will further pile up Osborne’s Bank of England inbox as he
drives through legislation to revamp its role and considers how
to fill multiple vacancies in its leadership.  Posen’s exit will remove one of the most vocal policy
makers at the Bank of England, whose pronouncements often
presaged shifts in officials’ stance. With decisions also due on
the successor to Governor Mervyn King and Deputy Governor
Charles Bean, Osborne’s personnel choices may have as important
a legacy on the central bank as his plans to return financial
regulation to the institution.  The government has been counting on the central bank to
adopt loose monetary policy as it pursues the biggest fiscal
squeeze since World War II.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 