-- China Top Source of Counterfeit U.S. Military Electronics
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-05-22T09:27:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/china-top-source-of-counterfeit-u-s-military-electronics.html
China’s government has failed to curb
manufacturing of counterfeit military electronic parts by
Chinese companies that are the “dominant source” of fakes in
the U.S. defense supply chain, a Senate investigation found.  The U.S.  Air Force  suspended in January a Shenzhen, China-
based company from supplying parts to U.S. contractors after it
sold about 84,000 suspect components, many of them installed on
U.S. aircraft, according to an example cited in the U.S. Senate
Armed Services Committee report released yesterday.  The panel’s report outlines the results of a 14-month
investigation disclosing dozens of examples of suspected
counterfeit electronic parts. Saying U.S. companies and the
military services didn’t crack down on abuses, the committee
said the defense industry “routinely failed to report cases of
suspect counterfeit parts, putting the integrity of the supply
chain at risk.”  The report didn’t cite any examples of counterfeit parts
causing damage such as lives lost or planes that crashed.  The committee said it found “overwhelming and undeniable
evidence to support” the conclusion that  China  hasn’t taken
steps to stop operations “that are carried out openly in that
country.”  Denying Visas  “Rather than acknowledging the problem and moving
aggressively to shut down counterfeiters, the Chinese government
has tried to avoid scrutiny, including denying visas to
committee staff to travel to mainland China as part of the
investigation,” according to the report.  Asked to comment on the report, Chinese Foreign Ministry
spokesman Hong Lei said the U.S. should conduct a “thorough
investigation” into the sellers of the parts and the types of
deals involved.  “Whether the relevant accusations are reasonable is still
questionable,” Hong told reporters in Beijing today.  Phone numbers listed on websites or online advertisements
for Hong Dark Electronics Trade and two other Chinese companies
mentioned in the report were either disconnected or being used
by other firms.  The Senate committee’s investigative staff amassed a
database with 1,800 cases of counterfeiting involving about 1
million parts. It scrutinized 100 cases and found that 70
percent of the suspect parts were traced to Chinese companies.
The U.K. and  Canada  followed China, based on the resale by
companies in those countries of parts from China, according to
the report.  Gone Unreported  The “vast majority of the 1,800 cases appear to have gone
unreported to the Defense Department or criminal authorities,”
the report found.  Suspect parts went into equipment ranging from thermal
night-vision sights for Army weapons to computers installed on
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  missile interceptors and transport
aircraft as well as those made by  L-3 Communications Holdings
Inc. (LLL)  and  Boeing Co. (BA) , according to the panel’s report.  Questionable parts also made it into special forces
helicopters,  Raytheon Co. (RTN) ’s GPS-guided Excalibur artillery shell
and  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) ’s Army Stryker Mobile Gun, according
to the report.  The committee disclosed at a November hearing that it found
counterfeit parts on at least seven aircraft, including the
C-130J transport plane from Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed
Martin and the P-8A Poseidon maritime patrol from Chicago-based
Boeing.  Suspect Display Parts  Two new Air Force C-27J Spartans from New York-based L-3
deployed to  Afghanistan  had displays with suspect parts,
according to the panel.  The committee traced memory chips in the L-3 to the company
in Shenzhen, which also delivered an earlier counterfeit part
L-3 discovered in October 2009, the panel said.  The Air Force on January 13 suspended the company, Hong
Dark Electronic Trade Co., from Pentagon contracting, according
to a memo from the service.  “Hong Dark has supplied suspect counterfeit parts” to a
middleman who then sold the parts to L-3 Communications, Boeing,
Lockheed Martin, and Raytheon, among others, Air Force Deputy
General Counsel Steven Shaw said in the memo.  Many of the 84,000 electronic parts from Hong Dark have
been installed on aircraft such the C-17 transport and
helicopters such as the AH-64 Apache and CH-46, according to
Shaw.  Lot Samples  After the November hearing, L-3 officials sent samples from
20 lots of parts purchased from the company for independent
testing, which confirmed that all except two were suspect,
according to the Senate committee.  L-3 also provided the committee an “extensive” list of
equipment beyond the C-27J aircraft that contained suspect
counterpart parts, such as the Traffic Alert and and Collision
Avoidance System for preventing mid-air collisions used on
several military programs, including the Global Hawk drone from
 Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)   The defense industry has failed to utilize an existing
database for sharing information, the Government-Industry Data
Exchange, that’s intended to ease the dissemination of warnings
on faulty parts and their manufacturers, the committee said.  Only 271 reports of suspect parts were disseminated in the
defense supply chain in 2009 and 2010, the period when the
committee identified 1,800 cases of suspect parts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  