-- China’s Wanda to Buy AMC Cinema Chain for $2.6 Billion
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-05-21T20:33:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/china-s-wanda-group-to-buy-amc-cinema-chain-for-2-6-billion.html
China ’s largest entertainment group
agreed to buy  AMC Entertainment Holdings Inc. (AMC)  for $2.6 billion
including debt, expanding into the U.S. to create the world’s
biggest cinema owner.  The deal by  Dalian Wanda Group , controlled by billionaire
real-estate developer Wang Jianlin, marks the largest-ever
buyout of a U.S. company by a Chinese firm, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Wanda, based in Dalian, northeast China,
is also looking to buy a European cinema operator, Wang said in
an interview via a translator today.  The purchase, which includes about $2 billion in assumed
debt, gives Wanda the second-largest operator in  North America ,
where moviegoers spent  $10.2 billion  on tickets last year.
Kansas City, Missouri-based AMC, controlled by private-equity
firms including  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and  Bain Capital 
LLC, will gain an additional $500 million investment from Wanda
over time, the companies said.  “The acquisition will help Wanda’s overseas expansion,”
said Ronald Wan, managing director at China Merchants Securities
in  Hong Kong . “Movie theaters aren’t politically sensitive
assets, so this deal probably won’t encounter as much regulatory
oversight as others.”  The companies declined to specify how much AMC’s owners
will receive from the transaction.  Theater Upgrades  Wanda plans to spend the $500 million to reduce debt and
improve AMC’s theaters, Gerardo Lopez, chief executive officer
of the U.S. company, said in an interview. Those include
upgrades to show Imax and 3-D movies, and adding more bars and
dining options, he said.  AMC’s new owners may start shopping for smaller
acquisitions in the U.S., putting the company in competition
with  Regal Entertainment Group (RGC)  and  Cinemark Holdings Inc. (CNK) , U.S.
chains that have said they are interested in buying smaller
companies, said Eric Wold, a San Francisco-based analyst for B.
Riley & Co.  The deal may also strengthen the new company’s hand in
negotiating with Mississauga, Ontario-based Imax, Wold said.  The companies don’t expect significant U.S. regulatory
obstacles to approving the transaction, Lopez said. They plan to
make a voluntary filing with the U.S. Committee on Foreign
Investment, a Treasury-led group of government agencies that
weighs the national security aspects of takeovers, he said.  Imax, RealD  It’s too early to talk about whether Wanda will combine the
U.S. and European cinema businesses or list them, the company
said in an e-mail after the interview with Wang.  Imax Corp. (IMAX) , the maker of big-screen viewing systems, rose
2.5 percent to $21.46 at the close in  New York  and has gained 17
percent this year.  RealD Inc. (RLD) , the biggest supplier of 3-D
projection equipment, gained 2.4 percent to $11.23 and has
increased 41 percent this year.  The $2.6 billion acquisition surpasses Lenovo Group Ltd.’s
$1.8 billion takeover of International Business Machines Corp.’s
personal-computer business in 2005, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Alibaba, Yahoo  Separately, Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., China’s largest e-
commerce provider, agreed to buy a stake of about 20 percent in
itself from U.S. Web portal  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  for about $7.1 billion,
the companies said today. Yahoo acquired about a 40 percent
stake in Alibaba in 2005 in exchange for $1 billion and
ownership of the U.S. company’s Chinese operations.  Yahoo intends to return “substantially all” of the cash
proceeds, after taxes, to shareholders, the Sunnyvale,
California-based company said.  Wanda is one of China’s largest real-estate companies, with
interests in luxury hotels and department stores. It is China’s
largest cinema operator, with 86 locations, according to its
website.  Adding AMC’s 346 locations, mostly in the U.S., would make
Wanda the largest operator by revenue, surpassing Knoxville,
Tennessee-based Regal, which had $2.7 billion of sales in the
year ended Dec. 29, 2011, according to regulatory filings. AMC
had about $2.5 billion in the year ended March 31, 2011,
regulatory filings show.  Chinese Moviegoers  Chinese box-office sales increased 35 percent to $2 billion
last year, according to the Motion Picture Association of
America, making the nation the third-biggest market after the
U.S. and Japan. In the first quarter, China surpassed Japan on a
trailing 12-month basis and is now the second-largest market,
Lopez said, citing MPAA data.  Apollo and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s buyout unit agreed to buy
AMC in 2004 for about $2 billion including debt. They agreed a
year later to merge the business with Loews Cineplex
Entertainment Corp., owned by Bain Capital,  Carlyle Group LP (CG) ,
and Spectrum Equity Investors, leaving the combined company
owned jointly by the five firms.  AMC withdrew plans for an initial public offering in 2008,
and filed a second time, in July 2010, seeking to raise as much
as $450 million.  AMC has been in intermittent discussions with Wanda since
shortly after the 2010 IPO filing, Lopez said. The U.S. company
also held discussions with other buyers, including private-
equity firms.  U.S.-China Ties  Film-industry ties between the U.S. and China have
strengthened this year, after China agreed to provide greater
access to U.S. studios, and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ,  DreamWorks
Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) , and  News Corp. (NWSA)  formed co-production
partnerships that will include some of their biggest movies.  Disney, the world’s largest entertainment company, in April
agreed to develop animation content with  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ,
China’s biggest Internet company. The Burbank, California-based
company will co-produce “Iron Man 3” from its Marvel unit with
Beijing-based DMG Entertainment.  DreamWorks Animation, based in Glendale, California, and
run by CEO Jeffrey Katzenberg, said in February it will form
Oriental DreamWorks, a Shanghai-based joint venture to develop
entertainment projects in China that will include theme parks
and live productions. Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp., owner of 20th
Century Fox, this month bought a stake in Beijing-based  Bona
Film Group Ltd. (BONA) , a movie producer and distributor.  Ernst & Young LLP is providing financial advice to Wanda on
the transaction, and AMC is using  Citigroup Inc. (C)  Davis Polk &
Wardwell LLP and Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP served as legal
advisers for Wanda and AMC, respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  