-- Chinese Iron Ore Buyers Defer Imports Cargoes, Mirae Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-21T09:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/chinese-iron-ore-buyers-defer-imports-cargoes-mirae-says.html
Iron ore  and coking coal buyers in
China are seeking to defer importing cargoes as domestic  steel
mills  reduced output amid lower prices, according to Mirae Asset
Securities Co.  “Moderately improving demand can’t keep up with the surge
in steel capacity, leading to falling prices and forcing
steelmakers to cut output,” analyst Henry Liu said by phone
today from  Hong Kong . “We started to hear of such deferrals in
the past month.”  China’s crude-steel  output  soared to a record 61.58 million
metric tons in March and declined 1.6 percent to 60.57 million
tons last month. Steel  prices  fell for a fifth-straight week to
4,227 a ton on May 18, according to researcher Beijing Antaike
Information Development Co., as April industrial production, new
 yuan  loans and trade figures all missed economists’ estimates.  “We learned from major trading firms that the execution of
long-term contracts are stable, while spot market deals have
been declining in recent years,” Jim Lin, a Beijing-based
analyst at Wood Mackenzie Ltd., said by phone. “We can’t say at
this point that such deferrals will become the market trend.”  Iron ore  with 62 percent iron content delivered to the
Chinese port of Tianjin fell to $131.30 a ton on May 18, the
lowest since Dec. 19, according to a  price index  compiled by The
Steel Index Ltd. Iron ore is measured in dry tons, or metric
tons less moisture. Tianjin port moisture can account for 8
percent to 10 percent of the ore’s weight.  Thermal Coal  Thermal-coal buyers in  China  are also negotiating to defer
imports amid a surge in stockpiles, according to three
Indonesian sellers of the fuel.  Traders are asking to delay shipments of Indonesian power-
station coal for as many as two weeks as stockpiles in China’s
main ports are sufficient, said two of the people who declined
to be identified because the information is confidential. One
buyer asked to reschedule a 50,000-ton cargo for June delivery,
according to one of the people.  The Financial Times reported today that buyers of iron ore
and thermal coal are asking traders to delay shipments with some
defaulting on their contracts, citing unidentified traders.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jarrett Banks at 
 jbanks15@bloomberg.net  