-- China Money Rate Trades Near 1-Year Low on Rate-Cut Speculation
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-21T09:14:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/china-money-rate-trades-near-1-year-low-on-rate-cut-expectation.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
traded near the lowest level in 12 months on speculation the
central bank will lower  interest rates  to support economic
growth.  Morgan Stanley economists led by Helen Qiao said the
central bank may cut both lending and deposit rates twice this
year, each time by 25 basis points, according to a research note
released today. Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in Wuhan that the
government will focus more on bolstering economic growth, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported on May 20.  “The central bank may lower interest rates once this year,
and the likelihood of a lending-rate cut is bigger than that for
deposit rates,” said Liu Junyu, a bond analyst at China
Merchants Bank Co., the nation’s sixth-biggest lender. “The
seven-day repo may trade in a range between 2.5 percent and 3
percent before the middle of June.”  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, declined two basis point, or 0.02
percentage point, to 2.67 percent as of 4:30 p.m. in  Shanghai ,
according to a weighted average compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center. It touched 2.45 percent on May 17, the
lowest since May 2011.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, rose eight basis
points to 2.75 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Morgan Stanley cut its estimate for China’s growth in 2012
to 8.5 percent, from 9 percent, according to the research note.
The central bank lowered reserve-requirement ratios for banks on
May 12, the third reduction since November, after data showed
exports and industrial production slowed in April.  The yield on the 3.41 percent government bonds due March
2019 rose one basis point to 3.20 percent.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Sandy Hendry, Simon Harvey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 