-- Chipotle May Incur Fines After SEC Probe, Anderson Says
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-05-21T20:20:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/chipotle-may-incur-fines-after-sec-probe-anderson-says.html
Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG)  may incur
legal fees or fines related to a U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission probe regarding work authorizations, said  Stephen Anderson , an analyst at Miller Tabak & Co.  “There could be a fine of some sort” and “legal fees,”
Anderson, who is based in New York, said today in an interview.
“I seriously thought this was something they put behind them.”  Chipotle last week received a subpoena “requesting that we
provide information regarding our compliance with employee work
authorization requirements, our related public statements and
other disclosures, and related information,” the Denver-based
company said in a May 18 SEC filing.  The SEC hasn’t informed Chipotle as to the focus of its
investigation, Chris Arnold, a company spokesman, said in an e-
mail.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment.  Chipotle  rose  0.3 percent to $393.33 at the close in  New
York . The shares have gained 16 percent this year.  While the immigration investigation began in  Minnesota  in
2010, it has since spread to stores in Virginia and  Washington ,
D.C. Last year, Chipotle said it was working with the U.S.
Attorney’s office in Washington, in addition to U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement, to provide certain documents as part of
a review.  The 1,260-store burrito chain fired about 450 Minnesota
workers who couldn’t confirm the validity of their work
documents. The firings affected store operations and resulted in
a temporary increase in labor costs to train new workers,
Chipotle said in a filing.  Labor Expenses  The additional labor expenses hurt 2011 profit by about 8
cents a share, Anderson said.  Chipotle, which provides language programs to help its
restaurant workers learn English, has tried to promote store
leaders from within its ranks. Almost 90 percent of salaried
management and more than 95 percent of hourly managers come from
internal promotions, according to a company filing.  Pei Wei Asian Diner, a restaurant chain owned by  P.F.
Chang’s China Bistro Inc. (PFCB) , was forced to temporarily close
locations last year after losing unauthorized employees
following an investigation. The closings hurt sales by about
$1.1 million, the Scottsdale, Arizona-based company said in a
filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  