-- Clemens Jury to Hear About Pettitte, Knoblauch HGH Claims
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-05-21T21:51:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/clemens-jury-to-hear-about-pettitte-knoblauch-hgh-claims.html
Brian McNamee , the government’s only
eyewitness to  Roger Clemens ’s alleged use of performance
enhancing drugs, was permitted to name other former New York
Yankees who allegedly used human growth hormone.  McNamee, testifying for a sixth day in the star pitcher’s
perjury trial, told jurors that he provided human growth
hormone, or HGH, to  Andy Pettitte  and Chuck Knoblauch. He also
said he helped  Mike Stanton  obtain the drug.  A needle used by Knoblauch was in the Miller Lite beer can
McNamee gave to investigators that also allegedly contained
medical waste from Clemens, he said today in  Washington .  U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton , who earlier ruled out
such testimony as too prejudicial to Clemens, changed his mind
today, accepting the government’s argument that McNamee’s cross-
examination “opened the door” to evidence showing the former
trainer’s cooperation with prosecutors involved additional
ballplayers. He told jurors that they may consider the
information when assessing McNamee’s credibility.  “You cannot infer Mr. Clemens is guilty merely because he
said other ballplayers used these substances and he provided
these substances to them,” Walton told the jury.  A December 2007 report by former U.S. Senator  George Mitchell  said performance-enhancing drugs were widespread in
 Major League Baseball . The report named almost 90 players
including former  New York Yankees  teammates Clemens, Pettitte,
Stanton and Knoblauch.  Congressional Investigation  Clemens, a seven-time Cy Young Award winner, is charged
with one count of obstructing a congressional investigation,
three counts of making false statements and two counts of
perjury stemming from his testimony to a House panel
investigating the use of steroids in baseball. He faces as long
as 21 months in prison if convicted. Clemens has denied having
used drugs.  McNamee, Clemens’s former personal trainer, has testified
that he gave the ballplayer injections of steroids and HGH
during the 1998, 2000 and 2001 baseball seasons while both men
worked for the Toronto Blue Jays and the Yankees.  The government’s case includes a needle and cotton with
Clemens’s DNA that tested positive for anabolic steroids,
prosecutors said.  That material came from McNamee, who said he saved needles,
gauze and vials from one of the injections in 2001. He told
jurors he kept some of the items in a  Miller Lite  beer can that
he took from the recycling bin in Clemens’s apartment.  Hidden Evidence  Prosecutors today sought to show jurors that McNamee didn’t
try to hide information or evidence from the government. McNamee
today said that he told  law enforcement  that there was more than
one player’s medical waste in the material he gave to them in
2008.  Last week, under questioning from Clemens’s lawyer,  Rusty Hardin , McNamee said that some of the medical waste he preserved
from an injection he gave Clemens was mixed with needles used on
other baseball players. One of the needles found in the beer can
was a smaller, diabetic-type syringe, not used for intramuscular
injections of steroids.  “Whose needle would that have been?” Assistant U.S.
Attorney Daniel Butler asked.  “Another player’s possibly,” McNamee said.  “Do you know who that player is?” Butler said.  “I believe it was  Chuck Knoblauch ’s growth hormone,” he
said.  McNamee’s Blood  Butler also asked McNamee whether investigators ever told
him that his own blood was found on any of the medical waste. He
said they hadn’t.  Once the government finished with McNamee members of the
jury were able to ask questions.  The questions, submitted in writing and approved by Walton,
included: Did McNamee use gloves when injecting Clemens? Did he
believe steroids and HGH would strengthen a player? Why did he
keep evidence after giving an injection? And had he had met with
investigators before signing “a proffer” giving him some
immunity from prosecution?  He was also asked by the jury about whether he himself had
used steroids or HGH. McNamee said he’d used steroids for a
shoulder injury and that he used growth hormone in 2004 for a
hand injury.  “For what purpose?” Walton asked.  “I cut my finger off,” McNamee said.  Beer Can’s Age  After McNamee, the government called Manny Manuele, a
manager at MillerCoors LLC in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to testify
about the age of the beer can containing medical waste.  Using the coding stamped on the bottom of the can, Manuele
said the Miller Lite can McNamee gave to federal investigators
was filled by a facility in  North Carolina  and was put on the
market in early August 2001 -- around the time McNamee said he
took it from Clemens’s recycling bin.  New York  is among the
states the North Carolina facility ships to, he said.  The government put on two additional witnesses before the
end of the day. The trial will resume in the afternoon of May
23.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 1:10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  