-- Coffee Council Says Brazil Rains May Delay Harvesting by 30 Days
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-05-21T08:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/coffee-council-says-brazil-rains-may-delay-harvesting-by-30-days.html
Rains in coffee growing areas in
 Brazil , the world’s largest producer of the commodity, are
likely to delay harvesting by as much as 30 days, according to
the country’s National Coffee Council, known as CNC.  The wetter weather will delay the picking of arabica beans
especially in  Sao Paulo  and  Minas Gerais , the country’s main
growing state, CNC said in a report e-mailed May 18. Coffee
areas will get more rainfall for the week starting on May 23,
Marco Antonio dos Santos, an agronomist at forecaster Somar
Meteorologia, said in an e-mailed report on May 16.  “The delay to pickings and the low level of carry-over
stocks are keeping coffee market fundamentals positive,” Silas Brasileiro, president of the council, said in the report.  Arabica coffee traded on ICE Futures U.S. in New York
climbed 2.6 percent over the past two weeks after falling for
four consecutive 7-day periods. The price was up 1 percent at
$1.809 a pound by 4:26 a.m. in  New York , down 41 percent from a
14-year high of $3.089 a pound in May last year. Only five
percent of this year’s crop had been harvested by May 16,
according to Somar.  Producers should be cautious about the quality of their
coffee, as rains may cause some fruit to fall from trees, CNC’s
Brasileiro said in the report, highlighting increasing demand
for beans of better taste profile.  Fine cup beans from the new season were trading at a
discount of 9 cents a pound to the price on ICE, while good cup
quality coffee was at a discount of 18 cents a pound, Santos,
Brazil-based broker JR Corretora said in a report e-mailed
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  