-- College Crackup and the Online Future
-- B y   M a r k   C .   T a y l o r
-- 2012-05-21T23:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/college-crackup-and-the-online-future.html
In the coming decade, emerging
technologies will thoroughly transform higher education.
Although distance learning and computer-assisted education have
been around since the 1960s, financial pressures are forcing
institutions to develop aggressive online programs.  When education goes online, how professors teach, what
students learn and how institutions are structured will change
significantly.  Some changes are well under way. In 2009, about 29 percent
of college students took at least one course online; by 2014,
that number is  projected  to increase to 50 percent. Much of this
growth has been driven by for-profit schools, but in the past
couple of years, traditional colleges and universities have
designed their own programs in an effort to increase tuition
income without expanding the physical plant. It remains to be
seen whether this financial bet will pay off.  The most promising initiatives involve cooperation between
and among schools.  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  and
 Harvard University  recently announced a $60 million initiative
to create edX,  described as  “a transformational partnership in
online education” that will “enhance campus-based teaching and
learning and build a global community of online learners.”
Through video and immediate feedback, students will be able to
take online versions of MIT and Harvard courses that include
exams, papers and even laboratories.  Courses Take Off  Two Stanford University computer scientists secured $16
million in  venture capital  to create a new company named
 Coursera , which will distribute online interactive courses in
the humanities, social sciences and engineering. They were
inspired by the wildly popular  Khan Academy , which offers more
than 3,100 micro-lectures on a broad range of subjects, and by
the extraordinary success of a class taught by their Stanford
colleague Sebastian Thrun that attracted  160,000 students  from
190 countries. The new venture will include Stanford, the
 University of Michigan , the  University of Pennsylvania  and
 Princeton University .  Thrun  himself cofounded the online
university Udacity.  Many people within and beyond the academy are skeptical
about distance learning and online education. The resistance of
faculty members has been the greatest obstacle to the
development of effective Web-based learning. While it is true
that seminars and small discussion classes can’t be taught
online, they can be taught effectively using teleconferencing.
Two of the most successful courses I have taught were
teleseminars with the University of Helsinki in 1992 -- with
incoming and outgoing images of the class and myself projected
onto a small television screen -- and the University of
 Melbourne  in 1996.  However effective face-to-face classes might be, the
reality is that this traditional model is simply unaffordable
for most students. In addition, more and more students are
working and don’t have time for place-based education. Only 15
percent to 18 percent of students in post-secondary education
fit the profile of  18- to 22-year-olds  residing on campus. For
the 85 percent so-called nontraditional students, it is
necessary to develop effective alternatives.  The move from the real to the virtual classroom involves
fundamental changes. Education is shifting from a mass-
production model to one based on what business calls  mass
customization . This transformation raises rarely asked
questions: Why is college duration four years? Why is every
course the same length? Why does graduation depend on the
completion of a specified number of courses or credits?  Modules, Not Classes  The format of courses in most colleges and universities has
changed relatively little over the years. Classes come in three
sizes: large (lectures), medium (discussions) and small
(seminars). All are roughly the same duration, running from 12
to 16 weeks in sessions of one to three hours at a time. Most
courses are numbered sequentially and ordered hierarchically
according to the degree of specialization and level of
difficulty. The professor controls the structure and content.  In the new model that is emerging, classes will be
delivered in modules that can be downloaded as individual
lectures or as an entire class and will be accessible in the
data cloud. Rather than a uniformly prescribed program, students
will create a diversified portfolio tailored to their interests
and needs. In contrast to the standardized format, they will be
able to take the whole course or, customizing, select parts of
different courses and combine them in various ways.  For example, a class on contemporary art might be linked to
one on current literature and another on financial markets. By
connecting and layering other courses, or parts that are
embedded in a constantly expanding and changing network, new
insights that can’t be discovered in today’s siloed curriculum
will emerge. As distribution systems change, courses will no
longer be limited to the one-to-many model, where hundreds of
students gather in university halls at a specified time to watch
a “real” professor, but will become many-to-many conversations
that allow for more interactivity.  Students will still need guidance. For this system to work,
the role of faculty members will change. They will still teach,
but they will increasingly serve as academic counselors who
advise students on designing classes and integrating programs at
different institutions.  This reconfiguration of courses gives students more freedom
and creates the possibility of decreasing the time necessary to
complete a degree, thereby lowering the cost of a college
education. Just as it isn’t reasonable for every course to be
the same length, it isn’t necessary to make every student spend
four years in college to receive a degree. The principle of
evaluation should always be the quality of knowledge acquired
rather than the quantity of courses completed.  Virtual Harvard  In two previous articles, I argued that excessive
competition and overspecialization are the plagues of higher
education. Online education can address both of these problems.
By collaborating to provide it, colleges and universities make
more efficient use of their limited resources.  Producing high-
quality online classes isn’t easy and often costs more than
investors expect. No proven financial model exists yet.  Some schools facing economic challenges see online
education as a source of revenue, but top-tier schools are
currently making their courses available free of charge. In the
future, I suspect these schools will introduce a variable cost
structure for different kinds of courses. A successful online
program will strengthen the brand and increase the demand for
the “real” Harvard, Yale or Princeton education.  When institutions cooperate in this way, the faculty
expands, and students at participating universities as well as
other colleges have a broader range of classes from which to
choose. Less-affluent schools can outsource courses and even
entire departments to qualified providers. Students can take
courses from leading teachers and scholars anywhere in the world
while receiving credit at the school in which they are enrolled.  Efficiency, however, has its cost. There are going to be
winners and losers in the new world of networked higher
education. The success of Harvard, MIT, Yale, Stanford and
Princeton online programs will prove a challenge to many
colleges and universities. Why pay a quarter of a million
dollars to go to a second-tier school when you can get a Harvard
education online for little or nothing?  This also raises the question of whether one is paying for
an education or certification when attending college. Facing
skyrocketing debt and dismal job prospects, many students and
their families may even ask whether the difference between the
virtual and the real Harvard is worth the cost.  These practical considerations shouldn’t overshadow one of
the most promising innovations that online education will bring:
The very structure of knowledge will change.  Mix and Match  Imagine a curriculum or even an educational institution
organized like a web or network rather than an assembly line.
As students mix and match courses online, pressure will increase
for professors to develop classes that integrate different
approaches and disciplines.  This, in turn, will promote research that isn’t confined to
current specialized fields and subfields, but will create new
areas of inquiry. A more-integrated approach will encourage the
development of courses that focus on issues and problems that
aren’t narrowly defined but have practical relevance and prepare
students to become responsible citizens who are capable of
pursuing productive and creative careers.  There is a widening gap between the rate at which knowledge
is expanding and the rate at which colleges and universities
change. In higher education, as in business, institutions must
become more flexible and agile. Colleges and universities that
can’t adapt will fail. Departments will either be eliminated or
redesigned in ways that support more extensive collaboration
among faculty members and students working in different areas.  These changes will meet considerable resistance, but they
are unavoidable and will have beneficial results. In all areas
of endeavor, innovation comes about by bringing together what is
usually held apart. Just as artistic creativity often occurs by
mixing different genres, so intellectual innovation frequently
results from crossing different disciplines.  With growing competition abroad and increasing financial
problems at home, the worldwide pre-eminence of U.S. higher
education isn’t assured in the 21st century. Even if it were
possible to increase funding in this era of shortsighted
austerity, it wouldn’t be enough. A fundamental transformation
in higher education will require a thorough rethinking of both
what and how we teach.  Colleges and universities will have to be reorganized and
create new strategies for cooperation and collaboration that
will enable them to provide the best education to the most
students for the lowest price. If we have the imagination and
determination to rise to this challenge, we will be able to
provide the education our children and grandchildren deserve and
the world needs.  (Mark C. Taylor is chairman of the department of religion
at  Columbia University , professor of philosophy of religion at
Union Theological Seminary and professor emeritus at  Williams
College . His recent books are “Crisis on Campus: A Bold Plan for
Reforming Our Colleges and Universities” and “Refiguring the
Spiritual: Beuys, Barney, Turrell, Goldsworthy.” The opinions
expressed are his own. This is the third of three articles on
how online education will transform the meaning of college. Read
Parts  1  and  2 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  shareholder revolts  and
 advice for Greek voters ;  Edward Glaeser  on the  meaning of the
latest job numbers ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on the  TSA and underwear
bombers ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on  Mitt Romney ’s  health-care plans ;
William Pesek on  Japan’s asset bubble ; Meghan L. O’Sullivan on
 Israel’s natural-gas bonanza .  To contact the writer of this article:
Mark C. Taylor at  mct22@columbia.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 