-- Colonoscopy Alternative Reduces Cancer Rates, Research Finds
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-05-21T15:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/colonoscopy-alternative-reduces-cancer-rates-research-finds.html
An alternative to colonoscopy that
only looks at a portion of the colon rather than the whole
intestine reduced cancer rates, a study found.  The screening, called flexible sigmoidoscopy, was
associated with a 21 percent decline in  colon cancer  cases and a
26 percent reduction in deaths from the disease compared with
those given usual care, according to research presented today at
 Digestive Disease Week  in  San Diego  and published in the  New
England Journal of Medicine . Many of those who had an abnormal
result with sigmoidoscopy then had a colonoscopy.  More than 103,000 new cases of colon cancer will be
diagnosed this year and about 50,000 people die from the disease
in the U.S., according to the  National Cancer Institute . About
40 percent of the  U.S. population  that should be screened aren’t
getting the procedure, lead study author  Robert Schoen  said.
Preparation for flexible sigmoidoscopy takes less time, and
offering an alternative may help reduce colon cancer, he said.  “It is an expensive test and some people don’t want to
have it, so we need to use alternative tests,” said Schoen, a
professor of medicine and epidemiology at the  University of
Pittsburgh , in a telephone interview today.  A patient undergoing a  flexible sigmoidoscopy  doesn’t need
to be sedated for the procedure. The procedure usually only
requires a couple of enemas on the day of the test. A standard
colonoscopy on the other hand involves taking a laxative with as
much as a gallon of liquid the day before the procedure. During
a  colonoscopy , patients are sedated while a fiberoptic tube with
a camera and light are inserted into the intestine.  Study Design  The study, which started in 1993, included 154,900 men and
women who were ages 55 to 74. Participants were randomly
assigned to receive flexible sigmoidoscopy with repeat screening
at three or five years or usual care, which was whatever
screening they received during routine medical care under their
physician.  The researchers found 1,012 cases of colon cancer in the
treatment group compared with 1,287 in the usual care group, a
21 percent reduction. There were 252 deaths in the treatment
group and 341 in the usual care group, a 26 percent reduction.  The study also showed a 50 percent reduction in death from
distal colon cancer, which is a portion of the colon examined by
flexible sigmoidoscopy.  About 22 percent in the flexible sigmoidoscopy group who
had an abnormal result went on to have a full colonoscopy within
one year of the abnormal result, Schoen said.  The study was funded by the U.S.  National Cancer Institute ,
part of the  National Institutes of Health .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  