-- Comcast to Share Internet Hot Spots With Cable Partners
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-05-21T20:51:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/comcast-to-share-wi-fi-internet-hotspots-with-cable-competitors.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the biggest U.S.
broadband provider, is teaming up with other large cable
companies to create a nationwide network of Wi-Fi hot spots,
helping them fend off competition from phone carriers.  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , Cablevision Systems Corp., Bright
House Networks LLC and Cox Communications Inc. are part of the
pact, according to a statement from the companies today. The
five cable carriers will let one another’s Web customers connect
laptops, tablets and other mobile devices to their Wi-Fi
networks in metro areas, totaling more than 50,000 hot spots.  The cable providers are trying to ward off phone companies
such as  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  AT&T Inc. (T) , which are
expanding onto their turf by offering TV and broadband access in
addition to wireless and land-line phone connections. By
boosting free wireless-Internet coverage, the cable carriers are
attempting to give customers another reason to stay.  The “strategic implications are profound” for a
nationwide connected Wi-Fi network, said  Craig Moffett , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  New York .  Theoretically, a cable customer could be able to connect to
a Wi-Fi network in the home, at work and in popular city
locations -- such as coffee shops and shopping malls -- and not
need a separate wireless account, he said in a note to clients.  ‘Dirty Little Secret’  “The dirty little secret of the wireless industry is the
vast majority of usage comes from very limited places,” Moffett
said. “If the cable companies can get that piece of the puzzle,
they can do something interesting.”  Comcast, Time Warner Cable, Cox and Bright House also have
agreements with Verizon’s wireless business to market and sell
its mobile product with their cable services.  Shares of Comcast, based in Philadelphia, rose 1.5 percent
to $28.71 at the close today. New York-based Time Warner Cable
added 3.4 percent to $76.58.  Cablevision (CVC) , based in Bethpage, New
York, climbed 2.9 percent to $11.41.  The accord will allow the cable companies to study whether
Wi-Fi service helps them reduce customer defections, increase
satisfaction scores, and connect more devices to their network,
Pat Esser, president of closely held Cox, the third-largest U.S.
cable company, said in an interview. Cox will spend much of 2013
building access points, particularly in high-density population
areas in northern  Virginia  and  Connecticut , he said.  Testing Phase  “This gives us an opportunity to work with our peers to do
a trial,” Esser said. “This gives us a chance to figure out
the value proposition of Wi-Fi.”  Comcast announced last week that it would eliminate caps on
monthly usage for broadband customers and instead charge users
who consume more than 300 gigabytes per month. Wi-Fi usage
counts against the threshold,  Neil Smit , Comcast’s cable
president and chief executive officer, said today.  “Consumers are adding Wi-Fi connected devices every day,
but they don’t want to pay for service plans for every one of
them,” said Tom Nagel, Comcast’s senior vice president and
general manager of wireless services. “We want to provide
connectivity a little broader than the home, including inside of
businesses that become broadband customers of ours.”  As part of the Wi-Fi accord, Cablevision and Bright House
already started sharing their Wi-Fi networks in the New York
area and central  Florida  earlier this month.  In 2010, Cablevision, Comcast and Time Warner Cable entered
into a regional agreement allowing customers in New York City,
Long Island,  New Jersey , Philadelphia and Connecticut to access
one another’s Wi-Fi hot spots.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  