-- Consumers May See New Limits on Mandatory Arbitration
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-05-21T23:39:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/consumers-may-see-new-limits-on-mandatory-arbitration.html
American companies have spent a
decade convincing judges that consumers should keep complaints
out of the courts and use arbitration instead. Now business has
to persuade a potentially more skeptical group: regulators.  Two U.S. agencies -- the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau and the Securities and Exchange Commission -- are
studying whether to take steps to limit or ban so-called
mandatory arbitration clauses from financial contracts with
consumers.  “The action on mandatory arbitration has shifted to the
agencies,”  Deepak Gupta , a former lawyer for the bureau who
also argued a 2011  Supreme Court  case on arbitration, said in an
interview.  Alan Kaplinsky, head of the consumer finance practice at
Ballard Spahr LLC, said a regulatory rollback of mandatory
arbitration has the potential to impose new litigation risks and
costs on providers of checking accounts, credit cards and payday
loans. They can also be found in contracts for employment,
mobile phones and rental equipment.  “These clauses are utterly ubiquitous in financial
services,” Kaplinsky said in an interview.  The regulator push-back has been evident in at least two
recent actions. In February, the SEC forced The  Carlyle Group LP (CG) 
to remove from its proposed public offering documents a clause
that would have required its new shareholders to use
arbitration. The consumer bureau, established by the same Dodd-
Frank Act that gave it the power to regulate the clauses, has
started a study to determine if arbitration does consumers more
harm than good.  Class-Action Suits  Companies have portrayed arbitration as a tool to avoid
frivolous but expensive-to-defend class-action lawsuits that
only benefit trial lawyers. Consumer groups charge it limits
redress, especially in cases where the individual damage is
small but the collective cost is large.  Recent class-action cases over overdraft fees on checking
accounts hint at the potential impact on banks. A federal judge
in 2010 ordered  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  to pay more than $200 million
to customers who paid higher fees due to how the bank posted
transactions to checking accounts.  The Supreme Court found in favor of mandatory arbitration
in a 2011 case,  AT&T Mobility  v. Concepcion, the case that Gupta
argued. After the decision, Wells sought to terminate the class-
action case.  The judge has not yet ruled on the bank’s argument that the
individual consumers should be compelled to seek arbitration, as
required under their checking account contracts, Wells
spokeswoman Richele Messick said in an e-mail.  Clauses Common  In a report published in April 2011, the Pew Charitable
Trusts found that 94 percent of checking accounts at the 10
largest U.S. banks include a clause waiving the right to bring a
class-action suit. Also, 71 percent explicitly require
arbitration in case of disputes, according to Pew.  Class-action suits make financial sense for plaintiffs when
they can aggregate small amounts -- in the case of Concepcion, a
$30 payment per person -- into a large group complaint, often
worth millions. By obligating customers to arbitrate, companies
can stop class-action cases before they start.  Elizabeth Warren , the Obama administration adviser who set
up the consumer bureau and is now running for the  U.S. Senate 
from  Massachusetts , was a strong opponent of mandatory
arbitration. In a September 2007 blog post, she said the idea
has a “folksy, cheap and fair” image.  ‘Death Star’  “The data suggest, however, that it is Darth Vader’s Death
Star -- the Empire always wins,” Warren wrote.  In the investment arena, regulators have sanctioned
arbitration in disputes between consumers and brokers, while
forbidding its mandatory use by shareholders.  In February, Carlyle abandoned a clause in its prospectus
for an initial public offering that would have required
shareholders to submit disputes to arbitration. The SEC told the
company it would not sign off on a waiver that allows
underwriters to price the IPO shortly before the stock’s
introduction unless the clause was dropped.  Brian Fitzpatrick, a professor of law at Vanderbilt Law
School, said the SEC could be vulnerable to a court challenge on
forcing shareholders to arbitrate. The SEC relies on
longstanding practice, not a specific regulation or law, to
stamp out arbitration clauses for shareholders.  Challenge Expected  “It’s only a matter of time,” Fitzpatrick said in an
interview. “Someone is going to test the practice, and that
will open up a whole new door for arbitration.”  The Financial Industry Regulator Authority, a private-
sector self-regulatory agency overseen by the SEC, uses
arbitration to settle disputes between investors and their
brokers.  The Dodd-Frank law of 2010 directs the SEC to study the
issue of mandatory arbitration as part of a broader look at what
information investors should have about their brokers. The study
was completed in January 2011.  Dodd-Frank also gives the commission explicit authority to
regulate mandatory arbitration. The provision was included amid
“concerns over the past several years that mandatory pre-
dispute arbitration is unfair to the investors,” according to a
Senate Banking Committee report from April 2010. No action is
currently planned for rules on arbitration, according to the
SEC’s Dodd-Frank rulemaking  calendar .  The consumer bureau began its study on April 24 with a call
for public comment on how it should conduct the research. Battle
lines are now forming around the issue, with the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce and the trial lawyers group, the  American Association 
for Justice, gearing up for a regulatory fight.  Industry’s View  Matt Webb, senior vice president at the Chamber’s Institute
for Legal Reform, asserted that if the agency “does an even-
handed and robust study of how arbitration is used in the real
world,” it will support the industry’s side.  “It will be difficult for the CFPB to go down the road to
rulemaking on this front,” Webb said in an interview.  Christine Hines, a lawyer with  Public Citizen , a consumer
advocacy group, predicted the bureau would probably oppose
arbitration because class-action suits buttress the rest of its
work.  “If I were the CFPB, I’d want consumers to be able to
enforce their own rights so the agency does not have to do
everything itself,” Hines said in an interview.  Cordray’s History  Will Wade-Gery, an official in the bureau’s division of
research, markets and regulations, is handling the study
directly, according to a Federal Register notice published April
27. Wade-Gery is a former lawyer with Morrison Foerster LLC and
advocated in favor of arbitration in Ross v. Bank of America, a
case involving the use of antitrust laws to trump arbitration
clauses, according to court documents.  Richard Cordray , the bureau’s director, spoke out against
mandatory arbitration while he was attorney general of  Ohio  from
2008 to 2011. In an undated circular, he  advised  Ohioans not to
sign home improvement contracts if they contained such clauses.  Attorneys general  are generally critics of mandatory
arbitration because they have regarded the practice as contrary
to consumer interests, said Paul Bland, an attorney with Public
Justice, an advocacy group.  “Republican and Democratic attorneys general have joined
hands on this issue for 15 years,” Bland said in an interview.  “We’re in the business of reading tea leaves here in
Washington,” said L. Richard Fischer, a lawyer with Morrison
Foerster in Washington. “The tea leaves do not bode well for
mandatory arbitration clauses.”  Jen Howard, a spokeswoman for the bureau, said that the
bureau is committed to doing the study without prejudice to its
outcome.  “We have not pre-judged this issue -- our analysis will be
based on facts and data,” Howard said in an e-mail. “We look
forward to receiving robust public input on the inquiry to help
identify the best available evidence to evaluate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in  Washington  at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Maura Reynolds 
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  