-- CS Euroreal Investors Spark Liquidation of $7.6 Billion Fund
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2012-05-21T16:15:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/cs-euroreal-investors-spark-liquidation-of-7-6-billion-fund.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  plans to
liquidate its 6 billion-euro ($7.6 billion) German property
mutual fund after investors tried to withdraw more money than
the fund has available.  CS Euroreal will be wound up within five years, the Zurich-
based bank’s German property-management unit said in a  statement 
today. Two weeks ago, SEB Asset Management AG said it will
liquidate a real-estate fund of about the same size because it
couldn’t meet demand for repayments.  “Redemption requests greatly exceeded the original
forecasts,” Karl-Heinz Heuss, head of the Credit Suisse unit,
said today in a statement. CS Euroreal had raised 1.6 billion
euros in cash to cover repayments, he said.  Since the global recession that ended in 2009, German real-
estate open-ended funds have struggled to meet redemption
requests, leading seven to be dissolved. Several more, including
a fund owned by  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank, face
deadlines this year to reopen or liquidate.  CS Euroreal and  SEB ImmoInvest (SEBIMMO)  are the largest of these
funds. The remaining frozen funds hold less than 500 million
euros each, mostly invested by institutions, according to
 Germany ’s financial trade group, Bundesverband Investment und
Asset Management.  ‘Orderly’ Disposals  “Five years should be enough time for the fund to sell its
assets in an orderly way,” said Claus Thomas, a regional
director at  LaSalle Investment Management  in Munich. “There’s
still lots of demand for those types of assets.”  CS Euroreal owns La Befane shopping center in Rimini,
Italy, and the Europa Galerie mall in the German city of
Saarbruecken. SEB’s best known assets are the buildings that
make up Berlin’s Potsdamer Platz.  Credit Suisse Asset Management opened CS Euroreal for
redemptions on May 9 after the fund had been frozen for two
years. The company will probably disclose how much money
investors wanted to withdraw from the fund tomorrow, according
to today’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 