-- Cumberland, Apple-HTC, NovaLogic: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-05-21T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/cumberland-apple-novalogic-activision-intellectual-property.html
Cumberland Pharmaceuticals (CPIX) , the maker
of prescription drugs for emergency medicine, accused generic-
drug makers  Perrigo Co. (PRGO)  and InnoPharma Inc. of infringing its
patent 8,148,356., which covers the acetaminophen overdose
treatment Acethetadote.  Cumberland, based in Nashville, contends Allegan, Michigan-
based Perrigo and InnoPharma of Piscataway,  New Jersey , are
planning to introduce copies of the drug before the patent-
protection expires in 2026.  “Such conduct will constitute infringement” and create
“a reasonable apprehension of irreparable harm” to Cumberland,
its lawyers said in two complaints filed May 17 in  Delaware 
federal court in Wilmington.  Acetadote is used in hospital emergency rooms to limit
liver damage from life-threatening overuse of the pain reliever
acetaminophen -- a leading cause of poisoning in the U.S. --
according to Cumberland.  H. Rajan Sharma, InnoPharma general counsel, said the
company had no comment on the lawsuit. Arthur Shannon, a Perrigo
spokesman, didn’t immediately return phone and e-mail messages
seeking comment.  The cases are Cumberland v. Perrigo, 12cv619, and
Cumberland v. InnoPharma, 12cv618, U.S. District Court, District
of Delaware (Wilmington).  Apple, HTC Ordered Into Mediation Over Patent Suit on Aug. 28  HTC Corp. (2498)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  were ordered to meet on Aug. 28
for a mediation conference over a patent dispute brought by the
Taiwanese company against the iPhone maker, according to a court
filing.  HTC, based in Taoyuan City, Taiwan, filed the complaint on
Sept. 7 in U.S. District Court in Wilmington, Delaware, over
four patents it bought from Google Inc. related to methods to
upgrade software wirelessly.  The case is HTC Corp. v. Apple Inc., 11-cv-715, U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  NovaLogic Spars With Activision Over Use of ‘Delta Force’ Marks  NovaLogic Inc., the publisher of the “Delta Force” series
of military-themed video games, sued Activision Blizzard Inc.
for trademark infringement.  The complaint, filed in federal court in  Los Angeles ,
claims Activision allegedly infringed the “Delta Force” marks
by incorporating a “Delta Force” division into its “Call of
Duty” game.  Calabasas, California-based NovaLogic said there is no
actual “Delta Force” unit in the U.S. military, and that the
public became aware of the term only through the video game. The
U.S. Army “denied that any unit called Delta Force exists and
does not claim ownership to either the Delta Force name of
logo,” the company said in its pleadings.  Activision is also accused of incorporating a design mark
into its games that is “nearly identical” to the Delta Force
marks used by NovaLogic.  Activision, of Santa Monica,  California , didn’t respond to
an e-mailed request for comment. NovaLogic also named Voyetra
Turtle Beach Inc., Penguin Group and Microsoft Corp. as
defendants, saying all are licensees of Activision.  NovaLogic asked the court to halt further infringement of
its marks and for awards of money damages, litigation costs and
attorney fees.  The case is NovaLogic Inc. v.  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) ,
2:12-cv-04011-JFW-SH, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Los Angeles).  China to Initiate New Anti-Piracy Campaign, Xinhua Reports  New anti-piracy efforts will be made against the
manufacture and sale of counterfeit goods, China’s General
Office of the State Council said May 18 and Xinhua  reported .  The campaign will target online shopping sites, cosmetics,
medicine, agricultural production materials and vehicle
components, according to Xinhua.  The enforcement of trade secrets will also be an element in
the campaign, as well as the protection of trademark, and patent
rights, Xinhua reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  China to Make a Second Stab at Amendment to Copyright Law  China’s National Copyright Administration will respond to
feedback on a draft amendment to that country’s copyright law by
making revisions to the proposed legislation, Xinhua  reported .  The proposed amendment met opposition from Chinese music
writers, who claimed it would diminish their rights, according
to Xinhua.  Among the more than 1,500 feedback submissions came those
from trade organizations and businesses in the European Union,
Britain,  Japan ,  Taiwan ,  Hong Kong , and the U.S., the news
service reported.  The revision will be based on opinions expressed by the
public and a committee of experts, according to Xinhua.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Ex-Frontier Scientific Employee Enters Plea in Secrets Case  A former scientist at Frontier Scientific Inc. has pleaded
guilty to one charge of unauthorized access to a company
computer, the Salt Lake Tribune  reported .  In return for his guilty plea, the government dropped 25
other charges including industrial espionage and trade-secret
misappropriation allegations against Prabhu Mohapatra, 42, of
North Logan, Utah, according to the newspaper.  Mohapatra, who is set for sentencing Aug. 28, still faces a
potential prison sentence of five years, the Tribune reported.  A co-worker at the Logan, Utah-based scientific research
company noted Mohapatra’s alleged suspicious behavior and
reported him to management, the newspaper reported.  Clear Channel Works with FBI on Trade Secrets Awareness Program  CC Media Holds Inc. (CCMO) ’s Clear Channel Outdoor Americas unit
is working with the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation on a
campaign aimed at raising national awareness of industrial
espionage and trade secret theft, according to a company
 statement .  A series of what Clear Channel calls “stark and striking”
digital billboards addressing the issue have gone on display in
cities and major markets including  New York /New Jersey; Miami;
Salisbury, Maryland;  Washington /Baltimore;  San Francisco ;
Boston; and Columbus, Ohio.  Regions were chosen for their proximity to high-tech
research and development companies, laboratories, major
industries and national defense contractors, according to the
Clear Channel statement.  Trade secret misappropriation is costing the U.S. $13
billion a year, San Antonio-based Clear Channel said in its
statement.  IP Moves  Choate Hall Hires Goodwin Procter’s Haulbrook for IP Group  Choate Hall & Stewart LLP hired William R. Haulbrook for
its IP group, the Boston-based firm said in a  statement .  Haulbrook , who joins from Boston’s Goodwin Procter LLP,
does patent acquisition, counseling and enforcement work. He has
represented clients in the medical imaging and diagnostics,
computer software, industrial process simulation, polymers and
composites, alternative energy, semiconductor manufacturing,
industrial chemistry and petroleum processing industries.  Haulbrook has an undergraduate degree from the University
of  South Carolina , a master’s degree and a doctorate in chemical
engineering from the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  and a
law degree from the University of  North Carolina .  Wolf Rifkin Hires Entertainment/IP Specialist Larry Greenfield  Wolf Rifkin Shapiro Schulman & Rabkin LLP hired Larry S.
Greenfield for its entertainment and IP litigation practice, the
Los Angeles-based firm said in a statement.  Greenfield has represented clients in copyright, trademark
and trade secret disputes as well as for entertainment-industry
contracts and on privacy disputes.  He has an undergraduate degree from Cornell University and
a law degree from  New York University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 