-- Cytec to Sell Coating Resins Unit to Focus on Composites
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-05-21T15:24:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/cytec-to-sell-coating-resins-unit-to-focus-on-composites.html
Cytec Industries Inc. (CYT) , the world’s
second-biggest producer of carbon-fiber materials for airplanes,
plans to sell its largest business unit by revenue to focus on
metal-processing chemicals and composites.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. is assisting with the sale of the
coating resins business, which makes chemicals used in paint,
Woodland Park, New Jersey-based Cytec said today in a statement.
The company plans to complete the transaction by the end of the
year.  Cytec hired JPMorgan in January to review options for the
unit amid slowing demand for products such as liquid-coating
resins, radiation-cured resins and powder-coating resins, which
are used in coatings for cars, and food and beverage cans.  Cytec may get $675 million to $900 million for the unit,
Michael Sison, a Cleveland-based analyst at KeyBanc Capital
Markets Inc., said today in an e-mail. Possible buyers include
private equity and coatings companies, particularly in  Asia , he
said.  “We have improved confidence a coating resins sale is
coming in second half 2012,” Sison, who recommends buying Cytec
shares, said separately in a note.  Cytec rose 4.6 percent to $59.01 as of 11:13 a.m. in  New
York . The shares have gained 33 percent this year.  Coating resins accounted for $405 million, or 52 percent,
of the company’s sales in the first quarter, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. The unit had operating income, or sales
minus the cost of goods sold and administrative expenses, of
$28.8 million in the period, compare with overall earnings of
$86.3 million.  Umeco Takeover  The unit has the potential for annual earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of $150 million
to $200 million and could sell for 4.5 times to 6 times Ebitda,
Sison said. The price likely wouldn’t top $900 million, he said.  A sale at for $675 million, or the low end of that range,
would be the world’s fifth-biggest coatings transaction in at
least a decade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
average Ebitda multiple of 36 deals in the period was 10, the
data show.  Cytec has been adding to its composites and separations
businesses. It agreed to acquire  Umeco Plc (UMC) , a U.K.-based
producer of composite materials used in planes and cars, last
month for about 274 million pounds ($432.6 million). Also in
April, Cytec bought manufacturing assets of  India ’s Star Orechem
International Private Ltd. for 1.85 billion rupees ($33.6
million) to help expand output of chemicals uses to separate
copper from mined ore.  Hexcel Corp. (HXL)  is the world’s biggest producer of carbon-
fiber composites for the  aerospace industry .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  