-- DaVita to Pay $4.42 Billion for HealthCare Partners
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l   a n d   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-05-21T20:09:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/davita-agrees-to-pay-about-4-42-billion-for-healthcare-partners.html
DaVita Inc. (DVA) , a provider of kidney
dialysis care, agreed to buy HealthCare Partners for about $4.42
billion in cash and stock to expand into broader medical
services. The shares rose.  DaVita will pay $3.66 billion in cash plus 9.38 million
shares of its stock, which had a value of $758 million as of May
18, for HealthCare Partners, the companies said today in a
statement. Closely held HealthCare Partners will run as a
separate subsidiary of Denver-based DaVita once the acquisition
is completed.  HealthCare Partners manages medical groups and physician
networks under a system that rewards lowering health costs, said
Gary Lieberman, an analyst with Wells Fargo Securities. That
focus on savings and improved outcomes drew DaVita’s interest as
the model is “where the puck is headed for American health
care,” DaVita Chief Executive Officer Kent Thiry told analysts
on a conference call today.  “Our initial take on this transformational acquisition is
positive,” Kevin Ellich, an analyst with Piper Jaffray & Co.,
wrote in a research note. “This deal was done to provide more
comprehensive care to patients as DaVita evolves into an
integrated care provider.”  DaVita rose 4.9 percent to $84.80 at the close in  New York ,
the biggest gain since October. The shares have fallen less than
1 percent in the past 12 months.  Cost Incentive  DaVita has indicated the so-called accountable care model
also may be adopted in the dialysis industry, Lieberman said. In
that system, insurers pay a certain amount per patient each
month with the incentive for care providers to lower costs in
order to make money, he said.  “Medicare or commercial payers would pay DaVita a
capitated amount to take care of their patients, and the rest
would be on them to do a good job,” Lieberman said in a
telephone interview. “That’s where the opportunity is.”  HealthCare Partners, based in Torrance,  California ,
provides services to more than 667,000 patients through 700
physicians employed by the company or its affiliates. The
company, whose key operations are in  Southern California ,
central  Florida  and southern  Nevada , had revenue last year of
about $2.4 billion.  The purchase price is about 8.4 times HealthCare Partners’
2011 earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization of $527 million. That compares with a median of 9.7
times Ebitda for seven deals announced in the last three years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fourth-Quarter Close  The transaction probably will close early in the fourth
quarter and the combined entity will be known as DaVita
HealthCare Partners Inc., the companies said. The cash portion
of the purchase price will be funded through available cash,
credit and debt financing, they said.  DaVita’s biggest shareholder is  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B) , which has a 6.4 percent stake, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire reported
in March that it had more than doubled the number of shares it
owns in the first three months of the year.  DaVita has purchased companies in the U.S., Germany and
 India  to meet rising demand for dialysis services as the number
of people with diabetes increases.  About 552 million people may have diabetes by 2030,
compared with about 366 million now, if nothing is done to curb
the epidemic, the Brussels-based International Diabetes
Federation said in a report in November.  Blood-Sugar Levels  Diabetes results when the body is unable to properly
control sugar levels in the blood. High blood sugar can stress
the kidneys, causing them to stop working and leading to
 dialysis treatment , in which the blood is cleansed using a
machine.  DaVita in April acquired a majority stake in Lehbi Care, a
Saudi Arabian provider of kidney care, for an undisclosed price.
Lehbi operates three dialysis clinics in  Riyadh . DaVita bought
NephroLife Care India Pvt., a dialysis center operator, in
January.  Last year DaVita bought ExtraCorp AG, the owner of two
dialysis centers in  Germany , home of rival dialysis provider
Fresenius Medical Care AG, for undisclosed terms. It also
acquired DSI Renal Inc. in the U.S. for about $690 million.
Fresenius Medical is the biggest dialysis provider in the U.S.,
and DaVita is the second largest.  1,809 Facilities  DaVita operated or provided administration for 1,809
dialysis facilities in the U.S., serving about 142,000 patients,
it said in April. At the time, the company operated 11
outpatient dialysis centers in three other countries.  JP Morgan Securities LLC served as financial adviser and
Morrison & Forrester LLP served as lead counsel on the
transaction, while Sheppard Mullin Richter & Hampton LLP worked
as regulatory counsel to DaVita. Munger, Tolles & Olson LLP and
Nossaman LLP served as legal advisers to HealthCare Partners.  Peter Grauer, the chairman of Bloomberg LP, the parent
company of Bloomberg News, has served on DaVita’s board of
directors since 1994.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  