-- Delta Pilot Contract Means More Jet Purchases, Union Says
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2012-05-21T20:21:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/delta-pilot-contract-means-more-jet-purchases-union-says.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  may soon
purchase more narrow-body jets when a tentative contract with
its pilot union is ratified by a majority of members.  The accord, which includes pay raises of almost 20 percent,
would allow many first officers to upgrade to captain while also
creating additional openings for new first officers, Tim
O’Malley, chairman of the executive council for the Delta
chapter of the  Air Line Pilots Association , wrote today in a
letter to members.  The contract would also allow the Atlanta-based airline to
add more 76-seat regional jets, although “this access can only
occur if Delta first acquires small narrow-body jets flown by
Delta mainline pilots,” while also getting rid of more 50-seat
aircraft flown by regional partners, O’Malley said. Pilots prize
jobs on main jet fleets because it means better pay and benefits
over the long term.  Analysts have speculated that Delta is among the interested
buyers of the 88  Boeing Co. (BA)  717s that  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) 
acquired when it purchased AirTran Holdings Inc. last year.
Southwest has said repeatedly it would like to get rid of the
planes as soon as it can.  The jets have 117 seats and if acquired by Delta would be
flown by the carrier’s pilots rather than by regional partners.  “All Arrangements”  “We’re looking at all arrangements and we have taken note
that Southwest has indicated a desire to exit the fleet,” Delta
President Ed Bastian said at a March 13 conference hosted by
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in response to a question about the
carrier’s interest in the Southwest 717s.  O’Malley’s letter didn’t specify what types of planes Delta
would buy, although he said it would increase the ratio of
domestic flying on Delta’s main jet fleet relative to flying by
regional partners by 57 percent over the life of the contract.  The tentative contract will soon be sent to the 10,850
pilots for a ratification vote, and will be finalized if a
majority of them approve it. Pilots will get a 4 percent pay
raise upon ratification, with an additional 8.5 percent on
January 1, then another 3 percent in years 2014 and 2015,
O’Malley said in the letter.  The contract would give Delta “productivity gains and
additional aircraft flexibility, including an opportunity to
accelerate Delta’s domestic fleet restructuring strategy, which
will result in a better customer travel experience,” said  Gina Laughlin , a spokeswoman for the company, in a telephone
interview. She declined to elaborate on what types of planes the
company may buy.  Delta rose 4.3 percent to $10.58 at the close in  New York .
The stock has advanced 31 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  