-- Dollar Bond Sales Stall in Asia as Costs Soar on Debt Crisis
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2012-05-21T08:25:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/dollar-bond-sales-stall-in-asia-as-yields-soar-on-debt-crisis.html
Asian companies and sovereigns sold
no dollar-denominated bonds last week for the first time since
January after yields surged on the deepening debt crisis in
 Europe  and slowing industrial output in  China .  China Petrochemical Corp., the refiner known as Sinopec
Group, sold the last  securities  in the U.S. currency on May 10,
before the slowest week since the Lunar New Year holidays in
January, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. While yields
on U.S. Treasuries dropped to near record lows, average yields
on Asian corporate debt have surged 24 basis points to 5.31
percent, the biggest weekly gain since the period ending Oct. 7,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show. Funding costs
increased an average 10 basis points to 3.42 percent globally in
the same period, the indexes show.  Asian companies with the equivalent of $326 billion of debt
maturing this year must refinance as the crisis in Europe
deepens, with  Greece  facing new elections and Spain trying to
boost confidence in its banks after taking over Bankia SA.
German and French leaders will meet this week to map out a
revised plan for the euro after Group of Eight meetings exposed
disagreements on a rescue strategy.  “The market is increasingly nervous so more and more
people are trying to get out and that’s starting to push down
pricing,” said Endre Pedersen, a managing director in the fixed
income team at Manulife Asset Management in Hong Kong.
“Everyone is watching what’s playing out in Greece and Spain.”  Global Sales Slow  From the U.S. to Europe as well as Asia, company bond sales
are declining as concern mounts borrowers will find it more
difficult to meet their obligations amid shrinking global
growth. China’s industrial production grew the least since 2009
last month while April retail sales in the world’s second-
biggest economy missed analyst estimates.  Global corporate issuance dropped 9.46 percent to $68.9
billion last week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 China ZhengTong Auto Services Holdings Ltd. (1728)  and  Baoxin Auto
Group Ltd. (1293) , Chinese luxury auto dealers, canceled dollar deals
that were slated to help repay existing loans citing “current
market conditions.”  The yield premium investors demand to hold Asian corporate
debt denominated in dollars rather than similar-maturity
 government securities  widened 29 basis points last week to 443
basis points, or 4.43 percentage points, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes. Spreads on high-yield bonds
globally rose 54 basis points to 713 basis points in the same
period, the indexes show.  Dollar Costs Rise  The cost to borrow in dollars surged last week by the most
in two years. One-year cross-currency basis swaps, the rate
banks pay to convert euro interest payments into dollars,
widened 15.4 basis points to 70.6 basis points below the euro
interbank offered rate today from 55.2 on May 11. Costs to
exchange payments in South Korean won and South African rand for
dollars reached the most expensive levels last week in at least
three months. Negative spreads show a premium for dollar
funding.  “Funding markets are paramount. The interbank markets
where the financial sector accesses wholesale funding and the
cross-currency swap markets where banks, corporates and
governments access hard-currency funding,”  Viktor Hjort , head
of Asia fixed income research at Morgan Stanley, wrote in a May
17 note to clients. “Those taps provide important lifeblood to
markets and when they’re turned off bearish sentiment turns into
real default risk.” Funding is so far holding up better than
expected, he said.  Spanish Bank Downgrades  Spain ’s borrowing costs surged last week on concern banking
losses will widen amid an increase in bad bank loans, the
recession and restricted funding access. Moody’s Investors
Service downgraded 16 of the nation’s lenders last week
including Banco Santander SA and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria
SA. The ratings company said it may cut seven of them again
because of the state of the economy and the government’s
deteriorating credit.  Spain’s  10-year bond  yield rose 26 basis points last week
to 6.27 percent, after surging above 6.50 percent for the first
time since Nov. 29.  Asian companies still have about $46 billion of dollar-
denominated bonds outstanding that must be repaid on Dec. 31 or
before, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Some debt has
already been refinanced with PT Pertamina and Cnooc Ltd., state-
owned oil and gas companies from  Indonesia  and China, leading
$15.5 billion of sales in April, the most for any month in data
compiled by Bloomberg going back to 1999.  Growing Economy  Economies in emerging  Asia  may  grow  6.9 percent this year
and 7.5 percent in 2013, the  International Monetary Fund  said on
April 27. It defines emerging Asia as China, Hong Kong,  Taiwan ,
Korea,  India , Indonesia,  Malaysia , the Philippines,  Singapore ,
 Thailand  and Vietnam. The region’s issuers have about $280
billion worth of local currency notes outstanding as of May 21
that are due by the end of the year, the data show.  ZhengTong Auto may try to extend the equivalent of $315
million of loans beyond this year to fill the funding gap left
by its postponed bond sale, Sarah Zhang, a Beijing-based
investor relations manager at the company said in a telephone
interview last week. Banks have extended the equivalent of $67.1
billion in loan facilities this year to Asian companies outside
of  Japan , down from the equivalent of $126.7 billion in the same
period last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Companies may seek loans or local currency-denominated
bonds to refinance, according to Anthony Arnaudy, Hong Kong-
based regional head of  capital markets , north-east Asia at
Standard Chartered Plc.  “We may see a more active syndicated loan market, albeit
for a price,” said Arnaudy. “Local currency markets are
getting caught in some of the downdraft and are still small in
size, but they will provide some alternatives.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  