-- Drinking With Beyonce, Dining With Jean-Georges in N.Y.
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-05-21T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/drinking-with-beyonce-dining-with-jean-georges-new-york-diary.html
It’s 10 p.m. in  New York , the bars
are crowded and you’re looking for a place to drink with Playboy
chef Judy Joo, a fellow visitor from London.  Where do you suggest?  As dilemmas go, that’s not bad. It’s an easier question
than where is my next meal coming from or even how big is my
bonus? I’m in a taxi with Judy and some colleagues and we end up
at the Spotted Pig, where I know U.K. chef April Bloomfield.  “We’ve just had a call that a party is coming in,” the
woman at the door says apologetically before we are led upstairs
to the third-floor inner sanctum. This room is by invitation
only. It’s so understated, you wonder why.  We settle in, and the other group of about 20 people
arrives. It’s led by Jay-Z, the multimillionaire rapper. Behind
him is a beautiful woman. It’s his wife, Beyonce. She’s wearing
a red dress, and I’m wearing a smile.  A couple of hours pass. The other group, surprisingly
polite and friendly, is seated around a long table, chatting
quietly. Husband and wife are as engrossed in each other as
childhood sweethearts.  By this time, a member of the group has taken a fancy to
Judy, and explains that everyone is waiting for Bono. On cue, he
receives a text from someone called Bono saying he mixed up his
dates and won’t be coming. Oh, well.  Velvet Rope  As quickly as it arrived, the entourage moves on. Large
black vehicles pull up in the rain outside. Judy is invited to
come to the next location and I join her in a taxi to the Darby,
on West 14th Street. “We’re with Jay-Z,” she tells the
doorman, and in we go, down stairs and behind a velvet rope.  (The next time I see Jay-Z after this chance meeting on May
10, he’s performing before more than 20,000 people in the O2
Stadium in London on May 18.)  I’m in New York for the James Beard restaurant  awards ,
which are attended by  Daniel Boulud ,  Thomas Keller ,  David Chang ,
Wolfgang Puck and other culinary masters from across the U.S.  The top prize, for outstanding chef, is won by Daniel Humm
of Eleven Madison Park. We head -- via Bar Boulud -- to the
after-party at the restaurant. By 1 a.m., hundreds of people are
dancing, several of them on the tables. Boulud is there, jiving
on a counter with Humm like a couple of teenagers.  New York Mix  If only life were always like that. For a visitor, New York
is the usual mix of experiences and for me most of them are
positive. Staffers greet customers in stores, the taxis are
cheap compared with  London , the food is great, there’s a new
branch of  Century 21  where I stock up on clothes, and when I
have trouble buying a subway ticket, the people in the line that
builds behind me offer to help out, rather than complain.  (A friend who has moved to New York says she is reluctant
to get out a map because people are so quick to offer help.)  The negatives are minor. I’m used to more parks in London
and I’m baffled how those friendly folks I meet everywhere turn
animal when it comes to hailing a taxi. Is there no etiquette?
Are there no ground rules? Plus, it’s hard to grasp why so many
drivers appear to change their shift at the same time. I’m also
used to talkative London cabbies and find the silence weird.  Over nine days, I ate and drank my way around the city,
from a no-reservations counter in  Brooklyn  to having Jean- Georges Vongerichten cook for me at Nougatine.  My worst meal? There wasn’t one until I boarded the British
Airways business-class flight home. The menu was unappetizing, I
settled for a staff tuna sandwich wrapped in plastic.  Welcome to London.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include: Farah Nayeri on  film  at Cannes,
Guy Collins on  wine  and James Russell on  architecture .  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in New York at
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 