-- Health Bargain Hunters Use Websites to Cut Doctor Bills
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-05-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/health-bargain-hunters-use-websites-to-cut-doctor-bills.html
Surgery to remove your appendix in
one  California  hospital could cost $180,000. Have the operation
at a different facility in the same state and the bill might be
as little as $1,500.  That kind of disparity, typical across the country,
combined with escalating medical spending and the increasing
amount of data available online, has prompted several startups
to get into the business of helping companies and their
employees save health-care dollars.  “This is about changing the way people shop for health
care, and as a consequence, changing the way care gets
delivered,” said Giovanni Colella, co-founder of Castlight
Health Inc., a San Francisco-based company that helps patients
shop for medical care.  Medical spending in the U.S. increased 88 percent to $2.59
trillion in the last decade while out-of-pocket expenses rose 49
percent to $299.7 billion, according to data from the Centers
for Medicare and Medicaid Services.  Castlight works by showing how much doctors, labs and
hospitals charge for their services, as well as providing
quality ratings. On May 1, the company announced it raised $100
million from investors. Other sites such as
HealthcareBlueBook.com, ClearCost Health and Change Healthcare
Corp. help employers identify less costly doctors and providers
for their workers.  Travelocity for Health Care  With their out-of pocket medical expenses on the rise, more
and more employees are open to ways to save. Last year, 13
percent of U.S. employees were covered by so-called high-
deductible plans that require them to pay for most health costs,
an increase from 3 percent five years ago, according to Mercer,
a New York-based industry consultant.  Castlight targets companies with self-insured health plans
and charges them a monthly fee based on the number of employees
and dependents covered. It compiles paid claims data from
employers and insurers, then publishes that information on a
website for companies and their employees. The closely held
company, which bills itself as a Travelocity for health care,
serves more than 250,000 employees and their dependents at
dozens of companies.  By helping people compare the cost of medical providers,
Castlight has saved the companies they work for from 3 percent
to 5 percent of their baseline costs, Colella said.  Cheaper Care  CareOperative LLC, another closely held company, debuted
HealthcareBlueBook.com in January 2009. CareOperative lets
consumers use the service for free, while charging companies a
fee for finding health areas where they and their employees can
save. The service promises to reduce an employer’s health-care
costs as much as 6 percent by finding cheaper alternatives for
employees and giving them incentives to switch doctors or
hospitals. The Nashville, Tennessee-based site has “hundreds of
thousands” of visitors a year, Aimee Stern, a spokeswoman, said
in an interview.  Mona Lori Frisbie started OutOfPocket.com in 2007 as a
crowd-sourcing tool for patients. When few visitors posted the
prices they paid for services, she supplemented it with Medicare
data as well as links to paid claims data on other websites.
About 300 to 500 people a day use the free service, she says,
which pays for itself with  Internet advertising .  “Everyone wants to search and look, but not many people
want to contribute and share,” Frisbie said in a telephone
interview. “It doesn’t have the same effect as some of these
other social media tools, where people like to share where
they’re eating and staying.”  High Deductibles  One trouble with these services is that it’s not easy to
make direct price comparisons with medical treatments and many
consumers won’t take the time to do it even if such a service is
available, said Paul Keckley, executive director of the Deloitte
Center for Health Solutions in  Washington .  “This stuff is over everybody’s head,” Keckley said,
though, “there’s always going to be a certain group, we think
it’s about 2 percent, that will really act on this.”  Keckley said he expects these services to continue to
expand, albeit at a slow pace, as more employees are shifted
onto high-deductible insurance plans.  While Colella wouldn’t say if Castlight is profitable yet,
revenue is increasing “exponentially,” and the number of
customers will more than double this year, he said.  Allison Brown, director of employee services at  Regis Corp. (RGS) ,
said using the Castlight service has paid off.  “We have had people actually challenge their doctors on
what they were charged, based on what they saw in the Castlight
system,” she said.  Wide Disparities  Arming patients with wide price disparities helps them
negotiate, Brown said. And those disparities can be wide. Renee
Hsia, an assistant professor of emergency medicine at the
 University of California , San Francisco, highlighted the pricing
variations in a research  report  that looked at how much
California hospitals charge for routine appendicitis. Bills
ranged from $1,529 to $182,955, with a median cost of $33,611,
according to Hsia’s report, which didn’t name the facilities.  “Health care is one of those things where there’s always
going to be so much information asymmetry,” she said. “We just
don’t know enough because it’s so specialized.”  While consumer services such as Castlight can provide
valuable data, patients need to understand that cost differences
may depend on the individual decisions made by their doctors
facing highly individualized situations, she said.  Treatment Options  “Are you going to require a few CT scans or just one, or
none?” she asked. “Are you going to require a different type
of surgery? Even if they post that charge for appendicitis, it’s
going to be very difficult.”  Understanding the differences among tests, medications and
types of services is another hurdle, said David Belk, a doctor
in Alameda, California, who wrote about the topic in a report,
“The True Cost of Healthcare.”  “You know the difference between filet mignon and chuck
steak, but you don’t know the difference between generic
amlodipine and brand-name Norvasc,” which is Pfizer Inc.’s
blood pressure medication, he said.  Another customer, Life Technologies Inc., a Carlsbad,
California-based maker of gene sequencing machines, hired
Castlight in early 2011, and more than half of employees on the
system made a different decision than they would have without
the information, according to a survey, said Carole Mendoza, a
spokeswoman.  While publishing prices may spur more-expensive providers
to lower costs, it could also prompt some physicians to boost
fees if they’re on the cheaper end of the scale, according to an
editorial published in the New England Journal of Medicine last
year.  Making the Effort  Jon Cohen, chief medical officer for Quest Diagnostics Inc.,
said even with quality rankings available on doctors, most
people don’t exert much effort finding the best providers.
Patients “spend twice as much time deciding which model TV to
buy as they do deciding which physician to chose,” he said.  Cohen, who spoke at a health-technology conference last
month on why patients don’t act like consumers, said convenience
is the biggest motivator for choosing a doctor.  “They’ll say this physician has office hours in the
evening, or he returns my phone calls, or the parking is great,
or the staff is nice,” he said. His own father didn’t consult
him before choosing a doctor to operate on his hernia, he said.  The deciding factor? “He told me, ‘Well, he served donuts
in the waiting room,”’ Cohen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 