-- Health-Care Costs Rise Faster Than U.S. Inflation Rate
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-05-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/health-care-costs-rise-faster-than-u-s-inflation-rate.html
Doctors, hospitals and drugmakers
raised prices faster than inflation in 2010, driving U.S. health
costs higher as fewer Americans sought care after the recession.  Spending on workers covered on the job grew 3.3 percent per
person in 2010, twice the general inflation rate, according to a
 report  today from the Health Care Cost Institute, a Washington
group that examined data from insurers including  UnitedHealth
Group Inc. (UNH)  and  Aetna Inc. (AET)  While costs increased, enrollment in
employer-sponsored plans declined, the researchers said.  U.S. medical spending almost doubled in the last decade,
reaching $2.6 trillion in 2010, according to  federal government
statistics . Today’s data suggest policymakers may have to
consider the market power of hospitals and doctors to try to
tame that growth, said Martin Gaynor, an economist at  Carnegie
Mellon University  in Pittsburgh who helped write the report.  “Most of the increase was driven by increases in price,”
Gaynor said in a telephone interview. “We see utilization
falling moderately and the spending is still going up.”  Researchers gained access to 3 billion claims from
UnitedHealth, Aetna and  Humana Inc. (HUM) , three of the four biggest
insurers by enrollment, as well as from Kaiser Permanente, one
of the biggest nonprofit plans. It’s the largest set of private
insurance data ever assembled for study, Gaynor said.  While the insurers provided “seed funding” for the
Washington-based  institute , they’ve put no limit on what
questions researchers can ask and have no control over what they
produce, Gaynor said. The group plans to update the database
with more-recent claims and make the information available to
researchers around the country for further study.  Slowing Growth  Today’s report found the growth in spending for employer-
backed plans slowed in 2010 for the third year in a row. Even
so, the average price of  prescription drugs  rose 3 percent,
inpatient admissions cost 5.1 percent more and the price of
outpatient visits increased 10 percent.  At the same time, the number of covered employees fell 1
percent to 156.5 million and there was no sign members were any
sicker that year, on average, researchers said. Usage rates
declined for inpatient admissions, emergency room visits,
primary-care office visits and radiology procedures.  Future studies will examine why prices rose. Statistics for
2010 are the most recent year available.  “There’s been an awful lot of consolidation in certain
sectors of the health-care industry, and we know that tends to
lead to higher prices, but we can’t draw any conclusions yet,”
Gaynor said.  The research will add to a debate over whether the recent
slowdown in medical spending is the temporary result of a bad
economy or a more lasting shift due to higher deductibles and
other changes, Gaynor said. While insurer costs climbed 2.6
percent in 2010, employees’ share rose by 7.1 percent.  UnitedHealth, the largest U.S. health insurer, is based in
 Minnetonka , Minnesota. Aetna is based in Hartford,  Connecticut ;
Humana in Louisville, Kentucky; and  Kaiser Permanente  in
Oakland,  California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  