-- Heat May Follow Cool to End Week in East Coast, Midwest
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-05-21T13:03:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/heat-may-follow-cool-to-end-week-in-east-coast-midwest.html
This week will end hotter than it’s
starting from the Midwest to the East Coast, which may boost
demand for energy to keep cool.  Temperatures from Missouri to western New York and southern
Quebec are expected to be 8 to 14 degrees Fahrenheit (4.4 to 7.8
Celsius) above normal by week’s end, according to  MDA EarthSat
Weather  in Gaithersburg, Maryland.  St. Louis  may reach 98 degrees and Memphis 97 by May 26,
with temperatures rising to or near 90 in  Washington , Chicago,
Dallas, Houston, Atlanta and Cincinnati, MDA said. Toronto is
forecast to see 88 by May 26, according to  Environment Canada .  “Some potent heat is expected for a few days over the
Midwest to the Great Lakes as a ridge builds over the central to
eastern U.S.,” MDA said in a note to clients today.  High temperatures send people to air conditioners to cool
homes and businesses, creating demand for electricity. Because
of lower prices for natural gas, more  power plants  are using the
fuel.  This week’s U.S. cooling-degree days value may reach 39, or
28 above normal and 36 more than last year, according to the
Climate Prediction Center in Camp Springs,  Maryland .  The value is calculated by subtracting a base of 65 degrees
from the daily average temperature to show. Higher values mean
warmer weather and more energy for cooling. Energy and weather
derivatives traders use the value to gauge market demand.  Energy Demand Outlook  At least triple the normal amount of energy may be used for
cooling from Virginia to New York from May 22 to May 28, said
 David Salmon , owner of Weather Derivatives in Belton, Missouri.  Salmon also predicted Boston, Chicago and Detroit may use
at least double the usual amount.  More seasonal air will spread throughout the East Coast and
in the western U.S. by May 31 to June 4, said  Matt Rogers ,
president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland.  The Midwest may still be 5 to 8 degrees above normal in
that timeframe, Rogers said.  The normal average temperature in  New York  on May 29 is 67
degrees, according to MDA. It’s 61 in Boston, 69 in Washington,
74 in Atlanta, 79 in Houston, 77 in Dallas, 58 in Seattle and 67
in Burbank,  California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  