-- Eaton Expects $160 Million Tax Savings From Ireland Move
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-05-21T21:44:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/eaton-expects-160-million-tax-savings-from-ireland-move.html
Eaton Corp. (ETN) ’s decision to buy  Cooper
Industries Plc (CBE)  and place the combined company’s headquarters in
Cooper’s Ireland instead of Eaton’s Cleveland home will save
$160 million a year in taxes by 2016, the companies said.  The move, announced today, underscores the tax
disincentives for multinational companies organized in the U.S.,
said Gary Clyde Hufbauer, a senior fellow at the Peterson
Institute for International Economics in Washington.  “The U.S. tax system just invites this,” said Hufbauer, a
former deputy assistant secretary at the Treasury Department.
“Any tax adviser in his right mind for this kind of thing would
suggest: Locate the new company abroad.”  The U.S. has the industrialized world’s highest statutory
corporate  tax rate  at 35 percent. U.S.-based companies must pay
taxes when they repatriate profits earned outside the country.
Ireland has a top corporate tax rate of 12.5 percent.  President  Barack Obama  and Republican lawmakers in Congress
want to lower the statutory corporate tax rate by removing many
breaks that allow companies to have effective tax rates lower
than 35 percent.  Eaton is a maker of industrial equipment with $16 billion
in revenue in 2011. Eaton shareholders will own 73 percent of
the combined company, which may be known as Eaton Global
Corporation Plc although the name may change, said the
companies’ announcement.  ‘Cash Management Flexibility’  “Incorporating as an Irish company provides significant
global cash management flexibility and associated financial
benefits,” the companies said in  announcing  the $11.8 billion
transaction, which is expected to close in the second half of
2012.  Eaton’s effective tax rate for 2011 was 12.9 percent and
its rate for 2010 was 9.5 percent, according to  company filings .
In 2011, lower taxes on its non-U.S. operations made up more
than half of the difference between the company’s effective tax
rate and the 35 percent top U.S. rate.  The company also benefited from the research and
development tax credit and the foreign tax credit. As of the end
of 2011, Eaton had $6.4 billion in profits it earned outside the
U.S. that haven’t been taxed because they remain invested
overseas, according to the filings.  Cooper, which makes electrical-distribution equipment, was
a U.S. company before a 2002 transaction moved the headquarters
to  Bermuda . In 2009, the company moved from Bermuda to Ireland.  Corporate Inversion  The moves by Cooper and other companies such as Ingersoll-
Rand Plc prompted Congress to make it more difficult to carry
out corporate inversions in which a U.S. company ends up
operating as part of a foreign-owned company. In 2002, Senator
 Charles Grassley  of  Iowa , then the top Republican on the Finance
Committee, called such transactions immoral.  The Obama administration has proposed preventing companies
from deducting the cost of moving operations outside this
country. Congress hasn’t acted on that idea.  Based on 2011 sales, the combined companies in the deal
announced today had 49 percent of their sales in the U.S.  Eaton probably will borrow in the U.S. to take advantage of
interest deductions against the 35 percent rate on its U.S.
earnings, said David Rosenbloom, an international tax attorney
at Caplin & Drysdale in Washington.  “Congress seems to be just peachy keen with that,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  