-- Eaton’s Auto Roots Fade in $11.8 Billion Cooper Purchase
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-05-21T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/eaton-s-auto-roots-fade-in-11-8-billion-cooper-purchase.html
Eaton Corp. (ETN) ’s $11.8 billion
acquisition of  Cooper Industries Plc (CBE)  means electrical products
such as equipment to illuminate buildings will generate the
majority of the manufacturer’s sales, marking the biggest move
yet away from its 101-year-old roots in auto parts.  Founded in 1911 to build truck axles, Eaton expects to draw
59 percent of its sales from electrical equipment, based on 2011
sales of the combined companies. Sales of auto and truck parts
will drop to 20 percent from 27 percent last year and 43 percent
in 1999, the year before Sandy Cutler became chief executive
officer and decided to diversify.  Moving further away from auto and truck parts will help
drive up the stock price as investors begin to value Eaton more
as a multi-industrial company, said Jeffrey Sprague, the
Vertical Research Partners co-founder who predicted in September
that Eaton might buy Cooper.  “Eaton has always maintained its valuation around some of
the more cyclical truck-related businesses and machinery-related
businesses,” Sprague said in a telephone interview. “Bringing
the company’s sales to about 60 percent electrical will help
improve Eaton’s valuation over time.”  In the transaction announced yesterday, each Cooper share
will be exchanged for $39.15 in cash and 0.77479 Eaton share.
That offer is valued at $72 a share based on Eaton’s May 18
closing price, 29 percent more than Cooper’s price that day,
Eaton said.  The deal is Eaton’s biggest and expands its markets to
include providing lighting gear for utilities and commercial
buildings, along with boosting residential-construction sales.
Cutler has predicted housing may grow by 25 percent annually in
the next couple of years.  Complementary Products  “The combined company leverages complementary products,
accelerates long-term growth opportunities and increases
exposure to high-potential end markets,” Ajay Kejriwal, an FBR
Capital Markets analyst in  New York , wrote in a note yesterday.  Eaton’s purchase is the largest in at least a decade in
miscellaneous manufacturing, based on data compiled by
Bloomberg. It is paying about 14 times earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, exceeding the median of
about 8 times in more than 100 similar takeovers since 2002.  Cooper had been the focus of takeover speculation for
months. The shares jumped the most in more than two years in
September after Sprague suggested that the company would be a
good fit with Eaton. Eaton’s price-to-earnings ratio is 10 times
and might climb to 14 times as investors alter their assessment
of the company based on its increased focus on electrical
equipment, he said.  Additional Bidder  Eaton fell 0.7  percent  to $42.09 at the close of trading
yesterday in New York, extending the stock’s decline to 10
consecutive days. Cooper rose 25 percent to $69.88 after
advancing 3.1 percent this year before the announcement.  Another bidder for Cooper may surface as European companies
seek to expand in the U.S., Kejriwal said. Zurich-based  ABB
Ltd. (ABBN) ’s $3.9 billion purchase of Thomas & Betts Corp. this year
left Cooper and  Hubbell Inc. (HUB/B)  as the only two large independent
electrical-equipment companies in the U.S., he said.  Eaton said the transaction will boost operating earnings by
35 cents a share in 2014, and 45 cents a share in 2015. The deal
will lower earnings by 10 cents next year. The combined company
will be based in Ireland, where Cooper is now incorporated.  “The stock can work really well from here on the core
earnings growth of the company and the accretion,” Sprague
said. “If you can add the valuation improvement on top of that,
you really boost the returns quite substantially.”  Little Overlap  Eaton’s manufacturing portfolio also includes hydraulic
products and aerospace parts. Cooper, which operates from
Houston, gets 60 percent of its sales in the U.S., Eaton said.  Cutler said Eaton and Cooper have little overlap, allowing
expansion into industries such as oil and gas where the stand-
alone Eaton had little penetration.  “This is a real transformative deal in terms of bringing
together two complementary companies in the electrical space,
and helps create a larger and more capable firm,” Cutler said
in a telephone interview.  The combined companies had 2011 revenue of $21.5 billion
and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization -- a measure of  cash flow  known as Ebitda -- of
$3.1 billion, according to Eaton’s statement.  Deal Financing  Eaton obtained a $6.75 billion bridge financing commitment
from units of  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  The banks are
acting as financial advisers to Eaton, while  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  is working with Cooper. Eaton plans to replace the bridge
loan with $5.1 billion of term debt with different maturities.
Cutler said repaying debt will be a priority.  Standard & Poor’s  Ratings Services and Moody’s Investors
Service both said they may lower Eaton’s credit rating because
of higher debt related to the acquisition. Eaton’s debt is rated
‘A-’ by Standard & Poor’s and an equivalent A3 by Moody’s. Both
are four notches above junk.  Eaton’s “credit quality measures are currently somewhat
subpar compared with ratios we expect for the current rating,”
S&P said in a statement. “We expect the partly debt-financed
acquisition of Cooper to weaken credit measures further on the
close of the acquisition.”  Joel Levington , managing director of corporate credit at
Brookfield Investment Management Inc. in New York, said a
credit-rating reduction of one level is likely.  Deal Savings  “A downgrade might be an opportunity for new bondholders
to get a high-quality company that will be focused on debt
reduction,” he said.  After the transaction, Eaton expects its debt rating will
rise one level to ‘A’ over the “medium term” from S&P’s rating
of A-, according to a company presentation. S&P lowered Eaton’s
rating to ‘A-’ from ‘A’ in January 2009.  Eaton said its shareholders are expected to own about 73
percent of the combined company, which may be called Eaton
Global Corp. The company said the transaction is expected to
close in the fall of 2012.  Eaton projects savings of $535 million, with $160 million
of that coming from global cash management and tax benefits
related to incorporation in Ireland. Another $260 million will
be achieved through cost cuts and $115 million through “sales
synergies.”  Eaton expects $200 million of acquisition integration
charges, with most of that coming in 2013 and 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  