-- Lebanon Clashes Reach Beirut After Anti-Syrian Cleric Death
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-05-21T12:12:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/lebanon-clashes-reach-beirut-after-anti-syrian-cleric-s-killing.html
At least two people were killed in
 Beirut  as clashes between supporters of Syria’s government and
opposition members spread to the Lebanese capital for the first
time since Syria’s uprising broke out last year.  More than a dozen people were also wounded in overnight
fighting that was triggered by the killing of Ahmed Abdel-Wahid,
a Lebanese Sunni Muslim cleric and opponent of Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad. He was killed at an army checkpoint near the
northern city of Tripoli, Lebanon’s state-run National News
Agency said. Tripoli witnessed clashes last week between Sunni
groups and Assad supporters from his Alawite sect.  The prospect of the unrest in Syria spilling over to its
smaller neighbor, which has suffered a history of sectarian
violence, has long alarmed analysts.  Fitch Ratings  said in 
March that the possibility of disruptions to the Lebanese
economy were high.  “The risks in Lebanon are huge,” said  Peter Harling ,
director of the Egypt-Syria-Lebanon Project at the Brussels-
based  International Crisis Group  think tank. “Syria has played
a key role in Lebanon; often times a destabilizing role but also
a regulating one. The Lebanese have made no progress in
emancipating themselves from the Syrian role.”  Army Investigation  Syria is the only land route for exports and tourist
arrivals into Lebanon -- the most indebted Arab nation. It has
acted as a main power broker between Lebanese political groups
since the end of World War II, using force at times to sway the
balance in favor of its allies.  Lebanon’s army deployed in the neighborhood of Tariq
Jedideh after last night’s clashes, which left charred stores
and cars riddled with bullets, television footage showed. A
group of Sunni clerics accused army personnel of killing Abdel-
Wahid in the town of Akkar, according to a statement read live
on MTV television. The army started an investigation into the
incident, it said today.  The suspected involvement of the army brings the military,
which has acted as a national symbol of unity since the end of
the civil war in 1990, to the fore of the brewing crisis that
has prompted Bahrain, Qatar, the  United Arab Emirates  and  Kuwait 
to urge their citizens to leave the country. Lebanon’s tourist
arrivals declined 24 percent in 2011 “partly because of a fall
in visitors from the Arab world,” Fitch said in a report March
13.  Disruption Potential  Solidere (SOLA) , Lebanon’s biggest publicly traded real estate
developer, saw its A shares fall for the fourth day, declining
0.8 percent to $13.08 at 2 p.m. in Beirut, the lowest level
since 2005. The company is controlled by the family of former
Prime Minister Rafiq al-Hariri, whose son  Saad Hariri  heads the
anti-Syrian Future movement.  Future supporters blame Syria and its domestic allies for
Rafiq Hariri’s assassination in 2005, an accusation that Assad’s
regime has repeatedly denied. The killing sparked mass protests
that forced Syria to pull out its troops from Lebanon 29 years
after it sent them in to restore order during the country’s
civil war that lasted until 1990.  The yield on Lebanon’s 5 percent dollar bonds due October
2017 rose for a sixth day, gaining three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 5.030 percent, the highest level since
April 25, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield had fallen
to a record low of 4.9156 percent on May 11, the data show.  Lebanon is rated B at Fitch, five levels below investment
grade. While the effect of  Syria ’s uprising on Lebanon has been
limited, the “potential for disruption is high,” the company
said in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  