-- Meda Cash Flow Invites Pipeline Deal at 95% Discount
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i   a n d   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-05-22T16:03:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/meda-cash-flow-invites-pipeline-deal-at-95-discount-real-m-a.html
Meda AB (MEDAA) ,  Sweden ’s biggest publicly
traded drugmaker, is offering one of the best deals in the world
for pharmaceutical companies looking to replenish their
pipelines by swallowing up rivals.  As of yesterday, the $2.78 billion company was trading at
5.4 times its projected cash flow in 2013, cheaper than 95
percent of specialty drug companies with market values larger
than $1 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Meda
was also valued at a discount of more than 70 percent to its
competitors relative to sales and net assets, the data show.  While Meda in February said margins will suffer this year
as it boosts spending on marketing, earnings are projected to
reach a record in 2013, helped by sales from drugs such as its
Dymista allergy medicine, which won U.S. approval this month.
With Dymista poised to become the company’s top seller and at
least six more drugs set to reach the market in coming years,
Solna, Sweden-based Meda could lure suitors such as  Valeant
Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX)  and Takeda Pharmaceutical
Co., according to  Nordea Bank AB. (NDA)   “Clearly, there would be some value for an acquirer,”
Peter Lampert, a Calgary-based analyst at Mawer Investment
Management Ltd., which oversees about $12 billion and owned 1.4
million Meda shares as of Jan. 31, said in a telephone
interview. “They have some good assets and generate a lot of
cash flows that should be attractive to a lot of pharmaceutical
companies.”  Anders Larnholt, a spokesman for Meda, declined to comment
on whether the company has been approached by a buyer or would
consider a takeover.  Margin Squeeze  Shares of Meda rose 4.9 percent to 68.75 kronor in
Stockholm, the biggest gain among all 36 health-care companies
in the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index.  Meda’s  products , focused on respiratory, cardiology,
dermatology, central-nervous-system, pain and inflammation
treatments, generated sales of 12.9 billion Swedish kronor ($1.8
billion) in 2011.  Meda’s  earnings  before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization climbed 9 percent in 2011 to 4.7 billion kronor, or
more than 36 percent of sales. The company said it expects
Ebitda margins will be closer to 30 percent this year as it
increases spending to market new drugs, introduce over-the-
counter medicines in Europe and expand in  emerging markets .
While that would approach a five-year low, Meda is projected to
resume margin growth next year and in 2014, when  analysts 
project record Ebitda of 5.28 billion kronor, at more than 35
percent of estimated sales, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Growth Potential  “They have interesting products and their potential is
probably not reflected in the estimates until we see more of
their progress,” Markus Larsson, a  fund manager  who helps
manage 500 million euros ($639 million) at Helsinki-based
Fondita Fund Management Co., which holds Meda shares, said in a
phone interview. A takeover bid is “definitely” possible, he
said. “It wouldn’t be a surprise.”  Shares of Meda closed yesterday at 65.55 kronor, down 8.5
percent for the year and 49 percent from its  all-time high  of
127.58 kronor in December 2006. At 5.4 times its projected 2013
cash from operations after deducting capital expenses, Meda was
trading at a cheaper multiple than 63 of the 66 other specialty
pharmaceutical companies with a market value larger than $1
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The median for
the group was about 16 times.  The company was also less expensive than competitors
relative to its 2011 sales, trading at 1.5 times revenue
compared with the average for the group of 6 times, the data
show. Meda traded at 1.3 times its book value, versus an average
4.6 times for peers.  ‘Prove-It’  “On valuation, the stock’s really cheap,” Todd Bassion,
who helps manage more than $1 billion including Meda shares at
Delaware Investments in  Boston , said in a telephone interview.
“The main reason it’s cheap is they’ve re-based people’s margin
expectations. They’re saying they’re making these investments,
so now it’s kind of a prove-it story and they have to really
show that they’re coming to the market and really are generating
organic growth.”  Delaware Investments is part of Macquarie Group Ltd.  Meda may attract bigger rivals as they seek new products to
replace those losing patent protection,  Les Funtleyder , a
health-care portfolio manager in  New York  at Miller Tabak & Co.,
which manages $800 million and doesn’t own Meda, said in a
telephone interview. Globally, the  drug industry  faces the
possible loss of more than $21 billion in sales this year from
patent expirations, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Pipeline Power  “What do most pharma companies need these days? Product or
pipeline or both,” Funtleyder said. “Meda has a number of
products that could make it salable and this new one, Dymista,
is an additional revenue generator.”  Dymista, a prescription nasal spray for treating seasonal
allergies, could become the company’s top-selling treatment,
with revenue potentially reaching 2.37 billion kronor in 2016,
Luisa Hector, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in an
April 30 report. The drug will be available later this year in
the U.S., where about 60 million people are affected by seasonal
allergic rhinitis, according to the company.  Meda is seeking approval for two dermatology products,
Zyclara and a combination product containing clindamycin and
tretinoin. The company also acquired Antula Holding AB for 1.8
billion kronor last year, adding several over-the-counter
products to its portfolio and a pipeline that may result in four
new products in the coming years, according to its annual
report.  Valeant Deals  “There is a dividing line between pharmaceutical companies
that have new products and those that do not,” Chief Executive
Officer Anders Loenner said in the company’s May 9 earnings
statement. “Meda has a valuable pipeline of products that are
also close to market.”  Meda and Valeant have a history of doing deals together.
Valeant, based in Mississauga, Ontario, last June bought the
rights to sell two of Meda’s medicines in the U.S. and  Canada .
In 2008, Valeant sold its European drug business to Meda, giving
the Swedish company access to the faster-growing eastern
European markets.  “Given that they have so many collaborations, integration
would be relatively straightforward,” Patrik Ling, an analyst
at Nordea Bank in  Stockholm , said in a phone interview.  Looking for Opportunities  Valeant may also want access to Meda’s geographic coverage
in Europe, where Meda has expanded sales since buying the
business from Valeant. About 63 percent of Meda’s 2011 sales
were generated in western Europe, the company said in its annual
report. That compares with 19 percent for Valeant, according to
according to a regulatory filing in February.  “We think we can continue to find really interesting
opportunities, acquisitions at good prices, and add them and at
the end of the year have a pretty significant impact on the top
line and bottom line,” Valeant Chief Financial Officer Howard Schiller said at a health-care conference in Boston on May 7.  Valeant approached Meda last year, two people familiar with
the matter said in July. At the time, the company declined to
comment.  Laurie Little, a spokeswoman for Valeant, wouldn’t comment
on whether the company is currently exploring a purchase of Meda
or if it has done so in the past.  Takeda,  Asia ’s biggest drugmaker, is also considering more
takeovers as its  best-selling  diabetes treatment Actos loses
patent protection this year. The Osaka-based company in
September bought Swiss drugmaker Nycomed for 9.6 billion euros.  No Blockbusters  “They have said publicly they are looking at more
acquisitions, and it was rumored last year that they were also
looking at Meda when they bought Nycomed,” Ling said. “So they
might still be interested.”  Mitsuo Oguri, a Takeda spokesman in  Tokyo , declined to
comment on whether the company is currently exploring a purchase
of Meda or if it has in the past.  “Our priority is integrating Nycomed,” said Oguri by
telephone today. “However, we are looking into all options
including acquisitions that strengthen the foundation of our
business or boost our pipeline.”  While Meda has a number of products, none are the type of
standout drug that big pharmaceutical companies look for when
considering acquisition targets, Chris La Jaunie, a  New York- 
based portfolio manager at Victory Capital Management Inc.,
which oversees about $28 billion and owned shares of Meda as of
Dec. 31, said in an e-mail.  ‘Manageable’ Debt  “Meda has a portfolio of successful smaller market drugs,
but no blockbusters,” La Jaunie said. “Large pharmas really
want the latter.” Even Dymista will compete in a crowded
allergy-medicine market where generics are available, La Jaunie
said.  An acquirer would be buying a company with more debt
relative to Ebitda than 95 percent of its competitors, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Still, Meda’s net debt, at 3.5 times Ebitda in 2011, is
down from its peak of 13 times in 2005, the data show.  “It’s actually kind of mid-range of where it’s been
historically,” Bassion at Delaware Investments said. “It’s
definitely manageable.”  Even without a takeover, Bassion predicts the company’s
shares could reach 85 kronor, almost 30 percent more than
yesterday’s closing price. A buyer could offer another 30
percent on top of that, he said, which would value the company
at more than 33 billion kronor, or $4.7 billion.  “There’s certainly some aspects that would be attractive
to other companies,” given Meda’s product pipeline and
historical growth trends, Bassion said. “It’s basically a
chance to get a pharma company at very cheap valuations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Makiko Kitamura in  London  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 