-- Hedge Funds Circle as Japan’s Asset Bubble Grows
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-05-21T20:13:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/hedge-funds-circle-as-japan-s-asset-bubble-grows.html
It’s limbo, Japanese-style: How low
can bond yields go without triggering a meltdown?  This question gains urgency as 10-year government yields
disappear before the world’s eyes. At 0.83 percent, the lowest
level since 2003, they hardly compensate investors for the risks
inherent in buying IOUs from the most indebted nation. Public
 debt  is more than twice the size of the $5.5 trillion economy.
Worse, it’s still growing. Fitch Ratings today lowered the
sovereign-credit rating by one step to A+ with a negative
outlook because of  Japan ’s “leisurely” efforts to cut debt.  Ignore news that gross domestic product rose an annualized
4.1 percent from the final three months of 2011. The only reason
Japan is growing at all is excessive borrowing and zero  interest
rates . The moment Japan trims its debt, growth plunges,
deflation deepens and politicians will demand that the  Bank of
Japan  do more. That’s been Japan’s lot for 20 years now.  Yet what if the BOJ isn’t just setting Japan up for the
mother of all crises, but holding the economy back?  It’s financial blasphemy even to ask this question in
Tokyo. Here, the dogma is that Governor Masaaki Shirakawa is too
stingy and must churn out more yen to support the economy. When
virtually every economist agrees on something, I get nervous.
Remember when all the experts said the subprime crisis was
containable? Or, don’t worry,  Europe ’s banks are sound,  China’s
economy  is unstoppable,  Asia  has decoupled from the West, and
 Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and  China , the BRICs, will save the world?  Squandered Future  If there’s any lesson we should’ve learned in the post-
Lehman Brothers world, it’s that conventional wisdom is about as
reliable as Greece’s parliament. In Japan’s case, it’s time to
explore whether zero rates are squandering the nation’s future.  A bizarre dynamic is dominating Japan’s financial system,
one evidenced by two-year debt yields falling to about 0.095
percent. That is below the upper range of the BOJ’s zero-to-0.1
percent target for official borrowing  costs . It’s below the 0.1
percent interest rate the BOJ pays banks for excess reserves
held at the central bank. Such rates raise serious questions.  The BOJ does reverse auctions where it buys government debt
from the market. Last week, it failed to get enough offers from
bond dealers. Now think about that: The BOJ prints yen and uses
it to buy government debt from banks, which typically hoard the
stuff. Last week, banks essentially said: “No, thank you. We’d
rather have these dismal interest-bearing securities than your
cash, because there’s really nowhere to put that cash anyway.”
Banks certainly aren’t lending.  Politicians  are pounding the table demanding that the BOJ
expand its asset-purchase program. That, of course, isn’t
possible. The BOJ can hardly force banks to swap their bonds for
cash. So Japan is left with a problem unique to modern finance.
Banks like to keep more cash on deposit at the BOJ than they
need to in order to earn a 0.1 percent rate of return, which is
pretty good by Japan standards. To pay that rate, the BOJ
creates new money, which does nothing to help the economy.  This dynamic keeps Japan’s monetary engine in neutral at
best, and at times running in reverse. Japan’s central bank is
essentially now there to support bond prices. It’s a huge
intervention that gets little attention. Headlines roll every
time the Ministry of Finance sells yen in  currency markets . The
BOJ’s debt manipulation barely registers.  Japan has long had a bond bubble on its hands. In recent
years, hedge-fund managers such as  David Einhorn  of Greenlight
Capital Inc. and J. Kyle Bass of Hayman Advisors LP shorted
Japanese debt. Is the world’s biggest bond bubble about to
burst? Not necessarily.  Tokyo  has proved adept at stabilizing
yields in times of trouble. Also, more than 95 percent of bonds
are held domestically, eliminating risks of a tremendous capital
flight.  Endgame in Sight  Yet we are reaching an endgame of sorts. The longer Japan
sticks with the status quo, the bigger and more perilous its
bubble gets. Japan has created a kind of singularity in superlow
short-term rates that drive longer-term ones to unthinkable
levels. This arrangement has the economy walking in place and
financial incentives out of whack. It can’t last forever.  The BOJ needs to try a very different tack. That could
include buying physical assets such as real estate, home
mortgages, airports, sports stadiums, rice farms, dormant
nuclear reactors, golf courses, universities, entire villages
where populations are aging faster than  tax revenue  is rising,
you name it. In other words, get creative and radical.  Some financial tweaks are in order, too. An obvious one is
for the BOJ to drive rates on deposits it holds for financial
companies to below zero. Were the steady return that the BOJ
offers banks to disappear, bankers might put that liquidity to
use and make fresh loans. That also would weaken the yen,
boosting exporters.  Bottom line, what the BOJ is doing isn’t working. It’s
undermining Japan’s growth today and setting it up to become
another  Greece  in the years ahead.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 