-- ISS, Egan-Jones Urge` Withhold' on Chesapeake Board Vote
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-05-21T20:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/egan-jones-urges-chesapeake-holders-to-withhold-board-vot.html
Chesapeake Energy Inc. shareholders
should vote against two board members and refuse to endorse
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon ’s pay at
next month’s meeting, two shareholder advisory services said.  The board of Chesapeake has conducted “egregiously weak”
oversight and executive pay is disconnected from financial
performance, Egan-Jones Proxy Services said in a statement
released today to clients. Chesapeake needs “board-level
change,” Institutional Shareholder Services said in an e-mail
today. Chesapeake’s annual meeting is scheduled for June 8 at
its headquarters in  Oklahoma City .  Chesapeake, the second-largest U.S. natural-gas producer,
is borrowing $4 billion to ease a cash-flow shortfall that Fitch
Ratings estimates will reach $10 billion this year. The company
said May 1 it may run out of money next year to fund its
drilling program. Its shares have plunged 33 percent this year
as gas prices reached 10-year lows and probes began into
McClendon’s personal finances.  “The continuing directors serving on this board have
repeatedly failed to respond to significant shareholder concerns
and emerging best practices, demonstrating a lack of independent
oversight,” ISS analysts led by Kim Castellino wrote in a note
to clients dated yesterday and provided to Bloomberg today.  Withholding Votes  Shareholders should withhold votes for board members
Richard K. Davidson and V. Burns Hargis, ISS and Egan-Jones
said. Both men are members of the firm’s audit committee and are
responsible for failing to properly review McClendon’s decision
to borrow money against his stake in wells drilled by the
company,  New York  City Comptroller John C. Liu said in a letter
to shareholders May 17.  “We strongly disagree with the recommendations of ISS and
Egan-Jones,” Michael Kehs, a Chesapeake spokesman, said today
in an e-mail. Davidson and Hargis “are strong, independent and
highly qualified directors who have contributed significantly to
Chesapeake.”  Shareholders should support a proposal by Liu calling for
the right for long-term shareholders to nominate board members
directly, ISS and Egan-Jones said. The firm also supported three
other shareholder-backed proposals.  ISS also advised shareholders not to ratify a revised
incentive bonus plan for McClendon and other top executives.  McClendon’s “pay remains misaligned with company
performance and the company continues to employ compensation
practices that may not ensure strong pay-for-performance
alignment even with changes planned for 2012,” ISS said.  Chesapeake rose 3.8 percent to $14.91 at the close in New
York.  ISS is a unit of  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  The Egan-Jones proxy service is
a unit of Egan-Jones Ratings Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  