-- Egyptians Stress Over Vote in Landmark Presidential Race
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-05-22T09:52:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/egyptians-stress-over-voting-in-landmark-presidential-race.html
With his face taking up the entire
front page of a four-page insert in a state-run newspaper, the
advertisement for Islamist hopeful Abdel-Moneim Aboul-Fotouh is
one example of the last-minute efforts to win over voters in
 Egypt ’s presidential race.  With the so-called “period of silence” barring
campaigning into its second day ahead of the vote set to begin
tomorrow, no clear-cut favorite has emerged in polls to see
which of the 13 candidates may become the country’s first
elected president since  Hosni Mubarak  was ousted last year.  The election, which pits Islamists against secularists,
including former officials from the Mubarak era, comes as the
country faces its slowest economic growth rate in a decade. For
Egyptians such as Shaaban Mohamed, the race is defined as much
by the promise of a new start as it is clouded by the political
tensions lingering almost 16 months after the popular uprising
against Mubarak.  “I’m worried about who to vote for,” said Mohamed, a 31-
year-old barber in Cairo. “If I choose wrong, I could be giving
my vote to a fool or a fanatic. That’s not the legacy I want to
leave for my children.”  Opinion polls have offered conflicting views of who is
leading a race that has seen personal attacks in a country
where, until last year, criticizing the president led to swift
reprisals.  Brotherhood Bid  A weekly survey by the semi-official Ahram Center for
Strategic and Political Studies has put former Arab League chief
Amre Moussa, who also served as foreign minister, in first
place. At the same time, other polls have given the top spot to
Aboul-Fotouh or to Ahmed Shafik, who briefly served as Mubarak’s
last premier. With no candidate scoring above 50 percent in any
of the polls, the election is likely to be decided by a run-off
in mid-June between the two leading candidates.  Aboul-Fotouh’s ad in the May 19 edition of Akhbar al-Youm
underscores the energy -- and money -- candidates have put into
the contest, which has also featured the country’s first
presidential debate. Mohamed Mursi, the Muslim Brotherhood’s
candidate, held 25 concurrent rallies across the country via
live link-up on the last official day of campaigning, in a final
show of force aimed at giving the Islamist movement a shot at
the presidency after it swept the parliamentary elections months
earlier. The Ahram poll showed him gaining ground ahead of the
election.  ‘Bulk Votes’ Challenged  The front page of the state-run Al-Gomhouria newspaper
yesterday featured a top headline about the start of the
“period of silence” ahead of the vote. The paper’s back page,
however, was filled with an ad for Shafik.  Aboul-Fotouh’s campaign, joined by backers of presidential
contender Khalid Ali, filed an appeal with the country’s
election commission yesterday over the results of what they said
were bulk votes mailed in to the Egyptian embassy and consulate
in  Saudi Arabia , the state-run Al-Ahram Gate website reported.  The complaints were the latest twist in an acrimonious race
in which several would-be candidates were disqualified by the
election board. Secularists and Islamists have portrayed the
contest as a test of whether Egypt will move ahead into the
future or be thrust back into the past.  The Brotherhood and other groups have accused Moussa and
Shafik of being “remnants” of an ousted regime who are seeking
to revive its power. In reply, Shafik told the official Middle
East News Agency on May 20 that what the “extremists have
offered is nothing more than an attempt to drag Egypt into the
past.”  Political Bickering  The campaign allegations on both sides highlight the
tensions that have built up in the country ahead of the race.
Efforts to revive the economy have been hobbled by bickering
between the parliament and the government appointed by Egypt’s
military rulers. The lack of political consensus, a precondition
set by the  International Monetary Fund  before approving a
requested $3.2 billion loan, has meant that the financing has
been stalled since January.  Analysts such as Eurasia Group’s Hani Sabra believe a win
by Moussa would help draw in investment and boost currently weak
investor confidence in the economy.  “A Moussa victory, the most likely result, would also be
the most stabilizing outcome,” Sabra said in a report
yesterday, adding that he is disliked by both the military and
the Islamists.  “However, Moussa is a diplomat, a known commodity, and he
does not arouse passionate hatred,” Sabra said. “He would
likely succeed in bridging the gap between the competing powers.
Furthermore, his victory would demonstrate that neither the
military nor the Islamists have a monopoly on power.”  Presidential Powers  With a new constitution yet to be drafted, the issue of
determining the incoming head of state’s powers is still being
debated between the various political groups, with no clear
resolution in sight.  “As Egyptians increasingly dream of ending the
transitional period and realizing stability through electing the
new president, the electoral scene looks very complicated and
grave,” lawmaker Moustafa el-Naggar wrote in Al Masry Al Youm
newspaper yesterday.  While candidates linked to Mubarak’s rule are finding
support on the back of deteriorating security conditions, the
Muslim Brotherhood has a solid base of voters on which it can
depend, el-Naggar said. Meanwhile, “the camp of those
candidates affiliated with the revolution is fractured,” he
said. “All attempts to unite revolutionary candidates have
failed.”  The uncertainty that has built since the uprising, and the
significance of the vote, are reflected in comments by some of
the more than 50 million eligible voters in Egypt.  Regional Resonance  “We spent 30 years under Mubarak and if he and his sons
had continued, we would have turned into Somalia, with people
starving,” said 46-year-old Mona Youssef, a housewife. “We
can’t afford to make any more mistakes.”  The vote, while not the first in the region since the so-
called Arab Spring protests, holds particular resonance because
of Egypt’s size and cultural significance in the Arab world,
where it sometimes referred to as “Um al-Dounya,” or mother of
the world. Many Egyptians believe that their country’s prestige
diminished under Mubarak, even as oil-rich Gulf nations used
their wealth to secure diplomatic influence in the  Middle East .  “It’s embarrassing when Qatar replaced its desert with
skyscrapers and we’re still falling into potholes in roads that
were paved last week,” said coffee shop worker Nader el-
Desouki, 27. “This is our chance to show that Egypt truly is
the mother of the world, if we just choose correctly,” he said.
“The problem is, with these candidates, we’re not choosing
based on who is best, but on who’s the best of a bad lot.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  