-- El-Erian Says Greek Euro Exit Probably Inevitable: Tom Keene
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-05-21T14:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/el-erian-says-greek-euro-exit-probably-inevitable-tom-keene-1-.html
Greece may have to exit the 17-nation
euro and the monetary union should plan for it to ensure
stability, according to Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
Mohamed El-Erian.  “A Greek exit will be expensive and messy, but it’s
probably inevitable and therefore we should plan for it,” El-
Erian, the chief executive officer of the world’s largest
manager of bond funds, said in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.  Group of Eight leaders on May 19 urged Greece to stay
within the euro area as polls in the country showed a close race
between parties supporting and opposing the European Union’s
bailout deal. The country is preparing for June 17 elections,
following an inconclusive May 6 ballot.  The economies of the union are being gripped by political
confusion as policy makers fail to develop solutions to address
Greece’s worsening financial crisis, El-Erian said. Investors
pricing in both a “policy risk premium” and a “complexity
risk premium” is adding to volatility in markets.  The euro has lost 3.7 percent against the  U.S. dollar  this
month and almost $4 trillion has been wiped from equity markets
amid concern the turmoil in Greece may weigh on other members of
the economic union.  European Leadership  Germany, France, Italy and  Spain , the union’s four biggest
economies, need to take the lead in solving the crisis by
creating a smaller currency union that is “less imperfect,”
said El-Erian, a former deputy director of  International
Monetary Fund .  “For Greece there is no first best,” El-Erian said.
“They’re looking at a series of fifth and sixth bests. They
have to focus on which step allows them medium-term viability.”  The euro area’s populations, private creditors, European
partners and the IMF need to work together rather than
separately, which they are doing now, he said.  Yields on U.S. 10-year bonds may drop another 10 basis
points, or 0.10 percentage point, or rise another 30 basis
points, El-Erian said. The benchmark security’s yield rose 1
basis point to 1.73 percent at 9:53 a.m. in  New York .  The likelihood of further easing from the  Federal Reserve ,
continued sluggish growth in the U.S. and continued turmoil in
Europe will impact the bond yield, said El-Erian, who is based
in  Newport Beach , California.  Pimco (BOND)  is a unit of the Munich-based insurer Allianz SE and
managed $1.77 trillion as of March 31, including the $258.7
billion Total Return Fund, according to the company’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  