-- End of Extended Benefits May Lower U.S. Jobless Rate: Economy
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-05-21T15:22:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/end-of-extended-benefits-may-lower-u-s-jobless-rate-economy.html
The declining U.S. jobless rate may
soon get another push downward as Americans lose extended
 unemployment benefits .  From April 7 through May 12, about 370,000 Americans in 23
states stopped getting the benefits, which provide payments for
as long as 99 weeks, according to  estimates  from the National
Employment Law Project. People in the remaining six states and
the  District of Columbia  who still qualify may lose eligibility
by September, bringing the program to an end, the report showed.  Some recipients who lose their benefits may decide to
accept jobs they view as less than ideal. Others may give up
looking for work and drop out of the labor force, eliminating
them from the ranks of the jobless. Those outcomes may trim the
unemployment rate by 0.1 percentage point to 0.2 point in the
next few months, according to economists Dean Maki at Barclays
and Michael Feroli at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “The  unemployment rate  would be the place where the effect
is likely to show up most,” said Maki, chief U.S. economist at
Barclays in New York and a former economist at the  Federal
Reserve . “It may put some modest downward pressure” on the
jobless rate.  People may also curtail their spending once they lose this
source of income, resulting in slower economic growth that
weighs on hiring. Taking these people into account, Maki
estimates the drop in unemployment may be closer to 0.1 point.
Those continuing to search for a job after payments expire will
still be counted among the unemployed.  Losing Eligibility  Not all states were eligible for the federally funded
program. For a state to qualify, unemployment over any three-
month period must average at least 10 percent more than the same
period in any of the previous three years. The reason so many
states have lost their eligibility is that their jobless rates
have come down enough to push them out of the program.  California,  Florida ,  Illinois ,  Texas  were among the eight
states that no longer qualified as of May 12, according to the
NELP study.  New York  will probably lose its eligibility in June
and  New Jersey  may follow a month later.  Damian Zuniga is among those in California who is taking
any opportunity that comes along. He lost his job cleaning
swimming pools at his cousin’s company in the fall of 2010, and
his $445-a-week unemployment insurance payments ran out on March
10. The San Francisco resident, who served in Operation Desert
Storm in  Iraq  in 1990, is living with a friend and is behind on
child support for his daughter.  Temp Agencies  After exhausting his benefits, he signed up with four
temporary-help agencies, and has been falling in and out of the
ranks of the unemployed because the two jobs he got in March and
April didn’t last. He accepted doing “the kind of work I did 15
years ago when I got out of the military,” and is hoping more
temp assignments roll in while he looks for a permanent
position.  “I had to take something,” said Zuniga, 44. “It’s
frustrating when you need to work right now and all you can do
is play the waiting game.”  A drop in unemployment may help President  Barack Obama ’s
re-election chances in November. Only one president since World
War II,  Ronald Reagan , has been re-elected with a jobless rate
above 6 percent. Reagan won a second term in 1984 with 7.2
percent unemployment in the month of the election, after the
rate had fallen almost three percentage points in the previous
18 months.  A declining  labor force  helped to reduce the unemployment
rate by 0.1 point to a three-year low of 8.1 percent in April,
according to data from the Labor Department. It has dropped by
0.9 point over 12 months. In order to be counted as jobless and
receive government assistance, a person must be in the labor
force and actively searching for work.  Maximum Impact  Feroli, chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan in New York, said
the maximum effect on the jobless rate is based on one of two
extreme scenarios: either everyone who lost extended benefits in
April and May takes any job that comes along, or they all exit
the labor force.  “Then we’re talking about a 0.2-point reduction in the
unemployment rate,” he said. “It is not nothing.”  The drop “could be spread out over May, June and possibly
July,” said Feroli, a former Fed economist. The end of extended
benefits “could cut all sorts of ways,” so the “net result is
open to debate,” he said. Still, “the most high-profile impact
would be on the unemployment rate.”  Fed Discussions  A drop in the number of benefits recipients may also figure
in Fed discussions on the most effective policy prescription.
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond President  Jeffrey Lacker , who
projects the Fed will need to raise  interest rates  before late
2014, is among those who say extended benefits have kept
unemployment higher than it would have been.  “As beneficial as such insurance programs can be, they
also can affect the incentives to look for work or accept
employment offers,” Lacker said this month during a speech in
Greensboro,  North Carolina . “Thus, they may actually increase
the unemployment rate and the duration of unemployment,” he
said, citing studies that showed anywhere from 0.8 percentage
point to 1.7 percentage points of the jump in joblessness may
have been caused by the extension of benefits.  Such views contrast with those of policy makers like
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who has said some of the recent slump
in the jobless rate may be reversed as discouraged workers, who
have left the labor force and are therefore no longer counted as
unemployed, resume the job hunt in an improving economy.  Goldman’s View  Andrew Tilton , a senior economist at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., estimates that the exhaustion of extended benefits in
April and May will push the jobless rate down by less than 0.1
point.  “There has been an improvement in the availability of
jobs,” Tilton said. “In a better labor market, people losing
their benefits would be more likely to look and to find a job,
and less likely to simply drop out.”  Jesse Rothstein, a former chief economist for the Labor
Department, is less optimistic. The job market is “roughly
stagnating this year,” Rothstein said. “The constraint right
now is there aren’t enough jobs.”  For that reason, he is more concerned about the “fiscal
multiplier” effect of the loss of benefits, he said. Every
dollar of unemployment insurance spending generates about $1.50
of spending, so the expiration of extended benefits this month
and last amounts to taking out about $200 million a week from
the economy, or $10 billion for the year, he estimated.  “The biggest effect is a lot of people will just have less
money,” said Rothstein, associate professor of Public Policy
and Economics at the University of  California , Berkeley.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  