-- England Heads to Second Cricket Test Unchanged After Opening Win
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-05-22T01:09:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/england-defeats-west-indies-by-5-wickets-in-first-cricket-test.html
Top-ranked  England  will start
preparations for the second cricket Test against West Indies
tomorrow as it seeks to wrap up a series victory after winning
the opening match.  Selectors named an unchanged squad following England’s
five-wicket triumph at Lord’s in London yesterday. The Second
Test starts May 25 at  Trent Bridge  in Nottingham.  “There were some very impressive performances across all
five days of the first Test both from individuals and the team
as a whole and we were made to work hard for the first victory
of the summer,” head selector Geoff Miller said in a statement.  England needs to win the three-match series to stay atop
the International Cricket Council’s Test  rankings  ahead of  South
Africa , which it will host in a best-of-three contest in July
and August. West Indies hasn’t  won an away Test  in a country
other than bottom-ranked Bangladesh since winning in South
Africa in December 2007.  Alastair Cook  and  Ian Bell  shared a 132-run partnership
yesterday to guide England to the victory after the home team
had slumped to 57-4 following the early dismissals of Jonathan Trott and  Kevin Pietersen , both of whom were out for 13.  England, which started the final day on 10-2, finished on
193-5. Opening batsman Cook fell two runs short of the 191
victory target, caught on 79 by Kirk Edwards off West Indies
captain Darren Sammy. Bell finished 63 not out.  England lost captain  Andrew Strauss  and nightwatchman James Anderson at the end of day four. Kemar Roach finished with 3-60,
having taken both of those wickets and that of Trott. Pietersen
was caught by Denesh Ramdin off Shannon Gabriel.  Classy Chase  “Whenever you’re chasing there’s a bit of pressure so it
was an outstanding effort from Cook and Bell,” Strauss said in
a news conference. “They played in a very classy manner. It’s
been a tough Test match and we’ve had to work very hard.”  West Indies was restricted to 243 runs in its first innings
as England bowler  Stuart Broad  took 7-72. England replied with
398 before the Caribbean team made 345 in its second innings.  Broad was named man of the match after claiming career-best
match figures of 11-165, becoming the third player to score a
century, take five wickets in an innings and 10 wickets in a
match at Lord’s, the so-called home of cricket.  “The most important thing was getting that victory,”
Broad said. “Any cricketer will say the same, score a hundred,
take a five-for or a 10-for and lose, it means nothing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in  London  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  