-- Enron Ex-CEO Seeks Retrial on ‘New Evidence,’ Lawyer Says
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-05-21T21:24:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/enron-ex-ceo-seeks-retrial-on-new-evidence-lawyer-says.html
Former Enron Corp. Chief Executive
Officer  Jeffrey Skilling , now serving a 24-year prison sentence
for misleading his company’s investors, intends to seek a
retrial, his lawyer said.  “Mr. Skilling intends to file a motion for a new trial
based on newly discovered evidence,’’  Daniel Petrocelli ,
Skilling’s lead attorney, said in a filing last week in federal
court in Houston. The filing didn’t give details of the nature
of the new evidence, and Petrocelli didn’t immediately respond
today to requests for comment.  U.S. District Judge Sim Lake in Houston, who presided over
Skilling’s trial, set a June 7 hearing to discuss a defense
request for more time to file the request for a retrial.  Skilling, 58, was convicted by a Houston jury in 2006 of
misleading investors about the true financial condition of
Enron. He was also convicted of lying to auditors and insider
trading. He’s in a federal prison in Englewood,  Colorado .  Enron, once the world’s largest energy trader, plunged into
bankruptcy in December 2001 after revelations that it was using
off-balance-sheet vehicles to hide billions of dollars in losses
and inflate the company’s stock price. More than 5,000 jobs and
$2 billion in employee retirement funds were wiped out by
Enron’s collapse. Investors sued to recover more than
$60 billion in losses.  Chairman’s Death  Kenneth Lay , Enron’s founder and chairman, was convicted of
leading the fraud alongside Skilling. Lay’s conviction was
erased when he died six weeks after the verdict, before he had a
chance to appeal.  Skilling has been challenging his conviction for five
years. The U.S. Supreme Court agreed that Skilling had been
convicted, at least in part, on an improper legal theory. The
high court sent his case to the federal appeals court in  New
Orleans  for further review.  The appellate court in turn upheld the verdicts, finding
that evidence against him was sufficient to have convicted him
regardless of the improper legal theory.  The case is U.S. v. Skilling, 4:04-cr-0025, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at  