-- Merkel Heads for Debt Showdown With Hollande at EU Summit
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-05-22T11:11:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/merkel-and-hollande-head-for-a-showdown-on-debt-at-eu-summit.html
Germany and  France , the biggest euro
economies, are headed for a showdown at tomorrow’s European
Union summit over their views on how to stem a debt crisis that
threatens the single currency’s survival.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said she won’t shy away
from disagreeing with French President  Francois Hollande  at the
summit in Brussels over dinner at 7 p.m., the next major
appointment of leaders seeking to allay concerns that Greece may
quit the euro, putting Spain and  Italy  at risk as well.  Good cooperation “doesn’t exclude differing positions,”
Merkel told reporters yesterday in Chicago during a meeting of
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. “These may very well
arise in the context of the European discussions.”  While Franco-German collaboration has been a cornerstone of
post-World War II policy making, Merkel and Hollande, France’s
first Socialist president in almost two decades, have gotten off
to a rocky start in a relationship that needs to work to spur
economic growth and prevent  Greece  from leaving the euro area.  President  Barack Obama , facing re-election in November, has
prodded his European counterparts by highlighting the stakes. He
hosted a Group of Eight meeting near  Washington  followed by the
NATO summit in Chicago.  “What happens in Greece has an impact here in the  United
States ,” Obama told reporters yesterday. “Businesses are more
hesitant to invest if they see a lot of uncertainty looming
across the Atlantic because they’re not sure whether that’s
going to mean a further global slowdown.”  Euro’s Decline  The euro has lost 3.3 percent against the  U.S. dollar  this
month and almost $4 trillion has been wiped from equity markets
amid concerns over Greece.  Greece is preparing for June 17 elections, following an
inconclusive May 6 ballot.  Spain , which has the euro region’s
third-largest budget shortfall, revised its 2011 deficit upward
-- even as its borrowing costs approached levels that prompted
bailouts in Greece, Ireland and Portugal.  Hollande has pledged to blunt the German-led austerity
drive in  Europe . He told reporters he wants to avoid conflict,
though he intends to discuss joint euro-area bonds and put
growth and stimulus spending at the heart of this week’s summit.  “Everything will be on the table,” he said. “All the
tools, all the proposals will be welcomed and I am not preparing
this informal summit with my government to create conflict.”  Dodging Conflict  Acknowledging the topic’s sensitivity, he declined to
discuss euro-wide bonds before the EU gathering of government
heads “because I don’t want to anger anyone before we talk
about it directly on Wednesday.”  Underscoring Franco-German differences, a government
spokesman in Berlin told reporters today joint euro-area debt
issuance probably won’t be discussed at the summit.  Germany  opposes joint euro bonds, saying the differences in
bond yields between euro countries are incentives for weaker
nations to overhaul their economies and boost competitiveness.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development,
the Paris-based grouping of the world’s 34 richest market
economies, today threw its weight behind commonly issued bonds.  In its semi-annual report, OECD Chief Economist Pier Carlo Padoan said Europe’s fiscal compact should be partnered by the
issuance of jointly guaranteed bonds to help recapitalize banks
and increase resources available to the European Investment Bank
to fund infrastructure projects.  “Such moves could pave the way to a broader issuance of
euro bonds,” Padoan said.  Merkel’s Isolation  No crisis solution can work without Merkel, who heads
Europe’s largest economy. Germany contributes the most of any
country to the EU’s financial backstops and bailouts for Greece,
Ireland and  Portugal .  “Germany is likely to insist that the highly indebted and
uncompetitive economies most affected by the debt crisis
continue to reduce public spending and implement structural
reforms to make labor and product markets more flexible,”
Martin Koehring, an economist at the Economist Intelligence
Unit, wrote in a report today. “In the view of the German
government, supported by the German central bank, the
mutualisation of debt at this stage could create moral hazard.”  Merkel, whose approach to the crisis has helped make her
Germany’s most popular politician before elections next year,
faces growing pressure among G-8 leaders to ease up on her
austerity-first policy after three years of the crisis.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  has urged European
leaders to make contingency plans for a Greek exit from the euro
and defended his right to speak about the dangers posed to the
single currency, even if Britain isn’t part of it.  “This affects us -- 40 percent of Britain’s exports go to
euro-zone countries,” Cameron told reporters in  Chicago .
“Staying silent on the problems would actually be more
dangerous than speaking out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  