-- Merkel Tightens Grip on Energy Overhaul as Progress Lags
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-05-21T10:33:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/merkel-tightens-grip-on-energy-overhaul-as-progress-lags.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  is
tightening her grip on the biggest energy overhaul in the
country’s history, assigning a party enforcer to speed the
transition amid signs her 12-month-old policy shift has stalled.  Peter Altmaier, the chief whip and deputy floor leader of
Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union , tomorrow is set to take the
environment minister post. The following day he’ll begin
negotiating with leaders of Germany’s states at a meeting with
Merkel after they rejected a government bill in the upper house
that would have cut solar-power subsidies by a record this year.  “The German energy transformation is seriously lagging
behind,” Lutz Mez, a political scientist focused on  energy
policy  at Berlin’s Free University, said in a telephone
interview. “The government sowed insecurity when it comes to
supporting renewables with its solar aid cuts and failed to
boost  energy efficiency . Peter Altmaier will have to come up
with fresh solutions very quickly.”  One year after Merkel abandoned her support for atomic
power in favor of shifting to renewable sources in response to
the tsunami and nuclear disaster at Fukushima, she’s taking
greater control of the historic switch planned for  Europe ’s
biggest energy market.  Altmaier said via Twitter on May 18 that he wouldn’t make a
public statement before he takes the new job.  Altmaier ’Unbiased’  That the nomination of Altmaier brings the energy plan
closer to the chancellery is “undisputed and urgently
necessary,” Georg Nuesslein, an energy spokesman for the
 Christian Social Union , the CDU’s Bavarian sister party, said by
telephone. “It’s an advantage that Altmaier enters the ministry
unbiased as there are many different interests at play.”  Germany is set to miss its target to build 10 gigawatts of
offshore wind farms by 2020 amid delays in connecting the
turbines to the  power grid , the wind industry has said.  EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE) , the country’s biggest utilities, have
threatened to halt investment unless the delays are resolved.
They’re also refusing to build new gas-fired generators, deemed
key by the government to back up the fluctuating renewables, as
the fuel’s rising cost and the specter of Europe’s second
recession in three years threatens to wipe out potential
returns.  Altmaier, 53, and a regular user of  Twitter , will be in
charge of plans to shutter the country’s remaining nine nuclear
reactors by 2022, build offshore wind farms that will cover an
area six times the size of  New York  City and erect  power lines 
that could stretch from  London  to Baghdad.  Solarworld Versus Consumers  In doing so, he has to balance the interests of companies
such as  Solarworld AG (SWV) , the country’s biggest solar-panel maker,
with those of consumers, whose power bills may increase as
renewables comprise a greater share of production. He also faces
calls to solve delays in connecting sea-based  wind turbines  to
the power grid, find ways to store the fluctuating renewable
energy output and soften planned cuts to solar subsidies.  “The energy transformation is a societal challenge and an
important task on whose successful implementation hinges much
for consumers, the economy and above all the environment,”
Altmaier told reporters in Berlin on May 16, as he was named to
the post.  Altmaier succeeds Norbert Roettgen, who was fired by Merkel
the same day after leading her CDU to its worst-ever result in
 Germany ’s most populous state. Before the dismissal, Merkel
talked to industry officials including Hildegard Mueller, the
head of the BDEW utility lobby, who complained that Roettgen
didn’t listen to her over the energy transition, the best-
selling Bild newspaper reported May 18, without saying where it
got the information.  State Leaders Pressuring  A close confidante of Merkel, according to Bild, Altmaier
is facing calls to give greater support to the solar industry
amid pressure from state leaders.  His portfolio changes are “an opportunity to link the
nuclear exit to restructuring the solar industry and offensively
develop solutions for that,” the Mitteldeutsche Zeitnung
newspaper cited Reiner Haseloff, the CDU prime minister of
Saxony-Anhalt state, as saying in its May 18 edition.  State governors including Haseloff voted on May 11 to
renegotiate a bill backed by Merkel and Roettgen that would have
cut solar subsidies, saying the move threatened thousands of
jobs in the world’s biggest solar market by installed capacity.
The bill was sent to a parliamentary panel for arbitration.  Green Concerns  “I’m concerned that we as the world’s fourth-biggest
economy are failing to move forward with the energy
transformation,” Cem Oezdemir, the co-leader of the  Green
Party , told ZDF television on May 18. Altmaier should take back
the planned cuts to solar subsidies “so that the industry has a
chance to adjust,” he said.  Germany has boosted the share of renewables in the power
mix to about 20 percent from about 16 percent in 2009. The
number of jobs in the country’s clean- energy industry  rose about
12 percent in two years, to 381,600 in 2011.  “Roettgen has been a strong supporter of the renewable
energy industry and is the advocate of the nuclear exit,”
Claudia Kemfert, the chief energy expert at the Berlin-based DIW
economic institute, said by e-mail. “I hope that  Peter Altmaier 
continues to support this policy course.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  