-- Merkel Pressed to Share German States’ Debt Costs
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-05-22T08:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/merkel-pressed-to-share-german-states-debt-costs-euro-credit.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  is being
pushed by German states to ease their budget squeeze by sharing
borrowing costs, a policy she has opposed in confronting the
financial crisis in the rest of the euro region.  The opposition  Social Democrats  plan to press Merkel on so-
called Deutschland bonds at a meeting on May 24, Norbert Walter- Borjans, finance chief of North Rhine-Westphalia, the nation’s
biggest state, said in an interview. She needs their support to
win parliamentary backing for the tougher European fiscal rules
she championed.  “The parallel between efforts to push euro bonds and
Deutschland bonds is remarkable: the motivation for the push,
the timing and the risks,” Thilo Schaefer, an analyst at the IW
economic institute in Cologne, said by phone. “We know her
position on euro bonds. If states open a new offensive for
Deutschland bonds, then she faces the same pressure from a
different angle.”  German borrowing costs plunged as investors sought a haven
from the doubts that  Greece  can remain in the 17-nation currency
zone. The yields on German two-, five-, 10-and 30-year bonds
have declined to the lowest on record. States have benefited as
well, with five-year debt from North-Rhine Westphalia dropping
to as low as 1.5 percent last week from more than 3 percent in
2011. The federal government pays 0.5 percent to borrow for five
years.  Summit Showdown  Merkel and French President  Francois Hollande  are heading
toward confrontation over joint euro-area borrowing at a meeting
of European Union leaders in Brussels tomorrow, after Hollande
said “everything will be on the table” including euro bonds.  At home, Germany’s opposition-controlled states want Merkel
to agree to a form of shared debt liability with the federal
government to help them meet constitutional budget limits, said
Walter-Borjans. Merkel has said giving euro members that kind of
relief would weaken their resolve to cut debt.  “Joint state-federal bonds in light of the challenges to
the states of implementing the fiscal pact make sense,” Walter-
Borjans said. “Potentially significant savings could be made by
the states in selling German bonds that in turn would help us
fulfill the terms of the pact.”  As throughout the crisis since it first emerged in Greece
in late 2009, Merkel’s response will be shaped by domestic
political considerations. With elections looming in 2013, polls
show that German voters back her demand that  Europe  clamps down
on budget deficits, a provision that won expression in the
fiscal pact signed in March by 25 of 27 Europe Union leaders.  While the pact faces a referendum in Ireland this month and
skepticism from the newly elected French president, Merkel has
to satisfy demands from opposition at home to ensure it passes
both houses in Berlin.  Building Blocs  Merkel enjoys a majority in the lower house, yet her bloc
falls short of the two-thirds needed to pass the legislation.
The upper house is controlled by opposition SPD and Green Party
states. That makes her pledge to pass the fiscal pact and
associated legislation to set up the permanent rescue fund by
the summer recess hostage to an opposition buoyed by success in
state elections this month.  Help for states struggling to comply with terms of
 Germany ’s own constitutional “debt brake” was among a list of
steps outlined by SPD leaders on May 15. While the agreement
gives states until 2020 to balance their budgets, the pact
stipulates that member states run a maximum structural deficit
of 0.5 percent of gross domestic product in the “medium term,”
or as early as 2014. The SPD said it is seeking clarity from the
European Commission.  “We need answers to these pressing questions” in
assessing whether to support the fiscal pact, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, the SPD floor leader who was foreign minister in
Merkel’s first-term government, told reporters.  State Debt  Germany’s 16 states had 531 billion euros ($676 billion) of
debt as of January, about half the federal government’s 1.07
trillion euros, according to the  Finance Ministry  in Berlin. The
sum doesn’t include municipal debt. North Rhine-Westphalia owed
the most, at 130 billion euros, and Saxony’s 9.4 billion euros
was the least.  Merkel said in December that she liked the idea of selling
Deutschland bonds. The proposal commanded support from states,
including Schleswig-Holstein, then ruled by Merkel’s  Christian
Democrats  with the Free Democrats as junior partner, an alliance
mirroring her federal government, which said the plan would help
save 40 million euros.  Yet Bavaria, home to the world’s two-biggest makers of
luxury cars, Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and Audi AG, argued the
measure would weaken budget discipline, an argument Merkel
deploys against euro bonds. In March, Merkel’s chief spokesman,
Steffen Seibert, said she opposed the idea of Deutschland bonds.  “Merkel’s chief counter argument to the proponents of euro
bonds is that selling the debt would remove pressure to stick to
budget pledges, a new moral and financial hazard would spring up
as countries exploit low interest to finance their budgets,”
said IW’s Schaefer. “This argument applies exactly to German
states’ call for Deutschland bonds: Poorer states like Bremen or
Saarland need help but in a way that encourages thrift.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  