-- European Stocks Rebound From Selloff as Carmakers Climb
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-05-21T16:04:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/european-stock-futures-little-changed-ryanair-may-fall.html
European stocks  climbed, rebounding
from last week’s biggest selloff since September, as China’s
pledge to boost growth outweighed concern that  Greece  may be
forced to leave the euro area.  Carmakers paced advancing shares as analysts recommended
 Renault SA (RNO)  and  Fiat SpA. (F)  Barclays Plc rose after saying it plans
to sell its entire $6.1 billion stake in BlackRock Inc.
 Carlsberg A/S (CARLA) , the world’s fourth-biggest brewer, dropped 5.9
percent after ING Groep NV advised investors to sell the stock.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 0.5 percent to 240.17 at
the close in London, recouping some of last week’s 5.2 percent
drop. The  gauge  has lost 12 percent from this year’s high on
March 16, amid mounting concern Greece will fail to implement
austerity pledges and Spanish banks will need to be rescued.  “There is going to be an element of bargain hunting as
investors look to top up their holdings on the basis of slightly
lower prices,” said  Richard Hunter , head of equities at
Hargreaves Lansdown Stockbrokers in  London . “Politically, if
not financially, the markets are kind of back to square one. If
you take a more bottom-up approach, the picture is brighter.”  National benchmark indexes climbed in 12 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 gained 0.7 percent and
Germany’s DAX increased 1 percent, while France’s CAC 40 rose
0.6 percent. Italy’s FTSE MIB lost 0.3 percent as 29 of the
gauge’s companies traded without the right to their latest
dividends.  China Growth  In China, Premier  Wen Jiabao  called for “putting
stabilizing growth in a more important position” and refrained
from mentioning concern about inflation in remarks published
yesterday by the official Xinhua News Agency.  China  may announce
stimulus actions in the near term, according to a front-page
commentary today in the China Securities Journal, published by
Xinhua.  German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble will, for the
first time, discuss the euro at a meeting with his newly
installed French counterpart,  Pierre Moscovici , in Berlin today
as European Union leaders prepare to meet in Brussels on May 23.  Group of Eight leaders on May 19 urged Greece to stay
within the euro area as polls in the country showed a close race
between parties supporting and opposing austerity measures
linked to the EU-led bailout.  “Much of the bad news has already been discounted by the
market, at least for now, but it will certainly make it
difficult for any rallies to the upside to be maintained,” said
Markus Huber, head of German sales trading at ETX Capital in
London. “Overall  market sentiment  remains negative.”  Automakers Advance  Carmakers were among the biggest gainers of the  19 industry
groups  on the Stoxx 600, rebounding from a five-day selloff.
Renault rallied 4.7 percent to 32.02 euros as UBS AG added the
French carmaker to its European “key calls” list.  Fiat climbed 8.6 percent to 3.64 euros in Milan, the
biggest gain in more than two months. Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
upgraded the carmaker to outperform, the equivalent of a buy
recommendation, from market perform with a price estimate of 5
euros. That’s 51 percent above last week’s close.  Barclays rose 2.2 percent to 180 pence after the lender
said it plans to sell its entire holding in BlackRock before the
latest round of Basel rules stops it from counting the holding
as capital.  BlackRock will buy back as much as $1 billion of shares
from Barclays as part of the transaction. The British bank took
the 19.6 percent holding when it sold  Barclays Global Investors 
to BlackRock in December 2009 for about $15.2 billion.  Banco Popolare  Banco Popolare SC (BP)  surged 19 percent to 1.04 euro cents, the
biggest jump since at least July 2007, as analysts from Bank of
America Corp. to Exane BNP Paribas upgraded the shares after
Italy’s fourth-biggest bank said regulatory approval to use
internal risk models boosted its  Tier 1 capital .  Bank of America raised its recommendation for  the bank  to
buy from neutral. Exane upgraded  Banco Popolare ’s shares to
outperform, Societe Generale SA lifted its rating to hold and
Banca IMI SpA upgraded its advice to buy.  Sacyr Vallehermoso SA (SYV)  rallied 11 percent to 1.42 euros in
Madrid. Former Chairman Luis del Rivero finished selling an
additional 3 percent stake in the Spanish builder on May 18,
Expansion reported, citing people in the market it didn’t name.
With the sale, Rivero has offloaded almost his entire holding in
the company, the newspaper said.  Man Group Gains  Man Group Plc (EMG)  gained 4.7 percent to 78.8 pence, recouping
some of last week’s 14 percent slump. The world’s largest
publicly traded hedge fund has agreed to buy FRM Holdings Ltd.,
adding $8 billion of assets invested in other hedge fund
managers as its own stock price sinks.  Man will pay as much as $82.8 million in cash over three
years, depending on the level of assets FRM retains following
the takeover.  Carlsberg dropped 5.9 percent to 458.90 kroner after ING
cut the stock to sell from hold, saying investors have focused
too much on the positive aspects of first quarter earnings.
Threats to the company’s beer-market position in  Russia  remain,
ING said.  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  lost 1.4 percent to 4.51 euros after the
Wall Street Journal reported the bank’s U.K. unit lost 200
million pounds ($317 million) in deposits on May 18, citing
Steve Pateman, head of U.K. banking for the Spanish lender.  The withdrawals represented about 0.2 percent of
Santander’s total customer deposits in the U.K., Pateman told
the newspaper. Deposits totaled 120.1 billion pounds at the end
of 2011, the WSJ reported yesterday, without saying where it got
the information.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  dropped 1.2 percent to
4.89 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  