-- Even California Shows Halo With Insatiable Demand: Muni
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-05-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/even-california-shows-a-halo-with-insatiable-demand-muni-credit.html
California ’s swelling budget deficit
is proving no match for investors desperate to boost returns
with municipal  interest rates  close to 45-year lows.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold debt of California
issuers instead of top-rated local-government bonds matched a
three-year low on May 15, according to Bloomberg Fair Value
data. The day before, Governor  Jerry Brown  proposed cutting
state workers’ pay 5 percent to save money after the state’s
spending gap grew 71 percent since January.  Across the U.S., taxpayers are benefiting as the most money
in three years floods into muni mutual funds while coupon and
principal payments are set to exceed issuance through August.
The flow is keeping the yield penalty on Alabama municipalities
from growing even after state lawmakers failed last week to help
bankrupt Jefferson County bridge a budget gap, said Tom Barnett,
finance director of Birmingham, the county seat.  “There’s a shortage of bonds out there,” said Paul Mansour, managing director at Hartford, Connecticut-based
Conning, which oversees about $10 billion of municipal bonds. At
the same time, “there’s a rush for yield, and it’s masking the
differences” in issuers’ credit quality, he said.  Buyers are seeking riskier credits as the supply of new
bonds dwindles while defaults in the $3.7 trillion market for
local debt have slowed. Twenty-six municipal issuers have
defaulted for the first time in 2012, half the number for the
same period of 2011, according to Municipal Market Advisors data
through May 15.  Haven Market  New municipal bonds may remain scarce for several months.
Coupon and principal payments available to reinvest will total
$113 billion from June through August, outstripping new issuance
by about $20 billion, according to Chris Mauro, head U.S.
municipal strategist at  RBC Capital Markets  in New York.  Investors looking for a haven from  Europe ’s debt crisis
have added about $12 billion to U.S. muni funds this year, the
best annual start since 2009, Lipper US Fund Flows data show.  That’s helped keep local-government interest rates close to
the lowest since the 1960s, even after they climbed last week.
Twenty-year general-obligation bonds yield 3.75 percent after
touching 3.6 percent in January, the lowest since 1967,
according to a Bond Buyer  index .  “Taking more risk to get higher yields may be a strategy
that plays out well over the next six to 12 months, but
typically environments where that takes place don’t end well,”
Chris Alwine, head of municipal funds at Vanguard Group Inc.,
which manages $127.5 billion in municipal assets, said in an
interview in New York.  Economy Risk  One risk for buyers of weaker credits is that economic
growth may falter, putting more pressure on cities that are
still rebounding from the 18-month recession that ended in 2009,
said Mansour.  “If another recession hits in two or three years, their
choices are going to get even grimmer,” he said. “That’s what
scares us.”  Most economists project growth to continue. The  U.S.
economy  will expand 2.3 percent this year, compared with 1.7
percent in 2011, a Bloomberg survey of banks and securities
companies shows.  The extra yield on issues from California, the lowest-rated
U.S. state by  Standard & Poor’s , fell to 0.82 percentage point
last week, matching the smallest since December 2008, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. On May 14, Brown said his state’s
deficit had grown to $15.7 billion from $9.2 billion in January.
The state’s debt has returned 4.7 percent this year, compared
with 4.1 percent for the broader muni market, S&P index data
show.  Shielding Alabama  The appetite for risk is also cushioning Alabama
municipalities, which had already been paying an extra 0.25
percentage point to borrow because of the proximity to Jefferson
County, said Barnett in Birmingham. The county in November filed
the biggest municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history.  The Alabama House last week refused to consider allowing
the county to raise taxes, which may lead to further service
cuts and more missed bond payments. The development won’t force
up yields, Barnett said.  “With nominal levels where they are, everybody is
attracted to any extra yield they can get,” he said. “That’s
working to bring down any penalty for Alabama paper.”  Rockland County,  New York , is also drawing demand, even
after having its rating cut three levels on May 10 by Moody’s
Investors Service because it hadn’t closed a deficit of more
than $40 million.  The county of about 312,000 across the  Hudson River  from
Westchester County has had its bond grade cut twice this year by
a total of five levels, to Baa3, the lowest investment grade.  A Rockland bond maturing in February 2017 traded at an
average yield of 1.7 percent on May 16, little changed from the
week before, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bonds rated BBB have earned 6.4 percent this year, compared
with 2.5 percent on AAA and 4.1 percent for the total municipal
market, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  The bond shortage is “granting broad salvation to many of
the market’s sinners,” Matt Fabian, managing director at
Concord, Massachusetts-based MMA, wrote in a May 14 report.  Following are pending sales:  MASSACHUSETTS is set to issue $350 million of general-
obligation bonds as soon as this week to help finance capital
projects. The debt will price competitively. The longest
maturity for the bonds is 2042, according to offering documents.
S&P rates Massachusetts AA+, second-highest. (Updated May 21)  VIRGINIA TRANSPORTATION BOARD plans to borrow $600 million
of revenue debt as soon as this month via competitive bid.
Proceeds will help finance capital projects, according to
documents from the board’s April 18 meeting. The bonds will
mature annually from 2013 through 2037. (Updated May 18)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  