-- Evonik Owners Push Ahead With Share Sale After Business Improved
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-05-21T16:24:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/evonik-share-sale-timing-under-review-as-market-risks-persist.html
Evonik Industries AG,  Germany ’s
second-largest chemical company, will push ahead with plans for
an initial public offering on optimism an improved outlook for
profit will eclipse turmoil in equity markets.  The board of trustees of RAG Stiftung, which owns 74.99
percent of Evonik, opted to proceed with a share sale following
a meeting today although it may reconsider the timing, it said
in a statement. The company said in March it was aiming for an
IPO in the first half. CVC Capital Partners Ltd. also plans to
sell its 25.01 percent stake and end a four-year involvement in
the maker of additives and specialty plastics used in car parts.  Evonik raised its full-year profit and sales forecast
earlier this month, benefiting from increased demand for
ingredients and additives used in drugs,  animal feed  and
cosmetics. Evonik, which is a candidate to join Germany’s
benchmark DAX index, postponed IPO plans from last year as did
 Siemens AG (SIE) ’s Osram lighting business and  Rheinmetall AG (RHM) ’s car-
parts unit after the European debt crisis led to volatility on
the markets.  “Together with Evonik and CVC we want to push on with
preparation for the IPO in light of the economic perspective and
the strong interest in Evonik from the  capital market ,” RAG
Chairman Wilhelm Bonse-Geuking said in the release. “We have to
keep an eye on the not unimportant and growing risks.”  When RAG and CVC first proposed the IPO last year, they
planned to raise 4 billion euros ($5.1 billion) to 7 billion
euros in a first tranche, valuing Evonik at as much as 20
billion euros, people familiar with the matter said at the time.
That would make Evonik the biggest IPO in more than a decade
after  Deutsche Post AG (DPW)  raised 5.84 billion euros in November
2000.  Standard & Poor’s  upgraded Evonik one level to BBB+ on May
9 as the company cuts debt. That’s three levels above non-
investment grade.  Rheinmetall, a German defense company, slumped 13 percent
last week on concern about the planned share sale of its car-
parts unit, which has been rescheduled for the first half. The
DAX index has fallen 7 percent this month as political deadlock
in  Greece  boosts the likelihood of the country’s exit from the
euro.  Evonik posted sales of 14.5 billion euros and earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization of 2.77
billion euros last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  