-- Ex-Baker & McKenzie Lawyer Pleads Guilty in Client Theft
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-05-21T15:21:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/ex-baker-mckenzie-lawyer-pleads-guilty-in-client-theft-2-.html
Martin Weisberg, a former partner at
law firm Baker & McKenzie LLP, pleaded guilty to stealing from a
client’s account and taking part in a $55 million securities
fraud scheme.  Weisberg, 61, entered his plea to  money laundering  and
conspiracy charges today in federal court in  Brooklyn , New York.
He was indicted in 2008 on  wire fraud  and money laundering
charges for taking money from an escrow account established on
behalf of a corporate client.  Weisberg, who resigned from Baker in October 2007, was
accused of placing $30 million in an interest-bearing account
and wiring out about $1.3 million without the client’s
knowledge, according to U.S. prosecutors. He concealed the theft
by telling the unidentified client that the bank holding the
account didn’t produce monthly statements, while sending letters
to the client with false balances, the U.S. said.  The theft-related charges were filed after Weisberg was
charged with conspiracy in 2007 over his role in a stock fraud.  The government said that Weisberg conspired with Xybernaut
Corp.and Ramp Corp. executives in a conspiracy involving short-
selling. Prosecutors said the defendants caused Xybernaut, a
Fairfax, Virginia-based maker of wearable computers for aircraft
mechanics and telephone linemen, and Ramp, a bankrupt developer
of health-care software, to issue hundreds of millions of
dollars of heavily discounted shares through offshore entities
between 2001 and 2005.  Weisberg faces maximum sentences of 10 years on the money-
laundering count and five years on the conspiracy charge.
Weisberg, who earned his law degree from Northwestern University
Law School in  Chicago , also may have to forfeit proceeds and
lose his law license, according to prosecutors.  The case is U.S. v. Saltsman, 07-cr-641, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  