-- Ex-Harrisburg Receiver Must Testify at Replacement’s Hearing
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-05-21T17:37:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/ex-harrisburg-receiver-must-testify-at-replacement-s-hearing-1-.html
The former receiver for Harrisburg,
 Pennsylvania , who quit, citing “political and ethical
crosswinds,” must testify at a hearing on his proposed
replacement, a judge ruled today.  Pennsylvania appeals court Judge Bonnie Leadbetter ordered
David Unkovic to appear at the May 24 hearing on the man
proposed to replace him, William B. Lynch, a retired U.S. Air
Force major general.  The decision is a partial victory for Governor Tom Corbett,
who appointed Lynch. In the same order, Leadbetter denied a
request by opponents of the receivership to halt state control
over Harrisburg’s finances until Unkovic testified about why he
quit.  Leadbetter also said that Unkovic’s testimony will be
“strictly limited to matters relevant to the appointment of
Major General William B. Lynch as receiver.”  Unkovic was appointed under a state law that allows a
receiver to prepare and implement a fiscal recovery plan.  Elected officials in Harrisburg disagree about the
Unkovic’s initial plan to end the insolvent city’s crisis. That
plan would be implemented by Lynch, should his appointment be
approved by Leadbetter.  Before he resigned, Unkovic proposed selling or leasing
city assets, including a trash-to-energy plant that doesn’t
generate enough revenue to cover more than $300 million in debt.  The debt is one of the main reasons Harrisburg, the state’s
capital, is insolvent. In March, the city of 49,500 announced it
would miss $5.27 million in bond payments. It earlier defaulted
on payments it guaranteed on the waste-to-energy incinerator.  The receiver case is TD Bank NA v. Harrisburg Authority,
2010-CV-11737, Court of Common Pleas, Dauphin County,
Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  