-- Ex-UBS Trader Fined $2 Million on Unauthorized Trading
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-05-21T18:02:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/ex-ubs-trader-fined-2-million-on-unauthorized-trading.html
The former head of a trading desk at
 UBS AG (UBSN) ’s wealth-management unit in London must pay 1.25 million
pounds ($2 million) for unauthorized trading after he lost his
challenge to the penalty levied by the U.K. finance regulator.  Sachin Karpe is also accused by the Financial Services
Authority of moving money between client accounts to hide losses
from unauthorized foreign-exchange trades and helping Indian
billionaire Anil Ambani’s company invest more than $250 million
in an offshore trust in violation of Indian law. The FSA fine
against him was upheld by a London tribunal today.  Karpe, who was fired from his post overseeing accounts for
Indian clients on the bank’s Asia-2 desk, helped Ambani’s
Reliance ADAG group of companies use an investment fund
incorporated in Mauritius to evade Indian securities laws and
then concealed the investment from UBS’s compliance department,
according to the ruling. Karpe only challenged the fine by the
regulator, not a lifetime ban from working in the U.K.
financial-services industry.  “We have taken into account the scale of the losses that
resulted from Mr. Karpe’s carrying out of unauthorized
transactions,” the three-judge panel ruled. “We infer that the
whole motivation was to benefit him indirectly and in the long
term by obtaining new clients through his apparent prestige,
increasing funds under management and thereby advancing his
career and increasing his bonuses.”  ‘Very Disappointed’  Lawyers for Karpe, who according to the ruling now works as
a consultant for the Indian investment firm Altamount, submitted
evidence that the fine would cause financial hardship.  While he is “very disappointed” the tribunal didn’t
consider all the evidence he put forward, Karpe said in a
statement he won’t appeal the decision. He didn’t gain
personally and his actions were “largely to assist clients and
as a result of the nature of business at UBS, as well as the
then-prevalent compliance culture” at the bank.  Ambani’s Reliance Group said in an e-mailed statement that
the decision relates to regulatory action “against former
employees of UBS, and not against any Reliance entities or Mr.
Ambani.”  Karpe and his desk made as many as 50 unauthorized trades a
day over a two-year period from 39 client accounts, according to
the FSA. Over a one-year period from 2006 to 2007, he placed
2,811 unauthorized foreign-exchange trades from one client’s
account with values of $11.3 billion, 4.3 billion pounds, 1.9
billion euros ($2.4 billion), 105 billion Japanese yen ($1.3
billion), and 4.9 billion Swiss francs ($5.2 billion), according
to the ruling.  Personal Account  The trades were discovered after a UBS whistle-blower
reported a $5,000 transfer from a customer account to Karpe’s
personal bank account in 2007, the FSA said. The bank began a
review that led to Karpe’s firing in early 2008.  UBS in 2009 paid an 8 million pound-fine and agreed to
reimburse customers $42.4 million over the losses he caused.
Laila Karan, a former client adviser on the desk who was fired
for gross misconduct and is also a defendant in the case, must
pay a 75,000-pound fine for not notifying the bank about Karpe’s
actions.  “The conduct of Ms. Karan and Mr. Karpe was in clear
breach of UBS policies and procedures,” the Zurich-based bank
said in a statement. “We are satisfied with the outcome.”  Karan said in a separate statement that while there was no
willful wrongdoing or gain on her part, she accepts that she
didn’t scrutinize all documents before signing them.  “I believe my one mistake was to place too much trust in
my boss, a very senior banker at UBS who was revered by all at
the bank up until the time of the internal investigation, which
incidentally found that I personally had not breached standards
of integrity.”  No Controls  At the hearing, Karpe’s lawyer argued he didn’t circumvent
any rules because the UBS unit had no controls in place to
prevent unauthorized trading in client accounts.  “The compliance and compliance monitoring failings on the
part of UBS may have created an environment within which staff
of UBS could get away with wrongdoing,” the tribunal ruled.
“But that does not excuse the wrongdoing.”  John Pottage, the former chief executive of the wealth-
management unit, last month won his case against the FSA, which
alleged he didn’t do enough to prevent the unauthorized trades.
The regulator sought to fine him 100,000 pounds, arguing he
didn’t ensure the division had sufficient controls. He is now a
senior executive at the bank’s headquarters in Zurich.  The case focused on risk-management failures at the bank
years before Kweku Adoboli, a former trader at UBS’s investment
bank, was accused of causing $2.3 billion in losses through
unauthorized trading. Adoboli, who was charged last year with
fraud and false accounting tied to the loss, has pleaded not
guilty. He is scheduled to be tried in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 