-- Mexico Peso Rises Most in Three Weeks as Growth Outlook Improves
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-05-21T21:20:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/mexico-peso-rises-as-china-boosts-global-economic-growth-outlook.html
Mexico ’s peso rose after  China ’s
government said it will focus on bolstering growth, fueling
confidence in global expansion after the Latin American’s
country’s policy makers boosted their economic forecasts.  The peso appreciated the most in May, rising 0.9 percent to
13.6936 per dollar at 4 p.m. in Mexico City, extending its
advance this year to 1.8 percent after the worst performance
among major Latin American currencies in 2011.  The currency rose today along with commodities after
Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao pledged over the weekend to put more
emphasis on bolstering growth, adding optimism to a global
outlook that has been battered by  Europe ’s worsening debt
crisis. Mexico’s gross domestic product will expand 3.7 percent
this year, according to a survey of economists released today by
Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit. The economy was expected to
expand 3.5 percent this year in the previous bi-weekly survey.  “Mexico is doing well, and if there’s commentary from
China that it’s going to boost stimulus, that should help take
off some pressure from the idea that everything is bad,” Ramon Cordova , a currency trader at Banco Base SA in San Pedro Garza
Garcia, Mexico, said in a phone interview.  Gross domestic product in Mexico grew 4.6 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier, the fastest pace in six
quarters, the national statistics institute said last week.
Central bankers in Mexico, which sends 80 percent of its exports
to the U.S., boosted last week their growth estimate for this
year to as much as 4.25 percent from no more than 4 percent
previously.  U.S. payrolls will rise 188,000 a month on average in 2012,
up from a February projection of 170,000, according to the
results of a survey by the National Association for Business
Economics issued today in  Washington .  “If the  U.S. economy  continues giving us surprises in its
capacity to enhance its rate of growth, that certainly would
support Mexico,” central bank Governor Agustin Carstens said in
an interview May 18. “There is the possibility of seeing higher
rates of growth in Mexico if that happens.”  The yield on Mexican local-currency bonds due in 2024 fell
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 6.21 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price increased
0.10 centavo to 133.03 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  