-- MF Global Granted Corzine $5.4 Million in Stock Options
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-05-21T18:18:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/mf-global-granted-corzine-5-4-million-in-stock-options-1-.html
MF Global Holdings Ltd. awarded
former Chief Executive Officer  Jon Corzine  about $8.5 million in
compensation last year, including almost $5.4 million of  stock
options  in the bankrupt brokerage firm.  Corzine’s pay of about $3.1 million included a bonus of
$1.3 million, according to a filing by MF Global in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan. Stock options in bankrupt
companies are almost always worthless.  Corzine, a former co-chief executive officer of Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., worked at MF Global for 20 months before
quitting amid regulatory probes after the firm filed the eighth-
largest bankruptcy in U.S. history and brokerage customers’
accounts were frozen. The parent company still is trying to
trace $1 billion that vanished into its brokerage, lawyer  Brett
Miller  told a judge on May 18.  The brokerage, MF Global Inc., is liquidating separately to
try to repay customers who are estimated to be out
$1.6 billion. Corzine has said he doesn’t know where the missing
money is.  Corzine, a former governor of  New Jersey  who helped run
Goldman Sachs from 1994 to 1999, sought to transform MF Global
into a mid-size investment bank after arriving there in March
2010. He increased the firm’s risk and used its own money to
trade, including investments in European sovereign debt.  Severance Conditions  Corzine was in line for $12.1 million in severance and
prorated bonus and benefits payments if he left for “good
reason” or was fired “without cause,” according to an MF
Global proxy statement filed last year. Of that, $9 million was
to have been severance payments, according to the filing, which
said the company’s compensation committee found that Corzine’s
performance had been “exemplary” since joining the firm.  Corzine said after resigning that he wouldn’t take
severance pay.  The executive took home $4.3 million in salary and cash
bonuses for the two fiscal years that ended March 2011,
according to the firm’s proxy statement. In fiscal 2011, Corzine
agreed to lower his guaranteed annual cash pay to $750,000 a
year from $2 million. He received options to buy
2.5 million MF Global shares when he joined the firm, according
to the proxy.  With Corzine unable to find a buyer, MF Global filed for
protection from creditors on Oct. 31, saying it had $41 billion
in assets.  The parent’s bankruptcy case is  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) ,
11-bk-15059, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New
York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  