-- Facebook Tumbles Below IPO Price on Second Day of Trading
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-05-21T20:04:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/facebook-shares-drop-below-ipo-price-in-german-trading.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , the social networking
site that raised $16 billion in an initial public offering, fell
below its $38 offer price in its second trading day.  The shares  dropped  11 percent to $34.03 at the close in  New
York . The stock rose less than a percent to $38.23 at the close
of its first day of trading on May 18.  Facebook, with more than 900 million users, is trying to
attract more marketers to boost sales as competition increases.
The company, the biggest provider of online display ads in the
U.S., is set to lose the top spot to  Google Inc. (GOOG)  next year,
according to EMarketer Inc. The offering valued Facebook at 107
times trailing 12-month earnings, more than every S&P 500 member
except Amazon.com Inc. and  Equity Residential. (EQR)  Today’s slump
reinforces concern that the IPO was priced too high.  “Investors are clearly recognizing the risks embedded in
the stock,” said  Brian Wieser , an analyst at Pivotal Research
Group LLC, who has a sell rating on the stock and doesn’t own
it. “It’s just been priced for perfection at the IPO price, and
that’s clearly unrealistic.”  Morgan Stanley (MS) , the bank that handled the IPO, stepped in
to prop up the stock to keep shares from dipping below the offer
price on May 18, said people with knowledge of the matter, who
asked not to be identified because the purchases were private.  Shareholders ‘Want Out’  “It looks like they’re through spending their own money to
support the price,”  Francis Gaskins , president of researcher
IPOdesktop.com in Marina del Rey, California, said in an
interview today. “Shareholders are lined up at the gate --they
want out.”  The IPO also suffered from trading glitches on its first
day.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  Chief Executive Officer  Robert
Greifeld  said a “poor design” in software driving auctions for
IPOs caused issues with Facebook’s first trading day.  Morgan Stanley completed its role in the IPO auction at
11:11 a.m. on May 18, Greifeld said last week. Between then and
11:30 a.m., customers kept submitting cancellations and updating
existing orders, putting Nasdaq’s systems into a “loop” and
preventing it from opening the stock, he said.  The IPO valued the Menlo Park, California-based company
site at $104 billion.  Mobile Users  Facebook is trying to adapt as more users visit its site
through mobile phones instead of the Web. That put pressure on
company executives to articulate their mobile strategy as they
marketed the stock to potential investors ahead of the IPO.
Facebook has said it would add mobile advertising along with new
ads to reach users when they log off the company’s website.  Facebook still faces hurdles in traditional Web
advertising.  General Motors Co. (GM) , the world’s biggest automaker
by vehicles sold, said last week it was halting display ads on
Facebook, while maintaining brand-promotion pages.  Sales at Facebook, which makes most of its money from
graphically based online ads, came in at $3.71 billion last
year. That puts it below the top 50 U.S. technology companies by
revenue. Google Inc., valued at almost twice as much as
Facebook, reported $37.9 billion in revenue last year. Google
jumped 18 percent on its first day of trading in 2004.  Internet IPOs  Facebook was the 11th U.S. consumer Internet company to go
public in the past year, a stretch that began with  LinkedIn (LNKD) 
Corp. With a valuation of $104.8 billion at the May 18 close,
Facebook is worth more than three times the other 10 combined.
LinkedIn, a social network for professionals, is second, valued
at $10.3 billion.  “There are only so many people that are going to buy into
a hyper-growth story,” said  Michael Pachter , an analyst with
Wedbush Securities Inc. in Los Angeles, who rates the stock
outperform and doesn’t own it.  LinkedIn surged 109 percent last May after its IPO.  Groupon
Inc. (GRPN) , the biggest daily-deal coupon site, began trading on Nov.
4 at $20 and rose 31 percent that day. Groupon’s shares closed
at $11.58 on May 18.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  