-- Facebook IPO Spawns New Wave Social-Media Angels: Tech
-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-05-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/facebook-ipo-spawns-new-wave-social-media-angels-tech.html
Facebook Inc.’s (FB)  initial public
offering is poised to create some 850 new millionaires, spawning
a new class of angel investors looking to help other startups
build on the popularity of the biggest social network.  While not all of the young and rich will plunge a portion
of their wealth into emerging Web and mobile companies,
investing has proved to be popular among early  Facebook  alumni.
Instagram Inc., Spotify Ltd. and Flipboard Inc. are all backed
by that group.  Even in an already frothy market, their capital and advice
are in high demand because entrepreneurs need all the help they
can get when it comes to reaching Facebook’s 900 million users,
said Aydin Senkut, an early Google Inc. executive and the
founder of Felicis Ventures. Assuming Facebook holds its initial
valuation for six months after the IPO, about $9 billion of
restricted stock and options will be vested and available to
sell by current and former employees.  “The most important thing is the experience and
connections they’re bringing to the table,” said Senkut, who
left Google to form his  Palo Alto , California-based firm in
2005. “In terms of the money, certainly it will be beneficial,
but we already have a lot of money.”  It starts with the money. Facebook, based in Menlo Park,
 California , raised $16 billion in its IPO last week, valuing the
social-networking site at $104 billion. That’s the biggest on
record for an  Internet company  at its debut, and more than four
times Google’s value when the search engine went public in 2004.  Facebook rose 0.6 percent to $38.23 at the close in New
York on May 18, its  first day  of trading.  Millionaires in Waiting  Of Facebook’s 3,700  employees , about 600 will become
millionaires, according to PrivCo, a research firm that
specializes in private companies’ financial data. An additional
250 former employees are millionaires or soon will be, the New
York-based firm estimates.  Those looking to grab an early piece of the next billion-
dollar company will be jumping into an increasingly competitive
market. Venture  investing  in the U.S. surged 25 percent last
year to $29.1 billion, with $11.9 billion of that in Silicon
Valley, according to the  National Venture Capital Association .
That doesn’t include many of the seed deals that are not
registered with the association.  “Add to that a whole bunch of new individuals coming in
with a whole bunch of wealth that they’ll deploy into the
entrepreneurial community and it will make it even more
competitive,” said Ted Schlein, a partner at Menlo Park-based
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers. His venture-capital firm
raised a $525 million fund last week.  Facebook Alumni  The most prominent former Facebook executives turned
investors include  Sean Parker ,  Dustin Moskovitz , Dave Morin,
Matt Cohler, Adam D’Angelo and Chamath Palihapitiya.  Parker, Facebook’s first president, invested in music-
sharing site Spotify, while Moskovitz left to start software
maker Asana Inc. and invested in mobile application makers Path
Inc. and Flipboard.  D’Angelo started Quora Inc. and, along with Cohler of
 Benchmark Capital , invested in Instagram, the photo-sharing app
that Facebook agreed to buy for $1 billion. In March, Parker,
Moskovitz and Morin, the founder of Path, invested together in
software company NationBuilder.  “Facebook is the ‘it’ company that everyone wants to make
sure they can capitalize on,” said Sonja Hoel Perkins, a
partner at Menlo Ventures in  Menlo Park . Areas where Facebook
employees can help are “integration with Facebook, making sure
the social aspects of their business are working or knowing the
relevant people,” she said.  Plenty of Capital  For hot startups like those in the  Y Combinator  incubator
program, there’s no shortage of available capital. In addition
to the $18,000 on average that Y Combinator invests, each
company has access to $150,000 from the Start Fund, a group that
includes Andreessen Horowitz,  Ron Conway  and Yuri Milner.
Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, is an
investor in Andreessen Horowitz.  Beyond that, investors are lining up to get in on the first
institutional fundraising round.  “It’s really good for people like us,” said Ajay Mehta,
co-founder of Palo Alto-based social-network site  FamilyLeaf ,
one of 65 companies that went through the three-month Y
Combinator course earlier this year. “People that wouldn’t have
previously invested now are, so it makes founders less
desperate.”  ‘Fierce Interest’  Hear It Local, a  San Francisco  startup focused on the  music
industry , raised $250,000 from a group of 10 angel investors in
the last year and is preparing to raise more funding. The
company is deciding between an early-stage firm and some high-
profile angels, said co-founder Matt Lombardi. Part of that
financing will go to help build a new Facebook app, he said.  “I don’t think that in the past decade there’s been so
much fierce interest from tech angels before,” said Lombardi.
“It’s relatively easy to get outside funding right now.”  That all makes investors like George Zachary nervous.
Zachary, who runs the seed funding program at Charles River
Ventures in Menlo Park and was an early Twitter Inc. investor,
said the influx of cash means too many mediocre companies are
getting funded.  The excess drives up the costs of engineers because
everyone is chasing the same finite talent pool, he said. At the
same time, dozens of startups are going after niche markets with
a lot of hype and little revenue.  ‘Recruiting Problems’  “You have recruiting problems because of more money in the
market,” Zachary said. “You have other problems because now
you have 20 competitors instead of maybe two, and there are
still only going to be one or two breakouts in the field.”  Technical talent in the San Francisco Bay area is
expensive. Software application developers in Silicon Valley
earned on average $117,150 as of May 2011, compared with the
median national annual salary of $92,080, according to the
 Bureau of Labor Statistics .  Facebook spells out the hiring challenge in its prospectus,
highlighting the battle for engineers and salespeople primarily
in the San Francisco area. The company said its ability to offer
equity incentives may not be as effective as in the past when it
was an emerging startup. Add to that the difficulty of retaining
millionaires who are set for life.  “We have a number of current employees whose equity
ownership in our company gives them a substantial amount of
personal wealth,” Facebook said in the prospectus. “This
wealth could affect their decisions about whether or not they
continue to work for us.”  As opposed to, say, becoming an angel investor.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  