-- FDA’s $6.4 Billion Plan for Quick Reviews Moves to Senate
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-05-21T14:25:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/fda-s-6-4-billion-plan-for-quick-reviews-moves-to-senate.html
A $6.4 billion effort to speed U.S.
reviews of new drugs and medical devices is a step closer to law
as the agreements  Mylan Inc. (MYL) ,  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and other companies
struck with regulators wind through Congress.  The Senate is set to begin voting as soon as today on more
than $2 billion in new fees that drug and device companies will
pay regulators through 2017 to review products for safety and
efficacy. The figure includes $1.56 billion from generic-drug
companies such as Canonsburg, Pennsylvania-based Mylan, which
had been exempt from such fees.  Mylan, the largest U.S. generic-drug company, led the
effort for its industry to quicken review times and deal with a
backlog of applications, as well as to ensure the  Food and Drug
Administration  has the resources to inspect foreign plants. The
legislation also would speed approval of treatments for life-
threatening conditions, enhance safety monitoring of devices
after clearance and mitigate drug shortages.  “To get lifesaving drugs and devices to the patients that
need them as quickly as possible, Congress must give the  Food
and Drug Administration  the tools it needs to review and approve
these products,” Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Democrat
from  Nevada , said May 17 on the Senate floor.  Brand-name drugmakers will pay $4.1 billion, 6 percent more
than the previous five-year period, while fees for device makers
will more than double to $609 million, according to the
 Congressional Budget Office ’s  cost estimate . The device makers
negotiated the new fees with the FDA in February, while
drugmakers reached their agreement in September.  Biologic Drugs  Companies making generic versions of complex biologic
drugs, a process not allowed until passage of President  Barack Obama ’s health law in 2010, also will pay a user fee, which the
budget office determined would total $128 million through 2017.  The fees will “translate into greater transparency,
efficiency and accountability from the FDA, certainly that’s the
hope,” said John Manthei, a health-care lawyer and lobbyist at
Latham & Watkins LLP in Washington.  Pharmaceutical companies have paid user fees since 1992 and
device makers began their system in 2002. The current five-year
program must be reauthorized by Oct. 1. Fees from brand-name
drugmakers fund about 60 percent of FDA reviews, while the
increase in device payments will support about 35 percent.  ‘Sweet Spot’  The measure is a bipartisan compromise that Senator  Tom Harkin , a Democrat from  Iowa , said was built through consensus
from both major political parties to ensure passage. Washington-
based industry lobbying groups, the  Pharmaceutical Research and
Manufacturers of America  and the  Advanced Medical Technology
Association , said they support the Senate legislation.  “We have hit the sweet spot,” Harkin, who is chairman of
the Senate’s health committee, said during debate May 17. “We
did not allow our differences to deflect us from the critically
important goal of producing a bill that everyone could support.
As a result, this is a truly bipartisan bill, and it is broadly
supported by the patient groups and industry.”  The Senate will meet at 2 p.m. local time today to resume
consideration of the bill. Reid scheduled a procedural vote
today to limit debate on  The Food and Drug Administration Safety
and Innovation Act . A final vote on passage may happen this
week, based on the typical timeline for Senate proceedings. The
 House of Representatives  plans to take up its bill the week of
May 28, Laena Fallon, a spokeswoman for House Majority Leader
 Eric Cantor , a  Virginia  Republican, said in an e-mail.  The Senate bill is S. 3187, and the House version is  H.R.
5651 .  Finding Value  In the legislation, the device companies, including
Minneapolis-based  Medtronic Inc. (MDT) , and drugmakers obtained
additional meetings with the FDA throughout the review process
so companies can attempt to deal with concerns rather than
receive a rejection letter. The legislation also directs the
agency to help companies with medicines for life-threatening
diseases plan clinical development programs that will most
likely gain speedy approval.  “Drug developers feel there really is value in getting
FDA’s perspective early to avoid surprises in an application
review,”  Nancy Bradish Myers , president of Catalyst Healthcare
Consulting Inc. in McLean, Virginia, said in a phone interview.  Lawmakers sought to adjust device oversight, requiring
post-market studies and pushing the FDA to implement a system to
electronically track devices. Drug companies also would be
required to report potential drug shortages to give regulators
time to find alternate sources. Shortages, including cancer
treatments, almost tripled to 178 in 2010 from 61 in 2005,
according to a FDA report released in October.  Vaginal Mesh  Device companies successfully fought proposed language that
would have barred clearance of low-to medium-risk devices if a
similar device have been voluntarily recalled for a safety
reason. The majority of devices go through a clearance process
that requires proof they are similar to a product already on the
market.  Vaginal mesh made by  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  -- linked to internal injuries, incontinence
and painful sex -- was approved despite concerns about safety
with earlier versions.  Jeffrey Shuren , director of the FDA’s
Center for Devices and Radiological Health, said he supports a
legislative fix for the “loophole.”  “It may carry the same intrinsic defect that poses the
same safety threat to patients,” Michael Carome, deputy
director of the Health Research Group at consumer advocacy
organization  Public Citizen , said in a telephone interview.  Political Message  J.C. Scott, the chief lobbyist for the  Advanced Medical
Technology Association , said the prohibition would have had “a
pretty devastating impact on the ability of companies to make
incremental improvements on existing products.” The FDA has the
power to determine a device is unsafe and reject its
application, Scott said in a telephone interview.  Myers, of Catalyst Healthcare, said she doesn’t expect any
surprises or major changes to the legislation.  “Most members of Congress want to go home with a
satisfying health-care bill under their belt,” she said. “It
is a good political message to say ‘I streamlined some of the
regulatory process.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  