-- Fed Says QE Reduced Yields on More Than Targeted Debt
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-05-21T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/fed-says-qe-reduced-yields-on-more-than-targeted-debt.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s asset purchases
reduced yields on securities beyond the government and mortgage
bonds targeted by the central bank as it pumped record stimulus
into the economy, the  San Francisco  Fed said.  Policy makers’ announcements of the purchases pushed down
yields for corporate bonds and primary mortgage rates, Michael
Bauer, an economist at the district bank, said in a paper
released today. After the Fed’s announcement of the first round
of so-called quantitative easing in November 2008,  10-year
Treasury yields  fell by 1 percentage point, an investment-grade
corporate bond yield index declined by 0.89 percentage point and
the yield on 30-year mortgage-backed securities fell by 0.93
percentage point, Bauer said in the paper.  Since the onset of the 2008 financial crisis, the U.S.
central bank has held the benchmark  interest rates  near zero and
expanded its balance sheet by $2.3 trillion. Several Fed policy
makers said flagging momentum in economic growth or increased
risks to the outlook may warrant additional action, minutes from
the April 24-25 meeting showed.  “The programs have worked similarly to conventional
monetary policy, which also uses interest rate changes to
stimulate or slow the economy,” Bauer said. “Unconventional
monetary policy actions can only be successful in stimulating
the economy if they lower the  interest rates  that matter most
for businesses and households, that is, the private borrowing
rates that determine the cost of funds for the private sector.”  The U.S. central bank announced its first round of asset
purchases in November 2008 to unfreeze credit markets. The
program that became known as QE1 eventually totaled $1.75
trillion in Treasuries, mortgage bonds and federal agency debt.  Extend the Maturity  Since then, the Fed has also announced an additional $600
billion in Treasury purchases and a program to extend the
maturity of the government debt on its balance sheet to support
the economic recovery.  The latter programs, known as QE2 and Operation Twist, were
less effective in reducing borrowing rates because bond markets
had already normalized, short-term interest rate expectations
were low and the programs were smaller in scale, Bauer said.  The Fed’s asset purchases have been less successful in
reducing  mortgage rates  for homeowners than in cutting the yield
on mortgage bonds, Bauer said.  “Industry consolidation may have reduced competitive
pressures among mortgage originators,” he said. “This suggests
that the weaker link between MBS yields and primary mortgages
may persist for some time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  