-- Fired Thai Air CEO Blames Politics Over Business: Southeast Asia
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2012-05-22T09:42:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/fired-thai-air-ceo-blames-politics-over-business-southeast-asia.html
Thai Airways International Pcl (THAI)  Chief
Executive Officer Piyasvasti Amranand thought his annual review
went well. That didn’t stop the board from firing him.  “I just want the board to explain the reason,” Piyasvasti
said at a media briefing yesterday. “It’s ambiguous. The
performance of the company during my term has improved in every
aspect and I passed the evaluation at 86 percent.”  The board of  Thailand ’s biggest airline cited a breakdown
in communications with Piyasvasti for terminating his contract
after three years. Piyasvasti oversaw a fleet modernization and
cost cuts in 2009 that helped Thai Air rebound from its largest
ever loss the year before to a record  profit  in 2010. The
carrier slipped to another loss last year as fuel costs surged.  Communication problems between Piyasvasti and the board
were hampering the company’s effort to meet a profit target of 6
billion baht ($192 million) to 7 billion baht this year,
Chairman Ampon Kittiampon said yesterday. Ampon confirmed that
Piyasvasti passed the company’s annual performance evaluation.  “Piyasvasti has done a great job, so there are concerns
whether the new guy will be able to manage Thai Air as well as
he did,” Sirima Dissara, an analyst at SCB Securities Co. in
Bangkok, said yesterday by phone. Sirima said she will assess
the new management and policies before reviewing her buy
recommendation on the stock and the target price of 31 baht.  Thai Air has climbed 8 percent this year, compared with a
10 percent gain for Thailand’s benchmark  SET Index. (SET)  The stock
increased 77 percent during Piyasvasti’s tenure, which started
in June 2009. Today, the  shares  fell 5.3 percent to 21.6 baht,
the lowest close since Jan. 17.  ‘So Strange’  “The reasons that the board gave, that I have
communication problems and differences of opinion with the
board, are so strange,” said Piyasvasti, a former energy
minister. “I am not that surprised, because the current
political environment is like this.”  Piyasvasti’s removal comes a month after state-controlled
 PTT Exploration & Production Pcl (PTTEP)  replaced its CEO amid a
management reshuffle at parent company  PTT Pcl. (PTT)  Both Thai Air
and PTT are 51 percent-owned by Thailand’s Ministry of Finance.  “Some work has not been in line with the board’s
policies,” Ampon said. He rejected suggestions that the move
was politically motivated, saying seven of the 12 board members
at yesterday’s meeting were appointed by the previous
government.  Of the 26 analysts covering the airline, 13 recommend
buying the stock, nine advise holding it and four rate it sell.  Acting President  Thai Air’s labor union plans to submit a letter to the
finance and transport ministers and the Office of the Ombudsman
today urging Ampon to fully explain the decision to terminate
Piyasvasti’s contract, union leader Chamsri Sukchotrat said.  “There is no political interference in this issue,” Prime
Minister Yingluck Shinawatra told reporters today, adding that
the government has no one in mind to replace Piyasvasti.  Executive Vice President Chokchai Panyayong will become
acting president effective immediately, and the company formed a
committee that will take as long as three months to identify a
permanent CEO candidate, Ampon said. When Piyasvasti was
appointed to lead the carrier in 2009 it was after a seven-month
search.  “I believe the board did this for the company’s benefit,”
Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said today. “I believe
it’s not political interference because most of the board was
appointed by the last government.”  Thai Smile  Thai Air’s board approved a plan last June to acquire 37
new planes by 2017 at a cost of 118.6 billion baht. The company
has 87.2 billion baht of debt, including 55 billion baht in
loans due between 2014 and 2018, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  The carrier’s Thai Smile unit will start July 7 to compete
with budget competitors including  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA)  Thai Smile will
use four Airbus SAS A320 aircraft on routes to Macau and to Thai
destinations including Krabi, Surat Thani,  Chiang Mai  and
Phuket, Managing Director Woranate Laprabang said last month.  “I have worked with the board all along without any
problems,” Piyasvasti said. “If I had problems with the board,
the company wouldn’t have come this far.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  