-- Revamp to Blowout Devices Two Years After BP Weighed by U.S.
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-05-21T17:24:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/first-change-to-stop-offshore-blowouts-since-bp-weighed-by-u-s-.html
Oil and gas companies drilling in the
U.S.  Gulf of Mexico  may need to pay millions of dollars for
improvements to safety valves on the seabed floor they hope
never get used.  The U.S. Interior Department is drafting rules for
modifying blowout preventers, the five-story tall devices
costing as much as $45 million that are the last chance to stop
an out-of-control oil well from spewing crude into the sea.  Regulators are focusing on tighter rules because a unit on
 BP Plc (BP/) ’s leased Deepwater Horizon rig failed in 2010, leading to
the worst offshore  oil spill  in the U.S. Engineers studying the
accident, which killed 11 workers and spoiled Gulf beaches,
recommended a major redesign for the devices.  “This is an area that deserves a full and open discussion
about what comes next,”  James Watson , director of the Interior
Department’s  Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement ,
said in an e-mail. The U.S. intends to prepare a draft rule this
year, Watson said May 1 in a Houston speech.  The blowout preventer sits atop the wellhead to regulate
the force propelling oil and gas up the pipe from underground.
If the device fails to control the fluctuating pressure, a large
blade is designed to sever, or shear, the pipe to choke the flow
and, like a window blind blocking the light, prevent explosive
gases from reaching the rig and crews on the surface.  Blind Shear Rams  The so-called blind shear rams at BP’s Macondo well in the
Gulf failed to complete a seal in April 2010 because they were
jammed by a portion of drill pipe knocked out of alignment in
the explosion, Oslo-based Det Norske Veritas, a management-risk
company, found in a report commissioned by the Interior
Department and published last year.  Companies drilling in the Gulf in some cases are using
gear, similar to the Macondo unit, that may be unable to
compensate in an explosion, said Roger McCarthy, a participant
of National Academy of Engineering’s investigation of the BP
blowout.  “Some of the units on the ocean floor today have all of
the drawbacks of the Deepwater Horizon blowout preventer,”
McCarthy said in an interview. “Some of them have two blind
shear rams and other technologies that make them less prone to
have a problem,” providing a backup when one fails.  That’s why experts including McCarthy and Lois Epstein, a
member of the Interior Department’s  Ocean Energy Safety Advisory
Committee,  recommend that the federal government require all
companies in the Gulf of Mexico have two sets of shear rams
instead of one.  BP’s Double Rams  BP introduced double shear rams for all its Gulf of Mexico
operations in the enhanced standards the London-based company
adopted before resuming work in the Gulf.  McCarthy will present his recommendations to the Interior
Department during a conference tomorrow the agency is holding in
 Washington . Executives from  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , BP,  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA) ,  Diamond Offshore Drilling Inc. (DO)  and  Noble Corp. (NE)  have been
invited, according to a draft agenda obtained by Bloomberg.  “The failure of the blowout preventer was one of the root
causes of the Deepwater Horizon tragedy,” Interior’s Watson
said. “We look forward to hearing from industry and others on
how we can take the next step in blowout-preventer safety.”  The U.S. delayed adoption of tougher blowout-preventer
standards when post-spill rules were issued in late 2010, citing
the time required by drillers to comply. Under already adopted
rules, drillers need independent third-party verification that
their blind shear rams can cut any drill pipe under maximum
pressure, and show evidence of inspections and maintenance.  Last Resort  Operators also must maintain safety and environmental
programs, and provide management oversight of operations and
contractors under the current rules.  A blowout preventer is a last resort and operators need
safety procedures to ensure they never get to the point where
the preventer is activated, said  Tad Patzek , also a member of
Interior Department’s safety advisory body and the chairman of
the Department of Petroleum & Geosystems Engineering at the
 University of Texas  at Austin.  “Yes, it’s nice to have double rams,” Patzek said in an
interview. “But the key is -- you should never have to use
them.”  McCarthy also recommends adding tests that would verify
whether the massive valves will actually work thousands of feet
under water, where they will be installed.  Blowout preventers are now tested on the sea floor and so
additional requirements are unnecessary, Holly Hopkins, a senior
policy adviser in Upstream and Industry Operations with the
 American Petroleum Institute , said in an interview.  API Standards  API, the largest oil-industry trade group, will consider a
requirement for double shear rams in the revision of its
blowout-preventer standards that may be completed later this
year, she said.  Overall, the blowout preventers now in the Gulf of  Mexico 
are better than those before the BP spill, said  Michael Bromwich , former head of the U.S. offshore safety agency and now
managing principal of the Bromwich Group, a strategic consulting
company.  “The newer rigs coming to the Gulf of Mexico after the
spill have a newer generation of blowout preventers,” Bromwich,
a partner in law firm Goodwin Procter LLP, said in an interview.
“Many of them have a second blind shear ram, which is one of
the things that many people think would substantially enhance
the ability of blowout preventers to deal with a blowout.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  