-- Global Dairy Prices Nearing Bottom of Slump, Fonterra CEO Says
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2012-05-22T05:04:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/fonterra-cuts-milk-payout-forecast-on-global-price-slump-2-.html
Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the
world’s largest dairy exporter, said prices will start
recovering from the lowest in two years when the company’s next
milking season starts in August.  “We are seeing the bottom,” Chief Executive Officer Theo Spierings said by telephone from Auckland today. Prices had
weakened in recent months after an “emotional reaction” to
earlier high costs and excess supply, he said.  Fonterra plans to pay its farmer suppliers 9 percent less
next year after the price slump. The company will pay its 11,000
shareholders NZ$5.50 ($4.21) a kilogram of milk solids in the
year ending May 31, 2013, it said in a  statement  today. That
compares with the current year’s payout, which was cut by 30
cents to NZ$6.05 a kilogram.  Whole-milk  powder  at the company’s GlobalDairyTrade
auctions tumbled 25 percent in two months to May 15 after mild
weather and record prices spurred farmers to boost output. That
helped push global  food costs  lower for the first time this year
in April, with dairy prices dropping to the cheapest since
October 2009, according to the  United Nations ’ Food &
Agriculture Organization.  New Zealand ’s dollar weakened to a
five-month low in May as powder prices fell to the weakest since
August 2009.  “There’s a lot of milk out there and prices have
softened,” Chairman Henry van der Heyden said in the statement.
“Supply and demand should move more into balance later in 2012
which may help ease the downward pressure on prices.”  Price Recovery  While recovery is expected, an overhang of supply may see
further decreases in some auction prices before August,
Spierings said. That won’t lead to revised forecasts, he said.  The  New Zealand dollar  traded at 76.56 U.S. cents at 5
p.m., from 76.54 cents before this morning’s report. The next
season’s forecast was 30 cents higher than Bank of New Zealand’s
expectation, currency strategist  Mike Jones  said in an e-mail.  Fonterra previously lowered its forecast payout in March,
citing falling commodity prices and a stronger local currency
that was then trading near 82 cents. It rose as high as 83.2
cents in mid-April.  “If the dollar’s very strong, then exporting becomes
difficult,” Spierings said. “I’m not pleading for an extremely
low dollar but I think 83 was on the high side. Where we are now
is more rational.”  Fonterra kept its forecast for profit after tax in the year
ending May 31 at NZ$0.40 to NZ$0.50 a share.  At an auction last week, July-delivery powder fell 9.6
percent from the previous sale, Fonterra’s trade-weighted price
 index  shows. The near-term contract fell for the 11th straight
sale to $2,488 a ton. Prices reached an all-time high of $4,958
in March last year.  Fonterra, which accounts for about 40 percent of the global
trade in dairy products, said in March milk collections were up
10 percent on the same period in 2011. The company processes 95
percent of New Zealand’s milk and generates more than 20 percent
of the nation’s export earnings, according to its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  