-- Gael Garcia Bernal on Chile, Boxing: Cannes Interview
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-05-21T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/gael-garcia-bernal-enjoys-cross-dressing-fisticuffs-interview.html
Gael Garcia Bernal holds court on a
hotel terrace in Cannes as persistent rain showers beat against
the plastic curtains all around.  It’s the worst weather anyone can recall at the  Cannes Film
Festival , where Bernal is presenting “No” -- the true story of
a 15-minute television ad that led to Chilean dictator  Augusto Pinochet ’s ouster in a 1988 referendum. Bernal plays the cool
adman who makes the “No” campaigners replace their somber
archive images with clips of people smiling and having fun.  Also on hand is the film’s Chilean director, Pablo Larrain,
whose work shows history through the eyes of regular people. He
says the 1988 ad was “essential” in toppling Pinochet, and
praises the movie’s producers Participant Media (owned by  EBay
Inc. (EBAY) ’s first president Jeff Skoll, who also funded “The
Help”).  As Mexican-born Bernal settles on damp patio furniture, I
pull up a chair and begin a conversation that covers cross-
dressing, boxing and cooking. We last met on a sunny day of May
2006 at a Cannes roundtable for “Babel.” Though now married
and a father of two, 33-year-old Bernal still looks boyish in
jeans, a hooded sweatshirt and muddy ankle boots.  Pinochet’s Coup  Bernal, who in 2004 played Che Guevara in “The Motorcycle
Diaries,” says Pinochet was “a sore in human history” because
he replaced his democratically elected predecessor in a coup. He
left just as unusually, says Bernal -- after a referendum the
dictator himself put on.  The actor is pleased with the Cannes reception for “No.”
He has had other movie offers that await funding. “It’s very
difficult to raise money, especially in the  United States , for
independent movies,” he says.  He’d love to work again with the man who gave him his first
break: Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu -- director of “Amores
Perros” (2000) and “Babel” -- and with Pedro Almodovar, who
cast him as the transvestite in “Bad Education” (2004). “It’s
just a question of him picking up the phone and calling me,”
Bernal says.  Cross-dressing in “Bad Education” was “really, really
fun,” says Bernal, who’d do it again. “We all have a cross-
gender character: Every woman has a man that they can play, and
every man has a woman that they can play,” he says, describing
his female half as impervious and “high-maintenance.”  Playing the Fool  I ask if transvestite roles offer a welcome break from his
image as the green-eyed looker, and he laughs nervously. Acting
is liberating because it allows him “to get away with
everything,” and “sometimes be completely obnoxious,” says
Bernal. He likes the fact that actors, in society, “occupy, a
little bit, the place of a fool.”  His passion for soccer is undiminished, though an accident
last year led to a painful operation, he says, pointing with a
groan to his right knee. He has taken up boxing, Bernal says,
the only sport  Mexico  is consistently good at.  Isn’t he a little slight? “Ah, you don’t want to know my
recently acquired techniques!” he laughs. What about the scars
that might compromise his career? Amateur soccer is riskier, he
says, because “you’re always on the verge of being the hero and
throwing yourself or banging yourself in front of the post.” In
boxing, you’re careful “because you know you might get hit.”  Time off is spent watching his kids grow up, and cooking
for friends, though he’s “not amazing” at it.  Any specialty? “Recently I’ve been doing risottos,” he
says. “Some of them have been amazing.” Then, lest he sounds
smug, he stresses, “Some of them, not all of them.”  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include: Guy Collins on  wine , Richard Vines
on  food  and James Russell on  architecture .  To contact the reporter on the story:
Farah Nayeri, in Cannes, at  farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 