-- Gasoline in U.S. Northwest Tumbles After BP Resumes Production
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-05-21T20:53:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/gasoline-in-u-s-northwest-tumbles-after-bp-resumes-production.html
Spot gasoline in Portland,  Oregon ,
tumbled to the lowest level against futures in almost two weeks
after  BP Plc (BP/)  resumed production at the Cherry Point oil refinery
in  Washington  following a three-month shutdown.  BP started output at the 266,000-barrel-a-day Cherry Point
refinery late last week, a person familiar with operations said
today. The plant had been shut for repairs and maintenance since
a fire broke out Feb. 17. BP has said it expects to return the
entire refinery to normal rates by the end of the month.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in Portland, Oregon, a
benchmark for the U.S. Northwest, dropped 6 cents to 51.5 cents
a gallon above gasoline futures traded on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange at 4:23 p.m. East Coast time, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest premium for the
fuel since May 8.  Low-sulfur diesel in  Portland  tumbled 8 cents to a 25-cent-
a-gallon premium over Nymex heating oil futures.  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in  Los Angeles  fell
for the third straight day, declining by 1 cent to 17.5 cents a
gallon above futures. The fuel’s premium has narrowed 39 cents
since May 10 as refineries finish seasonal maintenance and
restore supplies in the market.  San Francisco Carbob climbed 0.5 cent to a 14.5-cent-a-
gallon premium after falling for six straight days.  Rodeo Refinery  Phillips 66 (PSX)  was flaring sulfur dioxide at the 76,000-
barrel-a-day Rodeo refinery in Northern  California  over the
weekend, the Houston-based company said in a  notice  to the
California Emergency Management Agency. Phillips 66 refers to
the Rodeo refinery and the Santa Maria plant in Arroyo Grande,
California, together as the  San Francisco  refinery.  Rich Johnson , a company spokesman in Houston, declined to
comment on the regulatory filing.  “I can only confirm that there is planned maintenance
currently under way at the San Francisco refinery,” he said.  The Rodeo plant shut a hydrocracker in April for six weeks
of planned maintenance, two people familiar with the work said
April 26.  Johnson also declined to say whether the plant was affected
by a  power failure  that cut electricity to thousands of
customers in west Contra Costa County last week.  CARB diesel in Los Angeles, now trading for June delivery,
dropped 2.25 cents to 5 cents a gallon above heating oil
futures. The same fuel in San Francisco fell 2.5 cents to a 4.5-
cent premium.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  