-- German Metal Workers’ 4.3% Pay Settlement Seen Setting Benchmark
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2012-05-21T15:15:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/german-metal-workers-4-3-pay-settlement-seen-setting-benchmark.html
A 4.3 percent pay increase for German
metal workers doesn’t pose an inflation threat even as it sets a
precedent for other industries, economists said.  The IG Metall union said the 13-month deal for 800,000
workers in the state of Baden-Wuerttemberg will serve as a
benchmark for the 3.6 million metal workers across  Germany .
Economists including Holger Schmieding at Berenberg Bank said
the settlement, which equates to a 4 percent gain in annual
terms, will also provide a model for other industries in
Europe’s largest economy.  It “surpasses the 3 percent pace which we consider
compatible with both full employment and inflation below 2
percent in the long run,” said Schmieding, chief economist at
Berenberg in  London . “There is, however, no need to be
concerned about a price-wage spiral. The service sector should
get lower wage hikes, and higher wages in the metal industry are
not going to be passed on to prices.”  German workers are seeking pay increases that exceed
inflation as unemployment at a two-decade low bolsters their
bargaining power. Wage restraint over the past decade has
increased companies’ competitiveness and helped the economy to
weather Europe’s sovereign debt crisis, widening the divergences
between Germany and some of its euro-area partners.  “The wage increases were deserved and will help to support
private consumption and thereby economic growth,” said Jens Kramer, an economist at NordLB in Hanover, Germany. Still,
“there is no need to worry about inflation getting out of hand
in Germany,” he said.  Inflation Limit  The IG Metall wage increase was twice the  European Central
Bank ’s 2 percent inflation limit and well above Germany’s 2.2
percent inflation rate. The union had asked for 6.5 percent.  Ver.di, the country’s main labor union for non-
manufacturing workers, won agreements in late March for a pay
increase of as much as 6.3 percent over two years for state and
municipal employees. Negotiations are also taking place in other
industries.  Germany’s chemical-sector union, IG BCE, is demanding a 6
percent industry-wide pay raise over 12 months for 550,000
employees. Ver.di is also seeking a 6 percent increase for
220,000 workers in the banking industry.  Germany recorded growth of 0.5 percent in the first quarter
even as eight euro-area countries were in recession.  German inflation will probably exceed the euro-area average
this year, Schmieding said. “But we maintain our view that this
change in relative positions will occur by inflation falling
elsewhere in  Europe  due to labor-market slack and weak demand,
and not by German inflation rising above its current level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph de Weck in Frankfurt at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  