-- German Stocks Rise, Snapping Five Days of Losses
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-05-21T16:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/german-stocks-rise-snapping-five-day-slide-bmw-advances.html
German stocks  advanced, rebounding
from the biggest weekly drop of the year, as Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao pledged to focus more on bolstering growth and Group of
Eight leaders pushed for Greece to stay in the euro area.  Software AG (SOW)  and  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  led technology
shares higher.  Merck KGaA (MRK)  and  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  rallied at least
2.5 percent after UBS AG upgraded its recommendations on the
shares.  The  DAX (DAX)  Index climbed 1 percent to 6,331.04 at the close of
trading in Frankfurt. The benchmark gauge retreated 4.7 percent
last week, the largest drop since Dec. 16, amid growing concern
that Greece will be pushed out of the euro. The broader HDAX
Index also rose 1 percent today.  “It feels like a relief rally from oversold levels and
confidence in seeing G-8 leaders all in similar tune,” said
Daniel Weston, a portfolio adviser at Schroeder Equities GmbH in
Munich. “The comments from  Wen Jiabao  were certainly nice to
hear, but the euro story is still the main game in driving
markets.”  Faced with differences between Europe and the U.S., and
among European governments over the crisis response, the eight
leading industrial economies concurred at President  Barack Obama ’s retreat outside Washington “that the right measures are
not the same for each of us.”  German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble will for the
first time discuss the euro at a meeting with his newly
installed French counterpart,  Pierre Moscovici , in Berlin today
as European Union leaders prepare for a summit in Brussels on
May 23.  Merkel, Hollande  After three shorter meetings in the last week, German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President Francois Hollande
will seek to balance France’s desire to jump-start growth with
Germany’s preference for spending cuts.  In China, Wen called for “putting stabilizing growth in a
more important position” and didn’t mention concern about
inflation in remarks published yesterday by the official Xinhua
News Agency. China may announce stimulus actions in the near
term, according to a front-page commentary today in the China
Securities Journal, published by Xinhua.  Spain’s government revised up its 2011 budget deficit to
8.9 percent of gross domestic product, even as its borrowing
costs approached levels that prompted bailouts in Greece,
Ireland and Portugal.  Software, Infineon  Software, Germany’s second-largest software maker, added
3.4 percent to 24.07 euros. Infineon Technologies, Europe’s
second-largest semiconductor maker, gained 2.1 percent to 6.33
euros. A gauge of technology companies was among best performers
of 19  industry groups  in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Preferred shares of  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , the world’s second-
biggest carmaker, gained 1 percent to 129.45 euros, rebounding
from a three-week low.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the largest
maker of  luxury vehicles , increased 0.8 percent to 61.77 euros.  MAN SE, the German truckmaker controlled by Volkswagen,
added 2.8 percent to 80.39 euros.  Merck rose 2.8 percent to 76.04 euros, snapping five days
of declines, as UBS upgraded the German drugmaker to buy from
neutral. ThyssenKrupp added 2.6 percent to 15.27 euros after the
brokerage raised Germany’s biggest steelmaker to neutral from
sell.  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8)  gained 2.9 percent to 47.51
euros. Germany’s biggest cable company agreed to acquire Tele
Columbus Group, the German cable television provider owned by
creditors after restructuring its debt, for 603 million euros
($770 million) plus accrued interest to expand coverage of the
country’s pay-television households.  Bayer AG (BAYN)  advanced 2.2 percent to 51.77 euros. The outlook
on the company’s long-term issuer default rating was raised to
positive from stable at Fitch Ratings, which cited “improved
operational and financial positioning.”  Metro AG, Germany’s largest retailer, added 3.2 percent to
24 euros.  Solarworld AG (SWV) , the biggest German maker of solar panels,
declined 7.8 percent to 1.50 euros after surging 6.5 percent on
May 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  