-- Goldman Sachs Boosts Tech Investments After Facebook IPO
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-05-21T14:44:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/goldman-sachs-spreads-tech-investments-after-facebook.html
(Corrects name of investor in 12th paragraph.)  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the bank
which last week doubled its money from a 2010 bet on  Facebook
Inc. (FB) , is ramping up investments in Web startups, underscoring
the allure of high-growth tech companies to financiers far from
Silicon Valley.  Goldman Sachs led a $52 million round of funding in
AnchorFree, the Mountain View, California-based maker of
Internet-surfing software said today in a statement. The bank is
also in talks to invest in Spotify Ltd. in a deal that would
value the London-based music-streaming service at up to $4
billion, a person familiar with the matter said last week.  Under Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein, Goldman
Sachs increased the size of its trading and investing operations
before the financial crisis, helping to make it the most
profitable securities firm in Wall Street history. The company
has funded rising technology startups including Facebook,
 LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) , Dropbox Inc., Gilt Groupe Inc., Uber
Technologies Inc., and ZocDoc Inc. In addition to providing
quick returns, relationships with these companies could help the
bank get mandates to handle their initial public offerings or
acquisitions, said Bill Gurley, a venture capitalist at
Benchmark Capital in Menlo Park,  California .  “They’re active in the private market and they certainly
would relish the opportunity to have a relationship with someone
who might become a banking client somewhere down the road via an
IPO or M & A,” Gurley said in an interview, referring to
mergers and acquisitions.  LinkedIn Investment  Principal investing -- where Goldman Sachs uses its own
money, instead of clients’ capital, to buy stakes in companies
or real estate -- has been a significant source of profits for
the firm in the past. Investing and lending, the Goldman Sachs
segments that records gains and losses from such holdings,
produced 7 percent of the bank’s  revenue  last year.  Goldman Sachs raised $235 million selling its stake in
 Facebook ’s May 18 IPO at a valuation of more than twice the $50
billion level at which the firm made its December 2010
investment. Funds that Goldman Sachs manages for the firm’s
clients also raised $855 million in the IPO.  Goldman Sachs, which bought 871,840 LinkedIn shares in June
2008, sold all of them in that company’s IPO, according to
LinkedIn’s IPO  prospectus . The IPO was priced at $45, meaning
Goldman Sachs collected $39.2 million at the time of the offer.
The bank could have more than doubled its money if it had held
the shares, which closed on May 18 at $99.02.  Lone Institutional Investor  AnchorFree invited Goldman Sachs to be the only new
institutional investor in its recent funding after turning down
offers from several venture-capital firms, said David Gorodyansky, the company’s chief executive officer. The Goldman
Sachs representatives participating in the deal, who Gorodyansky
declined to name, behaved more like Silicon Valley investors
than bankers, he said.  “They are investing the same way that any venture
capitalist would invest,” Gorodyansky said. “They are very
savvy product people.”  Co-founded by Gorodyansky in 2005,  AnchorFree  provides a
so-called proxy service, which lets users connect to the
Internet via remote servers so that they can’t be tracked and so
residents of countries like  China  and  Iran  can skirt censors
enforced by governments. With the new cash, the company plans to
buy servers and hire engineers to help with its push into mobile
Web browsing, Gorodyansky said.  Web Advertising  AnchorFree, which previously raised $11 million from
Landmark Ventures and others, is profitable and makes money by
selling ads to Web surfers as well as premium versions of its
software with more capabilities, Gorodyansky said. Goldman Sachs
will get a seat on its board of directors as part of the funding
agreement.  Goldman Sachs’s potential investment in Spotify could help
the bank get access to a fast-growing business which expects to
exceed 6 billion kronor ($833 million) in revenue this year,
according to an interview its CEO Daniel Ek gave to Dagens
Industri. Spotify raised $100 million last year from venture
capital investors including DST Global, Accel Partners and
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, achieving a valuation of about
$1 billion.  As with Facebook, Goldman Sachs’s investments in tech
startups may not ensure it a leading spot on any future deals.
Gorodyansky has not set plans for a public offering but said
that Goldman Sachs’s investment will not give it preference over
other banks should that opportunity arise.  “We have got no obligations,” Gorodyansky said. “If we
wanted to do an IPO we could do with anyone.”  Goldman Sachs works with clients “as their needs dictate,
which can mean providing advice or financing, whether debt or
equity,” David Wells, a company spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net 
 Christine Harper  in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  