-- Google to Donate Office Space to Cornell’s Tech School
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-05-21T16:18:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/google-to-donate-space-for-cornell-s-tech-school-in-new-york.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  will donate space to
 Cornell University  and the Technion-Israel Institute of
Technology for an engineering school in New York City while the
institutions’ Roosevelt Island campus is under development,
Mayor Michael Bloomberg said.  Google, owner of the world’s biggest Internet search
engine, will allocate 22,000 square feet at its New York offices
for 5 1/2 years or until completion of the CornellNYC Tech
campus, Bloomberg said today in a statement. Cornell will be
able to expand to 58,000 square feet over three years, according
to the statement.  The more than $2 billion engineering and applied-sciences
school, a Bloomberg initiative, will serve more than 2,000
students with 280 faculty members on city-owned land. The mayor
is seeking to lure more high-tech jobs to  New York  City, so it
can compete with  California ’s Silicon Valley, the home of
Google.  “Technology continues to do more to transform lives and
improve lives,” Larry Page, chief executive officer of Mountain
View, California-based Google, said at the company’s New York
offices, located at 76 Ninth Avenue. “Imagine if we could double
that number of people dedicated to changing and improving the
world through technology.”  Jobs, Spinoffs  The NYC Tech Campus is intended to bolster  job creation  in
the city and may generate 600 spinoff companies and $23 billion
in economic activity over the next three decades, Bloomberg said
in December. Daniel P. Huttenlocher, a computer science
professor at Ithaca, New York-based Cornell, was named as
founding dean of NYCTech in February.  New York is providing $100 million in infrastructure
improvements. The schools intend to hold the first classes later
this year.  Cornell President David Skorton said today the campus will
start with a “relatively small number of students and faculty
from Ithaca,” with the first class of students who will
matriculate through the campus entering in 2013.  Instruction will be divided into three interdisciplinary
sections, one for green design, one for Internet, information
and computers and one for bioscience and health, Skorton said.  Cornell and Haifa, Israel-based Technion beat out six other
bids, including one from  Stanford University , based near  Palo
Alto , California.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York City Hall at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  