-- Google Probe Accelerates as U.S. Questions Site Operators
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-05-22T18:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/google-probe-accelerates-as-u-s-questions-site-operators.html
U.S. antitrust regulators told  EBay
Inc. (EBAY)  and  Yelp Inc. (YELP)  to provide information on whether  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
is competing unfairly, speeding up a probe that began a year
ago, people familiar with the matter said.  The shopping and review websites were among about a dozen
companies that received civil investigative demands, which are
similar to subpoenas, from the Federal Trade Commission last
week, said a person familiar with the matter who wasn’t
authorized to speak publicly.  In its requests, the FTC is seeking examples of Google
failing to follow through on promises to direct consumers to
websites that compete with its own services, according to the
person and three others familiar with the matter, who also
weren’t authorized to publicly comment.  Agency officials also asked if Google, the world’s most
popular search engine, is selling rivals prime advertising space
on search results pages, according to the four.  Companies receiving demands also include NexTag Inc. and
TheFind Inc., which run shopping websites, two of the people
said.  Mistique Cano, a spokeswoman for  Mountain View , California-
based Google, and Cecelia Prewett, an FTC spokeswoman, declined
to comment.  Changes in Results  The FTC wants to know the impact of changes Google made in
February 2011 to the mathematical formulas that rank its search
results, two of the people said. Some websites reported losing
almost half of their user traffic following the changes.  Allegations made by Yelp that Google uses other sites’
content without permission in its search results also are being
investigated, one of the people said.  The FTC, which has sent out previous legal demands to
Google and companies including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , is examining
rivals’ complaints that Google favors its own services in search
results. In November, Gary Reback, a lawyer who represents
Internet companies, including NexTag and TheFind, urged the
agency to immediately seek information from shopping websites.  The new demands for information are “a great step in the
right direction,” Reback said. “I just don’t know how big of a
step it is.”  Litigator Hired  Reback declined to say whether his clients received the FTC
demands. Dave Cook, vice president of marketing for TheFind,
declined to comment on the FTC requests. Luther Lowe, a
spokesman for Yelp, declined to comment, as did Shannon Eis, a
NexTag spokeswoman. Johnna Hoff, an EBay spokeswoman didn’t
respond to an e-mail and phone calls.  Last month the agency hired  Beth Wilkinson , a top
 Washington  litigator, to run the antitrust investigation,
signaling that the agency may be preparing to sue Google.  Joaquin Almunia , the European Commission’s antitrust chief,
told reporters yesterday that Google has a “matter of weeks”
to resolve a probe and avoid possible fines over allegations of
discriminating against competitors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington
at   sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 