-- Greek Voters Need to Look Beyond Syriza’s Dangerous Lies
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-21T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/greek-voters-need-to-look-beyond-syriza-s-dangerous-lies.html
Shortly before  Francois Hollande  was
elected president of  France , he went to  London  to reassure the
financial community that he wasn’t “dangerous.” Alexis Tsipras,
the breakout phenomenon of Greece’s recent parliamentary
elections, is on a similar European tour this week -- and he really
is dangerous.  Tsipras and his  Syriza  party are selling the Greek people a
falsehood: namely, that Greece can renounce the terms of its
bailout agreements with the euro-area governments and still
receive their money. If voters believe him, and he attracts
enough votes in elections on June 17 to follow through with his
threats, then his country,  Europe  and the global economy will
live for years with the consequences.  Until a few weeks ago, Tsipras was a marginal career
radical. He joined the Communist youth party in high school, is
a fan of Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  and now heads Syriza,
a quixotic coalition of small leftist parties. When he was made
 president  of one of them, Synaspismos, the party announcement
described their “comrade” as someone who “attended all the
international protests and marches against neoliberal
globalization.”  Now 37 years old, Tsipras says he wants Greece to stay in
the euro area. Yet, if he tears up the bailout agreements and
Greece defaults on its remaining debts, how will that be
possible? When challenged, he says Greece’s creditors are
bluffing when they threaten to pull the plug. They know,
according to Tsipras, that a Greek exit from the euro could pull
down the economy of the entire continent, so they won’t risk it.  Maybe -- but stop to think about that. If Tsipras believes
what he’s saying, then he’s willing to gamble with the future of
Greece and that of an entire continent in order to play poker
with German Chancellor   Angela Merkel . Other Greek politicians
say they’ll seek to renegotiate the austerity package, and
Europe may now listen. But Tsipras says he’ll tear up the
agreement, forcing a showdown.  What if he doesn’t believe what he’s saying and he knows
Greece would probably be cut loose? In that case, he is placing
his own country at risk of a chaotic meltdown in order to gain
power. In the first case he is being reckless, in the second,
cynical.  Bloomberg View has criticized the piecemeal, austerity-
alone strategy that the euro area, led by  Germany , has taken to
the sovereign debt crisis. We’ve welcomed the shift in debate to
focus on more measures to boost growth since Hollande’s
election, even if we don’t agree with his proposals for France.
Tsipras says he wants to lead a pro-growth change of course for
all of Europe. That would be fine, except that what’s being
discussed in Europe has nothing to do with what he’s selling to
Greek voters.  Greece’s  stock market  plummeted last week, when Tsipras
said he planned to nationalize the country’s banks and to tear
up the austerity program in its entirety. That included,
specifically, refusing to cut 150,000 public servants. This
isn’t a dispute between politicians or countries, he  told  the
 Guardian newspaper : “It’s a war between peoples and capitalism,
and Greece is on the frontline of that war.”  In Greece, at least, capitalism was not the cause of the
crisis; the culprit was a vastly oversized and incompetent
bureaucracy,  built  over decades by essentially corrupt
governments. Worse, much of the austerity that’s now causing
genuine pain and disorientation among ordinary Greeks is also a
result of the failure of previous Greek governments to follow
through on the terms of the first bailout package they were
given. That has bunched the fiscal tightening forward.  Tsipras hardly has a mandate -- he won 16.8 percent of the
vote on May 6, and may increase that to 20 percent or more in
June. But polls suggest Syriza is now fighting for first place
with the center-right New Democracy party. In  Greece , that
matters, because the top party gets an extra 50 seats in the
300-seat parliament.  Europe’s politicians, across the political spectrum, need
to make clear the distinction between Syriza and other parties
that disagree with Europe’s austerity strategy. They need to
say, repeatedly, that they want to help Greece, but they cannot,
and it cannot remain in the euro, if its leaders simply abandon
the commitments the country signed.  Greeks need to know that when they vote on June 17. And
they need to know that what Syriza and its young leader are
telling them is a lie.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  shareholder revolts ;
 Edward Glaeser  on the  meaning of the latest job numbers ;  Jeffrey
Goldberg  on the  TSA and underwear bombers ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on
 Mitt Romney ’s  health-care plans ; William Pesek on  Japan’s asset
bubble ; Meghan L. O’Sullivan on  Israel’s natural-gas bonanza ;
 Mark Taylor  on  the future of online education .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 