-- Gregory Jaczko Resigns as Chairman of Nuclear Commission
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-05-21T21:54:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/gregory-jaczko-resigns-as-chairman-of-nuclear-commission.html
U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  said he is resigning, as lawmakers,
colleagues and an independent watchdog criticize what they said
is a bullying style and mistreatment of female employees.  “This is the appropriate time to continue my efforts to
ensure public safety in a different forum,” Jaczko said today
in a statement. “My responsibility and commitment to safety
will continue to be my paramount priority after I leave the
commission and until my successor is confirmed.” In an
interview, he said disputes with NRC colleagues weren’t a reason
for his decision.  Jaczko, 41, whose term expires in June 2013, has been
faulted for his management by other commissioners and in a
report by the agency inspector general last year. President
 Barack Obama  intends to nominate a successor soon,  Clark Stevens , a White House spokesman, said today in an e-mail.  The new chairman will have to take the lead on a range of
nuclear-energy issues including a potential atomic-waste
repository at Nevada’s Yucca Mountain, regulations to be adopted
in response to  Japan ’s disaster last year and license extensions
for an aging fleet of reactors. The five-member commission this
year awarded  Southern Co. (SO)  and  Scana Corp. (SCG)  the first U.S. permits
to build new reactors in more than 30 years, a decision that
Jaczko opposed.  Commissioners’ Disagreements  The decision to resign more than a year before his term
ends wasn’t influenced by recent disputes with other
commissioners, who said in a letter they had “grave concerns”
about his intimidation and bullying of staff.  “Some of those instances of the past six months or so
really had nothing to do with my decision,” Jaczko said today
in a phone interview. The chairman has denied allegations he
verbally abused female employees, as claimed by one
commissioner.  Jaczko said he wanted to make his “intentions clear” and
give Obama and the Senate enough time to confirm his
replacement, he said. NRC commissioners were notified by e-mail
earlier today, he said in the interview.  The U.S. nuclear-power industry has differed with Jaczko on
how best to achieve safety goals, said Marvin Fertel, chief
executive officer of the Nuclear Energy Institute, a Washington-
based industry group that includes members such as  Progress
Energy Inc. (PGN) ,  PG&E Corp. (PCG)  and  Xcel Energy Inc. (XEL)   ‘Open Lines’  “To his credit, we’ve always had open lines of
communications and a willingness to respectfully discuss the
issues,” especially since the triple-meltdown at Japan’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant in March 2011, Fertel said in a
statement. The industry wants the White House to name a
replacement quickly, he said.  The chairman, who returned last week from a vacation,
disclosed his decision to his staff at 10:22 a.m. Washington
time,  Eliot Brenner , an agency spokesman, said.  Jaczko wants to give Obama “maximum time” to find a
successor, Brenner said in an interview at the agency’s
headquarters in Rockville,  Maryland . Jaczko notified the
president in a letter to White House Chief of Staff  Jacob Lew ,
according to Brenner.  Jaczko’s tense relationship with his colleagues was
disclosed in an Oct. 13 letter from the four commissioners to
the White House complaining that the NRC chairman bullied career
staff and attempted to intimidate an independent panel of
technical advisers. The letter to then-White House Chief of
Staff  William Daley  was released Dec. 9 by Republicans on the
House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. Jaczko denied
the allegations.  ‘Ugly Chapter’  “The resignation of Chairman Jaczko will close an ugly
chapter and allow the  Nuclear Regulatory Commission  to focus on
its mission -- ensuring the safe operations of the nation’s
nuclear plants,” Representative Darrell Issa, a California
Republican and chairman of the oversight committee investigating
the accusations, said in a statement.  Senator James Inhofe, an Oklahoma Republican, said Jaczko
made the right decision to step down after “inappropriate
behavior” that he said undermined the mission of the agency.  “Throughout his time at the NRC, it was abundantly clear
that Chairman Jaczko used his office to undermine the NRC to the
point that all four of his fellow commissioners wrote to the
President to ask for assistance as a last resort,” Inhofe said
in a statement.  Yucca Mountain  Jaczko on April 20 denied allegations that he mistreats
female colleagues and said the agency’s inspector general is
preparing another report. The watchdog on June 6 in a report
said Jaczko improperly ended consideration of a proposed
nuclear-waste disposal facility at Yucca Mountain. Jaczko denied
any wrongdoing.  Senator  Bernie Sanders , a Vermont independent, said Obama
must nominate a new NRC chairman who will stand up to industry
pressure as he said Jaczko did.  “Chairman Jaczko was subjected to repeated personal
attacks made by some of his colleagues and pro-industry
advocates in Congress,” Sanders said in a statement.  The Union of Concerned Scientists, an advocate for better
oversight of nuclear-power plants, said the resignation robs the
agency of a regulator committed to public health and safety.  “Jaczko often took a more cautious approach on plant
safety and security than his colleagues,”  Edwin Lyman , senior
scientist at the Cambridge, Massachusetts, group, said in a
statement. “He generally supported larger safety margins in the
face of uncertainty.”  ‘Verbal Assault’  The NRC chairman, a former aide to Senate Majority Leader
Harry Reid, a  Nevada  Democrat, aimed a “raging verbal assault”
at three female agency staff members in separate encounters, NRC
Commissioner William Magwood told the House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee in December, a charge that the NRC
chairman then denied.  “He dedicated his tenure to improving the safety of
nuclear energy, and his leadership during the Fukushima nuclear
crisis protected millions of Americans,” Reid said in an e-
mailed statement.  Jaczko was nominated to the commission by President  George W. Bush  in 2005. In 2009, President Barack Obama named him
chairman of the agency, which regulates safety at 104 commercial
nuclear reactors.  Prior to his tenure on the commission, Jaczko worked for
Reid in the Senate, for Representative  Edward Markey , a
Massachusetts Democrat and was an adjunct professor teaching
science and policy at  Georgetown University . He has a doctorate
in physics.  “Greg has led a Sisyphean fight against some of the
nuclear industry’s most entrenched opponents of strong, lasting
safety regulations, often serving as the lone vote in support of
much-needed safety upgrades recommended by the Commission’s
safety staff,” Markey said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  