-- Gucci-Crazy Chinese Fuel Soaring Shop Rents in Hong Kong
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-05-22T09:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/gucci-crazy-chinese-fuel-soaring-shop-rents-in-hong-kong.html
Soundwill Holdings Ltd. (878)  was forced to
sell many of its properties as it battled to survive  Hong Kong ’s
real estate crash in the late 1990s. Even after its stock
plunged 99 percent and debt obligations loomed, it held on to a
40-story tower on a tucked-away street that today is the second-
most expensive retail strip in the world.  Russell Street in the Causeway Bay district trails only  New
York ’s Fifth Avenue in terms of average retail rents, fueled by
mainland Chinese shoppers seeking tax-free Gucci handbags and
Rolex watches. Shares of Soundwill are up more than sixfold
since the beginning of 2009, the most among the 50 biggest
developers listed in Hong Kong.  “We’ve always believed in the potential of Russell
Street,” Victor Chan, a director of the company his parents
founded three decades ago, said in an interview at its
headquarters in  Soundwill Plaza , the building with almost 20,000
square feet (1,860 square meters) of shopping space that the
company refused to give up. “We’re in the right place at the
right time. This place has helped us enormously.”  Hong Kong landlords such as Soundwill and  Wharf Holdings
Ltd. (4)  are benefitting as shoppers from other parts of China drive
up retail sales, intensifying competition for stores. Average
retail rents in the city may rise as much as 15 percent in 2012,
according to broker Savills Plc. Average rents on Russell Street
are $2,472 a square foot compared with $2,500 a square foot on
New York’s Fifth Avenue, according to Cushman & Wakefield Inc.  Landlord Shares  Soundwill advanced 2.6 percent to HK$11.96 at the close of
trading in Hong Kong. Wharf, which runs the 1 million-square-
foot Times Square shopping mall opposite Soundwill Plaza,
climbed 2.5 percent to HK$41.40, while  Emperor International
Holdings (163)  Ltd., another Russell Street landlord, rose 3.9 percent
to HK$1.34. Hysan Development Co., the biggest landlord in
 Causeway Bay , fell 0.5 percent after rising as much as 1.3
percent.  Wharf has gained 90 percent since early 2009. Hysan has
risen about 150 percent in the period, while Emperor has jumped
116 percent. The Hang Seng Property Index, which tracks the
performance of the city’s seven-biggest developers and doesn’t
include the landlords, has risen 28 percent in that time. The
index advanced 1.6 percent today, compared with a 0.6 percent
gain in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  “Hong Kong is a first-class shopping mecca,” said Sigrid Zialcita, Singapore-based head of research for the Asia-Pacific
region at broker Cushman. “I won’t be surprised if by the end
of this year we see Causeway Bay exceeding the Fifth Avenue as a
retail hub.”  Chinese Shoppers  Across Hong Kong, average retail rents have climbed for
seven of the past eight years as fashion and luxury brands bet
Chinese shoppers will keep up their consumption in the city,
according to London-based Savills. Hong Kong and neighbor Macau
are the only places in the country with no consumption taxes.  Visitors from the mainland rose 24 percent in 2011 from a
year earlier to 28 million, or 67 percent of tourists to the
city, according to Hong Kong Tourism Board statistics. Spending
by all tourists rose 21 percent to HK$253 billion ($33 billion),
the board said.  Even as  China ’s economic growth slows, a lack of new
shopping space in Hong Kong will help support rents, said Joe
Lin, senior director for retail services at broker CBRE Group
Inc. Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao set a growth target of 7.5
percent this year, from an 8 percent goal in place since 2005.  “Supply of new space is still limited,” Lin said. “Many
luxury and fashion brands are still very aggressive with their
expansion plans and want to set up their flagship stores here.”  The Flying Winemaker  Demand for retail space in the Central district also is
escalating. Inditex SA’s Zara, the Spanish clothing retailer,
has agreed to lease a 55,000-square-foot shop on Queen’s Road
Central, the main shopping street, for HK$11 million a month,
the Ming Pao newspaper reported on April 16, citing unidentified
people. The shop is currently occupied by  Sweden ’s Hennes &
Mauritz AB,  Europe ’s second-largest clothing retailer, which is
paying HK$5 million a month, according to the report.  Inditex-owned Massimo Dutti and Cos, a brand owned by H&M,
are also opening shops along Queen’s Road Central, where watch
shops and jewelers abound.  “High rents aside, tenants in Hong Kong have little
bargaining power,” said Eddie McDougall, owner of the liquor
seller the Flying Winemaker. McDougall opened his shop in
November in Lan Kwai Fong, the bar and restaurant area near
Central.  He spent almost six months looking for a shop. He said
rents along Queen’s Road Central were too high, while mall
operators such as the IFC put him on a one-year waiting list.  Dunhill, Westwood  Retail sales at Causeway Bay’s Times Square, with tenants
such as Alfred Dunhill and Vivienne Westwood, rose 24 percent in
2011 with full occupancy, Wharf said in its annual report.  Causeway Bay, a former fishing village on  Hong Kong Island 
east of Central, gets another mall later this year with the
opening of Hysan’s 710,000-square-foot Hysan Place.  Rent from  Soundwill Plaza  -- whose ground-floor tenants
include watch-sellers Omega and Tag Heuer, and crystal-ornament
maker Swarovski, while on the upper floors are high-end spa
salons and a yoga studio -- accounted for a quarter of the
company’s earnings in 2011, said Chan.  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA has agreed to pay HK$20
million a month to lease a ground-level shop in Times Square,
 Apple Daily  reported in January.  Ground Floor Properties  Ground-floor retail rents in Hong Kong rose an average 5.23
percent in the first quarter from the previous three months,
according to  Colliers International . The Seattle-based broker
expects rents to gain a further 12 percent in the next year.  Rents paid by  Midland Holdings Ltd. (1200) , Hong Kong’s biggest
publicly traded realtor, for its more than 300 branches in the
city rose 30 percent in 2011 from a year earlier, as rental
accounted for 12.5 percent of its total costs, up from 9.7
percent, according to deputy chairman Angela Wong.  The influx of luxury brands is driving up retail real
estate prices in nearby streets, making riches for some and
squeezing out others.  Stephen Ho, the owner of a noodle restaurant on Sharp
Street East, one block from Russell Street, last year sold the
1,000-square-foot shop for HK$100 million to a private investor.  “In the future, eateries in Hong Kong just can’t do
business on the ground floor anymore,” Ho said. “Ground-floor
properties will probably be used only for jewelry stores and
high-end products. People from China come to buy those things.”  Lack of Space  Hong Kong and  Tokyo  have the lowest percentage of retail
projects under construction among major cities in the Asia-
Pacific region, according to New York-based Cushman. In Hong
Kong’s three biggest shopping locations -- Causeway Bay, Central
and Tsim Sha Tsui, on the southern tip of Kowloon peninsula --
new supply of retail space is limited because of a shortage of
land available for development, said Cushman’s Zialcita.  Hong Kong’s competitiveness as a retail center may be
tarnished as international brands get frustrated by the lack of
space or driven away by high rents, according Helen Mak, head of
retail services at Colliers.  “If brands can’t find space here they will go to other
places like  Singapore  or even Shenzhen,” said Mak, referring to
the southern Chinese city across the border from Hong Kong.
“There are obviously signs of demand and supply imbalance here
and they’re getting worse.”  Adding More Space  Soundwill will in the next three years add at least two
more retail and office  complexes  in Causeway Bay, almost
doubling its retail and office footprint in the area, according
to Chan. It is also building a 190-unit luxury apartment complex
in the district.  The company, which started by buying rundown old buildings
before reselling or redeveloping them, plunged from HK$180.21 in
August 1997 to 95.8 Hong Kong cents in February 2003 as the
Asian financial crisis, dot-com bust and the SARS epidemic meant
it couldn’t find enough buyers for its properties after it had
taken on too many projects, Chan said.  The company began turning around in 2003, when it became
profitable again and paid its first dividend since 1997. Wharf
shares have more than tripled since the start of 2003, while
Hysan’s have surged fivefold.  “We’ve positioned ourselves at the heart of Causeway
Bay,” said Soundwill’s Chan. “If you’re already in the best
industry and the best spot, what can you do about it when the
market really goes the other way?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  