-- Guess? Copied Gucci Logo on Clothes, Accessories, Judge Says
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-05-21T21:26:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/guess-copied-gucci-logo-on-clothes-accessories-judge-says-1-.html
Guess? Inc. (GES)  copied some trademarked
logos for clothing and accessories made by Gucci America Inc.,
and Gucci is entitled to $4.66 million in damages, a judge
ruled.  U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin decided in favor of
Gucci on four of five trademarks at issue after conducting a
three-week infringement trial without a jury in  Manhattan ,
according to a filing today in federal court. The trial ended
April 19.  “With the instant disputes now resolved and with Gucci’s
entitlement to the relief noted above, it is my hope that this
ugliness will be limited to the runway and shopping floor,
rather than spilling over into the courts,” Scheindlin said in
her opinion. She was referring to Oscar Wilde’s description of
fashion as “a form of ugliness so intolerable that we have to
alter it every six months.”  Gucci, a unit of Paris-based PPR, sued in 2009, claiming
that Los Angeles-based Guess was selling clothing and
accessories in stores and online with logos that are “studied
imitations of the Gucci trademarks.” The trademarks included a
green and red stripe design, a diamond pattern that repeats and
interlocks the letter G, the designer’s name in flowing script
and a square G.  ‘Bad Faith’  Scheindlin ruled that Guess, in some products, infringed
all the trademarks except for the name in flowing script. She
said Guess must stop selling products with colored stripes, a
square G and a pattern with G in the corners.  Louis Ederer, a lawyer for Gucci, said in his closing
argument in the trial that Guess engaged in “a calculated
scheme to infringe on some of Gucci’s most iconic trademarks.”
Gucci sought monetary damages and other assessments totaling as
much as $120 million.  Ederer didn’t immediately return a message seeking comment
on the ruling. A spokesperson for  PPR (PP)  didn’t return a message
after normal business hours in Paris.  Guess said in court papers that Gucci had no right to claim
infringement because it “sat on its rights” for at least seven
years before suing. Guess also said Gucci’s surveys failed to
prove that consumers would be confused by the designs.  ‘No Evidence’  “They have no evidence of actual confusion and they have
no lost sales or diverted sales,”  Daniel Petrocelli , a lawyer
for Guess, said in his closing argument.  Petrocelli didn’t immediately reply to a message seeking
comment. A call to Guess’s investor relations number wasn’t
returned.  The defendants also included Guess’s exclusive footwear
licensee Marc Fisher Footwear, the Max Leather Group and Swank
Inc.  PPR rose 35 cents to 119.40 euros in Paris  trading . Guess
fell 4 cents to $24.47 in  New York  Stock Exchange composite
trading.  The case is Gucci America v. Guess Inc., 09-4373, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  