-- Gulf Sovereign Funds Invest Less Internationally, Invesco Says
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2012-05-21T12:26:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/gulf-sovereign-funds-invest-less-internationally-invesco-says.html
Sovereign wealth funds in the Persian
Gulf region are investing less globally than they have in three
years, preferring to spend locally and increase state programs
in the wake of the Arab Spring,  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ)  said.  New government financing to funds in countries such as
Qatar, the United Arab Emirates and  Saudi Arabia  will rise 8
percent this year, down from 13 percent in 2011, even as they
turn to local investments, Invesco said today in its  Middle East 
Asset Management Study.  “Sovereign states are redirecting revenue and SWF assets
from international investments back to the Middle East,” Nick
Tolchard, head of Invesco Middle East, told reporters at a news
conference in Dubai. “Western governments have approached SWFs
from the Middle East to help with the economic recovery, but
many will fight a losing battle. There is certainly less money
to invest internationally, so the stakes are higher.”  Civil unrest in countries such as  Egypt  and Syria since
early 2011 has prompted some Gulf countries to increase public
spending to create jobs and develop industries. Saudi Arabia,
the region’s largest economy, announced a $500 billion state-
spending program for housing, transportation and education.  In 2011, 29 percent of new money from Gulf sovereign wealth
funds was invested in  North America , 19 percent in Western
 Europe  and 33 percent in the Gulf. This year, allocations for
North America and Europe fell to 14 percent and 4 percent, while
investments in the Gulf region rose to 56 percent. Investment in
local bonds increased to 14 percent this year from 6 percent in
2011, while funding for property and infrastructure are at 13
percent and 14 percent, respectively, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  