-- Gupta’s Davos-Worthy Friends Praise ‘Other Rajat’ Online
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-05-26T03:44:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/gupta-s-davos-worthy-friends-praise-other-rajat-online.html
(Corrects Anil Kumar’s former title in 50th paragraph of
story published May 21.)  To U.S. prosecutors, former  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director  Rajat Gupta  is a Wall Street insider
who fed secret tips to his business partner Raj Rajaratnam so
the  fund manager  could reap millions in illicit profits.  According to  www.friendsofrajat.com , Gupta, who goes on
trial today in Manhattan federal court for  securities fraud , is
a man of “great integrity,” a philanthropist and a victim of
prosecutorial overreach. Author Deepak Chopra and  Mukesh Ambani ,
India’s richest man, are among those who have taken to the
website to praise him.  “I have known Rajat Gupta for 25 years and am pleased to
call him my friend,” Chopra said in an e-mail. “Rajat has
devoted many hours working in fields that are close to my heart
-- particularly in promoting global health through the
eradication of infectious diseases,” said Chopra, the best-
selling author of “The Seven Spiritual Laws of Success” who is
also on Gupta’s witness list.  Friends of Rajat is different from sites for defendants
like  Martha Stewart  or Rajaratnam because it was created by
Gupta’s bold-face-name friends and associates, some of them
billionaires. The roster of endorsers reads like a guest list
from the World Economic Forum’s annual meeting in Davos,
Switzerland, which Gupta once frequented. And they’re speaking
out.  Billionaire Friends  Those who have signed up on Friends of Rajat also include
billionaire Adi Godrej, chairman of the Mumbai-based  Godrej
Consumer Products Ltd. (GCPL) ; billionaire Kushal Pal Singh, the
chairman of  DLF Ltd. (DLFU) , India’s largest developer; Yogesh Chander Deveshwar, chairman and a shareholder of  ITC Ltd. (ITC) , India’s
biggest tobacco company; Analjit Singh of  Max India Ltd. (MAX) , which
sells health and life insurance; and Rajendra Singh Pawar,
chairman of  NIIT Technologies Ltd. (NITEC) , a computer services
provider.  “He’s like a dolphin caught up in a tuna net,” said Atul
Kanagat, a former McKinsey & Co. principal, who manages the
website. “The government refuses to admit it’s a dolphin and
not a big fat tuna, and they’re not going to give up. That’s
what my website is trying to do, tell the story about the other
Rajat.”  Gupta is accused of leaking information about New York-
based Goldman Sachs and Cincinnati-based  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) ,
where he was also a director. He is charged with one count of
conspiracy and five counts of securities fraud, which carries a
maximum term of 20 years in prison. Jury selection began today.  Plutocrats and Friends  The website offers a glimpse into Gupta’s world, where his
supporters -- some plutocrats, some lifelong friends -- point to
the millions of dollars he has raised for education and health
care.  In interviews, they said they know Gupta from the Indian
School of Business in Hyderabad, which he co-founded, or from
his fund-raising efforts for victims of an earthquake that
struck the Indian state of Gujarat in 2001. Others know him from
his time as chairman of the Global Fund, an initiative to fight
AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria.  “Rajat has done a lot for India -- he went out of his way,
and it’s unfortunate he’s got into this imbroglio,” said
Godrej, of Godrej Consumer Products, who has known Gupta for
about 20 years.  “It’s good to bring out the positives in a person,”
Godrej said in an interview.  “Rajat has always been a person of great integrity and
clarity of purpose,” Godrej wrote on the website.  ‘Do Your Duty’  A posting on the website attributed to Ambani, who controls
Mumbai-based  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , the world’s largest
refining complex, praised Gupta’s ethics. He always followed a
Hindu creed: “You are only entitled to do your duty, not to the
fruits of that duty,” according to the posting.  Ambani didn’t return e-mails sent to his office seeking
comment about Gupta. Tushar Pania, a Reliance spokesman, also
didn’t return an e-mail seeking comment.  The Kolkata-born Gupta came to the U.S. as a graduate
student at Harvard Business School in 1971 and became a U.S.
citizen in 1984.  Kanagat, 57, said he has known Gupta since 1987, when they
were both at McKinsey. Gupta went on to lead the consulting firm
for nine years.  Kanagat said the idea for Friends of Rajat arose when a
group of South Asian friends gathered at a party soon after
Gupta was charged in October. Gupta, who is free on $10 million
bond, wasn’t present, Kanagat said.  ‘What’s Going On’  “The party wasn’t intended to be about Rajat, but people
stood up and said, ‘Is anyone else troubled by what’s going
on?’” Kanagat said in a phone interview. At least 30 friends
and colleagues decided to create the site to help show a
different man than the one portrayed in the indictment, Kanagat
said.  Stewart, founder of  Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc. (MSO) ,
started Marthatalks.com after she was charged with obstructing
justice. Stewart, who was convicted in 2004 and served five
months in prison, used the site to keep fans and journalists
updated on her case. Marthatalks.com now directs visitors to
Martha Stewart Living Magazine’s website and offers a free tote
bag with a subscription.  Rajaratnam, the co-founder of Galleon Group LLC, was
convicted last year and is serving an 11-year sentence. He put
up Rajdefense.org soon after he was charged in 2009. The site
remains a legal defense clearinghouse, offering documents
related to his case, including briefs and hearing transcripts.  More people are using websites to get their message out in
criminal and civil litigation, said Lou Colasuonno, who was a
spokesman for Stewart’s co-defendant, former Merrill Lynch & Co.
broker Peter Bacanovic.  ‘Potential Jurors’  “It can help as a vehicle for reaching all kinds of
audiences, from potential jurors to others,” said Colasuonno,
who represents Transocean Ltd., the drilling contractor that was
sued after the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill. “It could also
affect, if there is a hung jury, whether the government decides
to retry someone.”  Also, said Colasuonno, a website can be “the only way to
fight back” when a defendant is being defined by prosecutors
and the press.  Fighting back is exactly what Gupta’s friends and
associates are doing, online and in interviews. They scoff at
the prosecutors’ allegation that Gupta tipped Rajaratnam to
enhance the holdings of a fund the two had invested in.  “Rajat is too smart -- he’s not stupid to do something
foolish, as what has been alleged,” Analjit Singh, Max India’s
chairman and founder, said in an interview. “He knows better.”  Clients Become Friends  Singh said he has known Gupta since 1998, when his company
became a McKinsey client and the two became friends working on
the executive board of the Indian School of Business. Singh said
he posted to the site as a way of giving back to Gupta.  “I cannot but emphasize the unrelenting and tenacious and
persistent efforts by Rajat to do things for India,” Singh
said.  For younger men like Sabeer Bhatia, 43, co-founder of the
e-mail service Hotmail and chairman of Sabse Technologies Inc.,
Gupta is a mentor.  “Everybody looked up to him,” Bhatia said in an
interview. Gupta advised Bhatia when he wanted to start a school
in India and on a later business venture, the Hotmail co-founder
said. Never once did Gupta seek personal gain, said Bhatia.  “He actually followed through,” said Bhatia, who has
known Gupta for 14 years. “He is a very gentle-mannered person,
a man of integrity who lived up to his word.”  Into Court  There’s a chance that some of these plaudits will make it
into the courtroom. While jurors are instructed to not research
cases on the Web, many do, said  Andrew Stoltmann , a Chicago
securities lawyer who represents investors and isn’t involved in
the Gupta case.  “This is a fascinating, low-cost and effective means to
influence the jury, the press, the public and the judge,”
Stoltmann said. “For Gupta, his greatest strength going into
the trial is his background and his reputation. It will have
appeal to jurors during the trial.”  How much the jury will hear in court about Gupta’s
philanthropy was a topic of debate at a May 16 hearing. While
the U.S. has fought to block such testimony, Gupta’s lawyer,
 Gary Naftalis , argued that it was a crucial to the defense.  “Here you have a man by everybody’s lights who has lived a
wonderful, blameless life and then one day, out of the blue sky,
he decides to become a criminal the seventh decade of his
life?” Naftalis said.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who’s presiding over the
case, expressed skepticism about the relevance of such evidence.  ‘Mother Teresa’  “If Mother Teresa were here charged with bank robbery,
what the jury would still have to determine is whether the
evidence showed that she had committed bank robbery,” he said.  Rakoff ruled that Naftalis could give jurors a “quick”
sense of Gupta’s good works and background. If Gupta testifies,
the information can be amplified, the judge said. Naftalis
declined to say whether his client will take the stand.  “If he’s convicted, Judge Rakoff will be taking these
things into account,” Stoltmann said. He said judges can
consider a defendant’s good works when passing sentence.
“That’s when Gupta’s good deeds and stellar reputation will
come in the most handy,” he said.  Naftalis declined to comment on the website.  Ellen Davis , a
spokeswoman for  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , whose
office is prosecuting the case, also declined to comment.  Kanagat meanwhile blames Gupta’s woes on Anil Kumar, the
former McKinsey director who pleaded guilty to passing tips
about clients to Rajaratnam and who testified against Rajaratnam
last year. Kumar is listed as a potential government witness.
Kumar introduced Gupta to the Galleon co-founder, Kanagat said.  “That’s what got him into trouble with this Galleon
thing,” Kanagat said. “He looks past people’s faults. I asked
him, ‘How could you hobnob with these guys?’ And he said, ‘I
thought they were respectable.’”  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  