-- Gupta Trial Has Jury Adviser, New Grandpa on Defense Team
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-05-21T18:02:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/gupta-trial-has-jury-adviser-new-grandpa-on-defense-team.html
As she was for  Martha Stewart , the
founder of Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc., and Frederic Bourke, the co-founder of handbag maker Dooney & Bourke, jury
consultant Julie Blackman was on hand to aid the defense as jury
selection got under way in the criminal trial of  Rajat Gupta .  Blackman, a managing director at DOAR Litigation
Consulting, sat at the defense table today with pen in hand to
provide guidance to defense lawyers as they began picking jurors
in the insider-trading trial of Gupta, a former  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  director. Gupta, who’s accused of leaking illegal
tips to hedge fund co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , denies wrongdoing.  Whether a consultant will help is the subject of some
disagreement among white-collar lawyers on the sidelines.  Defense teams that employed her lost in the prosecutions of
Stewart, who was convicted in 2004 of obstructing justice, and
Bourke, who was found guilty in 2009 of conspiracy in an
international bribery scheme.  With Blackman’s aid,  Frank Quattrone , the ex-Credit Suisse
First Boston banker, had a hung jury and mistrial at a 2003
trial for obstructing justice. He was convicted at a 2004
retrial. That verdict was later reversed.  Defense lawyers unconnected to Gupta’s case disagree on
whether the presence of Blackman, a social psychologist by
training, helps.  Reid Weingarten  of Steptoe & Johnson LLP in  Washington ,
told a gathering of lawyers on May 14 that he thought it was
“nuts” to defer to a jury consultant, saying he has a far
better feel for what’s needed in a particular case.  “They’re almost always a waste of time or a waste of
money,” said Weingarten, who recently won an acquittal for
Lauren Stevens, an ex-GlaxoSmithKline Plc lawyer accused of
obstructing a government probe.  Theodore Wells, co-chairman of the litigation department at
Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP, disagreed, saying
lawyers need every bit of insight they can gather about
potential jurors. Wells said he lets the consultant decide
whether to accept a particular juror for the panel if he’s
uncertain.  Scores of lawyers listened as Weingarten and Wells spoke at
a meeting of the Association of the Bar of the City of  New York .
So did Blackman, who sat in the second row scribbling notes.  * * *  Gary Naftalis  lived up to his reputation as an affable and
chatty defense attorney even before jury selection began.  As he and the prosecutors waited for U.S. District Judge
Jed S. Rakoff to take the bench, Naftalis turned to the 15 or so
reporters in the gallery and flashed an eight-by-ten glossy.  It was a photo of his newborn grandson, and Naftalis, 70,
beamed.  “Exhibit one,” he joked.  That was just the first quip in what may be a stream of
them inside courtroom 14B in  Manhattan  federal court.  Rakoff took the bench and initiated a discussion of
preliminary matters such as opening statements and trial
logistics. When the prosecutor rose to speak, Rakoff immediately
cut him off.  “You look so much taller than Napoleon,” he told
Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky , the subject of two glowing
media profiles this weekend. Both stories mentioned the
sobriquet that Brodsky earned in the Rajaratnam trial, when
deliberating jurors bestowed the nickname upon him.  During a break in proceedings, Brodsky told an onlooker
that he’s “a little bit” taller than the 5 feet, 9 inches
attributed to him in the news reports.  * * *  As often happens in high-profile criminal matters, lawyers
not connected to the case have volunteered to offer their
insights to the reporters writing about Gupta. This time, one of
them is Richard Holwell.  Holwell has an unusual perspective. Before starting his new
firm, Holwell, Shuster & Goldberg, in February, Holwell was a
federal judge in Manhattan. His last major trial was that of
Rajaratnam, who was convicted of  insider trading  and whom
Holwell sentenced to 11 years behind bars.  At least one reader will appreciate Holwell’s thoughts.  “I am sure his comments will be fair and balanced, as
opposed to the usual government spin we receive from you guys,”
Rajaratnam’s lawyer,  John Dowd , said today in an e-mail to a
reporter.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-907, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 