-- IAEA to Press Iranians on Site Visits Before Iraq Meeting
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-05-21T17:42:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/iaea-to-press-iranians-on-site-visits-before-iraq-meeting.html
United Nations inspectors met with
Iranian officials to negotiate wider access to atomic facilities
as diplomats seek to avert possible military strikes on sites
suspected of housing work on a nuclear weapon.  Today’s International Atomic Energy Agency meeting in
Tehran took place before Chinese, French, German, Russian, U.K.
and U.S. negotiators, the so-called P5+1 group, convene a third
round of parallel discussions with their Iranian counterparts in
Baghdad on May 23. The UN atomic agency will probably issue its
quarterly report on Iran’s uranium production this week.  Iran’s top nuclear negotiator,  Saeed Jalili , called talks
“positive” and “constructive” in a joint statement with IAEA
Director General Yukiya Amano, Press TV reported from Tehran
after the meeting concluded. The UN atomic agency declined to
comment immediately on the talks.  Energy markets will be attuned to the talks as Iran, the
second-biggest producer in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, faces tougher sanctions over its nuclear
work. The European Union plans to impose an oil embargo
beginning July 1 and  Israel  hasn’t ruled out attacking Iranian
nuclear installations unless it stops enriching uranium.  The Islamic Republic’s oil exports, already down 500,000
barrels a day, may fall another 300,000 to 500,000 barrels a day
when the EU’s embargo takes effect, according to Barclays Plc.
 Oil prices  have slipped 7 percent this year.  ‘Good Progress’  “It’s crunch time for Iranian nuclear negotiations,”
Amrita Sen, an analyst at Barclays Plc in  London , said in a May
18 interview. “The risk is that if a breakthrough doesn’t come
and the negotiations are judged to be a failure, then it can be
an upside risk for oil markets.”  Before leaving for Tehran yesterday, Amano told reporters
in the Austrian capital that “this is the right time to try to
reach agreement” with Iran to access more sites and people
suspected of conducting nuclear work.  Amano was accompanied on his one-day visit by his top
deputy, Argentine diplomat Rafael Grossi, and the IAEA’s lead
nuclear inspector, Belgian engineer Herman Nackaerts. In
addition to talks with Jalili, they were expected to see Foreign
Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  and Fereydoun Abbasi-Davani, director
of the country’s Atomic Energy Organization, Iran’s state-run
IRNA news agency reported today.  ‘High, But Guarded’  “Expectations should be high, but guarded,”  Cliff Kupchan , an Iran analyst at Eurasia Group, a New York-based
research company, said by telephone on May 18. “There is a
greater chance of a deal, at least an interim deal, than there’s
ever been before.”  The P5+1 group and Iran agreed in April to hold a
“sustained process” of step-by-step negotiations with
reciprocity for actions that would alleviate international
concerns over the Persian Gulf country’s nuclear work.  “Don’t look for the big breakthrough, look for steady and
incremental process,” Peter Jenkins, a partner at ADRg
Ambassadors LLP who hosted Iran discussions as the U.K.’s former
IAEA envoy, said in a May 18 telephone interview. “Iran doesn’t
want to be asked to give up something they can claim is a right
for nothing. They’re going to ask the West what it’s prepared to
offer in return.”  The Persian Gulf nation’s economy has been damaged by UN
Security Council sanctions targeting its banks and prohibiting
imports of goods that could be used for its atomic work. Its
currency has plunged and the country’s inflation rate
accelerated to 21.8 percent in April.  Sanctions Relief  “Iran is going to demand significant sanctions relief,”
Kupchan said. “I don’t think the U.S.-led West will have the
political space in the foreseeable future to provide the
extensive relief that the Iranians are going to demand.”  More than 1 million barrels a day of Iranian oil could be
removed from world markets in the third quarter because of
sanctions, according to Kupchan, who worked at the U.S. State
Department before joining the Eurasia Group.  “It probably will take at least one or two more rounds
after  Baghdad  to reach any deal,” said Mark Fitzpatrick,
director of the London-based International Institute for
Strategic Studies nuclear disarmament program. “The deal in
play is only an initial confidence-building measure, the first
step of what would have to be several steps.”  Bargaining Chip  “Iran will not sign a deal with the IAEA until it can be
used as one of its chips in the Baghdad meeting,” Fitzpatrick
said. “The IAEA report will be a punctuation mark painting the
increasingly dire picture of Iran’s program.”  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said he sees no
evidence that Iran is serious about halting its nuclear program.  “Iran is good at playing this chess game,” Netanyahu said
in a May 18 Prague speech. “They know sometimes you have to
sacrifice a pawn to save the king.”  The Israeli premier said the Islamic Republic sees talks on
the nuclear issue with world powers in Baghdad next week as an
opportunity to deceive.  Some countries favor more than ever using a military strike
to stem Iran’s nuclear ambitions, Russian Deputy Foreign
Minister Sergei Ryabkov told reporters yesterday as he returned
from the Group of Eight meeting in the U.S.  “ Russia  is concerned that an attempt to resolve this
problem with military methods is still a possibility,” Ryabkov
said. “We periodically get signals publicly and via private
channels that certain capitals favor this option much more than
they did up to this point.”  Fuel Supply  Major world powers may offer to secure Iran’s nuclear fuel
supply for a research reactor as an incentive for the Iranian
government to halt nuclear enrichment at the Baghdad meeting, a
European diplomat said today at a briefing in Brussels.  Other potential incentives to be weighed at the May 23
meeting include nuclear safety assistance and a willingness to
cooperate with Iran on counternarcotics, the diplomat told
reporters under condition of anonymity.  Iran ’s progress in enriching uranium up to 20 percent adds
to the time pressure to reach a settlement, the diplomat said.
European Union foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  will
represent the major powers in the Baghdad talks.  Iran has to make the first step, the diplomat said, adding
that a serious commitment by Iran to engage would lead to
further meetings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  