-- India’s Reddy Said to Travel to Turkmenistan for Gas Deal
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-05-22T11:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/india-s-reddy-said-to-travel-to-turkmenistan-to-sign-gas-deal.html
India ’s oil minister, S. Jaipal Reddy, will lead a team to Turkmenistan to sign a deal to get
natural gas through a pipeline, according to three people
familiar with the matter.  GAIL India Ltd. (GAIL) , the nation’s biggest gas distributor, and
TurkmenGas, Turkmenistan’s national gas company, plan to sign
the agreement tomorrow, the people said, asking not to be
identified because the matter hasn’t been officially announced.
India’s cabinet approved the oil ministry’s proposal to sign the
sale and purchase agreement for the pipeline project, including
the price of gas, on May 17.  The U.S., which plans to end its military presence in
 Afghanistan , backs the 1,680-kilometer (1,044-mile) pipeline
that will pass through the country and  Pakistan  as an
alternative to a line from  Iran . The gas will help meet demand
in energy-starved India and Pakistan, which are seeking to
stimulate businesses, boost trade and ease travel restrictions
after fighting three wars since the end of British colonial rule
in 1947.  “There are security concerns in Afghanistan and I don’t
see who is going to ensure uninterrupted flow of gas through the
pipeline,” said Bharat Karnad, a security analyst at the New
Delhi-based Centre for Policy Research. “The U.S. supports this
project but they’re in the process of pulling out of
Afghanistan.”  Gas Supply  GAIL shares  fell  2.1 percent to 313.90 rupees at the close
in Mumbai, the most since April 26. The stock has declined 18
percent this year, compared with a 3.7 percent increase in the
benchmark  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)   The pipeline, with a capacity of 90 million cubic meters a
day, will be completed in 2018 and will supply gas for 30 years,
the Indian government said in a May 17 statement. India and
Pakistan will each get 38 million cubic meters of gas a day and
Afghanistan 14 million from Turkmenistan’s Galkynysh field,
according to the statement.  India’s share is about 29 percent of the country’s  average
daily gas output  in the year ended March 31, according to oil
ministry data.  Reddy wasn’t available for comment when called at his
office. GAIL Chairman B.C. Tripathi declined to comment.  India, which had been in talks to build a  gas pipeline  from
Iran, wasn’t a signatory to an agreement between Iran and
Pakistan to supply the fuel by 2014. The U.S. has urged nations
including India,  Japan  and countries of the European Union to
stop buying oil and gas from Iran, which it accuses of seeking
to build nuclear weapons. Iran has maintained it’s pursuing
atomic energy for civilian purposes.  Gas Reserves  India, the world’s second fastest-growing major economy,
needs to import gas to help offset a decline in domestic output.
Turkmenistan is seeking additional markets after becoming the
fourth-biggest holder of gas reserves, according to a 2011
report by BP Plc. Russia holds the world’s largest and Iran the
second-biggest, according to the report.  U.S. troops are pulling out of Afghanistan as a decade-old
war draws to a close.  After 2014, “the Afghan war as we understand it is over,”
President  Barack Obama  said May 20 after meeting with Afghan
President  Hamid Karzai .  India will pay for the gas only when it is delivered at its
border,  Press Trust of India  reported March 17, citing a person
it didn’t identify. Afghanistan and Pakistan will sign
agreements with India to provide security to the pipeline, for
which India would pay 50 cents per million British thermal units
as transit fee, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  