-- Israel’s Undersea Gas Bonanza May Spur Mideastern Strife
-- B y   M e g h a n   L .   O ’ S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-05-21T23:21:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/israel-s-undersea-gas-bonanza-may-spur-mideastern-strife.html
Egypt’s decision last month to stop
selling natural gas to  Israel  could be a harbinger of
increasingly confrontational Egyptian-Israeli relations, an
indication of a worsening Egyptian economy, or both.  In any case, the end of the arrangement, which provided 40
percent of Israel’s supply, suggests the need for more Israeli
creative thinking and assertive diplomacy -- not with Egypt but,
counterintuitively, with Turkey and Lebanon.  The Egyptian move would have raised greater concerns just a
few years ago than it does today among Israelis, who import 70
percent of natural gas and all of their oil. Then, Israel saw no
alternative to a near-complete dependence on other countries to
meet its energy needs.  Discoveries of large underwater gas fields in the eastern
Mediterranean, however, have changed Israel’s energy prospects
almost overnight. In 2009, a consortium of U.S. and Israeli
companies discovered the Tamar field about 50 miles off the
Israeli coast, with an estimated 8.3 trillion cubic feet of gas.
A year later, a similar consortium discovered Leviathan, a huge
field nearby estimated to hold 16 trillion cubic feet of natural
gas.  Strategic Game-Changers  These finds, and the prospect of more in adjacent waters,
could be strategic game-changers for Israel. A  2010 U.S.
Geological Survey study  estimated that the Levant Basin off the
coast of  Syria , Lebanon, Israel and the  Gaza Strip  could hold
about 1.7 billion barrels of recoverable oil, 122 trillion cubic
feet of recoverable gas and 5 billion barrels of natural gas
liquids. If true, Israel could meet its own electricity needs in
the future and possibly become a net exporter to a gas-thirsty
region. This would bring economic and political benefits as well
as regional clout at a time when Israel’s regional standing is
more uncertain than it has been for decades.  But, because nothing is simple in the Middle East, there is
also a real threat that these gas discoveries could serve as a
spur for conflict rather than economic growth. The Tamar and
Leviathan discoveries are generally accepted to fall within
Israel’s exclusive economic zone in the Mediterranean, although
Lebanon originally insisted that Leviathan crosses into its
waters. Exploration continues, and it could be only a matter of
time before a field is discovered straddling contested
boundaries.  Imagine a scenario in which a new field is found in Israeli
waters but bleeds into the 330-square-mile disputed area where
Israel and Lebanon’s claimed economic zones overlap. It could
also run into Cypriot territorial waters. Suddenly, the world
could face a situation in which  Turkey  insists that the field
not be developed until the problem of a divided Cyprus is
resolved, while Hezbollah threatens to take military action
against what it sees as an Israeli effort to commandeer Lebanese
national resources. (In December 2010, Hezbollah stated that it
wouldn’t allow Israel to “plunder Lebanon’s maritime assets.”)
The U.S. would be pulled in two directions -- one by its NATO
ally Turkey, the other by Israel.  It is just this scenario that dozens of students considered
in a recent  competition I supervised  for  Harvard University  and
the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology . The students, looking
for ways to resolve this problem, came up with two broadly
different approaches.  Politics Before Economics  The first is the politics-before-economics pathway, which
posits that the regional conflicts need to be resolved before
the gas can be developed. This model assumes that companies are
unlikely to make multibillion-dollar investments in a situation
of acute political uncertainty. Depending on the location of the
drilling, the extraction operations could face threats ranging
from Hezbollah rockets to Turkish naval incursions. The
complicated nature of gas extraction, which requires capital-
intensive infrastructure such as pipelines or liquefied natural
gas facilities, means that there would be plentiful targets for
sabotage. (The Arish-Ashkelon pipeline, carrying gas from  Egypt 
to Israel, was attacked 10 times last year.)  Moreover, the economics of the investment would need to
make sense solely in the context of Israel’s domestic-energy
market -- and perhaps Jordan’s -- because exports northward and
beyond to Europe wouldn’t be feasible so long as Lebanon and
Turkey objected to Israel’s plans.  The optimist in all of us might say that the prospects of
plentiful, economical gas should be enough to push conflicts to
resolution. Israel and Lebanon, currently in a state of frozen
war, should be able to resolve their differences, agree on
maritime (and land) borders, and negotiate a mechanism for the
shared exploitation and commercialization of the gas. After all,
Lebanon, which is 99 percent dependent on imports for its gas,
could be a huge beneficiary of this peace.  One might also hope that the lure of energy riches would
bring about an equally historic resolution of the Cyprus
conflict, under which the Republic of Cyprus, an EU member, and
the Turkish Republic of  Northern Cyprus  come to agreement on the
terms of their coexistence. Such progress on Cyprus could
provide a boost to the Israeli-Turkish relations, which have
been on a negative trajectory since the Gaza flotilla incident
in May 2010. If sufficient, gas developed in the eastern
Mediterranean could flow through Turkey, and on to  Europe ,
helping lessen Turkey’s dependence on Russian gas and bolstering
its ambitions to become an energy corridor.  This potential outcome of sweetness and light should
motivate American and other diplomats who may find themselves
involved in mediating crises in the Levant. But optimism should
be tempered by reality. One need only look to the  Caspian Sea  --
where five bordering states have failed to agree on boundaries
for years -- to see how waiting to resolve territorial disputes
can stall development of natural resources.  Agreeing to Disagree  Fortunately -- as the students I worked with pointed out --
there is an alternative to waiting for a complete resolution of
longstanding conflicts. This less-obvious route involves more
limited bargains, which don’t demand final resolution of complex
territorial and political disputes.  Israel and Lebanon -- as well as Cyprus and Turkey, if
necessary -- might agree to disagree. They might choose a
limited accord in which each side states that it does not
relinquish any of its claims or withdraw any of its grievances,
but agrees to start developing the gas and oil fields following
agreed-upon guidelines, pending final resolution of the big
political issues.  Historical examples suggest this model is viable. In 1979,
Malaysia and  Thailand  agreed to a  joint development  arrangement
to exploit the resources of their continental shelf, setting
aside “the question of delimitation of the Gulf of Thailand for
a period of fifty years.” More recently, the  2003 Timor Sea
Treaty  between  East Timor  and  Australia  pushed off the
settlement of boundaries for 50 years in order to open the door
for resource development under agreed terms.  Even in the  Middle East , there have been some precedents,
if less-successful ones. In 1971,  Iran  and the United Arab
Emirate of Sharjah, feuding over control of the island of Abu
Musa, agreed to a joint resource-development plan, but stated
that that pact shouldn’t be interpreted to suggest that either
“Iran nor Sharjah will give up its claim to Abu Musa nor
recognize the other’s claim.”  These precedents suggest a less ambitious approach to
developing eastern Mediterranean gas is worth exploring if more
comprehensive peace efforts prove impossible at the time. Too
often, politics trumps economics in the Middle East. Let this
time be an exception.  (Meghan L. O’Sullivan, a professor at Harvard University’s
Kennedy School of Government and former deputy national security
adviser in the George W. Bush administration, is a Bloomberg
View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this column:
Meghan L. O’Sullivan at  Meghan_OSullivan@hks.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 