-- Italy Quake Survivors Move to Tent Camps Amid Aftershocks
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2012-05-21T11:28:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/italy-quake-survivors-move-to-tent-camps-amid-aftershocks.html
Thousands of survivors of the
earthquake in the Italian region of Emilia Romagna sought relief
in tent cities as rescue workers surveyed the damage from the
trembler that killed seven and injured dozens more.  The 5.9-magnitude quake at 4 a.m. yesterday near the town
of Finale-Emilia in northern  Italy  toppled buildings across the
region, including two factories where four workers were killed.
Three women also died, including a 37-year-old German, the civil
protection agency said. The quake was felt as far away as Milan
and  Venice  and was followed by at least 170 aftershocks.  About 3,500 people were evacuated from their homes, many
spending the night in their cars. Emergency response workers are
erecting tent cities to shield the homeless from a cold rain
that hit the area. In San Felice sul Panaro, where three towers
of the town’s 15th-century castle collapsed, rescuers set up 40,
eight-person tents and planned to have another 20 completed by
the end of the day. About 120 slept in the town’s elementary
school with more beds being put out for tonight.  “This is our new house guys, do you like it?” says
Patrizia Battitta, showing her family the tent they have just
been assigned. “It seems wonderful to me because now at least
we have a roof over our heads. Look at us, we are hungry, dirty,
tired. We slept in the car for two days in a row and I’m still
shocked. The earthquake scared the heck out of me; the lights
went out, everything was collapsing, the floor was covered with
broken things, it was a nightmare.”  Monti Returns  Prime Minister  Mario Monti  abandoned a NATO summit in
 Chicago  early yesterday to return to Italy and lead his
government’s response to the quake and to the May 19 bombing of
a school in southern Italy that killed a 16-year-old student.
Monti will attend the funeral of the bombing victim this
afternoon.  “I want to offer my support and condolences and that of my
government to all the families of the victims and all the people
that have been affected by this quake that is once again testing
the region of Emilia-Romagna,” Monti told journalists in
Chicago yesterday.  The earthquake came three years after a 6.3-magnitude
trembler in 2009 killed more than 300 people and damaged
thousands of buildings across the region of Abruzzo in central
Italy. The earthquake will put further strain on the country’s
emergency response services and could lead to higher costs for
consumers. Monti’s government last month passed a law allowing
for temporarily increasing gasoline taxes to finance responses
to natural-disasters.  Historic Buildings  Vasco Errani, head of the Emilia-Romagna region, said it
was too early to quantify the fallout from the quake, which
damaged historic buildings across the area, including the
cathedral of  Mirandola , the roof of which collapsed. The
Castello Estense in Ferrara was also damaged and a 5.1 magnitude
aftershock sheared in two the Torre dei Modenesi, the medieval
stone tower that forms part of the  city hall  in the town of
Finale Emilia.  The quake caused damage estimated at more than 200 million
euros ($255 million) for the agriculture industry in the region,
trade association Coldiretti said in an e-mailed statement. The
damage included the death of animals trapped in the rubble, the
destruction off  farm equipment  and buildings and damage to
400,000 wheels of the country’s prized parmesan cheese. A 39
kilo wheel of the cheese aged for 24 months can retail for more
than 700 euros.  Anna, who lives near San Felice and declined to give her
last name, said she was woken by a loud boom and her bed was
shaking. She grabbed her daughter and rushed out of the house
and slept outside because she was too frightened to return to
her home, she said.  Factory Deaths  The four workers who died were killed when the factory
buildings they were working in collapsed in the provinces of
Ferrara and Bologna, the civil protection agency said, adding
that 50 people were injured. One worker died at Tecopress, a
company that produces castings and has Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG and Volkswagen AG among its clients, while two workers died
when the plant of Ceramica Sant’Agostino collapsed. The fourth
was killed at a factory in Rodoni di Bondeno.  Ferrari SpA, whose headquarters are 60 kilometers (38
miles) away from the epicenter of the quake, didn’t suffer any
damage, a spokesman for the luxury carmaker said.  Italy suffers about 2,000 earthquakes a year with more than
3 million people living in seismic areas, according to the
National Council of Geologists. Almost half of Italy’s territory
is at risk of a quake, with more than 6 million buildings in the
affected seismic areas, the group said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  