-- Italian Voters Punish Berlusconi, Flock to Anti-Euro Bloc
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-05-21T15:08:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/italian-voters-punish-berlusconi-flock-to-anti-euro-bloc.html
The candidate of comic-turned
politician Beppe Grillo’s  5 Star Movement , which opposes the
austerity policies of Prime Minister  Mario Monti , was elected
mayor of the Italian city of Parma, results show.  Federico Pizzarotti won 60.1 percent of votes in the second
round of the election to 39.9 percent for Vincenzo Bernazzoli,
candidate for the Democratic Party, according to results posted
on Parma’s municipal website, with 98 percent of polling
stations reporting.  Grillo’s party is the latest to profit from rising anger in
 Europe  over tax increases, budget cuts and joblessness amid the
sovereign debt crisis. His candidates also won mayoral seats in
some smaller cities, their best showing since the movement was
started in October 2009, as it benefited in the industrial north
from a party-financing scandal that hit the  Northern League  and
prompted the resignation of its leader  Umberto Bossi  and other
top officials.  “This is a sign that Italians are willing to change,”
said Pizzarotti, 39. “It shouldn’t be read in negative terms as
being against something, but should be seen as being for
something.”  Sicilian Results  The  Democratic Party ’s candidate in Palermo, Vincenzo
Ferrandelli, was defeated by former Mayor Leoluca Orlando of the
Italian Values Party which, like Grillo’s insurgent group,
opposes the government’s austerity push.  The Democratic Party, which backs Monti in the Rome-based
Parliament along with former premier  Silvio Berlusconi ’s People
of Liberty party and the Third Way, won the mayoral race in
Genoa, the other of Italy’s three largest cities where a runoff
was needed two weeks after the first round of voting failed to
produce a candidate with more than 50 percent of the vote. Marco
Doria, who won almost half of votes in first-round balloting,
beat Third Way candidate Enrico Musso, results show.  “Both us and the People of Liberty need to reflect on what
happened” in Parma, Enrico Letta, deputy head of the Democratic
Party, told RAI television. “It’s something we can’t
underestimate.”  Two Other Wins  In the first round of local voting, Grillo’s movement came
in second in Parma with 19.5 percent of the vote and third in
Genoa with 13.9 percent. The party won the mayoral seat of
Sarego, a town of 6,600 people in the northern Veneto region,
while its candidate made it to this week’s runoffs in four other
northern municipalities besides Parma. The 5 Star Movement won
at least two of those races as well, results show.  The group had about 7.3 percent support in a national poll
released on April 20, suggesting it would rank as third-biggest
political force if general elections were held.  Grillo has called for  Italy  to exit the euro while staying
in the European Union and defaulting on or paying only part of
the nation’s 1.9 trillion-euro ($2.4 trillion) debt.  The euro “is an ever-tightening noose, and there’s not
even the comfort of making sacrifices to see some kind of
recovery -- there’s no sign of economic recovery at all,”
Grillo said in a May 9 phone interview from his home in Genoa.
“This isn’t just an Italian phenomenon.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  