-- Lithuania Leader Says Europe’s Crisis May Delay Euro Plan
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 2012-05-22T08:52:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/lithuania-joining-euro-may-be-delayed-by-european-crisis.html
The European Union, battling with its
sovereign debt crisis, may not be ready to expand the euro area
to the east in 2014 when the Baltic nations of  Lithuania  and
 Latvia  prepare to switch currencies, Lithuanian President Dalia Grybauskaite said.  If  Europe  is ready, “of course we will join,”
Grybauskaite said in an interview yesterday with Bloomberg News
in  Chicago . “It’s not only about Lithuania. It’s about Europe.
Will Europe be ready to enlarge in 2014 because still we are
seeing pending a lot of difficulties in the south of Europe,
probably new elections in  Greece .”  The Baltic nations of Latvia and Lithuania are next in line
to switch currencies to the euro, while other governments across
eastern Europe including the  Czech Republic , Poland and Hungary
are slowing preparations for the changeover as the euro region
grapples with the debt crisis. Doubts are mounting on whether
Greece can remain in the 17-nation currency zone as it prepares
for June 17 elections following an inconclusive May 6 ballot.  Both Latvia and Lithuania peg their currencies to the euro
with the official government goal of joining Europe’s monetary
union in 2014.  The yield on Lithuania’s 2021 dollar bond rose 0.03
percentage point to 5.62 percent as of 10:57 a.m. in Vilnius.  Fiscal Discipline  Lithuania is committed to fiscal discipline and to
investing in growth, said Grybauskaite. She declined to give a
specific timeline for Lithuania’s full integration into the euro
region.  “It’s not about the dates; it’s about the philosophy,
about the behavior, about what is useful for Lithuania,” she
said. “Lithuania is doing this phase because of usefulness for
ourselves. It’s not because we want to change our banknotes.”  Eastern European nations pledged when they joined the EU
that they would eventually adopt the euro. Of the EU’s 10 former
communist members, Slovenia, Slovakia and Estonia have adopted
the euro. Romania plans to switch in 2015, while  Hungary  may
follow in 2018. Poland plans to join the exchange-rate
mechanism, the euro’s waiting room and a condition for the
switchover, next year.  Euro Aspirations  To join the euro, countries must meet targets on inflation,
budget deficits, debt, long-term  interest rates  and exchange-
rate stability. Lithuania in 2006 became the only nation
rejected for euro adoption after it missed the inflation target
by 0.1 percentage point.  The government plans to cut the  budget deficit  to within 3
percent of gross domestic product this year from 5.5 percent
last year to muster the euro adoption criteria. The country also
needs to slow  inflation  at 4.1 percent in April, while the
threshold for joining the euro was 3.1 percent last month.  Lithuania’s economy probably will expand quicker than the
government projected this year, Grybauskaite said. The economy
may grow about 3 percent this year, she said, beating the
government’s official estimate of 2.5 percent.  The economy advanced at a faster rate than forecast in the
first quarter, expanding a preliminary 3.9 percent, as domestic
demand strengthened. Economic output rose 5.9 percent in 2011,
the second-fastest pace in the 27-member European Union behind
 Estonia .  Lithuania has agreed to contribute $500,000 per year for
three years for Afghanistan’s security forces after 2014,
Grybauskaite said.  The U.S. has been trying to raise about $1.3 billion from
NATO allies and partners toward the $4.1 billion a year needed
to help fund the Afghan security forces after 2014. NATO has
agreed that all combat forces will leave Afghanistan at the end
of 2014, when Afghans will be in charge of their own security.  Lithuania’s parliament approved having the country’s combat
forces stay in Afghanistan until the end of 2013. Lithuania will
be “present but in different form” through the end of 2014,
Grybauskaite said.  Lithuania has 245 troops in  Afghanistan , according to
information provided on the International Security Assistance
Force website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  