-- Liverpool Approaches Ajax Coach Frank de Boer: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-05-21T06:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/liverpool-approaches-ajax-coach-frank-de-boer-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Liverpool Goes Dutch  Liverpool made Ajax coach Frank  de Boer  the No. 1 target to
replace manager  Kenny Dalglish  and contacted the former
Netherlands defender over the weekend, the  Sun reported .  De Boer, who guided Ajax to back-to-back Dutch league
titles this month, has asked for time to consider Liverpool’s
approach, the newspaper reported.  Drogba Departure  Chelsea expects striker  Didier Drogba  to move on a free
transfer to Chinese club Shanghai Shenhua, where he’ll link up
with former teammate  Nicolas Anelka  on a contract worth 250,000
pounds ($395,750) a week, the  Daily Mail reported .  Blues chief executive officer Ron Gourlay will meet with
Drogba’s agent and the club has to “think about what’s right
for Didier and what’s right for Chelsea,” the Mail cited
Chelsea Chairman Bruce Buck as saying.  Torres Tantrum  Fernando Torres  placed his future at Chelsea in doubt after
saying that he has experienced the “worst moments” of his
career this season and that he wants talks with club officials
about his treatment, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  “I felt they have treated me in a way I was not expecting,
not the manner for which the club brought me here,” the paper
cited Torres as saying. “We have had many conversations and now
the season’s finished we will have more talks to see what
happens in the future, because this is not the role for which I
came and I’m not happy.”  Players’ Plea  Chelsea owner  Roman Abramovich  will decide this week
whether interim manager Roberto  Di Matteo  gets to keep the job
after he guided the club to its first Champions League title,
the  Guardian reported .  The club’s players have pleaded for Di Matteo, whose 11-
week spell in charge has also yielded the F.A. Cup, to be given
the post on a permanent basis, the Guardian said. Di Matteo’s
contract expires June 30 and he’ll speak to Abramovich before
going on vacation, the newspaper added.  Mancini Contract  Manchester City  opened formal talks with manager  Roberto Mancini  at the weekend about a new three-year contract worth 15
million pounds, the  Daily Mail reported .  City wants to reward Mancini for winning the Premier League
title with a new agreement worth 5 million pounds a year and
expects to have the deal done before he goes on vacation at the
end of this week, the newspaper said.  Berbatov Must Go  Manchester United  striker Dimitar Berbatov said it’s
“obvious” he must leave the Red Devils in the off-season,
though he wouldn’t consider a move to cross-town rival
Manchester City, the  Sun reported .  “My time at Manchester United is running out,” the Sun
cited Berbatov, who started five league games last season, as
saying. “I no longer feel like a valuable part of this team.
I’m looking for a new place now. I know I can still play at the
highest level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  