-- J&J-Bayer Xarelto’s Use in Prevention Is Effective, FDA Says
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-05-21T20:10:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/j-j-bayer-blood-thinner-xarelto-is-recommended-for-expanded-use.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s
blood-thinner Xarelto should be approved to help prevent heart
attacks and strokes in patients with a common condition, a U.S.
regulatory report recommended.  The drug works in patients with acute coronary syndrome,
which occurs when a blood clot blocks blood supply to the heart,
Food and Drug Administration staff said today in a  report  ahead
of a May 23 advisory panel meeting on Xarelto. The agency is
scheduled to decide on expanding use of the drug by June 29.  Acute coronary syndrome accounts for 1.2 million
hospitalizations each year, according to New Brunswick, New
Jersey-based J&J. The market for treatments for the condition
may total more than $1 billion. The FDA approved Xarelto in
November to prevent stroke in patients with irregular heartbeat.
The medicine has been on the market since July to prevent blood
clots in patients undergoing knee and hip surgeries.  “The benefit risk ratio for Xarelto appears to be
favorable, predominantly because there is a reduction in”
cardiovascular death “despite an increased risk of major and
fatal bleeding,” reviewer Karen Hicks said in the FDA report.  Xarelto given at 2.5 milligrams reduced heart attacks and
strokes 15 percent compared with placebo while resulting in a
two-fold increase in fatal bleeding and three-fold increases in
major bleeding, intracranial hemorrhage, hemorrhagic stroke and
minor bleeding that indicated a hemorrhage, according to the
report.  J&J rose less than 1 percent to $63.47 at the close in  New
York . Bayer gained 2.2 percent to 51.77 euros in Germany.  AstraZeneca, Lilly  If approved for acute coronary syndrome, Xarelto would
compete with London-based  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s Brilinta and
Indianapolis-based  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s Effient.  Les Funtleyder , a
portfolio manager at Miller Tabak & Co., and Tony Butler, an
analyst at Barclays Capital Inc. in New York, said they expect
Xarelto to gain approval because of its ability to prevent
death.  J&J’s drug “will probably be a market leader,” Funtleyder
said. “All of these things have bleeding risks.”  J&J owns U.S. rights to the drug while Leverkusen, Germany-
based Bayer sells the medicine in Europe. The drug would be
taken twice daily in combination with aspirin and Plavix, made
by Paris-based  Sanofi (SAN)  and New York-based  Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. (BMY)   Xarelto is one of the medicines attempting to replace
warfarin, which requires constant monitoring and dose
adjustments to keep blood from getting too thin and putting
patients at risk of severe bleeding. Xarelto’s sales are
expected to reach $799 million in 2015, according to the average
of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and Bristol-Myers are awaiting a
June 28 decision on their blood-thinner Eliquis in patients with
an irregular heartbeat. Boehringer Ingelheim Gmbh, a closely
held company based in Ingelheim, Germany, won approval in 2010
to sell its blood thinner, Pradaxa, for those patients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  