-- Japan Stock Futures Rise as China Comments Spark Global Rebound
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2012-05-21T23:11:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/japan-stock-futures-rise-as-china-comments-spark-global-rebound.html
Japanese and Australian  stock   futures 
rose as global share markets rebounded from the worst week since
September after China pledged to bolster economic growth while
German and French officials said they will work to keep  Greece 
in the euro.  American depositary receipts of Komatsu Ltd., a Japanese
construction machinery maker that gets 14 percent of its sales
from China, rose 1.5 percent from the closing share price in
Tokyo. Those of  Sony Corp. (6758) , an electronics maker that depends on
Europe for a fifth of its revenue, climbed 1.1 percent. ADRs of
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , Australia’s top oil producer and the world’s
No. 1 mining company by market value, gained 1.3 percent after
oil and metal prices increased.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
June closed at 8,695 in Chicago yesterday, compared with 8,620
in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,690 in
Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index climbed 0.8 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
increased 0.7 percent in Wellington.  “Stimulus measures by  China , a country with the world’s
No. 2 gross domestic product, is positive for the world
economy,” said Fumiyuki Nakanishi, a strategist at Tokyo-based
SMBC Friend Securities Co. “China may stimulate the economy or
markets as the nation’s exports are getting sluggish due to the
European economic slowdown.”  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  were little
changed today. The index gained 1.6 percent in  New York 
yesterday, the biggest rally since March 13, after Chinese
Premier Wen Jiabao pledged to focus more on bolstering growth.
Germany and France agree that they will do “everything
necessary” to ensure Greece remains in Europe’s single
currency, Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said after a
meeting with French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici .  Global Rebound  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index gained 0.5 percent, recouping
some of last week’s 5.2 percent drop. The MSCI All-Country World
Index rebounded 1.2 percent following last week’s 5.3 percent
plunge, its worst since the week ending Sept. 23.  The yen declined against most of its major counterparts on
speculation the Bank of Japan will add to stimulus measures this
week to support growth and weaken the nation’s foreign-exchange
rates. BOJ officials begin a two-day meeting today. The central
bank expanded its asset-purchase program in February and April.
Last week, two bond-buying operations failed to attract the
BOJ’s target for sell offers.  Yen Falls  The yen depreciated to as low as 79.45 against the dollar,
compared with 79.26 at the close of  stock trading  yesterday.
Against the euro, Japan’s currency weakened to 101.71 today from
101.34. A weaker yen boosts the value of overseas income at
Japanese companies when repatriated.  Crude oil for June delivery gained for the first time in
seven days in New York yesterday, rising 1.2 percent to settle
at $92.57 a barrel, its biggest advance since May 1. The London
Metal Exchange Index of prices for six industrial metals
including copper and aluminum added 0.4 percent, rising for a
third day.  The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese
equities in the U.S jumped 2.8 percent to 93.27 in New York
yesterday. Chinese stocks trading in New York climbed the most
since Jan. 10, led by Tudou Holdings Ltd., China’s second-
largest video-sharing website.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  has declined 10 percent this
month through yesterday on concern political chaos in Greece
increases the risk the nation will exit the euro zone and other
debt-stricken nations such as Portugal and Italy may follow.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 1 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 4.6 percent advance by the
 S&P 500  and a 1.8 percent decline by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 0.4 times book
value, compared with 2.1 times for the S&P 500 and 1.3 times for
the Stoxx 600, according to data compiled by  Bloomberg. A
number below 1 means companies can be bought for less than value
of their assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in  Tokyo  at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 