-- Japan Logs Second-Biggest Foreign Asset Haul on Record: Economy
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2012-05-22T06:21:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/japan-2011-overseas-net-assets-were-little-changed-as-yen-climbs.html
Japan ’s foreign investments and
assets grew to the second-highest level on record as companies
used the high yen to make acquisitions abroad, a trend that may
help them cope with stagnant demand at home.  Investments abroad grew 3.3 percent to 582 trillion yen
($7.3 trillion) in 2011, rising for the third year, the  Finance
Ministry  said in Tokyo today. Currency gains cut the value of
existing holdings but encouraged increased investment abroad.
Foreign investors increased Japanese assets by an extra 17
trillion, leaving the net creditor position of the country
little changed at 253 trillion yen, the world’s largest, the
data showed.  Overseas acquisitions, like  Kirin Holdings Co. (2503) ’s investment
in Brazilian beer maker Schincariol Participacoes e
Representacoes SA may help Japanese companies’ global
competitiveness. The nation’s creditor position supports the
sovereign  credit rating  even as Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda’s
government struggles with the world’s largest public debt.  “Today’s report should provide relief for those who are
concerned about Japan’s fiscal collapse in the near future,”
said Daiju Aoki, a Tokyo-based economist at UBS AG. “Japan has
massive foreign assets but this isn’t as well-known as its debt
problems or deflation.”  Foreign holdings of Japanese assets grew 5.5 percent in the
year, with investment into Japanese bonds rising more than 27
percent to 91.6 trillion yen as investors viewed the yen as a
haven.  Rising Yen  The yen appreciated 4.8 percent against the dollar during
2011, cutting 19.2 trillion yen of value from net overseas
assets, the ministry said in the release. The Japanese currency
traded at 79.48 as of 3:16 p.m. in Tokyo, an advance of more
than 2.5 percent against the dollar in the past month as
Europe’s crisis fuels demand.  Japan’s net foreign assets equaled 54 percent of gross
domestic product in 2011, the third highest in the world after
 Hong Kong ’s 288 percent and Switzerland’s 157 percent, according
to the ministry.  China ’s ratio was 24 percent.  Japan’s current-account surplus shrank by 44 percent last
year as the March earthquake and nuclear crisis drove up energy
imports, disrupted supply chains and hampered exports from
companies including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Canon Inc. (7751)   The Japanese economy shrank in three of the past four
years, and is struggling to recover from last year’s earthquake.
The national debt is the highest in the world, with borrowings
projected to exceed 1,000 trillion yen ($12.6 trillion) for the 
first time in this fiscal year, and the OECD forecasting in 
2011 that the debt-to-GDP ratio would be more than 220 percent 
in 2012.  Asia, Europe  The country is also grappling with more than a decade of
deflation, with the  Bank of Japan (8301)  expanding its asset purchase
plan twice this year in an attempt to stimulate price rises.  Elsewhere in Asia, Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  speaks in Hong Kong to the Institute
of Regulation and Risk North Asia on monetary policy at 6:15
p.m. local time today.  In Europe, Norway’s economic growth probably accelerated
last quarter, economists predicted before a report today. Gross
domestic product excluding oil, gas and shipping output rose 0.9
percent in the period from 0.6 percent in the final three months
of last year, the survey of 10 economists showed.  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  will probably have to
write a 10th consecutive letter to Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  to explain why inflation remained above the
government’s upper limit in April, according to a survey of
economists.  Analysts' Forecasts  U.K. consumer prices rose an annual 3.1 percent rate after
a 3.5 percent gain in March, according to the median forecast of
30 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. That would be the slowest
in 19 months. King is obliged to write a quarterly open letter
to Osborne while inflation stays above the 3 percent ceiling,
explaining the deviation and what he will do about it.  In the U.S., sales of previously owned U.S. homes in April
probably rebounded, economists predicted before a report from
the National Association of Realtors today in Washington.  Purchases advanced 2.9 percent to a 4.61 million annual
rate, a survey of 73 economists showed. Purchases dropped 2.6
percent to a 4.48 million annual rate in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in  Tokyo  at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  