-- Japan May Own 76% of Tepco After Converting Non-Voting Stock
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-05-21T10:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/japan-may-own-76-of-tepco-after-converting-non-voting-stock-1-.html
Japan ’s government may own as much as
76 percent of  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) , operator of the crippled
Fukushima nuclear plant, after converting all shares to be
awarded under a 1 trillion yen ($12.6 billion) bailout.  The utility will issue 1.6 billion convertible preferred
shares with  voting rights  and 340 million of the same type of
equity without voting rights, the company known as Tepco said in
a statement today. The plan, which needs approval by
 shareholders  in June, will initially give a state-backed
compensation fund a 50.11 percent stake. That may rise to 75.84
percent once the non-voting stock is converted to preferred
shares with voting rights.  Tepco has been on government support since the March 11,
2011 quake and tsunami wrecked the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
station, causing reactor meltdowns and forcing about 160,000
people to evacuate from towns around the plant. The bailout plan
is the nation’s largest since the rescue of Japan’s banking
industry in the 1990s.  Voting shares will be valued at 320 billion yen and the
non-voting convertible stock at 680 billion, according to the
statement.  Shares in Tepco have plunged more than 92 percent since the
day before last year’s earthquake. The stock rose 3.2 percent to
162 yen on the Tokyo Stock Exchange today. The statement was
issued after the market close.  Rebuilding Tepco  Under a 10-year business plan approved this month by Trade
and Industry Minister  Yukio Edano , the government stake may rise
to more than two-thirds if Tepco fails to meet goals that
include cost cuts and compensation payments. The government may
lower its voting rights to below 50 percent if Tepco meets
restructuring benchmarks, according to the plan.  If the restructuring of the utility goes according to plan,
the compensation fund may convert all preferred shares to common
stock and sell them in the market “at an appropriate time.”
The statement also leaves open the option to sell the equity in
some form back to Tepco to retrieve the tax money used to rescue
the company.  The bailout fund’s voting rights may reach as high as 95.44
percent if all the preferred shares are converted to common
stock, with the share dilution ratio of 2,092.2 percent, the
statement said.  Profit Plan  Under the business revival plan, the utility aims for an
unconsolidated  profit  of 106.7 billion yen in the year ending
March 2014, based on an electricity rate increase and the
gradual restart of its Kashiwazaki Kariwa nuclear station, the
world’s biggest, after April 2013. Tepco estimates that
restarting one Kashiwazaki Kariwa reactor will cut its annual
costs by about 78 billion yen.  The nationalization of Tepco paves the way for the
government to restructure the power industry monopolized by
regional utilities and possibly break up generation and
transmission networks to allow greater competition.  The government has set aside 9 trillion yen as part of the
bailout of Tepco and to pay compensation and cleanup costs
related to radiation leaks from the Fukushima plant.  The government’s new management will officially replace
Tepco’s current chairman and president after the meeting of
shareholders in June.  Corporate turnaround lawyer Kazuhiko Shimokobe, who leads
the government-backed Nuclear Damage Liability Facilitation
Fund, will replace Chairman  Tsunehisa Katsumata , 72. Naomi Hirose, 59, will be promoted to take President Toshio Nishizawa’s job, the company said in a statement May 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  