-- Jobs Vary by State, Showing Why Education Matters
-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 2012-05-21T23:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/jobs-vary-by-state-showing-why-education-matters.html
Friday’s state-level employment
figures remind us that this economic recovery, like the
recession that preceded it, is astonishingly uneven across
America.  The unemployment rate remains more than 11 percent in
 Nevada  and less than 4 percent in  Nebraska . This heterogeneity
poses great challenges to any nationwide stimulus policy, which
will inevitably deliver its supposed medicine both to healthy
Nebraska and ailing Nevada. Attempts to target aid to faltering
states, or industries, slow the positive process of relocation
across space and job. A far better path is to focus on helping
poor people, not poor places, especially by improving education.  Two-and-a-half years ago, widespread travails made it easy
to make the case for national economic interventions. In October
2009, there were only eight states with unemployment rates of
less than 7 percent; collectively they made up 4.4 percent of
the 50 states’ populations.  In April 2012, a total of 22 states had jobless rates of
less than 7 percent. Our economic troubles are not over, but
there are wide swaths of the country where joblessness is back
to reasonable levels, which makes it harder to build the case
for more nationwide action.  Education is a good predictor of which areas continue to
have high unemployment rates. In April, the 25 states with the
lowest share of high-school dropouts among adults older than 25
averaged a jobless rate of 6.3 percent. The 25 states with the
highest shares of high-school dropouts averaged 8.2 percent
unemployment.  Recession’s Lesson  This connection has been true throughout the recession. In
October 2009, when the national jobless rate was at its peak,
the rate averaged almost 8 percent in the 25 more-educated
states and 9.8 percent in the less-educated ones.  The connection between education and unemployment is one
reason for so much geographic similarity across economic
declines. The slowdown during the early years of  George W.
Bush ’s presidency was a much smaller event than the Great
Recession, but the geographic pattern of unemployment was
similar. The 15 states with the lowest rates in June 2003 are
averaging 5.6 percent unemployment today, while the 15 states
with the highest rates then are averaging 8.3 percent today.  Then and now, California, Michigan and  North Carolina  had
high unemployment levels, while Maryland,  Virginia  and the
Dakotas experienced far less joblessness.  The rates in April 2012 reflect variations in the extremity
of the recessionary shock more than they reflect differences in
the pace of recovery. The seasonally adjusted unemployment rate
peaked in October 2009 at 10 percent, and we are now down to 8.1
percent. If patterns stayed constant, we should expect most
states to have unemployment rates that equal about 0.81 times
their rates in October 2009, and that’s pretty much true.  Thirty-nine states have unemployment rates that are within
one percentage point of 0.81 times their  unemployment rate  in
October 2009. Only three states have jobless rates that are more
than 1.4 percentage points different from their predicted level.
Michigan is the biggest positive surprise; its rate has fallen
from 14 percent to 8.3 percent.  Rhode Island and  Louisiana  are doing worse than we would
expect, given their October 2009 unemployment rates. Louisiana
has relatively low unemployment, at 7.1 percent, but this is
actually higher than the 6.9 percent rate it experienced in
2009. Unemployment in Rhode Island has come down slightly, but
remains stubbornly high at slightly more than 11 percent.  Michigan’s Employment Grows  Changes in unemployment rates are not the same thing as
economic resurgence. Michigan’s declining levels reflect some
rising employment, but also a rapidly shrinking labor force.
The Bureau of Labor Statistics  establishment survey  finds that
 Michigan ’s employment has grown 4 percent since October 2009,
adding about 157,000 jobs. The  population survey  finds that
Michigan’s labor force has also shrunk by 147,000 people over
the same period and is now 3 percent smaller than it was in
October 2009. We don’t know yet if this drop indicates that
people are moving to more robust economic environments or
dropping out of the workforce altogether, but a rapidly
shrinking labor pool is no sign of strength.  At the other end of the spectrum, some places with the most
job growth have seen relatively modest changes in their
unemployment.  Texas , for example, has added 543,000 jobs since
October 2009, an increase of 5.3 percent. But the Texas
unemployment rate has fallen only 1.2 percentage points,
distinctly below the national trend, from 8.1 percent to 6.9
percent. The rate has fallen by less in Texas precisely because
that state’s labor force has increased by 518,000, more than 4
percent, since October 2009.  New York  is a conundrum unto itself. The state’s
unemployment level remained unchanged at 8.5 percent from March
to April 2012, which is not much improved over its 8.8 percent
rate in October 2009. The number of unemployed people in the
state has fallen by only 40,000 since October 2009. Yet New York
has also added more than 311,000 jobs since 2009, which is a
reasonable growth rate of 3.6 percent. The combination of rising
employment and stable unemployment rates would make sense if the
labor force of New York state was growing, but it has also
shrunk by more than 62,000 since October 2009.  One way to explain this puzzle is the mismatch between the
establishment survey, which examines businesses and gives us
jobs numbers, and the population survey, which counts
individuals and gives us unemployment numbers. The establishment
survey tells us that companies located in New York have added
jobs, but the population report tells us that the employment of
New York state residents has fallen. While pure measurement
error is always a possibility, another explanation is that a lot
of New York City companies have expanded by hiring people who
live in  New Jersey  or  Connecticut .  New Jersey’s Gloom  It’s hard to begrudge New Jersey the jobs, though, because
it is one of the five states, along with North Carolina,
California,  Rhode Island  and Nevada, where unemployment remains
more than 9 percent. Of these five, both Nevada and North
Carolina have recently experienced sharp declines in their
unemployment rates -- 1.7 percentage points and 1.2 percentage
points, respectively, over the past six months. That’s some good
news.  There is less reason for optimism in the troubles of New
Jersey and Rhode Island, which have certain similarities. Both
states border much larger metropolitan areas and both did
reasonably well in the boom years, when New York and  Boston 
soared. But the recession has meant retrenchment and that
appears to have hurt the metropolitan periphery more than the
urban core, especially in those less-educated satellite cities,
such as  Newark , New Jersey, and Providence, Rhode Island.
 Manhattan  has the mojo to compete globally, but it is harder for
areas that don’t have such an agglomeration of talent.  The travails of  California  have been a running theme of
this recession, but the Golden State really has two distinct
regions. The well-educated coastal areas have come roaring back,
as exemplified by Facebook Inc.’s initial public offering this
month. The inland areas remain mired in a terrible recession.
The most recent unemployment rate in Merced is more than 20
percent, and the rate in El Centro is 26 percent.  The regional disparities remind us of the remarkably
different experience of Americans during and before the economic
decline. The better-educated states and citizens have survived
the Great Recession; less-educated areas and people continue to
face challenges that are unlikely to disappear even if the
economy rights itself.  These differences don’t require one-size-fits-all national
policies. It would also be a mistake to channel aid to
particular places, to try to stop the exodus of people moving to
areas of opportunity. But we should do more to improve education
throughout the country. The best path to prosperity is to
attract and train smart people, and then get out of their way.  ( Edward Glaeser , an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  shareholder revolts  and
 advice for Greek voters ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on the  TSA and
underwear bombers ; Ramesh Ponnuru on Mitt Romney’s  health-care
plans ; William Pesek on  Japan’s asset bubble ; Meghan L.
O’Sullivan on  Israel’s natural-gas bonanza ; Mark Taylor on  the
future of online education .  To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  