-- Jones Lang Unit May Become Top U.K. Subordinated Property Lender
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-05-21T09:58:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/jones-lang-unit-may-become-top-u-k-subordinated-property-lender.html
LaSalle Investment Management , owned
by the world’s second-largest property broker, may become the
most-active provider of subordinated debt for U.K. commercial
real estate this year as banks scale back lending.  The unit of Chicago-based  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  said it
has already made six junior and mezzanine loans totaling 150
million pounds ($316 million) this year and expects the figure
to exceed 200 million pounds by the end of June.  “Our pipeline is super strong,” Amy Aznar, LaSalle’s head
of special situations and structured investments, said in an
interview in London. “We can pick and choose between deals and
sponsors.”  A total of 339 million pounds of junior loans and mezzanine
loans were made last year in the U.K. by lenders other than
banks, according to estimates released last week by De Montfort
University. European banks may curtail real-estate lending by as
much as 700 billion euros ($891 billion) during the next five
years as they shrink balance sheets to meet stricter capital
rules, Morgan Stanley estimates. Over the next three years, 120
billion pounds of commercial real estate loans will mature and
need refinancing, according to LaSalle.  Junior and mezzanine lenders rank lower in payment priority
than senior creditors in the event of a default and the
additional risk means  interest rates  typically exceed 10
percent.  As banks scale back their lending, newcomers can step in to
provide credit and get attractive returns combined with less
risk than they would have directly owning properties, said
Michael Zerda, a director in Aznar’s team of seven.  Funding Gap  Dozens of new funds have targeted the growing commercial
real estate funding gap for junior and mezzanine debt because of
the attractive yields.  LaSalle’s loans helped finance two purchases by private-
equity firm Blackstone Group LP of distribution warehouses in
the Midlands and northeast  England  totaling 418 million pounds.
Aznar said her team is also close to making its first loan in
 Germany .  LaSalle raised more than 400 million pounds during the past
two years to make loans and its 100 million-pound UK Special
Situations Fund I has almost deployed all its capital, mostly
through lending.  “A lot of investors are interested, so it’s logical that
there may be more capital raised in this area,” Aznar said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in  London  at 
 packard@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  