-- Jordan Deficit Steps May Not Suffice as Costs Jump: Arab Credit
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-05-21T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/jordan-deficit-steps-may-not-suffice-as-costs-jump-arab-credit.html
Jordan’s effort to cut subsidies and
tap into reserves may not be enough to bridge the Arab nation’s
widening  budget deficit  as $3.7 billion of debt matures this
year and the energy bill spirals.  The country is drawing on foreign reserves and cutting
subsidies to access cash after its oil and electricity import
bill surged 54 percent to 3.7 billion dinars ($5.2 billion) in
2011, according to statistics department data. Foreign-currency
reserves slumped 11 percent in the first quarter from December
to $9.36 billion,  central bank  data show.  Covering the state’s expenses may get harder without
issuing new debt after the government this week doubled its 2012
budget deficit forecast to 9.3 percent of economic output, the
highest in at least a decade. That exceeds the International
Monetary Fund’s deficit forecasts for Lebanon, Morocco and
 Tunisia . Jordan’s new government, sworn in this month, approved
measures to cut spending by 300 million dinars, the official
Petra news agency reported May 19.  “Something has to give, either they have to tighten much
more than they wanted, which would defeat the object of the
original subsidies, or they have to issue more than they
planned,” Gabriel Sterne, a London-based economist at
investment bank Exotix Holdings Ltd., said by phone yesterday.
“They can tap the markets if they so choose. In fact now would
be a pretty good time to do so because the bonds have done
pretty well recently. That would be the obvious thing to do.”  Yield Tumbles  The yield on the government’s $750 million of 3.875 percent
dollar-denominated bonds due November 2015 has tumbled 130 basis
points this year to 4.56 percent yesterday, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The yield is up 16 basis points since hitting
4.39 percent on May 7, the lowest in almost 18 months.  The country of 6.3 million people is losing money due to
disruptions in its supply of natural gas from neighboring  Egypt ,
where saboteurs have damaged an export pipeline repeatedly since
last year.  The government also increased public salaries and subsidies
last year after regional unrest spilled into the kingdom, with
pro-reform street protests sometimes turning violent. Popular
uprisings across the  Middle East  have toppled longstanding
leaders in Tunisia, Egypt,  Libya  and Yemen, and sparked violence
in  Syria , which shares a border with Jordan.  Salaries, Taxes  Controlling finances would “facilitate getting additional
financing sources from sisterly nations, international
institutions and financial markets,” Prime Minister Fayez al Tarawneh said in a speech to parliament on May 20, the state-run
Petra news agency reported. “Lean conditions can help us cut
borrowing costs and implement reforms gradually.”  To tackle the rising deficit, the cabinet agreed to cut the
salaries of the prime minister and government ministers by 20
percent starting this month, Petra reported May 19. The
government will soon impose taxes on non-basic commodities and
refrain from hiring except for the health and education
ministries, the agency said.  Jordan’s local-currency borrowing costs are rising as the
country’s total debt climbed 7 percent to 14.35 billion dinars
in the first three months of the year from December, Finance
Ministry data show.  Reducing Dependency  The average yield on  one-year Jordan treasury bills  jumped
110 basis points since the final sale of 2011 to 4.875 percent
on April 9, the latest auction, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That compares with yields of 5.4 percent and 15.9 percent on
similar-maturity Lebanese and Egyptian bills.  “Any country in this situation should find ways to reduce
the dependency on the government for the provision of goods and
services,” Jarmo T. Kotilaine, chief economist at  National
Commercial Bank , said by phone from Saudi Arabia yesterday.
“They need to reduce subsidies and scale back the public sector
with privatizations or public-private partnerships.”  Jordan has $3.7 billion of bonds and loans maturing before
the end of the year, and another $4.7 billion coming due in
2013, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The country’s current
account deficit is likely to remain above 8 percent of GDP for a
second year, compared with 2.6 percent in Egypt and surpluses
across the Gulf Cooperation Council, according to IMF forecasts.  GCC Boon  Still, Jordan should have little difficulty accessing cash
due to its new affiliation with the GCC. The six-nation bloc
including  Saudi Arabia , which sits on one-fifth of the world’s
proven oil reserves, said last May it may extend membership to
Jordan, which imports more than 90 percent of its oil.  “Since the news that Jordan is going to be part of the GCC
investors have changed the way they look at the country,”
Samer Mardini, vice president of fixed income and  Islamic
finance  products at Dubai-based SJS Markets Ltd., said by phone
on May 14. “If Jordan were to come to the market, I think their
borrowing costs would be the same as last time because of the
GCC.”  Jordan sold $750 million of bonds at a coupon of 3.875
percent in November 2010.  The state’s need for cash may also grow due to the slow
arrival of foreign aid. The nation got only $18 million of the
$870 million in aid it has been promised by foreign donors this
year, Tarawneh said earlier this month.  ‘Appetite to Buy’  Selling sukuk, which comply with Islam’s ban on paying
interest, would be one way to help Jordan reduce borrowing costs
as it services its debt, NCB’s Kotilaine said. The country is
drafting a law to govern the sale of Islamic bonds, Maher Sheikh
Hasan, deputy governor of the Central  Bank of Jordan (BOJX) , said May
14.  The average yield on GCC sukuk was 4.1 percent on May 18,
below the 4.6 percent average yield on non-Islamic debt in the
region, according to HSBC/Nasdaq Dubai indicies.  Jordan can also raise funds locally as  bank deposits  grew
8.1 percent last year, enabling lenders “to support whenever
needed the rollover of those maturing bonds,” Marwan S. Barakat, the Beirut-based group chief economist and head of
research at Banque Audi Sal-Audi Saradar Group, said by phone
yesterday. “Banks have the willingness and the appetite to buy
Jordanian debt.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  