-- JPMorgan Halts Buybacks While Keeping Payout, Dimon Says
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-05-21T20:42:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/jpmorgan-suspends-buybacks-while-maintaining-payout-dimon-says.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  suspended its
daily stock repurchase program because the bank needs money
to meet international capital rules, not because of the size of 
trading losses, Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said.  The quarterly dividend won’t change, Dimon said during an
investor conference today in  Manhattan  where analysts peppered
him with questions about how the New York-based firm’s chief
investment office racked up at least $2 billion in losses since
March.  JPMorgan agreed with regulators to increase  capital levels 
to “what we think our Basel III target will be,” Dimon said,
referring to international bank rules that require the largest
global financial companies to maintain higher capital levels.
While Dimon said he intends to restart buybacks, he won’t say
when. “We want to box those things first,” he said.  JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank by assets, is under
pressure from investors and regulators to explain how the chief
investment office, which is assigned to manage excess cash while
minimizing risk, made wrong-way bets on illiquid  credit
derivatives , some of them so large that they distorted market
prices. While the loss may increase, the affair is an “isolated
event” and the ensuing  investigations  aren’t likely to find any
big surprises, Dimon said.  Carried Away  “There’s no outcome that will be a disaster for this
company,” Dimon said. “I am not sitting here worried about the
ultimate loss on this thing.”  JPMorgan  dropped  2.9 percent to close at $32.51 in New
York, erasing the last of this year’s gains. The shares have
fallen 20 percent since the loss was disclosed on May 10 and are
trading below tangible book value, which is the estimated value
of the company if it had to be liquidated today.  “It is likely JPMorgan was told to stop buying back stock
by its primary regulator, the  Federal Reserve ,” said Ed Najarian, head of bank research at International Strategy &
Investment Group Inc., an independent research firm in New York.
“Based on Dimon’s previous comments, this is a price where he
would like to be buying back the stock.”  Dimon also told investors today that the CIO losses won’t
do any long-term damage to the company. “If that’s true and
you’d like to buy back stock at this price, the only reason not
to is because regulators told you to stop,” Najarian said in an
interview.  ‘Economic Animals’  The $350 billion portfolio managed by the CIO has a very
short duration and an average credit rating of AA designed to
“very conservatively handle” interest-rate risks, Dimon said.
The synthetic credit derivatives at the heart of the losses were
“a part” of the broader portfolio, he said.  Dimon wouldn’t elaborate on holdings that caused the losses
beyond the $2 billion already disclosed. The CIO has $7 billion
in unrealized gains that may be used to offset the damage, he
said. To book those profits, JPMorgan would have to sell those
assets and close out the positions.  “It’s just not tax-efficient,” Dimon said. “Being
economic animals, we’re going to be very economic in how we
handle CIO.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  