-- JPMorgan Counterparty Platt Says Bank’s Loss May Widen
-- B y   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e
-- 2012-05-21T15:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/jpmorgan-counterparty-platt-says-bank-s-trading-loss-may-widen.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  may face even
bigger losses on faulty bets in credit markets if Europe’s debt
crisis worsens, according to one of the hedge funds that took
the other side of the trades.  “They’re not out of those positions,”  Michael Platt , co-
founder and chief executive officer of BlueCrest Capital
Management LLP, said today in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Inside Track.” “If we end up with a catastrophe
in Europe in the short run, they’re probably not positions that
anyone would want to have.”  BlueCrest, based in Geneva, manages $32 billion. Platt said
a credit fund run by his firm took a “small” position against
JPMorgan after finding “anomalies” in the pricing of certain
 credit derivatives . BlueCrest would make money as the prices
corrected, he said.  JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank by assets, is seeking to
stanch losses in its chief investment office as other hedge 
funds exploit its money-losing positions by trading in indexes 
tied to credit-default swaps. New York-based JPMorgan revealed 
a $2 billion loss on May 10, and CEO  Jamie Dimon  said it could 
increase by as much as $1 billion this quarter.  The bank’s positions were built by Bruno Iksil, a JPMorgan
trader nicknamed the “London whale” because his bets had
become so large, Bloomberg News reported on April 5. Traders on
the other side, known as counterparties, say the market has
since moved even further against JPMorgan.  Hedges Questioned  Platt said he doubted Dimon’s explanation that the trades
had spawned from hedges intended to protect the value of credit
assets such as corporate loans.  “I don’t think they could be described in any way as a
hedge,” he said. “I think it’s a trading loss. They
deliberately put the positions on. The London whale, who has
subsequently been harpooned, put the positions on.”  Platt said the crisis in  Europe  could worsen quickly if
 Greece  leaves the euro, a possibility now being discussed by
European politicians.  “The order of events would be Greek exit, shock wave
across Europe, massive stress in banks,  Spain  turns into the
battleground for the euro, because of the stresses in their own
banking system,” he said. “Then we either get a very swift and
strong European solution or we get a hugely disorderly meltdown
in Europe.”  Platt, 44, is a former trader for JPMorgan who founded
BlueCrest in 2000. He said the hedge fund took its positions
against the bank “in the normal course of our business” and
“not looking to try and cause them any problem.”  Able to Exit  Dimon, 56, has said JPMorgan is in no rush to unwind the
trades, even if adverse market moves produce bigger losses in
the short term. Platt said he agrees with that approach.  “They would ultimately be able to exit this position,” he
said. “I would be looking, if I was in that position,
creatively at finding other avenues to reduce the value at risk
of the book.”  At a conference organized by Deutsche Bank AG today Dimon
called the trading loss an isolated event and said JPMorgan is
making progress in efforts to limit fallout. The positions are
“very volatile right now,” though less so than previously, he
said, declining to answer a question on how big the loss may
get.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Erik Schatzker  in  New York  at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephanie Ruhle  in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  