-- JPMorgan Shows Need to Curb Overseas Swaps, Gensler Says
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-05-21T17:35:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/jpmorgan-losses-show-need-to-curb-overseas-swaps-gensler-says.html
Derivatives losses of at least $2
billion at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  show the need for extending
Dodd-Frank Act swap regulations to overseas trades, said  Gary Gensler , chairman of the U.S. Commodity  Futures Trading (RTSIX) 
Commission.  “We’ve had another stark reminder of how trades overseas
can quickly reverberate with losses coming back to the  United
States ,” Gensler said today in a speech at a Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority conference in Washington. “The bank here
in the U.S. is absorbing these losses” on trades conducted at
JPMorgan in  London , he said.  JPMorgan,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and other U.S. banks
have said Dodd-Frank rules designed to bolster oversight of the
 derivatives market  will hurt their ability to compete with
foreign-based rivals if the rules are applied to overseas
offices. The debate over the reach of Dodd-Frank overseas is
among the most controversial elements of the 2010 financial-
overhaul.  “I think it’s a reminder that when we go forward with the
cross-border application of Dodd-Frank, that we not accept some
of the industry’s comments that we exempt those from Dodd-Frank
reforms,” Gensler said. In comments after his speech, Gensler
confirmed that the CFTC is investigating the credit derivatives
transactions that led to the JPMorgan loss.  Foreign Competition  Applying Dodd-Frank margin requirements to overseas swaps
would “eviscerate our ability to serve clients overseas and
cede the global market to foreign competitors,” JPMorgan
Associate General Counsel Don Thompson said at a House Financial
Services Committee hearing Feb. 8. The  International Swaps and
Derivatives Association Inc.  and Institute for International
Bankers backed House legislation seeking to limit the
international reach of Dodd-Frank.  The House Agriculture Committee last week delayed a
committee vote on the legislation, citing a need to take more
time to debate potential unintended consequences of the measure.  The CFTC will soon propose guidelines for when Dodd-Frank
rules apply to overseas transactions and swap dealers, Gensler
said.  “In the midst of a default or a crisis, there is no
satisfactory way to really separate the risk of a bank and its
branches,” Gensler said in the speech. “Likewise, I believe
this must include transactions with overseas affiliates that are
guaranteed by a U.S. entity, as well as the overseas affiliates
operating as conduits for a U.S. entity’s swap activity.”  Extent of Guidelines  Under the guidelines, Dodd-Frank clearing and collateral
rules may not apply to trades between overseas affiliates of
U.S. firms and foreign-based companies that don’t have a
guarantee from another U.S. company, Gensler said.  “We’ve seen time and again that U.S. overseas branches,
overseas affiliates guaranteed by a U.S. entity, and overseas
affiliates acting as conduits for U.S. entities bring risk
crashing back onto U.S. shores,” Gensler said.  Gensler said he has concerns about the so-called Volcker
rule’s restrictions on proprietary trading being undermined by
exemptions for hedging.  “You wouldn’t want the permitted hedging to swallow up the
prohibition,” Gensler told reporters. “From my own experience,
the challenge when somebody uses a word like ‘portfolio hedging’
is it can mutate and morph into many things beyond hedging
specific positions, and though the statute uses the word
aggregate, I take it to mean still something specific -- that
there is real positions there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  