-- JSW Seeks African Coal to Beat Australian Rains: Corporate India
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2012-05-22T04:31:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/jsw-seeks-african-coal-to-beat-australian-rains-corporate-india.html
JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL) , India’s second-
largest importer of coking coal, is turning to Rio Tinto Group’s
Mozambique mine this year for the fuel as weather and labor
trouble in  Australia  threaten to disrupt output expansion plans.  Overseas purchases of coal to fire JSW’s blast furnaces
will increase to 6.5 million metric tons in the year ending
March 31 from about 5 million tons the previous year, Director
Jayant Acharya said in an interview, without disclosing the
quantity sought from the African mine. Supplies from Australia,
the world’s biggest coking-coal exporter, have become erratic
following rains and strikes in the first quarter, he said.  JSW, which imports all its coking coal needs, expects to
increase steel production by at least 15 percent this fiscal
year to 8.5 million tons, Chairman Sajjan Jindal said last week.
Shipments from Rio’s Benga project, in which  Tata Steel (TATA)  Ltd.
owns a 35 percent stake, will start from this quarter, Rio Chief
Executive Officer Tom Albanese said on May 15.  “ Africa , particularly Mozambique, is seeing new coal
production and that’s good news for Indian buyers that are
primarily dependent on Australia,” said Giriraj Daga, an
analyst at Nirmal Bang Securities Ltd. in Mumbai. He has a
“sell” rating on JSW.  JSW, which had a 3 percent decline in fourth-quarter profit
due to higher costs, gained as much as 2.5 percent to 626.30
rupees and traded at 618.90 rupees as of 9:49 a.m. in Mumbai.
The shares of India’s third-largest steelmaker have advanced 22
percent this year, compared with a 5.2 percent increase in the
key  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)   Benga Quality  JSW expects coal from the Benga mine to meet its quality
standards after imports from Vale SA’s mines in Mozambique last
quarter matched specifications, Jayant Acharya said in the
telephone interview yesterday. JSW has also increased coal
purchases from the U.S.,  Colombia  and  Canada , he said. The
company owns coking coal mines in the U.S.  “As a strategy, we need to source raw materials from
various countries to protect against any risk that may impact
supplies,” Acharya said. “While Australia is a big source,
floods, rains and labor strikes have affected coal output.”  JSW, which expanded its biggest factory, in Karnataka, by
47 percent to 10 million tons in July, failed to achieve full
production capacity because of a shortage of  iron ore , the key
raw material.  India ’s top court banned mining in the southern
state’s iron-ore rich regions in August, citing environmental
violations. Last month, it allowed some mines to seek government
approval to resume operations.  Imports, Exports  Steel Authority of India Ltd. , the nation’s largest
importer of coking coal, buys as much as 70 percent of its
requirement from overseas. The New Delhi-based, state-owned
company, will probably increase purchases this year after its
new capacity comes on stream by March. Tata Steel, India’s
biggest producer, imports almost 45 percent of its coal needs.  Rio, the world’s third-largest miner, will export 4.1
million tons of coking coal to India this year from the Benga
mine, Noticias newspaper reported on May 4, citing unidentified
company officials. Vale’s  Mozambique  unit will probably export a
similar quantity this year, Operations Manager Paulo Horta said
on April 24.  Tata Steel, which is entitled to 40 percent of the output
from the Benga mine, may start receiving supplies as early as
this month, Managing Director H.M. Nerurkar said on May 18. The
European unit will get as much as 800,000 tons, or about 10
percent of its coal requirements, from the mine, he said.  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest coking-coal
exporter, may miss deliveries from its Australian mines after
labor strikes and rain affected output, Fiona Martin, a
spokeswoman for the Melbourne-based company, said on April 2.
Peabody Energy Corp., the largest U.S. coal producer, on March
23 said storms and flooding in Australia’s Queensland state will
reduce first-quarter earnings by about $50 million.  La Nina  La Nina weather events affected the eastern part of
Australia for a second consecutive year. The pattern, which
passed in March, after peaking in January, brought higher-than-
normal rainfall to the area, while causing droughts in the
southern region of the U.S. and  South America . A global shortage
of coking coal sent quarterly contract prices soaring to a
record $330 a ton last year after the worst rains in 50 years
hit Queensland.  Coking coal prices may rebound as early as July from four
straight quarterly declines as China and India seek raw material
overseas to fire new steel production. Contract prices that fell
to $206 a metric ton for the quarter ending June 30 may rebound
to average $225 a ton this financial year, based on the mean
estimate of 10 analysts, steelmakers and mining companies
surveyed by Bloomberg last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at   rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  