-- Justice Department Probe of Credit Swaps Said to Widen
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-05-21T16:20:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/justice-department-probe-of-credit-swaps-said-to-widen.html
A U.S.  Justice Department  antitrust
investigation into data provider Markit Group Ltd. is expanding
to include other companies in the credit-default swap market,
according to three people familiar with the matter.  Investigators are asking market participants about firms
that are owned by Wall Street’s largest banks and whether that
presents conflicts of interest, said the people, who spoke on
condition of anonymity. The Justice Department is also asking
about Tradeweb Markets LLC and The Clearing Corp., which was
bought by Atlanta-based  Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE)  in 2009.  The Justice Department probe of potentially anticompetitive
practices at Markit began in 2009 and also includes questions
over how licenses for clearing services in the $26.4 trillion
credit-default swap were granted. The expansion of the agency’s
investigation comes as regulators are writing rules to govern
the market for the first time to increase competition and
prevent a repeat of the financial crisis.  “The Justice Department is always suspicious of
arrangements among firms that should be competitors but they’re
cooperating in a market,” said Craig Pirrong, a finance
professor at the University of Houston. That can lead to
questions about “the pricing and whether it could be a non-
competitive situation.”  ‘Cooperate and Assist’  “We continue to cooperate and assist the  Department of
Justice  in its review of the credit derivatives and related
markets,” Alex Paidas, a spokesman for London-based Markit
Group, said in an e-mailed statement. Clayton McGratty, a
Tradeweb spokesman, declined to comment.  Lee Underwood , an
 Intercontinental Exchange  spokesman, declined to comment on the
investigation.  Markit provides derivative and bond data to its customers
and owns the most actively traded credit-swap indexes and
pricing services in the market. Its owners include  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , UBS AG,  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , according to filings at U.K. Companies House.  The recent Justice Department questions focused on Markit’s
influence in providing services to the credit-swaps market,
according to two people interviewed by investigators. Questions
were also asked about Markit’s  RED identifier  system that is
used in the credit-swaps market to legally verify reference-
entity and reference-obligation data to allow trades to be
confirmed and tracked, the people said.  Profit Sharing  Alisa Finelli, a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment. The department previously has confirmed its
antitrust investigation of the credit derivatives information
industry.  Intercontinental has a profit sharing agreement with the
previous owners of the Clearing Corp., which the company bought
in March 2009 to provide risk management, operational processing
and clearing systems for its credit swap clearing, Underwood
said. The former owners also included Markit, GFI Group Inc.,
Eurex AG, ICAP Plc and Creditex Group Inc., he said.  The former bank owners of the Clearing Corp. include
Goldman Sachs, Bank of America, JPMorgan,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and
other dealers.  The banks “have economic rights of less than 35 percent of
the total profits of ICE CDS clearing,” Underwood said. “Under
the terms of the acquisition, consideration provided to TCC
shareholders included TCC’s cash on hand as of the closing, $39
million in cash paid by ICE and profit-sharing participation in
ICE CDS clearing.”  Justice Department  Clearinghouses  owned by Intercontinental Exchange and  CME
Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest futures exchange, negotiated
with Markit to obtain licenses to offer its credit swap indexes
and use its products to guarantee trades, people familiar with
the investigation said in 2009. Markit is facing Justice
Department scrutiny for potential anticompetitive practices
ranging from requiring customers to buy bundled services to
restricting which trades can be cleared, the people said at the
time.  According to the people, Markit told a swaps clearinghouse
customer to purchase a pricing service as a condition for
granting use of its benchmark indexes and permitted use of its
indexes by another clearinghouse only if every swap guaranteed
by the company included a dealer, such as one of its owners.  Jeff Sprecher, chief executive officer of Intercontinental
Exchange, said in 2009 that the Markit probe “makes sense”
after the questions about the company that he faced from U.S.
officials.  “The Department of Justice reviewed all our documents
prior to the launch” of the company’s credit swap
clearinghouse, including negotiations with Markit over benchmark
credit-default swap licenses, Sprecher said on an Aug. 4, 2009,
conference call with analysts. “The fact that they’re following
on and understanding how the market infrastructure works is not
surprising” he said.  ‘Lightning Rod’  Tradeweb , a New York-based bond- and derivatives-trading
network, is majority-owned by  Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI)  with the
rest split among Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,
Citigroup, Bank of America,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Deutsche
Bank, UBS, Royal Bank of Scotland and  Barclays Plc. (BARC)   Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News,
competes with Tradeweb, Markit and  Thomson Reuters  in arranging
interest-rate, credit-default and other swap trades between
investors and banks and in providing financial data and news to
investors.  The cost of providing services to the credit swaps market
may limit the number of companies that can compete, according to
Pirrong.  That gives rise to “natural monopoly characteristics,” he
said. “The credit-default swap market has been a lightning rod
for criticism for the last five years and I think that’s one
thing that attracted attention to the market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  