-- Kabel Deutschland to Buy Tele Columbus for EU603 Million
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-05-21T07:49:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/kabel-deutschland-to-buy-tele-columbus-for-eu603-million.html
Kabel Deutschland  Holding AG agreed
to acquire Tele Columbus Group, the German cable television
provider owned by creditors after restructuring its debt, for
603 million euros ($770 million) plus accrued interest to expand
coverage of the country’s pay-television households.  The purchase price will provide full repayment of Tele
Columbus’s debt, Unterfoehring, Germany-based Kabel Deutschland
said in a statement today. The transaction is subject to
antitrust approval in the country.  Tele Columbus would give Kabel Deutschland,  Germany ’s
biggest cable company, about 1.7 million customers. Kabel
Deutschland had tried to take over Berlin-based Tele Columbus in
2007, people familiar with the situation said at the time.
Germany is set to grow faster than any other cable market in
 Europe  as fewer people in the country use digital and pay-TV
technologies, Guy Bisson, an analyst at IHS Screen Digest, said
last month.  “Following a successful closing of the acquisition, most
of Tele Columbus’s customers will be able for the first time to
subscribe to Kabel Deutschland’s high-speed Internet products
and new TV services,” Kabel Deutschland said. “The transaction
will strengthen the existing broadband infrastructure
competition in Germany.”  Kabel Deutschland fell 2 euro cents to 46.16 euros at 9:47
a.m. in Frankfurt, paring the advance this year to 18 percent.  Cable Deals  Tele Columbus, which operates predominantly in Berlin and
Eastern Germany, also attracted interest from  Deutsche Telekom
AG (DTE)  and Unitymedia GmbH, owned by John Malone’s  Liberty Global
Inc. (LBTYA) , people familiar with the process said last month. Smaller
competitor PrimaCom Berlin GmbH, with service to 1 million
households, is also for sale, said the people, who declined to
be identified because the talks are private.  European cable and satellite television companies have been
targeted for $3.27 billion in deals in the past 12 months,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The largest was the
$2.66 billion private equity takeover of Swedish television
company Com Hem AB announced in July by  BC Partners . The average
deal size was $1.09 billion, according to the data.  Ziggo NV (ZIGGO) , the Dutch cable company owned by Warburg Pincus
LLC and Cinven Ltd., raised 804 million euros in an initial
public offering in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  