-- Kazakhstan May Limit Borrowing by State Companies
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z   a n d   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2012-05-21T09:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/kazakhstan-may-limit-borrowing-by-state-companies-zamishev-says.html
Kazakhstan  is planning to impose
borrowing limits on state-run companies after the government of
President  Nursultan Nazarbayev  brought its debt to among the
lowest levels worldwide, said Finance Minister Bolat Zhamishev.  Government debt is capped at 60 percent of gross domestic
product and state-run companies should also have curbs on
leverage and external borrowing, Zhamishev said in a May 19
interview in London, speaking through an interpreter.  “We already have limits to state debt, but unfortunately
we don’t have limits for debt on the quasi-state level,”
Zamishev said. “At the same time we do have big national
companies that are subject to development and therefore they
have to do international borrowing, on a best-practice basis.”  The Central Asian nation used $10 billion from its oil fund
to support banks and companies after credit markets froze in
2008. The economy will grow 6 percent this year, after expanding
7.5 percent last year, the  International Monetary Fund  predicted
May 8. The pace of expansion calls for “continuation of the
ongoing fiscal adjustment,” according to the Washington-based
lender.  The IMF projects Kazakhstan’s gross government debt at 8.3
percent of economic output next year, the eighth lowest in the
world and down from an estimated 9.6 percent in 2012 and 10.9
percent in 2011. The country doesn’t have outstanding foreign-
currency bonds after redeeming its last notes in 2007.  The second-largest oil producer in the former  Soviet Union 
after  Russia  was upgraded one step to BBB at  Fitch Ratings  in
November with a positive outlook. The move followed  Standard &
Poor’s  decision the same month month to boost Kazakhstan’s debt
rating to BBB+, the third-lowest investment grade, pushing it
ahead of Russia.  Quasi-State Debt  “It’s not only about limiting but also the way of managing
quasi-state debt,” Zamishev said.  KazMunaiGaz National Co., whose revenue rose to 2.6
trillion tenge ($17.6 billion) last year, has about $13.6
billion of debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
state energy producer said March 12 it will raise $2.5 billion
selling bonds to the National Oil Fund in 2013, removing the
need to borrow abroad this year. The fund is managed by the
country’s central bank.  “It could have negative repercussions for foreign
investors who are in joint ventures with state companies, as the
borrowing costs for those companies could increase,” Gemma
Ferst, a London-based analyst at Eurasia Group, said by e-mail.
“More broadly, the move contradicts Kazakhstan’s stated plans
to diversify its economy via foreign investment and should be
seen as further evidence that Nazarbayev is slowly but surely
veering economic policy toward greater economic nationalism.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in  London  at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net ;
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Abelsky at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net  