-- Kodak Loses Claim of RIM, Apple Infringing Imaging Patent
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-05-21T21:18:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/kodak-loses-trade-ruling-in-patent-case-against-rim-apple-1-.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ)  lost a ruling in a
two-year legal fight against  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Research In Motion
Ltd. (RIM)  over a patent for digital image-preview technology, a
decision that may hurt the value of assets Kodak is selling.  RIM and Apple didn’t violate Kodak’s rights because the
patent is invalid, U.S. International Trade Commission Judge
Thomas Pender  said  in a  notice  posted on the agency’s website.
Kodak said it will appeal the findings with the six-member
commission in  Washington , which has the power to block imports
of products that infringe U.S. patents.  Kodak, which filed for  Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection  in
January, contends Apple already owes it more than $1 billion in
damages for infringement of this and other digital capture
patents, according to a bankruptcy court filing this month.
Kodak has said a victory in the case may force RIM and Apple to
pay for licensing and bolster the value of patent portfolios the
company is seeking to sell.  “It adds another risk factor, or concern, for anybody
who’s looking at the value of the IP portfolio, because Kodak is
still looking to sell it,” said  Shannon Cross , an analyst who
follows Apple and Kodak at Livingston, New Jersey-based Cross
Research.  Bonds, Stock Drop  Kodak shares, which have traded over the counter since the
bankruptcy, fell 27 percent, to 19.5 cents today on the news.
Apple gained 5.8 percent to $561.28 in New York, and RIM added
4.6 percent to close at $11.50. Kodak’s $400 million of 7
percent bonds in default, originally due April 2017, dropped
8.625 cents to 16 cents on the dollar at 3:07 p.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The company’s two digital patent portfolios may be its most
valuable assets. The patent in today’s ruling is part of a
portfolio of more than 1,100 related to digital capture that the
Rochester, New York-based Kodak is selling. The other collection
covers imaging systems and services.  The judge’s recommendation “represents a preliminary step
in a process that we are confident will conclude in Kodak’s
favor,” Timothy Lynch, Kodak’s chief intellectual property
officer, said in a statement. “Kodak has invested billions of
dollars to develop its pioneering digital imaging technology,
and we intend to protect these valuable assets.”  Together, the technology is valued at $2.21 billion to
$2.57 billion, based on an estimate by 284 Partners LLC, a
patent advisory firm cited in a debtor’s motion it filed before
a U.S. bankruptcy court in January.  RIM, Apple  The disputed patent, which Kodak claims is used in all
modern cameras, covers a feature that previews low-resolution
versions of a moving image while recording still images at a
high resolution. Higher resolution requires more processing
power and storage space. Samsung Electronics Co. and  LG
Electronics Inc. (066570)  have already paid $964 million in settlements
to Kodak for using the technology.  Pender said that the aspect of the patent that was in the
case covered an obvious variation of earlier inventions. He did
say that, were it valid, BlackBerry devices and the Apple iPhone
3G would infringe it, while the iPhone 3GS and iPhone 4 do not.  A different judge at the agency found the patent valid and
infringed by Samsung, “whose products are similar to those
offered by Apple and RIM,” Lynch said. The U.S. Patent and
 Trademark Office  also took a second look at the patent and
upheld it in December 2010, Kodak said.  The case looked only at older versions of BlackBerry
phones, said Tom Sanchez, vice president of licensing and
standards, in charge of all aspects of patents at Research In
Motion. The company hasn’t seen the judge’s full determination.
While pleased with the finding that there was no violation, RIM
will ask the commission to review his finding of infringement,
he said.  Pending Suit  “This patent is about one thing -- it’s about using
multiple processors to do what a single processor couldn’t do in
1994,” Sanchez said in an interview. “That was all made
obsolete when single processors a few years later became strong
enough to do what multiple processors were doing before.”  The patent is the subject of a patent suit pending between
RIM and Kodak in federal court in  Dallas . The judge in the case
offered an early non-jury trial on both liability and damages,
and Kodak declined the offer, RIM said. The company filed notice
with the judge in Dallas about today’s findings.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple, said the company
had no comment.  Patent Sales  Kodak has been trying to charge for the use of its digital-
imaging patents, and  suing  in instances where that strategy
failed. The company sought Chapter 11 protection in January
after years of burning through cash as digital technology hurt
its film business.  Chief Executive Officer Antonio Perez, who took the helm in
2005, is selling photography and patent assets as part of a plan
to shrink the 131-year-old imaging company into a digital-
printing specialist that sells faster, more flexible commercial
and consumer printers to profit from ink sales.  The commission is scheduled to complete the investigation
by Sept. 21. The case targets Apple’s iPhone and BlackBerry
devices including the Tour, Storm, Bold, Curve and Pearl. Kodak
had lost its fight before another ITC judge, only to have the
commission revive the case last year.  Apple sold 152.1 million iPhones and iPads in fiscal 2010
and 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg shows. RIM shipped 102.6
million BlackBerrys and PlayBook tablets in its last two fiscal
years.  Other Case Pending  HTC Corp. (2498)  and Cupertino, California-based Apple were named
in a second ITC case brought by Kodak that accuses the two
device makers of infringing four patents related to image
transmission. HTC also is accused of violating the image-preview
patent that’s in the case against Apple and RIM. That trial is
scheduled to begin in February.  Kodak has another case pending against Samsung over its
Galaxy tablet computer, which wasn’t covered by the earlier
agreement. It also has patent-infringement claims pending
against  Fujifilm Holdings Corp. (4901) , and a breach of contract case
against Ricoh Company Ltd. over a patent license.  Apple has claimed in civil suits that it holds rights to
the Kodak patents because of a past work agreement, an issue the
ITC rejected. The iPhone maker lost the patent-infringement case
it filed at the ITC against Kodak and was barred by a bankruptcy
judge in March from filing a second one.  “We never thought that they were going to get much money
out of Apple, or RIM for that matter,” Cross, the analyst, said
in a phone interview. “This makes the litigation they’ve got
outstanding against all these companies for IP violations on the
tablets much less likely to go through.”  The patent case is In the Matter of Certain Mobile
Telephones and Wireless Communication Devices Featuring Digital
Cameras, and Components Thereof, 337-703, U.S. International
Trade Commission (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net 
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  