-- Koreans Need to Recoup Woori Funds Soon, Regulator Says
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2012-05-22T06:55:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/koreans-need-to-recoup-woori-funds-soon-regulator-says.html
More than 10 years after  South Korea 
spent $11 billion bailing out its weakest banks, taxpayers are
still waiting to get their money back. It’s time to fix that,
says Kim Seok Dong, the nation’s top financial regulator.  The government needs to push ahead with its third attempt
to cut its 57 percent stake in Woori Finance Holdings Co., the
company created in 2001 by combining the failing banks, as
quickly as possible to recoup that money and arrest its eroding
value, said Kim, who is chairman of  Korea ’s  Financial Services
Commission  and the official in charge of the sale.  Shares of Seoul-based Woori rose after Kim said the latest
plan -- to sell at least 30 percent, a  stake  that was worth
about $2.2 billion -- is more likely to succeed as its
operations have improved and Korea’s financial markets have
stabilized. Buyers must place preliminary bids by July 27.
 Woori (053000) ’s market value had also dropped 30 percent since the first
attempt in 2010.  “The U.S. government recouped all the funds it injected
into Citigroup Inc. in two years,” Kim, 59, said in an
interview in Seoul last week. “It’s over 10 years for Woori:
isn’t it time for us to end that?”  Jeong Joon Beom, a Seoul-based Woori spokesman, declined to
comment on Kim’s comments.  Shares Rally  Woori rose 6.5 percent, the biggest gain since Jan. 17, to
10,700 won at the 3 p.m. close of Seoul trading. The stock has
gained 13 percent this year,  valuing  the government’s 57 percent
stake at about 4.9 trillion won ($4.2 billion).  U.S. taxpayers made a profit of about $12 billion when New
York-based Citigroup, which took $45 billion from the government
in 2008 to avert a collapse, exited the bailout by the end of
2010. In contrast, Koreans have recouped only 5.6 trillion won
of the 12.8 trillion won invested in Woori, most of which was
spent following the 1997-98 Asian crisis on aiding local banks
that were later combined.  Prospects for getting back the rest of the money seem to be
fading as the value of the stake has dropped since President  Lee
Myung Bak ’s administration announced its first bid to offload
shares in Woori, Korea’s largest financial company by assets, in
July 2010.  That effort stalled before preliminary bids could be made
due to lack of demand from buyers. Another attempt in August had
to be abandoned after only one group made an offer.  Market Stability  This time will be different, said Kim, who also co-chairs
the  Public Fund Oversight Committee , which monitors companies
that have been bailed out by the government. He has been head of
the financial regulator since January 2011.  For starters, Woori itself is in “ much better shape ” than
it was last year, he said.  The company’s 2011 profit jumped 66 percent to 2.14
trillion won, propelled by the sale of stakes in local
companies, while its assets grew 7.4 percent, according to data
on its  website . The company’s bad-loan ratio narrowed to 1.97
percent at the end of 2011 from 3.3 percent a year earlier as it
wrote down non-performing debt and sold weaker assets.  Financial markets in Korea are also more stable, Kim said.  The sale attempt in August collapsed at a time when the
nation’s benchmark  Kospi (KOSPI)  index fell 12 percent -- its biggest
one-month drop since October 2008. This year, the Kospi had
climbed almost 12 percent by the middle of March, before giving
up those gains as concerns that  North Korea  may begin an attack
and deteriorating conditions in  Europe  shook investor confidence
again. The gauge is now down 0.2 percent since the end of 2011,
prompting skepticism among analysts including Michael Na.  Bailed Out Banks  “I don’t see what has changed so much this year from when
they made the previous attempt,” said Na, a Seoul-based analyst
at Nomura Financial Investment Korea Co. “No clear potential
buyers are on the horizon now.”  Kim says Korea has done much to bolster stability.
Regulators last year clamped down on ailing savings banks,
slowed the growth in  household debt , brought forward a deadline
for banks to reduce their loan-to-deposit ratios, and urged
lenders to secure more foreign-exchange liquidity. The financial
sector has matured with the merger of some banks, he said.  “The stability of our banking system and financial markets
is very high,” said Kim, who has held key roles at the  finance
ministry  and regulator since the Asian currency crisis.  He was the director in charge of foreign-currency funding
at the finance ministry during the 1997 meltdown. He went on to
become the vice finance minister in 2007, according to the
regulator’s website.  Government’s Rescue  Woori was established in 2001 as the nation’s first
financial holding company following the combination of banks and
financial firms that had been rescued by the government as part
of a 156 trillion won bailout of the industry. The stock was
listed on the local exchange in June 2002 after being sold in a
$500 million initial public offering for 6,800 won apiece.  The mandate for Daewoo Securities Co., JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and Samsung Securities Co., which had been hired in September
2010 to help sell the Woori stake, has been extended to this
year’s proposed transaction, Public Fund Oversight Committee
Secretary-General Kim Yongbeam confirmed on April 4.  Hana Financial Group Inc.’s acquisition of Korea Exchange
Bank from Dallas-based  Lone Star  Funds this year and NH Nonghyup
Financial Group Inc.’s creation of another bank holding company
signal that a “new competitive structure is emerging,” helping
to heighten interest in Woori, Kim said.  Foreign Investors Welcome  The government will keep the latest effort to sell the
stake -- in what will probably be the biggest deal in Korean’s
financial industry in decades -- open to both domestic and
foreign bidders, Kim said. Regulators will consider offers from
banks as well as private-equity firms, he said.  Lone Star exited its 2003 Korea Exchange Bank investment
amid public backlash over the more than $4 billion in profit
taken by the U.S. private equity firm. Lone Star’s attempts to
sell the stake since 2006 were derailed by courts, regulators
and lawmakers stemming from foreign ownership rules. The 51
percent stake sale to Hana was delayed by more than a year after
an agreement was reached because of the legal wrangling.  Woori may also benefit from loosened state control and more
independent management, Kim said. The government’s controlling
stake allows it to set targets for profit and asset quality.
“Privatizing Woori as soon as possible is crucial to securing
its competitiveness and harnessing its growth potential,” Kim
said. “That’s the goal under state law.”  Local Interest  Potential buyers from Korea have yet to show their hands.  KB Financial Group Inc. (105560) , which has been touted as a bidder
since the first attempt to sell the stake in 2010, “can’t
afford” to purchase Woori, Chairman Euh Yoon Dae said on April
25. His comments followed a report in the Maeil Business
Newspaper on April 3 that KB was considering a merger with
Woori.  KB will instead bid for ING Groep NV’s Korean insurance
businesses to expand into the non-banking sector, Euh said.  KDB Financial Group Inc., a state-owned firm that’s
planning its own initial public offering this year, also won’t
join the auction for Woori, Vice President Chu Woo Sik told
reporters on May 15.  Kim says potential bidders are being coy because they don’t
want to drive up the price for the stake.  “The time is ripe to proceed with the sale,” he said.
“I’m quite hopeful this time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in  Seoul  at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  