-- New Jersey Revenue Miss ‘Credit Negative,’ Moody’s Says
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-05-21T17:25:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/new-jersey-revenue-miss-credit-negative-moody-s-says.html
New Jersey  missing its revenue target
in April is a “credit negative” and may force the state to dip
into its reserves or use one-time fixes to bridge the gap,
Moody’s Investors Service said.  The second-wealthiest U.S. state’s economic recovery will
lag behind the nation, and its  unemployment rate  will exceed the
country’s through 2014, Moody’s said in a report today. The
company rates New Jersey’s debt Aa3, its fourth-highest grade.  Governor  Chris Christie ’s budget for fiscal 2013, which
begins July 1, counts on a 7.3 percent revenue gain, the most
since before the last recession began in December 2007.  Standard
& Poor’s  said in February that the 49-year-old Republican’s
spending plan is “structurally unbalanced” because it is built
on “optimistic” revenue assumptions.  “We expect revenue growth to remain in line with recent
trends through fiscal 2013, challenging the state’s ability to
structurally balance its growing fixed costs,” wrote Baye Larsen, a senior analyst with Moody’s.  New Jersey’s April revenue miss left collections $230
million behind forecasts for the first 10 months of this fiscal
year.  Kevin Roberts , a spokesman for Christie, said that year-
to-date collections are $500 million above the same period of
2011 and the state still has two months of revenue.  ‘Complete Revenue Picture’  Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff, who is scheduled to
appear before the Assembly Budget Committee on May 23, will
“provide a full and complete revenue picture for New Jersey as
we move through the end of the fiscal year -- not a shotgun
analysis that relies on a single figure that does not accurately
represent the health of the state’s economy in full,” Roberts
said in an e-mail.  New Jersey’s  unemployment  rate rose to 9.1 percent in April
from 9.0 percent in March, as the national level  dropped  to a
three-year low of 8.1 percent from 8.2 percent.  Northeastern U.S. states, including New Jersey,
 Connecticut ,  New York  and  Pennsylvania , reported revenue falling
as much as 2 percent below targets this fiscal year through
March. In April, New York and Pennsylvania topped goals by 7.6
percent and 3.6 percent, respectively, Moody’s said.  “New Jersey’s disappointing April results are partially
related to the state’s more optimistic projections compared to
its neighbors, as well as relatively slow economic performance
in late 2011,” Moody’s said.  ‘Jersey Comeback’  New Jersey’s tax revenue increased 2.8 percent in fiscal
2011 and has climbed 2.7 percent year-to-date, Moody’s said.
Total revenue was 5.3 percent below Christie’s targets for
April, and 1.2 percent short for the year through April,
Sidamon-Eristoff said on May 15.  Christie has been traveling the state to tout a “Jersey
Comeback,” an economic-recovery plan fueled by a 10 percent
across-the-board income-tax cut. He has said the state can
afford higher spending and lower levies now that its “fiscal
house is in order.”  The Christie administration had projected April revenue
would rise to $3.44 billion, from $3.32 billion a year earlier.
Instead, revenue last month fell 2 percent to $3.26 billion.
April is typically the largest month for income-tax collections
because it includes the filing deadline.  Budget Reserves  Christie has projected ending this fiscal year with $588
million in reserves. A $230 million decrease would “tighten the
state’s liquidity” and leave a $358 million ending balance,
lower than in any of the past five years, Moody’s said.  While the April revenue miss is a setback, it shouldn’t
harm the state’s long-term credit outlook, said Daniel Solender,
who manages $16 billion of municipals at Lord Abbett & Co. in
 Jersey City . The state will benefit from the pension overhaul
Christie enacted last year, which he has said would save $120
billion by 2041, Solender said.  “Things are improving, just not at the pace projected in
the budget,” Solender said in a telephone interview. “We have
to see how they handle this in the next month or so; how they
put together their budget and what changes are made.”  Rising pension costs and a slow recovery led Moody’s, S&P
and Fitch Ratings to lower the state’s credit grade last year.
New Jersey’s general-obligation debt is rated AA- by S&P and
Fitch, comparable to the Moody’s level.  Sidamon-Eristoff said in April that revenue for the month
would be “key in helping the administration maintain this
positive momentum.”  Andrew Pratt  and Bill Quinn, spokesmen for
the treasurer, didn’t return e-mails seeking comment on the
Moody’s write-up.  The report will be a key part of the Assembly budget
panel’s questioning of the treasurer, said Vincent Prieto, a
Secaucus Democrat who is chairman of the committee.  “You have to be realistic,” Prieto said today during an
interview at the Statehouse. “This budget affects the budget
for next year -- how is he addressing that?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  