-- New York Asks Judge to Dismiss MBIA Restructuring Challenge
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-05-21T21:59:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/new-york-asks-judge-to-dismiss-mbia-restructuring-challenge-1-.html
A lawyer for  New York  asked a judge
to dismiss a challenge to the approval of MBIA Inc.’s 2009
restructuring, saying that the state insurance department’s
decision was rational.  David Holgado, an attorney for the New York Attorney
General’s office who is representing the insurance department
and former superintendent  Eric Dinallo , said there is a “very
low bar” for cases under the state’s Article 78 law, which
allows court review of administrative decisions.  “The bar may be low but the department cleared the bar
with room to spare,” Holgado said during his opening argument
today.  New York state  Supreme Court  Justice Barbara Kapnick in
 Manhattan  is overseeing a nonjury trial on  Bank of America Corp. 
and  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ’s claims that the February 2009 approval
of MBIA’s proposal by then-Insurance Superintendent Eric Dinallo
was based on inaccurate and incomplete information and therefore
violated state insurance laws and should be overturned.  More than a dozen financial institutions sued Armonk, New
York-based MBIA and the state insurance department in 2009 over
the restructuring. Bank of America and Societe Generale are the
only banks left in the litigation after  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
 Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and others dropped out.  Potential Losses  The banks claim the restructuring harmed them as
policyholders by transferring $5 billion in assets out of the
MBIA unit that insured risky mortgage debt, exposing the banks
to potential losses. Bank of America and  Societe Generale  have
another lawsuit pending against MBIA while MBIA is suing Bank of
America over  mortgage loans .  Attorney General Eric Schneiderman’s office has said in
filings that the insurance regulator approved the restructuring
after finding that all policyholders would be protected while a
well-capitalized insurer would be established for the municipal
 bond market . The state and MBIA have argued the insurance
department’s approval is entitled to “deference.”  The banks have argued that the approval was based on the
“flawed” analysis of Jack Buchmiller, a former insurance
department official who now works for the National Association
of Insurance Commissioners.  ‘Knowledgeable Employee’  Lawyers for the banks said Buchmiller’s analysis was
completed in less than three months and was based on
“inaccurate and incomplete information” provided by MBIA,
which the banks said concealed a Lehman Brothers study showing
its MBIA Insurance was already insolvent.  Holgado argued today that Buchmiller was the department’s
“most experienced and knowledgeable employee” regarding
insurance of structured financial products and had more than 22
years of experience working at commercial banks before joining
the department.  Buchmiller reviewed investments insured by MBIA to make his
analysis, including commercial and residential mortgage-backed
securities, and conducted more than 30 hours of interviews with
company employees and officials during more than dozen visits to
the insurer’s headquarters, Holgado said.  Buchmiller also reviewed models of reserves for other
insurance policies written for structured-finance securities to
determine whether the assumptions used by MBIA were reasonable
and fact-based, Holgado said.  ‘Extraordinary’ Diligence  Buchmiller testified in depositions and affidavits that he
had as much time as he needed to conduct the review, which
needed to be “thorough but also expeditious” because of the
state of the economy at the time, Holgado said.  “The amount of diligence was extraordinary,” Holgado
said.  The trial, which began May 15, is expected to last two to
four weeks. Lawyers for the banks presented their opening
arguments last week.  The cases are ABN Amro Bank v. Dinallo, 601846-2009 and
ABN Amro Bank NV v.  MBIA Inc. (MBI) , 601475-2009, New York state
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  