-- News Corp. Hacking Lawyer Wants Jury in Defamation Case
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-05-21T15:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/news-corp-hacking-lawyer-wants-jury-in-police-defamation-case.html
Mark Lewis , the British lawyer who
was instrumental in putting News Corp.’s phone-hacking scandal
in the public eye, asked a judge for a jury trial of his related
defamation lawsuit against  London  police.  Judge Michael Tugendhat, who will oversee a five-day trial
in London in July, said he would rule later on Lewis’s request
and ordered the media not to report what was said at a hearing
on the matter today. The  Metropolitan Police Service  is opposed
to a jury and wants a judge to issue a verdict.  The case relates to Lewis’s testimony to lawmakers probing
phone-hacking in 2009, in which he claimed a detective had told
him privately that phone hacking by  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the
World tabloid was far more widespread than police had revealed
at the time. Lewis, who has represented celebrity victims of
phone hacking, sued over claims the police wrongfully implied he
was a liar by contradicting his testimony.  Lewis has said the case underscores the extent to which
police sought to portray the hacking scandal as being contained
even though they had evidence showing otherwise. While the
police opened a new investigation into phone hacking in January
2011, probes in 2006 and 2009 failed to reveal the extent of the
illegal practice.  News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  shuttered the News of
the World in July, after revelations that the scandal was more
widespread than previously known. Police, who have arrested
about 50 people in three parallel probes, said in April there
were 1,174 “likely” victims, and about 4,800 potential
victims.  Outside Courtroom  The Met in March 2011 lost a bid to dismiss the case. At
the hearing last year, Lewis recounted a conversation outside a
London courtroom in 2007 or 2008, in which a police detective
said as many as 6,000 phones may have been hacked.  John Yates ,
the police commissioner at the time, said at the same committee
hearing that far fewer people may have had their phones hacked
and not been made aware by authorities.  Yates and former Metropolitan Police Commissioner  Paul Stephenson  both resigned last year under pressure related to the
failed phone-hacking probes. A media-ethics inquiry triggered by
the hacking scandal is also probing the relationship between the
press and police.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  