-- Norway Bubble Risk Is Overblown in Supply Squeeze, Solberg Says
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-05-21T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/norway-bubble-risk-is-overblown-in-supply-squeeze-solberg-says.html
Norway  isn’t in the grip of a housing
bubble and a shortage of supply in the  property market  will
prevent prices from falling, said Erna Solberg, the leader of
the  Conservative Party  and the front-runner to take over as
prime minister in next year’s election.  “I argue against a housing bubble because a housing bubble
is an influx of prices without demand; in Norway it’s demand
that’s the biggest reason,” Solberg, 51, said yesterday in an 
interview in Oslo. “I don’t think house prices will fall.”  The comments signal a potential Conservative-led government
won’t step in with measures to cool the  housing market  that the
country’s financial regulator has warned is the biggest threat
to the economy. Near-record low  interest rates  and falling
unemployment boosted  home prices  about 27 percent since 2008,
according to the Norwegian Real Estate Brokers Association.  Robert Shiller , the co-creator of the S&P/Case-Shiller
home-price index who predicted the U.S. subprime mortgage crash,
this year warned that Norwegian policy makers should “start
worrying now” and that the market may be in a bubble.     The
Financial Supervisory Authority has warned that house prices may
fall “markedly,” threatening “substantial” knock-on effects.
The regulator introduced guidelines last year that limit
mortgages to 85 percent of the value of the home.  Not Taxation  Norway’s central bank has emphasized that it is reluctant
to widen the interest rate gap to Europe even as  house prices 
have reached records while acknowledging last week that housing
market developments and  household debt  may become a source of
“instability in the Norwegian economy in the longer term.”
Governor Oeystein Olsen said earlier this month that guiding
house prices aren’t part of his mandate.  “There is a big problem connected to housing prices in
Norway,” Solberg said. “The answer to that is not more
taxation. If you want to decrease housing costs in Norway, the
most important thing is to build more.”  Solberg, who has lead the Conservatives since 2004 and
overseen a surge in support over the past six months, will lead
the opposition against Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg in the
parliamentary elections in September 2013.  Backing for her party beat Stoltenberg’s  Labor party  in a
May 12 Norfakta poll, securing 32.1 percent of the votes
compared with Labor’s 29.5 percent. A survey for newspaper
Aftenposten this month showed that 44 percent wanted Solberg to
be prime minister, while 46 percent wanted Stoltenberg to
continue.  More Houses  “The biggest issue for all governments the next 10 years
is to build more public transport in the larger cities and cut
down on planning processes for more houses,” Solberg said.  Solberg said a Conservative-led government will focus on
cutting the wealth and inheritance taxes while seeking to add
tax incentives for people to work longer. She would stick to a
rule that limits spending of oil revenue to 4 percent of the
nation’s $580 billion sovereign-wealth fund.  “We don’t have to cut pensions because the Norwegian
economy is growing fast,” she said. “We’re not in the cutting
business -- any Norwegian politicians now -- but it is a
question of what you are using the growth for.”  The economy of the world’s seventh-largest oil exporter has
steered clear of  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis. The government
has no net debt and the biggest budget surplus of any AAA-rated
nation, thanks to its sovereign-wealth fund.  The country’s mainland economy, which strips out the effect
of oil, gas and shipping, will grow 3.25 percent this year, the
central bank said March 14. That compares with a European
Commission estimate for a 0.3 percent contraction in the 17-
member euro region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net ; 