-- Obama Says Romney’s Bain Record Part of Election Debate
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-05-22T16:17:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/obama-says-romney-s-record-at-bain-should-be-in-election-debate.html
President  Barack Obama  cast his race
against Republican Mitt Romney as a contest against a private-
equity executive whose goal was maximizing profits, while the
president’s job is to “figure out how everybody in the country
has a fair shot.”  Obama aimed at the heart of Romney’s campaign argument,
saying there is a gulf between the skills and priorities needed
in private enterprise and those in governing.  “If your main argument for how to grow the economy is, I
knew how to make a lot of money for investors, then you’re
missing what this job is about,” Obama told a news conference
in Chicago yesterday.  Both campaigns are gearing up for a close election in which
voters rank the economy and  unemployment  as top issues. Obama is
seeking to undermine Romney’s central argument for his candidacy
before the presumed Republican nominee can sell it to voters.  The president’s critique, at the end of a summit of NATO
leaders, came in response to a question about criticism by some
prominent allies of an ad his campaign is running that
highlights the closing of a steel plant that was bought by  Bain
Capital  LLC, the private-equity firm Romney co-founded.  Romney, 65, responded to Obama’s remarks by saying they
showed the president will “continue his attacks on the free-
enterprise system.”  Unemployment, Housing  “What this election is about is the 23 million Americans
who are still struggling to find work and the millions who have
lost their homes and have fallen into poverty,” Romney said in
a statement.  Romney’s campaign has struggled to find a consistent line
of defense against the Bain attacks. On a conference call today
with reporters, former New Hampshire Governor John Sununu, a
Romney surrogate, accused Democrats of distorting Romney’s
record by “cherry picking” failed Bain investments and
attacking the free-enterprise system. He dismissed the criticism
as character assassination.  “If you want to go and talk about Bain as a whole that is
fair,” Sununu said. “If you want to talk about Bain on cherry-
picking basis that’s a distortion.’  Obama, 50, said he isn’t attacking the role of private
equity firms, which he called ‘‘a healthy part of the free
market.”  ‘Maximize Profits’  “There are folks who do good work in that area and there
are times where they identify the capacity for the economy to
create new jobs or new industries,” he said. “But understand
that their priority is to maximize profits, and that’s not
always going to be good for communities or businesses or
workers.”  Romney’s background is fair game because the Republican
candidate is emphasizing his business background rather than his
record as governor of  Massachusetts , Obama said.  “And when you’re president, as opposed to the head of a
private equity firm, then your job is not simply to maximize
profits,” he said. “Your job is to figure out how everybody in
the country has a fair shot.”  Some Obama allies are undermining his argument as they try
to avoid criticizing the investment community.  ‘Nauseating’ Debate  Mayor  Cory Booker  of  Newark ,  New Jersey , yesterday called
the private equity debate “nauseating to the American public”
and likened it to proposed Republican attacks tying Obama to his
former pastor, Reverend Jeremiah Wright Jr., who once urged
blacks to sing “God damn American” instead of “God Bless
America.”  “Enough is enough. Stop attacking private equity. Stop
attacking Jeremiah Wright,” Booker said on NBC’s “Meet the
Press.” After Romney’s campaign highlighted his comments,
Booker backtracked in a Twitter message and a web video.  Steven Rattner , who headed the president’s auto task force,
last week called “unfair” an Obama campaign ad about a Kansas
City, Missouri, steel mill that Bain took over in 1993.  “I don’t think Bain Capital did anything they need to be
embarrassed about,” Rattner said May 14 on  MSNBC ’s “Morning
Joe” program. “It did it superbly well, acting within the
rules, acting very responsibly, and was a leading firm.”  While Booker and Rattner weren’t speaking as official Obama
campaign surrogates, their comments reflect a reluctance among
some top business leaders and elected officials to echo the
campaign criticism of Romney’s Bain performance, in part because
they don’t want to vilify an industry that makes positive
contributions to the economy.  Big Names  Bain has made successful investments and many of its
customers are pension funds, said  Steven Kaplan , a professor at
the University of  Chicago  Booth School Business.  “A number of the private equity investors, even some of
the big names, are Democrats,” said Kaplan. “You can always
find a deal that didn’t work.”  Jumping on remarks by Booker and Rattner, Romney’s campaign
put up an ad replaying their comments along with a quote from
former Representative Harold Ford, a Tennessee Democrat, saying
“private equity’s not a bad thing.”  “Have you had enough of Obama’s attacks on free
enterprise? His own key supporters have,” the ad says.  The Obama campaign didn’t disclose how much it spent to air
the Bain ad, saying only that it would run in battleground
states.  Ampad Video  Obama for America began a round of attacks yesterday with a
web video about another company acquired by Bain -- American Pad
& paper, or Ampad, an office-supplies plant in Marion,  Indiana  -
- that closed in 1995.  “You don’t come in and just take everything, everybody’s
job and destroy a business. I mean, that’s what they did,”
Jerry Rayburn, a former employee of SCM Office Supplies Inc.,
says in the 5 1/2 minute video.  Bain, in an e-mailed statement, said Ampad’s business grew
during the years the firm controlled the company.  “The Marion plant was a challenging situation in a
business that was performing well overall, growing revenues and
adding jobs,” Bain said. “Our control of Ampad ended in 1996,
fully four years before it encountered financial difficulties
due to overwhelming pressure from ‘big box’ retailers, declines
in a paper demand and intense foreign price pressures.”  Bain said revenues grew in 80 percent of the more than 350
companies in which the firm invested.  ‘Too Easy’  Boeing Co. (BA)  CEO Jim McNerney, chairman of Obama’s Export
Council, said on May 8 the wealth-creation-versus-job-creation
distinction the Obama campaign is trying to make is “too
easy.”  “Even within Boeing you’re growing some elements, you’re
winding down others to fuel, to provide resources, to provide
the growth,” McNerney said in an interview. “That’s what makes
this country great, because we can redeploy capital and labor
more quickly than other societies. And I think private equity
plays a role in that.”  Still, Lawrence Fish, the former chief executive officer of
Citizens Financial Group, Inc. and a top Obama campaign donor
and surrogate, last week questioned Romney’s role at Bain while
saying the industry plays a positive role in the economy.  “The question about private equity -- and this applies to
 Mitt Romney  and his partners -- specifically is,” when jobs are
eliminated, “whether they have behaved fairly and whether
they’ve behaved responsibly. Was fair and complete severance
provided to displaced workers? Were their pensions honored?” he
said on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital.”  Biden’s Role  Vice President  Joe Biden  has emerged as the Obama
campaign’s attack dog, saying in Youngstown last week that after
GST Steel was taken over by Bain, Romney made sure his
executives “got to play by a separate set of rules.”  “But not everyone got hurt. The top 30 executives walked
away with $9 million,” Biden said on May 16. “And Romney and
his partners walked away with at least $12 million.”  The former Massachusetts governor has a roster of
surrogates to defend his business background, including Tom Stemberg, the founder of  Staples Inc. (SPLS) ; former Minnesota Governor
 Tim Pawlenty , Senator  Rob Portman  of  Ohio  and Wisconsin
Representative  Paul Ryan , House Budget Committee chairman.  Romney says that, during his tenure at Bain, the firm
created 100,000 jobs. Neither the private equity firm nor his
campaign have documented that figure in response to repeated
requests by Bloomberg News. Bain Capital doesn’t track jobs lost
or gained as a result of their investments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  