-- Obama Speaks in Tornado-Ravaged Joplin a Year After Storm
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-05-22T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/obama-speaks-in-tornado-ravaged-joplin-a-year-after-storm.html
President  Barack Obama  told the
graduating class of Joplin High School in  Missouri  that its
community’s spirit is a “source of inspiration” for a city
rebuilding after a deadly  tornado  destroyed schools, homes and
churches a year ago.  “You’ve learned at a younger age than most that we can’t
always predict what life has in store for us,” Obama said last
night at the campus of Missouri Southern State University in
Joplin. “But here in Joplin, you’ve also learned that we have
the power to grow from these experiences.”  “We can define our own lives not by what happens to us,
but by how we respond,” he said. “We can choose to carry on
and make a difference in the world.”  At the commencement ceremony, held at the university
because the tornado destroyed Joplin High School a day after
graduation last year, Obama honored the memory of the victims
and praised the city’s resilience.  With winds of more than 200 miles-per-hour, the deadliest
tornado since 1950 flattened about one-third of Joplin one year
ago today, killing 161 people. Obama shook the hands of the
graduating students before the ceremony began.  “Today, more than half the stores that were damaged on the
Range Line are up and running again,” he said. “And every time
a company re-opens its doors, people cheer the cutting of a
ribbon that bears the town’s new slogan: ‘Remember. Rejoice.
Rebuild.’”  A Greater Cause  Obama urged the graduates to remember how the devastation
forced them to think of a cause greater than themselves. Seared
by tragedy, he said, the students were also blessed by the
knowledge that the well of human charity runs deep.  “You’ll always remember that in a town of 50,000 people,
nearly 50,000 more came to help in the weeks after the
tornado,” he said. “Perfect strangers who’ve never met you and
would never ask for anything in return.”  Obama arrived in Joplin last night after a two-day summit
of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in  Chicago , where
leaders discussed the next stage of transition for the war in
 Afghanistan .  Last night’s address, with its focus on community and
compassion, marked a departure from the international diplomacy
over Afghanistan and Group of Eight communiques on the  European
debt crisis  that consumed the president’s agenda during the
previous four days. It was also an interlude in the presidential
campaign’s overt partisan politics.  “There is such a decency, a bigness of spirit, in this
country of ours,” Obama said. “Remember that. Remember what
people did here.”  While last year’s tornado was devastating to Joplin, it
ranks well behind the deadliest tornado in U.S. history. That
one cut a 291-mile path across Missouri, Illinois and  Indiana  on
March 18, 1925, killing 695, according to the  National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration ’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Joplin, Missouri at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  