-- Obama Money Edge Competes With Republican Cash ‘Tsunami’
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-05-21T04:49:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/obama-money-edge-competes-with-republican-cash-tsunami-.html
Four years ago,  Barack Obama  became
the first Democratic presidential nominee in at least two
decades to outspend the Republican challenger. The incumbent
president shouldn’t expect the same advantage this time.  Super-political action committees backing the presumptive
Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  are raising money at a faster
clip than Democrats, threatening to erase an Obama financial
advantage that allowed him to expand the battleground map in
2008 to include such states as  Indiana  and  North Carolina .  The incumbent’s 12-to-1 financial advantage at the end of
April over Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, shrunk to
less than 2-to-1 when the bank accounts of the national party
committees and friendly super-PACs were added.  “Those people who can and are willing to write seven- and
eight-figure checks are few and far between on the Democratic
side and far too numerous on the Republican side,” said
Democratic consultant Peter Fenn, who participates in weekly
phone calls with Obama campaign operatives. “There was some
thought that Obama was going to outspend whoever was nominated.
That’s long gone.”  Republicans are determined to keep pace this year. Obama
and the  Democratic Party  had about $1 billion to spend in 2008;
Republican nominee  John McCain , a U.S. senator from  Arizona , and
the Republicans had more than $200 million less. This time, both
campaigns and their allies are expected to reach $1 billion.  No Money Advantage  “My guess is we will have true parity this time,” said
Alex Vogel, a Republican consultant. “Whoever wins or loses is
not going to win or lose because they were dramatically
outspent.”  Some Democrats express concern that Obama will be trailing
in cash when the pro-Romney super-PACs, which can take in
unlimited donations from corporations and individuals, are
combined with pro-Republican nonprofits that keep their donors
secret such as Crossroads GPS, which is spending $25 million on
anti-Obama ads.  “Everyone is aware of the dangers that super-PACs
represent,” said Democratic National Committeeman Robert
Zimmerman, an Obama fundraiser. “It comes up in discussions
among donors and the Democratic political leadership.”  Ever since the  Federal Election Commission  began tracking
unlimited contributions to the political parties -- known as
“soft money” in 1991-92 -- every Republican presidential
nominee has had more money to spend than the Democrat.  Obama’s 2008 Edge  Obama changed that in 2008. As the first major-party
nominee to shun taxpayer funding since the system was enacted in
time for the 1976 elections, Obama raised $745 million, more
than twice as much as McCain’s $350 million, which included $84
million in public money. That was more than enough to offset the
Republican National Committee’s fundraising edge, $428 million
to $260 million, over its Democratic counterpart.  Through April 30 of this year, Obama raised $222 million to
$100 million for Romney, and the  Democratic National Committee 
brought in $169 million to $135 million for the Republicans.
Obama had 12 times more money in the bank than Romney, $115.2
million compared with $9.2 million.  Even while being outraised, the  Republican National
Committee  had more money in the bank entering May, $34.8
million, compared with $24.3 million for the Democrats.  Both national party committees have transferred money to
state parties in advance of the election, and the Democrats have
also spent almost $500,000 in coordinated expenses with the
Obama campaign.  Super-PAC House Victories  What has Republicans cheering and Democrats worrying is the
new role of super-PACs in a presidential election. Those groups
helped Republicans win a U.S. House majority and increase its
Senate minority in 2010.  “I don’t think anybody has duly grasped the impact that
Citizens United can have on a national race,” said Democratic
consultant Glenn Totten, in a reference to the 2010 U.S. Supreme
Court decision removing restrictions on corporate and union
political spending. “We haven’t seen it before and nobody knows
how it’s going to turn out. This could be a tsunami of cash.”  Restore Our Future, formed by former Romney aides, raised
$56.5 million through April 30. The group raised $4.6 million
last month, including $1 million from John Kleinheinz, president
of  Fort Worth , Texas-based Kleinheinz Capital Partners Inc., and
$985,000 from Harold Hamm, chief executive officer of
Continental Resources Inc. based in Oklahoma City. It had $8.2
million in the bank entering May.  Simmons Donation  American Crossroads, founded with help from  Karl Rove , a
former political adviser to President  George W. Bush  and  Ed Gillespie , a senior adviser to Romney’s presidential campaign,
brought in $1.8 million last month and has now raised $30
million. The super-PAC had $25.5 million in the bank. Harold Simmons, chairman of Dallas-based Contran Corp., gave $1
million. He is a donor to both Restore Our Future and American
Crossroads.  Obama supporters have their own super-PAC, Priorities USA
Action, which has trailed the Republicans in fundraising despite
requests from the president’s campaign team for donations. The
PAC, which raised $10.6 million through April 30 and had $4.7
million cash on hand, and hired Mary Beth Cahill, who helped run
2004 Democratic presidential nominee  John Kerry ’s campaign.  Priorities USA Action raised $1.6 million last month, with
$1 million coming from the air traffic controllers union and
another $250,000 from the plumbers and pipefitters union.  Another pro-Democratic PAC, American Bridge 21st Century,
raised $5.7 million and had $1.3 million in the bank through
March 31. The research group, which focuses on Romney and other
Republican candidates, learned earlier this month that it would
receive $1 million from investor  George Soros , founder of Soros
Fund Management LLC.  Republican Confidence  The success of the pro-Romney PACs has Republicans
confident that they will be able to match Obama’s fundraising.  “The most important thing is not to be disproportionately
outspent,” said former Republican Representative Bill Paxon of
 New York , who is raising money for American Crossroads and
Crossroads GPS. “It is clear the Republican campaign is going
to have enough resources to be competitive.”  The proliferation of super-PACs carry a disadvantage
because Romney won’t have the same control over their messages
as he does with his campaign committee.  A case in point: Ending Spending Action Fund, whose patron,
 TD Ameritrade (AMTD)  founder Joe Ricketts, considered spending $10
million on ads attacking Obama’s connections with his former
pastor who’d delivered racially-charged sermons. Romney
repudiated the proposal and Ricketts rejected it.  “The difference is Obama controls his message,” said
Republican fundraiser Al Hoffman Jr., a real estate developer
based in North Palm Beach,  Florida , and a former Republican
National Committee finance chairman. “You don’t want the super-
PACs throwing stuff out there that’s not central to the core
issues, the deficit and the economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 