-- Obama Allies Muddle Bain Hit, Avoid Private-Equity Smear
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-05-21T19:44:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/obama-allies-muddle-bain-hit-avoid-private-equity-smear.html
President  Barack Obama ’s campaign has
set a target on Mitt Romney’s tenure at the helm of  Bain Capital 
LLC. What’s missing are high profile surrogates from the
 Democratic Party  and the business community who will hit that
theme in interviews and appearances on political talk shows.  In fact, some Obama backers are undermining a core argument
the president is making against the presumed Republican Party
nominee as they try to avoid criticizing the investment
community.  Newark, New Jersey Mayor Cory Booker yesterday called the
private-equity debate “nauseating to the American public” and
likened it to potential Republican attacks tying Obama to his
former pastor, Reverend Jeremiah Wright Jr., who once urged
blacks to sing “God damn American” instead of “God Bless
America.”  “Enough is enough. Stop attacking private equity. Stop
attacking Jeremiah Wright,” Booker said on NBC’s “Meet the
Press” program. “This stuff has got to stop because what it
does is it undermines to me what this country should be focused
on.”  After Romney’s campaign highlighted his comments, Booker
later backtracked in a Twitter message and a web video.  ‘Unfair’ Ads  Booker’s comments came on the heels of those from  Steven Rattner , who headed the president’s auto task force and last
week called “unfair” an Obama campaign ad about a  Kansas City ,
Missouri steel mill that was taken over by Bain in 1993.  “I don’t think Bain Capital did anything they need to be
embarrassed about,” Rattner said May 14 on  MSNBC ’s “Morning
Joe” program. “It did it superbly well, acting within the
rules, acting very responsibly, and was a leading firm.”  While Booker and Rattner weren’t speaking as official
campaign surrogates, their comments reflect a broader reluctance
of top business leaders and elected officials to sound the
campaign criticism of Romney’s Bain performance, in part,
because they don’t want to vilify an industry that makes
positive contributions to the economy. As a private-equity firm,
Bain has made successful investments and many of its customers
are pension funds, said  Steven Kaplan , a professor at the
University of Chicago Booth School Business.  “The fact is, a number of the private-equity investors,
even some of the big names, are Democrats,” said Kaplan. “You
can always find a deal that didn’t work.”  Romney Response  Romney’s campaign jumped on Booker’s and Rattner’s remarks,
putting up a new ad replaying their comments along with a quote
from former Representative Harold Ford, a Tennessee Democrat,
saying “private equity’s not a bad thing.”  “Have you had enough of Obama’s attacks on free
enterprise? His own key supporters have,” the ad says.  Earlier this month,  Boeing Co. (BA)  CEO Jim McNerney, chairman
of Obama’s Export Council, defended the role of private equity
in the economy, saying the wealth-creation-versus-job-creation
distinction the campaign is trying to make is “too easy.”  “Even within Boeing you’re growing some elements, you’re
winding down others to fuel, to provide resources, to provide
the growth,” McNerney said in a May 8 interview. “That’s what
makes this country great, because we can redeploy capital and
labor more quickly than other societies. And I think private
equity plays a role in that.”  Bain Record  The Obama campaign says the Bain focus isn’t an indictment
of the sector. Instead, it is specifically highlighting Romney’s
economic philosophy and Bain’s track record.  “We’re not questioning the purpose of the private equity
business as a whole,”  Ben LaBolt , a campaign spokesman, told
reporters on a conference call today. “One of the key
questions, I think, the American people have is why do Romney
and his partners succeed even if the company failed.”  The Bain argument is part of a $25 million ad-blitz this
month financed by the Obama campaign which paints Romney as a
corporate raider, focused on wealth creation, not  job creation .
Obama for America began a new round of attacks today with a web
video about another company acquired by Bain -- American Pad &
paper, or Ampad, an office-supplies plant in Marion,  Indiana  --
that closed in 1995.  “You don’t come in and just take everything, everybody’s
job and destroy a business. I mean, that’s what they did,”
Jerry Rayburn, a former employee of SCM Office Supplies Inc.,
says in the five and a half minute video.  ‘Challenging Situation’  Bain, in an e-mailed statement today, said Ampad’s business
grew during the years the firm controlled the company.  “The Marion plant was a challenging situation in a
business that was performing well overall, growing revenues and
adding jobs,” Bain said. “Our control of Ampad ended in 1996,
fully four years before it encountered financial difficulties
due to overwhelming pressure from ‘big box’ retailers, declines
in a paper demand and intense foreign price pressures.”  Brushing aside “political attacks that emphasize the few
companies that have struggled,” Bain said revenues grew in 80
percent of the more than 350 companies in which the firm
invested.  While saying the industry plays a positive role in the
economy, Lawrence Fish, the former chief executive officer of
Citizens Financial Group, Inc. and a top Obama campaign donor
and surrogate, last week questioned Romney’s role at Bain.  “The question about private equity -- and this applies to
 Mitt Romney  and his partners -- specifically is,” when jobs are
eliminated, “whether they have behaved fairly and whether
they’ve behaved responsibly. Was fair and complete severance
provided to displaced workers? Were their pensions honored?” he
said on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital.”  Biden Criticism  Vice President  Joe Biden  has emerged as the Obama
campaign’s Romney attack dog, saying in Youngstown last week
that after GST Steel was taken over by Bain, Romney made sure
his executives “got to play by a separate set of rules.”  “But not everyone got hurt. The top 30 executives walked
away with $9 million,” Biden said May 16. “And Romney and his
partners walked away with at least $12 million.”  For his defense, Romney has a roster of surrogates to
defend his business background, including Tom Stemberg, the
founder of  Staples Inc. (SPLS) ; former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty ,
Senator  Rob Portman  of  Ohio  and Wisconsin Representative  Paul Ryan , chairman of the House Budget Committee.  The former Massachusetts governor has been dodging private-
equity attacks since he began seeking political office almost
two decades ago. And still, he had trouble responding
effectively to them in the Republican primary and in recent
weeks.  Jobs Claim  He has repeatedly claimed that under his tenure at Bain,
the firm created 100,000 jobs. Neither the private-equity firm
nor his campaign have been able to document that figure in
response to repeated requests by Bloomberg News. Bain Capital
doesn’t track jobs lost or gained as a result of their
investments.  Last week, Romney responded to the Bain attacks by
charging, in a May 16 podcast with blogger Ed Morrissey of Hot
Air, that under Obama’s watch “about 100,000 jobs were lost in
the  auto industry  and auto dealers and auto manufacturers, so
he’s hardly one to point a finger.”  That claim is “untenable,” according to the Washington
Post’s “Fact Checker” column, which labeled it “four
Pinocchios” -- its highest rating for falsity.  Booker yesterday released a YouTube video explaining why
Romney’s business record is fair game.  “Let me be clear: Mitt Romney has made his business record
a centerpiece of his campaign,” he said. “Therefore, it is
reasonable, and in fact I encourage it, for the Obama campaign
to examine that record and to discuss it. I have no problem with
that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  