-- Obama Seeks Afghan Commitments as NATO Summit Closes
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-05-21T20:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/obama-seeks-afghan-commitments-as-nato-summit-closes.html
President  Barack Obama  closes the
NATO summit today short of key commitments the U.S. is seeking
on Afghanistan, from the reopening of supply lines by Pakistan
to guarantees that allies will keep combat troops in place
through 2014 and fund Afghan security forces for a decade after.  Obama, in remarks opening today’s session, welcomed Afghan
President  Hamid Karzai  and thanked governments helping support
the campaign without mentioning Pakistan’s President Asif Ali Zardari, who also is attending the summit. The three leaders
talked briefly at the end of the morning meeting.  As the two-day summit concluded in Obama’s hometown of
Chicago, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization formally set in
motion planning for the next stage in the conflict, in which
Afghan forces will take the lead in providing security starting
next year. By the end of 2014, the U.S. and its allies will pull
out combat troops while continuing in training roles.  After 2014, “the Afghan war as we understand it is over,”
Obama said yesterday after meeting with Karzai. “The world is
behind this strategy that we’ve laid out. Now it’s our task to
implement it effectively.”  Obama, who is seeking re-election in November, is focused
on wrapping up a war that Americans have grown weary of after
more than a decade. A Pew Research Center survey in March found
57 percent of Americans want U.S. troops out as soon as
possible.  Sharing Burden  At the same time, Obama is pushing European allies to stay
in the fold long enough to share the burden. He’s seeking to
show enough unity within NATO to offset fissures exposed by a
pledge by newly elected French President  Francois Hollande  to
withdraw from  Afghanistan  ahead of the previously set timetable.  Obama, German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and NATO Secretary
General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said yesterday that coalition
forces in Afghanistan wouldn’t leave prematurely. “There will
be no rush for the exits,” Rasmussen told reporters. “Our
goal, our strategy, our timetable remain unchanged.”  “We very firmly support the idea of ’in together, out
together,’” Merkel said.  Jorge Benitez, a senior fellow specializing in NATO and
transatlantic relations at the Atlantic Council, a non-partisan
research organization in  Washington , said that with the French
accelerating their timetable for withdrawal, other nations in
the alliance may follow.  Political Pressure  “The political leaders of the governments here don’t seem
to see the political problems of the NATO alliance as severe as
they actually are,” he said.  “Officially, NATO is still in denial about that,” Benitez
said. “They are still paying lip service to the 2014
timetable.”  Even with the withdrawal date set, Obama, who visited
Afghanistan on May 2 to sign an agreement with Karzai on the
transition, warned today “We have a lot of work to do.”  General John Allen, the top U.S. and NATO commander in
Afghanistan, said the Taliban remains “a resilient and capable
opponent” that will keep fighting Afghan forces after the U.S.
and allied front-line role shrinks.  “We fully expect that combat is going to continue,” he
said at a briefing in  Chicago . Even as Afghan forces take more
of a lead role in counterinsurgency operations next year, he
said any notion that U.S. combat operations will stop in 2013
“is not in fact correct.”  Electoral Concerns  Allen dismissed questions about whether the withdrawal
timetable is keyed to Obama’s electoral concerns. “There is no
daylight between the commander on the ground in Afghanistan and
the commander in chief,” he said.  The administration is urging financially pressed European
governments and their war-weary citizens to back Afghanistan’s
security over the next decade. The U.S. wants allies, many of
which are cutting budgets, to help cover the $4.1 billion a year
needed to finance Afghan security forces after 2014.  Merkel said today at a news conference that NATO has
“almost reached” its goal. Germany already has promised to
contribute $150 million a year and U.K. Prime Minister  David
Cameron  said today that Britain will provide $110 million.  “This is a significant contribution but it is a fraction
of the cost of a combat mission,” Cameron said.  Awaiting Pakistan Move  The friction with  Pakistan  presents yet another hurdle for
the U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  -- not Obama -- met
with Zardari at the summit, with no agreement yet on reopening
NATO supply lines through Pakistan. While Obama spoke with
Zardari briefly after a morning meeting, there was no plan for a
one-on-one meeting while the issue remains unresolved.  Pakistan closed Afghan supply routes from its Karachi port
in retaliation for a U.S. air strike that killed its soldiers
instead of the targeted militants. The U.S. said it was an
accident. Tensions also were heightened by the U.S. raid on the
compound in Pakistan where Osama bin Laden was hiding.  Some 30 percent of NATO supplies went through Pakistan
before the suspension, according to the Pentagon. NATO has
switched to northern routes.  Allen said talks with Pakistan are moving “in a positive
direction.” As for when the matter will be settled, “I can’t
tell you when that will occur,” he said.  Rasmussen said the closure hasn’t had a significant impact
on NATO operations. The routes will be more important when
allied forces are withdrawing and need to transport heavy
equipment, he said.  Equipment Agreement  NATO members yesterday also agreed to jointly fund
operations of an airborne ground-surveillance system including
five  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  Global Hawk drones, with the initial
contract valued at $1.7 billion. NATO also reached what the
alliance calls an “interim operational capability” for its
shared ballistic missile defense system meant to protect against
a potential Iranian threat.  The airborne ground-surveillance system project has been a
NATO priority for Obama and U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta .
NATO members yesterday signed the contract for the five unarmed
drones, Rasmussen told reporters at the summit.  Falls Church ,
Virginia-based Northrop is the prime contractor.  The Alliance Ground Surveillance System, as it is called,
will be made available to the alliance between 2015 and 2017.
Its main operating base will be at Sigonella Air Base in  Italy ,
according to information provided by NATO on its website.  Missile defense that was once in U.S. hands is now ready to
be transferred to NATO command and control, Ivo Daalder, the
U.S. permanent representative to NATO, told reporters yesterday.  Missile Defense  Obama directed the transfer of operational control to NATO
of a radar based in  Turkey , Daalder said. U.S. Navy destroyers
equipped with the  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  Aegis defense system,
are also able to operate under the alliance’s control, according
to Daalder. The decision, backed by allies in Chicago, means
that NATO will “have for the first time a territorial missile
defense capability,” Daalder said.  Russian opposition to the new NATO ballistic missile
defense capability is considered a key obstacle to
implementation, according to a May 14 Congressional Research
Service analysis by Paul Belkin.  “Rhetoric from Russian policy makers has become
increasingly hostile to the NATO plan,” Belkin said.  Russian leaders have also asked for legal guarantees that
the NATO system won’t be aimed at  Russia , Belkin said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Chicago at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Chicago at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  