-- Lockhart Says Fed Shouldn’t Rule Out QE Amid European Risks
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-05-21T15:40:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/lockhart-says-fed-shouldn-t-rule-out-new-qe-amid-european-risks.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said policy makers need to retain the
option of starting a new round of bond buying to spur the U.S.
expansion as it faces risks from the weak economies of  Europe .  “As popular as it might be in some quarters to rule out”
a third round of so-called  quantitative easing , “I do not think
this option can be taken off the table,” Lockhart said today in
Tokyo. “QE3 will work under the right circumstances. But I
don’t believe such circumstances prevail at this time.”  Several Fed policy makers said a loss of momentum in growth
or increased risks to their economic outlook could warrant
additional action to keep the recovery going, minutes of their
April meeting showed last week. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  on
April 25 said he was prepared to take more steps to aid the
economy, even as he signaled he didn’t see such a necessity at
that time.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  on April 25 reiterated
its expectation that subdued inflation and economic slack will
probably warrant keeping the benchmark  interest rate  close to
zero at least through late 2014.  Operation Twist, a program to lower borrowing costs through
the purchase of long-term Treasuries and the sale of short-term
debt, will likely end on schedule in June, Lockhart said in
response to questions following his speech.  ‘Harm the Recovery’  “My own view is that it will probably not be necessary to
extend it, although it is one of the options that we have if we
wanted,” he said. “So a condition that might precipitate the
use of that tool would be rapidly rising longer term interest
rates that we feel would harm the recovery through the channel
of home mortgages for example.”  Lockhart said a new quantitative easing program might be
warranted “if there is a severe deterioration in the  U.S.
economy  as evidenced by rising unemployment that is the result
of real job loss as opposed to simply rising participation.”  U.S. shares rose today with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
climbing 1.2 percent to 1,310.19 at 11:00 a.m. in  New York . The
U.S. 10-year Treasury yield rose to 1.74 percent from 1.72
percent.  Risks to the U.S. economy are “tilted modestly to the
downside,” partly because of “recession or very weak growth
along with serious fiscal and banking strains in Europe,”
Lockhart said.  At the same time, Lockhart said he sees limits to the
effectiveness of monetary policy. The Fed can’t address economic
problems that might result from factors beyond its purview like
 tax policy  or inadequate training for workers, he said.  Quicken Recovery  “Circumstances today in the United States call for
continued measured efforts to quicken the pace of recovery and
shrink unemployment, while keeping inflation controlled and
close to the FOMC’s official target of 2 percent,” Lockhart
said. “Those efforts for the time being should fall in the
realm of communications.”  The Atlanta Fed president said the central bank should
“clarify its strategy for the medium and long term” so that
businesses and consumers have a more specific understanding of
the policy outlook and can evaluate what could change it. While
Lockhart didn’t mention a specific proposal, one option under
consideration is a regular monetary policy report, St. Louis Fed
President  James Bullard  told reporters last week.  Fed presidents rotate voting on monetary policy, with
Lockhart voting this year.  Manufacturing Expanding  “Current economic data continue to be a mix of positives
and negatives,” Lockhart said. “Consumer activity is
continuing to grow, and manufacturing is expanding. At the same
time, we’ve seen a recent slowdown in business investment, and
the pace of  job creation  has weakened.”  Lockhart said he expects “only modest growth over the next
few years” with inflation at around the central bank’s 2
percent target “over the forecast horizon.”  Payrolls climbed by 115,000 workers in April, the smallest
increase in six months, Labor Department figures showed. The
jobless rate fell to a three-year low of 8.1 percent as people
left the  labor force , adding to worries that the economic
expansion is cooling.  Consumer prices as measured by the personal consumption
expenditures index, the gauge preferred by the Fed, rose 2
percent in March from a year earlier, in line with the central
bank’s 2 percent inflation goal.  Lockhart, 65, a former Georgetown University professor, has
led the Atlanta Fed since 2007. The Atlanta Fed district
includes Alabama,  Florida ,  Georgia , and portions of  Louisiana ,
Mississippi, and Tennessee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta  at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Sharp in  Tokyo  at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  