-- Oil Rises First Time in Seven Days; Goldman Sees Tighter Supply
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-05-21T12:40:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/oil-rises-first-time-in-seven-days-goldman-sees-tighter-supply.html
Oil rose for the first time in seven
days in  New York  after  China  pledged to boost the nation’s
economy and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said the balance between
supply and demand of crude is tightening.  West Texas Intermediate futures gained as much as 0.8
percent after settling at the lowest level in almost seven
months on May 18. The extent of oil’s decline was unwarranted,
Goldman said in a report. China will focus more on bolstering
economic growth, the official Xinhua News Agency reported
yesterday, citing Premier  Wen Jiabao . Crude’s relative strength
index remained below 30, signaling it may be oversold.  “Chinese growth continues to be sustained and robust,”
said  Christopher Bellew , senior broker at Jefferies Bache Ltd.
in London. “The emphasis for  oil prices  is ultimately where
demand is growing the most strongly, such as China and  India .
Prices seem to have found a bottom at last.”  Crude for June delivery rose as much as 72 cents to $92.20
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $91.83 at 1:33 p.m. London time. It fell 1.2
percent on May 18 to $91.48, the lowest close since Oct. 26 and
expires today. The more-active July contract climbed 33 cents to
$92.13. Prices are 7 percent lower this year.  Brent oil for July settlement rose 82 cents, or 0.8
percent, to $107.96 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange.  The front-month European benchmark contract was at a
premium to West Texas Intermediate of $15.81. Last week, the gap
narrowed 4.9 percent with the activation of a pipeline that may
ease a glut in U.S. crude inventories.  Seaway Link  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  and  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  started
shipping oil on May 19 through the 150,000 barrel-a-day Seaway
pipeline from Cushing,  Oklahoma , to Houston-area refineries, the
companies said in a statement that day.  “Despite concerns over the softening economic data, oil
demand continues to improve,”  David Greely , head of energy
research at Goldman Sachs in New York, said in the e-mailed
report. “The supply of oil actually available to the market is
increasingly constrained by the inability of Iran to market its
oil owing to the effects of US and European sanctions.”  Oil in New York has long-term technical support at $89.83 a
barrel, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. On the weekly
chart, that’s the 50 percent Fibonacci retracement of the
intraday decline to $32.40 in December 2008 from a record high
of $147.27 in July that year. Futures last traded at that price
in November 2011.  Saudi Supplies  Crude’s 14-day RSI has been below 30 since May 11,
signaling further losses may not be sustainable. Buy orders tend
to be clustered near chart-support levels. The RSI was at 23
today.  Brent, the benchmark price for more than half the world’s
petroleum, has dropped about 3 percent since May 13, when  Saudi
Arabia ’s Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said it should fall to $100 a
barrel because global supply is outweighing demand.  Prices slid earlier after Saudi Arabia’s output in March
climbed to the second-highest level in at least 31 years before
a European embargo on Iran that starts in July.  “With Saudi ramping up production to meet the need for oil
once sanctions against Iran come into full effect, the oil
market was pushed into surplus this year,” Greely said.
“However, as Iranian supplies are increasingly shut out from
the market as the sanctions take effect, that surplus is
disappearing.”  Saudi Arabia increased daily crude output to 9.923 million
barrels in March, according to the Joint Organization Data
Initiative. That surpassed  Russia , which pumped 9.92 million
barrels a day, for the first time in six years. JODI is
supervised by the Riyadh-based International Energy Forum and
compiles data provided by member governments.  Iran Progress  Oil has also fallen this month amid speculation the U.S.
and its allies will use strategic supplies to protect the global
economy as they prepare for the EU ban on imports from Iran.  Negotiations about the Persian Gulf nation’s nuclear
program have made “good progress,” Yukiya Amano, director
general of the International Atomic Energy Agency, said
yesterday before departing on a flight to Tehran. Amano will
meet with the country’s top nuclear negotiator, Saeed Jalili.  Money managers cut net-long positions on New York crude by
6 percent to 139,182 contracts, the lowest since September 2010,
in the seven days ended May 15, according to the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission’s Commitments of Traders report on
May 18.  Bets Reduced  In  London ,  hedge funds  and other money managers cut bullish
bets on  Brent crude  by 6,148 contracts, or 5.9 percent, in the
week ended May 15, according to  data from ICE Futures Europe .  Long positions, or speculative bets that prices will
increase, in futures and options combined, outnumbered short
positions by 97,625 compared with 103,773 lots the previous
week, the London-based exchange said today in its weekly
Commitment of Traders report.  The average price for regular gasoline at U.S. filling
stations fell 6.19 cents in the past two weeks to $3.7833 a
gallon, according to Lundberg Survey Inc. The survey is based on
information received from about 2,500 stations by the Camarillo,
California-based company. The price is 12.41 cents lower than a
year earlier, when the average was $3.9074. The highest average
this year was $3.9671, during the two weeks ended April 6.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  