-- Oil Rises for First Time in Seven Days on China Pledge
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-05-21T19:55:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/oil-rises-for-first-time-in-seven-days-on-china-pledge.html
Oil rose for the first time in seven
days in  New York  as China pledged to boost the nation’s economy
and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said the balance between the supply
and demand of crude is tightening.  Futures climbed 1.2 percent from the lowest level in more
than six months after Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao said his
country will focus more on bolstering growth. This weekend,
leaders of the Group of Eight nations urged  Greece  to stay in
the euro area and to maximize economic expansion. The extent of
oil’s drop was unwarranted, Goldman said in a report.  “The statements out of China and the G-8 meeting are
supportive,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC,
a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy. “We’ve come
a long way and a lot of poor economic data has already been
priced in. The G-8 statements pointed to stimulus, not just more
unvarnished austerity.”  Crude oil for June delivery rose $1.09 to settle at $92.57
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . It was the biggest
gain since May 1. Prices tumbled 1.2 percent on May 18 to
$91.48, the lowest close since Oct. 26. Oil is down 6.3 percent
this year.  June futures expire tomorrow. The more active July contract
climbed $1.06, or 1.2 percent, to settle at $92.86.  Brent oil for July settlement increased $1.67, or 1.6
percent, to end the session at $108.81 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. It was the biggest gain since
April 2. The European benchmark contract was at $15.95 premium
to West Texas Intermediate oil traded in New York, based on July
contracts, up from $15.34 on May 18.  Chinese Growth  Wen called for “putting stabilizing growth in a more
important position” and didn’t mention inflation concern in
remarks published yesterday by the official Xinhua News Agency.
 China  may announce stimulus actions in the near term, according
to a front-page commentary today in the China Securities
Journal, which is published by Xinhua.  “Chinese growth continues to be sustained and robust,”
said  Christopher Bellew , senior broker at Jefferies Bache Ltd.
in  London . “The emphasis for  oil prices  is ultimately where
demand is growing the most strongly, such as China and India.
Prices seem to have found a bottom at last.”  The G-8 leaders “affirm our interest in Greece remaining
in the euro zone while respecting its commitments,” according
to a statement by the G-8 on the global economy released by the
White House. The leaders met at Camp David,  Maryland , U.S.
President  Barack Obama ’s retreat outside  Washington .  The European sovereign debt crisis that began in Greece and
then moved to Ireland, Portugal, Italy and Spain has reduced
economic growth and fuel consumption.  Emerging Optimism  “Optimism is emerging that Europe will skate past the thin
ice they are on,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi
Futures Perspective in New York. “We are seeing a shift to a
more hopeful outlook, not a change in the fundamentals.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 1.4 percent and the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  increased 0.9 percent.  China is the second-biggest crude consuming country after
the U.S. The countries using the euro accounted for about 12
percent of global oil demand in 2010, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
Statistical Review of World Energy released in June.  Supply, Demand  Demand is growing “despite concerns over the softening
economic data,”  David Greely , head of energy research at
Goldman Sachs in New York, said in a report e-mailed today.
“The supply of oil actually available to the market is
increasingly constrained by the inability of Iran to market its
oil owing to the effects of U.S. and European sanctions.”  International sanctions against Iran over its nuclear
program have hampered crude exports from the second-largest
producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.
The European Union is set to ban purchases of Iranian crude
starting in July.  Last month, representatives from the U.S., Russia, China,
the U.K., France and Germany held their first international
meeting with  Iran  on its nuclear program in 15 months. They
agreed to resume the negotiations in Baghdad on May 23.  Oil in New York has long-term technical support at $89.83 a
barrel, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. On the weekly
chart, that’s the 50 percent Fibonacci retracement of the
intraday decline to $32.40 in December 2008 from a record high
of $147.27 in July that year. Futures last traded at that price
in November 2011.  Crude oil’s relative strength index remained below 30,
signaling it may be oversold. The 14-day RSI has been below 30
since May 11, signaling further losses may not be sustainable.
Buy orders tend to be clustered near chart-support levels. The
RSI was at 27 today.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 361,269
contracts as of 3:06 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 561,992
contracts May 18, 5.5 percent below the three-month average.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  