-- Oil Trades Near Three-Day High on Economy, Iran Sanctions
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-05-22T07:11:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/oil-gains-a-second-day-as-u-s-opposes-easing-of-iran-sanctions.html
Oil gained for a second day in  New
York  on speculation a strengthening U.S. economy will increase
fuel demand and the Obama administration will refrain from
easing sanctions against  Iran .  Futures rose as much as 0.5 percent, extending yesterday
advance, the first in seven days. The U.S. won’t support
relaxing sanctions that are hobbling Iran’s oil exports when
negotiators meet in Baghdad tomorrow for a second round of talks
on the Persian Gulf nation’s nuclear program, according to
officials who declined to be identified because of the issue’s
sensitivity. Existing U.S. home sales climbed last month,
according to a Bloomberg News survey before a report today.  “We’ve still got problems in the  Middle East ,”  Jonathan Barratt , chief executive of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity-
markets newsletter in Sydney, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “I can start to see a little level of optimism
creeping into the market, and that should support the price. We
are at the lower end, and I think we’re heading back through to
$100 a barrel” for New York crude, he said.  Crude for June delivery, which expires today, rose as much
as 44 cents and was 0.3 percent higher at $92.82 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 3:05
p.m. Singapore time. The more-actively traded July contract
climbed 24 cents to $93.10. Front-month futures rose 1.2 percent
yesterday and are down 6 percent this year.  Brent oil for July settlement was at $109.24 a barrel, up
43 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
front-month price for the European benchmark contract was at a
 premium  to New York crude of $16.13, up from $15.95 yesterday.  Iran Sanctions  Oil rebounded in New York yesterday after futures reached
technical support at $90.42 a barrel, data compiled by Bloomberg
shows. For the most-actively traded July contract, that’s the
38.2 percent Fibonacci retracement of the rise from $77.40, the
intraday low of Oct. 4 last year, to the March 1 high of $111.49.
Buy orders tend to be clustered near chart-support levels.  The U.S., U.K.,  France ,  China ,  Russia  and  Germany  will hold
talks tomorrow with Iran, the second-biggest producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, as Western
sanctions hamper Iran’s ability to export and get paid for crude.
The U.S. is in no hurry to ease the pressure before a deal is
done, the officials said.  New York oil has fallen 12 percent this month amid concern
the global economy is slowing, threatening fuel demand. Data
today may signal growth in the U.S. Existing-home  sales 
increased 2.9 percent to a 4.61 million annual rate in April
compared with March, according to a Bloomberg News survey before
a report from the National Association of Realtors.  U.S. Stockpiles  U.S. crude inventories probably rose  1.5 million barrels 
last week, a separate Bloomberg News survey showed before an
Energy Department report tomorrow. It will be the ninth week of
gains. Gasoline supplies may have climbed 500,000 barrels,
according to the median estimate of nine analysts.  The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  will
release separate stockpile data today.  A tropical depression in the Pacific may develop into a
storm today and a hurricane tomorrow that threatens  Mexico ’s
southwest coast, while Atlantic Tropical Storm Alberto moves
away from the U.S. Southeast. The depression, 505 miles (810
kilometers) south-southwest of  Acapulco , Mexico, in the Pacific,
has top winds of 35 miles per hour, according to a National
Hurricane Center advisory issued before 11 p.m. East Coast time
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  