-- World’s Tallest Tower Opening Draws Crowds in Tokyo Rains
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2012-05-22T08:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/tokyo-opens-world-s-tallest-tower-to-about-200-000-people.html
The  Tokyo Skytree , twice as tall as
the Eiffel Tower, and its surrounding retail and office complex
opened today with thousands queuing in the rain for a first look
at the 143 billion yen ($1.8 billion) development.  Owner  Tobu Railway Co. (9001)  had predicted 200,000 first-day
visitors, lured by the 300-plus shops and restaurants, along
with the lighting up of the tower at night. The development in
eastern  Tokyo  opened before its 10 a.m. schedule to allow the
crowds to escape the bad weather.  “There are so many stores in one place, and it’s easy to
shop,” said Miho Yabe, a 24 year-old-year fitness-club
employee, who spent two hours traveling to Tokyo Skytree from
neighboring Chiba prefecture. “I’ll come back again when it’s
not as crowded.”  Tobu Railway expects the 634-meter (2,080 feet) tower and
its surrounding building to draw 32 million visitors in its
first year, surpassing the numbers at Tokyo Disney Resort. The
rail company is counting on the development, which also includes
an aquarium and planetarium, to lure shoppers as  Japan ’s
shrinking population threatens to damp rail travel.  Tokyo Skytree, which took four years to build, surpasses
the 600-meter  Canton Tower  in  Guangzhou ,  China , as the world’s
tallest, according to the  Council on Tall Buildings and Urban
Habitat . Dubai’s  Burj Khalifa  is the tallest building at 828
meters. A tower is a structure where less than half the height
is occupied by usable floor space, according to the council.  Tobu, which also operates buses, hotels, shopping centers,
department stores, golf courses and sports clubs,  rose  0.8
percent to 389 yen at the close of trading in Tokyo. It’s jumped
25 percent in the past year,  compared  with an 11 percent decline
for the benchmark Topix Index.  Observation Decks  The tower, which cost  65 billion yen  on its own, has two
observation decks, one at 350 meters and another at 450 meters.
A trip to the lower deck will cost 2,000 yen. Visits up the
tower are fully booked through July 11, said Kenji Aoyagi, a
Tobu spokesman.  “It’s great,” said Hiromi Kobayashi, a 36-year-old
housewife visiting with her mother and two-year-old daughter.
“I want to come back and visit the aquarium next time.”  Six TV stations, including state-owned NHK, will start
using the Skytree for transmissions next year. The tower’s steel
frame changes from a triangle at the base to a circle at the
top, and its curves and arches reflect a traditional Samurai
sword, according to Tobu, the third biggest train operator by
ticket sales in Tokyo and surrounding cities.  Skytree is also about double the height of Japan’s previous
record-holder, the 333-meter  Tokyo Tower , which opened in 1958.  The new tower looms over Tokyo’s  Asakusa  district,
previously one of the city’s main entertainment areas and still
home to geishas and traditional Japanese restaurants. The area
also houses Senso-ji temple, a popular tourist site, famed for
 Kaminarimon , Thunder Gate.  “As a local I’m very pleased,” Sadaharu Oh, Japan’s
baseball home-run record holder, said at the opening ceremony.
He grew up in Sumida City, one of Tokyo’s 23 wards, and home to
the tower.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  