-- Money Market Stresses Ease After Group of Eight’s Discussions
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-05-21T13:39:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/money-market-stresses-ease-after-group-of-eight-s-discussions.html
Money-market indicators signaled the
ability of banks to borrow and lend short term funds increased
after leaders of the Group of Eight met and urged Greece stay in
the Euro and  China  said it would focus on boosting growth.  Three-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor, which
represents the rate at which banks say it would cost to borrow
from another,  was  0.46685 percent for a fourth day, according to
the British Bankers’ Association.  The Libor-OIS spread, a gauge
of banks reluctance to lend, widened to 30.3 basis points from
29.9 basis points on May 18.  Overnight index swaps, or OIS, give traders predictions on
where the Federal Reserve’s effective funds rate will average
for the term of the swap. The central bank’s target rate is set
in a range of zero to 0.25 percent.  Predictions in the forward market for Libor-OIS, known as
the FRA/OIS spread, narrowed to 40.2 basis points from 41.7
basis points on May 18, according to the second rolling three-
month contracts.  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, was little changed at 36 basis points. The gap is a
gauge of investors’ perceptions of U.S. banking sector credit
risk as swap rates are derived from expectations for dollar
Libor. Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors in many
types of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan
securities.  The cost for European banks to convert euro-denominated
payment streams into dollars-based funding via the cross
currency swaps market declined. The three-month cross-currency
basis swap was 51.6 basis points below Euribor, compared to 52.6
basis points below May 18.  Euribor-OIS Spread  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight indexed swaps, held steady.
The measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to one another was
unchanged at 38 basis points. The measure has fallen from 95
basis points at the start of the year.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S.  commercial paper 
rose $27.2 billion to $993.6 billion outstanding in the week
ended May 16, according to  Federal Reserve  data. The market for
corporate borrowing through U.S. commercial paper has risen for
three consecutive weeks.  The price on one-year cross-currency basis swaps between
yen and U.S. dollars rose to minus 36.8 basis points from minus
38.3 basis points May 18. A negative swap price indicates
investors are willing to receive reduced interest payments on
the yen they lend in order to obtain the needed financing in
dollars.  Foreign-exchange swaps are typically for periods of less
than a year, while cross-currency basis swaps usually range from
one to 30 years. The latter are agreements in which a person
borrows in one currency and simultaneously lends in a different
currency. The trade involves the exchange of two different
floating-rate payments, each denominated in a different currency
and based on a different index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in  New York  at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  