-- Orange-Juice Futures Rally Most Since January on Florida Storms
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2012-05-21T14:42:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/orange-juice-futures-rally-most-since-january-on-florida-storms.html
Orange-juice  futures rose the most in
four months on mounting speculation that this year’s hurricane
season poses a greater risk than normal to Florida citrus
groves, the world’s second largest.  While Tropical Storm Alberto probably poses no threat to
Florida’s orange groves, “indication of early tropical activity
in the vicinity is getting the markets jittery,” Donald Keeney,
a senior agricultural meteorologist at MDA Information Systems
Inc., said today in an e-mail. The  Atlantic hurricane season 
typically starts June 1. Before today, orange-juice futures had
tumbled 43 percent in the past year.  “We’re having a storm pretty early in the season,”  Jimmy Tintle , a market analyst with GreenKey Alternative Asset
Services in Longwood, Florida, said in a telephone interview.
“Everybody is getting their long bets in.”  Orange juice for July delivery surged 4.4 percent to
$1.0665 a pound at 10:37 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New York. A
close at that level will mark the first gain in a week and the
biggest since Jan. 23. Prices plunged 17 percent last week.  Alberto is projected to move northeast away from Florida,
Keeney said. Computer models of weather patterns show another
tropical system moving across Cuba, just southeast of Florida,
heading into the Bahamas later this week, and another will move
just east of the state later next week, Keeney said in an e-mail
from Gaithersburg, Maryland.  In the week ended May 15,  hedge funds  and speculators
shifted to a net-short position, betting prices will fall, for
the first time since at least December 2009, when government
records began.  Brazil is the world’s top citrus producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in  New York  at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  