-- Magic Fire Coach Van Gundy, GM Smith Gone After First-Round Exit
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-05-22T04:03:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/orlando-magic-fire-coach-van-gundy-after-dispute-with-howard.html
The  Orlando  Magic fired coach Stan Van Gundy and said General Manager Otis Smith will not return
following a season marked by a trade request by center  Dwight Howard  and a loss in the first round of the playoffs.  “It’s time for a new leadership and a new approach,”
Magic Chief Executive Officer Alex Martins said at a news
conference yesterday in Orlando,  Florida . “We simply came to
the decision that we were not on the right track.”  The moves came less than two weeks after the Magic’s season
ended with a five-game loss to the  Indiana Pacers  in their best-
of-seven National Basketball Association playoff series. Howard,
the team’s leading scorer and rebounder, missed the postseason
after back surgery.  A six-time All-Star, Howard requested that the Magic trade
him during the preseason and then agreed to stay with the team
at this year’s trading deadline. He waived the early termination
option in his contract that would have allowed him to end the
deal after this season and remains under contract with the Magic
through next season, when he’s set to make $19.5 million.  Van Gundy  told reporters on April 5 that Howard asked
management to have him dismissed. Howard denied Van Gundy’s
claim and Martins said yesterday that Howard never asked for the
coach to be fired.  “Let me say in no uncertain terms that Dwight did not want
to be a part of this decision, did not want to make this
decision and he never asked me to make this decision,” Martins
said. “Yes, their relationship was a challenge, but Dwight
Howard never asked me to fire Stan.”  Van Gundy, 52, has a 371-208 record in eight seasons with
the  Miami Heat  and the Magic.  Playoff Record  He led Orlando to the playoffs in each of his five seasons
with the team, including a spot in the NBA Finals in 2009. In
his first four seasons after being chosen as Orlando’s head
coach on June 7, 2007, Van Gundy directed the Magic to at least
50 wins per season.  Van Gundy told the Magic’s website in a text message that
he’s “ very proud ” of what the team accomplished during his
tenure and looks forward to whatever comes next.  The Magic went 37-29 in this lockout-shortened season and
earned the sixth playoff place in the Eastern Conference. They
had a 5-12 record without Howard, who was critical of Van
Gundy’s vocal coaching style, saying it hurt team morale.  “Stan, in my opinion, prepared our team as good as any
coach that I have ever been around in 25 years in the
business,” Martins said. “But I also think that there’s
another side to coaching.”  Three Division Titles  Smith became Orlando’s general manager in 2006 and took
over as president of basketball operations in 2010. The Magic
made the playoffs six straight years under Smith’s leadership,
winning three division titles. They weren’t able to get out of
the opening round of the playoffs the past two seasons.  “Our basketball operation has not gone in the right
direction over the last two years,” Martins said. “It’s time
for new leadership and a new voice with a different approach to
building a championship operation. Making the playoffs is simply
not good enough, and getting knocked out in the first round the
last two years is unacceptable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  