-- Toshiba Conspired With Rivals to Fix LCD Prices, Lawyer Says
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   P a m e l a   M a c L e a n
-- 2012-05-21T23:58:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/toshiba-lcd-price-fixing-antitrust-trial-begins-in-u-s-1-.html
Toshiba Corp. (6502)  conspired with rivals
to fix the price of display screens, forcing businesses and
consumers to pay more for televisions and  laptop computers , a
U.S. jury was told at the start of an antitrust trial.  Attorneys for U.S. makers of digital signs, home theater
equipment and office networks that bought panels told the 10
jurors in federal court in San Francisco today that Tokyo-based
Toshiba met with competitors and agreed to set prices for thin-
film-transistor liquid crystal display, or LCD, panels from 1999
to 2006.  “This is an antitrust case that involves a conspiracy that
started on a golf course in 1998,” Bruce Simon, an attorney for
the plaintiffs, said during opening statements in the five-year-
old lawsuit. “Toshiba was there.”  Toshiba, builder of nuclear power plants and notebook
computers, is the lone defendant on trial after at least seven
Japanese, Taiwanese and South Korean panel makers settled civil
claims filed on behalf of buyers.  Sharp Corp. (6753)  and  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  were among those who agreed to pay $927 million
in settlements reached in December.  AU Optronics Corp. (2409) ,  Taiwan ’s second-largest LCD maker, has
reached a settlement, lawyers for the company and plaintiffs
said at a hearing last month without disclosing an amount.  LG
Display Co. (034220)  reached a settlement May 1 to resolve, for an
undisclosed amount, claims by consumers and eight U.S. states.  Justice Department Probe  Overcharges linked to price fixing may total $867 million,
lawyers for the plaintiffs said in court filings made before
this month’s settlements. Under antitrust law, defendants can be
assessed damages of three times the overcharge.  A U.S. Justice Department criminal investigation of LCD
price fixing led to guilty pleas by LG Display,  Chunghwa Picture
Tubes (2475)  and Sharp. The companies agreed in 2008 and 2009 to pay
$585 million in criminal fines for participating in so-called
crystal meetings in  Asia  where they agreed on what prices to
offer customers, the U.S. said.  Toshiba wasn’t indicted in the federal probe. The current
lawsuit was filed on behalf of direct purchasers of flat panels.  Toshiba denies participating in a conspiracy or fixing
prices. Executives met with competitors occasionally for
legitimate reasons, such as to discuss joint ventures, exchange
market information and verify prices quoted by customers,
 Christopher Curran , Toshiba’s lawyer, said in court filings.  ‘Never Participated’  The conspiracy was between Korean and Taiwanese
competitors, and Japanese makers of LCD panels including Toshiba
didn’t participate, he told jurors today in opening arguments.  “There was a conspiracy but Toshiba wasn’t in it,” Curran
said. “Toshiba never participated, never even attended the
crystal meetings.”  The company didn’t need to because it wasn’t making the
type of products that were the subject of the talks, Curran
said. There’s no evidence showing that Toshiba harmed any of the
companies that sued it, he said.  AU Optronics was unsuccessful when it similarly argued
before a jury at a criminal trial this year that its officials
met with competitors for legitimate business reasons. The
company, its vice chairman and a senior vice president were
convicted in March of colluding with rivals to fix LCD prices.
The trial took place in the same courtroom as today’s
proceedings.  Fine of $1 Billion  The jury acquitted two other officials of the Hsinchu-based
company and couldn’t reach a unanimous decision on a fifth. AU
Optronics faces a fine of as much as $1 billion, the  Justice
Department  said.  Simon, the lawyer for the plaintiffs in the Toshiba case,
said in court filings that he will prove at trial that the
company received information from the crystal meetings and had
bilateral meetings in Asia and the U.S. Such conduct comprised
the conspiracy to fix prices, he argued.  When Japanese companies first entered the conspiracy,
bilateral discussions were the primary method of communication,
according to the civil complaint. The talks created a model for
how the conspiracy would be carried out after the South Korean
and Taiwanese defendants joined, the plaintiffs allege.  Simon cited an August 2004 e-mail from Toshiba executive
Makoto Chiba to an associate that said in part, “Stop
circulating things such as proceeding with violations of
antitrust laws via e-mails that include other involved
parties.”  H.B. Suh, former head of LCD sales at Samsung who was the
first witness to testify for panel buyers, said Toshiba was
among the competitors with which he had contacts.  “The LCD industry has a tendency to be very price
sensitive, so the company was subject to losses, that’s why I
tried to prevent that,” said Suh, who left Samsung in March.
“That is why I had those meetings.”  Toshiba was the sixth-biggest maker of flat-panel TVs last
year, with a 5.1 percent share in the global market, down from
5.7 percent in 2010, according to DisplaySearch, a  Santa Clara ,
California-based market research company.  The case is In re TFT-LCD (Plat Panel)  Antitrust
Litigation , 07-1827, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
 California  ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Pamela MacLean at  pmaclean@pacbell.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  