-- Most Chinese Stocks Rise on Premier Wen’s Comments, Led by Rail
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-05-21T03:59:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/most-chinese-stocks-rise-on-premier-wen-s-comments-led-by-rail.html
Most  Chinese stocks  rose after
Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the government will focus more on
bolstering economic growth, overshadowing concern Europe’s debt
crisis will deteriorate.  CSR Corp. and  China  CNR Corp., the nation’s two biggest
train makers, jumped more than 4 percent after the 21st Century
Business Herald reported the railway ministry has gotten a
credit line of more than 2 trillion yuan ($316 billion),
signaling transport projects may resume. Cosco Shipping Co., a
unit of China’s biggest shipping company, fell 1.9 percent after
a gathering of the leaders of the Group of Eight nations failed
to deliver a unified strategy to quell the  European debt crisis .  “Premier Wen’s speech is a signal that future policies
will emphasize growth,” said Mao Sheng, an analyst for Huaxi
Securities Co. in Chengdu. “It could be a change in fiscal,
monetary or tax-related policies but for sure, the government is
now eyeing the economy.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, added 7 points, or 0.3 percent, to
2,351.57 at the 11:30 a.m. local-time break, with 457 stocks
gaining and 422 falling. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  advanced 0.8 percent
to 2,593.71. The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-
traded Chinese shares in the U.S. dropped 7.2 percent in  New
York  last week.  For the year, the Shanghai index has climbed 6.9 percent on
expectations the government will relax monetary policies and
take more measures to bolster equities. Stocks in the gauge are
valued at 10.1 times estimated earnings, compared with a record
low of 8.9 times on Jan. 6, according to weekly  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The country should properly handle the relationship
between maintaining growth, adjusting economic structures and
managing inflationary expectations,” Wen said during a tour of
Wuhan, the capital of Hubei province, from Friday to Sunday.  Easing Speculation  Wen’s remarks cited in the report, which didn’t mention
concern about inflation, indicate the government might take more
aggressive steps to support the economy after April data showed
the slowdown may be sharper than expected. The central bank this
month cut banks’ reserve requirement ratio for the third time
since November to boost liquidity.  Gauges of energy and material stocks rose 1.6 percent and
1.3 percent respectively, the second- and third-biggest gainers
in the CSI 300. China Shenhua Energy Co., the biggest coal
producer, advanced 1.1 percent to 25.93  yuan , while Jiangxi
Copper Co., the largest producer of the metal, jumped 2 percent
to 25.61 yuan.  Growth Concerns  Copper futures rose as much as 1.2 percent to $7,743.25 a
metric ton on the London Metal Exchange and was at $7,740 by
10:34 a.m. Tokyo time. Oil gained as much as 0.6 percent after
falling to the lowest close in almost seven months on May 18.  China is seriously concerned about growth and ready to
introduce further stimulus measures, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch economist Lu Ting wrote in a note. He expects three more
cuts in lenders’ reserve ratios before the end of the year as
the chance of a cut in  interest rates  increases. China central
bank is unlikely to cut benchmark interest rates this year as
inflation remains “sticky,” Everbright Securities economist Xu
Gao wrote in a note to clients.  Morgan Stanley is the latest brokerage to cut its gross
domestic product estimate for China for this year. It lowered
its forecast to 8.5 percent from 9 percent. Citigroup Inc.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp. and UBS AG pared
their forecasts after April economic data were released.  Cosco Shipping fell 1.9 percent to 4.73 yuan. China Cosco
Holdings Ltd. slipped 0.6 percent to 5.02 yuan.  The G-8 leaders who met at Camp David over the weekend
pushed for  Greece  to stay in the euro area and supported
boosting growth, even as  Germany  said Europe can’t spend its way
out of the debt crisis.  Rail Stocks  “While there are legitimate economic concerns about China,
the elephant in the room is the European sovereign situation,”
Lewis Kaufman, a  Santa Fe , New Mexico-based money manager at
Thornburg Investment Management, who helps manage $79 billion,
said in a phone interview. “It’s a difficult environment for
risk markets, which means  emerging markets  including China.”  China CNR gained 4.1 percent to 4.33 yuan after the 21st
Century Business Herald reported the railway ministry obtained a
tentative credit line of more than 2 trillion yuan from banks.
CSR Corp. advanced 4.3 percent to 4.87 yuan.  The government may further ease credit supply, start more
projects, spend more on social welfare and quicken construction
of social housing and infrastructure, especially in railway,
subway, urban transit, water system and  power grid , according to
the Bank of America report.  U.S.-Traded China Stocks  Chinese companies traded in the U.S. fell to the lowest
valuations versus the biggest emerging markets in a year as
 Europe ’s debt crisis deepened and growth in the world’s second-
largest economy slowed.  Companies in the China-US gauge traded at the smallest
premium to the average member of the MSCI BRIC Index of  Brazil ,
 Russia ,  India  and China since March 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund, the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., slid 6.6 percent last week to
$33, the lowest level since Oct. 20.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. and Yingli Green Energy Holding
Co. tumbled more than 20 percent last week after the U.S.
imposed tariffs on Chinese-made solar cells. Yanzhou Coal Mining
Co. traded at a 2.2 percent discount to its Hong Kong shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  