-- Total Expects to Resume Elgin Output Before Year-End After Leak
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-05-21T13:31:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/total-expects-to-resume-elgin-output-before-year-end-after-leak.html
Total SA (FP) ,  Europe ’s third-largest oil
company, expects to resume production at its Elgin and Franklin
fields before the end of 2012 after plugging a natural-gas leak.  “The worst-case scenario is that we can’t restart before
the end of year,” said Chief Financial Officer Patrick de la Chevardiere in an interview today. The cost of lost production
and plugging the  North Sea  well may reach about $400 million by
the end of this year, a fraction of the slump in the company’s
market capitalization since the leak erupted March 25, he said.  “What is clear is that the market overreacted to the
incident,” he said. The company estimates it’s undervalued by 4
percent to 5 percent compared with its European peers.  Total seeks to turn the page on an incident that rattled
confidence in its ability to meet a pledge to boost output in
coming years. In the next few weeks Total plans to cement and
abandon the G4 well that leaked for almost eight weeks.  The Elgin field, about 240 kilometers (150 miles) east of
Aberdeen,  Scotland , and the nearby Franklin operation together
provide about 2 percent of the company’s annual output.  “I’m not changing my target for 2015,” De la Chevardiere
said, with output picking up even if there isn’t any growth this
year after the Elgin incident and halts in Nigeria and Yemen.  The  explorer  has pledged to raise production on average 2.5
percent a year from 2010 to 2015, with 25 new projects expected
to add 600,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day. That’s based on
a Brent crude price of $100 a barrel, with 95 percent of the
developments either already producing or being developed.  Depends on Syria  Total had forecast output growth of 2 percent to 3 percent
in 2012 depending on  Syria , where the company halted operations
because of political violence. The Paris-based operator plans to
boost production and explore more aggressively to reverse a
slump that saw output slide to a nine-year low in 2009.  The leak is being probed after forcing Total to evacuate
the three platforms at the Elgin and Franklin fields, site of
some of the biggest installations in the world used to pump oil
and natural gas from high-pressure, high-temperature wells.  Seepage from the G4 wellhead may have come from a rock
formation about 4 kilometers under the seabed and above the main
producing reservoir that was plugged more than a year ago,
according to Total’s  website .  “It’s not a given that the incident is linked to high-
pressure, high-temperature characteristics,” De la Chevardiere
said. “I don’t have a rational explanation today. This is the
first incident of this kind in this type of field.”  Health and Safety  Total runs Elgin and Franklin with a 46 percent stake and
has drilled new wells and added platforms in recent years to try
to delay their decline. The U.K.’s Health and Safety Executive
will decide on whether to allow Total to resume operations, a
choice on which De la Chevardiere has “no visibility.”  Lost output is costing the company $1.5 million a day and
another $50 million after taxes and insurance for plugging the
leak including payments for rigs and outside expertise.  “There were no deaths, no injuries and practically no
pollution,” De la Chevardiere said. Total isn’t expecting legal
challenges over Elgin because pollution was limited, according
to the company. The leak is mostly methane, a greenhouse gas
that isn’t toxic, while condensate volumes were small, forming a
thin sheen that evaporated or was quickly degraded, it said.  “Who would go after us and why? Who was harmed?” he said.
“Losing 55,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day isn’t fun, but
it isn’t threatening the viability of our investment program.”  The company also stopped a natural-gas leak in the Niger
Delta region of  Nigeria  on May 13. “Nigeria will restart by the
end of the year,” De la Chevardiere said today, with Total’s
share of production 20,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  