-- Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Files for Bankruptcy
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-05-21T17:16:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/houghton-mifflin-harcourt-publishing-files-for-bankruptcy-1-.html
Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing
Co., the publisher of authors from  Mark Twain  to J.R.R. Tolkien,
sought  bankruptcy protection  to eliminate more than $3 billion
in debt.  The company, based in  Boston , listed $2.68 billion in
assets and $3.53 billion in debt in Chapter 11 documents filed
today in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan . More than 20
affiliates also entered bankruptcy, including Broderbund LLC and
Classroom Connect Inc.  “The global financial crisis over the past several years
has negatively affected” Houghton Mifflin’s financial
performance, in a business that “depends largely on state and
local funding” for the schoolbook market, said William Bayers,
company general counsel, in court papers.  He cited “recession-driven decreases” and “purchase
deferrals” by the states and a “lack of anticipated federal
stimulus support” for “substantial revenue decline.”  The filing comes as traditional print-book publishing faces
growing competition from e-books. Sales of adult paperbacks and
hardcover books fell 18 percent from 2010 to 2011, according to
the Association of American Publishers. Borders Group Inc., the
second-largest U.S. bookstore chain, filed for bankruptcy in
February 2011.  Unsecured Creditors  Among Houghton Mifflin’s largest unsecured creditors listed
in court papers were Chicago-based  R.R. Donnelley & Sons Co. (RRD)  and
New York-based Williams Lea Inc., owed more than $20 million
each in trade debt.  Houghton said May 11 it received support from more than 70
percent of its lenders to restructure its debt. The company has
about $2.85 billion of loans maturing in the next two years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company, with about $1.29 billion in sales last year,
said it plans to borrow as much as $500 million through
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  to complete the bankruptcy process, court papers
show.  Under the proposed recovery plan, Houghton’s long-term bank
loan and bond debt would convert to all of the equity in the
reorganized company, according to a May 11 statement. Existing
shareholders would receive warrants for 5 percent of the new
stock if they voted in favor of the plan.  Revenue Source  Houghton provides educational products and services to
about 60 million students in 120 countries, according to its
 website . The company also prints and distributes electronic
books owned by one of  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s publishing arms, under
an agreement announced in January.  The accord allows Amazon, the world’s largest Internet
retailer, to market books to people who don’t visit its site and
provides Houghton with a new source of revenue as sales decline
at brick-and-mortar bookstores.  Moody’s Investors Service in May cut Houghton’s corporate
credit grade to Ca, the second-lowest rating and reserved for
borrowers that “offer very poor financial security.” In March,
Moody’s said the company’s capital structure was “unsustainable
without a significant rebound in earnings.”  Houghton’s origins date to 1832, according to the company.
Among its authors are Ralph Waldo Emerson and Jonathan Safran
Foer, and the company’s titles include the “Curious George”
and “Lord of the Rings” books.  The case is In re Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Co,
12-bk-12171, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New
York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 