-- Louis Vuitton Tops Hermes as World’s Most Valuable Luxury Brand
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-05-21T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/louis-vuitton-tops-hermes-as-world-s-most-valuable-luxury-brand.html
Louis Vuitton , the French maker of
laminated canvas handbags, was named the world’s most valuable
luxury brand for a seventh consecutive year.  The brand, owned by Paris-based  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis
Vuitton SA (MC) , is worth $25.9 billion, a 7 percent increase from
2011, according to Millward Brown Optimor’s 2012 BrandZ study
published today. Hermes, in which LVMH owns a stake, rose to
second place with a value of $19.1 billion, up 61 percent on
last year. Rolex, the closely-held Swiss watch brand, was ranked
third at $7.17 billion, a 36 percent gain.  “Luxury is seen as a good investment with people
increasingly buying classic pieces rather than high fashion,”
Millward Brown Optimor Managing Director Nick Cooper said in a
statement. “Those who can afford it indulge, including young
professionals who, increasingly unable to buy houses, are
spending their disposable income on mid-tier luxury.”  Quality craftsmanship, heritage and history are key factors
of success for luxury brands, according to the study. Luxury
makers “can embrace brand management as a critical competency
for building long-term financial value,” Cooper said.  Vuitton’s value amounts to about a third of LVMH’s market
capitalization of 61.05 billion euros ($78 billion).  Chanel, which ranked fourth in the study, saw its value
decrease 2 percent to $6.68 billion, while the value of fifth-
placed Gucci fell 14 percent to $6.42 billion. Gucci’s worth was
affected by a decline in owner  PPR SA (PP) ’s share price last year,
according to an external spokeswoman for Millward Brown Optimor.  Prada, Cartier  Prada, which sold shares in  Hong Kong ’s biggest initial
public offering last year, made its debut in the luxury ranking
in sixth place with a value of $5.7 billion. Prada plans to add
about 80 stores annually over the next three years, many of
which will be directly owned, reflecting a general trend among
luxury makers to assert tighter brand control by shifting away
from licensing and franchising, according to the study.  Cartier, the jewelry brand owned by Geneva-based  Cie.
Financiere Richemont SA (CFR) , Hennessy cognac and Moet & Chandon
champagne were seventh, eighth and ninth in the study,
respectively, with values of $4.22 billion to $4.84 billion.
LVMH, owner of Hennessy and Moet & Chandon, controls or has
stakes in four of the industry’s 10-most valuable brands. The
company holds a 22.3 percent stake in  Hermes International SCA. (RMS)   The Burberry brand ranked 10th with a value of $4.09
billion, a 21 percent increase on the previous year and almost
half of its market capitalization of 6.1 billion pounds ($9.7
billion).  Vuitton was the 21st most-valuable brand across 13
industries in the BrandZ study. Apple, the maker of the iPad
tablet, ranked first with its estimated value rising 19 percent
to $182.9 billion, according to Millward Brown Optimor.  The study, commissioned by  WPP Plc (WPP) , was based on interviews
with consumers as well as analysis of company performance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 