-- Lowe’s Cuts Forecast as Store Sales Trail Estimates
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-05-21T20:21:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/lowe-s-profit-exceeds-estimates-as-warm-weather-boosts-revenue.html
Lowe’s Cos. (LOW) , the second-largest U.S.
home-improvement retailer, tumbled the most in more than two
years after cutting its full-year profit forecast amid sales
growth that trailed analysts’ estimates.  The shares  fell  10 percent to $25.60 at the close in New
York for the biggest decline since August 2009.  Lowe’s trimmed the number of sales discounts by 30 percent
in the first quarter as Chief Executive Officer  Robert Niblock 
shifts to consistent everyday prices to compete with faster-
growing  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  Sales by stores open at least a year
increased 2.6 percent in the quarter, trailing the gain of 4.2
percent projected by analysts.  “Lowe’s is still in the earlier stages of executing its
turnaround,” Christopher Horvers, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase
& Co. in  New York , said today in a note. He rates Lowe’s as
neutral, equivalent to a hold rating, and said its results
signal “sales trends decelerating, jobs softening and the
summer being a seasonally weak period to own retailers.”  Profit will be as much as $1.83 a share in the year ending
Feb. 1, down from a previous projection of a maximum of $1.85 a
share, the Mooresville, North Carolina-based retailer said today
in a statement. That trailed the average  estimate  of $1.87 by
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  A reduction of promotions hurt appliance sales last
quarter. Purchases exceeding $500 declined 1 percent and
increased 2 percent for purchases of $50 and below, Chief
Financial Officer Robert Hull said on a conference call today.  Lowe’s net income rose 14 percent to $527 million in the
quarter ended May 4 from $461 million a year earlier. Excluding
some items, per-share earnings advanced to 44 cents, compared
with the average  estimate  of 42 cents.  Home Depot, based in Atlanta, last week reported same-store
sales increased 5.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Burritt  in Greensboro,  North Carolina , at   cburritt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello in New York at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 