-- Playoffs Lure Coyotes Buyer as Losses Force City Firings
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-05-21T23:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/playoffs-lure-coyotes-buyer-as-losses-force-city-to-fire-workers.html
The city of Glendale,  Arizona ,
celebrated a decade ago when the  National Hockey League ’s
Coyotes abandoned downtown Phoenix for a taxpayer-funded
suburban arena surrounded by a sports and entertainment complex.  Since then, much of the planned development has stalled,
tax revenue and attendance have plunged, and the team’s former
owner filed for  bankruptcy protection . That left  the city  of
227,000 spending $25 million a year to subsidize the Coyotes’
losses as the NHL seeks a buyer for the franchise, which avoided
elimination in the playoffs with a win yesterday in game four of
the Western Conference finals against the  Los Angeles Kings .  Glendale officials are negotiating an arena lease that
would give a potential buyer of the team $17 million a year to
manage the arena, while they work to close a $32 million  budget
deficit  for the coming year. The  city  fired 49 workers last week
and is considering a sales-tax increase that would make its rate
one of the highest among major U.S. cities, according to the
Washington, D.C.-based non-profit  Tax Foundation .  “They said under the worst conditions financially we would
make over $100,000 on the arena” each year, said City
Councilman Phil Lieberman, who has served for 20 years. “How
could we go wrong? It would cost us nothing.”  The losses underscore the risks cities confront when they
offer incentives to lure professional sports teams and develop
nearby properties in anticipation of an economic surge, said
Timothy James, an economics professor at the W. P. Carey School
of Business at  Arizona State University  in Tempe.  ‘Big Hole’  “They’ve got a big hole in their budget to keep the ice
hockey team in town,” James said. “It’s not like a road system
or hospital where there are benefits everyone gets. It’s a
sports team. It should be able to stand up on its own.”  In 2003,  Glendale issued  $155.2 million in revenue bonds
backed by sales taxes to finance construction of what’s now the
Jobing.com Arena, to bring the Coyotes from Phoenix. The
franchise had moved there from Winnipeg, Manitoba, in 1996.  The ownership group was led by Steve Ellman, who planned to
develop retail, residential, restaurant, office and hotel space
around the stadium. The project, Westgate City Center, opened in
2006, just after Glendale scored another coup, drawing the
National Football League’s Arizona Cardinals to the new
 University of Phoenix  Stadium in the city.  Property Repossessed  While Westgate’s sales taxes were pledged to the arena
bonds, only about a third of the development was built,
Lieberman said. The developer defaulted on loans and the
property was repossessed by the lender, New York-based  IStar
Financial Inc. (SFI) , in September after it failed to sell at auction.  Jerry Moyes , who assumed ownership of the Coyotes in 2006,
filed for  Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection  in 2009.  Jim Balsillie , then co-chief executive officer of  Research In Motion
Ltd. (RIM) , offered to buy the team with the intention of moving it to
Hamilton, Ontario. The NHL bought the team for $140 million.
Fearing its prime arena tenant would leave, Glendale agreed to
subsidize the Coyotes’ losses until a new buyer emerged. Forbes
 values  the team at $134 million, the lowest in the NHL, with
annual losses of $24.4 million.  The second annual payment to the NHL is due soon, said
Julie Frisoni the city communications director.  In January, Moody’s Investors Services downgraded
Glendale’s general-obligation bond rating to Aa3 from Aa2 and
cut the outlook to negative. It lowered the rating on senior
lien excise tax revenue bonds issued by the Glendale Municipal
Property Corp., which include the debt for the arena, to A1 from
Aa3 with a negative outlook. Further assistance to the Coyotes
could prompt further downgrades, Moody’s said in a report.  Twice the Debt  Matt Jones, a senior vice president for Moody’s public
finance group, said Glendale has more than twice the debt level
of cities with the same rating.  The NHL announced two weeks ago that it had reached a
tentative agreement with a potential buyer, former San Jose
Sharks chief executive Greg Jamison, after the Coyotes advanced
past the first round of the playoffs for the first time since
the franchise moved to Arizona.  “I’m excited about the  Phoenix Coyotes ,” Jamison said at
a May 7 press conference with NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman just
before the Coyotes clinched a spot in the Western Conference
finals. “I’m excited about the Jobing.com Arena in Glendale,
Arizona.”  Few details of the purchase negotiations have been made
public. As Jamison negotiates with the NHL, he is simultaneously
negotiating a lease agreement with the city for the arena.
Frisoni, the city spokeswoman, said the city would like to
finalize an agreement in the next several weeks.  ‘Maintain the Team’  “It is important for us to maintain the team here,”
Frisoni said. The city would suffer a $200 million economic loss
over the next 20 years if the Coyotes left, she said.  “I want the Coyotes to go away,” Lieberman said, adding
that he and other opponents are outnumbered by Coyotes
supporters on the council. “How any member can vote to keep the
Coyotes and then raise the  sales tax  and the personal property
taxes, I can’t condone that.”  Among other obstacles: the  Goldwater Institute , a Phoenix-
based public policy research organization that advocates limited
government, scuttled another potential deal last year with the
threat of a lawsuit. Under that arrangement, Glendale planned to
issue $100 million in bonds to purchase parking rights to the
stadium from the new owner, a move that the institute charged
ran afoul of the state constitution’s ban on gifts to private
entities.  Byron Schlomach, chief economist at the institute, said the
proposed management fee to the team is too high, because
comparable facilities garner around $10 million. That could be
reason for the group to sue, he said.  ‘Like a Gambler’  “They seem like a gambler with their last buck,”
Schlomach said in a telephone interview. “There’s no way they
are going to spend it on a meal, they are going to try to get
back in the game.”  In recent years, the city has cut costs by putting
employees on mandatory furloughs, shortening library hours and
cutting youth and recreational programs. The firings last week
represented 2 percent of the city workforce and included five
police employees who aren’t sworn officers and 15 staff members
from the parks, recreation and library department, according to
a memo from Acting Human Resources Director  Jim Brown .  James of Arizona State said the fate of Glendale’s gamble
on hockey in the desert rests on recruiting more fans.  Even though it won the Pacific Division title, the Coyotes
had the worst attendance among the NHL’s 30 teams this year,
averaging 12,420 fans for their 41 home games. They’ve sold out
all eight of their home playoff games, averaging more than
17,250 fans.  “The long-term question is the viability of a Phoenix ice-
hockey team,” James said. “Can ice hockey work in Phoenix and
generate a large enough revenue stream?”  The Coyotes face the Kings tomorrow in Glendale for game
five of the Western Conference finals. The Coyotes won 2-0
yesterday against the Kings, who lead the series 3-1. The winner
advances to the Stanley Cup finals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  