-- Poland Sold 11 Billion Euros for Zloty on Market Last Year
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2012-05-21T15:18:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/poland-sold-11-billion-euros-for-zloty-on-market-last-year-1-.html
Poland’s government sold the
equivalent of 11 billion euros ($14 billion) in transactions on
the  currency market  last year, as the zloty tumbled the most in
four years.  The Finance Ministry started “regularly” converting funds
from the European Union directly on the market from the end of
April and also sold currencies from its sale of foreign debt, it
said in a statement on its website today. Poland exchanged the
equivalent of 1.25 billion euros on the currency market in 2010.  The government last year decided to sell as much as 14
billion in EU fund inflows on the market, instead of carrying
out the transactions with the central bank, to curb the zloty’s
weakening. The zloty lost 11 percent against the euro in 2011 on
concern the euro area debt crisis would hurt the Polish economy,
the second-biggest weakening after the forint among EU
currencies.  A stronger zloty curbs the local-currency value of the
country’s foreign debt and the  finance ministry  successfully
avoided public debt breaching 55 percent of gross domestic
product, which would have triggered austerity cuts.  The zloty has strengthened 3.1 percent against the euro so
far this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Swap Deals  The ministry also entered into derivative transactions last
year to manage debt payments, according to the Finance
Ministry’s statement. It took  interest-rate swaps , or derivative
contracts used to guard against fluctuations in borrowing costs,
with a nominal value of 24 billion zloty ($7 billion) and
maturity of up to 12 months.  The transactions cut the cost of managing debt by 1.61
billion zloty last year after increasing the expense by 1.56
billion zloty in 2010, the ministry said.  The ministry also entered into foreign-exchange swaps in
euros for a period of up to one month, it said. The trades,
worth 400 million euros, allowed the ministry to obtain 1.59
billion zloty for debt payments, the statement said.  The deals were in line with European Union accounting
rules, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  