-- Prostate-Cancer Test Not Worth Risk, Advisory Panel Says
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-05-22T05:02:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/prostate-cancer-test-not-worth-risk-advisory-panel-says.html
A prostate cancer test used by half 
of men older than 40 isn’t worth the risk of side effects from 
unnecessary treatment and shouldn’t be used to diagnose the 
disease, a U.S. panel said, affirming its earlier advice.  Scientific studies suggest the number of deaths avoided by
screening are “very small” compared with risks from treatment
that can include infections, incontinence, erectile dysfunction
and death, the U.S.  Preventive Services Task Force  said. The
panel kept its recommendation from October after some doctors
and patient groups said discouraging the tests would cost lives.  Prostate cancer was diagnosed in about 250,000 patients
last year and caused 33,700 deaths, the  task force  said. It is
the second-most common malignancy among American men. The
guidelines may affect whether insurers pay for blood tests
measuring prostate-specific antigen, or PSA, a protein associated
at high levels with the disease.  “Many men are being subjected to the harms of treatment of
prostate cancer that will never become symptomatic,” the panel
wrote in a report released yesterday by the  Annals of Internal
Medicine . “There is convincing evidence that PSA-based
screening for prostate cancer results in considerable
overtreatment.”  The government-sponsored task force is an independent
medical advisory group that drew criticism in 2009 for
questioning the value of breast-cancer screening in women
younger than 50.  Slow Tumor Growth  In its recommendation, the 16-doctor panel urged against
screening for men of all ages, updating a 2008 report that found
insufficient evidence to use it in those older than 75. The
report cited the slow growth of most prostate tumors as well as
false positive rates that may be as high as 80 percent.  While doctors are still free to suggest PSA tests, they
should be prepared to discuss the potential downsides, the
report said. Community- or employer-offered mass screenings
should be discontinued, the group said. The guidelines don’t
apply to men already diagnosed with the disease.  The findings won the endorsement of the  American Cancer
Society  in an accompanying editorial.  “Americans have been taught for decades to fear all cancer
and that the best way to deal with cancer is to find it early
and treat it aggressively,” said  Otis Brawley , the Atlanta-
based society’s chief medical officer. “As a result, many have
blind faith in early detection” with “little appreciation of
the harms that screening and medical interventions can cause.”  Digital Exams  Doctors can also detect prostate tumors through digital
rectal exams or ultrasound imaging, the report said. Symptoms of
the disease include problems urinating, frequent or painful
urination, painful ejaculation or a persistent ache in the back,
hips or pelvis, according to the  National Cancer Institute .  The PSA exam searches for high levels of prostate-specific
antigens in the blood. In a 2010 survey,  53 percent  of American
men older than 40 reported taking the test in the prior two
years, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention.  The panel based its recommendations largely on a U.S. study
of 77,000 men who were screened and a European review of
182,000. In the U.S., researchers found no evidence the test
reduced deaths. The  European trial  found the exam lowered the
 mortality rate . The improvement was due solely to results from
 Sweden  and the Netherlands, while patients in five other
countries fared no better after testing, the task force said.  Asymptomatic Cancer  “A substantial percentage of men who have asymptomatic
cancer detected by PSA screening have a tumor that either will
not progress or will progress so slowly that it would have
remained asymptomatic for the man’s lifetime,” the panel said.  Screening and early treatment prevent no more than one
death in 1,000, they said. Surgery and radiation to combat
tumors, meanwhile, cause at least 200 cases of incontinence and
erectile dysfunction per 1,000 patients, while as many as five
men in 1,000 die within a month of a prostate operation.  The report ignored problems with the U.S. and European data
as well as benefits beyond simply avoiding death, said nine
doctors who challenged the findings in a second editorial.  The recommendation “could result in delayed diagnosis of
curable cancer in young men who may then present with advanced
disease, illness and death,” said the physicians, led by
 William Catalona , a professor of urology at  Northwestern
University  in  Chicago . “Elimination of reimbursement for PSA
testing would take us back to an era when prostate cancer was
often discovered at advanced and incurable stages.”  Medicare Coverage  Prostate cancer screening remains covered “at this time”
under Medicare, the U.S. insurance plan for the elderly and
disabled, Ellen Griffith, a spokeswoman for the program, said.  Medicare recommends that men discuss the risks and benefits
with their doctors, she said in an e-mail before the release of
the recommendations. The task force report doesn’t require any
action on Medicare’s part, she said.  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  continues to cover PSA screening as
a preventive service, and will discuss the new recommendation
with the professional clinical community, said Tyler Mason, a
spokesman for the Minnetonka, Minnesota-based company, the top
private insurer in the U.S.  “We encourage our enrollees to discuss the potential
advantages and harms of PSA screening with their physician,”
Mason said in an e-mail.  ‘Medically Necessary’  WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , the second-biggest insurer, considers
prostate screening “medically necessary” for men from 50 to
75, said Kristin Binns, a spokeswoman, in an e-mail. The
Indianapolis-based company will continue to review the medical
evidence and “make appropriate decisions as research evolves,”
she said.  The task force’s report should put an end to campaigns for
mass screening popularized by celebrities and companies that
benefit from “the lucrative business” of testing, said the
Cancer Society’s Brawley, in his commentary.  “Many advocates for prostate cancer screening have ignored
the messages of caution,” he said. For patients, “informed or
shared decision making is simply not occurring.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  