-- Australia Lawmaker Thomson Says Prostitute Claims Fabricated
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-05-21T04:26:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/prostitute-claims-fabricated-australian-lawmaker-thomson-says.html
Australian lawmaker  Craig Thomson ,
whose survival in parliament is crucial to Prime Minister  Julia
Gillard ’s minority government, dismissed allegations he used a
union credit card to pay for prostitutes and said a former
colleague had threatened to set him up.  Thomson, who was national secretary of the Health Services
Union before becoming a lawmaker in 2007, said he was subject to
intimidation at the union and that a fellow official had
threatened to ruin his political career.  “I had many enemies in the HSU; many enemies who didn’t
like increased transparency,” Thomson said in a statement to
parliament. “I was the subject on many occasions of threats and
intimidation.”  Gillard, who ordered Thomson to step down from her  Labor
party  last month while the allegations are investigated, still
needs his support in the 150-seat lower house to pass
legislation. If he resigned or was convicted of a charge
carrying a jail term, the government -- trailing in opinion
polls -- may lose its majority and be forced to call national
elections before they are due in November 2013.  Gillard, in  Chicago  for a NATO summit on Afghanistan,
declined to discuss Thomson’s statement earlier today.  “I’m not engaging with these matters half a world away,”
she told reporters in Chicago.  Fair Work Australia, the nation’s workplace tribunal, has
found 181 violations of industrial relations laws and union
rules by former and current HSU officials and last month
referred its probe to the public prosecutor.  Thomson’s Vote  Thomson, now sitting as an independent lawmaker, has said
he will continue to support the government and hoped to return
to the Labor party when investigations are completed. His
leaving office would trigger a by-election in his consistency
that could shift the balance of power in the house to  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National coalition opposition if Labor loses
the seat.  Abbott on April 30 called for new elections, saying that
Thomson’s was now a “tainted vote” and Gillard has “no
integrity.”  The government has battled to build a reliable
parliamentary majority since the August 2010 election. The
government has 74 votes in the lower house, with the backing of
Thomson, independent lawmakers  Rob Oakeshott  and Tony Windsor,
and Greens member  Adam Bandt . Independent  Andrew Wilkie , who has
distanced himself from Gillard over disagreements on gambling
reform, has said he can no longer guarantee the government his
vote.  Opinion Poll  The Liberal-National coalition has 73 votes with the
backing of independent  Bob Katter . In the event of a tie on the
floor of the house, acting speaker Anna Burke, who is a Labor
lawmaker, gets a deciding vote.  Labor’s primary vote trails the opposition by 15 percentage
points, according to a Newspoll survey of 1,204 people conduced
May 11-13 and published in the Australian newspaper on May 15.
The survey had a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  