-- Putin’s Government Appointments Spur ADR Rally: Russia
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-05-22T03:18:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/putin-s-government-appointments-spur-adr-rally-russia-overnight.html
Russian stocks traded in New York
rebounded from an eight-month low after President  Vladimir Putin 
retained key ministers from the previous government to advance
plans of state-assets sales and reform of the pension system.  The  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded
Russian companies in the U.S. climbed 3.5 percent to 86.67,
rebounding from the lowest level since Oct. 5. Futures expiring
in June on Moscow’s dollar-denominated RTS Index rose 0.3
percent to 131,990 yesterday. OAO  Mechel (MTLR) , the nation’s largest
producer of coal for steelmakers, led gains while  OAO Sberbank (SBRCY) ,
Russia’s biggest lender, surged the most in almost six months.  Putin, who returned to the presidency this month after four
years as premier, appointed the country’s new Cabinet yesterday,
keeping the same ministers for the finance, defense and foreign
offices. The decision comes as Russian stocks entered a  bear
market  after tumbling  oil prices  and anti-Putin protests
intensified capital flight from the world’s biggest energy
exporter.  “This looks encouraging,” Mattias Westman, founder of
London-based Prosperity Capital Management, a Russia-focused
 fund manager  with about $5 billion of assets, said by telephone
from London. “The composition of the government proves that
they are serious about reforms. The Russian shares are trading
at valuations that are unheard of and cannot be sustainable.”  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, rose 4.3 percent, the most since Dec. 20,
to $25.20 yesterday. The RTS Volatility Index, which measures
expected swings in the index futures, fell 1.7 percent to 41.38
points in New York.  ‘Very Cheap’  OAO Mechel (MTL)  advanced 11 percent to $6.07 in New York
yesterday, gaining the most since Feb. 3. The company’s  stock 
rose 2.4 percent in Moscow to 191.40 rubles, or the equivalent
of $6.15. One ADR is equal to one ordinary share.  Sberbank gained 7.2 percent to $10.60, the most since Nov.
30, to trade at a premium to its Moscow-listed shares for the
first time in eight sessions.  The stock  rose 4.5 percent to
81.90 rubles, or $2.63, in Moscow yesterday, gaining for the
first time in four sessions.  Sberbank trades at 2.3 times estimated earnings, compared
with the 8.5 valuation for the average company on the MSCI
Emerging Markets Financial Companies Index.  “The Russian shares are very cheap,” Westman said. “They
are trading at valuations that are unheard of and cannot be
sustainable.”  New Ministers  Anton Siluanov kept the post of finance minister,  Sergei Lavrov  the foreign minister’s job and Anatoly Serdyukov remained
as defense minister. Among other appointments, Putin named
Andrei Belousov as economy minister and Alexander Novak as
energy minister.  Putin replaced Igor Sechin with Arkady Dvorkovich as a
deputy prime minister in charge of energy and appointed Olga
Golodets, ex-deputy mayor of Moscow, as prime minister in charge
of social policies. Putin reappointed First Deputy Prime
Minister  Igor Shuvalov .  “Markets react positively to the appointment of the new
government because it removes uncertainty,”  Alexander Morozov ,
chief economist for Russia at HSBC Holdings Plc in Moscow, said
by phone. “From the market point of view, this new government
is more reform-oriented, particularly because of Deputy Prime
Ministers Dvorkovich and Golodets.”  Russia’s government will proceed with its planned state
asset sales, even as markets remain volatile, Prime Minister
 Dmitry Medvedev  said at a government meeting in Moscow
yesterday. Russia plans to sell stakes in its largest companies
including Sberbank and RusHydro, as soon as this year.  Crude Oil  Oil gained in  New York  for the first session in seven
yesterday, with crude for June delivery adding 1.2 percent to
$92.57 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Brent oil
for July settlement increased 1.6 percent to $108.81 a barrel on
the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Urals crude ,
Russia’s main export blend, rose 2 percent to $108.29.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index rose 0.7 percent to
633.68 yesterday, gaining the most since April 26.  Russia was the first of the so-called BRIC countries to
enter a bear market in 2012 last week after the dollar-
denominated RTS Index extended a 20 percent decline on May 14
from a March 15 peak. Equities slumped after oil, the nation’s
largest export earner, fell to a six-month low.  Russia’s economy grew at an average annual rate of 7
percent during Putin’s presidency from 2000 to 2008 before
plunging 7.8 percent in 2009. The government reduced its
projection for economic growth this year to 3.4 percent, from
3.7 percent, because investment will be weaker than initially
estimated.  United Co. Rusal (486) , the world’s largest aluminum producer,
rose 1.6 percent to HK$4.55 in Hong Kong trading as of 11:15
a.m. local time. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 1.2 percent
today on speculation China and Europe will take more steps to
bolster economic growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  