-- Putin Aims for Stability by Keeping Russia’s Key Ministers
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-05-21T14:17:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/putin-keeps-finance-defense-foreign-ministers-adds-dvorkovich.html
President  Vladimir Putin  retained key
ministers in Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev’s new Cabinet,
keeping control over the levers of power during what he called a
challenging time for the global economy.  Putin, who returned to the presidency this month after four
years as premier, today reappointed the finance, defense and
foreign ministers as well as First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov , his pointman for relations with foreign investors and
the country’s richest businessmen. The Russian leader named
Medvedev’s economic aide, Arkady Dvorkovich, to oversee the
 energy industry  as one of the seven deputy prime ministers.  “Judging from the make-up of the new government and past
experience, Vladimir Putin will play the decisive role in
economic policy, he’ll have the final word,” said Kirill Rogov,
an economist who worked on one of the panels reviewing the
government’s Strategy 2020.  The new Cabinet takes over as  Europe ’s deepening sovereign-
debt crisis, falling oil prices and opposition protests against
Putin’s rule have accelerated capital flight from the world’s
largest energy exporter. Russia’s benchmark ruble-denominated
Micex Index had the biggest drop in seven months last week.  ‘Difficult Situation’  “I want to wish you success in the difficult situation in
which the world economy finds itself, a situation of uncertainty
with many unknown factors,” Putin, 59, said in a Kremlin
ceremony in Moscow. “In these conditions you will have to carry
out the program for Russia’s development.”  Putin wants to boost economic growth to at least 6 percent
a year to turn Russia into one of the world’s five largest
economies by purchasing power by 2015. The nation needs to
maintain its output of oil, its main export, at more than 10
million barrels a day, on par with  Saudi Arabia , the Russian
leader said in October 2010.  Putin’s former deputy premier in charge of energy,  Igor Sechin , while leaving the government, will “remain
influential” in the oil and gas industry, said  Ronald Smith , a
Moscow-based analyst at Citigroup Inc. Sechin has been nominated
to lead the state company that owns stakes in OAO Rosneft and
 OAO Gazprom. (GAZP)   Putin presented the new Cabinet today in a meeting
broadcast on state television. Anton Siluanov will keep the post
of finance minister,  Sergei Lavrov  the foreign minister’s job
and Anatoly Serdyukov remains as defense minister. Putin also
named Andrei Belousov as economy minister and Alexander Novak as
energy minister.  Oil Prices  While high oil prices from 2000-2008 enabled Russia to post
average economic growth of 7 percent, the European Union,
Russia’s largest export market, is grappling with its worst
economic crisis in decades just as the struggling world economy
puts a cap on crude prices.  Russia is dependent on oil and gas sales for half of
government revenue. The budget is slipping into a deficit and
the current-account balance is likely to turn negative in 2014
or 2015, said  Ivan Tchakarov , chief economist for  Russia  at
 Renaissance Capital  in Moscow.  Investor concerns spurred $42 billion in capital flight in
the first four months. The authorities also face the largest
unrest in Putin’s 12 years in power, sparked by demonstrations
against alleged fraud in December parliamentary elections.  First-Quarter Growth  Still, Russia’s economy grew 4.9 percent in the first
quarter, the fastest rate since the three months ended September
2011.  There will be close coordination between Medvedev’s Cabinet
and the Kremlin, who agree on the need divest state assets and
for Russia to be competitive in attracting foreign capital,
Kirill Dmitriev head of Kremlin-backed private-equity fund, the
Russian Direct Investment Fund, said by phone. Shuvalov, as a
“big champion” for foreign investors, will play a “key
role,” he said.  Shuvalov said today that the government will prepare an
accelerated schedule for the sale of state assets within the
next 10 days.  A major challenge for the Cabinet will be to accommodate
$160 billion in spending increases promised by Putin while
reducing the $115 oil price required to balance the budget, said
 Chris Weafer , chief strategist at Troika Dialog, the investment
bank owned by state-run  OAO Sberbank. (SBER)   Putin’s team will also spar with Medvedev’s because it
wants to limit the sale of stakes in strategic state companies
and delay raising the  retirement age , a measure needed to cut
the deficit in the pension system, Weafer said.  The problem for Russia is that Medvedev’s Cabinet doesn’t
have the political weight to carry out major programs, said  Gleb Pavlovsky , a Kremlin adviser until last year.  “In reality, it is a technical Cabinet, with the exception
of the prime minister, who has been handed unique vice-
presidential powers,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  