-- Rand Gains on Speculation China Stimulus to Boost Gold
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-05-21T16:58:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/rand-gains-on-speculation-china-stimulus-will-boost-commodities.html
The rand gained for the first time in
10 days as commodities rallied on bets  China  will focus more on
bolstering economic growth, boosting demand from the biggest
industrial metals user. Bonds advanced for a fourth day.  South Africa ’s currency appreciated as much as 1.2 percent
and traded 0.8 percent stronger at 8.2689 per dollar by 6:07
p.m. in Johannesburg. The rand weakened 2.9 percent last week.
The yield on the nation’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 dropped
six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 7.62 percent.  China should continue to implement a “proactive fiscal
policy and a prudent  monetary policy ” to maintain growth in the
world’s second-largest economy, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said during a
tour of Wuhan in Hubei province over the weekend. German and
French leaders meet today in Berlin before a European Union
summit on May 23 to map out a revised plan after  Greece ’s
possible exit erased almost $4 trillion from global stock
markets this month.  “Commodity prices have rebounded somewhat on the news,
with commodity currencies also beneficiaries of the tentative
improvement in sentiment,” Nomvuyo Guma, a currency strategist
at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed
comments. “A fairly light slate this week is likely to leave
markets watching  Europe .”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of raw materials advanced
for the first time in four days as metals including copper,
nickel and platinum gained. Metals and other commodities account
for 45 percent of South  Africa ’s exports. The nation has the
world’s biggest mineral reserves, according to Citigroup Inc.,
and is the biggest producer of platinum and chrome.  Monetary Policy  Bonds extended a four-day rally on speculation the central
bank will leave  interest rates  unchanged, even as inflation
quickens, to boost growth in Africa’s biggest economy.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor  Gill Marcus ,
will leave the benchmark rate at 5.5 percent on May 24,
according to all 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. South
Africa’s consumer price index probably rose by 6.2 percent in
April from a year earlier, according to the average estimates of
17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  A report on May 23 will show the consumer inflation rate
quickened to 6.2 percent in April, from 6 percent the previous
month, according to the median estimate of 17 economists. The
central bank’s mandate is to keep inflation within a 3 to 6
percent target range.  “The local rates market is pricing off growth
uncertainties, rather than the potential inflation risk posed by
the rand’s current weakness,” Carmen Nel and Mamello Matikinca,
analysts at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed
comments. “The market is fully pricing in a notably less
hawkish MPC statement for this week, expecting the focus to fall
squarely on growth risks.”  Forward-rate agreements starting in a year dropped four
basis points today to 4.64 percent, the lowest since December,
as traders pared bets on an interest-rate increase in the next
year. The contract rate has dropped from as high as 6.3 percent
in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  