-- Rangers-Devils Ticket Prices Averaging $474 for Newark’s Game 4
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-05-21T14:50:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/rangers-devils-ticket-prices-averaging-474-for-newark-s-game-4.html
Secondary-market ticket prices for
tonight’s game between the  New Jersey Devils  and  New York
Rangers  have climbed 7 percent since the Rangers grabbed a 2-1
series lead two days ago.  The average ticket price for the game at Prudential Center
in Newark, New Jersey, is $474, according to  TiqIQ , an
aggregator of the online resale ticket market. Tickets to Game 3
of the National Hockey League’s Eastern Conference finals, which
saw the Rangers shut out the Devils 3-0, averaged $367.  The best-of-seven series moves back to Madison Square
Garden in  New York  in two days, where either the Rangers will
look to clinch a spot in the Stanley Cup Finals or the series
will be knotted at 2-2. Tickets to the first two games in
Manhattan averaged $509.  “If the Rangers win tonight, ticket prices for Game 5
could be a premium with the Blue Shirts having a chance to get
to the Cup for the first time since 1994,” Chris Matcovich, a
spokesman for TiqIQ, said in an e-mail. “A Devils win tonight
though, sets up for a long, expensive series for fans and
possibly a 3rd Game 7 for Rangers fans.”  New York, the top seed in the conference, needed seven
games to eliminate the  Ottawa Senators  in the first round, and
just as many to top the Washington Capitals in the second. The
Devils beat the  Florida Panthers  in seven games and  Philadelphia
Flyers  in five to advance this far.  Goalie Henrik Lundqvist posted two shutouts in the Rangers’
wins against New Jersey, both by a score of 3-0. The Devils took
the second game, 3-2.  Game 6, if necessary, would return to Prudential Center,
and a seventh contest would again be at Madison Square Garden.  The series winner will take on either the Los Angeles Kings
or Phoenix Coyotes in the Stanley Cup Finals. The Kings lead the
Western Conference finals 3-1, with Game 5 tomorrow in Phoenix.  The Rangers last won the  Stanley Cup  in 1994, ending a 54-
year title drought. The Devils were champions in 1995, 2000 and
2003. Neither the Kings nor the Coyotes have ever won the title.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 