-- RBC Registers $12 Billion Covered-Bond Program After SEC Letter
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-05-21T16:50:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/rbc-registers-12-billion-covered-bond-program-after-sec-letter.html
Royal Bank of Canada  won permission
from the Securities and Exchange Commission to issue covered
bonds as publicly registered securities in the U.S., potentially
broadening the pool of investors for debt now sold through
private placements.  The bank  filed  documents today for a mortgage-backed
program under which it may issue as much as $12 billion of
bonds. The SEC, in a so-called no-action letter  posted  on the
agency’s website at the request of the Montreal-based lender,
said it won’t penalize the bank for selling such debt as
registered securities.  Sales conducted as private placements, known as 144A
offerings, are restricted to qualified institutional buyers,
have set trading limits and are excluded from the broadest
benchmark indexes tracked by bond buyers. That can limit demand,
depressing prices. The Financial Times earlier reported the
SEC’s response to RBC.  “This development will be viewed positively by the fixed-
income market and is a positive step forward for the broader
prospects” of U.S. dollar-denominated covered bonds, Ben Colice, head of covered bonds origination at the lender’s  RBC
Capital Markets  unit in New York, said in an e-mail.  Covered bonds are backed by both an issuer’s repayment
pledge and by assets, usually mortgages or public-sector loans,
which remain on the lender’s balance sheet and can be seized and
sold after a default. The debt traces its roots back to sales in
Prussia in 1769.  Foreign-Bank Sales  “Any different facts or conditions might require the
division to reach a different conclusion,” Raquel Fox, an
attorney fellow at the SEC, said in the agency’s May 18 letter
to RBC. “Further, this response expresses the division’s
position on enforcement action only and does not express any
legal conclusion on the question presented.”  Foreign issuers have been raising more cash in the U.S.
market as sales by the nation’s banks remain frozen. Dollar-
denominated sales by non-U.S. lenders this year have exceeded
$23 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In  Canada , the department of finance last month submitted a
bill that would “establish a statutory covered-bond framework
that provides legal certainty following an issuer’s insolvency,
minimum asset standards, and regulatory oversight, yet prohibits
Canadian banks from issuing covered bonds backed by government-
insured mortgages,” according to Moody’s Investors Service.  U.S. Changes Debated  “ Royal Bank of Canada (RY) ’s program, which is the sole program
that does not contain insured mortgages, will benefit from the
protections the bill affords because it should be eligible to
issue under the new law,” analysts Todd Swanson and Yehudah
Forster wrote in a May 7 report.  U.S. lawmakers have debated changes to covered-bond
regulations that would encourage their use by the country’s
banks for more than four years.  Bank of America Corp., which issued both euro- and dollar-
denominated debt, and Washington Mutual Inc. began tapping the
market in 2006 before ending sales the next year during the
financial crisis sparked by mortgage defaults.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  