-- Treasuries 10-Year Yield Close to Low Amid Europe Talks
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-05-21T21:18:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/treasury-yield-close-to-record-low-on-europe-debt-crisis.html
Treasury 10-year note yields traded
at almost record lows as German and French finance ministers met
to discuss strategy amid the Greek electoral impasse that has
worsened the  European debt crisis .  U.S. 30-year bond yields closed near the lowest since
December as the  Federal Reserve  purchased $1.8 billion of
longer-term Treasuries.  U.S. debt   fell earlier  on speculation
record-low yields may limit demand as the government auctions
$99 billion of coupon-bearing debt this week. The difference
between the yields on the 10-year and 30-year securities
narrowed to the least since January on reduced concern inflation
will erode the value of fixed-income assets.  “There continues to be demand for the long end,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The market has been able to improve on
the day. The persistent flight to quality demand will support
this week’s auctions.”  The 10-year  yield  rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 1.74 percent at 4:59 p.m. in  New York , Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices show. The 1.75 percent note due in May 2022 fell
5/32, or $1.56 per $1,000 face amount, to 100 2/32. The yield
added as much as five basis points earlier and reached a record
1.67 percent on Sept. 23.  The yield on the seven-year note fell one basis point to
1.17 percent. The yield declined to an all-time low of 1.135
percent on May 18.  Yield Levels  The 30-year bond  yield  was little changed at 2.81 percent.
The gap between 10- and 30- year yields narrowed to close at 107
basis points, the least since Jan. 19. It widened to a 2012 high
of 120 basis points on May 1.  Treasuries returned 1.5 percent in the month ending May 18,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show, reflecting demand
for safer assets. Investors tracking the MSCI All-Country World
Index of  stocks  lost 8.2 percent in the same period, including
reinvested dividends.  Yields on U.S. 10-year bonds may drop another 10 basis
points, or rise another 30 basis points, Pacific Investment
Management Co.’s Mohamed El-Erian in an interview on Bloomberg
Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken
Prewitt.  The 10-year yield is being anchored by the likelihood the
Fed will remain accommodative with rates and forward
communication, and “we may well get QE3,” El-Erian, he chief
executive officer of the world’s largest manager of bond funds
said. Yields will also remain low because of “sluggish growth”
in the U.S. and a flight to quality from Europe’s debt crisis,
he said.  Yield Range  “Until one of these three things change, people are going
to be surprised by how low 10-year interest rates are,” El
Erian said.  The U.S. will start this week’s sales with $35 billion of
two-year notes tomorrow, followed by the same amount of five-
year debt on May 23 and $29 billion of seven-year securities on
May 24.  Valuation measures show Treasuries are close to the most
expensive levels ever. The term premium, a model created by
economists at the Fed, touched negative 0.82 percent,
approaching the most expensive closing level ever of negative
0.83 percent reached May 17. A negative reading indicates
investors are willing to accept yields below what’s considered
fair value.  Volatility on May 18 was unchanged at 70.6 basis points,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index, which
measures Treasury price swings based on options. The gauge is
below the one-year average of 87.94 basis points.  Fed Fight  “There’s no real conviction in the market,” said  Michael Franzese , managing director and head of Treasury trading at
Wunderlich Securities Inc. in New York. “There are no shorts
left. The Fed is a big buyer so you can’t fight the Fed.” A
short is a bet the price of a security will drop.  Ten-year yields will increase to 2.48 percent by year-end,
according to the average forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
financial companies. It declined to a record 1.67 percent on
Sept. 23.  Should the yield drop to a new all-time low, it is likely
to meet resistance at around 1.54 percent, which would provide a
floor,  David Sneddon , head of technical analysis at Credit
Suisse Group AG in  London , wrote today in a note to clients.
Resistance refers to an area where sell orders may be clustered.  Bond traders are cutting expectations for U.S. inflation by
the most since December. If their bets are accurate, Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may have the scope for
additional stimulus.  Operation Twist  With six weeks left before the end of the Fed’s $400
billion swap of short-term debt for longer-term securities in a
program known as Operation Twist, assets that protect against
rising consumer prices and forwards measuring the outlook for
inflation show diminished concerns. Traders are pricing in a 55
percent chance that the central bank will begin new efforts to
spur economic growth, Bank of America Corp. says.  Speculation has risen that the central bank may need to add
to the $12.8 trillion already spent to avert a second recession
in three years. Jobs are growing more slowly than forecast and
Bernanke said April 25 that the Fed remains “prepared to do
more as needed.” For first time since it announced Operation
Twist in September, the Fed’s preferred  gauge  of measuring
traders’ inflation expectations is poised to fall for a second
straight month.  “It’s not only a weak economy, but as inflation comes
down, it could be another reason for the Fed to implement some
more stimulus,” said Gary Pollack, head of fixed-income trading
at Deutsche Bank AG’s Private Wealth Management unit in New
York, which manages $12 billion, in a May 14 interview.  Fed Buys  The Fed purchased Treasuries maturing from February 2036 to
November 2041 today as part of its $400 billion debt-swap
program, according to the Fed Bank of New York’s  website .  The  difference  in yields between 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, which represents expectations
for the rate of inflation over the life of the securities,
shrank to 2.04 percentage points on May 17, the narrowest since
Jan. 23. It was at 2.17 percent today.  Germany ’s Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  discussed the
17-nation currency at a meeting with his newly installed French
counterpart,  Pierre Moscovici , in Berlin as European Union
leaders prepare for a summit May 23.  Greece ’s efforts to combat
a recession are raising concern it will abandon the euro.  “We will engage all ideas constructively and find
solutions in order to strengthen sustainable growth,” Schaeuble
said after meeting Moscovici for the first time today in Berlin.
Moscovici, who became finance minister last week, said President
 Francois Hollande  wants “everything on the table,” including
joint euro-area bonds, at a meeting of European leaders two days
from now.  German  10-year bunds ,  Europe ’s benchmark government
securities, were little changed, with the yield at 1.43 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  