-- Reliance Industries Said to Seek $1 Billion, Five-Year Loan
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2012-05-21T10:06:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/reliance-industries-said-to-approach-banks-seeking-1-billion.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , owner of
the world’s largest oil-refining complex, approached banks
seeking a five-year loan of about $1 billion, according to three
people familiar with the matter.  The Mumbai-based company, controlled by billionaire  Mukesh Ambani , has asked banks to respond with proposed term sheets by
May 30, the people said, asking not to be identified because the
details are private. Proceeds will be used for capital
expenditure, the people said.  Tushar Pania, a spokesman at Reliance Industries, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail and didn’t answer three calls
to his mobile phone seeking comment on the financing.  Reliance signed a 13-year loan equivalent to $2 billion
backed by credit insurer  Euler Hermes SA (ELE)  with nine banks, it
said earlier this month. That’s the largest such borrowing by
 India ’s biggest energy company since May 2007 as credit
investors’ confidence in the group surges, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The cost of insuring Reliance’s bonds for a year against
nonpayment using credit-default swaps tumbled 144 basis points
this year to 133.7 on May 18, according to data provider CMA,
which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Reliance is planning an $8 billion expansion of its
petrochemicals business, the most since completing its second
oil refinery in 2008. It reported that cash surpassed debt in an
 April 20  statement.  Banks preparing to commit about $100 million to the new $1
billion facility are considering offering Reliance pricing of
about mid-200 basis points more than the London interbank
offered rate, one of the people said today.  Reliance has a $1.5 billion loan that matures May 2016,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The facility, signed in
December 2010, pays a margin of as much as 200 basis points more
than Libor, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  