-- Resecuritized Debt Faces 4-Year Ratings Rotation in EU Deal
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-05-21T16:39:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/resecuritized-debt-faces-4-year-rotation-of-ratings-in-eu-deal.html
Companies that issue resecuritized
debt would have to change their credit-ratings provider at least
every four years under a deal among European Union governments
to spur competition and counter possible conflicts of interest,
an EU official said.  Investors would also be empowered to seek compensation for
losses caused by malpractice or gross negligence at ratings
companies, said the official, who isn’t authorized to be cited
by name.  Today’s deal is a “positive step that strengthens the
possibilities for more actors to enter the market and reduces
overreliance on ratings in the financial system,” Ole Sohn,
Denmark’s minister for business and growth, said in an e-mail,
without giving details on the accord by diplomats from the
bloc’s 27 nations.  The agreement would curtail proposals by  Michel Barnier ,
the EU’s financial services commissioner. He sought last year to
force businesses to switch ratings firms every three years, and
said that the rule should apply to all of a company’s debt
issuance.  Today’s deal limits the so-called rotation rule to
resecuritizations, such as collateralized debt obligations that
are repackaged and used to back another round of securitized
debt, the official said.  Barnier will continue to make the case “for having a
sufficient scope of rotation to ensure more competition,”
Stefaan de Rynck, the commissioner’s spokesman, said in an e-
mail.  Ratings Caliber  Barnier’s plans were criticized by ratings companies and
some governments which warned that the measure could reduce the
caliber of ratings, so harming investor confidence in EU firms
and making it more expensive for them to raise funds.  Diplomats backed part of Barnier’s proposals, including a
plan to hand greater oversight powers to the European Securities
and Markets Authority. Oversight of sovereign debt assessments
would also be increased, following criticism from governments
that downgrades have stoked the EU’s fiscal crisis.  The new rules mean that the EU is “reducing the risk of
conflicts of interest between a credit rating agency and its
clients and improving transparency around credit ratings,
pricing policies,” Sohn said.  EU Presidency  The final version of the draft law must be negotiated by
 Denmark , which holds the EU presidency until the end of June,
and by lawmakers in the European Parliament, before it can come
into effect.  Leonardo Domenici, the legislator guiding adoption of the
rules in the parliament, has said that Barnier’s rotation plans
are “excessively complex” and may need to be scrapped.  Domenici has called for the scope of the draft law to be
expanded in other areas, notably to include a ban on ratings of
sovereign debt that haven’t been requested by the government
issuing the securities.  The parliament is scheduled to adopt its negotiation
position on the legislation on June 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 