-- Triple Crown Bubble Makes for Sucker Wagers: David Papadopoulos
-- B y   D a v i d   P a p a d o p o u l o s
-- 2012-05-21T04:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/triple-crown-bubble-makes-for-sucker-wagers-david-papadopoulos.html
There’s something about a Triple
Crown bid that turns gamblers into suckers.  It must be the thirst to see the feat accomplished for the
first time since 1978 that overwhelms horseplayers, both novice
and veteran alike, when they get to the betting windows for the
 Belmont Stakes . They throw money blindly at the winner of the
 Kentucky Derby  and  Preakness Stakes  as if he were the next
coming of Secretariat.  This year will be no different. When I’ll Have Another
takes the track for the Belmont on June 9, he will be one of the
great speculative bubbles of the year in sports wagering.  Look at recent history.  Eleven horses have arrived at Elmont, New York, in  Long
Island  with a chance at sweeping the Triple Crown since Affirmed
pulled it off 34 years ago. The betting public made each one of
those 11 horses the favorite. On average, their odds were 4-5,
meaning bettors put up $5 for a chance to win $4.  None in the group had odds higher than 8-5. Three of the
horses, including the last two, went off at 1-4. (There’s a
saying, by the way, that we have at the track about 1-4
favorites and the chalk-eating weasels who bet on them: If you
already have the four, you don’t need the one.)  Their margin of defeat ranged from a dirty nose (Real Quiet
in 1998) to the length of the stretch (Big Brown in 2008).  Now compare these results to those from ordinary afternoons
at the racetrack. In the 18 days of racing since Belmont Park
opened this year in April, there have been 106 races where the
bettors’ first choice had odds ranging from 1-4 to 8-5,
according to data compiled by  Equibase Company .  70-1 Upset  The favorite won 47 of the 106 races. The longest losing
streak for the group in that span was six races.  The 0-for-11 drought (and 3-for-21 spell when extending the
search back to the 1950s) from Triple Crown aspirants speaks to
how over-bet this bunch was. Odds on most of these horses should
have been double, triple or quadruple what they were.  The sucker money they attracted from bettors created value
in the rest of the field, swelling the odds on some horses to
astronomical levels. In four of the past five failed Triple
Crown bids, the winner paid more than 25-1, including Sarava,
who hit the finish line at 70-1 in 2002.  I’d estimate that I’ll Have Another enters the starting
gate with odds right around the 4-5 average of his predecessors.
Fairer value to me would be at least the 3-1 odds he offered in
the  Preakness  (note that he was 15-1 in the Derby).  He’s proven himself a talented horse in wearing down
frontrunner Bodemeister to win the Derby and Preakness and he’s
got a temperament that’s conducive to navigating the added
distance in the 1 1/2-mile (2.4 kilometers)  Belmont .  Yet in falling in love with the attributes of the
conquering hero, bettors always forget just how difficult it is
to sweep the Triple Crown. Winning three races at three
different tracks and at three different distances over a five-
week span is a grueling test. Almost no trainer would even try
such a thing with an elite racehorse any other time of the year.  Root with your heart. Bet with your head.  You have three weeks to pick out the Triple Crown spoiler.  (David Papadopoulos, the team leader for Latin America
markets coverage at Bloomberg News, has been following
thoroughbred racing for more than two decades and was runner-up
in 2008 Eclipse Award voting for feature writing on the sport.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Papadopoulos in  New York  at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jay Beberman at 
 jbeberman@bloomberg.net  