-- Robin Gibb, Bee Gees Co-Founder With His Brothers, Dies at 62
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-05-21T00:26:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/robin-gibb-bee-gees-co-founder-with-his-brothers-dies-at-62.html
Robin Gibb, a founding member with
his brothers of the million-selling British pop group the Bee
Gees, has died. He was 62.  He died yesterday in  London  from complications of cancer
and intestinal surgery, according to the New York Times, citing
a family statement.  Gibb co-wrote many of the Bee Gees’ hits, from 1960s pop
songs such as “I’ve Gotta Get a Message to You” and
“Massachusetts” to 1970s disco tunes such as “Stayin’ Alive”
and “Night Fever.” His vibrato tones meshed with his twin
Maurice’s musical arrangements and their older brother Barry’s
falsetto.  The group became one of the most successful pop acts of all
time, selling more than 200 million albums, according to the
Rock and Roll Hall of Fame  website . Their contributions to
1977’s “Saturday Night Fever” propelled that movie soundtrack
to become the top-selling album ever, having sold more than 40
million disks, until  Michael Jackson ’s 1982 release of
“Thriller.”  The Bee Gees remain the only pop group to write, produce
and record six consecutive No. 1 hits, according to the Hall of
Fame, which inducted them in 1997.  Robin Hugh Gibb was born on Dec. 22, 1949, on the  Isle of
Man ,  England , and grew up in the northern city of Manchester
where the brothers began to sing in a local cinema.  Move to Australia  They moved to Queensland,  Australia , in 1958. The brothers
started singing to boost their meager family income and were
named by disc jockey  Bill Gates  before having a hit with
“Spicks and Specks.” They returned to Britain where their
single “ New York  Mining Disaster 1941” started a run of
success.  Robin left the band briefly and had a solo single, “Saved
by the Bell,” before they reunited for “Lonely Days,” which
was a U.S. No. 3 record in 1970. The band’s most successful
period started in 1975 with “Jive Talkin’” and “You Should Be
Dancing.”  Their youngest sibling, Andy, who was also a singer, died
at the age of 30 in 1988 of a heart condition. Maurice died at
age 53 in 2003 of complications following a blocked intestine.  Robin Gibb was also inducted into the Songwriters Hall of
Fame and made a Commander of the Order of the British Empire, a
U.K. honor directly below a knighthood.  In August 2010, he suffered abdominal pain and needed
surgery for a blocked intestine, the same condition that Maurice
suffered from. Robin had an inflamed colon, later diagnosed as
cancer, and in November 2011, his family said that it had spread
to his liver and he was having chemotherapy.  More Surgery  “It’s taken a toll,” Gibb told the Mail on Sunday in
January, “but the strange thing is that I’ve never felt
seriously ill.”  He was back in the hospital in March for more surgery,
three weeks after being quoted by the Sunday Mirror saying he
was “in remission” from cancer.  In late 2011, Gibb joined with his son, Robin-John, to
compose a classical score for “The Titanic Requiem” being
recorded by the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra. The composition
marked the 100th anniversary of the sinking of the liner with
the loss of 1,500 lives. Robin Gibb missed the premier of the
work in London on April 10, while battling pneumonia, the
Telegraph  said .  As a solo artist, he released many charity records
including “Islands in the Stream” in 2009 for Comic Relief and
“I’ve Gotta Get a Message to You” with The Soldiers in 2011.  Gibb also gained attention for his open marriage to his
second wife, Dwina, an artist interested in druidry; his
friendship with  Tony Blair , who stayed at Gibb’s Miami home; and
his outspoken support of teetotalism and veganism.  Gibb and Dwina had one son, Robin-John. He had two
children, Melissa and Spencer, with his first wife, the former
Molly Hullis. He lived in Thame, Oxfordshire, England.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Beech in London at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  