-- Romania Plans Bond Abroad as Leu-Debt Sales Shrink
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-05-21T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/romania-plans-third-quarter-bond-abroad-as-leu-debt-sales-shrink.html
Romania  plans to sell international
bonds in the third quarter and scale back domestic debt issuance
after a record first three months as speculation  Greece  will
exit the euro roils markets, a Finance Ministry official said.  The eastern European nation, which raised a record 26
billion lei ($7.5 billion) at home in the January-March period,
retains plans to sell as much as 2.5 billion euros ($3.2
billion) of bonds on global markets this year, depending on
market conditions, Deputy Finance Minister Cristian Sporis said.  “We want to be a constant issuer on the international
markets,” Sporis said in a May 19 interview in  London . “We
said we’ll issue 2.5 billion euros this year so we’ll try to
issue that amount.”  First-quarter Treasury-bond and bill sales rose more than
50 percent from a year earlier as wage cuts and a tax increase
aimed at trimming the  budget deficit  bolstered investors’
optimism toward the European Union’s second-poorest member.
Romania, which exited a 20 billion-euro bailout led by the
 International Monetary Fund  in 2011 after its deepest recession
on record, has also raised $2.25 billion abroad this year.  After reaching a year low of 4.4625 percent on April 23,
the yield on Romania’s dollar bond due 2015 has jumped to 5.119
percent as investors sell emerging-market assets amid reports
Greece may return to the drachma. The cost of insuring
government debt against non-payment for five years using credit-
default swaps has risen to 431 basis points from a 2012 low of
295 basis points on March 14. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  Leu Sinks  The leu has lost 2.6 percent against the euro since
January, making it the worst performer among eastern European
and African currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Romania won’t be forced to sell bonds abroad as it has a
cushion of about 4 billion euros and is in line for a 1 billion-
euro backstop from the  World Bank , pending approval at a June
meeting of the Washington-based lender, Sporis said.  “We have a buffer and we’re not caught in a corner to
issue at any cost, unlike some countries,” he said. The World
Bank loan “will be at our disposal any time we want to draw on
it, for which we will be paying a commitment fee.”  Romania also has a two-year 5 billion-euro precautionary
agreement from the IMF and the EU, which was agreed on last year
after the bailout expired.  Domestically, Sporis said Romania will sell less debt after
frontloading this year’s plan and will continue offering
treasuries with maturities of as long as 15 years.  “We’ll reduce our debt issuance,” he said. “We’re
sticking to our plan to lengthen the maturities because we want
to avoid repayment peaks in the next three to four years. If we
can’t find enough interest on the local market, we can tap the
foreign markets if the opportunity arises.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  