-- Romney Is About to Make Bush’s Health-Care Blunder
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-05-21T23:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/romney-about-to-make-bush-s-health-care-blunder.html
Mitt Romney , so long bedeviled
by the politics of health care, may be about to make
another serious mistake.  He is on the verge of spelling out a plan to replace
President  Barack Obama ’s health plan. Romney’s advisers,
both inside and outside the formal campaign, want the main
component of his alternative to be a change in the tax
code’s treatment of health care. But there are two versions
on the table, and Romney is leaning toward the one that
would offer much less help to the uninsured.  For decades, people have paid taxes on their wages but
not on their health benefits. This policy gives people an
incentive to get health insurance through their employers,
rather than cashing out the benefits and buying insurance
themselves. This reliance on employers, according to many
analysts, is one reason health costs have grown so fast:
People are less cost-conscious when they are paying for
services indirectly. Those who don’t have access to
employer-provided coverage, meanwhile, are left out in the
cold by current policy.  In 2007,  George W. Bush ’s administration proposed to
start treating individually purchased and employer-provided
coverage the same. People who got insurance either way
would get a “standard deduction” of $15,000 off their
taxable income -- and they would get the same deduction
whether they bought cheap or expensive insurance, restoring
the incentive to economize. Romney is considering reviving
Bush’s idea.  Credit Versus Deduction  Like today’s tax break for employer coverage, the
standard deduction would be most valuable to people in the
highest tax brackets. The uninsured typically aren’t in
those brackets. As a result, Bush’s proposal would have
done little to increase rates of insurance coverage. At the
high end of  estimates , 9 million additional people would
have gotten coverage. (About 50 million Americans lack
insurance.)  That’s why other Republican health proposals have
offered a tax credit instead of a deduction. A credit is
worth the same amount of money in all tax brackets. When
Senator  John McCain  ran for president, he proposed a $5,000
tax-credit plan for families. Representative  Paul Ryan  and
Senator  Tom Coburn  have also introduced tax-credit plans.
Compared with a deduction, a credit would increase the
number of people with insurance much more for the same
amount of money.  The Romneyites are reverting to the Bush proposal for
several reasons. They worry that creating a new credit will
complicate the tax code when Romney has called for
simplifying it. But a credit is no more complicated than a
deduction -- and either would do less to distort people’s
economic decisions than the current policy.  They worry, too, that conservatives will balk at the
tax credit. It’s true that many conservatives have
complained about the proliferation of such credits. But
most understand that it would be a step toward their ideals
in health care. Most of the health-care wonks to whom
conservatives listen favor tax credits.  John Goodman , the
president of the National Center for Policy Analysis, and
James Capretta of the Ethics and Public Policy Center have
both been advocates. So have Sally Pipes of the Pacific
Research Institute and Grace-Marie Turner of the Galen
Institute, both of whom have criticized Romney over his
health-care record in  Massachusetts .  What Conservatives Want  The Romneyites’ fear suggests that they don’t have a
strong grasp of what conservatives actually think. Most
conservatives consider Ryan and Coburn champions of their
cause on health care as on other issues. A lot of
conservatives have complained about McCain over the years,
but not on this issue.  Conservatives are, if anything, more likely to
criticize Romney if he comes out for the deduction, because
it’s so underwhelming. Since a deduction would leave so
many people still  unable to get insurance  on their own, it
would also force governments to spend more money on pools
for high-risk patients. That’s another reason for
conservatives -- and everyone else -- to prefer a credit.  The politics of the issue have changed since Bush and
McCain made their proposals, and in a way that strengthens
the case for a credit over a deduction. The passage of
Obama’s health-care plan means that millions of Americans
who now lack insurance will get it.  If Romney comes out for replacing Obama’s plan with a
tax deduction, he will be attacked for “taking away” that
future coverage. A tax credit, on the other hand, could
cover roughly the same number of people. ( Here ’s a low-end
estimate.)  Romney should opt for boldness in covering the
uninsured. At the same time, he ought to be cautious about
disrupting people’s existing health-care arrangements.
That’s the real political vulnerability of both the
deduction and the credit: Either one would cause healthy
people to leave large company plans for the individual
market and thus cause those companies to raise premiums for
those left behind.  But there’s a ready solution to this problem: For the
time being, let people use the credit in the individual
market only if they lack access to a company plan.  A deduction would iron out a kink in the  tax code . A
credit would give the conservative vision of health-care
reform a chance. That’s why this decision, which may seem
at first glance trivial, is anything but -- and why it will
matter if the Romney campaign gets it wrong.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
senior editor at National Review. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  shareholder revolts 
and  advice for Greek voters ;  Edward Glaeser  on the  meaning
of the latest job numbers ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on the  TSA and
underwear bombers ; William Pesek on  Japan’s asset bubble ;
Meghan L. O’Sullivan on  Israel’s natural-gas bonanza ;  Mark
Taylor  on  the future of online education .  To contact the author of this column:
 Ramesh Ponnuru  at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  