-- Rubicon Hedge Fund Sues Ex-Traders at ‘War’ to Control Firm
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-05-22T00:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/rubicon-hedge-fund-sues-ex-traders-at-war-to-control-firm-1-.html
Rubicon Fund Management LLP said two
former traders tried to overthrow the hedge fund’s management
after its founder was badly injured in a horse-riding accident,
according to a U.K. lawsuit.  Rubicon is seeking as much as 105 million pounds ($166
million) from Timothy Attias and Santiago Alarco, who had been
interim co-chief investment officers before leaving to set up
their own company in 2011. Their conduct and subsequent
departure led investors to take more than $1 billion out of
Rubicon’s master fund, the company said.  Attias and Alarco temporarily took control of Rubicon’s
master fund after Rubicon founder and Chief Executive Officer
Paul Brewer fell from a horse in August 2009, the company’s
lawyer Paul Downes said yesterday on the first day of trial in
 London . Attias was “incandescent with rage” when he realized
Brewer would return to work instead of selling his stake to the
pair, as they had discussed.  “We’re at total war with these guys,” Attias told Alarco,
according to a phone call described in court documents. Attias
wrote in an e-mail to Alarco: “Nothing will drive these idiots
out quicker than if they feel everyone around them has lost
respect for them.”  Attias and Alarco founded SATA Asset Management Ltd. and
SATA Partners LLP in 2011.  Taking Clients  They are accused of soliciting Rubicon’s clients, leading
the fund’s largest investor to withdraw its money. Catherine Cripps, who previously worked for Zurich-based  GAM Holding AG (GAM) ,
and Robert Blaxland, Rubicon’s former head of  investor
relations , are also named as defendants in the suit. GAM was one
of Rubicon’s biggest investors in 2010, Downes said.  On March 1, 2011, around the time Attias was negotiating
his departure, Rubicon “suffered catastrophic redemptions of
approximately $486 million,” including $295.9 million from GAM,
according to court documents.  As a result of Attias and Alarco’s actions, Rubicon said
its assets under management fell from $1.6 billion at the end of
December 2010 to about $290 million in July 2011, before
recovering to $427 million by the end of that year. The losses
“set Rubicon back by about four years.”  BlackRock, Societe Generale  Potential investors in SATA in 2011 included GAM,  BlackRock
Inc. (BLK)  and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, according to a list compiled by
Cripps, lawyers for Rubicon said in documents prepared for
trial. Alarco and Attias met with Soros Fund Management LLC and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to discuss seed money for the new fund,
Rubicon said.  Larissa Alghisi, a spokeswoman for GAM said the company
wouldn’t comment because it isn’t involved in the trial.  Court filings by Rubicon show the dispute escalated into a
personal fight. Attias and Alarco secretly listened in on a 2010
phone-call in which Brewer, discussing his return, told a
colleague: “Revenge is a dish best served cold.”  Attias and the other defendants are scheduled to begin
their defense tomorrow. Alan Watts, a lawyer representing Attias
and Alarco, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail asking for
comment.  The case is: Rubicon Fund Management LLP v. Timothy Levy
Attias,  High Court  of Justice,  Chancery Division , HC11C02751.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  