-- Russia Unemployment Falls to Lowest Since 2008, Lifts Demand
-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 2012-05-21T16:25:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/russia-unemployment-falls-to-lowest-since-2008-lifts-demand-1-.html
Russia ’s unemployment rate plunged
last month to match the lowest level since the global financial
crisis roiled the economy in 2008 as companies raised spending
to meet domestic demand.  The jobless rate dropped to 5.8 percent, the lowest since
August 2008, from 6.5 percent in March, the Federal Statistics
Service in Moscow said in an e-mailed report today. The median
estimate of 13 economists in a Bloomberg survey was 6.4 percent.
Fixed-capital investment jumped 7.8 percent from a year earlier,
beating the 6.3 percent forecast.  President  Vladimir Putin  needs a stronger labor market to
sustain  consumer spending  and balance shrinking sales to
Russia’s biggest trading partners, the European Union and  China .
Putin, who was inaugurated for his third term in the Kremlin on
May 7, pledged to raise salaries and pensions for the military
in the run-up to the March 4 presidential election.  “Continuing double-digit growth in real wages and low
unemployment probably assumes that consumers’ outlook remain
relatively secured,” Dmitry Polevoy, chief economist for Russia
at  ING Groep NV (INGA)  in Moscow, said in an e-mailed note.  The  Micex Index (VTBMICX)  of 30 stocks extended gains after the
release and closed 2 percent higher at 1,298.00 in Moscow. The
ruble was little changed against the dollar at 31.1725.  Wages, Retail  Rising salaries are helping companies such as OAO Magnit,
Russia’s biggest food retailer by market value, which last week
said net retail revenue surged 28 in April from a year earlier.  Real  wages  grew 10.4 percent last month from the same month
of 2011 after a downwardly revised 9 percent increase in March,
while retail sales grew 6.4 percent, the service said.
Economists  forecast  an 11 percent advance in wages and a 7
percent increase in retail sales, according to the median
estimates of two Bloomberg News surveys. Real disposable incomes
grew 2.1 percent.  An increase in  government spending  on salaries of state
employees such as the military and the police is helping spur
wage growth and domestic demand,  Julia Tsepliaeva , head of
research at  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  in Moscow, said in an e-mailed note.
Retail sales will probably accelerate in the coming months on
stronger incomes, she said.  Shrinking unemployment “promises inflation acceleration
rather than output rise as final demand for domestic goods
remains weak,” said  Alexander Morozov , chief economist at HSBC
in Moscow.  The central bank refrained from cutting  interest rates  for
a fifth month in May, keeping the refinancing rate at 8 percent
as it seeks to bring inflation in 2012 below last year’s record-
low 6.1 percent. Bank Rossii targets holding inflation to
between 5 percent and 6 percent this year and 4.5 percent and
5.5 percent in 2013.  ‘Drivers of Growth’  Job gains and inflation at the lowest rate on record at 3.6
percent are bolstering purchasing power and helping shelter the
economy from a slowdown in  Europe . The  economy  grew 4.9 percent
in the first quarter, beating economist forecasts and expanding
at the fastest pace since the three months ended September 2011.  “The drivers of economic-growth are broadening, with the
emphasis shifting from external sector to domestic sectors,”
Vladimir Pantyushin,  Barclays Capital (JNK) ’s chief economist for
Russia, said by phone. “The strength of domestic demand in
Russia makes it less susceptible to external weaknesses.”  Capital investment rebounded in April from the slowest pace
in 10 months in March, beating economist  estimates .  “Empirical evidence suggests that it should be attributed
to implementation of state projects and projects of state
monopolies, while the private sector does not hurry up to boost
its investment activity,” Morozov said.  Still, investment growth is likely to slow in the second
quarter on “strictly negative” base effect, Tsepliaeva said.  Industrial output increased 1.3 percent in April, the
weakest pace since it started rising in November 2009, the
statistics service said on May 17. The country’s new car and
light commercial vehicle sales have stagnated, growing 14
percent in April and 13 percent in March, down from monthly
increases of as much as 80 percent last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  