-- Rust-Belt Babushkas Live Alone as Fewer Remain to Marry
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e   a n d   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 2012-05-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/rust-belt-babushkas-live-alone-as-fewer-remain-to-marry.html
Since Allison Sturm’s husband died 10
years ago, her friends and children visit at her apartment in
Cincinnati. She says she still feels alone in the city.  “I don’t like being lonely,” Sturm, 79, said in an
interview while shopping at a pharmacy. “I can’t find anything
better than what I’ve got.”  Rust Belt residents like Sturm are more prone than ever to
live alone thanks to an exodus of families that leaves behind
widows and widowers and young singles. Urban areas on the east
and west coasts including Atlanta, Seattle and Washington, D.C.,
have long drawn flocks of careerist singles. Now, 10 of the 25
cities with the highest percentage of people living solo are
Midwestern industrial enclaves including Cincinnati, Pittsburgh
and  St. Louis , according to 2010 Census data.  That may create a burden. As Americans live longer, the
elderly require more expensive medical help and benefits from a
younger population. It also reflects insecurity: Younger people
are delaying marriage and child-rearing until the economy
provides a sounder footing for their careers.  Metropolitan areas with higher percentages of younger and
more skilled and educated single households will have a
substantial advantage,  Richard Florida , director of the Martin
Prosperity Institute at the  University of Toronto , said in an e-
mail. Older populations challenge economic development, he said.  Queen City  The percentage of U.S. households that consist of one
person has almost quadrupled since 1940, rising to about 27
percent from about 8 percent. In the Midwest, the numbers
reflect the manufacturing collapse of the 1980s, which led to a
higher-than-average percentage of elderly residents and a
generation of depressed housing prices.  Atlanta and  Washington  were tied at 44 percent for the
highest percentage of one-person households. Cincinnati, known
as the Queen City, ranked third in the nation with 43.4 percent
of its 133,420 households consisting of single people, according
to Census data.  That’s probably the result of families leaving for suburbs
starting in the 1970s, combined with an influx of young
professionals to the central city, where University of
Cincinnati and Xavier University students also live, said
Jeffrey Timberlake, an associate sociology professor at the
former.  Urban Pioneers  “Single people are almost like the pioneers moving back
into what were starting to become abandoned central cities,”
Timberlake said in a telephone interview.  Cincinnati-based companies, including  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) ,
the world’s largest consumer-products maker, and  Kroger Co. (KR) , the
largest U.S. grocery chain, are hiring young people who
gravitate to the trendy Hyde Park area and new downtown
apartments, said Lee Robinson, owner of CincyRents and Robinson
Sotheby’s International Realty.  The city’s rental market is “hot as a firecracker,” with
less than a 2 percent vacancy rate among the 1,500 properties
that CincyRents leases or manages, Robinson said in a telephone
interview.  Singles in their 20s and 30s who come to Mount Adams
Pavilion in Cincinnati, a bar with patios featuring skyline
views, are focused on their careers. Fewer marry out of high
school or college these days, Danny Krzynowek, the general
manager, said in an interview.  “Their jobs come first,” said Krzynowek, 37. He said he
is single because of the hours he works.  Pete McKee, 26, said he’s had little time for dating
because he’s been working six-day weeks of as long as 60 hours
as a mechanical engineer in Cincinnati.  Fish Dinner  “It’s kind of the boat I’m in right now,” McKee said in
an interview over a Kentucky Bourbon Barrel Ale and a cod dinner
at a pub in the city’s Hyde Park Square, a magnet for young
professionals in a neighborhood where about 66 percents of
households are single and the average age is 34.  Part of what is driving the  Rust Belt ’s increase in single
households is the decline in population as factories closed,
Timberlake said. In 1900, Cincinnati was the nation’s 10th
largest city, with a population of about 326,000. In 2010, it
was the 62nd largest, with about 297,000.  Pittsburgh, former capital of the nation’s steel industry,
has seen its population drop by more than half to about 306,000
since 1950, according to the 2010 Census. The government said
41.7 percent of households consist of one person, the sixth-
highest rate in the nation.  Clearing Out  “The Rust Belt exodus of the 1980s robbed Pittsburgh of a
generation of family households,” Jim Russell, a geographer who
studies the relationship between migration and economic
development, said in an e-mail. “Parents and would-be parents
left in large numbers. Those who stayed aged in place.”  Pennsylvania ranked 38th among states and the  District of
Columbia  in job growth in the Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of
States from the first quarter of 1995 through the fourth quarter
of last year, the most recent data available. Only  Michigan 
fared worse than  Ohio .  Now, about one in eight Pittsburgh households is occupied
by a single elderly person, the fifth-highest among U.S. cities.
Russell said a significant share of the single households
consist of elderly women, or what he calls “Rust-Belt
babushkas.”  In Akron, Ohio, which ranked 35th among U.S. cities in 2010
with 34.8 percent single-person households, 78-year-old Doris
Colbert said she can’t afford to move out of her apartment. Even
so, Colbert said prefers to live alone instead of with one of
her children.  “I feel like I’m a fifth wheel,” Colbert said in an
interview. “Besides, would you like my old fogy friends coming
around?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frank Bass in  New York  at 
 fbass1@bloomberg.net 
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  