-- Ryanair Says Profit to Fall as Fuel Prices Outpace Fares
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 2012-05-21T08:21:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/ryanair-boosts-annual-earnings-25-predicts-decline-this-year.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) ,  Europe ’s
biggest discount airline, predicted earnings will fall this year
as a slowing European economy prevents it from increasing fares
sufficiently to make up for surging jet-fuel costs.  Net income rose 25 percent to 502.6 million euros ($643
million) in the 12 months to March 31, Ryanair said today in a
statement. That figure may slip to between 400 million euros and
440 million euros this year, the Dublin-based company said.  Ryanair idled 80 aircraft last winter, curbing capacity and
helping to boost average fares 16 percent for the year as costs
rose 13 percent. The European slump mean it will be tougher to
increase prices enough this year to fully offset an anticipated
320 million-euro jump in the kerosene bill, it said.  “It’s going to be a more difficult ask in the coming 12
months as we see the recession biting across Europe,” Chief
Financial Officer Howard Millar said in an interview. “Spain is
a lot weaker,  Italy  is getting weak and you can’t expect to
raise fares forever when you have so much austerity.”  Shares Drop  Ryanair fell as much as 6.6 percent and was trading 5.1
percent lower at 3.82 euros as of 9:14 a.m. in  London .  The stock has gained 5.3 percent this year, valuing the
company at 5.5 billion euros. That’s the third-best performance
on the seven-member Bloomberg EMEA Airlines Index, trailing the
23 percent advance of  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) , Europe’s second biggest
discount airline, while outperforming network carriers  Air
France-KLM Group (AF) ,  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG) 
and  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , which have all declined.  The Irish company forecast earnings for last year of 480
million euros on Jan. 30 and analysts had expected a figure of
487 million euros, according to the average of 17 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Chief Executive Officer  Michael O’Leary  said on Bloomberg
Television that he’s “cautious” on the outlook for the current
year, though less efficient carriers are likely to suffer more
and the slump could ultimately benefit Ryanair in the long term.  The fuel bill rose by 360 million euros last year and this
year’s jump will be felt mostly in the first half, leading to a
drop in first-quarter profit, Ryanair said in a statement.  The carrier said it’s “concerned” about next winter, for
which it has “zero yield visibility,” and will struggle to
repeat this year’s results as fares only partially offset the
fuel bill, with ticket prices likely to fall at new or growing
bases in Hungary,  Poland ,  Spain  and the U.K. provinces.  ‘Conservative’  Still, Ryanair’s earnings forecast at the start of the
fiscal year is often on the low side and later upgraded, said
 Joe Gill , an analyst at Bloxham Stockbrokers in Dublin.  “It’s almost always the same at this point if you look at
the last 10 years,” said Gill, who has a “buy” recommendation on
the stock. “Visibility is non-existent and they have a fixed
step up in fuel costs so they have a fairly conservative view.”  Annual revenue last year advanced 19 percent to 4.32
billion euros as customer numbers increased 5 percent to 76
million, Ryanair said, adding that passenger traffic should grow
by the same degree this fiscal year to about 79 million people.  While the carrier cut winter capacity for the first time
year-to-year, it took delivery of 25 more aircraft, opened six
new bases and added 330 routes during the 12 months. At least
200 further services will be added this year, Millar said.  Dividend Plan  Ryanair confirmed it will pay a second special dividend of
34 cents a share, or 483 million euros, due in November, after
awarding shareholders 500 million euros in 2010.  There are no plans to make a payment next year, though it’s
possible that a further dividend could follow in two years,
dependent on Ryanair’s aircraft-purchase commitments, O’Leary
said on Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown” with  Mark Barton .  Ryanair, which is targeting markets opened up by the
collapse of Barcelona-based Spanair SA and Hungarian national
carrier Malev Zrt, isn’t looking to acquire airlines which might
become available as governments reduce their stakes, he said.  “If you look at what they’re selling it’s rubbish,” the CEO
said. “There’s nothing out there, certainly not that we’d be
interested in buying.”  Ireland’s  Aer Lingus Group Plc (AERL) , which Ryanair had sought to
buy before being thwarted by regulators, is now most likely to
be purchased by a foreign bidder and broken up, he said.  Ryanair has had discussions with Airbus SAS and  Boeing Co. (BA) 
about adding aircraft but has no immediate requirement, O’Leary
added, with planes in any case likely to become available via
cancellations at other carriers if needed.  Any order for the C919 being developed by Commercial
Aircraft Corp. of  China , with which Ryanair has been
cooperating, would be “slightly longer term,” he said.  O’Leary said it’s possible Ryanair might agree to take a
“small minority stake” in London’s Stansted airport as part of a
bid group, though only in return for guarantees over fees. Owner
 BAA Ltd. (FER)  has been ordered by regulators to sell the site.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Jasper in London at 
 jasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  