-- TSA Wants Up to 75% of Flyers Shifted to Faster Screening
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-05-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/tsa-seeking-to-shift-up-to-75-of-flyers-to-precheck-system.html
The U.S.  Transportation Security
Administration  wants to speed screening for as many as three in
four travelers as it absorbs criticism for procedures that have
led to pat-downs of children, seniors and members of Congress.  The agency envisions expanding enrollment in its PreCheck
expedited-screening program beyond frequent flyers selected by
airlines, Associate Administrator Doug Hofsass said yesterday.
The agency would like to have 50 percent to 75 percent of the
flying public use PreCheck, with the rest going through
traditional, more intensive screening  lanes , Hofsass said.  It’s a more ambitious acceleration of expedited screening
than agency officials have previously disclosed.  “We’re going to have to get to the general population,”
Hofsass said at a meeting of the TSA’s Aviation Security
Advisory Committee at the agency’s headquarters in Arlington,
Virginia.  The effort is part of what TSA says is an effort to move
away from a “one-size-fits-all” approach to airport security
and stress intelligence-based methods. The 52,000-employee
agency, created after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, has been
the subject of recent congressional hearings into its equipment
purchases, hiring practices and confrontations with travelers at
checkpoints.  Last month, a checkpoint at Newark Liberty International
Airport had to be closed after a baby wasn’t screened.  Background Check  PreCheck members, who must be chosen by airlines and
approved by the TSA, provide personal information up front so a
background check can be completed before a flight.  If approved, those flyers get to go through separate queues
and keep their coats, shoes and belts on as they pass through a
screening machine. They can leave laptops and liquids in their
carry-on bags.  The TSA is working with “many, if not most” of the  500
largest U.S. corporations  to identify employees who should be
eligible for PreCheck, Administrator  John Pistole  told the
advisory committee. The agency is also looking to expand it
within the military, among federal judges and possibly members
of Congress, he said.  “The more we know about a traveler, the better a judgment
we can make,” Pistole said.  The PreCheck program, which began last year, now operates
with specific airlines at 15 U.S. airports, according to the
agency. The program recently screened its 1 millionth passenger,
Hofsass said. That compares with approximately 1.6 million who
fly in the U.S. each day, he said.  Still a Target  The agency will always incorporate random measures “to
prevent terrorists from gaming the system,” according to a TSA
fact sheet.  The TSA is well aware that the vast majority of the 6
billion people it has screened since 2001 aren’t a terrorist
threat, Pistole said. This month’s disclosure of an underwear-
bomb plot thwarted by Saudi Arabia intelligence officials serves
as a reminder that U.S. aviation remains a terrorist target, he
said.  “Unfortunately, terrorists haven’t gone away,” Pistole
said. “They’re still trying to design, construct and conceal
improvised explosive devices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  