-- Sequoia’s Moritz Steps Back From Management on Illness
-- B y   B r a d   S t o n e
-- 2012-05-21T15:15:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/sequoia-s-moritz-steps-back-from-management-on-illness.html
Michael Moritz, the venture capital
investor behind companies such as  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) 
and Yahoo! Inc., is stepping back from daily management at
 Sequoia Capital  after disclosing that he has a rare illness.  Moritz, 57, is relinquishing responsibilities including
regulatory compliance and recruiting, the  Menlo Park ,
California-based firm said today in a letter to investors. He
will remain involved in making new investments from current and
future funds, and mentoring startups.  “I have been diagnosed with a rare medical condition which
can be managed but is incurable,” Moritz wrote in the letter, a
copy of which was provided to Bloomberg Businessweek. He didn’t
specify the nature of his illness.  “I’ve been told that in the next five to 10 years the
quality of my life is quite likely to decline,” he wrote.
“Right now I feel fitter than ever and I hope that I’ll be one
of the lucky ones who can live a full life and defy the
statisticians. But there is no way of predicting this with
certainty and thus for me life has assumed a different meaning
and I am making some adjustments.”  Over the past two decades, the Welsh-born Moritz has been a
fixture in  California ’s Silicon Valley, first as a journalist
and author, and then as one of the most successful investors on
Menlo Park’s Sand Hill Road. In addition to backing such
Internet pioneers as Yahoo and Google, he sat on a number of
boards including Google’s from 1999 to 2007. In 1984, he authored
“The Little Kingdom: the Private Story of Apple Computer.”  “I’m going to keep the nature of my condition private, but
on a completely unrelated matter, if anyone can make my 57-year-
old back feel like it was when I was a teenager, they should
call,” Moritz said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brad Stone in  San Francisco  at 
 bstone12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Edelman at 
 ledelman3@bloomberg.net  