-- Shale Glut Means $1-a-Gallon Savings at the Pump
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n   a n d   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-05-22T14:59:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/shale-glut-means-1-a-gallon-savings-at-the-pump.html
Chad Porter wants to run his 18-
wheeler trucks on frozen natural gas along a highway that
crosses  Canada ’s Rocky mountains even before the world’s longest
chain of refueling stations gets built to keep them fueled.  The chief operating officer of oil services company Ferus
Inc. bought two vehicles to test liquefied natural gas and
reckons switching from diesel may cut 22 percent from his fuel
bill, or about $1 a gallon. At the moment, Calgary-based Ferus
uses mobile tankers to refuel his trucks, which cost about
C$100,000 ($99,000) more than conventional vehicles, adding
expense to a project that’s about saving money. A  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  project will make it easier to fill up.  Shell’s plan to spend $250 million on an LNG plant and a
string of filling stations is the biggest single investment yet
in making frozen gas a transport fuel, a shift advocated by
proponents of energy independence including billionaire investor
 T. Boone Pickens . Switching engines to run on LNG is becoming
economic because a glut of fuel from North America’s shale rocks
has made the U.S. the world’s largest natural-gas producer and
forced prices to record discounts versus crude oil.  “LNG holds great potential as a transport fuel,”  Mark Williams , Shell’s director for downstream, said in a speech this
month. “North America, for example, now has a century of gas
supplies at current consumption rates. So gas is likely to gain
market share in transportation.”  Special Coolers  Using LNG in vehicles has limitations, from fuel
evaporation to the special coolers needed at filling stations to
keep the gas at minus 162 degrees Celsius (minus 259
Fahrenheit), making it mostly suitable for long-haul trucks with
large gas tanks. U.S. truckers spent more than $135 billion on
fuel last year, according to American Trucking Association.  “We would take advantage of any infrastructure that gets
built,” Ferus’s Porter said in an interview from his office in
Calgary.  Shell agreed to work with filling-station owners Flying J
Inc. to offer LNG to trucks along the highway, from Fort
McMurray in  Alberta , the heart of Canada’s oil industry, to
 Vancouver  on the Pacific coast, more than 900 miles (1,600
kilometers) to the southwest. At today’s diesel prices, fuel for
each run on the route by a typical 33,000-pound, 60-foot truck
costs about C$550.  The roadway, which comes within about 235 miles of Mt.
Robson, the range’s highest peak at 12,972 feet, passes through
part of Canada’s oil and gas producing region, as well as the
mining and forestry operations of companies including  Teck
Resources Ltd. (TCK/B)   ‘See Opportunities’  “We see opportunities for a concept like this one in other
areas of the world as well,” said Jose-Alberto Lima, Shell’s
vice president for LNG and gas sales in Americas. He said Shell,
based in The Hague in the Netherlands, doesn’t expect a rebound
in  gas prices  anytime soon.  In addition to being cheaper, natural gas burned in trucks
emits as much as 25 percent less carbon dioxide, as well as
almost eliminating particulate matter and sulfur dioxide
produced by diesel-powered vehicles, according to the Calgary-
based Van Horne Institute. Using natural gas, a fuel where  North
America  is self-sufficient, would also cut demand for imported
crude oil.  Shell eventually plans to deploy LNG technology to power
trains, ships and mining industry engines. Gas overtook crude
oil to account for more than 50 percent of the company’s
production for the first time this year. It expects to expand
the use of LNG as a transport fuel beyond North America to
 Europe ,  China ,  Latin America  and  Australia .  Future Fuel  “Gas in our view will be the fuel of the future,” Shell
Chief Executive Officer  Peter Voser  told shareholders today. The
company has more than 40 trillion cubic feet of gas resources in
North America, about 12 percent of the continent’s total at the
end of 2010, based on data from  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of
World Energy.  The Anglo-Dutch company’s  Green Corridor  project in Canada
will make 300,000 tons of LNG a year. It plans to start
production at its first small-scale gas liquefaction plant at
 Jumping Pound  near the route’s halfway point next year.  “These trucks are more expensive than the traditional
diesel trucks today,” Shell’s Lima said. “You need to have
economies of scale to bring these costs down.”  Shell is  cooperating  with Vancouver-based  Westport
Innovations Inc. (WPT) , the maker of  cryogenic fuel tanks  and the only
currently available 15-liter gas-powered engine suitable for
heavy-duty trucks running on LNG.  Compressed Gas  The second Canadian maker of gas powered engines is  Cummins
Westport  Inc., which makes smaller 8.9 liter heavy-duty unit.
The Vancouver-based joint venture of U.S.’s  Cummins Inc. (CMI)  and
Westport has designed a motor able to run on either compressed
natural gas, CNG, or LNG.  CNG is used for light- and medium-duty vehicles, such as
buses and garbage trucks. LNG, which is using a cryogenic
technology to chill gas and reduce it to one-six-hundredth of
its original volume at low temperature, is offered mostly as a
fuel for heavy-duty vehicles.  CNG, which is stored at ambient temperature, requires tanks
with thicker walls to hold the pressure and provides less energy
per volume. Therefore, long-haul trucks can take more LNG on
board in lighter  chilled tanks  with less time required for
refueling per energy unit.  “Drivers have been very receptive to LNG trucks,
especially since they drive like diesel trucks,” said Cara
West, a spokeswoman at  Paccar  Inc., which designs and
manufactures trucks under Kenworth, Peterbilt and DAF nameplates
and where Ferus bought its vehicles. “Dealers are receiving
multiple inquiries from customers anxious to learn more about
LNG trucks.”  Market Share  Paccar currently equips some of its Kenworth and Peterbilt
models with LNG engines. The Washington state-based maker
expects the gas-powered-truck market share in North America to
expand to about 20 percent in the next several years, up from
about 6 percent now.  With natural gas fuel taxed about 20 Canadian cents less a
liter than diesel on equivalent basis, it takes less than five
years for a driver to return extra investment benefiting from
cheaper fuel, according to the Canadian Natural  Gas Vehicle
Alliance . Canada has more than  100 LNG  powered trucks almost
equally split between western and eastern parts of the country
operated by  Vedder Transport , a milk hauler in British Columbia,
and  Robert Transport , which operates in  Quebec  and is expanding
the fleet.  In January, President  Barack Obama  said tax breaks for
natural-gas powered trucks will help cut dependence on imported
oil in the world’s largest crude-consuming country. “We, it
turns out, are the  Saudi Arabia  of natural gas,” Obama said.
The U.S Senate and House have been reviewing the bill to boost
greater use of the gas.  Huge Resource  “The potential is there, and when you have this huge
resource in the U.S., and you’ve got almost 10 million barrels
per day imported being used for transportation fuels,” said
Theepan Jothilingam, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. At some
stage, the U.S. government “will need to give a tax break and
encourage both the technology and the execution of this
technology.”  Billionaire investor Pickens has been lobbying for
incentives to stimulate greater use of natural gas as a vehicle
fuel to replace imported oil. Pickens is the largest shareholder
of Clean Energy Fuels, a natural-gas supplier for bus and truck
fleets, which is building  America’s Natural Gas Highway  across
the U.S. to fuel long-haul trucks with LNG starting from the end
of this year.  About 30 percent of U.S. “classic trucks” can be
converted to run on LNG, which needs highly utilized vehicles
running lots of miles to pay back for the additional engine
costs by fueling it with cheaper LNG, said James Burns, Shell’s
general manager for LNG in Transport, Americas. “Emissions is a
key issue here as well both on local air emissions and green-
house gas emissions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  