-- Shutterfly Gains as Facebook Threat Fades: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   S a m a n t h a   Z e e
-- 2012-05-21T20:25:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/shutterfly-gains-as-facebook-threat-fades-san-francisco-mover.html
Shutterfly Inc. (SFLY)  rose the most since
April 11 on speculation that the company, which offers photo-
related products online, will face less competition from rivals
such as  Facebook Inc. (FB)  as they focus on mobile advertising.  Shutterfly, based in Redwood City, California, advanced
$1.56, or 6.6 percent, to close at $25.31 in  New York . The stock
has risen 11.2 percent this year.  “The correlation between Facebook and Shutterfly was a
negative one because people were concerned about Facebook
entering Shutterfly’s market, but now that doesn’t seem very
realistic to me,” Mitchell Bartlett, an analyst at Craig-Hallum
Capital Group LLC in Minneapolis, said in a telephone interview.  “Shutterfly is coming off previous lows and bouncing, and
I am still very interested,” he said. Bartlett has a buy rating
on Shutterfly, with a target price of $42 a share.  Shutterfly is focused on completing its $23.8 million April
purchase of  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) ’s online-photo business. The deal,
which will transfer the accounts of 75 million Kodak Gallery
users to Shutterfly, is scheduled to be complete July 2.  Kodak, the Rochester, New York-based photography company,
filed for bankruptcy protection in January.  Kodak Gallery users have until May 28 to choose whether to
move to Shutterfly or opt out. The services allow users to
upload photos, organize galleries, and share photos for free,
while charging users to order prints, DVDs, photobooks and other
products.  Shutterfly Rivals  Demand for such services has declined as people share
photos online through Facebook and other social networks. While
Shutterfly eliminates a competitor with the Kodak acquisition,
it still faces smaller rivals such as Snapfish,  American
Greetings Corp. (AM)  and  Vistaprint NV. (VPRT)   Facebook, the social networking site that raised $16
billion in an initial public offering on May 18, is seeking to
draw more marketers to boost sales. The company, the biggest
provider of online display ads in the U.S., wants to attract
more users to its site through mobile phones instead of the Web.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is also said to be expanding its iCloud services
to include more photo sharing features, “which could be a
negative” for Shutterfly, Bartlett said. ‘The focus is also on
e-commerce and advertising.”  Shutterfly is well-placed to face its competitors after it
“had a very strong first quarter,” Bartlett said. Also, “the
guidance has been conservatively set for the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samantha Zee in  San Francisco  at 
 szee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 Jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  