-- Spain Bank Loan Audit Key to Stemming Bond Rout: Euro Credit
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-05-21T08:41:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/spain-bank-loan-audit-key-to-stemming-bond-rout-euro-credit.html
Spain ’s ability to restore investor
willingness to buy its bonds hinges on how credibly the nation
audits the value of the deteriorating loans of its banks.  The government plans today to appoint two auditors to
evaluate the loans of the nation’s banks, which have been
pummeled by mounting property losses. The yield on 10-year
Spanish debt has jumped 140 basis points since March 1 to 6.26
percent on investor concern that potential bank losses may force
the government to fork over billions of euros in support.  “If the independent firms report something similar to what
the banks are saying about their loan books, the market would
simply not believe them,” said Georg Grodzki, who helps oversee
$515 billion at Legal & General Investment Management in  London .
Should the audit show big losses, questions are sure to emerge
over “how the government can  afford  to plug the hole in the
banking system’s balance sheet,” he said.  The audit is part of Spain’s fourth attempt in three years
to clean up its lenders, which are poised to set aside about 30
billion euros ($38 billion) against real estate loans on top of
the 53.8 billion euros of charges in February. The proposal
announced May 11 didn’t dissuade Moody’s Investors Service from
downgrading 16 Spanish banks last week and Spain raised more
questions about credibility on May 18 when it revised its 2011
deficit, a month after the European Commission had signed off on
the original numbers.  ‘Complete Freedom’  Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said today in  Madrid  that
the auditors will have “complete freedom” to carry out the
review and that the existing provision rules are “sufficient.”  While  analysts  at Exane BNP Paribas and Nomura Holdings
Inc. welcome the cleanup, they say banks must recognize greater
losses on loans to individuals and non-real estate companies in
a nation where joblessness exceeds 24 percent and the economy is
forecast by the European Commission to contract in 2012 and
2013.  The possibility that Spain, with the revised deficit of 8.9
percent of gross domestic product last year, will need to fund
bank bailouts has driven the country’s borrowing costs close to
the levels that forced  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to seek
bailouts. Spanish bonds have fallen 3.6 percent this year, the
only decliner in the 17-nation euro region apart from Greece.  “We are still some distance away from Spanish banks
becoming investable again,” Grodzki said in a phone interview.
“The problem is the gulf between investors’ assumption about
the writedown and equity needs of Spanish banks.”  Banks Slump  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , the country’s biggest lender, has
slipped 19 percent this year, while Bankia Group, which was
nationalized by the government this month, has shed 47 percent.
 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  dropped  25 percent, leaving
the benchmark IBEX 35 stock index down 23 percent this year, the
biggest decline among major European indexes.  A four-year property slump has driven up loan defaults and
heightened investor suspicions that firms’ balance sheets don’t
fully reflect the scale of potential losses. The nation’s
lenders carry 184 billion euros of what the Bank of Spain terms
“problematic” real estate-linked assets. The ratio of bad
loans to total lending rose to 8.37 percent in March from less
than 1 percent in 2007.  Analysts at HSBC Holdings Plc said in a May 16 report that
Spanish banks may have a 97 billion-euro capital shortfall in
2013, assuming the commercial real estate market worsens and
credit to households and companies deteriorates.  EU Pressure  “It is unclear who will pay and how the bill will be paid
and, depending on how big the losses might be and how the
cleanup is implemented, the sovereign risk might remain at
relatively high levels creating a circular problem for the
system,” said Santiago Lopez, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas
in Madrid, in a May 16 report.  European Union officials last week tried to convince De
Guindos to take an International Monetary Fund credit line to
help shore up the nation’s lenders, Madrid-based ABC newspaper
reported yesterday.  Loan-book audits can help, though it may be hard to
convince investors they’re truly independent, Grodzki said.  “The fact that the auditors are hired and paid for by the
government may raise suspicions, but I would give them the
benefit of the doubt for now and hope they won’t try to prove
the number, which the government wants to hear,” he said.
“Spain is walking a tightrope.”  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  was contracted by Ireland’s central bank in
January 2011 to audit the balance sheet of six banks. Its role
was key in establishing a base of independent information that
helped reassure investors, said  Dermot O’Leary , an economist at
 Goodbody Stockbrokers  in Dublin.  ‘Deja-Vu’  New York-based BlackRock has been picked by government
agencies in Greece,  Germany ,  Switzerland  and  Sweden  since 2008
to value hard-to-value debt portfolios.  “For us there’s a real sense of deja-vu with what’s going
on in Spain,” said O’Leary in a phone interview. “In the Irish
experience, it wasn’t until there was an external analysis that
the market starting giving the benefit of the doubt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  