-- Spain Hires Oliver Wyman, Roland Berger to Stress Test Banks
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2012-05-21T15:09:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/spain-hires-oliver-wyman-roland-berger-to-stress-test-banks.html
Spain  hired Oliver Wyman Ltd. and
 Roland Berger  Strategy Consultants to carry out a  stress test  on
the nation’s lenders and plans to contract three auditing
companies to do an additional analysis of banks’ loans.  The  stress-test  results will be published in the second
half of June, the Madrid-based  Economy Ministry  said in an e-
mailed statement today. By the end of May, three auditing firms
will be hired to assess how each bank is accounting for asset
deterioration, with results due in the coming months.  The exercise is part of Spain’s fourth attempt in three
years to clean up its lenders, which have about 184 billion
euros ($235 billion) of what the Bank of Spain calls
“problematic” real estate-linked assets. Concerns about banks’
losses infecting public finances helped push the country’s 10-
year bond yield to as high as 6.5 percent last week.  “These firms are more independent and have less conflicts
in Spain,” said Inigo Lecubarri, who helps manage about $300
million at Abaco Financials Fund in  London . “They are competent
people to do this job.”  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  was contracted by Ireland’s central bank in
January 2011 to audit the balance sheet of six banks and also
was chosen by government agencies in  Greece , Germany,
Switzerland and Sweden to value hard-to-value portfolios.  The Financial Times was among newspapers that had reported
that BlackRock had been picked for the valuation work in Spain.
Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said in an interview last month
that BlackRock would face conflicts of interest because it would
be looking for investment opportunities at the same time.  “BlackRock is conflicted -- these guys are going to be
looking to buy assets in Spain,” said Lecubarri.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  