-- Strauss-Kahn Faces French Inquiry Over Alleged 2010 Rape
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-05-21T13:25:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/strauss-kahn-faces-french-inquiry-over-alleged-2010-rape.html
Dominique Strauss-Kahn , the former
head of the  International Monetary Fund , faces a preliminary
inquiry from prosecutors in France over allegations he and other
men raped a prostitute in  Washington  in December 2010.  The probe stems from evidence gathered during an
investigation by judges in Lille of prostitutes being sent to
the U.S., which resulted in charges against Strauss-Kahn in
March, the prosecution said today in an e-mailed statement.  The investigating judges referred to prosecutors details of
“events which took place in Washington, between Dec. 15 and 18,
2010, which they felt could be qualified as group rape,”
according to the statement.  Strauss-Kahn, 63, was charged with procurement in the
Northern French city in the so-called Carlton affair, named for
the local hotel where the prostitution investigation began. The
rape probe goes beyond allegations he actively participated in
the prostitution ring by organizing sex parties. The charge
could result in a sentence of as long as 20 years in prison and
3 million euros ($3.8 million) in fines under French law.  The opening of the inquiry based on the woman’s statements
to investigators, rather than a formal complaint of rape,
“shows the unbelievable determination” of the prosecutors and
is a sign of “weakness” on their part, said Richard Malka, a
lawyer representing Strauss-Kahn.  Presidential Hopeful  Strauss-Kahn, who one year ago was a presidential hopeful
for  France ’s Socialist Party, has denied the prostitution case
allegations, claiming he didn’t know that the women were being
paid, and refutes claims of violence, his lawyers have said.
Paying for sex is legal in France. Procuring prostitutes for
someone else isn’t.  Two prostitutes told investigators they participated in a
sex party with four men, including Strauss-Kahn, in Washington,
 Agence France-Presse  said today, citing police statements by the
women. One said she was forced to perform non-consensual sex
acts, telling the police, “I didn’t shout, but I clearly said
in a loud voice that I didn’t want to,” according to the AFP
report.  “This is really turning the heat up, pimping and rape are
not the same thing, neither are very attractive, but gang rape
is a completely different kettle of fish,” said Christopher Mesnooh, a Paris lawyer who isn’t involved in the case. “There
have been some comments about the credibility of these
witnesses, but clearly the prosecutors believe this is something
worth investigating.”  Bail Restrictions  Strauss-Kahn has appealed restrictions tied to his bail,
including a ban on talking to the media, with another of his
lawyers, Henri Leclerc, saying at a Paris press conference in
March that it violated his human rights. A closed-door hearing
on his request to loosen the restraints is scheduled for May 23.  “It would be hard to square investigating group rape with
easing up on the terms of his release,” said Mesnooh. “That’s
probably a non-starter.”  The former IMF managing director gave up his post last year
after being arrested in  New York  on charges he sexually
assaulted a hotel maid. Local prosecutors dropped that case
because of concerns about his accuser’s credibility and Strauss-
Kahn returned to France, where he faced a separate accusation of
attempted rape, which was also dropped.  Strauss-Kahn lost his bid to block a civil suit by the
maid, Nafissatou Diallo, over arguments he benefited from
diplomatic immunity at the time of the incident, which he called
a “moral fault” that “involved no violence, no coercion, no
aggression.”  He filed a counterclaim against Diallo on May 15 seeking
damages of at least $1 million for a “malicious and wanton”
false accusation, according to his court filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  