-- Supreme Court to Consider Suit Challenging Wiretap Law
-- B y   B o b   D r u m m o n d
-- 2012-05-21T14:52:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/supreme-court-to-consider-suit-challenging-wiretap-law.html
The U.S. Supreme Court will consider
whether lawyers and civil rights activists can pursue a
challenge to a federal law allowing government surveillance of
international phone calls and Internet communications.  The justices today agreed to hear the government’s bid to
throw out the lawsuit by the  American Civil Liberties Union ,
representing Amnesty International and a group of lawyers,
international rights activists, journalists and other
plaintiffs.  The groups asked a New York federal court to rule that 2008
amendments to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act violate
the Constitution by allowing the monitoring of international
communications by Americans who aren’t suspected of criminal or
terrorist activities. The law protects companies such as  AT&T
Inc. (T)  and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  from lawsuits claiming they
let the government use their networks for improper wiretaps.  The case before the high court involves questions about
whether the ACLU and its allies can pursue their lawsuit, and
doesn’t address the constitutionality of the wiretapping law
itself.  The Obama administration is seeking to have the case
dismissed, saying those who sued lacked legal standing because
the law, aimed at monitoring communications by non-Americans
outside the U.S., doesn’t directly apply to them. The government
said there was no evidence they suffered harm from surveillance
by U.S. intelligence agencies.  Testing U.S. Powers  “The constitutionality of the government’s surveillance
powers can and should be tested in court,” Jameel Jaffer, the
lead ACLU lawyer on the case, said in an e-mailed statement.
“We are hopeful that the  Supreme Court  will agree.”  The 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in New York said the
lawsuit could proceed. It said the U.S. lawyers, activists and
journalists were affected because their conversations may be
tapped if they were on the other end of an international call
with someone targeted for surveillance.  The appeals court said a belief that their communications
could be intercepted prompted “costly and burdensome measures”
to ensure confidentiality, such as traveling long distances for
face-to-face talks that otherwise could have been conducted by
telephone or e-mail.  The  Justice Department  said the appeals court set an overly
lenient test.  Surveillance concerns by the ACLU and other groups are
“completely speculative,” the government said. Allowing them
to sue over the expense of guarding against the possibility that
their conversations may be monitored lets them “establish
standing through self-inflicted injury,” the Justice Department
said.  Stricter Standards  The  New York  appeals court’s decision to let the case
proceed conflicts with stricter standards applied by courts in
other parts of the country, the government said.  The 2008 law requires the government to get authorization
from a special Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court to
establish wiretaps.  The law’s requirements are so minimal, the ACLU argued,
that they amount to a “blank check” permitting surveillance
without showing the targets are “connected in any way, however
remotely, to terrorism.”  Lawyers are in effect required, as a matter of professional
ethics, to avoid telephone calls and e-mails for confidential
communications protected by attorney-client privilege, the ACLU
said.  The justices will hear the case in the term that begins in
October.  The case is Clapper v.  Amnesty International  USA, 11-1025.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Drummond in Washington at 
 bdrummond@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  