-- Suzlon Rises Most in Three Months in Mumbai on Debt Plans
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-05-21T11:45:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/suzlon-skirts-repower-sale-with-fundraising-plans.html
Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL)  advanced the most
in almost three months in Mumbai trading on a plan to raise as
much as $800 million this year in loans and a bond sale, easing
pressure on the company to sell its Repower Systems AG unit.  Suzlon rose 6.7 percent in the city, the biggest gain since
March 1. A group of about 20 banks agreed in principle to extend
a term loan of as much as $300 million,  India ’s largest wind-
turbine maker said May 18. The company is also working on plans
to sell as much as $500 million of high-yield bonds this year.  “Selling Repower doesn’t look too likely anymore,” Rosita D’Souza, an Elara Capital Plc credit analyst, said in  Singapore .  Suzlon  rose  1.35 rupees to 21.45 rupees in Mumbai, bringing
2012’s gain to 19 percent after a 67 percent slump last year.  SBI Capital Markets Ltd., one of the lead banks for the
loan, said it’s “extremely confident” of closing the deal in
time for Suzlon to meet its June bond repayments. The turbine
maker is working on plans “to monetize non-critical assets,”
according to an e-mailed statement on May 18. Repower is the
company’s “most critical asset” and isn’t for sale, Chief
Financial Officer Kirti Vagadia said on April 27.  Suzlon probably plans to transfer cash from the unit to
help meet repayments, Charanjit Singh, an analyst at HSBC
Holdings Plc, said in an e-mailed note to investors.  Singh estimated in March that Suzlon had $700 million in
bond and loan repayments maturing in the following 12 months and
an estimated cash balance of 7.5 billion rupees ($136 million).  Obligations include $358 million of dollar convertible
notes maturing June 12 that investors are unlikely to swap for
 stock  that’s trading 78 percent below the conversion price.  Repayments Maturing  Suzlon was studying options for Repower including a sale of
at least 1.5 billion euros ($1.9 billion) or a listing, people
with knowledge of the matter said last month. Under pressure
from creditors, Suzlon Founder Tulsi Tanti met  France ’s Alstom
SA, General Electric Co. and  Siemens AG (SIE)  about a possible sale,
the Wall Street Journal said in March. Hamburg-based Repower is
 Europe ’s third-largest offshore wind turbine supplier.  “Repower sale discussions, if any, would most likely be
discontinued,” Atul Gharde, a Hong Kong-based credit analyst at
SJS Markets Ltd., said by e-mail today. “If the bank loan deal
goes through, then Suzlon should be in a much better position to
meet its obligations for the year.”  While Suzlon plans to sell as much as $500 million in bonds
this year, it hasn’t appointed bankers and is “waiting for the
right window,” said Vikas Rathee, corporate finance chief, in a
May 18 interview. “The market has to be there.”  ‘Out of Woods’  Suzlon has another $200 million in convertible debt due in
October. The company requested a 45-day extension on two bonds
maturing June 12 in case of procedural delays in obtaining the
term loan of as much as $300 million, Rathee said. Bondholders
are supportive and won’t impose any penalties, he said.  The dollar term loan will probably be raised by Suzlon’s
foreign holding company AE-Rotor Holding BV and won’t need fresh
collateral or increased Repower leverage, Rathee said. Raising
the loan abroad will allow Suzlon to re-balance debt across the
group and reduce interest costs, he said. “When we’ve paid
these bonds, we’ll be out of the woods,” Rathee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  