-- Swaps Clearinghouses Set for Systemic Designation
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s ,   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-05-21T22:58:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/swaps-clearinghouses-set-for-systemic-designation.html
A panel of U.S. regulators plans to
designate some swaps clearinghouses as systemically important as
soon as tomorrow, putting them under heightened supervision,
according to two people familiar with the officials’ work.  Clearinghouses  are required to process most swaps in the
$708 trillion over-the-counter  derivatives market  under
provisions of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act. The designation will be
the Financial Stability Oversight Council’s first delineation of
which companies aside from banks would threaten the financial
system in the event of a failure. The panel is next scheduled to
meet tomorrow.  “The big clearinghouses are providing the freeway on which
these financial products can trade,” said  Mark Williams , a
former Federal Reserve examiner who teaches finance at  Boston
University . “The regulators are saying, ‘We need to understand
what sort of activities are on it, and we need to control the
speed limit on this freeway.’”  CME Group Inc., (CME)  the world’s largest futures exchange, said
last year it will have its clearinghouse designated. The
Chicago-based company guarantees interest-rate and credit-
default swaps. The designation of so-called financial-market
utilities is taking place under the Dodd-Frank Act overhauling
financial regulation and will entail tougher examination and
reporting requirements.  Panel Chairman  The panel of regulators, known as FSOC, also is in the
process of determining which non-bank financial companies are
systemic. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , the panel’s
chairman, has said it would make that designation by the end of
the year. U.S. bank holding companies with assets of $50 billion
or more are automatically deemed systemically important.  An administration official told reporters at a briefing
that at tomorrow’s meeting FSOC will discuss designation of
financial market utilities such as swaps clearinghouses, as well
as the JPMorgan Chase & Co. trading loss of $2 billion and the
proposed Volcker rule. The Volcker rule would ban banks from
proprietary trading while providing exemptions for hedging and
market-making. The rule also limits banks’ investments in
private equity and hedge funds.  Reduce Risk  Anthony Coley, a U.S. Treasury Department spokesman,
declined in an e-mail to comment on tomorrow’s decision.  The Dodd-Frank act aims to reduce risk and boost
transparency in the swaps market after largely unregulated
trades contributed to the 2008 credit crisis. Clearinghouses,
which are capitalized by their members, guarantee trades by
standing between buyers and sellers.  Under Dodd-Frank, the designated utilities may be subject
to Federal Reserve supervision, requiring them to open an
account at a Federal Reserve bank, develop a risk-management
framework and procedures and resources for a possible default.
The Fed also may provide access to its discount window in
“unusual and exigent” circumstances.  The Fed “hopefully will do a lot of strong modeling and
scenario analysis, and also have minimum requirements that need
to be put in place,” Williams said. “There’s a lot of
operational risk analysis.”  AIG Bailout  Credit-default swaps were closely tied to the 2008 financial
crisis. Insurer American International Group Inc. collected fees
by selling banks and other investors credit-default swaps that
would pay out if their mortgage securities defaulted. When the
housing market collapsed, AIG was unable to meet its promises,
and the U.S. government stepped in to honor the contracts.  Atlanta-based  Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE)  owns the
world’s largest credit-default swaps clearinghouse, and London-
based LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd., is owner of the biggest interest-
rate swap clearinghouse.  In July 2011, FSOC finalized a rule for how it would
determine when clearinghouses require extra scrutiny because of
their importance to the financial system.  The council must approve a designation by at least a two-
thirds vote, including the support of the council’s chairman.
Its 10 voting members include Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ;
Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman  Gary Gensler ;
Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro ; and
Comptroller of the Currency  Thomas Curry .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  