-- Swiss Stocks Gain as China Signals Will to Boost Growth
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-05-21T15:47:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/swiss-stocks-advance-swiss-market-index-increases-0-4-.html
Swiss stocks  rose, rebounding from
four weeks of declines, as China’s pledge to boost growth
outweighed speculation that  Greece  will leave the euro.  UBS AG (UBSN) , the biggest Swiss bank, advanced 1.1 percent after
a report that investment inflows to Switzerland have surged
because of mounting concern about the future of the euro area.
Cie. Financiere Richemont SA and  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the country’s
largest watchmakers, gained more than 2 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  increased 0.3 percent to 5,814.59 at
the close in Zurich, trimming this year’s decline to 2.1
percent. The gauge dropped 2.6 percent last week as Greece’s
politicians failed to form a government and the country’s
president called a second election for June 17. The Swiss
Performance Index also rose 0.3 percent today.  “This rally is being driven by hope of policy steps,
possibly from  China  or EU leaders, while data are all less than
ideal,” said Witold Bahrke, a senior strategist at PFA Pension
A/S in Copenhagen, where he helps oversee $55 billion. “Global
stocks erased gains made earlier this year so a short term
relief is just natural.”  China’s Premier,  Wen Jiabao , said China will focus on
bolstering economic growth to combat a slowdown in the world’s
second-largest economy.  Wen called for “putting stabilizing growth in a more
important position” and didn’t mention concern about inflation
in remarks published yesterday by the official Xinhua News
Agency. China may announce stimulus measures in the near term,
according to a front-page commentary today in the China
Securities Journal, published by Xinhua.  German-French Meeting  Germany’s Finance Minister,  Wolfgang Schaeuble , will
discuss the euro at a meeting with his newly installed French
counterpart,  Pierre Moscovici , in Berlin today as European Union
leaders prepare for a meeting in Brussels on May 23.  Group of Eight leaders on May 19 urged Greece to stay
within the euro area as polls in the country showed a close race
between parties supporting and opposing the austerity measures
contained in the EU-led bailout.  IG Metall,  Europe ’s biggest manufacturing union, said it
reached a deal with employers in the electrical and metal
industries to increase wages by 4.3 percent for workers in the
German state of Baden-Wuerttemberg.  The salary boost will apply to 800,000 employees starting
from May 1,  IG Metall  said after reaching the agreement with
Suedwestmetall, the manufacturers’ association. The state, which
is home to companies such as Daimler AG, Porsche SE and  Robert
Bosch GmbH , is the union’s benchmark region for contracts
nationwide.  UBS Shares Advance  UBS climbed 1.1 percent to 10.81 Swiss francs after NZZ am
Sonntag reported that financial-market inflows to Switzerland
were as much as four times greater than normal on some days last
week. The newspaper cited an unidentified major business partner
of  Switzerland’s biggest bank .  Swatch rose 2.4 percent to 386 francs and Richemont, the
maker of Montblanc pens and Cartier jewelry, gained 2.9 percent
to 57.70 francs.  The SMI’s  valuation  has fallen to 11.7 times the estimated
earnings of its companies, near the lowest level since January,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The volume of shares
changing hands on the index today was 20 percent lower than the
average of the last 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  