-- U.S. Northeast, Midwest Summer May Be Warmer Than Normal
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-05-21T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/u-s-northeast-midwest-summer-may-be-warmer-than-normal.html
The U.S. Northeast, Midwest and Rocky
Mountains region may be warmer than normal from June into
August, while the Southeast and West Coast are cooler, according
to Weather Services International.  Arizona  and  New Mexico , as well as the central and northern
Great Plains, may be the warmest areas in the U.S. during the
period, said  WSI , based in Andover,  Massachusetts .  “The big story for the summer, however, is the expected
reversal of the summer pattern from recent years that favored
very hot temperatures across the south-central and southeastern
U.S.,” said WSI Chief Meteorologist  Todd Crawford .  Forecasts of hot weather in high-population areas can
translate into increases in electric use as people turn to air
conditioners to cool businesses and homes. The low price of
natural gas has meant more  power plants  are using the fuel to
produce electricity.  Texas may be spared another record hot summer, according to
WSI.  Last year,  Texas  had an average temperature of 86.8 degrees
from June through August, the highest for any state, according
to the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration . The
Electric Reliability Council of Texas Inc., which represents 85
percent of the state’s electric load, called for conservation
measures last year because of the heat.  “We are predicting that the year-over-year change in the
summer temperatures will be particularly noticeable in the
Texas-based ERCOT power region, which suffered through a
brutally hot and dry summer last year,” Crawford said.  Heat in the Northeast and Midwest may break in August if an
El Nino develops in the central Pacific Ocean. El Nino is a
warming of sea surface temperatures that affects weather
patterns across the U.S.  WSI predicts most of the eastern U.S. will be cooler than
normal during August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  