-- U.S. Won’t Ease Oil Sanctions at Iran Nuclear Talks
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-05-21T23:23:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/u-s-won-t-ease-oil-sanctions-at-iran-nuclear-talks.html
Negotiators headed to Baghdad for a
second round of talks on  Iran’s nuclear program  won’t be giving
Iran the relief it’s seeking from oil and financial sanctions,
according to Obama administration officials and Western
diplomats.  At the same time, the U.S. and the five other major powers
that will participate in talks with Iran on May 23 -- the U.K.,
 France ,  Germany ,  China  and  Russia  -- have agreed on confidence-
building measures they may offer in response to Iranian
concessions, said several U.S. officials and Western diplomats
who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity
of the issue.  U.S. and European Union sanctions aimed at the No. 2
producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
are crippling Iran’s ability to export and get paid for crude
oil, its leading revenue source. The U.S. and EU are in no hurry
to ease the pressure before a deal is done, Obama administration
officials and Western diplomats said.  The six nations are willing to offer something: assistance
to Iran’s civilian nuclear program and an easing of restrictions
that have blocked Iran from getting spare parts for civilian
aircraft, four U.S. officials said.  “This is a reciprocal process. It’s very difficult for the
U.S. to get an Iranian concession now and give a U.S. concession
in three months,” said  Trita Parsi , author of “A Single Roll
of the Dice: Obama’s Diplomacy with Iran.”  “In order for them to get something, they have to give
something,” Parsi said.  Enriched Uranium  U.S. State Department officials said the offer would be
similar to a failed 2009 plan to take Iran’s stockpile of 19.75
percent enriched uranium and process it into fuel rods that
would be sent back to Iran for use in the Tehran Research
Reactor, which makes medical isotopes.  While medium-enriched uranium is needed to make medical
isotopes to treat cancer patients, it also can be enriched
further to weapons-grade levels. The international community
wants Iran to halt its 19.75 percent enrichment and ship out its
stockpiles -- steps that Iranian officials have signaled in
recent weeks they are willing to consider.  EU foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  has said the six
nations engaged in talks hope Iran will offer concrete proposals
responding to concerns that its nuclear program is a cover for a
weapons effort. U.S. officials and Western diplomats said no one
expects Iran will immediately address all concerns about its
nuclear activities.  Additional Sanctions  U.S. financial sanctions on nations that fail to reduce
significantly their imports of Iranian oil will go into effect
on June 28 as planned, as will a July 1 oil embargo blocking
Iranian crude from entering the EU, the officials said.  Obama administration officials said their position is firm
and united with the other five nations that will be at the table
in  Baghdad : that Iran answer all concerns about possible weapons
development, open suspect sites to intrusive inspections and
come into full compliance with the Nonproliferation Treaty and
UN resolutions.  While Iranian officials have claimed in state-run media
reports that the international community has accepted Iran’s
right to enrich uranium, U.S. officials and Western diplomats
say the six nations are demanding a halt to all domestic
enrichment by Iran.  Tough Bargaining Position  Three Obama administration officials and two Western
diplomats said no decision has been made on whether a lower
level of  uranium enrichment , 3.5 percent, might be acceptable if
Iran were to comply with the nonproliferation treaty and allow
full transparency that would dispel international worries about
a covert atomic bomb program.  Iran  would have to demonstrate significant verifiable
concessions before the U.S. and European Union would consider
easing penalties that have crippled Iran’s ability to export
oil, the officials said.  Parsi, president of the National Iranian American Council,
said in an interview that he believes the administration is
maintaining a tough bargaining position to strengthen its hand
both with Iran and with Congress, which has taken a hard line on
sanctions and is likely to oppose any softening of the
penalties.  “Instead of presenting a hypothetical American concession
in return for a hypothetical Iranian concession, the White House
is keeping quiet publicly,” he said. “They’ll go to table, and
then come back to Congress and say this is what we got. If they
get something significant, it’s easier to spin it as a win and
not focus on what they give away.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  