-- U.S. Senate Passes Measure Calling for Additional Iran Sanctions
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-05-21T23:24:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/u-s-senate-passes-measure-calling-for-additional-iran-sanctions.html
The  U.S. Senate  passed legislation
that endorses more sanctions for  Iran  after including a
provision stipulating that the measure doesn’t authorize the use
of force against the Middle Eastern country.  The bill, passed on a voice vote today, includes a “sense
of Congress” that intensified sanctions would help compel Iran
to abandon its efforts to acquire a nuclear weapon. The measure
urges President  Barack Obama  to initiate efforts to expand
Iranian sanctions.  “The Iranians need to know that we mean business,” said
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat. “I am
very happy that we were able to get this done.”  The measure would require the Treasury Department to
investigate whether the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps owns
or controls the National Iranian Oil Co. and the National
Iranian Tanker Co.  It would bar U.S.-based companies from doing business with
a financial messaging service for international money transfers,
known as Swift, if it processes transactions involving Iranian
banks. The legislation would require corporate disclosure of
Iran-related activity to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Senator Rand Paul, a Kentucky Republican, dropped his
objections to the bill after a provision was added emphasizing
that nothing in the measure “shall be construed as a
declaration of war or an authorization of the use of force
against Iran or  Syria .”  Passage of the measure came as Obama attended a NATO summit
in  Chicago .  Costs ’Outweigh’ Benefit  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, said the additional sanctions could help convince
Iranian leaders “that the costs of pursuing this weapon
outweigh any perceived benefit.”  “Any comprehensive policy that seeks to end Iran’s effort
to acquire a nuclear weapon needs to convince the rulers in
Tehran that their survival is in question,” McConnell said.
“The Senate has worked hard to improve our sanctions toward
Iran, and this effort, combined with the sanctions of the
European Union, should strengthen the hand of our own
negotiators.”  The Senate’s action sets up a potential conference with the
U.S. House, which passed a version of the sanctions legislation,
410-11, on Dec. 14.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 Jschneider50@bloomberg.net  