-- Lundbeck Gains Amid Speculation of Antidepressant Success
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-05-21T15:07:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/lundbeck-gains-amid-speculation-of-antidepressant-success.html
H. Lundbeck A/S (LUN) , the second-biggest
Nordic drug company, rose to its highest price in nine months in
Copenhagen on speculation its new treatment for depression will
succeed in replacing Lexapro.  Lundbeck rose 5.5 percent, making it today’s best performer
in the benchmark  Copenhagen 20 Index. (KFX)  The stock advanced 6.5
kroner to close at 123.90 kroner, its highest since Aug 17.  “The discussion moves from ‘if’ to ‘how big’,” on the
revenue potential for Lundbeck’s experimental LU AA21004
medicine, Deutsche Bank AG said today in a note to clients,
raising its recommendation on the shares to buy from hold.  The Copenhagen-based company said May 14 the drug showed
statistically significant results in eight of 10 late-stage
studies that will support regulatory filings in the U.S. and
 Europe  this year. The new medicine could help Lundbeck replace
lost revenue from its best-selling Lexapro antidepressant, which
went off-patent in the U.S. in March, Deutsche Bank said.  “Investors had little hope from new antidepressant Lu
AA21004, but its clinical success now hints at significant long-
term growth and security,” Deutsche Bank said. “That’s clearly
still not represented in the share price.  The drug addresses “a huge unmet need” as more than 40
percent of patients stop taking available medications because of
side effects or because they don’t feel much better, Chief
Executive Officer Ulf Wiinberg said in an interview in  London 
last week. Lundbeck, which focuses on illnesses related to the
central nervous system, has several other drugs in late-stage
clinical trials, including treatments for psychosis,
schizophrenia and stroke.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  