-- Underwear Bombers Show Limits of TSA’s Groping
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-05-21T23:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/underwear-bombers-show-limits-of-tsa-s-groping.html
A few weeks ago, agents of the
 Transportation Security Administration  assigned to
 Washington ’s Reagan National Airport stopped my mother-in-
law, a very nice and unthreatening 79-year-old who was in
Washington to lobby on behalf of public libraries, and
asked her an enormously rude question.  She had just passed through one of the TSA’s advanced
imaging machines when an agent asked, rather too loudly:
“Are you wearing a sanitary napkin?”  My mother-in-law has a fine sense of humor, so she
wasn’t terribly offended. “No. Why do you ask?” The agent
responded, “Well, are you wearing anything else down
there?”  At this point, my mother-in-law’s traveling companion,
likewise a volunteer library advocate, asked if there was a
problem. “There’s an anomaly in the crotch area,” the agent
said.  My mother-in-law was again made to raise her arms in
the stick-’em-up position as the scanner looked under her
clothing. Naturally, the “anomaly” disappeared. She was
allowed to board her flight. Later, she asked me, “What did
they think I was, a lady underpants bomber?”  The answer, of course, is that they weren’t thinking
at all. They were responding mechanically, and crudely.  A New Bomb  This little episode was a  source of laughter  for us in
her family until word came, a few days later, that Ibrahim
Hassan al-Asiri, a Yemen-based bomb designer affiliated
with al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, had designed a new
non-metallic explosive device that could be worn like a
pair of form-fitting briefs. Once detonated, it could have
punched a hole through the skin of the U.S.-bound aircraft
the terrorists were targeting.  Luckily, AQAP provided this underwear bomb to a double
agent, who turned it over to intelligence officials. U.S.
and Saudi agents had been monitoring the plot for some
time. Specialists who studied the bomb said it was more
sophisticated than the one that Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab
tried to detonate over  Detroit  in 2009.  Which raised an obvious question: Would the TSA have
been able to identify this most dangerous anomaly in the
crotch area, had al-Qaeda managed to build one in the U.S.?  I asked  John Pistole , the TSA’s administrator, who
formerly helped lead the FBI’s counterterrorism efforts. He
mentioned the TSA’s new scanning devices, now in use at
about 180 airports.  “The advanced imaging technology gives us the best
chance to detect the underwear-type device,” he said.  The best chance? “This is not 100 percent guaranteed,”
he said. “If it comes down to a terrorist who has a well-
concealed device, and we have no intelligence about him,
and he comes to an advanced-imaging technology machine, it
is still our best technology. But it’s really an open
question about whether the machine, or the AIT operator,
would detect the device.”  What about one of those very special TSA pat-downs?
Would they help locate an underwear-shaped bomb? Pistole
told me that the TSA has developed mock-ups of the bomb,
and agents are being instructed on its design and how to
detect it.  “If done properly, it may be found,” he said.  No Perfect Security  I admire his calibrated answer. There are, in fact,
many things to admire about Pistole: his willingness to
take on a completely thankless job, his general
forthrightness, and in particular his campaign to teach the
U.S. public, and its elected representatives, that there is
no such thing as perfect security.  But I came away from our conversation unconvinced that
the TSA can keep up with advances in jihadist bomb-making.  As a frequent flier who generally  chooses the pat-down 
over the scanner (I find the scanner even more humiliating
than a federally funded groping), I can say that on some
occasions the manual search I experienced was so rote that
I could have passed through security with a  bag of grenades 
down my pants. And the devil’s workshop operating in Yemen
under al-Asiri’s direction is the obsession of
counterterrorist forces worldwide precisely because it is
focused on designing a bomb that will defeat airport
security.  Which suggests an obvious conclusion: The existence of
this latest iteration of the underwear bomb is, as the
security expert Bruce Schneier argues, an advertisement
against increased airport security -- not in favor of it.  The chance that the government would actually ratchet
back security is close to nil. But when even the head of
the TSA admits that its technology might not be able to
stop innovative new bombs, it might be time to look at our
counterterrorism spending priorities -- and focus more
resources on stopping embryonic plots and less on harassing
my mother-in-law.  The operation against AQAP’s newest bomb was a success
precisely because it took place so close to the source of
the plot. As Schneier points out, terrorism isn’t easy.
Most plots fail, and fail early. If an underwear bomber
reaches an airport, and is only a couple of hours away from
boarding a plane he plans to destroy, it means that he and
his co-conspirators have brought a complicated plan to
maturity despite the best efforts of the most sophisticated
counterterrorism campaign in history.  In other words, if the only thing standing between the
bomber and his target is a TSA pat-down, bet on the bomber.  There is good news in the fight to make airport
security smarter. The TSA is expanding its PreCheck
expedited-screening program and will allow children under
12 and adults over 75 to keep their shoes on as they pass
through scanners. Members of the military will also be
treated with more flexibility.  But on what truly matters -- can a TSA checkpoint
prevent al-Qaeda from blowing up a civilian aircraft even
if every other counterterrorism measure put in place after
Sept. 11 fails -- the answer remains: probably not.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  shareholder revolts 
and  advice for Greek voters ;  Edward Glaeser  on the  meaning
of the latest job numbers ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on  Mitt Romney ’s
 health-care plans ; William Pesek on  Japan’s asset bubble ;
Meghan L. O’Sullivan on  Israel’s natural-gas bonanza ;  Mark
Taylor  on  the future of online education .  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 