-- Urban Outfitters Rises After Profit Tops Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-05-21T21:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/urban-outfitters-rises-after-profit-tops-analysts-estimates.html
Urban Outfitters Inc. (URBN) , the retailer
that rehired co-founder Richard Hayne as chief executive officer
this year, rose in late trading after reporting first-quarter
profit that beat analysts’ estimates on record sales.  The company’s shares rose 4.5 percent to $27.35 at 4:20
p.m. in New York, after the close of regular trading. Net income
for the three months ended April 30 fell to $34 million, or 23
cents a share,  from  $38.6 million, or 23 cents, a year earlier,
according to a statement today from the Philadelphia-based
company. Analysts had projected 20 cents, the average of 28
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Urban is attempting a rebound after profit for the year
ended Jan. 31 shrank to a four-year low as the chain boosted
discounts to clear inventory. The company has had new management
in place since November, with Hayne succeeding former CEO Glen Senk, Under Armour Inc. alum David McCreight joining as CEO of
the Anthropologie brand and Ted Marlow returning as head of the
namesake Urban Outfitters label.  “We are encouraged by the customer response to the steady
progress our brands have made in creative and product
execution,” Hayne said in the statement.  Sales rose 8.6 percent to the record $568.9 million, driven
by online purchases and revenue from Urban Outfitters and Free
People stores. Analysts on average had estimated $578.3 million.  Gross margin, the percentage of sales left after
subtracting the cost of goods sold, shrank to 35.6 percent from
36.9 percent a year earlier, as the company opened 14 new stores
and had to increase markdowns on “a few women’s apparel
categories across all brands,” according to the statement.  Urban Outfitters  had lost  5.1 percent this year through the
close of regular trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  