-- Brooks Asked Ex-PM’s Aide to Call Off Parliament Hounds
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-05-21T16:07:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/murdoch-parties-were-great-treat-for-politicians-jowell-says.html
Rebekah Brooks, the executive charged
with trying to cover up phone hacking at News Corp. tabloids,
asked former U.K. Prime Minister  Gordon Brown ’s business
secretary to stop lawmakers from “hounding” the company.  Peter Mandelson  would call Brooks to complain about the way
Brown was being portrayed in the company’s newspapers, he told
an inquiry into media ethics in London today. In return, Brooks,
the ex-chief executive officer of the New York-based company’s
News International unit, would “come to me and complain that
Tom Watson, or whoever it was on the Culture Media and Sport
select committee, were hounding them and couldn’t they be pulled
away,” he said.  The media-ethics panel, triggered by the phone-hacking
scandal at News Corp.’s News of the World tabloid, is examining
whether the relationship between reporters and public officials
has gotten too close. Judge Brian Leveson, who is running the
inquiry, has heard that Brooks and other executives at  News
Corp. (NWSA)  hosted politicians at parties, weddings and on vacation.  Parties hosted by News Corp. and the family of Chief
Executive Officer Rupert Murdoch were considered “a great
treat” for U.K. politicians, former Culture Secretary Tessa Jowell said today.  “If you ask anybody, if they’re honest, would they like to
go to a great party, the answer is yes, but importantly, is this
my only chance to have a conversation with the prime minister?”
Jowell told the inquiry today in London. “It is a great treat,
but it doesn’t actually impinge on the way we make decisions.”  Elisabeth’s Wedding  Jowell was responsible for overseeing a change in media-
ownership rules, conducted while  Tony Blair  was prime minister,
which made it possible for companies like News Corp. to expand.
She said she declined an invitation to the wedding of Murdoch’s
daughter, Elisabeth, while the review was under way.  The current culture secretary,  Jeremy Hunt , is under
investigation by a parliamentary watchdog over meetings with
media companies. E-mails produced as evidence at the Leveson
inquiry showed conversations between a former Hunt aide and a
News Corp. lobbyist that shared confidential information on a
review of the company’s attempt to purchase  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   The aide,  Adam Smith , and the lobbyist, Fred Michel, are
scheduled to testify at the inquiry later this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in  London  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  