-- Turkish Lira Advances First Time in Seven Days on Tighter Policy
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-05-21T14:44:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/turkish-lira-gains-against-dollar-for-first-time-in-seven-days.html
The lira strengthened for the first
time in seven days, snapping its longest losing streak in six
months after the central bank  tightened  monetary policy.  The Turkish currency gained as much as 0.7 percent in
intraday trade before trading less than 0.1 percent stronger at
1.8343 per dollar at 4:44 p.m. in Istanbul. The currency
advanced 3.1 percent this year in the third-best performance
among  emerging markets  after the Colombian peso and the
Hungarian forint. The six-day slump in the lira, ending May 18,
was the longest string of declines since Nov. 21.  Turkey ’s  central bank  has withheld lending at its lowest
annual funding rate for the first time since May 11 and instead
provided today 2 billion liras in one-week  repurchase agreements 
at 10.8 percent and 500 million liras overnight lending at 11
percent. The bank varies the policy rate daily, keeping
borrowing costs within a 5.75 percent to 11.5 percent interest-
rate corridor introduced last year.  “The lira’s depreciation was going to a dangerous point
for the central bank,” Tufan Comert, a strategist at Garanti
Securities in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments, adding this
prompted the central bank to tighten.  The lira depreciated 1.3 percent over the past five days,
piercing its 200-day moving-day average at 1.8073 that placed
the currency in oversold territory on May 18, according to the
relative strength index.  “The lira lost at that moment when the euro lost against
the dollar,”  Felix Herrmann , an analyst at DZ Bank AG in
 Frankfurt , said in e-mailed comments.  “The positive effect of this morning auction at 11% has
already vanished as it seems. Important for further Lira gains
is that the central bank sticks to lending at a higher rate,”
Herrmann said.  The  yield  on benchmark two-year debt was unchanged at 9.51
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  