-- Music Downloading Damages Left Intact by U.S. High Court
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-05-21T14:06:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/music-downloading-damages-left-intact-by-u-s-high-court.html
The U.S. Supreme Court left intact a
$675,000 jury verdict against a college student who downloaded
and redistributed thousands of songs from the Internet without
paying.  The court, without comment, refused to hear  Boston 
University student Joel Tenenbaum’s challenge to a law that let
the recording industry collect thousands of dollars from
individuals for such downloading. The jury was told to impose
damages, set by U.S. copyright law, of between $750 and $150,000
per violation. Jurors set a rate of $22,500 for each of 30 songs
he downloaded.  Tenenbaum said individual downloaders who don’t make money
from sharing songs shouldn’t be treated the same as companies
whose business is to steal copyrighted content. A U.S. appeals
court rejected that argument, ruling that all illegal
downloaders, regardless of their motives, are subject to the
same range of penalties.  “This pernicious interpretation of the Copyright Act
transforms every bit of cyberspace into a potentially exploding
lawsuit and is sparking the development of a spam-litigation
industry,” Tenenbaum’s lawyers said in his  high court  appeal.  The  Recording Industry Association of America , acting on
behalf of major record labels, sued more than 12,000 people and
sent notices to thousands of others it claimed were illegally
sharing music. The industry said it lost billions of dollars of
revenue.  Tenenbaum and a woman from  Minnesota  took their cases to
trial, and both lost. An appeals court plans to hear arguments
in the Minnesota case in June. The industry group filed the
claims before 2008, when it adopted a different strategy to
combat illegal downloading.  Amount of Damages  The trial judge in Tenenbaum’s case reduced the jury award
to $67,500, saying the larger amount was unconstitutionally
excessive. The 1st U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Boston
reinstated the award and said the  record companies  would be
entitled to a new trial if the judge cut the award again.  Suing Tenenbaum were  Sony Corp. (6758)  and its Arista Records,
Warner Music Group’s Warner Bros. and Atlantic labels and
 Vivendi SA’s (VIV)   Universal Music Group . They said he made songs
available on various sites including Napster, Morpheus, Kazaa
and LimeWire, distributing songs to millions of other people. He
continued after being sent a letter from the record companies,
and blamed sisters, houseguests and even burglars, the companies
said.  “Tenenbaum undertook these actions even though he was
fully aware that they were illegal,” the record companies said.
“In fact, his own father warned him that individuals were being
sued for such conduct but he did not stop.”  Illegal Downloads  The  Supreme Court  had ruled in 2005 that Internet file-
sharing networks may bear responsibility when users illegally
download music and movies, giving the recording industry new
power to shut down such sites.  The record companies said they were forced to go after
individual users because a new downloading site popped up for
each one that was shut down.  The music companies said in a court filing that Congress
set the range of damages because it’s hard to put a value on
harm caused by copyright infringement.  Tenenbaum’s lawyers said a 2008 study estimated that the
average teenager illegally downloaded 800 songs, which would
expose that person to damages of as much as $120 million.
Multiplied by the number of people sued by the recording
industry, the maximum damage amount would reach $1.5 trillion.  The Obama administration defended the statute, saying
Tenenbaum’s argument that the recording industry should have to
show how much it was harmed by his actions would defeat the
law’s purpose of deterring copyright infringement.  The government urged the court not to take the case, saying
some issues remained unresolved, including what the judge might
do to the $675,000 damage award.  The case is Tenenbaum v. Sony BMG Music Entertainment Inc.,
11-1019.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  