-- Vale’s Natural Gas Asset Sale Draws Interest From Cemig
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-05-21T20:18:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/vale-s-natural-gas-asset-sale-draws-interest-from-cemig.html
Cia. Energetica de Minas Gerais ,
 Brazil ’s second-biggest electricity producer, wants to buy
natural-gas reservoirs from  Vale SA (VALE3)  to have more fuel for power
generation.  Cemig, as the  Belo Horizonte , Brazil-based utility is
known, needs sources of gas other than the state-run oil
producer  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , which provides Cemig with
almost all of the fuel it currently uses, Chief Financial
Officer Luiz Rolla said in an interview at the Rio Investors Day
conference today.  “If those assets are good and attractive and provide what
we need for development, yes it’s a possibility,” Rolla said.
“We are looking for additional supplies other than Petrobras.”  Vale, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, is looking to
sell stakes in oil and gas exploration fields to focus on
increasing returns to shareholders after declining prices for
minerals and metals reduced profit margins. Vale has minority
stakes in onshore and offshore gas projects in Brazil.  Cemig rose 0.8 percent to 34.80 reais in  Sao Paulo .  ‘Best Potential’  “We view natural gas as the best potential for growth over
the next five years, we need to enlarge our scale,” Rolla said.
“The natural gas business is complementary to the power
business.”  Cemig aims to become Brazil’s second-biggest energy
company, behind Petrobras, by 2018 as it pursues acquisitions to
expand electricity generation and distribution, Rolla said.  Vale entered the hydrocarbons exploration business in 2007
as part of a strategy to supply gas to its mining operations,
and has minority stakes in oil and gas blocks.  Vale hired  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  and Citigroup Inc. to sell
its oil and natural gas assets, according to three people
familiar with the matter. An official at Vale’s press office,
who can’t be named because of company policy, declined to
comment on Cemig’s potential purchase.  Vale  said  in 2010 that it certified oil and natural gas
resources equivalent to 210 million barrels of oil, with
potential to produce 58,000 barrels a day in 2017. The company
said then it had 23 offshore blocks in 14 concessions in
Brazil’s Santos, Espirito Santo and Para-Maranhao basins and two
onshore concessions in the Parnaiba basin.  Petrobras,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and Repsol YPF SA are
among Vale’s  partners  in the concessions, according to data from
the Brazilian oil regulator known as ANP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  