-- Van Cleef Expects to Win China Sales on Slowing Economy
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o n l e y   a n d   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-05-21T04:43:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/van-cleef-expects-to-win-china-sales-on-slowing-economy.html
Van Cleef & Arpels, the jewelry house
owned by  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR) , expects to win gem sales
from Chinese consumers concerned with declining stock and
property investments.  Jewelry demand will hold amid economic uncertainty, Van
Cleef & Arpels Chief Executive Officer Stanislas de Quercize
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television in Shanghai
yesterday. The Paris-based house, whose gems have been worn by
 Julia Roberts  and Scarlett Johanssen, has opened eight stores in
mainland  China  since 2004.  Asia has become Richemont’s biggest market, overtaking
 Europe , with  revenue from the region  more than doubling to 51
percent of the company’s total since the year ended March 2009.
Sales of luxury jewelry in mainland China grew about 25 percent
last year, according to a  report  last December by Bain & Co.  “Jewelry with provenance from an expert, there’s no
comparison,” de Quercize said. “It’s the top of the chart in
terms of long-lasting value.”  Chinese  import prices  for jewelry and precious materials
hit their highest level in at least five years last January,
according to government data.  Price inflation in the European Union for jewelry, clocks
and watches hit a 15-year high of  12 percent  last March and is
currently running at 10.5 percent, according to Eurostat.  Jewelry with recognized brands has the same scarcity value
and long-term appeal as Picasso paintings, Quercize said.  “It’s reassuring to know that its holding value can
increase,” he said.  Jewelry makes up about half of Geneva-based Richemont’s
 sales  and 80 percent of operating income, with watch-making
comprising the bulk of the rest.  While jewelry can be considered a store of value, auction
prices can fall below those in retail stores and wholesale
prices may fluctuate.  Prices for top-quality 1 carat diamonds are about 14
percent less than their level in July, according to an  index 
compiled by the Rapaport Diamond Report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Conley in  Shanghai  at 
 mconley3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  