-- Vietnam Outpacing Asia as Investment Banks Chase State Deals
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2012-05-21T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/vietnam-outpacing-asia-as-investment-banks-chase-state-deals.html
Investment-banking fees in  Vietnam 
may jump at least 25 percent this year as the country’s
government steps up a push to sell assets and foreign companies
accelerate acquisitions, according to  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)   Vietnam has defied a drop in investment-banking revenue
elsewhere in  Asia  as the value of mergers rose to a six-year
high in the first quarter. The VN Index has gained 29 percent
this year in dollar terms, the third-biggest advance among 96
major stock benchmarks tracked by Bloomberg, as inflation eased
and the government cut key policy rates to support growth.  “We think Vietnam is a market that has strong potential,”
said Le Hoai Anh, head of Credit Suisse’s operations in the
country, in an interview. The Zurich-based company started its
 investment-banking  business in Vietnam in 2001.  The Vietnamese government has pledged to sell stakes in
companies including Bank of Investment and Development of
Vietnam as it follows  China ’s model of reducing state
involvement in business. Meanwhile, eight straight months of
easing  inflation  has helped attract foreign acquirers.  Investment-banking fees in Vietnam jumped 24 percent last
year even as revenues in Asia fell almost 10 percent, according
to New York-based researcher Freeman & Co. Still, Vietnam’s haul
of $46 million is about a 10th of what  Indonesia  generates,
Freeman data show.  “The reason why banks are still pitching and still
spending time in Vietnam is not for $46 million,” said Chang Tou Chen,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s head of investment banking for the
Asia-Pacific region. “It’s for an investment in the future.”  Fish-Sauce Maker  KKR & Co. (KKR)  made the biggest private-equity investment in
Vietnam’s history when it agreed to pay $159 million for a stake
in fish-sauce maker Masan Consumer Corp. in April 2011. In
September, the state-owned lender known as Vietcombank said it
would sell a 15 percent stake to  Japan ’s  Mizuho Financial Group
Inc. (8411)  for $567 million, marking the largest inbound acquisition
in a decade.  Chang said he expects one or two acquisitions a year of
more than $500 million involving Vietnamese companies. The
country has seen two transactions in the past decade of that
size -- the Vietcombank deal and  ConocoPhillips (COP) ’s $1.3 billion
sale of its Vietnam operations to Perenco SA, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “Vietnam, we sensed, represents a major opportunity, where
we can be the bridge of providing international capital,
expertise, and helping the government and domestic sectors,”
said Rehan Anwer, a director at Credit Suisse’s Vietnam
investment banking coverage team. Anwer estimated fees for the
industry as a whole may rise at least 25 percent this year.  Stocks Slump  The VN Index slumped 9.4 percent last week, the biggest
five-day drop in a year, as concern that  Greece ’s debt crisis is
worsening weighed on  emerging-market equities . Vietnam’s
economic growth eased to 4 percent in the first quarter from
5.89 percent for all of 2011.  The State Capital Investment Corporation, which manages the
Vietnamese government’s holdings in companies, plans to sell
stakes in 254 businesses this year, according to its  website .  Seven global investment banks showed up in January to pitch
for work helping a state-owned company based in Hanoi sell a
stake worth about $500 million, , chairman of Vietnamese
investment firm Horizon Capital Advisers. Kham, who was at the
meeting, didn’t name the company or the banks.  “It’s an exciting story,” said Brooks Entwistle, the
Singapore-based Southeast Asia chairman of  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  “We make sure we’re current, active, and involved in the
most important situations in the country.”  New York-based Goldman Sachs has made about $120 million of
investments in Vietnam since the early 1990s, including a stake
in Internet gaming company Vinagame.  False Starts  Vietnam’s privatization program has stalled before. In
2007, State Capital Investment said Vietnam Airlines Corp. and
Bank of Investment & Development of Vietnam were planning sales
by the following year. Neither deal happened in that timeframe.  Bank of Investment, known as BIDV, eventually raised 1.58
trillion dong ($76 million) in an IPO in December and said in
March it plans to sell a stake of as much as 15 percent to a
foreign buyer this year. Vietnam Airlines will open bidding this
quarter to choose an IPO adviser, local newspaper Dao Tu
reported in April.  “Momentum will pick up in the country, it’s just a
question of when,” said Brett Krause,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s Vietnam
head. “So much depends on public policy that will determine how
quickly things will move.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  