-- Vodacom Chief Uys Predicts Company Won’t Lose Congo Stake
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 2012-05-21T15:27:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/vodacom-not-worried-about-losing-shares-in-congo-ceo-uys-says.html
Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD) , the largest
provider of mobile-phone services to South Africans, is
confident it will keep its stake in a  Democratic Republic of
Congo  unit as it’s pursuing court processes.  “We’re not at all worried about losing our shares in
Vodacom Congo,” Chief Executive Officer Pieter Uys said in an
interview at Vodacom’s Johannesburg head office today. “The
auction may not even go ahead.”  A commercial court, based in the Congolese capital
Kinshasa, issued an order on May 14 to sell by public auction
Vodacom’s 510,000 shares in its 51-percent held Vodacom Congo
SPRL unit to enforce a Jan. 25 judgment that Vodacom pay Moto
Mabanga’s Namemco Energy (Pty) Ltd. a $21 million consulting
fee. Vodacom has denied owing this amount. The auction is
scheduled for June 3, according to court papers.  “We have three separate legal processes going at the
highest level of the judicial system to challenge that
decision,” said Uys. Another two “processes are ongoing
outside the judiciary system,” said Uys, declining to comment
further as the matter “is very sensitive” at this stage.  Vodacom’s shares rose 3.1 percent to 103.10 rand at the
stock market’s close in Johannesburg. The stock has advanced 16
percent this year.  Consulting Work  Vodacom, controlled by Newbury, England-based  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD) , is not trying to “short-circuit” the nation’s
judicial system by having unidentified processes outside the
court, said Uys. “We just want to be heard,” said Uys. “We
want a fair hearing, someone to listen to our appeals for
justice.” In the event that Vodacom legally owes Mabanga the
money, it will “happily pay,” he said.  Mabanga sued last year, seeking a $40.8 million success fee
for work done during 2007 and 2008. The commercial court ruled
on a reduced award in January. Mabanga was already paid a $2.8
million service fee for the consulting work, which Vodacom
maintains was a full and final settlement of its obligations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  