-- Welcome Shareholder Spring That Holds Bosses to Account
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-21T23:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/welcome-shareholder-spring-that-holds-bosses-to-account.html
Recent weeks have seen what some are
calling a “shareholder spring” in the U.S. and  Europe .
Investors, led by institutional shareholders (traditionally a
quiescent bunch), have protested pay awards for top executives
at several big public companies, and in some cases have
overturned them.  European Union regulators are now considering a next step:
giving owners a binding vote on top pay instead of the
nonbinding “say on pay” that prevails in much of the EU and in
the U.S. since 2011, compliments of the Dodd-Frank financial
reform  law . We understand why some people have reservations
about a binding vote on pay, but on the whole we’re for
it.  The shareholder backlash has been mainly directed at
financial institutions. More than half of  Citigroup (C)  Inc.’s
shareholders chose not to support the board’s proposal for
bosses’ pay last month. Shareholder revolted over pay at  UBS  AG
and  Barclays (BARC)  Plc. And after investors in Aviva Plc, a big
British insurer, balked at the board’s plans for top executives’
compensation, the CEO resigned. It has spread beyond pay, too.
Pressure from shareholders recently dislodged the chief
executive officer of  AstraZeneca (AZN)  Plc, a big pharmaceuticals
company. In that case, the fight was over performance and
strategy.  Exit Packages  Banks’ shareholders in particular are right to feel
aggrieved. Mismanagement has cost them dearly in recent years --
to say nothing of the costs imposed on taxpayers. Beyond
banking, there are signs that the trend of fast-rising CEO pay
has moderated or even gone into reverse lately, but overgenerous
exit packages and other cases of pay for failure still arise.
You could more easily argue that shareholders have been too
patient for too long than that their recent complaints are
groundless.  Better corporate governance needs owners who are more
engaged. The shareholder spring is a welcome development; in the
U.S. last year, investors approved all but 2 percent of
corporate compensation plans. But there is evidence that
companies, nervous about an embarrassing vote, are road-testing
their pay plans with large institutional investors before
putting them to a shareholder vote. Whether the uprising needs
to be bolstered by further regulatory change is another matter.  Advisory votes on pay, some argue, are enough: Votes that
empower shareholders to dictate pay at the top usurp the proper
role of directors and could interfere with contractual
obligations. Others argue almost the opposite -- that
shareholders would be more timid in exercising a mandatory vote
for fear of driving out skilled managers, destabilizing the
company and pushing down the share price.  In the U.K., the government has  proposed  the more radical
idea of requiring the support of 75 percent of shareholders to
approve a corporate pay plan. That’s going too far: A
supermajority rule risks giving undue blocking power to an
activist minority whose interests might not be those of owners
generally.  But it’s hard to see a principled objection to giving a
simple majority of a public company’s owners the power to
overthrow (rather than merely complain about) a pay proposal.
The chances are good that such a tool wouldn’t be used except in
rare cases when a board is dysfunctional.  No doubt, compensation committees shouldn’t need this extra
encouragement -- but until recently they haven’t done a notable
job and could evidently use more help. Perhaps the knowledge
that a shareholder vote really means something will make owners
and management more attentive.  Separate Board Chairman  Corporate governance in the U.S. would also be strengthened
if other recent trends advanced further. For instance, it’s
becoming less common for the role of CEO and board chairman to
be combined. The board’s role is to oversee management on behalf
of shareholders -- hard to do properly if the crucial player on
each side of the divide is the same.  The quality of independent directors also seems to be
improving, or at least they seem more willing to challenge top
executives. And numerous companies are moving away from
staggered terms for directors to annual elections, making it
easier for shareholders to clean house when a board is
ineffective. Institutional investors,  hedge funds  and other
major providers of capital are driving these changes and
remolding corporate culture -- in the process, helping other
owners by holding managers more accountable.  Managers of public companies complain that they are already
overregulated, and warn that if the burden gets any heavier the
flight to private ownership of major companies will accelerate.
They have a point. As a general matter, governments shouldn’t be
running companies or designing pay plans for top executives. But
better corporate governance is not the same as stricter
government control. Closer scrutiny by shareholders of rewards
for top executives is both legitimate and desirable. You could
say the owners owe it to themselves.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  advice for Greek voters ;
 Edward Glaeser  on the  meaning of the latest job numbers ;  Jeffrey
Goldberg  on the  TSA and underwear bombers ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on 
 Mitt Romney ’s  health-care plans ; William Pesek on  Japan’s asset
bubble ; Meghan L. O’Sullivan on  Israel’s natural-gas bonanza ;
 Mark Taylor  on  the future of online education .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 