-- Wen’s Pledge Spurs Biggest ADR Gain in 4 Months: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-05-21T21:12:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/wen-s-pledge-spurs-adr-rebound-from-2012-low-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  trading in New York
rose the most in four months, led by  Tudou Holdings Ltd. (TUDO) , after
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged to focus on bolstering growth
in the world’s second-largest economy.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. jumped 2.8 percent to 93.27
yesterday in New York, the biggest gain since Jan. 10. Tudou,
China’s second-largest video-sharing website, surged the most in
two months while  Youku Inc. (YOKU)  gained 11 percent.  Renren Inc. (RENN) 
extended losses as Facebook Inc. fell 11 percent in its second
day of trading.  China “should continue to implement a proactive fiscal
policy and a prudent monetary policy, while giving more priority
to maintaining growth,” Wen said over the weekend. The remarks,
published on May 20 by the official Xinhua News Agency, came
after Morgan Stanley lowered the country’s gross domestic
product growth forecast, citing a worse-than-expected slowdown
in the first quarter.  “Wen’s stronger wording for supporting economic growth may
help boost Chinese stocks,” Michael Gayed, chief investment
strategist in New York at Pension Partners LLC, which advises on
over $150 million in assets, said yesterday by phone. “China is
trying to get ahead of other emerging economies in voicing
support to the economy.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., advanced for the first time
since May 1, gaining 2.6 percent to $33.86, the biggest rally in
five weeks. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of mainland stocks
added 0.2 percent to 2,348.30. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
of U.S. shares rallied 1.6 percent to 1,316.02, snapping a six-
day decline.  ‘Everything Necessary’  Germany and  France  agree that they will do “everything
necessary” to ensure  Greece  remains in  Europe ’s currency union,
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said yesterday in Berlin
after a meeting with France’s  Pierre Moscovici .  Developments in France and Greece are having a direct
impact on emerging-market stocks, including China, as Europe is
the biggest buyer of exports from these economies, Gayed said.  Tudou’s American depositary receipts jumped 12 percent to
$33.44, the biggest advance since March 12. Its acquisition by
larger rival Youku is expected to close in the third quarter,
Shanghai-based Tudou said in a statement yesterday.  Beats Estimates  Tudou’s first-quarter sales surged 77 percent from a year
ago to 140.3 million yuan ($22.2 million), according to a
statement. The net loss for the quarter narrowed to 134.5
million yuan from 336 million yuan a year earlier.  Beijing-based Youku,  China ’s largest video-sharing website,
said it planned to acquire Tudou in a stock swap deal in a March
12 statement. Holders of Tudou’s ADRs will receive 1.595 ADRs of
Youku for each Tudou ADR they own, according to the companies’
joint statement that day.  Tudou is cutting costs in preparation for its merger with
Youku, said Andy Yeung, a New York-based analyst for Oppenheimer
& Co.  “Tudou saw significant improvement on net income through
cost controls that were much better than expected,” Yeung said
in a phone interview. “This bodes very well for the acquisition
process and is good news for investors.”  Youku’s ADRs jumped to $22.56,  the steepest daily increase
since March 12.  Chalco Premium  Morgan Stanley yesterday lowered its forecast for China’s
growth this year to 8.5 percent from 9 percent, while the
government aims for a 7.5 percent expansion this year.
Economists led by Helen Qiao said in a report to clients they
expect two interest-rate cuts this year, “zero” appreciation
by the  yuan  against the dollar and expanded capital spending by
the government and state-owned companies.  ADRs of  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. , the country’s largest
maker of the lightweight metal, increased 4.9 percent to a one-
week high of $10.66. The ADRs are trading 1.9 percent above the
 Hong Kong  stock, the highest premium since April 27. Each ADR
represents 25 underlying shares of the company.  Chalco’s parent, Aluminum Corp. of China, may start a $1
billion initial share sale this month in Hong Kong of its
Peruvian copper mining unit, said two people with knowledge of
the matter. The IPO will probably raise $800 million to $1
billion, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the information is private.  Focus, Kors  Digital advertising company  Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN) 
advanced 7.4 percent to $21.99, the biggest one-day rally since
Feb. 1, while  Michael Kors Holdings Ltd. (KORS) , a Hong Kong-based
luxury-clothing company, soared 8.4 percent to $40.71, the
largest daily gain in three months.  Shanghai-based Focus Media is  scheduled  to report its
first-quarter figures on May 28. Sales for the first three
months this year rose 32 percent from a year ago to $193.6
million, according to the  average estimate  of five analysts in a
Bloomberg News survey. That would compare with the company’s
forecast of $192 million provided in March.  Renren, which owns a real-name social networking website in
China, sank 3.9 percent to $4.74 in New York, the lowest since
Jan. 26, after losing 21 percent on May 18.  Facebook, the social networking site that raised $16
billion in its initial public offering on May 17, tumbled 11
percent to $34.03 in its second day of trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  