-- Wen Growth Pledge Spurs Speculation of China Stimulus
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-21T04:46:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/wen-growth-pledge-spurs-speculation-of-china-stimulus.html
Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao’s pledge
to focus more on bolstering growth spurred speculation the
government will step up efforts to combat a slowdown in the
world’s second-largest economy.  Wen called for “putting stabilizing growth in a more
important position” and didn’t mention concern about  inflation 
in remarks published yesterday by the official Xinhua News
Agency.  China  may announce stimulus actions in the near term,
according to a front-page commentary today in the China
Securities Journal, which is published by Xinhua.  The shift in language suggests authorities are “seriously
concerned about  growth ” and “ready to introduce further
measures,” Bank of America Corp. said in a research note today.
The government on May 12 cut banks’ required reserves for the
third time in six months following data that showed trade,
industrial production and lending were below forecasts in April.  “The April data has been a wake-up call for China,” said
 Alaistair Chan , a Sydney-based economist at Moody’s Analytics.
“There will probably be some stimulus measures through monetary
policy, more bank lending and infrastructure projects being
brought forward.”  China has allowed the yuan to weaken against the dollar
this year after it strengthened 4.7 percent in 2011. The
currency rose 0.06 percent today, the most in a month, to 6.3243
at 11:56 a.m. in  Shanghai , following a decline of about 0.5
percent in 2012 through May 18. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of
stocks rose 0.5 percent at 12:56 p.m. in  Tokyo .  The Xinhua report on Wen’s weekend visit to Wuhan, the
capital of Hubei province, was reposted yesterday on the
government’s website, attributing the information to the State
Council’s general office.  ‘Stable’ Growth  “The country should properly handle the relationship
between maintaining stable and relatively fast growth, adjusting
the economic structure and managing inflationary expectations,”
Wen said. “We should continue to implement a proactive fiscal
policy and a prudent monetary policy, while giving more priority
to maintaining growth.”  Current economic operations are generally stable and growth
is still within the expected range, but the domestic and
external environments are becoming even more complex, Wen said.  The statement separately cited officials from six provinces
including Guangdong as saying during a meeting with Wen that
“there are prominent problems seen in areas including
insufficient demand and falling profits in some industries and
companies. The economy is facing increasing downward
pressures.”  Interest-Rate Cut  Tim Condon , chief Asia economist at ING Financial Markets
in  Singapore , said the central bank will probably cut the
benchmark one-year lending rate by 25 basis points once
inflation slows to 3 percent, “which we think will be evident
in the May or June data.”  Bank of America’s Lu Ting, Hong Kong-based head of Greater
China economics, said he expects three reserve-ratio cuts of 50
basis points apiece by year end and that the chance of interest-
rate cuts, while still small, has increased with the April data.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. last week lowered its forecast for
China’s 2012 economic growth to 8.1 percent from a previously
estimated 8.6 percent, joining similar moves by banks including
Citigroup Inc. and UBS AG after April’s data trailed
expectations.  “Joint efforts of monetary, fiscal and industrial policies
are needed to stabilize growth before the leadership transition
this fall,” Citigroup Inc. economists including Shen Minggao in
 Hong Kong  said in a research note late yesterday.  The ruling Communist Party is preparing for a once-per-
decade transition later this year to a younger generation of
leaders, with Wen likely to be replaced with Vice Premier  Li Keqiang .  Morgan Stanley Forecast  Morgan Stanley today lowered its forecast for China’s
growth this year to 8.5 percent from 9 percent. Economists led
by Helen Qiao said they expect two interest-rate cuts this year,
“zero” appreciation by the yuan against the dollar and
expanded capital spending by the government and state-owned
companies.  Wen, during a visit to a Wuhan Iron & Steel Group Corp.
plant, encouraged officials at the company, one of China’s
largest steelmakers, to eliminate excess capacity, innovate and
expand market share, according to the statement.  Elsewhere in  Asia ,  Thailand ’s gross domestic product
unexpectedly expanded 0.3 percent last quarter from a year
earlier, compared with the median forecast for a 0.5 percent
decline. Bank of Thailand Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said
this month the monetary authority will refrain from further
interest-rate cuts because the pace of recovery is exceeding its
expectations, even as  Europe ’s debt woes and higher  oil prices 
pose risks to growth.  Taiwan may say export orders rose 0.5 percent in April from
a year earlier, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Poland Prices, Output  In Europe,  Poland  will release producer price data that may
show month-to-month gains accelerated in April from the previous
month, a Bloomberg survey indicated. The country’s industrial-
output growth probably rebounded in April, climbing 2.8 percent
from a year earlier, according to a separate survey.  The Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago will publish its U.S.
national economic activity index for April.  The China Securities Journal commentary said the fiscal
deficit should be widened to boost  government spending  and there
is still room to lower banks’ required reserve ratios. The
government may adjust export tax rebates and stabilize the  yuan 
 exchange rate  to bolster exports, according to the piece
credited to a reporter named Zhang Zhaohui.  Trade Slowdown  China’s exports and imports in April expanded the least for
the month since the global financial crisis.  Industrial output 
rose at the slowest pace since 2009, after the government
tightened credit to cool the  property market  and inflation.  Wen said the central government will boost domestic
consumption, “strive hard” to maintain stable foreign trade
growth, “stabilize” property controls and increase the supply
of ordinary housing.  More signs of weakening demand have emerged as  home prices 
fell in a record number of Chinese cities last month and car
dealers posted inventories that foreshadowed deeper price cuts.  The economy may expand at the slowest pace in 13 years in
2012, a Bloomberg News survey showed, with analysts forecasting
a further 100 basis-point reduction in the reserve ratio by
year-end.  At the same time, the government’s concern that inflation
will rebound may ease as consumer prices climbed 3.4 percent
from a year earlier in April, having slowed from a three-year
high of 6.5 percent in July.  --Victoria Ruan, Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Shamim Adam
in Singapore. Editors: Scott Lanman, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net ;
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  