-- Yen Falls Most in a Month on BOJ Stimulus Expectations
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-05-22T19:18:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/yen-remains-weaker-on-prospects-boj-to-add-stimulus.html
The yen weakened the most in a month
against the dollar as the  Bank of Japan (8301)  started a two-day
meeting amid speculation it will boost stimulus measures to spur
flagging growth.  Japan’s currency fell versus all its 16 major peers after
 Fitch Ratings  cut the nation’s credit ranking, saying it isn’t
acting quickly enough to tackle its public debt burden. The
pound weakened as the  International Monetary Fund  said the U.K.
needs more monetary easing. The euro fell the most in two weeks
against the dollar before the leaders of Germany and France meet
at the European summit in Brussels tomorrow.  “While there is no strong consensus about a move at this
meeting, the market is open-minded about ongoing monetary-policy
easing in the weeks and months ahead,” Shahab Jalinoos, a
senior currency strategist for UBS AG in  Stamford , Connecticut,
said of the Japan’s central bank. “We’re now seeing a track
record of the market getting nervous about the yen before BOJ
meetings.”  The yen declined 1 percent to 80.12 per dollar at 3:17 p.m.
in  New York , the biggest intraday drop since April 3. Japan’s
currency weakened 0.2 percent to 101.89 per euro. The euro
depreciated 0.8 percent to $1.2719, the steepest intraday slide
since May 7. It hit $1.2642 on May 18, the weakest level since
Jan. 16.  Sterling fell 0.4 percent to $1.5772. It gained 0.4 percent
to 80.63 pence per euro.  ‘Looks Leisurely’  JPMorgan Chase & Co. strengthened its dollar forecasts
today against all currencies except the yen, citing Greece’s
“lurch” toward an exit from the shared currency and economic
slowdowns in  China  and the U.S. The euro will fall to $1.22 in
the second quarter from a $1.34 estimate as of May 11. Canada’s
dollar will weaken to C$1.04 in that time instead of 98 cents
per  U.S. dollar  and Australia’s dollar will fall to 96 U.S.
cents compared to $1.08. The dollar may weaken to 78 yen at the
end of the second quarter.  Fitch lowered  Japan ’s long-term, foreign-currency ranking
to A+ from AA, and cut the local-currency grade to A+ from AA-,
the company said in a statement. The outlooks on both are
negative, it said.  “The country’s fiscal consolidation plan looks leisurely
relative even to other fiscally challenged, high-income
countries,” said  Andrew Colquhoun , head of Asia-Pacific
Sovereigns at Fitch in Hong Kong.  The yen has declined 3.1 percent this year, the worst
performer among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar appreciated
1.4 percent and the euro weakened 0.7 percent.  Euro Weakens  Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  told reporters today he
expects the BOJ to take appropriate steps in a timely manner and
said he regards highly the steps taken by the central bank since
February. The BOJ expanded its asset-purchase program in
February and April.  The euro dropped toward a four-month low against the
greenback after the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said  Europe ’s debt crisis risks spiraling.  Gross domestic product in the euro region will shrink 0.1
percent this year and expand 0.9 percent in 2013 instead of
posting growth of 0.2 percent and 1.4 percent as predicted last
November, the Paris-based organization said.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said yesterday she won’t
shy away from disagreeing with French President  Francois
Hollande  at the European Union summit beginning tomorrow.  Merkel, Hollande  “Everyone is waiting to see how Merkel and Hollande get
along and whether he changes some of his pre-election
rhetoric,” said Blake Jespersen, managing director of foreign
exchange in Toronto at  Bank of Montreal. (BMO)  “What is key going
forward, is France going to toe the line and support Germany?”  The pound snapped a two-day gain versus the dollar as the
IMF said more stimulus such as quantitative easing, or QE, was
needed to boost the economy. A U.K. government report showed
inflation slowed in April more than economists forecast.  Norway’s krone rose for a second day against the euro after
a report showed the economy expanded more than analysts forecast
in the first quarter.  The krone appreciated 0.4 percent to 7.5842 per euro after
rising 0.2 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  