-- Tyrannosaurus Bataar Sale After Judge Orders Auction Halt
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-05-21T17:24:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-21/tyrannosaurus-bataar-auction-ordered-halted-by-texas-judge.html
A judge in  Texas  ordered a halt to
the sale of a Tyrannosaurus bataar the day before it was
auctioned in New York for $1.05 million.  According to a document provided by a lawyer for the
Mongolian government, which is seeking to block the sale, Judge
Carlos Cortez in  Dallas  signed a temporary restraining order May
19.  The dinosaur fossil sold yesterday for $1.05 million,
contingent on the outcome of the Texas litigation, according to
a statement from Heritage Auctions.  Tyrannosaurus bataar, an Asian cousin of the North American
T-rex, roamed the earth about 80 million years ago.  The Dallas-based auction house said that its T-bataar was
excavated in the Gobi Desert within the past decade. Prepared
and mounted, the creature is 8 feet tall and 24 feet long, with
the body 75 percent complete and the skull 80 percent.  The bidding started at $850,000, after the auctioneer read
the contingency statement to the audience. Two bidders vied for
the fossil, which went to an anonymous telephone bidder for
$875,000, without buyer’s commission, according to David
Herskowitz, director of natural history at  Heritage Auctions .  ‘A Bargain’  “It was a bargain,” he said. “The pre-auction publicity
did scare off a couple of potential bidders.”  On May 18, the Mongolian government ordered an
investigation into the origin of the fossil. Mongolian law
prohibits the export of fossils. “Under Article 175 of
Mongolian criminal law, the export of dinosaur bones and fossils
is a criminal offense,” the government said in its lawsuit. The
Gobi Desert covers parts of Mongolia and  China .  The fossil was initially exported to  Japan , then to
 England , Herskowitz said. It entered the U.S. legally and was
prepared and mounted in the country.  “The purpose of the lawsuit is to compel Heritage Auctions
to disclose who claims to own the skeleton, where the person got
it from and the chain of custody,” said Robert W. Painter, who
filed the lawsuit on behalf of Mongolia’s President Elbegdorj Tsakhia. “The way I read the law, which has been translated
from Mongolian, anything that is excavated in Mongolia is the
property of the state.”  In a statement released as e-mail with the auction house’s
post-sale report, Heritage President Greg Rohan said: “We have
legal assurances from our reputable consignors that the specimen
was obtained legally. As far as we know, the Mongolian
government has not produced any evidence that the piece
originated in its territory, but the final determination will be
up to the American legal system.”  The hearing will take place on June 1 in a district court
in Dallas, Painter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 