-- 
H&R Block Appoints William Cobb CEO as Bennett Retires After Second Term

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-04-26T21:33:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/h-r-block-names-william-c-cobb-president-ceo-of-tax-preparation-company.html
H&R Block Inc. (HRB) , the biggest U.S.
tax preparer, named board member William C. Cobb to be chief
executive officer, replacing Alan Bennett, who is retiring.  Cobb, 54, will take over the Kansas City, Missouri-based
company on May 16, and Bennett will remain on the board through
September, H&R Block said today in a statement. Cobb was
president of EBay Inc.’s U.S. marketplaces division and oversaw
affiliated businesses including online ticket reseller StubHub,
Shopping.com and Rent.com.  “Bill is a seasoned global business executive with a deep
understanding of retailing, franchising, digital and
international business,” Chairman Robert A. Gerard said in the
statement. “Bill’s broad background is right for H&R Block, and
his experience on our board will let him hit the ground
running.”  H&R Block is changing leadership as it seeks to recapture
market share lost to Intuit Inc., the maker of TurboTax, and to
counter the firm’s inability to offer clients refund-
anticipation loans this year. Gerard was appointed chairman last
week, succeeding hedge-fund manager Richard Breeden.  ‘Unplanned Terms’  Bennett, 60, a board member since 2008, is retiring and
returning to his home in  Connecticut  after two “unplanned
terms” as CEO, the company said in the statement. He was
interim chief in 2007 and 2008, before the company reappointed
him to the post last July after Russell P. Smyth resigned to
take another job.  Cobb, who was named to the board in August, was an
executive at PepsiCo Inc. and Yum! Brands Inc. before joining
EBay in 2000 and “has helped build some of the world’s top
brands,” including  Pizza Hut  and Doritos, Gerard said in the
statement.  Breeden, the former head of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission and a senior adviser to Presidents  Ronald Reagan  and  George H.W. Bush , stepped down April 18, more than
three years after seizing control of the company in a proxy
fight. He wants to devote more time to his hedge fund, Breeden
Capital Management, H&R Block said in announcing his departure
in March.  Total tax returns prepared by H&R Block climbed an
annualized 6.1 percent from Nov. 1 through April 18, the company
said today in a separate statement announcing preliminary tax-
season results.  H&R Block slipped 7 cents to $17.81 at 4:15 p.m. today in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. It’s this year’s
third-best performer in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, after
advancing 50 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  