-- 
TA Associates, Summit Partners Agree to Buy Bigpoint on Online-Gaming Boom

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-04-26T06:10:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/ta-associates-summit-partners-agree-to-acquire-bigpoint-on-web-games-boom.html
TA Associates  Inc. and Summit
Partners LP agreed to buy a majority stake in  Bigpoint GmbH ,
 Europe ’s second-largest online games company, betting on booming
demand for games such as “Seafight” and “DarkOrbit.”  The two Boston-based private-equity firms agreed to pay GMT
Communications Partners and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC Peacock Fund
$350 million for a “slight majority” in Bigpoint, said
 Jonathan Meeks , a TA Associates managing director in  London .  The acquisition is the second-largest online-games deal
after  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  acquired Playdom last year for $563.2
million. The market, dominated by games such as Zynga Inc.’s
“FarmVille” on social networking site Facebook, will more than
double to almost $15 billion by 2014, according to researcher
 In-Stat . Hamburg-based Bigpoint offers its games for free and
generates revenue by selling virtual goods, such as better
weapons, usually for less than $1 apiece.  “The Internet gaming companies break down all those
barriers of having to go through retailers, of having to work
with Microsoft or Sony, and allows you to go direct to the
customer,” Meeks said in an interview. “Companies like
Bigpoint are going to be the new leaders” that will in the long
term challenge  Electronic Arts Inc. (ERTS)  and  Activision Blizzard
Inc. (ATVI) , the largest makers of computer games, he said.  NBC and GMT together  acquired  70 percent of Bigpoint in
2008 in a deal that valued the game-maker at 70 million euros
($102 million).  Capturing Value  “It’s definitely one of the better investments that we
made,”  Natalie Tydeman , a partner at GMT Communications in
London, said in an interview. “We weren’t actively seeking
buyers, but we had more and more expressions of interest, and it
got to a level where it made sense to capture some of that
value.” GMT will retain a “significant interest,” she said.  Bigpoint was the world’s fifth-largest maker of 2D games,
and Europe’s second biggest, with estimated sales of $171
million in 2010, according to Arizona-based In-Stat analyst
 Vahid Dejwakh .  The deal values Bigpoint at more than $600 million, making
it the second-largest of its kind after the Playdom transaction,
according to founder and co-Chief Executive Officer Heiko Hubertz, who will keep his 30 percent stake.  Playfish, Playdom  The world’s largest maker of games played on the Internet
is Zynga with estimated sales of $650 million last year,
followed by South Korea’s  NHN Corp. (035420)  and Nexon Corp. Gameforge in
Karlsruhe,  Germany , is the world’s fourth-largest and Europe’s
largest, Dejwakh wrote in a report published in November.
Electronic Arts’s Playfish was ranked sixth and Playdom was
ranked seventh.  NHN added 2.7 percent to 208,500 won at 3:04 p.m. in  Seoul ,
paring the stock’s decline this year to 8.2 percent.  Redwood
City , California-based Electronic Arts has jumped 25 percent
this year and climbed 0.6 percent to $20.54 yesterday in U.S.
trading.  Bigpoint’s European roots could be part of why the
valuation falls short compared with Playdom, Hubertz said in an
interview at the company’s headquarters.  “For our company, they pay a European valuation,” he
said. “American companies, based in Silicon Valley, have a much
higher valuation from the outset, just because they are based in
the U.S. and because that is their main market.”  Discovery Executive  Bigpoint can achieve a higher valuation that eventually
leads to an initial public offering as the company becomes more
visible in the U.S. with a San Francisco office, Hubertz said.
The company is profitable, he said, declining to give figures.  “In the last years we always doubled our revenue,”
Hubertz said. “If we can keep that for the next one or two
years, maybe we can achieve a billion-dollar valuation quite
early and go much earlier on the stock exchange.”  Earlier this month, Bigpoint hired former  Discovery
Communications Inc. (DISCA)  executive Arthur Bastings as co-CEO to help
steer its expansion.  The company wants to make acquisitions to bring its games
to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad tablet and handsets using  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android platform and has ambitions to become one of the top
three online gaming companies. It can spend more than $10
million euros on individual acquisitions, Hubertz said in an
interview in Munich last month.  Montgomery & Co.  was financial adviser to Bigpoint, GMT and
NBC on the deal, and London-based  Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP  was
the legal adviser. Noah Advisors and Kirkland & Ellis LLP acted
for TA Associates and Summit Partners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in
Frankfurt at   rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  