-- 
Abbott Labs Sued on Claim Humira Caused Lasting Nerve Damage

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-04-26T16:05:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/abbott-labs-sued-on-montana-woman-s-claim-humira-caused-nerve-damage.html
Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  was sued on
claims that its top-selling drug Humira caused permanent nerve
damage in the feet of a Montana woman who took it for Crohn’s
disease.  Two doctors who treated Kara Mae Pletan at the Mayo Clinic
in 2008 said the nerve damage in her feet “was most likely due
to Humira,” according to the lawsuit, which was filed today in
state court in  Chicago , near the company’s headquarters in
 Abbott Park ,  Illinois .  The complaint also alleges Abbott knew that Humira, which
had 2010 worldwide sales of $6.5 billion, could cause peripheral
neuropathy before it began marketing the drug to Crohn’s
patients in 2007. Earlier this year, Abbott was sued by two
arthritis sufferers in Texas and  Massachusetts  who claim Humira
gave them cancer.  “Abbott has downplayed the risk of side effects, including
the very real risk of permanent neuropathy,” Andy Vickery,
Pletan’s lawyer, said in an e-mail.  Abbott initially sold Humira in 2003 as a treatment for
rheumatoid arthritis. The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  now
approves Humira for the treatment of five additional autoimmune
diseases, including Crohn’s.  Humira is expected to outsell  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Avastin
cancer medicine by 2016 to become the world’s most lucrative
drug, according to a May 2010 forecast by research company
EvaluatePharma.  Safety Data  “Humira has more than 12 years of clinical and safety data
and best-in-class efficacy,” Adelle Infante, an Abbott
spokeswoman, said in January, after the filing of the first
lawsuit claiming Humira caused a Texas woman’s cancer. “The
therapeutic risks associated with Humira are well known and
documented in the prescribing label.”  Infante today declined to comment on the nerve-damage suit
because Abbott hasn’t read the complaint.  Humira’s full package insert as of July 2004 warned that
patients in clinical trials of similar types of drugs had
developed more cancers than patients receiving other rheumatoid
arthritis treatments. The class of drugs, known as tumor
necrosis factor-blockers, prevent the body’s cancer-killing
cells from working.  “The FDA has yet to focus in on the risk of neuropathy and
other forms of neurological side effects, and Abbott has chosen
to provide little if any information about these risks to either
physicians or patients,” Pletan said in the complaint.  Issued Report  Doctors at Angers University in  France  issued a report in
April 2006 suggesting that Humira could cause peripheral
neuropathy, Pletan said in court papers.  “Abbott was actually aware of this article prior to the
2007 launch for Crohn’s,” she said.  In January, Gayathri Murthy, a Houston hospital worker,
sued Abbott claiming she developed lymphoma while taking Humira
for arthritis in 2005 and 2006. Earlier this month, a
Massachusetts arthritis patient, Maureen Calisi, sued the
company for allegedly causing her lymphoma after she took Humira
from 2003 until 2008. Both cases are pending.  Both Murthy and Calisi are represented by Vickery, of
Vickery, Waldner & Mallia LLP in Houston, who said he has “more
than a dozen clients with legitimate legal claims involving
Humira.”  Months of Injections  Pletan, 32, claims she developed small fiber peripheral
neuropathy after receiving three months of Humira injections in
2008. The resulting “stabbing pains and hypersensitivity” in
her feet forced her to give up outdoor activities and sell her
family’s retail furniture store in Bozeman,  Montana , when she
could no longer work on her feet, she said in her complaint.  “The progression of the nerve damage seems to have
stopped” after ceasing Humira injections, Pletan said in the
filing. The nerve damage “appears to be permanent,” she said.
Pletan is seeking both economic and punitive damages.  The case is Pletan v. Abbott Laboratories, 2011L004270,
Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan , at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  