-- 
Lactalis Makes $4.9 Billion Bid to Acquire Outstanding Shares of Parmalat

-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 
2011-04-26T12:51:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/lactalis-makes-4-9-billion-bid-to-acquire-outstanding-shares-of-parmalat.html
Groupe Lactalis, France’s biggest
cheesemaker, offered to pay 3.38 billion euros ($4.9 billion) in
an unsolicited bid for the 71 percent of  Parmalat SpA (PLT)  it doesn’t
own to create the world’s largest dairy company.  Lactalis will offer 2.60 euros per share, a 12.5 percent
premium to the April 21 closing price, according to a stock-
exchange statement today. Shares of Parmalat, Italy’s biggest
dairy company, jumped as much as 12 percent to the offer price
in Milan.  “We have an ambitious growth plan for Parmalat, making it
the Italian company of reference in the dairy market,” Emmanuel Besnier, Lactalis chairman, said in the statement. The combined
business would have sales of about 14 billion euros and
may also make additional acquisitions, Lactalis said.  Lactalis’s offer came just before Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  met in  Rome 
after bilateral disputes over immigration and corporate
takeovers added strains to European unity. The two leaders
pledged to create large French-Italian companies capable of
competing on global markets and played down Italy’s recent
attempt to thwart Lactalis’s investment in Parmalat.  “I don’t consider Lactalis’s bid as hostile,” Berlusconi
said at a press conference with Sarkozy. The Italian premier
said he favors Italian investors remaining in Parmalat, while
Sarzozy said he’s confident a common “solution” for Parmalat
can be found.  ‘Strategic’  The Laval, France-based company is seeking to take over
Parmalat after buying a stake for 2.80 euros a share from a
group of activist investors, a move that prompted the Italian
government to curtail foreign takeovers. Chief Executive Officer
Enrico Bondi had built up 1.4 billion euros in cash by winning
settlements from the company’s former creditors following
Parmalat’s bankruptcy,  Italy ’s biggest.  After Lactalis’s purchase the Berlusconi government adopted
a series of measures to block Lactalis from transforming its 29
percent stake into management control of Parmalat. Italy last
month authorized the  Finance Ministry  to invest in companies
deemed strategic, including Parmalat. The measures were
announced less than a month after Paris-based LVMH Moet
Hennessey Louis Vuitton SA agreed to buy Rome-based luxury
jeweler Bulgari SpA. Lactalis has pledged to keep Parmalat’s
headquarters and management in Italy.  Counterbid  Investors led by Cassa Depositi e Prestiti SpA, Italy’s
state lender, Intesa Sanpaolo SpA and Mediobanca SpA were
considering bidding for the Parmalat stake not owned by
Lactalis, newspapers have reported. A bid wouldn’t include
Granarolo SpA, Parmalat’s biggest Italian rival, daily la
Repubblica reported today. A spokesman for Intesa Sanpaolo
declined to comment. A spokeswoman for Mediobanca wasn’t
immediately available to comment. A spokesman for Parmalat
declined to comment on the Lactalis announcement.  “We believe that the Lactalis operation is not likely to
be challenged by Italian investors,” said Marco Baccaglio, an
analyst at Cheuvreux who rates the stock “underperform.” A
counterbid by an Italian group “is quite unlikely,” he said.  Lactalis, the maker of President cheese, has made at least
15 purchases since 2005, including the 2006 acquisition of
Italy’s Galbani SpA, according to Bloomberg data. The company
generated about 60 percent of its revenue outside of  France ,
according to its website.  Parmalat shares traded at 2.57 euros as of 2:24 p.m. in
Milan. The stock has jumped 25 percent this year.  Credit Agricole SA, HSBC Holdings Plc, Natixis and Societe
Generale SA will provide funding for the bid for the Italian
dairy company, Lactalis said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  