-- 
Madoff Said From Prison Picower May Have Suspected Fraud, Henriques Writes

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-04-26T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/madoff-said-from-prison-picower-may-have-suspected-fraud-henriques-writes.html
Bernard L. Madoff believed that one
of his billionaire investors, Jeffry Picower, may have suspected
him of running a  Ponzi scheme , according to a book by Diana B. Henriques.  Madoff, serving a 150-year term for the largest Ponzi
scheme in history, said in a prison interview that Picower could
have figured out the fraud at Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC, according to the book. Picower invested
$620 million and withdrew $7.8 billion before Madoff confessed
to his brother and two sons in December 2008. Henriques asked
Madoff who knew of the fraud.  “Picower was the only one that might have,” Madoff said.
“I mean how could he not?”  In “The Wizard of Lies:  Bernard Madoff  and the Death of
Trust,” Henriques chronicles how Madoff stole from thousands of
investors around the world while fooling regulators, banks and
 hedge funds  about his investment returns. She analyzes Madoff’s
deceptive powers, the market forces propelling him, and dozens
of key investors such as Picower.  Picower, a lawyer and accountant, “had a genius for making
money in the stock market, a passion for privacy, and a
willingness to take big risks in pursuit of big rewards,”
Henriques writes.  Picower also had been victimized by a Ponzi scheme in the
1970s, she said. He began investing with Madoff in the late
1970s, controlling dozens of accounts. By the late 1990s,
Picower’s separate trading account at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
was worth $10 billion, she writes.  ‘Exploit the Leverage’  “Was he now astute enough to realize what Madoff was doing
and devious enough to exploit the leverage that knowledge gave
him?,” Henriques writes. “Madoff often suspected that the
answer was yes.”  Picower had a heart attack and drowned in his pool in  Palm
Beach ,  Florida , in October 2009 at age 67. He wasn’t charged
with a crime, although the bankruptcy trustee recovering money
for Madoff’s victims,  Irving Picard , sued him for $7.2 billion.  Last December, Picower’s widow, Barbara, agreed to forfeit
the entire $7.2 billion to victims. She said she wanted to
resume her philanthropic gifts, and she was “absolutely
confident that my husband Jeffry was in no way complicit in
Madoff’s fraud.”  Madoff told Henriques that he helped Picower avoid income
taxes on short-term stock trades in the 1980s. Still, Picower
was among Madoff’s big investors who withdrew money after the
1987 stock market crash, putting the firm in a cash bind and
possibly setting the stage for the Ponzi scheme, Henriques
writes.  Private Jet Flights  While Picower and his wife shared dinners and private jet
flights with Madoff and his wife, the friendship was a sham,
Madoff said. In the first of two prison interviews, Madoff said:
“Picower had no friends. He was a very strange person. It was
always a very tense relationship.”  The Picowers withdrew $400 million from Madoff’s fund in
1997, $500 million in 1998, $600 million in 1999, and $3.4
billion from 2000 to 2003. One of the “deepest mysteries” is
why Madoff didn’t dump Picower, who was “shrewd enough to know
that he shouldn’t leave his possibly fictional profits in
Madoff’s hands for very long,” writes Henriques, a reporter for
the  New York  Times.  “Perhaps he simply figured that he’d continue to milk
Madoff’s fraud-fed accounts until the money finally ran out,
knowing that Madoff had no choice but to let him do so,” she
writes.  ‘Keep Him Attached’  “I had to keep him attached to me,” Madoff told the
author.  Henriques writes of “separating the villains from the
victims, the knaves from the fools” in the Madoff affair. “If
Picower was numbered among the fools, he became one of the
richest fools in the crowd -- richer, by far, than the people
who were certainly villains, including Madoff himself,” she
writes.  William Zabel, Picower’s attorney, said U.S. prosecutors
and Picard didn’t find any illegal conduct by Picower or proof
of his complicity in the fraud.  “If he was so smart, he wouldn’t have left several billion
dollars, including his entire charitable foundation money, with
Madoff,” Zabel, who remains an attorney for  Barbara Picower  and
her husband’s estate, said in an interview. “I believe that Mr.
Picower did not know that Madoff was running a Ponzi scheme.”  Wife, Sons  Henriques concludes that three members of Madoff’s family
-- his wife Ruth, and his sons Andrew and Mark -- weren’t
villains even though they were demonized by the public. The sons
worked at the firm and were stunned by his confession in
December 2008, Henriques writes.  Ruth was 18 when she married Madoff in 1959. Her father was
an accountant who helped Madoff, then a young stock broker,
raise $30,000 to conceal losses in customer accounts.  Henriques writes that Madoff’s family was unfairly
pilloried after Madoff’s arrest in 2008.  “No one seriously disputed that Madoff had successfully
and repeatedly hidden his crime from regulators, foreign
accounting firms, hedge fund due-diligence teams, and his
savviest professional investors,” she writes.  “Why was it so implausible that he had hidden it from his
wife, who had no official role at the firm, and from his sons,
who worked in a separate part of the business and learned only
as much about his private, closely held investment management
business as Madoff chose to tell them?”  “Motive to Flee’  She said that while the sons had “the opportunity, the
means, and the motive to flee,” they didn’t do so, and they
weren’t charged with a crime. Madoff’s younger brother, Peter,
who spent almost four decades at the firm, is a subject of the
investigation by federal prosecutors in New York, according to
court papers in a federal lawsuit by the foundation of U.S.
Senator  Frank Lautenberg  of  New Jersey  and his children. The
Lautenberg family and the fund seek $9 million in that lawsuit.  Picard sued Madoff’s wife, sons and other family members,
seeking almost $200 million of victims’ money he claims that
they spent.  Mark Madoff committed suicide on Dec. 11, the two-year
anniversary of his father’s arrest.  Ruth Madoff  forfeited $80 million in assets.  Henriques says Ruth Madoff told a source, “I had a love
affair with someone for fifty years -- I couldn’t abandon him,
even though he had committed a terrible crime. If you had a
grown child who committed a terrible crime, what would you do?
Would you abandon him?”  “So she stayed,” Henriques writes, “apparently staggered
by the crime but somehow unable to desert the man who had
committed it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  