-- 
Aflac Hires McKeague to Replace Gottfried as Duck Mascot’s Voice

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-04-26T20:45:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/aflac-hires-mckeague-to-replace-gottfried-as-duck-mascot-s-voice.html
Aflac Inc. (AFL) , the biggest seller of
supplemental health insurance, hired the sales manager from a
Minneapolis radio station to replace Gilbert Gottfried as the
voice of the company’s duck mascot in the U.S.  Dan McKeague, 36, of Hugo,  Minnesota , will make his debut
as the duck’s voice in an ad to be posted today on the Internet,
the Columbus, Georgia-based insurer said today in a statement.  Aflac reviewed more than 12,500 live and online auditions
for the role after firing Gottfried last month, the insurer said
in the statement. The comedian was dismissed after posting
messages on Twitter that made light of the flooding in Japan
after a March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  Japan  is Aflac’s
biggest market.  The job involves more than “just getting behind a
microphone and yelling ‘Aflac’ over and over,” McKeague said in
an interview. The role, which he described as that of a
spokesman or “spokes-duck,” requires “doing interviews, doing
appearances and continuing to be an upstanding citizen.”  Aflac launched the duck campaign in 2000 to elevate
awareness of its supplemental insurance, according to a July
2010 statement from the company. The duck had appeared in 50
television commercials, the insurer said at the time. The hiring
was previously reported by the  Associated Press .  McKeague, who practiced different inflections of the
insurer’s name during his drive to work, said he tried to keep
his voice similar to Gottfried’s, so that “the transition
wouldn’t be as noticeable.”  Aflac had narrowed its list to 20 finalists, each of whom 
was called back for a second audition. The number of candidates
was then trimmed to eight before McKeague was selected.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  