-- 
Haitong to ‘Pay What’s Needed’ to Lure Hong Kong Bankers from Global Firms

-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-04-26T00:58:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/haitong-to-pay-what-s-needed-to-lure-global-firms-bankers.html
Haitong International Securities
Group Ltd. (665) , a unit of  China ’s biggest brokerage, is “willing to
pay what’s needed” to lure bankers from U.S. and European firms
as it seeks to double its investment-banking workforce, said
incoming Chief Executive Officer Lin Yong.  Haitong International, created after Haitong Securities Co.
bought Hong Kong’s Taifook Securities Co. in 2009, aims to boost
its 75-person investment banking division by 50 percent to 100
percent, joint Managing Director Lin said in an April 20
interview. Lin will become the Hong Kong-based company’s CEO
after a  shareholders’ meeting  on April 29.  “We want to hire the highest-ranking bankers,” Lin said.
“I’m willing to pay what’s needed to get bankers from European
and U.S. investment banks.” The firm plans to start a fixed-
income team and add bankers to its corporate finance,
institutional sales and research groups, he added.  Haitong and Chinese rivals such as ICBC International
Holdings Ltd. are trying to take market share from  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in Hong Kong, where the value of
stock sales surged to a record last year. Companies including
Prada SpA plan about $20 billion of initial stock sales in the
city in the three months through June, which would be a record
for a second quarter in the city, Bloomberg data show.  Four Chinese firms -- BOC International Holdings Ltd.,
Citic Securities Co., BoCom International Ltd. and China
International Capital Corp. -- are among the top 10 underwriters
of stock sales in Hong Kong this year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Hui Xian IPO  Haitong Securities, based in Shanghai, said yesterday that
first-quarter profit jumped 17 percent to 1.19 billion yuan
($182 million), bolstered by its underwriting business. The
company, which was suspended from trading in Shanghai on April
21, today said it plans to sell shares in Hong Kong, joining
Chinese rival Citic Securities.  Hong Kong will have more regular sales of yuan-denominated
shares as offshore deposits of the currency increase, K. C. Chan,
the city’s secretary for financial services and the treasury,
said in an interview last week. The first yuan IPO, a listing of
billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s Hui Xian Real Estate Investment Trust,
will start trading this week after raising $1.6 billion.  Lin said yuan financial products will take over from “Made
in China” manufactured goods as “China’s biggest contribution
to the world economy” in the coming decade. Haitong’s local
knowledge allows it to play a “more active role” in bringing
companies to market, he said.  Idea Exchange  “Our investment banking arm has been exchanging ideas with
many clients on whether they should proceed with traditional
IPOs or yuan IPOs,” he said. “Many new businesses tend to grow
slowly and in a cautious manner at the beginning. Once they are
developed, the growth will accelerate.”  Goldman Sachs is the top-ranked underwriter of equity in
Hong Kong this year, followed by HSBC Holdings Plc, Bloomberg
data show. Haitong, which was 26th last year, hasn’t arranged
any sales so far in 2011, according to the data. Haitong
Securities ranks fourth in arranging share offerings in  Shanghai 
and Shenzhen this year.  ICBC International, the securities unit of the world’s
largest bank by market value, plans to hire more people from
global rivals, Mary MacLeod, who joined the firm from Deutsche
Bank AG in January, said in an interview in February.  Lin didn’t specify which rival banks he plans to hire from.  Record Offerings  Matching the pay offered by firms like New York-based
Goldman Sachs and Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank has been a major
obstacle for Chinese securities companies trying to expand,
executives and headhunters have said. UBS and HSBC Holdings Plc
are among global companies that have said stiffer competition
for bankers in  Asia  has driven up pay, squeezing margins.  Competition from Chinese securities firms has helped push
fees lower, investment bankers have said. The average fee from
underwriting share sales in  Hong Kong  is 2.36 percent this year,
Bloomberg data show. While that marked a recovery from last
year’s 2.19 percent, it is below the average 2.75 percent over
the preceding decade, according to the data.  Haitong’s biggest Hong Kong deal was the HK$31.2 billion
($4 billion) offering by of China Minsheng Banking Corp. in
November 2009. The transaction vaulted it to 14th place among
underwriters that year, Bloomberg data show.  At least 10,000 Chinese companies are considering going
public, mostly in Shanghai or Shenzhen, Lin said, adding that
some IPOs will rival the size of Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.,
which raised a record $22.1 billion in Hong Kong and Shanghai
last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net .
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  