-- 
Amazon.com Forecast Misses Estimates After Spending Growth

-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 
2011-04-26T21:18:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/amazon-falls-after-forecasting-quarterly-operating-profit-below-estimates.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s
largest online retailer, forecast lower second-quarter operating
profit than analysts predicted as it builds warehouses and
promotes its Kindle electronic-book reader.  Operating income, which excludes taxes and interest, will
be $95 million to $245 million this quarter, the Seattle-based
company said today in a statement. Analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg expected, on average, operating income of $369.5
million.  This is the fourth straight quarter that Amazon Chief
Executive Officer Jeff Bezos has reported operating profit that
missed estimates as he uses the company’s growing cash hoard to
build distribution centers, expand online video-streaming
services and promote the Kindle.  “It’s not a given that all the spending will drive future
earnings at a robust pace,” said Fred Moran, an analyst with
Benchmark Co. in  Boca Raton ,  Florida , in an interview today.
“It’s entirely possible they spend all this money and don’t get
a dramatic return for it.”  Amazon shares were little changed at $181.85 as of 5 p.m.
 New York  time in extended Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Earlier,
the stock declined $3.12 to close at $182.30.  ‘Soft Guidance’  “It’s surprising the stock is not down more given the
extent of the miss on the earnings and the soft operating
guidance,” Moran said.  Sales in the first quarter rose 38 percent to $9.86
billion, beating the $9.54 billion average prediction of
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Net income was $201 million, or 44 cents a share. That
compared with 61 cents that analysts predicted. Amazon doesn’t
forecast net income.  Amazon more than doubled capital expenditures to $979
million last year and will spend about $900 million this year as
part of its effort to expand warehouses and data centers,
according to January estimates from  James Mitchell , an analyst
at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  As it expands, Amazon is running into disputes with states
including  California , New York and  North Carolina , which want to
collect sales tax from it. Amazon has facilities in about 20
states, said Heath Terry, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity, in a
report yesterday. Amazon has said it only charges a sales tax in
 five states .  Amazon may miss out on as much as $520 million in revenue
this year if a change in U.S. policy forces it to collect sales
taxes, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Such a law may
curb about $7 billion in domestic online purchases, the data
show.  Online Bookseller  The company got its start in 1995 as an online bookseller.
It has since expanded into thousands of products -- from DVDs to
baby clothes. Amazon Web Services, which lets customers rent
computer capacity to house data and run computer applications,
may one day be as big as the retail business, the company has
said.  Amazon may have sold more than 8 million Kindles last year,
accounting for about 5 percent of sales, according to Benchmark
Co. The device is its best-selling product. Amazon doesn’t
disclose Kindle sales figures.  EBay Inc. (EBAY) , owner of the world’s biggest online retail
marketplace, reports its quarterly financial results tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Galante in  San Francisco  at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  