-- 
Taming Brazil CPI Requires ‘Prolonged’ Effort, Tombini Says

-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   K a t i a   C o r t e s
-- 
2011-04-26T20:32:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/taming-brazil-cpi-requires-prolonged-effort-tombini-says-2-.html
Brazil ’s central bank President
Alexandre Tombini said that slowing inflation back to target
next year will require a “prolonged” and incisive effort.
Yields on longer-dated interest rate future contracts extended
declines.  “The issue of bringing inflation back to the target will
require a prolonged effort by the government, by the central
bank certainly,” Tombini said at an event in Brasilia today.
“This has been determined and will be pursued in a consistent
and incisive way.”  Brazilian policy makers in a less than unanimous vote last
week slowed the pace of rate increases, after raising borrowing
costs a full percentage point at their past two meetings.
President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government is relying on a mix of
higher borrowing costs, steps to curb credit and currency
inflows and spending cuts in a bid to bring inflation from the
fastest pace in 29 months back to target in 2012.  Speaking at the same event today in Brasilia, Rousseff said
her administration was ready to take the necessary measures to
tame inflation, and Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said the
government had to use “all weapons” to rein in consumer
prices. The comments signaled Rousseff’s economic team is not at
ease with inflation,  Diego Donadio , Latin America strategist at
BNP Paribas in  Sao Paulo , said.  ‘Hawkish’  Yields on interest rate futures maturing January 2014 fell
10 basis points to 12.75 percent at 4:06 p.m. New York time. The
contract, which rose two basis points earlier in the day, fell
as much as 12 basis points after the comments by Rousseff,
Mantega and Tombini.  “It lifted the feeling that inflation would quicken and
nobody would do anything,” Donadio said in a phone interview.
“The speech was hawkish.”  Still, Donadio said he has some reservations about the
speech given that the central bank’s decision to slow the pace
of interest rate increase to a quarter point from a half point
“isn’t incisive.”  Policy makers raised the overnight rate to 12 percent from
11.75 percent April 20. Forty-one economists surveyed by
Bloomberg expected a half-point increase, 15 projected a 0.25-
point increase and two forecast a rate pause.  Dual Challenge  Brazil targets annual inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or
minus two percentage points. Inflation will surpass the upper
limit of the target between July and August, as the central bank
uses the range to accommodate price shocks, Carlos Hamilton, the
bank’s director of economic policy, said last month.  Consumer prices as measured by the IPCA-15 index rose 6.44
percent in the year through mid-April, the national statistics
agency said last week. Brazil’s mid-month inflation rate rose
0.77 percent in April from March.  Tombini said the central bank faces a dual challenge of
reining in consumer prices while dealing with “intensive
foreign capital inflows,” which help fuel inflation. He also
said that broad international liquidity adds to inflationary
pressures in Brazil. “Unfortunately, the inflationary impact of
the capital inflows can’t be dealt through  interest rates ,”
Tombini said.  Brazil has chosen so-called macro-prudential measures, such
as higher taxes on foreign loans and bond sales abroad, as the
adequate tools to deal with foreign capital inflows, Tombini
said in the speech today.  ‘Weapons’  Consumer prices in Brazil are being fueled by a jump in
commodity prices and by domestic factors as well, Tombini said
today. Services inflation has remained high, reflecting a heated
economy, he said.  “We should not spare weapons,” Mantega said today. “We
need to use all possible weapons against inflation, be it
monetary weapons, be it fiscal weapons.”  The central government announced today a wider-than-
expected surplus before interest payment in March, a figure that
also eased bets in the futures market that the government isn’t
doing enough to control inflation, Donadio said.  The primary surplus widened to 9.1 billion reais ($5.8
billion), compared with a median estimate of 8.2 billion reais
in a Bloomberg survey of 13 analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net 
Katia Cortes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 kcortes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  