-- 
Manchester United Closes on Champions League Final With 2-0 Win at Schalke

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-04-26T23:15:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/manchester-united-closes-on-champions-league-final-with-2-0-win-at-schalke.html
Manchester United  dominated Schalke
to close on a third appearance in four seasons in European
soccer’s Champions League final.  Ryan Giggs  and  Wayne Rooney  scored as United won 2-0 last
night to open the two-game semifinal in Gelsenkirchen,  Germany .
The goals came two minutes apart in the second half after
Schalke goalkeeper Manuel Neuer repeatedly denied United.  “We created enough chances in the first half to be four,
five up,” Giggs told Sky Sports. “Before the game we would
have taken 2-0, but now we are slightly disappointed.”  United hosts the return match at Old Trafford in seven
days. The Red Devils are seeking to play in the final, which is
scheduled for May 28 at Wembley Stadium in  London , for a fifth
time. United became European champion for a third time in 2008
and lost the final the following year to Barcelona.  Record nine-time champion Real Madrid opens the other
semifinal tonight in the Spanish capital against archrival and
three-time winner Barcelona.  Andres Iniesta  will miss the game
with a calf injury, Barcelona coach Josep Guardiola said on the
club’s website. Guardiola didn’t say whether the injury will
keep Iniesta out of the return match on May 3.  United had 65 percent of possession at the Arena AufSchalke
last night and put 10 of its 18 shot attempts on target. The
winning margin could have been higher if not for Neuer’s eight
saves, United manager  Alex Ferguson  said.  ‘Finest Display’  “He was fantastic,” Ferguson told reporters. “In my time
at United it was probably the finest display of goalkeeping
against us.”  Neuer is a target of Ferguson to replace Edwin van der Sar,
who will retire at the end of the season, the Sun reported March
30. Arsenal, United’s next opponent, is also keen to sign the
German national team keeper, the  Daily Mail  reported April 9.  Van der Sar made the first save of the game after 29
seconds to deny Alexander Baumjohann. Neuer then stopped
attempts from Rooney, Park Ji-Sung,  Javier Hernandez , Fabio da
Silva and Giggs, while Hernandez also shot wide twice.  United continued to attack and Hernandez was once again
stopped by Neuer while Park’s follow up shot off the rebound was
blocked by Atsuto Uchida. Da Silva then sent a shot over the
crossbar and Neuer came off his line to save against Giggs
before halftime.  ‘Threatened’  “They threatened with every attack and we had  Manuel Neuer 
to thank for not being one, two or even three goals down at
halftime,” Schalke coach Ralf Rangnick told reporters.
“There’s no better goalkeeper in  Europe  or anywhere else.”  Neuer pushed Michael Carrick’s header over for a corner
kick early in the second half and Giggs shot wide. Ferguson said
a key moment came in the 51st minute, when Hernandez beat Neuer,
only for the goal to be ruled offside.  “That told the players they could beat this goalkeeper,”
the coach said.  United broke through in the 67th minute. Rooney found
Giggs, who ran between two defenders to fire a shot by Neuer.
Hernandez and Rooney combined two minutes later to beat Neuer
again from about 12 yards out (11 meters).  To advance, Schalke will have to end United’s 29 game
unbeaten home run going back more than a year. Schalke, which is
in the semifinals for the first time, eliminated defending
champion Inter Milan in the last round by winning the away match
5-2.  “We can’t take them lightly,” Rooney said. “We need to
make sure we are professional and fully concentrated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 