-- 
AngloGold, African Barrick in ‘Advanced’ Talks on Tax Refunds in Tanzania

-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 
2011-04-26T10:03:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/anglogold-african-barrick-in-advanced-talks-on-tax-refunds-in-tanzania.html
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) ,  African
Barrick Gold Ltd. (ABG)  and other miners of the precious metal are
in “advanced” talks with Tanzania’s government about a $273.9
million  tax refund , the Chamber of Minerals and Energy said.  Tanzanian  tax policy  for the  mining industry  provides for
a refund of duties on fuel used to generate electricity to
power gold mines, as well as value-added tax, or VAT. Miners
are claiming about 60 percent of the total amount in
refundable fuel duties and 40 percent from VAT, said Godvictor
Lyimo, chairman of the finance committee at the chamber.  “Engagements with government to resolve the matter are at
advanced stages,” Lyimo said in an interview on April 20 from
Dar es Salaam, Tanzania’s commercial capital. “Government has
shown good will to resolve it.”  Tanzania is  Africa ’s fourth-biggest gold producer,
according to data on the U.S. Geological Survey’s  website .
 South Africa ,  Ghana  and  Mali  are the largest producers on the
continent. Exports of the metal from Tanzania jumped 22
percent to $1.6 billion in the year through February, the Bank
of Tanzania said last month.  Mining companies in Tanzania say the taxes owed to them
have accumulated since 2002. The  Tanzania Revenue Authority 
confirmed negotiations are continuing.  “We are in talks with the miners, but cannot give you
figures of payments from our taxpayers,” Protas Mmanda, the
authority’s director for taxpayer education, said in a phone
interview.  Refund Claims  AngloGold, the world’s third-biggest gold miner, is
claiming $62 million in refundable fuel duties and $49 million
in VAT from Tanzania’s government, according to its 2010
annual report. African Barrick, which operates four mines in
the country, is owed $121 million, its annual report shows.  “ABG has been actively involved in discussions with the
Tanzanian government and the Tanzanian Revenue Authority to
resolve the status of fuel exercise levies and VAT refunds for
its operations,” African Barrick said. “These issues have been
outstanding for some time and were further complicated by
amendments made to certain tax laws.”  In 2009, the Tanzanian government amended its tax laws
requiring miners to pay VAT on all purchases. Previously,
miners where allowed VAT relief because of the volume of their
orders. Government then had to refund the bills after every 30
days. The state also relieved gold miners of duties on fuel
for generating power.  Fuel Consumption  The industry consumes about 13.5 million liters (3.57
million gallons) of fuel per month, while gold-mining
companies estimate fuel accounts for 30 percent of their
operating cost, Lyimo said.  “Our position at the chamber is that government should
move fast in resolving the matter because holding that money
is constraining the companies’ cash flows,” he said. “That
amount of money can start a new mine.”  Tanzanian President Jakaya Kikwete said last month that
the country’s mining operations expanded at an average rate of
12 percent over the past decade, making it the country’s
fastest-growing industry. Mining accounts for one-third of
Tanzania’s foreign-exchange earnings and generates 2.3 percent
of its gross domestic product, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in  Dar es Salaam  via Nairobi at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 