-- 
Apple, Google Questioned by U.S. Lawmakers on Location-Tracking Technology

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 
2011-04-26T06:29:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/apple-google-questioned-by-u-s-lawmakers-on-location-tracking-technology.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  were
among six companies that drew inquiries from U.S. lawmakers
seeking to determine whether their products breach privacy rules
by tracking, storing and sharing user locations.  Five Republican lawmakers sent letters yesterday to the
companies with questions ranging from how they store location
data on mobile device systems to who can access it and whether
it’s transmitted through third parties, the House Energy and
Commerce Committee said on its  website . U.S. Senator Al Franken,
a Minnesota Democrat,  invited  Apple and Google executives to a
May 10 hearing on mobile device privacy.  The inquiries follow a report this month by a former Apple
software engineer and a university researcher that said Apple
software raises security and privacy concerns by collecting
coordinates along with the dates and times the points are
visited. The report prompted investigations by regulators in
 France ,  Germany ,  Italy  and  South Korea .  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, didn’t return a call
seeking comment. Chris Gaither, a spokesman for Google, declined
to comment on the House committee actions.  “We provide users with notice and control over the
collection, sharing and use of location in order to provide a
better mobile experience on Android devices," Google said
yesterday. "Any location data that is sent back to Google
location servers is anonymized and is not tied or traceable to a
specific user.”  Apple Software  Alasdair Allan, a senior research fellow in astronomy at
the U.K.’s University of Exeter, and former Apple software
engineer Pete Warden in an April 20 report said the information
tracked by Apple software can total tens of thousands of data
points and isn’t encrypted. There is no evidence it is being
shared, according to their report.  Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan asked Apple and
Google executives to meet her to discuss reports that their
products collect, store and can relay information about users’
locations, according to the her office yesterday.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , is the maker of
iPhone mobile telephones and iPad tablet computers, each of
which was cited in the attorney general’s statement, as was the
Android software developed by Google for use in mobile phones.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  