-- 
Arch Boosts 2011 Guidance After Beating Analyst Estimates

-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 
2011-04-26T20:17:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/arch-coal-reports-first-quarter-profit-on-higher-coal-price-1-.html
Arch Coal Inc. (ACI) , the second-biggest
U.S. coal producer, lifted its earnings forecast for 2011 after
it reported first-quarter profit of $55.9 million on higher
prices for the fuel and steelmaking ingredient.  Net income was 34 cents a share, compared with a loss of
$1.8 million, or 1 cent, a year earlier, St. Louis-based Arch
said today in a statement. The company was expected to earn 29
cents, according to the median of six analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Revenue gained 23 percent to $872.9 million.  The company, led by Chief Executive Officer Steven Leer,
58, increased its earnings forecast for the full year on higher
metallurgical coal demand. Arch said it expects earnings per
diluted share of between $2.03 and $2.52, and earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to range between
$930 million and $1.05 billion.  “Margins actually expanded across the board,” said  Jeremy Sussman , an analyst at Brean Murray Carret & Co. in  New York .
“The biggest jump came in their central Appalachian operations,
which is on the back of strong metallurgical coal prices in a
tight market.”  Arch rose 19 cents, or 0.6 percent, to $34.01 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained 22
percent in the past year.  Jacobs Ranch  Last year the company’s performance was hindered by costs
related to its Jacobs Ranch acquisition and a loss in its
trading operation. Metallurgical coal prices soared 74 percent
to $225 a ton in the first quarter from a year earlier,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  That variety is used to produce steel, while the thermal
form of the fuel is consumed by utilities to generate
electricity.  The company said that it restarted longwall operations at
its Mountain Laurel mine in mid-April. Arch said that it
encountered geological challenges at the mine, which produces
the steelmaking grade.  “It was good to see the Mountain Laurel mine restart on
time because that is their flagship coal mine,” Sussman said.  The company’s cash margin per ton jumped 41 percent to
$6.05, it said.  Arch will devote as much as $410 million for  capital
expenditures , it said.  The company said in a January forecast that it expects to
sell 155 million to 160 million tons of coal this year, as much
as 3.9 percent lower than the 161.3 million sold in 2010.  Metallurgical Coal  The company is planning to sell at least 7.5 million tons
into the metallurgical market, Leer said.  That could approach 8 million tons by 2012 as the company
increases output at its eastern mines, John Eaves, Arch’s
president and chief operating officer, said on a conference call
with analysts and investors.  Leer said Arch is working to expand thermal coal exports
and to establish ports on the U.S. West Coast to ship its coal
from  Wyoming ’s Powder River Basin.  U.S. producers industrywide may reach 105 million tons this
year, which would be the highest level since the “early
1990s,” Leer said.  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) , also based in  St. Louis , is the
largest U.S. coal producer.  (Arch held a conference call with analysts and investors
beginning at 11 a.m. New York time. To access a Webcast of the
call, go to  http://investor.archcoal.com .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  