-- 
Asian Currencies Weaken, led by Rupiah, After Middle East Violence Worsens

-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 
2011-04-26T08:27:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/asian-currencies-weaken-led-by-rupiah-after-middle-east-violence-worsens.html
Asian currencies weakened, led by
 Indonesia ’s rupiah and South Korea’s won, after political
violence in the Middle East intensified, sapping demand for
emerging-market assets.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia-Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-traded currencies excluding the yen, touched a
one-week low after Syrian security forces attacked the city of
Daraa yesterday, killing at least 20 people, in a bid to crush
anti-government protests. The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of
regional equities dropped by the most in a week.  “The regional stock declines seem to be putting some
downward pressure on the Asian currencies,” said Tetsuo Yoshikoshi, a Singapore-based senior economist at Sumitomo
Mitsui Banking Corp. “Investors may be a little bit risk averse
in the very short term.”  The rupiah slid 0.5 percent to 8,650 per dollar as of 3:18
p.m. in Jakarta, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
won dropped 0.5 percent to 1,086.30,  Thailand ’s baht fell 0.3
percent to 29.99 and the Philippine peso declined 0.2 percent to
43.278.  The rupiah weakened the most in a month on speculation the
central bank intervened to curb gains that may hurt exports and
amid concern U.S. economic growth is slowing.  Gross domestic product in the U.S. rose at a 2 percent
annual pace in the first three months of the year from the
previous quarter, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg before data due April 28. That compared
with a 3.1 percent annualized gain in the fourth quarter.  ‘Investors Are Cautious’  “ Bank Indonesia  fears that if the currency appreciates too
fast it may reduce the country’s export competitiveness,” said
Mika Martumpal, a currency analyst at PT Bank Commonwealth in
Jakarta. “Investors are cautious as we’re expecting a lot of
important data this week” from the U.S., he said.  South Korea ’s won dropped the most in two weeks after the
country’s financial regulator said it will audit holdings of
currency derivatives at four banks, fanning concern trading
curbs will be stepped up to limit bets on appreciation.  The  Financial Supervisory Service  will inspect transactions
conducted by the local branches of Credit Agricole SA and ING
Groep NV for four days starting today, while Woori Bank and
Standard Chartered First Bank Korea Ltd. will be investigated
from May 2, Doh Bo Eun, head of the regulator’s foreign-exchange
coordination team, said yesterday.  “There are concerns the authorities will impose financial
regulation after they warned of rising short-term debt,” said
Cho Young Bok, a currency dealer at Daegu Bank in  Seoul .
“Anxiety over further regulatory moves is keeping the won
low.”  Import Costs  India ’s rupee fell for a third day, the longest losing
streak since January, on speculation rising global commodity
prices will boost the nation’s import costs. The currency
dropped 0.1 percent to 44.54 per dollar.  “Dollar demand from commodity importers is getting
stronger as we approach the end of the month,” said Sudarshan Bhatt, chief currency trader at  Corporation Bank  in Mumbai.
“The correction in stocks is a negative too.”  Elsewhere,  Taiwan ’s dollar was little changed at NT$28.939
against its U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc.
Malaysia’s ringgit was little changed at 2.9903 and  Singapore ’s
dollar weakened 0.1 percent to S$1.2346.  China ’s yuan
strengthened 0.01 percent to 6.5269.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Qayum in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  