-- 
Asia Faces ‘Serious Setback’ on Rising Food Costs, ADB Says

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-04-26T01:00:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/asia-faces-serious-setback-on-rising-food-costs-adb-says.html
Asia  faces a “serious setback”
from surging oil and food prices that are fueling inflation and
threatening to push millions into extreme poverty, the  Asian
Development Bank  said.  The region’s growth may be reduced by as much as 1.5
percentage points should the pace of gains in oil and food
prices seen so far this year persist for the rest of 2011, the
Manila-based lender said in a  statement  today. Domestic food
inflation in many Asian economies has averaged 10 percent this
year, an increase in prices that may push an additional 64
million people into extreme poverty, defined as living on less
than $1.25 a day, it said.  Policy makers from  China  to India and Singapore are
stepping up the fight against inflation through interest rate
increases or currency appreciation as political unrest in the
Middle East boosts crude oil prices. The pattern of “higher and
more volatile” food prices is also likely to continue in the
short term amid declining grain stocks, the ADB said.  “To avert this looming crisis it is important for
countries to refrain from imposing export bans on food items,
while strengthening social safety nets,” ADB chief economist
Rhee Chang Yong said in the statement accompanying a report on
global food inflation today. “Efforts to stabilize  food
production  should take center stage, with greater investments in
agricultural infrastructure to increase crop production and
expand storage facilities, to better ensure grain produce is not
wasted.”  Growth Forecasts  The ADB this month raised its 2011 economic growth forecast
for the region and said policy makers should consider  capital
controls  and more flexible currencies as part of their
inflation-fighting strategies. Asia excluding  Japan  will grow
7.8 percent in 2011, it predicts.  “Food prices had been expected to continue a gradual
ascent in the wake of the sharp spike in 2008,” the ADB said.
“Fast and persistent increases in the cost of many Asian food
staples since the middle of last year, coupled with crude oil
reaching a 31-month high in March, are a serious setback for the
region which has rebounded rapidly and strongly from the global
economic crisis.”  Oil traded at $111.57 a barrel today, and has climbed 22
percent this year. Corn prices have risen 90 percent while wheat
and soybeans are more than 40 percent higher on global commodity
futures markets in the past year. Rice futures surged to a two-
month high on the Chicago Board of Trade yesterday.  “For poor families in developing Asia, who already spend
more than 60 percent of their income on food, higher food prices
further reduce their ability to pay for medical care and their
children’s education,” Rhee said. “Left unchecked, the food
crisis will badly undermine recent gains in poverty reduction
made in Asia.”  Rising consumption in more populous and wealthier
developing countries, competing uses for food grains, shrinking
available agricultural land, and stagnant or declining crop
yields will also spur prices, the ADB said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in  Singapore  at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  