-- 
Australia Open to China Investment, Seeks Return Favor, PM Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-26T11:17:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/australia-open-to-china-investment-seeks-return-favor-pm-says.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  told an audience including government ministers in
Beijing that her country welcomes investment from  China , and
urged her hosts to make it easier for foreign companies to do
business there.  “Chinese investment is welcome in  Australia , as is shown
by the steady stream of proposals approved by our Foreign
Investment Review Board,” Gillard said at an Australia-China
economic and co-operation trade forum in the Chinese capital
today. “And Australia seeks more investment opportunities
offshore, including in China.”  Australia’s national interests “demand” that the
relationship with China remains positive, even in the face of
disagreements over areas such as human rights, she said. China
buys a quarter of all Australian exports, while trade between
the two generated income equivalent to more than $10,000 per
Australian household last year, she said. Australia is China’s
seventh-largest trading partner, she said.  “Australia has 72 major resource projects at an advanced
stage of development, worth around $130 billion,” Gillard told
the audience, which included China’s Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  and
Commerce Minister  Chen Deming . “Many involve Chinese
companies.”  Gillard said decades of government liberalization of
Australia’s financial system, currency and trade regime have
left the country in a strong position to deliver sustainable
growth. She urged China to continue opening its economy and
improve the rule of law to encourage investment by foreign
companies.  Clear Rules Needed  “A clear, reliable legal and regulatory regime would be a
major benefit that would provide a further boost to our economic
partnership,” she said.  Vice Premier Li told the forum before Gillard spoke that
Australia should help to facilitate purchases by Chinese state-
owned enterprises and that the relationship between the two
countries should move beyond trade to include investment.  Australia in April 2009 imposed conditions on a $1.2
billion bid by China Minmetals Group, the nation’s biggest
trader of metals, to buy most of OZ Minerals Ltd.’s mines. The
FIRB in 2009 blocked state-owned China Non-Ferrous Metal Mining
(Group) Co.’s A$252 million ($270 million) bid for Lynas Corp.
because it would threaten supply to non-Chinese buyers of rare
earth minerals used in hybrid vehicles,  wind turbines  and
missile-guidance systems.  Gillard said talks on an FTA had yielded little. “Progress
in five years of our negotiations so far has been slow,” she
said. “We need to do better.” Li said China supports a free
trade agreement with Australia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  