-- 
AutoNation Lowers U.S. Automobile Sales Outlook on Limited Japanese Supply

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-04-26T20:44:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/autonation-profit-rises-26-as-new-car-sales-top-industry-1-.html
AutoNation Inc. (AN) , the largest U.S.
auto retailer, lowered its forecast for 2011 light-vehicle sales
in the country because of Japan-related supply constraints.  U.S. new-vehicle sales may be in the mid-12 million range
this year, down from a previous forecast of about 12.8 million,
because of last month’s earthquake in Japan, Fort Lauderdale,
Florida-based AutoNation said today in a statement. AutoNation
also said first-quarter profit climbed 26 percent as its new-
vehicle sales outpaced the industry.  Shipments from Japan-based automakers such as  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor Co. will be significantly reduced
beginning in May and through the end of the year, said Mike Jackson, AutoNation’s chief executive officer. While U.S.
companies such as  Ford Motor Co. (F)  will achieve their original
targets for full-year output, parts shortages will prevent them
from boosting production, he said.  “That means there will be in total a shortage of product
in the marketplace and not enough to support 12.8 million”
sales, Jackson said today in a telephone interview. U.S.
automakers such as Ford and  General Motors Co. (GM)  “can make up
their production plan, but it’s asking too much to say they can
produce more.”  AutoNation fell $1.50, or 4.4 percent, to $33.01 at
4:02 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have climbed 17 percent this year.  AutoNation’s net income rose to $69.4 million, or 46 cents
a share, from $55.2 million, or 32 cents, a year earlier. Profit
excluding some items was also 46 cents, topping the 43 cent
average of 10 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
rose 17 percent to $3.31 billion.  Sales Top Industry  AutoNation’s retail new-vehicle sales climbed 23 percent in
the first quarter to 54,198 units, the company said earlier this
month. That exceeded the 20 percent gain in deliveries that
pushed industrywide sales in the U.S. to 3.06 million new
vehicles through March, according to researcher Autodata Corp.  Industrywide U.S. light-vehicle deliveries were 11.6
million in 2010, according to Autodata in  Woodcliff Lake ,  New
Jersey .  More than half of the new vehicles AutoNation sold last
year were produced by Japanese manufacturers such as Toyota
City, Japan-based Toyota and Honda, based in  Tokyo . Of those
delivered last year, about two-thirds were assembled in  North
America , AutoNation said earlier this month.  Consumer demand for new autos is still recovering and that
may lead to higher vehicle prices as manufacturers struggle to
meet production goals, Jackson said.  Better Margins  “Anytime you’re going to have significantly more demand
than supply, there’s going to be some movement on margins and I
fully expect that to happen,” Jackson said.  Ford is closing factories in  Taiwan  for two weeks and
plants in  South Africa  and  China  for one week each to preserve
parts after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami in  Japan , the
Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker said yesterday. The closings
started yesterday, Todd Nissen, a spokesman, said in an e-mail.  The automaker has lost 12,000 to 14,000 vehicles of
production in  Asia  this year because of the earthquake in Japan
and may lose more, Chief Financial Officer  Lewis Booth  told
reporters today. There has been no lost production in North
America and the quake will have no “material” impact on Ford’s
earnings, Booth said.  Ford maintained its forecast for U.S. sales this year of
13 million to 13.5 million, including medium- and heavy-duty
trucks. Sales in the first quarter ran at a seasonally adjusted
annual pace of 13.4 million, the company said.  Toyota Slowed  Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, has said production
will remain limited until November or December. The company has
a “clear idea” when certain parts will be available, Atsushi Niimi, executive vice president for global production and
engineering, said in a conference call today.  Toyota may lose production of 300,000 vehicles in Japan and
100,000 units of overseas auto production through the end of
April due to quake-related shutdowns, Niimi told reporters last
week. The company is unlikely to meet its full-year global
production target of 7.7 million units, he said.  Group 1 Automotive Inc. (GPI) , the fourth-largest U.S. auto-
dealership group, also said today it expects a 30 percent to
50 percent drop in deliveries of Japanese-brand vehicles this
summer. Tighter inventory may constrain sales into the third
quarter, the Houston-based retailer said.  “The good news is it’s no longer a consumer issue that
we’re dealing with,” Earl Hesterberg, Group 1’s CEO, said today
on a conference call. “There is no evidence that the consumer
has backed off even in April.”  Group 1, which operates 103 auto dealerships, said its
first-quarter net income surged to $15.4 million, or 66 cents a
share, from $7.98 million, or 34 cents, a year earlier.  Group 1 fell $3.51, or 8.2 percent, to $39.49 at 4:03 p.m.
in New York trading. The shares plunged earlier as much as
11 percent, the most intraday in almost a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 