-- 
Lawson Agrees to Be Acquired by Golden Gate Capital, Infor for $2 Billion

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 
2011-04-26T20:16:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/lawson-agrees-to-be-acquired-by-golden-gate-capital-infor-for-2-billion.html
Golden Gate  Capital Corp. and
software maker Infor agreed to buy  Lawson Software Inc. (LWSN)  for
about $2 billion, gaining programs that help run businesses.  Stockholders of Lawson will receive $11.25 a share in cash,
according to a statement today. The stock had risen to $12.13 as
of yesterday after the  St. Paul , Minnesota-based company
disclosed on March 11 it was in discussions with Golden Gate and
Infor about an unsolicited bid of $11.25 a share.  Private-equity firm Golden Gate is expanding its backing
for Infor, which develops programs used by manufacturers and
distributors. The deal gives Infor human resources and health-
care software, which will help it compete with companies such as
 SAP AG (SAP)  and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  Those rivals have products that overlap
with Lawson’s, which led to a lack of competing bids, said Paul Hamerman, an analyst at Forrester Research Inc.  “The acquirers didn’t pay much of a premium,” said
Hamerman, who is based in Richmond, Virginia. “Infor is really
the only application company that can absorb Lawson.”  Lawson, founded in 1975, slumped $1.07, or 8.8 percent, to
$11.06 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.
The stock has gained 20 percent this year.  Icahn’s Investment  The price is 19 percent more than Lawson’s $9.46 average
closing price in the 90 days before the March announcement. The
sale values Lawson at 12 times its earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization for the 12 months ended
Feb. 28, according to the statement.  The buyers of more than 500 U.S. providers of enterprise
software and services over the past five years paid an average
premium of about 20 percent, compared with the average price of
20 trading days before the deal’s announcement, according to
Bloomberg data. The price for 12 of those deals was a median 16
times the target’s Ebitda.  Lawson makes programs used by companies including  Safeway
Inc. (SWY)  and Volvo AB. It had about 3,900 employees as of May 2010
and makes money by licensing its software and by providing
customer support and maintenance and consulting services.  Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn , one of Lawson’s largest
shareholders, controlled 8.7 percent of the company’s
outstanding shares as of March 14, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Icahn’s firm began buying shares on April 1, 2010 when the
stock was trading at $6.63, according to a regulatory filing
today.  “This underscores the benefits of strategic consolidations
that shareholders can obtain when management is willing to be
open to strategic alternatives,” Icahn said in the filing.  Slumping Sales  Lawson’s sales have dropped for two straight years, as
revenue from its consulting services and helping customers
maintain their software programs fell amid the recession.  “Lawson had plateaued,” Hamerman said. “It was very
lean. They were unable to fund the kind of innovation you need
for growth.”  Golden Gate, based in  San Francisco , has $9 billion in
capital under management, according to its website. In addition
to Infor, its technology investments have included Sierra
Systems Group Inc. and Geac Computer Corp. It has also invested
in retailers Express Inc. and Eddie Bauer Inc.  The Lawson deal will probably close in the third quarter,
the companies said.  Barclays Capital  is Lawson’s financial
adviser and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP is
providing it with legal help.  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  is advising
the buyers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Katie Hoffmann in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  