-- 
Lawson Software Is Said to Be Near Sale to Infor, Golden Gate

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-04-26T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/lawson-software-said-to-be-near-agreement-to-be-sold-to-infor-golden-gate.html
Lawson Software Inc. (LWSN) , a maker of
programs that help run businesses, is near an agreement to sell
itself to Infor Global Solutions and  Golden Gate  Capital Corp.,
said three people with knowledge of the matter.  Lawson may announce a sale as soon as today, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the negotiations
are private. Lawson has a market value of $1.99 billion. Its
stock has risen to $12.13 since the St. Paul, Minnesota-based
company disclosed on March 11 it was in discussions with Golden
Gate and Infor about an unsolicited bid of $11.25 a share.  The earlier offer was 19 percent more than Lawson’s $9.46
average closing price in the previous 90 days. The company,
founded in 1975, makes enterprise software used by companies
including  Safeway Inc. (SWY)  and Volvo AB. It had about 3,900
employees as of May 2010 and makes money by licensing its
software, as well as by providing customer support and
maintenance and consulting services.  Billionaire investor Carl Icahn, one of Lawson’s largest
shareholders, controlled 8.7 percent of the company’s
outstanding shares as of March 14, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Golden Gate, based in San Francisco, is a private equity
firm with $9 billion in capital under management, according to
its website. Its investments have included enterprise software
provider Infor, as well as retailers Express Inc. and Eddie
Bauer Inc.  Joe Thornton, a spokesman for Lawson, declined to comment
yesterday after the Wall Street Journal reported that the
company may be near a sale agreement. Dan Barnhardt, a spokesman
for Infor, didn’t respond to an e-mail and phone call seeking
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 