-- 
BA Uses Iberia to Challenge Lufthansa in Cargo: Freight Markets

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-04-26T23:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/ba-uses-iberia-to-challenge-lufthansa-in-cargo-freight-markets.html
British Airways’s merger with
Iberia boosted passenger traffic 50 percent, narrowing the gap
to  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and Air France-KLM Group. The deal
didn’t dent its rivals’ lead in the $60 billion cargo market.  BA and Iberia this month fused their cargo units in the
biggest operational change since the January merger and will add
three 747-8Fs to become the first major European airline with
 Boeing Co. (BA) ’s largest-ever freighter.  The merged company will still have half the freight traffic
of Lufthansa and Air France-KLM after decades where cargo played
second fiddle to passengers. Attempts to redress the balance may
be hampered by limits on London night flights, U.K. and Spanish
exports that lag behind  Germany  and a limited freighter fleet.  “They need to look at all market niches because you ignore
it at your peril,” said Laurie Price, director of aviation
strategy at Mott MacDonald Group Ltd. in Croydon,  England .
“You’re denying yourself a revenue opportunity.”  Lufthansa made 310 million euros ($453 million) of
operating profit from cargo on sales of 2.8 billion euros last
year, accounting for 36 percent of its total earnings before
interest and tax. British Airways, which doesn’t break down
cargo profit, generated 531 million pounds ($875 million) in
revenue from the unit, or 7.9 percent of its total, in the nine
months through Dec. 31.  British Airways and Iberia last year racked up 5.89 billion
freight ton kilometers -- the weight of goods carried times the
distance flown -- parent International Consolidated Airlines
Group SA said April 8 when the cargo merger was announced.  Lufthansa’s Lead  Lufthansa Cargo amassed 8.91 billion ton kilometers, an
increase of 20 percent from 2009. Including Lufthansa’s 18 other
freight-related units or joint ventures the total was 11.46
billion, making it the world’s biggest cargo carrier among
passenger airlines.  Air France-KLM (AF) , which has 14 freighters, last year ranked
just behind Lufthansa with 11.15 billion freight ton kilometers.  BA’s cargo business is smaller because it relies on so-
called belly freight, carried in the hold of a passenger plane,
which accounts for 75 percent of cargo capacity. The London-
based carrier has only three freighters, 747-400s it leases,
while Iberia has none.  Lufthansa operates 18 Boeing MD-11 freighters from its main
Frankfurt hub, six 747s through its business with  China ’s
 Shenzhen Airlines  and eight 777Fs via a venture with Deutsche
Post AG’s DHL Express. That gives it a 50:50 split between
freighters and belly cargo.  Boeing Freighters  “BA’s policy has been less toward freighter operations,
whereas Lufthansa has had a strong global cargo presence for
years,” said Neil Hougham, cargo consultant at Air Transport
Management Ltd. in Reading, England.  The replacement of BA’s 747-400s with leased 747-8Fs will
increase volumes by 60 tons. That’s 12 percent of the 500 tons
of extra capacity Lufthansa will add with the delivery of five
more 777Fs valued at $1.35 billion from 2013.  Boeing estimates global air-cargo traffic will triple in
the next 20 years compared with 2009 levels, with traffic
between Europe and  Asia  expanding 6.6 percent a year.  Steve Gunning, who will run BA’s merged unit, wasn’t
available to discuss plans for the business, which will retain
two operating brands while moving to a single network with one
sales contact per market, IAG spokeswoman Laura Goodes said.  At Air France, which had pursued a freight strategy closer
to that of BA than Lufthansa, capacity swelled after the 2004
takeover of KLM and the Dutch division’s acquisition three years
ago of Martinair Holland NV, an Amsterdam-based carrier which
will drop all passenger services in November to focus on cargo.  Export Constraint  British Airways and Iberia are also at a disadvantage
because their home nations have relatively small manufacturing
bases, said  Douglas McNeill , an aviation analyst at  Charles
Stanley  in  London  with a “hold” recommendation on IAG stock.  “Cargo is an important area for BA for sure, but it’s
constrained by the nature of the economy it serves,” he said.  About half of European air-freight consignments originate
from Germany, Europe’s largest exporter, according to Gert-Jan
Jansen, head of Amsterdam-based Seabury Cargo Advisory. Germany
shipped $1.27 trillion of merchandise in 2010, three times the
value of U.K. exports and five times those from  Spain , according
to World Trade Organization figures.  British Airways is also constrained by the scarcity of new
take-off and landing slots at its London Heathrow base, together
with a ban on flights between 11:30 p.m. and 5:30 a.m. The
curfew limits BA’s ability to make next-day deliveries from
 Europe ’s busiest airport and forces it to station freighters at
London Stansted 40 miles away, complicating shipments between
the locations, according to Mott MacDonald’s Price.  Belly Freight  Still, the combination with Iberia is useful because the
Spanish carrier’s Latin American routes complement the strength
of British Airways in Asia, Hougham of Air Transport Management
said. About 30 percent of Iberia’s cargo is food products and
perishables transported from  Latin America  to Spain.  It’s also easier to make money from goods transported by
passenger plane as ticket sales cover most of the cost. Belly
cargo typically returns a 60 percent profit, while freighter
operations struggle to break even, Seabury’s Jansen said.  Air France-KLM reviewed its cargo unit after the recession
and concluded a strategy based around the passenger fleet was a
safer bet, spokesman Jean Claude Raynaud said. The company now
moves 70 percent of cargo as belly freight versus 50 percent
previously.  By leasing planes British Airways also maximizes its
ability to respond to variations in demand, with long-distance
flows of the type best suited to air transport usually falling
off more sharply in a slump than do more local flows that tend
to favor road or rail haulage.  “They don’t want to be tied to expensive assets that many
feel are a little too vulnerable to global economic
conditions,” Hougham said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  