-- 
Bahrain Tells UN About Hezbollah’s Efforts to Topple Monarchy

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-04-26T16:48:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/bahrain-tells-un-about-hezbollah-s-efforts-to-topple-monarchy.html
Bahrain is asserting that the
Iranian-backed, Shiite Muslim militia Hezbollah is seeking to
overthrow the Persian Gulf nation’s Sunni Muslim monarchy.  Protests against the monarchy have been “exacerbated by
the active involvement of Hezbollah, a militia that operates
freely in Lebanon outside any government control to conduct
terrorist activities,” Bahrain’s Foreign Minister Sheikh Khalid Bin Ahmed Al Khalifa said in an April 17 letter to  United
Nations  Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.  Hezbollah’s “interference” includes military training of
Bahraini citizens in Hezbollah camps and “inflammatory and
inciting statements” by leaders of the group, he said in the
letter. Hezbollah also meets with “Bahraini facilitators in
order to draw strategies and operations,” he said.  Terrorist acts in Bahrain have used the “same methods and
tactics” as Hezbollah, Sheikh Khalid said.  The letter, which was reported yesterday by the Wall Street
Journal, refers to logistical support to Hezbollah’s efforts to
destabilize Bahrain by “some foreign countries.” The countries
aren’t identified. Previously, Bahrain’s King Hamad Bin Issa Al Khalifa has accused opposition leaders of colluding with Shiite-
ruled  Iran  in “subversive designs.”  Bahraini riot police on March 16 drove protesters from
their rallying point in the capital of Manama a day after the
government declared a three-month state of emergency. Saudi
Arabia-led Gulf troops arrived in the country to provide support
as the Sunni monarchy crushed mainly Shiite demands for
democracy, inspired by the toppling of leaders in Tunisia and
 Egypt  earlier this year.  Crackdown  At least 21 people were killed during the crackdown,
according to the Bahrain Human Rights Society.  Hezbollah, considered a terrorist organization by the U.S.
and  Israel , operates in southern Lebanon and is also supported
by  Syria .  The Gulf Cooperation Council and Lebanon’s caretaker prime
minister,  Saad Hariri , have criticized Iran’s interference in
the affairs of Bahrain and other Arab countries. Sheikh Khaled,
in an April 19 posting on Twitter, said the troops from Persian
Gulf nations would remain in Bahrain as a counter to Iran.  “This Iranian policy is not acceptable anymore,” Hariri
said in a speech at a conference in  Beirut  on April 7. “The
gradual abduction of the Arab societies under any slogan will
not be in the interest of Iran or Arab-Iranian relations.”  Bahrain yesterday ordered Iranian diplomat Heget Elah
Rahmani to leave the country in 72 hours over alleged ties to a
spy network operating in  Kuwait , the official Bahrain News
Agency said.  Iran’s Foreign Minister,  Ali Akbar Salehi , in his own
letter to Ban on April 15, said his government was concerned
about “apartheid-like” discrimination of the Shiite minority
and repression of protests. He appealed for UN Security Council
intervention to halt the violence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  