-- 
BankAtlantic Wins Reversal in Shareholder Stock-Fraud Case

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-04-26T17:44:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/bankatlantic-bancorp-wins-reversal-in-shareholder-stock-fraud-verdict.html
BankAtlantic Bancorp Inc. (BBX)  won a
judge’s reversal of a jury verdict that awarded shareholders
$2.41 a share in damages based on alleged stock-fraud.  The jury last year in federal court in Miami found that
bank officials ignored lending guidelines in approving land-
development loans and then misrepresented problems with those
deals in public statements.  “Even if a defrauded plaintiff sells his shares at a lower
price after the truth of the fraud is revealed to the market,”
the loss “may reflect not the earlier misrepresentation, but
changed economic circumstances,” among other things, U.S.
District Judge Ursula Ungaro said in a 112-page opinion
yesterday, citing previous rulings.  Evidence to the contrary “was insufficient” to support
the verdict, the judge wrote. The plaintiffs also “did not
produce sufficient evidence to support an award of damages in
any amount,” Ungaro said.  “We are extremely surprised by the judge’s ruling and
respectfully disagree,” Mark Arisohn, an attorney for the
plaintiffs, said in a statement. “As the court mentioned in its
decision, this issue will be resolved on appeal.”  Subprime Collapse  BankAtlantic traded at more than $44 in January 2005. The
 Fort Lauderdale , Florida-based bank suffered a series of losses
in the wake of an economic decline triggered by the collapse of
the U.S. subprime-mortgage market in 2007.  The bank’s Class A shares rose 4 cents to 93 cents in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading at 1:21 p.m. today.  “BankAtlantic lost money and Bancorp’s stock price
declined largely because of the collapse of the  Florida  real
estate market, a risk that was fully disclosed,” BankAtlantic
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Alan B. Levan said in a
statement today.  The case is In re BankAtlantic Bancorp Inc. Securities
Litigation, 07-cv-61542, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of Florida (Miami).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  