-- 
Barrick Seen Trumped as Equinox Belies Top Valuation: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-04-26T02:17:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/barrick-seen-trumped-as-equinox-belies-top-valuation-real-m-a.html
Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) ’s agreement to
buy  Equinox Minerals Ltd. (EQN)  for the most expensive valuation in a
copper mining takeover still isn’t high enough, according to
traders who profit from mergers and acquisitions.  Equinox is trading 2.7 percent above Toronto-based
Barrick’s C$8.15-a-share offer that trumped an unsolicited
proposal of C$7 from  Minmetals Resources Ltd. (1208) , signaling
investors expect a sweetened bid. The C$7.32 billion ($7.67
billion) offer from the world’s biggest gold company values
Perth, Australia-based Equinox at 13.5 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, a record level
for a copper takeover, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Barrick, which more than doubled its cash to almost $4
billion in the past two years, is now pursuing its second-
largest deal to gain control of a copper deposit in Zambia that
can be mined for 37 years. Minmetals, a unit of state-owned
 China  Minmetals Group, offered C$6.04 billion for Equinox three
weeks ago to shore up access to copper, which is used in
plumbing and wiring for buildings, after demand from China drove
the metal to a record this year.  “There’s a giant copper mine here for sale and two
bidders,” John Maysles, an event-driven analyst at Elevation
LLC, said in an interview from  Los Angeles . “Minmetals
definitely had more in its pocket to pay for Equinox. Now the
question is, do they want to get into a competitive situation
with a company like Barrick that has in the past shown that they
can be pretty aggressive bidders?”  Yesterday’s Trading  Equinox Chief Executive Officer  Craig Williams  wasn’t
available for comment, said William Belonio, an assistant at the
company’s Toronto office.  Minmetals “notes the announcements by Barrick and Equinox
and will comment further when we have had the opportunity to
study it in detail,” Martin McFarlane, head of  investor
relations  for the company, said in an e-mail.  Equinox surged 86 cents, or 11 percent, to C$8.37 yesterday
in Toronto, surpassing Barrick’s bid by 2.7 percent. Barrick
said before trading opened it had agreed to acquire Equinox for
$7.67 billion including net debt, valuing the company at 13.5
times Ebitda of $570.2 million last year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “The market has Equinox trading through the C$8.15
offer,” said George Topping, a Toronto-based analyst at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. “It’s assuming Minmetals may come back with a
higher bid.”  Relative Value  Barrick’s all-cash offer represents a 17 percent premium to
Equinox’s 20-day trading average before the announcement. It’s
54 percent higher than the stock’s average before the
unsolicited bid from Minmetals on April 3, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Barrick is valuing Equinox’s equity at 28 times net income,
also the highest for an acquisition in the industry and topping
the 24 times multiple that’s underpinning Minmetals’s proposal.  “There continues to be a very high level of interest for
these mineral companies,” said Keith Moore, an event-driven
strategist at MKM Partners LP in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“Barrick is a very deep-pocketed acquirer.”  The boards of Barrick and Equinox both agreed to the
combination, which still requires approval from two-thirds of
Equinox’s shareholders, according to the statement yesterday.  Zambia,  Saudi Arabia   Barrick and Minmetals are seeking access to Equinox’s
Lumwana project, which is Zambia’s biggest capital investment
and is designed to process more than 20 million metric tons of
ore per year over a mine life of  37 years , according to the
company’s website. Equinox also bought the biggest copper
deposit in Saudi Arabia in January, and its first production is
expected in 2012.  “It’s rare when you have mines of this size and caliber in
the market place,” Barrick CEO Aaron Regent said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “We are securing a very large, attractive
resource that I think will generate significant value for our
company for many, many years.”  Barrick still slumped 6.7 percent yesterday, the most since
December 2009, because shareholders are concerned the combined
entity’s stock would represent a bigger bet on copper prices,
according to Timothy Parker, who oversees $8.5 billion in
natural-resource stocks at T. Rowe Price Group Inc. in
Baltimore, part of the firm’s $509.9 billion under management
globally. The C$3.57 drop in Barrick’s shares to C$49.50 in
Toronto gave the company a market value of about C$49.4 billion.  While copper slid 4.8 percent from a record on Feb. 15
through last week, gold for immediate delivery climbed to an
all-time high of $1,518.32 an ounce yesterday in  London .  ‘Global Distress’  Barrick generated 12 percent of its $11.2 billion in total
revenue from its copper mines last year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Buying Equinox would boost its copper reliance
to about 20 percent of sales, based on 2010 results.  Barrick’s CEO Regent said there’s compatibility between
gold and copper production.  “In times of global distress gold tends to outperform
copper and during times when the world is feeling really good
about itself copper tends to outperform gold,” he said in the
interview. “The combination brings increased stability to our
earnings and makes it a better contrarian investment.”  Copper would have to continue to trade for at least $3.40 a
pound to justify paying C$7.32 billion for Equinox, according to
Stifel Nicolaus’s Topping. He expects copper prices to fall
below that level by 2015 to $2.50 a pound.  Copper Forecasts  Minmetals and Barrick are bidding for Equinox after copper
for delivery in three months on the London Metal Exchange traded
at a record $10,190 a ton, or $4.62 a pound, on Feb. 15. The
metal will average $9,760 a ton this year and $10,350 in 2012,
the median of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Barrick’s offer was 16 percent higher than the C$7-a-share
bid from Minmetals, a Hong Kong-listed unit of China’s biggest
metals trader. Minmetals owns the world’s second-biggest zinc
mine and other assets in  Australia ,  Laos  and  Canada .  The Equinox offer by Minmetals was already China’s largest
ever proposed takeover of a mining company, and the 32 percent
premium over the 20-day trading average would have been the most
a Chinese company has paid for a mining deal greater than $500
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There’s still a reasonable chance that Minmetals makes a
competing bid, having identified this supposedly over a year ago
as a target,” MKM’s Moore said. “Money shouldn’t be an issue
for Minmetals.”  Credit Ratings  Barrick said its deal is already fully financed, including
access to almost $4 billion in cash and equivalents, an existing
$1.5 billion credit facility and an additional $5 billion from a
bridge loan and revolving credit facility from  RBC Capital
Markets  of Toronto and New York-based Morgan Stanley.  Adding $5 billion of debt to Barrick’s long-term borrowings
may reduce the company’s credit rating by two steps to A1, the
sixth-highest level of investment grade, according to
Bloomberg’s Company Credit Ratings, which analyze borrowers
based on indebtedness, profitability and other financial ratios.  Moody’s Investors Service placed Barrick’s Baa1 rating,
three steps above junk, on review for a possible downgrade.  Barrick’s largest acquisition, including net debt, was the
$9.93 billion purchase of Placer Dome Inc. five years ago to
create the world’s biggest gold producer after sweetening its
offer.  As part of yesterday’s agreement, Equinox said it will
withdraw its C$4.6 billion unsolicited bid for Toronto-based
 Lundin Mining Corp. (LUN)  Barrick’s proposal includes a C$250 million
breakup fee if Equinox accepts a deal with another bidder.
Barrick also has the right to match superior proposals.  “The bottom line here is people are expecting a higher
offer,” said  Sachin Shah , a special situations and merger
arbitrage strategist at Capstone Global Markets LLC in  New York .
“Minmetals’s source of capital is essentially unlimited.”  Overall, there have been 7,735 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $745.4 billion, a 22 percent increase from
the $609.3 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at   scasey@bloomberg.net . 