-- 
Biggest Banks Beating Estimates Can’t Hide 13% Drop in Revenue

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-04-26T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/biggest-u-s-banks-beating-estimates-can-t-hide-13-decline-in-net-revenue.html
The biggest percentage drop in
quarterly revenue in three years, driven by lower lending and
reduced fees, is damping investor appetite for shares of the six
largest U.S. banks.  Net revenue at the six lenders --  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Morgan Stanley -- fell 13.3 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Pretax pre-provision profits, which exclude taxes,
loan-loss provisions and one-time items and are considered a
better gauge of profitability than earnings, slid 40.2 percent.  While five of the banks beat analysts’ estimates, and
JPMorgan and Wells Fargo reported record quarterly earnings,
anemic revenue and a steady drop in pre-provision profits have
kept investors at bay. Since JPMorgan reported earnings on April
13 with a 67 percent rise in net income to $5.6 billion, the  KBW
Bank Index (BKX)  of the 24 largest U.S. banks has fallen 3.5 percent
as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.6 percent.  “You’re seeing people backing off of exposure to this
space because of the lack of loan growth and poor revenue
growth,” said  Paul Miller , a former examiner for the  Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia  and an analyst for FBR Capital
Markets in Arlington, Virginia. “It’s not a sell-off -- it’s
more of a slow drift down. These stocks are going to trade very
weak” until their loan books and revenue start to grow.  ‘Why Bother?’  With unemployment stuck above 8 percent, housing prices
falling again and restrictions on how much they can charge for
services, U.S. lenders are underperforming the broader market.
That’s true even as more than 80 percent of the first 28
institutions to report quarterly earnings met or beat analysts’
estimates, Melissa Roberts and Elissa Niemiera, analysts at KBW
Inc., wrote in an April 20 research note titled “Taking Some
Heat Even If You Beat.”  Average loans among the largest banks fell 6 percent in the
first quarter from last year, according to the KBW analysts.  “Loans still make up half of bank revenues and loan growth
is negative,” Brian Foran and  Glenn Schorr , analysts at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in New York, wrote in an April 14 note. “We have
spent the last few weeks on the road visiting investors. The
overwhelming feedback on banks has been ‘Why bother?’”  JPMorgan, Wells  At JPMorgan, almost half of the New York-based bank’s
earnings came from the release of reserves previously set aside
to cover bad loans. Net revenue at the second-largest U.S. bank
dropped 8.9 percent to $25.2 billion. Pre-provision profit fell
30.5 percent to $9.6 billion, the biggest drop since JPMorgan
acquired Bank One Corp. in 2004. Shares have fallen 4.4 percent
since the bank reported earnings.  Wells Fargo shares have slipped 5 percent since the San
Francisco-based lender reported a 48 percent gain in first-
quarter net income on April 20 to a record $3.8 billion. Net
revenue at the fourth-largest U.S. bank by assets fell 5.2
percent, average outstanding loans declined by more than 5
percent and pretax pre-provision income slid 23.4 percent. At
least $1 billion of Well Fargo’s record earnings came from
releasing reserves that had been set aside for bad loans.  “A lot of the earnings growth was driven by continued
reduction in loan-loss provisions, which the market has largely
discounted,” said  Jason Goldberg , a senior bank analyst at
 Barclays Capital  in  New York . “Investors’ attention has shifted
to overall revenue or pretax pre-provision net revenue.”  ‘Lack of Visibility’  Bank of America, the largest U.S. bank by assets and the
only one of the six to miss analysts’ estimates, declined 5.3
percent after recording its first profit in three quarters on
April 15. Net revenue at the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
lender fell 17.2 percent from a year ago to $26.97 billion and
pretax pre-provision earnings fell 55.1 percent to $6.9 billion,
the biggest drop among the top six banks.  While New York-based Citigroup’s $3 billion profit beat
analysts’ per-share estimates by 1 cent, net revenue fell 22.4
percent to $19.7 billion and pre-provision earnings plunged 47.9
percent to $7.1 billion. Shares are up 2.3 percent since the
bank, the third-largest by assets, reported on April 18.  Goldman Sachs, which beat analysts’ estimates by 75 cents a
share, also failed to generate investor enthusiasm. Shares are
down 1 percent since the New York-based bank, the fifth-largest
by assets, posted a 21 percent drop in first-quarter profit to
$2.7 billion on April 19.  “Investor sentiment around the brokers centers almost
entirely around the lack of visibility into the profit model
going forward,” Barclays Capital analysts led by  Roger Freeman 
told investors in an April 20 note.  Falling Fees  Morgan Stanley (MS) , operator of the world’s largest brokerage,
is down 1 percent since the New York-based bank reported April
21 that first-quarter earnings fell 45 percent to $968 million.
Revenue dropped 16 percent to $7.6 billion from $9.1 billion a
year earlier.  Fee income on deposit accounts, asset management and
securitization at federally insured banks has been falling,
according to data from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
Deposit-account fee income across the industry fell by 20.7
percent in the fourth quarter from a year ago, the FDIC said in
its most recent quarterly banking report. Banks are also losing
fee revenue from new federal rules that limit the types and
amounts of fees they can charge consumers, analysts said.  Lower Lending  Lending has remained stagnant or is still contracting at
most U.S. banks, according to the  FDIC . Real estate loan
balances at all FDIC-insured institutions, which represent more
than half of outstanding bank credit, fell 4.4 percent in the
fourth quarter to $4.27 trillion from $4.46 trillion last year,
the FDIC said. New loans are earning significantly less yield,
also cutting into revenue.  “You just have a persistent low-interest-rate environment,
so as assets roll off, you’re putting new assets back on at a
lower rate,” said Barclays’s Goldberg.  The impact can be seen on the combined pretax pre-provision
profit of the six biggest lenders, which has fallen in each of
the last four quarters compared with the same period a year
earlier, according to Bloomberg data. The drop in the first
three months of this year was the largest since the first
quarter of 2008. Bloomberg figures exclude litigation and other
non-operating expenses and income and may differ from those
reported by the banks.  While banks have said credit-card lending will start to
grow, investors have a hard time believing them, Foran and
Schorr, the Nomura analysts, wrote.  “There are some real positives that are more than cosmetic
-- credit improvement, capital markets not as bad as feared and
reasonable valuation,” they said. “It’s just hard to get
people to care about bank stocks right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  