-- 
Blockbuster Wins Bankruptcy Court's Final Approval to Sell Assets to Dish

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-04-26T16:39:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/blockbuster-wins-final-bankruptcy-court-approval-to-sell-assets-to-dish.html
Blockbuster Inc. (BLOAQ) , once the largest
video-rental chain, won final approval to sell its assets to
 Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  for $320 million in a deal expected to be
completed today.  Dish’s bid was declared the highest and best offer after an
auction April 6. On April 21, the day the sale had been
projected to close, Blockbuster told the bankruptcy judge
overseeing its Chapter 11 case that it needed to give Dish more
time to decide which of 1,500 leases to keep or reject.  The revised offer approved today gives Dish another 90 days
to decide on leases and business contracts, which should allow
the company to keep more leases and jobs, Blockbuster lawyer
Stephen Karotkin said. Dish, based in Englewood,  Colorado , is
the second-largest U.S. satellite-television provider.  “I do find there is adequate consideration to support the
amendment,” U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Burton Lifland said today
while overruling all remaining objections to the deal.  A group of senior secured noteholders who financed
Blockbuster’s operations in bankruptcy objected to the
agreement, saying one revision waives a $3 million penalty for
the delay in completing the sale. Lions Gate Films Inc. also
objected, saying Dish and Blockbuster needed to honor a revenue-
sharing agreement.  Dish Costs  Under the revised sale agreement, Dish will take on costs
for the leases at video-rental stores across the U.S. while it
decides whether to keep them. The company also will cover as
much as $4.9 million in professional fees and expenses, and $3.5
million in employee benefits, Karotkin said.  Blockbuster filed for bankruptcy in September with 5,600
stores, including 3,300 in the U.S., saying sales fell in recent
years while rival  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  grew by renting movies online and
through the mail, and  Coinstar Inc. (CSTR)  put Redbox DVD vending
machines in supermarkets and drugstores.  The deal with Dish will build Blockbuster’s subscriber-
based service as it evaluates how many stores to close with its
new owner, Blockbuster Chief Executive Officer James W. Keyes
said earlier this month. He said 29,000 jobs and “billions” of
dollars in contracts with suppliers were in limbo until the deal
is completed.  Keyes compared the company’s current on-demand service with
those of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and Wal-Mart Stores Inc.,
which are all based on individual transactions. Netflix Inc.
sells subscriptions for unlimited viewings by the month.  The case is In re Blockbuster, 10-14997,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 