-- 
LBO Firms Save $425 Million Cutting Rates in Loan Renaissance

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   I d z e l i s
-- 
2011-04-26T04:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/lbo-firms-save-425-million-cutting-interest-in-leveraged-loan-renaissance.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,  Carlyle Group 
and other buyout firms have already reaped a $425 million
windfall this year after companies they own refinanced debt in
the biggest loan market rally since the 2008 financial crisis.  The annual interest savings come from private equity-backed
companies getting better terms on $25 billion of loans during
the first quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Blackstone’s SeaWorld Parks & Entertainment and Carlyle’s NBTY
Inc. each lowered payments to lenders by about 32 percent.  Investor demand for loans is surging as the  Federal
Reserve , which begins a two-day meeting today, signals no
urgency to raise its target interest rate for overnight loans
between banks from a record low range of zero to 0.25 percent.
That’s allowing buyout firms to cut the debt costs of companies
they own and fueling speculation for a comeback of large
leveraged buyouts.  “The debt markets have been so kind and forgiving,” said
Josh Lerner, a professor of  investment banking  at  Harvard
Business School  in  Boston . “Massive” intervention in financial
markets by the Fed has helped drive the recovery in bonds and
loans faster than anyone anticipated, he said.  Speculative-grade, or junk-rated, companies raised $163.5
billion of leveraged loans in the first quarter, the most since
the last three months of 2007, Bloomberg data show. Such debt is
rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB-
at  Standard & Poor’s .  Cheap Credit  Buyout firms are again getting cheap credit two and a half
years after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse caused
lending to freeze and borrowing costs to jump. The three-month
London interbank offered rate, which banks charge each other, is
currently at 0.27 percent. It peaked during the buyout boom at
5.52 percent in July 2006.  “Libor is so low, the cost of debt is at or below where it
was at the peak of the market,” Vikrant Sawhney, a senior
managing director at Blackstone, said in a telephone interview.  Leveraged buyout firms raise money from investors such as
pension funds and endowments and use the cash to buy companies.
They finance their deals with about two-thirds debt, aiming to
profit by selling the business at a later date or taking it
public.  ‘Healing Markets’  While the viability of the industry’s biggest deals was in
question as the credit crisis deepened, the value of private
equity firms’ holdings has risen in the recovering economy.  Blackstone’s private equity portfolio increased in value by
29 percent last year, thanks to improving cash flows and
“healing” markets, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 Stephen Schwarzman  said in an earnings call in February. TPG
Capital founder  David Bonderman  said last month it’s now
possible to do a $10 billion to $15 billion LBO.  Private equity-owned firms raised $14.3 billion of loans in
the first quarter to help pay themselves dividends and
repurchase shares, more than double the $6.4 billion issued in
the first quarter a year earlier, according to S&P Leveraged
Commentary & Data. They raised $30.5 billion in loans for that
purpose in all of 2010, up from $440 million in 2009.  Lenders have balked at some refinancing efforts as
geopolitical unrest in North Africa and Middle East sent  oil
prices  above $100 a barrel for the first time since September 30
2008, threatening the economic recovery.  KKR Rejected  A government report this week may show that the U.S.
economy’s growth rate likely slowed to 1.9 percent in the first
quarter from 3.1 percent in the final three months of 2010,
according to the median of 72 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  In mid-March, Toys “R” Us Inc., the Wayne, New Jersey-
based toy retailer bought by KKR & Co., Bain Capital LLC and
Vornado Realty Trust in 2005, canceled an attempt to refinance a
$700 million term loan and raise $400 million of additional
debt, according to Bloomberg data.  The company hoped to pay 3 percentage points to 3.25
percentage points more than Libor, with a 1.25 percent to 1.5
percent minimum, two people briefed on the matter said before
the deal was pulled. It currently pays interest on the $700
million loan at 4.5 percentage points more than Libor, with a
1.5 percent floor, Bloomberg data show.  “The tragic and calamitous events around the world” are
giving lenders an opportunity to push back, said Eric Goodison,
a New York-based partner at Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton &
Garrison LLP. “It’s more of a temporary blip.”  Interest Savings  Interest rate margins on first-lien institutional loans
rated BB/BB- averaged 3.05 percent in March, down from last
year’s peak of 4.17 percent in June, according to S&P LCD.
Margins on loans rated B+/B dropped to about 4.3 percent in
March, from the high in July of 5.48 percent.  The drop in the rates on riskier loans represents $11.8
million in annual interest savings on every $1 billion borrowed.  The S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index, which tracks
prices in the secondary market, closed yesterday at 95.91 cents
on the dollar, up 62 percent from a low of 59.2 cents in
December 2008, and less than 1 percent below this year’s high of
96.48 cents on Feb. 14.  Investors poured $13.8 billion into bank loan funds last
quarter, according to an April 1 report from JPMorgan Chase &
Co. That compares with $17.9 billion for all of last year.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has sought to spur growth and
lending by keeping rates near zero since December 2008.  SeaWorld Loans  Following Lehman’s bankruptcy, the Fed’s quantitative
easing program pumped $1.7 trillion of liquidity into the market
by purchasing Treasuries and mortgage-related assets tied to the
government, aiming to push investors into riskier corporate
credit. The Fed is buying a further $600 billion of Treasuries
through June.  Blackstone’s SeaWorld, rated BB- by S&P, cut annual
interest expense by about 32 percent, or $19 million, when it
refinanced a $1.05 billion term loan, Bloomberg data show.  SeaWorld replaced the debt with a $900 million term loan B
that pays lenders 3 percentage points more than Libor, with a 1
percent floor. Under the refinancing, it also obtained a $150
million term loan A that charges 2.75 percentage points more
than Libor, with no minimum on the lending benchmark.  A term loan A is sold mainly to banks, while a term loan B
is sold mainly to non-bank lenders such as  hedge funds , mutual
funds and collateralized loan obligations.  SeaWorld’s old term loan, which was signed in December 2009
to fund its $2.3 billion buyout by Blackstone, paid 3.5 percent
more than Libor, with a 2.25 percent floor, Bloomberg data show.
The savings from the refinancing reflects the $1.04 billion that
S&P said was outstanding under the senior credit as of Dec. 31.  ‘Good Thing’  “A reduction in the cost of borrowings or in total
borrowings is a good thing for our investors and their
returns,” Blackstone’s Sawhney said in a  Question & Answer 
briefing posted on the firm’s website in late February.  Refinancing gives SeaWorld, the second biggest theme park
operator in the U.S. behind Walt Disney Co., even more financial
and operating flexibility, he said in the phone interview. The
 Orlando , Florida-based company will increase  capital spending  to
attract customers after a decline in attendance and earnings
last year, according to a Feb. 8 S&P report.  Previous lack of spending was “a particular disadvantage
to SeaWorld” given the many new attractions introduced by its
rivals last year, S&P analyst Ariel Silverberg wrote in the
report. She cited  Universal Studios ’ Wizarding World of  Harry
Potter , which had its grand opening in Orlando in June.  In February Carlyle’s Ronkonkoma, New York-based vitamin
maker NBTY cut the rate on $1.75 billion of term loans to 3.25
percentage points more than Libor, with a 1 percent floor,
Bloomberg data show.  A new $1.75 billion term loan B replaced a $1.5 billion
term loan B that charged a margin of 4.5 percentage points, and
a $250 million term loan A that paid lenders a spread of 4.25
percentage points.  NBTY, which previously had a 1.75 percent Libor floor on
both loans, will save $34 million a year, Harvey Kamil,
president and chief financial officer, said in a March 18
earnings call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Idzelis in New York at 
 cidzelis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 