-- 
Boeing’s Delays on 787 May End as Analysts See On-Time Entry

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-04-26T20:33:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/boeing-dreamliner-delays-to-end-as-analysts-see-on-time-delivery.html
Boeing Co. (BA) ’s new 787 Dreamliner
earned the nickname “7-Late-7” for three years of delays in
entering commercial service. The razzing may soon be over.  The world’s first composite-plastic airliner probably will
be delivered to its first customer,  Japan ’s All Nippon Airways
Co., by September as promised, according to 10 of 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Boeing set the third-quarter goal in January after a fire
on a test flight spurred a seventh postponement. The company has
said it finished most tests for U.S. Federal Aviation
Administration approval and is working toward shipments of 10
planes a month by 2013, a record rate for a wide-body jet.  “Everyone is so trained after seven delays to be reluctant
to believe that there won’t be an eighth,” said Carter Copeland, a Barclays Capital analyst in  New York . “That said,
all things come to an end, and increasingly there are data
points that are indicative of things being near closure.”  Boeing will answer analysts’ questions tomorrow about the
787 and the 747-8 jumbo jet, which is also running late, when
the Chicago-based company holds an earnings conference call.
First-quarter profit is expected to be 70 cents a share, the
average of 21 estimates, unchanged from a year earlier.  A Boeing spokeswoman,  Lori Gunter , said she couldn’t
comment on the 787 ahead of the call.  Years of Delays  Once targeted to reach customers in May 2008, the 787 has
been hampered by parts shortages and Boeing’s struggles with a
new production system and materials. Analysts dubbed it the “7-
Late-7,” and newspapers including  London ’s Daily Telegraph
quipped that the Dreamliner had become a nightmare.  The delays on the 787 and 747-8 meant that Boeing has had
to count on the single-aisle 737 and twin-aisle 777 for income.
Boeing expects to deliver the first 747-8 freighter in the
middle of this year.  Seven of the 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg said they
expect Dreamliner deliveries to begin in August, two said
September and one gave a third-quarter estimate. One said the
plane might slip into the fourth quarter.  Many issued caveats with their on-time predictions.  “I’ve been wrong seven times,” said JB Groh with D.A.
Davidson & Co. in  Lake Oswego ,  Oregon . Groh rates Boeing as
“neutral,” while Copeland is part of a Barclays team that
recommends buying the shares.  Share Price  Boeing gained 65 cents to $75.55 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have fallen 26
percent since Oct. 9, 2007, the day before the first delay was
announced, compared with a 14 percent drop for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  Boeing executives have said test pilots are flying the
distances and test scenarios needed for the FAA to certify the
787 to carry passengers. About 85 percent of the tests were done
as of March 23, including the “critical ones,” Chief Financial
Officer  James Bell  said in a presentation. Boeing said today it
has begun pilot training with All Nippon, marking a
“significant milestone” toward the first 787 delivery.  “I am more confident as we get closer every day that they
can meet that schedule,” Clay Jones, chief executive officer of
supplier  Rockwell Collins Inc. (COL) , said in an interview last week.  “But we still have work to do, and as we’ve learned from
past experience, you don’t know what you don’t know,” Jones
said.  Cedar Rapids , Iowa-based Rockwell Collins’s cockpit
instruments and surveillance systems for the 787 have been
certified, he said.  Over-Water Certification  Boeing still must prove to the FAA that the twin-engine
Dreamliner can fly long distances over water so it can win
certification for the long-haul routes it was designed to serve.  The November fire called those operations into question,
spurring John Hickey, the FAA’s deputy associate administrator
for aviation safety, to meet with Boeing executives about the
787’s engine and electrical-system reliability the next month.  The FAA can’t discuss the certification program, though
testing is “progressing according to Boeing’s schedule,”
Alison Duquette, an agency spokeswoman, said this month.  The analysts in the survey estimated that Boeing would
deliver six to 18 Dreamliners this year, with the tempo rising
to a range of 45 to 110 in 2013. The 787 is more challenging
than traditional aluminum jets because it’s the first airliner
made from carbon fibers woven around a mold and baked. Boeing
also relies more on suppliers in the manufacturing process.  Boeing’s January goal to ship 12 to 20 787s in 2011 is too
ambitious, the  Seattle Times reported today,  citing an
unidentified mechanic and engineer as saying the planes
assembled so far need extensive reworking because of subsequent
redesigns. Boeing is flying six 787s in tests and has built 29
more, the newspaper said.  “My sense is that Boeing leadership is far more focused on
the ramp-up than on certification,” said Copeland, the Barclays
analyst. “One can take that as a good sign that we’re
approaching first delivery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  