-- 
Bollard May Keep New Zealand Interest Rate at Record Low to Revive Economy

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s   a n d   D a n i e l   P e t r i e
-- 
2011-04-27T03:25:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/bollard-may-keep-new-zealand-interest-rate-at-record-low-to-revive-economy.html
New Zealand  will probably keep
interest rates at a record low until at least the second half of
the year to spur an economic recovery from the nation’s
deadliest earthquake in 80 years.  All 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predict
 Reserve Bank  of New Zealand Governor Alan Bollard will leave the
official cash rate at 2.5 percent in a decision due at 9 a.m.
tomorrow in Wellington. Five economists forecast the rate will
rise before Dec. 31 while 12 see no change this year.  Economic growth estimated to be as little as 0.8 percent
this year and slower-than-forecast inflation give Bollard space
to refrain from following counterparts in  China ,  South Korea  and
 Singapore  who are tightening policy. New Zealand cut the key
rate in March after earthquakes in the southern city of
Christchurch hurt  consumer confidence  and spending.  “The New Zealand economy remains fragile and in need of
continued support,” said  Nick Tuffley , chief economist at ASB
Bank Ltd. in Auckland. “Recent indicators point to inflation
pressures in the economy being contained for now. This suggests
little urgency for the bank to lift the cash rate from the
emergency low settings.”  There is no chance of a change in New Zealand rates this
week, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG index based on
interest-rate swaps. There is a 65 percent chance of a quarter-
point increase by December, ANZ National Bank Ltd. said in an
April research note.  Deadly Quake  Bollard cut borrowing costs by half a percentage point on
March 10, saying it was a preemptive move to counter the
economic impact of the earthquake that struck Christchurch on
Feb. 22, the second in less than six months.  The magnitude 6.3 temblor struck New Zealand’s second-
biggest city at lunch time, wrecking buildings and forcing an
evacuation of the central business district. The disaster has
hurt output from the city, which makes up 15 percent of the
nation’s gross domestic product, as workers left the city and
offices were abandoned. More than 170 people were killed, the
most since 256 died after a 1931 earthquake in Napier.  New Zealand’s economy may expand 0.8 percent this year, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said in
its  Economic Surveys: New Zealand 2011  report published today,
citing the earthquake and weak household spending. Bollard
should leave borrowing costs unchanged “for some time” before
tightening policy in 2012, the Paris-based OECD said.  IMF’s View  Earlier this month, the  International Monetary Fund 
forecast growth of 0.9 percent for New Zealand, the weakest
among 14 Asian nations it analyzed. The country’s central bank
cut its 2011 growth forecast to 1.3 percent from 2.7 percent
last month.  Consumer confidence held at a two-year low this month,
according to a survey by ANZ National and Roy Morgan research
published April 21. Business confidence rebounded in April after
falling in March by the most since the onset of the global
financial crisis in 2008, as record-low interest rates buoyed
sentiment, according to an ANZ National survey of 463 companies
released today.  Weaker consumer sentiment and Christchurch store closures
have damped sales growth at clothing retailer  Hallenstein
Glasson Holdings Ltd. (HLG)  Sales in a seven-week period ended March
22 were 3.7 percent lower than a year earlier, the Auckland-
based company said in a statement on March 24.  Consumer prices rose 0.8 percent in the three months ended
March 31 from the previous quarter, less than the 1 percent
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 12 economists.
Prices were unchanged excluding food, fuel and government
charges, according to central bank analysis posted on its
 website .  ‘Good Shape’  The economy is in “pretty good shape on inflation,”
Finance Minister Bill English said in a Bloomberg Television
interview earlier this month.  Asian central banks elsewhere are fighting higher prices.
China raised  interest rates  this month, joining nations from
 Thailand  to  India  that have boosted borrowing costs in 2011.  The prospect of Bollard holding borrowing costs at 2.5
percent hasn’t curbed demand for New Zealand’s dollar, which is
the best-performing G-10 currency the past month. Currency carry
traders who borrow in countries with low interest costs to fund
purchases in markets with higher yields are seeing returns
rebound from two-year lows as the U.S. Federal Reserve and Bank
of  Japan  show no urgency to tighten monetary policy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Petrie in Sydney at 
 dpetrie5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  