-- 
Botin Bid to Be Best in Brazil Falls Flat for Investors in Santander Unit

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-04-26T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/botin-s-best-in-brazil-bid-falls-flat-for-santander-investors.html
Two-and-a-half years after Chairman
 Emilio Botin ’s  pledge  to make  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  the “best bank
in Brazil,” investors say it’s still losing ground to homegrown
competitors such as  Banco Bradesco SA. (BBDC4)   Since Spain’s Santander sold shares in its Brazilian unit
in October 2009, the stock has slumped 23 percent in  Sao Paulo 
trading, compared with an 8.3 percent gain for Bradesco and 4.3
percent increase for  Itau Unibanco Holding SA. (ITUB4)   Santander, which reports first-quarter earnings tomorrow,
is relying on Brazil as its biggest profit driver for a second
year after a real-estate crash hurt earnings in Spain. While
Brazil has buoyed Santander, whose annual profit fell only about
10 percent from peak to trough during the financial crisis, for
investors in its unit there the results have been disappointing,
said Yves Kuhn of Swisscanto Asset Management.  “There’s some disillusionment at unfulfilled promises that
were very hard to sustain when they couldn’t get up to par with
other institutions out there,” said Kuhn, who holds Santander
Brasil stock as part of the $1 billion he manages at Swisscanto
in Zurich. “If you look at the big banks in Brazil, the laggard
is Santander, and I’m sure that causes some raised eyebrows in
 Madrid .”  Brazil Bank Mergers  Santander may report first-quarter net income of 2.22
billion euros ($3.25 billion), little changed from a year
earlier, according to the average estimate of five analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Profit from Brazil may have gained 37
percent to 816 million euros, while earnings from Spanish retail
banking probably fell 48 percent to 314 million euros, according
to Daragh Quinn, an analyst at Nomura International in Madrid.  A spokesman for Santander in Madrid, who asked not to be
named in line with company policy, declined to comment on the
performance of its Brazilian business. The bank’s shares trading
in Spain declined 25 percent since the Brazil IPO in October
2009, compared with a 13 percent decline in the Bloomberg Europe
Banks and Financial Services Index.  Santander’s purchase of  ABN Amro  Holding NV’s Brazil unit
for 11 billion euros in 2007 vaulted the lender into the  top
three  non-state-owned banks in  Latin America ’s biggest economy,
with 376 billion reais ($239 billion) of assets, 54,000 staff
and 2,395 branches in December, according to Brazilian central
bank data. Loans to individuals and companies amount to about 70
percent of its lending business.  The transaction fostered consolidation among rivals. Itau’s
$12.5 billion acquisition of Uniao de Bancos Brasileiros SA in
2008 to create Brazil’s biggest bank was in part spurred by
Santander, which had become a “new kind of player” with the
ABN Amro purchase, Itau Chief Executive Officer Roberto Egydio Setubal said in a November 2008 news conference.  Slower Growth  With Banco Santander Brasil SA’s IPO,  Spain ’s biggest bank
benefited from investor demand for Brazilian assets, raising
about $11 billion from the October 2009 offering and a sale of
convertible bonds to Qatar Holding LLC a year later.  As recently as January, Santander Brasil was worth almost
39 billion euros, the same as Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank AG,
 Germany ’s biggest bank. It now has a market value of about 29.7
billion euros. Santander has said it also wants to sell shares
in its U.K., Argentine and Mexican businesses because, in
Botin’s words, it lets them gain access to market capital
quickly while giving the group “strategic room.”  Santander’s problem is that its “fine business” in Brazil
still isn’t growing as fast as local rivals, said Clecius Peixoto, a partner at  Vinci Partners  in Sao Paulo.  Fabio Barbosa, the former head of Santander’s Brazil unit,
said in 2008 that it would become the “biggest bank in Brazil
in generation of value for shareholders” as he pledged to grow
“more than the market in revenue.”  ‘More Cautious’  Santander’s lending in Brazil last year increased 16
percent, compared with growth of more than 20 percent at
Bradesco and 19 percent at state-owned  Banco do Brasil SA. (BBAS3)   Return on equity may be a “far from desirable” 12.7
percent in the first quarter because of higher operating costs,
Marcelo Telles and Victor Schnabbel, Sao Paulo-based analysts at
Credit Suisse Group AG, said in an April 25 report. That
compares with 23 percent at Itau and 22 percent at Bradesco,
they said.  The pace of credit growth in Brazil, running at an annual
clip of more than 20 percent, has spurred inflation and led
officials to raise  interest rates  and tax consumer credit. In
Spain, bank lending expanded 55 percent between 2005 and 2008 to
fund the country’s real estate-led boom.  “For whatever reason, they decided to be a bit more
cautious than the local banks, which has hindered their
growth,” said Nomura’s Quinn.  Spain Concern  Investors have also been deterred by concern Santander will
hang onto capital to meet its needs in Spain rather than deploy
funds in  Brazil  to bolster lending, said Greg Lesko, who helps
manage about $800 million at Deltec Asset Management in  New York 
and currently holds none of the shares after being “in and
out” of the stock.  “That’s just an area of conflict you don’t have when you
don’t have a foreign parent,” he said, adding that he prefers
to hold Itau for now.  UBS AG analysts said in a March 31 report that Santander
may need 11 billion euros to boost its core Tier 1 capital ratio
to at least 9.5 percent, based on a comparison with other
systemically important lenders. The bank may need up to an
additional 5.6 billion euros to cover potential losses on
“problematic assets” in Spain, UBS said.  Botin said in Santander’s annual report, published on April
8, that retained earnings will allow the bank to reach a core
capital ratio of 9 percent by the end of this year from 8.8
percent in December.  Management Shuffle  “There is some concern about the risk associated with
Spain and how that could contaminate operations in Brazil,”
said Luciana Leocadio, an analyst at Ativa Corretora in  Rio de
Janeiro , who rates Santander Brasil “buy.” In theory,
Santander could sell more of its Brazilian unit if it needs
capital and that may be a concern for investors, said Kuhn.  Santander has shuffled management in Brazil. Barbosa, who
was tapped to lead the unit after the purchase from ABN Amro,
stepped down as CEO in December, replaced by Marcial Angel Portela Alvarez. Jose Paiva, head of retail banking, left the
unit in March as part of a shake-up to “strengthen management
to face up to growth,” Santander Brasil said in a statement.  “They have made some management changes and hopefully that
will help deliver the goods because they haven’t really done
that so far,” said Lesko.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  