-- 
Brazil Stocks Rise on Interest Rate Optimism, U.S. Confidence

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-04-26T20:28:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/bovespa-futures-fluctuate-on-commodity-drop-petrobras-advance.html
The Bovespa stock index rose,
rebounding from yesterday’s drop, as investors speculated
Brazilian borrowing costs will rise less than previously
expected and U.S. consumer confidence exceeded estimates.  Rossi Residencial SA (RSID3)  led homebuilder gains as traders drove
down yields on most interest-rate futures contracts.  Fibria
Celulose SA (FIBR3) , the world’s largest pulp producer, advanced for a
second day.  Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3) ,  Latin America ’s biggest bank by
assets, climbed after being raised to “overweight” at JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  The Bovespa stock index increased 0.3 percent to 67,144.26
at the 4:15 p.m. New York time close. Forty-one stocks rose on
the index while 25 dropped. The real strengthened 0.4 percent to
1.5624 per dollar. Brazilian stocks dropped yesterday after the
central bank raised its benchmark interest rate.  “U.S. consumer confidence is one of the most important
numbers,” said Rodrigo Mello, who helps manage 250 million
reais ($159.5 million) as partner at Oren Investimentos in Rio
de Janeiro. “There is pressure from interest rates, which has
been the principal driver. The market will be questioning
whether the readjustments in the economy will be enough to
contain long-term inflation expectations.”  Brazil ’s President  Dilma Rousseff  said today she is
“committed to controlling inflation” and that her government
is ready to take measures whenever necessary.  Rossi Residencial, Brazil’s sixth-biggest homebuilder by
revenue, advanced 2.2 percent to 15.07 reais as the  BM&FBovespa
Real Estate (IMOBBV)  Index increased 1.4 percent.  U.S. Labor Market  The Bovespa erased a drop of as much as 0.4 percent after a
report showed confidence among U.S. consumers increased more
than forecast in April, signaling the improving labor market is
helping Americans weather rising fuel costs.  The Conference Board’s confidence index rose to 65.4 from a
revised 63.8 in March, figures from the New York-based private
research group showed today. The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was an advance to 64.5.  Fibria rose 2.5 percent to 25.51 reais. Banco do Brasil
gained 1.4 percent to 29.40 reais after being raised from
“neutral” at JPMorgan.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , Brazil’s state-controlled oil
company, reversed an earlier decline, rising 0.1 percent to
26.20 reais.  Brazil’s refusal to allow higher gasoline prices is cutting
into returns of its sovereign wealth fund, whose main holdings
are Petrobras shares.  Sovereign Fund Declines  The fund, set up in December 2008 with 14.3 billion reais
in capital, lost 7.4 percent from the end of March through April
20, marking the biggest monthly decline since October, data from
Brazil’s regulator show. Petrobras voting shares, which account
for about 57 percent of the fund’s assets, fell 9.6 percent in
the period, while preferred shares that make up 23 percent of
total assets dropped 7.8 percent.  The Bovespa is down 3.1 percent this year after declines in
 oil companies , homebuilders and banks outweighed a rally in
telecom shares. The index trades at 10.7 times analysts’
earnings estimates, according to weekly data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares to a ratio of 13.8 for the Shanghai
Composite Index, 7.5 for  Russia ’s Micex, and 15.5 for  India ’s
Sensex.  Investors pulled 3.87 billion reais from Latin America’s
biggest equity market this year through April 18, data from the
 Sao Paulo  exchange show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  