-- 
Brazilian Real Approaches Highest Since 2008 on Foreign Direct Investment

-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 
2011-04-26T21:59:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/brazil-s-real-advances-on-outlook-for-fed-rate-risk-appetite.html
Brazil ’s real rose, approaching its
strongest level since August 2008, after foreign direct
investment last month exceeded forecasts, signaling increasing
demand for assets from  Latin America ’s biggest economy.  The real advanced 0.4 percent to 1.5621 per dollar at 5
p.m.  New York  time, from 1.5688 yesterday. The currency touched
1.5611 yesterday, the strongest level on an intraday basis since
Aug. 5, 2008. A majority of the 25 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg gained today against the dollar.  Brazil’s central bank said today the economy received $6.8
billion in overseas investment in March, exceeding a $4.9
billion median forecast of 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Foreign investment in Brazil is on course to reach $60 billion
this year, central bank President Alexandre Tombini said in
Brasilia today.  “There is a general movement towards more risky assets and
this benefits the real,” Vladimir Caramaschi, chief strategist
at Credit Agricole Brasil SA in Sao Paulo, said by phone. “It’s
also the continuation of the trend towards appreciation. The
data on FDI particularly was pretty strong and it suggests that
the real could continue on this trend.”  Investors are increasing their demand for higher-yielding
assets on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will decide to keep
the target U.S. rate at zero to 0.25 percent at a two-day
meeting starting today, said  Win Thin , global head of emerging-
markets strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York.  Benchmark Rates  Brazilian policy makers voted 5-2 on April 20 to raise the
benchmark Selic rate by a quarter point to 12 percent from 11.75
percent.  “It’s really still sort of a sell the dollar, buy
everything else kind of market right now,” Thin said by phone.
“It’s a very positive thing” that Brazil’s current account
deficit, which the central bank said today widened to $5.7
billion in March, can be covered by incoming foreign direct
investment, said Thin. “The current account deficit has to be
financed either through FDI or through hot money,” he said.  The central bank said it twice bought dollars in the  spot
market  today, first at 1.5642 and then at 1.5639 each. The
purchases are part of an effort by policy makers to curb the
currency’s two-year 40 percent rally. They bought $29 billion in
dollars in the spot market this year through April 15 and have
also purchased the U.S. currency in the forward market and made
bets against the real in  futures markets  in 2011.  Rate Futures  Yields on Brazilian interest-rate futures contracts
maturing after January fell after Finance Minister  Guido Mantega 
said the government should use all of its fiscal and monetary
weapons to control inflation, which ran at a 29-month high of
6.44 percent through mid-April.  The yield on the contract due in January 2017 fell the most
in more than three weeks, tumbling 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, to 12.64 percent.  “We need to use all possible weapons against inflation, be
it monetary weapons, be it fiscal weapons,” Mantega said today
at an event in Brasilia.  Yields on longer-term contracts are dropping on speculation
that the government may take more measures to control inflation
in the near-term, said Eduardo Galasini, head of proprietary
trading at Banco Banif Primus in  Sao Paulo .  Speaking at the same event as Mantega, Tombini said slowing
inflation back to the government’s target next year will require
a “prolonged” and incisive effort. “This has been determined
and will be pursued in a consistent and incisive way,” he said.  Brazil targets annual inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or
minus two percentage points. Inflation will surpass the upper
limit of the target between July and August, as the central bank
uses the range to accommodate price shocks, Carlos Hamilton, the
bank’s director of economic policy, said last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  