-- 
BrightScope Aims to Beat SEC, Finra Showing Adviser Disciplinary Actions

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 
2011-04-26T16:11:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/brightscope-aims-to-beat-sec-finra-showing-adviser-disciplinary-actions.html
BrightScope Inc. , the firm that
rates thousands of corporate 401(k)  retirement plans , is
starting a  website  that will show disciplinary histories for
financial advisers.  The firm will begin publishing today a database of
registered investment advisers and brokers that displays
customer disputes and terminations as well as assets under
management, and eventually aims to publish performance histories
and fee schedules that investors may search, Mike Alfred, co-
founder and chief executive officer of San Diego-based
BrightScope, said in an interview last week at Bloomberg
headquarters in New York.  “We see this as part and parcel of a larger movement to
provide transparency for consumers” in financial services, said
Alfred.  The site, which is free to investors, has about 450,000
listings on its database, and includes most registered
investment advisers and a majority of brokers, Alfred said. The
firm will add listings for insurance brokers, who generally are
licensed with their individual states, during the next 90 days,
Alfred said.  It can be difficult for investors to tell whether the
adviser they work with is actually any good at managing money,
said  Barbara Roper , director of investor protection for the
Washington-based  Consumer Federation of America .  No Good Source  “It’s not illegal to be not particularly competent,” said
Roper, who’s based in Pueblo,  Colorado . In financial services,
“to be drummed out of the business you do have to be guilty of
fraud.”  Currently, “there’s no good source for someone to go to
and see ‘This is reasonable, this is what I should expect to pay
if my account is this size,’” said Mark Cortazzo, senior
partner with Parsippany, New Jersey-based  Macro Consulting
Group , a registered  investment adviser .  About 25 percent of investors are considering leaving their
investment advisers in the next year, according to an April
survey by New York-based  Sullivan , an image-consulting firm, and
New York-based market-research firm  Northstar Research Partners .
Respondents said that better  investment performance  would be
their top reason to consider changing advisers.  “I don’t think most people put a lot of thought into”
choosing a financial adviser, said Mark Matson, chief executive
officer of Mason, Ohio-based  Matson Money Inc. , which manages
about $3.1 billion. “A lot of it is by referral.”  ‘Red Flags’  BrightScope’s listings eventually will show “red flags”
for investors, including whether an adviser has any disclosed
conflicts of interest and whether he or she maintains custody of
client assets, Alfred said. Bernard L. Madoff, the broker and
registered investment adviser who pleaded guilty in March 2009
to running a  Ponzi scheme , kept control of his clients’ assets
rather than using a third-party custodian such as  Charles Schwab
Corp. (SCHW)  or  Fidelity Investments .  It’s unclear how BrightScope will be able to publish
returns for advisers and brokers while complying with existing
regulations about how performance histories may be disclosed,
Alfred said. “We’re going to sit with the Securities and
Exchange Commission and we’re going to sit with the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority and talk about the regulatory
implications,” he said. Finra is the Washington-based
independent regulator for the securities industry.  Finra spokeswoman Michelle Ong and SEC spokesman  Kevin Callahan  declined to comment on the website or its plans.  BrokerCheck  Advisers listed on the site may pay a monthly subscription
fee of $100 for each individual adviser or $250 for the firm to
add a description of their business, post links to other
websites and to insert a headshot or company logo to their page,
Alfred said. Advisers won’t be able to edit their disciplinary
histories or to remove red flags from their pages, he said.  Investors also can access registered investment advisers’
ADV forms, which disclose regulatory histories and fee
schedules, on the SEC’s  website . Finra’s  BrokerCheck  website
lets investors download reports showing past disputes with
clients and any terminations.  In January the SEC released a  study  recommending unifying
search results for the Finra and SEC databases.  Independent registered investment advisers managed about
$1.5 trillion in total assets, representing about 12 percent of
all wealth-management assets in the U.S., at the end of 2009,
the most recent year for which data is available, according to
Boston-based research firm  Aite Group . Assets held with
independent advisers rose about 1.5 percent during 2009, as
assets held with traditional brokers fell about 0.9 percent, to
$4.7 trillion, according to Aite data.  Fee Basis  Registered investment advisers may provide investment
advice or management and other financial-planning services,
typically on a fee basis, and are regulated by either the SEC or
state regulators. Brokers may perform similar services on a fee
or commission basis and are typically regulated by Finra.  BrightScope manages and maintains a database of about
50,000 defined-contribution retirement plans, which represent
about 90 percent of all defined-contribution assets in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in  New York    eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 