-- 
Broadcom Drops as Sales Forecast Misses Analysts’ Estimates

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-04-27T20:30:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/broadcom-second-quarter-sales-to-miss-analysts-estimates-shares-decline.html
Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) , the biggest maker
of chips for television set-top boxes, declined after the
company forecast second-quarter revenue that missed analysts’
estimates, citing a slowdown in sales to mobile-phone makers.  The shares dropped $4.96, or 12 percent, to $35.45 at 4
p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock had
fallen 7.2 percent this year before today.  Broadcom’s wireless and consumer-electronics customers are
facing steeper competition, with Nokia Oyj and Samsung
Electronics Co. each reporting lower profit in the recent
quarter. Some of Broadcom’s TV-systems clients were also
affected by the March 11 earthquake and tsunami in Japan, said
Doug Freedman, an analyst at Gleacher & Co.  “This company has had a lot of issues crop up,” said
Freedman, who rates Broadcom shares “buy.” “Some of their
smartphone customers -- Samsung and Nokia -- didn’t have great
quarters.”  Revenue in the current period will be $1.75 billion to
$1.85 billion,  Irvine , California-based Broadcom said yesterday
in a statement. That compared with the average analyst estimate
of $1.89 billion, according to a Bloomberg survey. A year
earlier, sales were $1.6 billion.  Sales in the first quarter rose 24 percent to $1.82
billion, compared with analysts’ average estimate of $1.81
billion. Net income increased to $228 million, or 40 cents a
share, from $210 million, or 40 cents, a year earlier, Broadcom
said.  The company’s gross margin -- the percentage of sales left
after subtracting production costs -- was 51 percent in the
first quarter, in line with analysts’ estimates.  “The quarter was fine, but the guidance was light,” Stacy A. Rasgon, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. who has a
“market perform” rating on the stock, said in an interview
yesterday. “This is a stock investors are buying because they
want revenue growth. I don’t know if this is a one-quarter blip
or a longer-term story.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  