-- 
Brown Bars ‘Nonessential’ Travel by California Workers to Save on Costs

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-04-26T21:38:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/brown-bars-nonessential-travel-by-california-workers-to-save-on-costs.html
California  Governor  Jerry Brown 
ordered an end to “nonessential” travel by employees, saying
the expense can’t be justified in a time of fiscal austerity.  Brown issued an executive order prohibiting travel unless
it is “mission-critical” or has no cost to the government. All
in-state travel requires approval from agency secretaries, and
out-of-state trips must be approved by the governor’s office.  Brown last week ordered agencies to begin collecting an
estimated $13.3 million in travel and salary advancements to
employees that weren’t valid or repaid.  “Our fiscal challenges demand that we take a much closer
look at how taxpayer dollars are being spent within state
government,” Brown said in a statement today. “Now is not the
time to attend conferences, travel to meetings or take out-of-
state field trips, and this executive order puts an end to it.”  The  governor’s office  hasn’t estimated how much money the
order will save. Gil Duran, a Brown spokesman, said by phone
today that agencies haven’t tracked travel costs in a uniform
way. Duran couldn’t immediately answer whether the travel ban
would apply to state pension systems.  “It’s been hard to nail down how much has been spent on
travel,” Duran said.  Brown, a 73-year-old Democrat, worked with lawmakers to
reduce the state’s estimated $25.4 billion  budget deficit  to
about $15 billion through cuts to health care, education and
other programs.  The governor has been traveling around California, the most
populous state, to persuade Republican lawmakers to approve his
proposal for a ballot measure that would extend $11 billion in
tax and fee increases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  