-- 
Canon Lowers Profit, Sales Forecasts After Earthquake Disrupts Production

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-04-26T08:03:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/canon-lowers-profit-sales-forecasts-after-earthquake-disrupts-production.html
Canon Inc. (7751) , the world’s largest
maker of cameras, cut its annual profit and sales forecasts
after Japan’s March disaster disrupted production.  Net income in the year ending in December will probably
fall 11 percent to 220 billion yen ($2.7 billion), Tokyo-based
Canon said in a statement today, abandoning its previous
forecast for a 26 percent increase. Canon also cut its
projections for operating profit and revenue.  The disaster will cost about 314.4 billion yen in lost
sales and 197.7 billion yen in operating income this year, said
Canon, Japan’s largest manufacturer by market value to revise
earnings projections since last month. The earthquake and
tsunami disrupted the company’s production of cameras, lenses,
inkjet printer devices and chip-making equipment.  “Disruption of the supplier network has lead to low
utilization rates at Canon’s factories and there may be a
significant drop in the rate through April to May,” said
Yukihiro Goto, a Tokyo-based analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd.
“The supply chain problem will probably improve largely from
June.”  The shares fell 0.9 percent to 3,495 yen in Tokyo trading,
before the earnings announcement, extending this year’s decline
to 17 percent.  The maker of PowerShot and Ixus and compact cameras slashed
its sales target to 20 million units from 23 million. Canon kept
its annual target for cameras with interchangeable lens at 7
million units.  ‘Uncertainties Remain’  “Many uncertainties remain, such as the negative impact of
the earthquake in northeastern  Japan , further appreciation of
fuel prices and the financial crises in some European
countries,” Canon said in the statement. Emerging markets in
 Asia , such as China and  India  are expected to continue
“healthy” growth, it said.  Canon’s first-quarter net income fell 2.3 percent to 55.5
billion yen, while revenue gained 11 percent. Operating income
at the office-equipment division, Canon’s biggest by revenue,
declined 13 percent, while earnings at the consumer operations
declined 16 percent.  The company is also bracing for outages as Tokyo Electric
Power Co., owner of the crippled Fukushima nuclear plant,
struggles to meet demand after last month’s disaster knocked out
power stations.  Power Headache  “The issue of power supply is giving us a headache on top
of the supply-chain issue,” Toshizo Tanaka, a Canon executive
vice president, told reporters in  Tokyo . “We don’t know yet if
it’s going to be a 25 percent reduction or 30 percent. We’ll do
all we can but the key is to maintain our production level.”  Power outage has been affecting Canon’s suppliers making
electronic components, Tanaka said. Some components take a
continuous 40-hour production and an outage disrupts supply of
such components, he said.  Canon is considering diversifying suppliers and to make
some components in-house, he said.  Canon, which generated 81 percent of sales outside Japan
last year, revised its assumptions for the yen exchange rate to
the euro to 120 yen for the nine months from April 1, compared
with 110 yen projected three months ago. The company kept
unchanged its assumption for the dollar at 85 yen.  The world’s second-largest printer maker loses about 10.1
billion yen of operating profit a year for every 1 yen decline
in the value of the dollar and 5.8 billion yen of income for
each 1 yen decline by the euro, the company  said  in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 