-- 
CapitaLand Profit Triples After Restating Net Income in First-Quarter 2010

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-04-26T00:40:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/capitaland-profit-triples-after-restating-net-income-in-first-quarter-2010.html
CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL) , Southeast  Asia ’s
biggest developer, said first-quarter net income rose more than
three times after it restated last year’s earnings.  Net income increased to S$101.5 million ($82 million) in
the three months ended March 31, from the restated S$29.8
million a year earlier, the Singapore-based company said today
in a statement to the city-state’s stock exchange. CapitaLand
restated last year’s results to comply with an accounting policy
that became effective Jan. 1, it said. Last year’s first-quarter
net profit, before it was restated, was S$115.4 million.  Revenue climbed 39 percent to S$611.5 million from a year
earlier because of higher contributions from residential,
commercial and industrial projects in Singapore,  China  and
 Australia , the company said. The three markets accounted for 96
percent of the company’s earnings before interest and taxes in
the first quarter, CapitaLand said.  “Asia, with its stronger fundamentals, growing domestic
demand and rising income levels, continues to present many
opportunities for the group to expand its businesses in the core
markets,” Richard Hu, chairman of CapitaLand, said in the
statement. “Given its strong balance sheet, CapitaLand is
actively pursuing further investment opportunities to lay an
even firmer foundation for future, sustainable growth.”  Ascott, the company’s serviced residence unit, plans to
invest S$1 billion in Asia and  Europe  this year and is set to
achieve 40,000 apartment units globally by 2015, Liew Mun Leong,
chief executive officer of CapitaLand, said in the statement.  Housing Pipeline  CapitaLand said it has a 15 percent share of the  Singapore 
private housing market and aims to sell 1,700 apartment units in
2011. The company has a pipeline of 2,700 homes in the city with
more than 4 million square feet of space for the next two to
three years, it said in a slide presentation.  Singapore’s first-quarter private  home prices  rose by a
revised 2.2 percent from the previous three months, slowing for
a sixth quarter, according to data from the  Urban Redevelopment
Authority  yesterday. The government added new measures this year
to curb speculation after policies last year failed to prevent
home prices from rising to a record.  The developer also aims to double its investments in  India 
to more than S$300 million, according to the slide presentation.
CapitaLand has S$28.1 billion of assets, with China having the
biggest share at 37 percent, followed by Singapore with 35
percent, it said in the slide presentation.  CapitaLand will continue to develop  Vietnam  into its
“fourth core market over time in a measured and calibrated
manner, in line with the macroeconomic situation and market
developments there,” Liew said.  Vietnam’s Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung has lowered the
target for credit growth to less than 20 percent this year from
an earlier goal of 23 percent to curb the availability of cash
in the system. Consumer prices climbed 17.51 percent from a year
earlier, the most since December 2008, after rising 13.89
percent in March, the General Statistics Office said on April 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at  