-- 
Jimmy Carter Arrives in North Korea to Push for Nuclear Disarmament Talks

-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 
2011-04-26T02:39:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/carter-arrives-in-north-korea-to-push-nuclear-disarmament-talks.html
Former U.S. President  Jimmy Carter 
arrived in North Korea on his second trip to the country in less
than a year to help push forward stalled multinational talks on
curbing the regime’s development of atomic weapons.  The arrival of Carter, 86, was reported by North Korea’s
official Korea Central News Agency today. He was accompanied by
former Finnish President Martti Ahtisaari, 73, ex-Norwegian
Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland, 72, and former Irish
President Mary Robinson, 66. The mission is aimed at easing
tensions on the Korean peninsula and addressing food shortages,
the group, which calls itself “The Elders,” said on April 24.  “At a time when official dialogue with the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea appears to be at a standstill, we aim
to see how we may be of assistance in reducing tensions and help
the parties address key issues including denuclearization,”
Carter said in the April 24 statement, referring to  North Korea 
by its official name.  North Korea has reported progress on its nuclear programs
even after the  United Nations  toughened sanctions, disclosing in
November a capability to enrich uranium that provides a second
means of making weapons. Tensions rose on the Korean peninsula
after two attacks last year that killed 50 South Koreans,
including the November shelling of an island near the civil-war
foes’ disputed western sea border that left four dead.  “Carter can help provide a turning point in the stalled
dialogue with North Korea as he acts as a messenger,” said Yang Moo Jin, a professor at the University of North Korean Studies
in Seoul. “The U.S. wouldn’t want to wait forever for inter-
Korean relations to improve at the risk of jeopardizing nuclear
disarmament talks.”  Detainee Too  The trip also comes after North Korea said it is preparing
to indict a detained U.S. citizen. Jun Young Su has admitted the
alleged charges since he was arrested in November, KCNA reported
on April 14.  Carter won the release of another imprisoned American
during his last trip to North Korea in August. He traveled to
Pyongyang in 1994 when he met with leader  Kim Jong Il ’s father,
 Kim Il Sung , and discussed terms to freeze the country’s nuclear
program.  North Korea’s negotiations with  China ,  Japan ,  Russia ,  South
Korea  and the U.S. on its nuclear weapons programs were last
held in December 2008. Kim’s regime has since detonated a second
atomic device in May 2009 and shown a previously unknown
uranium-enrichment program to visiting U.S. scholars in November.  Doors Open  “Our doors to dialogue are wide open. Whether the North
steps into that room of dialogue is completely up to them,”
South Korean Unification Minister Hyun In Taek said yesterday in
Seoul. Hyun said North Korea must assume responsibility for last
year’s attacks before relations with South  Korea  can improve.  North Korea denies any role in the sinking of the South
Korean warship Cheonan in March 2010 that claimed the lives of
46 sailors. It also says it shelled Yeonpyeong Island because
South Korea’s live-firing exercises violated its territory.  Kim’s government also said its uranium-enrichment facility
was aimed at developing civilian nuclear power in a country that
suffers from chronic electricity shortages.  Carter will travel to North Korea “in a strictly private
capacity,” without carrying any official message from the
government, U.S. State Department spokesman Mark Toner said
March 24. The U.S. described Carter’s last trip to Pyongyang as
a private mission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in  Seoul  at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  