-- 
McGraw-Hill First-Quarter Net Income Rises on Demand for Credit Ratings

-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 
2011-04-26T14:22:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/mcgraw-hill-s-net-income-rises-on-demand-for-credit-ratings-1-.html
McGraw-Hill Cos., the publisher and
provider of financial data, said first-quarter profit rose on
demand for bond ratings from its  Standard & Poor’s  unit.  Net income rose 16 percent to $120 million, or 39 cents a
share, from $103.3 million, or 33 cents, a year earlier, the New
York-based company said in a statement. Profit beat the 37-
cents-a-share average estimate of six analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Standard & Poor’s, which generated 35 percent of the
company’s revenue and 89 percent of its operating profit, is
benefiting from an increase in new bond issues, said  Peter Appert , an analyst at Piper Jaffray & Co. in  San Francisco .
Revenue from McGraw-Hill’s financial services segment grew 16
percent after its September acquisition of TheMarkets.com, a
stock-research company.  “The S&P business really drives the profitability,”
Appert said in a phone interview. “The debt markets have roared
back to life after a near-death experience in 2008, 2009.”  First-quarter revenue rose 7.7 percent to $1.28 billion,
from $1.19 billion a year earlier, according to the statement.  McGraw-Hill fell 85 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $38.74 at
10:19 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have gained 8.3 percent this year through yesterday.  McGraw-Hill maintained its forecast of earnings per share
of $2.79 to $2.89 per share.  ‘Good Start’  “It’s just one quarter, the start of the year,” said
Harold “Terry” McGraw, chairman and chief executive officer,
said on a conference call with analysts. “What’s pleasing is
that it’s a good start and everything is falling into shape the
way we were hoping it would.”  McGraw-Hill’s textbook publishing business, which made up
40 percent of its 2010 revenue, had a loss in the first quarter
because schools don’t order classroom material until later in
the year, said Appert, who has an “overweight” rating on the
company’s shares.  “The valuation of the stock is negatively impacted by the
education business,” Appert said.  McGraw-Hill’s textbook business faces uncertainties as
state and local governments struggle to fund education, Appert
said. School districts are reluctant to spend on materials when
they are unable to pay teachers’ salaries, he said.  “When push comes to shove, the last thing they want to do
is fire Mrs. Jones when you can defer spending on textbooks,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  