-- 
Venezuela to Charge 95% Tax on Oil When Prices Are Above $100 a Barrel

-- B y   C o r i n a   P o n s   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 
2011-04-26T21:03:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/chavez-to-charge-windfall-tax-on-venezuelan-oil-over-40-1-.html
Venezuela ,  South America ’s largest
OPEC oil producer, will charge an increased windfall tax in lieu
of royalties as long as crude trades above $70 a barrel.  The South American nation is swapping out its old system of
royalties and will instead charge a higher levy of 80 percent or
95 percent on revenue above $70 and $100 a barrel, respectively,
Oil Minister Rafael Ramirez said. If prices fall to between $40
and $70, producers will face both the standard 33 percent
royalty and a 20 percent windfall tax, according to a
presidential decree published in today’s Official Gazette.  " Oil companies  are doing well," Ramirez said today at a
press conference in Caracas. "I have the revenue and profit
numbers, and this windfall tax is not going to hurt them."  Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  announced April 21 that he
was expanding the levy. Foreign producers in joint ventures with
state-run Petroleos de Venezuela SA, which Chavez has said will
help halt declining output, won’t pay the tax on new projects
and expanded wells until they have recovered their investments,
according to the decree.  Oil for June delivery settled today at $112.21 a barrel on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Oil has gained 33 percent in
the past year. Yesterday, futures touched $113.48, the highest
intraday price since Sept. 22, 2008.  Companies operating in Venezuela are expected to profit
even with the higher payments to the government because
production costs have declined to $5 from $7 a barrel, Ramirez
said. The decree expands a windfall tax created in 2008.  Ramirez said he expects joint venture partners to obtain
financing from European banks next month for works to increase
output.  “They say that oil countries become intoxicated with money
and end up catching ‘Dutch Disease’," Ramirez said, referring to
a term used to describe the downfall of some sectors such as
manufacturing as a nation benefits from a commodities boom. "But
these oil profits are not going to do us damage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net 
Nathan Crooks in Santiago at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  