-- 
Chelsea Planning to Bid for Tottenham’s Gareth Bale, Mirror Says: Roundup

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-04-26T10:03:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/chelsea-planning-to-bid-for-tottenham-s-gareth-bale-mirror-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Bale Bid?  Chelsea is planning to make a 40 million-pound ($66
million) offer for Tottenham’s  Gareth Bale ,  the Daily Mirror 
reported.  The Blues could boost their chances of landing the winger
by hurting Tottenham’s hopes of qualifying for the Champions
League when the two sides meet next weekend, according to the
Mirror.  Chelsea also wants to recruit Ajax right-back Gregory van
der Wiel and a “big-name” central midfielder, the newspaper
added.  Spending Curb  Manchester City owner Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed al Nahyan
will curb transfer spending to the lowest amount since his 2008
takeover when the transfer window reopens, the  Daily Telegraph 
reported.  City’s recruitment will be financed by the likely sales of
 Carlos Tevez ,  Emmanuel Adebayor , Shay Given,  Wayne Bridge ,  Shaun
Wright-Phillips ,  Roque Santa Cruz  and Jo, which should generate
70 million pounds, the newspaper said.  The belt-tightening has been forced on the team by new
rules on finances being brought in by European soccer’s
governing body, the Telegraph said. The newspaper said
 Manchester City  spent more than 125 million pounds in
consecutive off-season transfer windows in 2009 and 2010.  ‘Dirty Match’  Wolves captain Karl Henry is predicting tonight’s game with
Stoke City will be an “ugly match,” the  Daily Mail  reported.  Wolves are battling relegation from the Premier League and
Henry said the team will fight to secure three points against
the F.A. Cup finalists, according to the Mail.  “I’m sure it’s going to be a really dirty game,” the
newspaper quoted Henry saying. “It’s going to be an ugly, dirty
match. Both teams will be kicking lumps out of each other. But
you won’t find us complaining.”  Twitter Rage  Abuse from supporters of his own team forced Manchester
United midfielder Darron Gibson to quit Twitter within two hours
of joining the social media website,  the Mail  reported.  The Irish midfielder’s “DGibbo28” account disappeared
after United fans “flooded it with abuse,” the newspaper said.  Arsenal Quest  Arsenal will strengthen its team in an effort to snap a
six-season run without a trophy,  the Mirror  said.  Defeat at Bolton two days ago has left the Gunners nine
points behind Premier League leader Manchester United with four
matches left. Its efforts to win a first league title since 2004
had been dented with six draws in nine matches prior to the
defeat at the Reebok Stadium.  “We have to strengthen the squad where it needs and make
the right decision on that front,” coach  Arsene Wenger  was
quoted as saying by the newspaper. “It is always in my mind
every day.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  