-- 
Chilean Peso Reaches Strongest in Three Years, Passing Intervention Level

-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 
2011-04-26T19:37:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/chilean-peso-reaches-strongest-in-three-years-passing-intervention-level.html
Chile ’s peso rose to the strongest
in three years, pushing through the level that prompted the
central bank to start buying dollars, as the greenback slumped
against the currencies of major U.S. trading partners.  The peso advanced 1.1 percent, the biggest gain among 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg, to 462.67 per
 U.S. dollar , the highest level since April 2008.  The peso reached 465.75 on Jan. 3, prompting the central
bank to announce a $12 billion dollar-buying plan to slow its
gains. The central bank has raised interest rates by 1.25
percentage points in 2011 as economic growth has accelerated,
partly undoing its own efforts.  “The snap we saw today has been a while in the making, the
peso had been lagging and this was partly catch-up” said Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a currency strategist at RBS Securities Inc.
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The dollar story has been very
powerful this week.”  Chile’s central bank has lifted its benchmark interest rate
by 4 percentage points in the past 12 months, more than any
other rate-setter tracked by Bloomberg.  Chile’s interest-rate swap curve has flattened since the
bank’s last half-point rate increase on April 12 as traders
price in higher rates in the next six months, and lower long-
term average interest rates.  The three-month swap rate rose 29 basis points, or 0.29
percentage point, to 5.08 percent today from 4.79 percent on
April 12. The six-month rate increased 18 basis points to 5.41
percent from 5.23 percent on April 12. Both rates fell today
from yesterday.  Dollar Purchasing  The central bank may increase its daily dollar purchasing,
said  Osvaldo Cruz , an economist at Banco de Credito &
Inversiones in Santiago. . The bank is due to publish its next
calendar of dollar-buying and bond auctions by May 9.  “There’s a growing differential of rates with the
dollar,” Cruz said. “The appreciation will continue unless the
central bank reinforces its intervention. There could be an
increase in daily purchases.”  Increased intervention is unlikely, Cattan-Naslausky said.  Chile’s terms of trade have weakened since Jan. 3. The
price of copper, which makes up more than half the country’s
exports, has fallen while oil, its biggest import, has surged.  The peso’s appreciation against the dollar has been similar
to other commodity-exporting currencies, central bank President
Jose De Gregorio said today, according to notes published on the
bank’s website. Chile isn’t facing the kind of significant net
capital inflows that have triggered the introduction of  capital
controls  in other countries, he said.  Foreign investors in the Chilean peso forwards market
increased bets against the peso to $1.5 billion on April 21 from
a two-month low of $832 million on April 20, according to
central bank data.  The central bank today auctioned two-year and five-year
bonds in pesos, paying 6.04 percent on the two-year bonds, the
most since 2008. The 6.32 percent yield on the five years is
less than it has paid to borrow for five years in all other
auctions this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  