-- 
China Plans to Shut More Smaller-Capacity Oil Refining Units

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-26T09:13:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/china-plans-to-shut-more-smaller-capacity-oil-refining-units-1-.html
China , the world’s biggest
greenhouse gas emitter, will shut crude distillation units with
capacity of less than 2 million metric tons a year by the end of
2013 as it phases out smaller and more-polluting refineries.  The government will restrict construction of crude-
processing units with capacity of less than 10 million tons a
year, according to  directives  for industrial development issued
by the National Development and Reform Commission today.  China has been closing small refineries to increase
efficiency in fuel production and reduce pollution from older
plants. The government ordered the shutting of oil-processing
units with capacity of less than 1 million tons a year under its
2005 industrial development  plan .  The government will also limit the construction of
gasoline-making units such as catalytic crackers and
hydrocrackers of less than 1.5 million tons in annual capacity
and cyclic reformers with capacity of less than 1 million tons a
year, the NDRC said.  The phase-out plan will reduce the capacity of China’s
privately owned oil-processing plants. The largest of the so-
called teapot refineries, the Changyi facility in eastern
Shandong province, has a capacity of 8 million tons a year,
according to data published in May by China Petrochemical Corp.,
the parent of  Asia ’s biggest refiner. The 10th-biggest teapot
plant has an annual capacity of 2 million tons, the data show.  Teapot refineries account for about 10 percent of China’s
total fuel output, said  Qiu Xiaofeng , an analyst at Beijing-
based Galaxy Securities Co. High crude prices this year have
eroded profitability at those non-state-owned plants, causing
them to cut back on production and squeezing domestic fuel
supplies, Qiu said on April 19.  The NDRC, the country’s top economic planner, also removed
coal-to-gas and coal-to-liquid projects from its list of
encouraged industries, according to today’s statement.  --Chua Baizhen. Editors: Ryan Woo,  Jane Lee .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net . 