-- 
China May Buy More Sugar to Curb Fastest Inflation in Almost Three Years

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-26T03:13:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/china-may-import-more-sugar-as-production-drops-top-planning-agency-says.html
China, the world's biggest sugar 
consumer after  India , may seek more imports after buying a 
“substantial” amount to help curb inflation as output drops
for a third year, according to the top economic planning agency.  While the country has sufficient stockpiles, it’ll be
“happy” to see more purchases as foreign sugar costs less
than domestic supplies, Liu Xiaonan, deputy head of the economy
and trade division at the National Development and Reform
Commission, said at a conference yesterday.  Increased imports may bolster raw-sugar prices in New 
York that dropped 27 percent this year and cool the fastest 
inflation in China since 2008. Local output may drop to 10.5
million metric tons this year from 10.74 million on frost 
and labor shortages, the  China  Sugar Association said.  “All eyes are on the policy front given that the
production shortfall now becomes clear,” said Axl Wang, Beijing
research manager at Wanda Futures Co. China announced a 1.94
million ton, sugar-import quota at the start of the year and has
yet to award most of that to qualified companies, Wang said.  China may buy as much as 1.8 million tons of sugar from
overseas over the next four months,  Australia  and New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. said on April 18. Prices in some provinces of
China are now more than 50 cents per pound, it said.  White-sugar futures on China’s Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange
have advanced 36 percent in the past year to 6,815 yuan ($1,044)
a ton at 10:45 a.m. in Beijing today. In  London , refined sugar 
for August delivery closed little changed at $639.10 a ton on
NYSE Liffe on April 21.  ‘Top Priority’  “The government has made it a top priority this year to
ensure supply and maintain price stability,” Liu said at the
conference in Kunming. “We have taken the opportunity to import
a substantial amount of sugar and now have enough stockpiles to
plug the production shortfall.”  The government can “easily ensure 1.2 million tons of
sugar supply” from stockpiles until the new crop is available
next season, Ding Shuwang, deputy head of the market-control
division under the Ministry of Commerce, said in Kunming, citing
China’s increasing capacity to process raw-sugar imports into
refined sweetener. The government sold 760,000 tons from its
reserves since the year that began on Nov. 1, NDRC’s Liu said.  Sugar demand in China may reach more than 13.5 million tons
this year, down from an estimated 13.78 million tons a year ago,
as record prices encouraged the use of cheaper substitutes such
as corn syrup and eroded affordability for low-income consumers,
said Liu Hande, head of Guangdong Sugar Association.  Inflation in China may rise about 4.5 percent this year,
exceeding a 4 percent government target, the Xinhua News Agency
said yesterday, citing Chen Dongqi, deputy chief of the
Macroeconomic Research Institute under the NDRC. In March,
consumer prices rose 5.4 percent from a year earlier, according
to government data. Food prices jumped 11.7 percent last month.  --Feiwen Rong. Editors: Jake Lloyd-Smith, Thomas Abraham  To contact the reporter on this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  