-- 
China Construction Bank Said to Express Interest in Buying Malaysia’s EON

-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 
2011-04-26T07:39:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/china-construction-bank-said-to-express-interest-in-buying-malaysia-s-eon.html
China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the
world’s second-largest lender by market value, has expressed
interest in buying  Malaysia ’s  EON Capital Bhd. (EON) , two people with
knowledge of the matter said.  The Beijing-based bank sent a letter to Malaysia’s central
bank asking for permission to start talks with some or all of
the major shareholders of EON Capital, the people said, asking
not to be identified because discussions are private. A bid by
Construction Bank would rival an existing 5.06 billion ringgit
($1.7 billion) offer from Malaysian billionaire Quek Leng Chen’s
 Hong Leong Bank Bhd. (HLBK) , which has been approved by minority
shareholders and local authorities.  Construction Bank plans to make a “substantial
investment” in Malaysia and aims to provide a wide range of
banking services to businesses to support their investments and
funding needs in  China , according to the April 11 letter, which
was obtained by Bloomberg News. Yu Baoyue, a press officer at
the lender, declined to comment.  Primus Pacific Partners Ltd., EON’s biggest shareholder,
and Construction Bank have held initial discussions on the
matter though no formal talks have started, the people said.
Should the negotiations proceed, Construction Bank is prepared
to make an offer higher than EON Capital’s current market
capitalization of $1.64 billion, they said.  Reuters reported on the letter yesterday, citing an
unidentified person.  Overseas Push  An acquisition would be Construction Bank’s first purchase
outside mainland China since it bought a Hong Kong unit of
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  for $70 million in November
2009. Larger rival  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (1398)  Ltd.,
which also aims to bolster overseas operations, earlier this
year agreed to buy a U.S. retail bank.  EON Capital “is not aware of this matter and is not in a
position to comment on any speculation,” the lender said in an
e-mailed statement to Bloomberg News today. Bank Negara Malaysia,
the country’s central bank, said in a statement to Bloomberg
that as a matter of policy it doesn’t comment on individual
institutions. A spokeswoman for Primus, who declined to be
identified, had no comment.  Shares of Construction Bank fell 0.3 percent to HK$7.46 at
3:16 p.m. in Hong Kong. EON Capital’s shares rose 0.9 percent to
7.13 ringgit, while Hong Leong’s fell 1.4 percent to 10.26
ringgit, set for their lowest close in almost three weeks.  Construction Bank hopes to “secure the highest possible
equity ownership” in EON Capital should the central bank
approve its application to undertake the takeover discussions,
the letter said.  Court Ruling  Malaysia limits foreign ownership of commercial banks to a
maximum 30 percent.  Industrial & Commercial  Bank of China Ltd. (601988) , the world’s
biggest lender by market capitalization, started its own
commercial banking operations in the commodities-rich country in
April last year after winning a commercial banking license
following a visit by Chinese President  Hu Jintao  in 2009. The
Beijing-based lender was the first overseas lender to get a
permit since Bank of China Ltd. nine years ago.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  will visit for two days from
tomorrow when the two countries are expected to sign further
agreements aimed at boosting trade and investment.  ‘Remote’ Chance  “We believe the possibility of China Construction bank
acquiring a strategic stake in EON Capital is remote,” Rachel Huang, an analyst at AmResearch Sdn. wrote in a report today.
“Both EON Capital and Hong Leong Bank had received approvals
from both  Bank Negara Malaysia  and the Ministry of Finance in
July 2010 for their proposed merger.”  Primus, which owns 20.2 percent of the Kuala Lumpur-based
lender, has sued EON and nine of its directors and sought 1.11
billion ringgit in damages if the lender proceeds with the
planned takeover by Hong Leong. A judge is scheduled to deliver
his verdict in the case in Penang, Malaysia, on April 28.  The Hong Kong-based investment fund opposes the deal having
paid 9.55 ringgit a share for its stake in 2008. That’s 31
percent more than Hong Leong’s all-cash offer of 7.30 ringgit
per share, or a total difference of 315 million ringgit, based
on data compiled by Bloomberg.  A Malaysian court in January ruled that a vote by EON
Capital’s shareholders in favor of Hong Leong’s bid was valid,
thwarting efforts Primus to block the sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  