-- 
China Bank Rules, Chemical Law Review, UTI Halt: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-04-26T12:01:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/china-bank-rules-chemical-law-review-uti-halted-compliance.html
China ’s  banking regulator  set
capital targets for the nation’s five biggest lenders above the
minimum 11.5 percent ratio amid concern that credit risks may
rise, three people with knowledge of the matter said.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (1398)  Ltd., the world’s
largest lender, and three rivals were told last month to
maintain capital adequacy ratios of at least 11.8 percent in
2011, one of the people said, declining to be identified as the
plan isn’t public.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (1288) , the nation’s
fourth-biggest, should target 11.7 percent, two of them said.  The move may help China’s policy makers curb loan growth
after inflation accelerated and real estate prices rose
following a $2.7 trillion two-year credit boom. The central bank
this month raised the amount of deposits lenders must set aside
to the highest in at least two decades, while the banking
regulator ordered a new round of stress tests on property loans.  The China Banking Regulatory Commission “has set
differentiated targets and ‘triggers’ on the five banks’ capital
levels, with the target for all the banks’ capital adequacy
ratios being no lower than the 11.5 percent minimum,” the
watchdog said in an e-mailed response to questions April 24.  The regulator also set differentiated targets last month
including loan-to-deposit ratios for the five banks, which
include  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) ,  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  and
Bank of Communications Co., following discussions with the
lenders, the people said. The watchdog plans to amend those
requirements every year, they said.  For more, click here, and see Interviews section, below.  Compliance Policy  Decades-Old Chemical Laws Must be Revised for Kids, Doctors Say  Environmental regulators should be able to demand more
safety data about toxic chemicals and halt sales if the products
are suspected of harming children or pregnant women, the
 American Academy of Pediatrics  said.  The doctors group, based in Elk Grove Village, Illinois,
called yesterday for an overhaul of a 1976 statute that requires
companies to notify the U.S.  Environmental Protection Agency 
before manufacturing the products and to test them when concerns
arise. The group’s policy statement is published in the journal
Pediatrics.  Chemical companies such as  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , based in
Midland, Michigan, produce or import about 27 trillion pounds of
products each year, the statement said. Children’s smaller
bodies take in proportionately more toxins that may be in air or
water than adults, and changes as they grow make them more
vulnerable to chemical exposures, according to the academy.  The academy wants testing to include studies on
reproductive and developmental toxicity as well as post-market
surveillance on the effects of a chemical. They also call for
additional federal research to evaluate the effects of child
exposure to chemicals.  Congress didn’t act when the EPA made six suggestions in
2009 about modifying the Toxic Substances Control Act of 1976.  The EPA will lose $1.6 billion as part of a deal between
President Barack Obama and congressional leaders to produce $38
billion in spending cuts for the rest of the 2011 fiscal year,
according to legislation made public April 12.  For more, click here.  U.K. Fraud Office Future Said to Create Cabinet-Level Split  The future of the U.K.  Serious Fraud Office , which
prosecutes Ponzi schemes and corruption, has created a rift
among government leaders with some officials giving late support
to its bid to remain as a stand-alone agency, according to two
people familiar with the talks.  The solicitor general supports SFO Director Richard
Alderman’s plan to preserve the agency and give it expanded
powers, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the talks are private. The Home Office, in a report as soon as
next month, may recommend abolishing the SFO and combining part
of it with the Crown Prosecution Service, the people said.  The SFO has been under siege since  Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne announced plans to fold the department
into an economic crime agency last year. While Osborne dropped
his initial plans for a white-collar fraud prosecutor that also
took insider-trading enforcement from financial regulators, the
SFO’s future is still in doubt.  Home Office spokesman Andrew Bell said that no decisions
have been made on the crime agency or on whether the Home Office
will propose any changes. An announcement won’t come until after
local elections next month, he said. The Home Office is the lead
agency for counter-terrorism, policing and crime policies.  For more, click here.  Korean Banks Asked to Lower Bad-Loan Ratio to Below 1.5 Percent  South Korean banks will be asked to lower the ratio of bad
loans to outstanding credit to less than 1.5 percent this year,
from 1.7 percent last year, the  Financial Supervisory Service 
said today in an e-mailed statement. The regulator also asked
lenders to maintain a sufficient amount of reserves against
possible bad debt, the statement said.  Compliance Action  UTI Worldwide Latest Stock Halted by Circuit Breakers  UTI Worldwide Inc. (UTIW)  became the latest stock to be
interrupted by circuit breakers when trading in the stock was
halted yesterday.  The curbs were created after the 20-minute rout on May 6,
2010, erased $862 billion from the value of U.S. shares before
prices rebounded. The pause lasts five minutes for Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and Russell 1000 Index companies as well as
more than 300 exchange-traded funds when they rise or fall at
least 10 percent within five minutes.  New rules proposed by exchanges on April 5 would shift the
market to a limit-up/limit-down system that prevents shares from
moving more than a certain amount.  For a table listing the securities that have been halted by
U.S. circuit breakers since they were implemented in June 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, click here.  Apple, Google Privacy Meeting Sought by Illinois’s Madigan  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  executives were asked to meet
with Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan to discuss reports
their products collect, store and can relay information about
their users’ locations.  Madigan wrote to both companies asking what information
they store, its purposes and for how long, according to a
statement issued yesterday by her office.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , is the maker of
iPhone mobile telephones and iPad computer tablets, each of
which was cited in the attorney general’s statement, as was the
Android software developed by Google for use in mobile phones.  Aaron Zamost, a spokesman for Mountain View, California-
based Google, didn’t immediately reply to voice-mail and e-mail
messages seeking comment. Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple,
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  MetLife Subpoenaed by California in Probe of Unpaid Benefits  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life insurer, was  subpoenaed 
by California regulators reviewing whether the company cheated
policyholders’ survivors.  “MetLife failed to pay life insurance policy benefits to
named beneficiaries or the state even after learning that an
insured had died,”  California Insurance  Commissioner Dave Jones
said yesterday in a  statement , citing preliminary findings from
a state audit on the New York-based company.  Jones and California Controller John Chiang are widening a
probe into whether life insurers held funds that were owed to
beneficiaries or, in cases when they couldn’t be located, to the
state. Jones demanded in the subpoena that MetLife send a
representative to a May 23 hearing in Sacramento into the
insurer’s conduct.  Christopher Breslin, a spokesman for MetLife, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  Courts  Supreme Court Won’t Expedite Review of U.S. Health-Care Law  The U.S. Supreme Court yesterday declined an opportunity to
review President Barack Obama’s health-care overhaul, rejecting
Virginia’s bid to have its challenge to the law considered on an
unusual fast-track basis.  Virginia, one of 28 states suing to invalidate the measure,
urged the justices to schedule arguments without waiting for the
four appeals courts that are poised to consider the law. The
states say Congress overstepped its authority by requiring
Americans to either obtain insurance or pay a penalty.  The rebuff doesn’t preclude the Supreme Court from hearing
the case later, perhaps even before the 2012 election. For the
time being, yesterday’s action is a victory for the Obama
administration, which urged the justices not to grant Virginia’s
bid for a hearing.  The step sought by Virginia, known as certiorari before
judgment, is one the court has taken only a handful of times.  The Obama administration argued that the health-care
dispute doesn’t rise to the level of urgency required for an
expedited hearing, in part because the disputed provision
doesn’t take effect until 2014.  U.S. District Judge Henry Hudson ruled in December that
Congress’s authority over interstate commerce didn’t give it the
power to enact the insurance mandate. A federal appeals court
based in Richmond, Virginia, is scheduled to hear the Obama
administration’s appeal of that ruling May 10 -- alongside an
appeal of a different judge’s decision upholding the law.  Another appeals court, based in Cincinnati, will consider
the issue June 1, and a third, based in Atlanta, will hear
arguments June 8 in a case involving the other 26 states
challenging the law. An appeals court in  Washington  will
consider the matter later this year.  The Supreme Court case is Virginia ex rel. Cuccinelli v.
Sebelius, 10-1014.  For more, click here.  Rajaratnam’s Fate Now Rests With Bookkeeper, Nurse, Teachers  Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam’s fate rests
with jurors including a retired bookkeeper, a nurse and a
customer-service representative for the  New York  subway system,
as deliberations began at his insider-trading trial.  U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell in Manhattan yesterday
instructed jurors on the law of conspiracy and securities fraud
and asked the panel to weigh the evidence presented at the trial
of Rajaratnam, who prosecutors said was worth at least $1
billion the day of his arrest in October 2009.  The deliberations follow six weeks of trial testimony in
the largest crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S.
history. Jurors heard parts of four dozen conversations secretly
recorded by the U.S. government of Rajaratnam talking to fellow
traders, business executives and corporate consultants.  Rajaratnam, 53, who faces 14 criminal counts, is accused of
gaining $63.8 million from tips leaked by corporate insiders and
hedge-fund traders about a dozen stocks, including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)   The Sri Lankan-born money manager denies wrongdoing, saying
he based his trades on research including analyst reports, news
accounts and stock trading trends.  The jurors hail from Westchester County, the Bronx and
Manhattan.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Microsoft Appeal of 899 Million Euro Fine Will Be Heard May 24  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s appeal of an 899 million-euro ($1.3
billion) European Union fine for failing to comply with an
antitrust ruling will be heard on May 24.  The EU General Court, the 27-nation region’s second-highest
tribunal, will hear oral arguments in the case next month,
according to the court’s online  calendar . Microsoft, the world’s
largest software maker, is seeking to overturn or cut the fine
levied by the  European Commission  in 2008.  The commission in 2004 found that Microsoft overcharged for
patent licenses that rivals needed to connect products to the
Windows operating system. The additional fine in 2008 brought
the total penalty against Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft to
1.68 billion euros.  Microsoft was the first company in 50 years of EU
competition policy to face a penalty for failing to comply with
an EU order.  Interviews/Speeches  Continuing Oil Company Tax Subsidies Is ‘Crazy,’ Carney Says  Continuing about $4 billion in tax subsidies for oil
companies would be “crazy,” White House press secretary  Jay
Carney  said.  President Barack Obama on April 21 reiterated his call for
an end to oil company tax breaks, saying that “instead of
subsidizing yesterday’s energy sources, let’s invest in
tomorrow’s.” Obama also said a Justice Department probe will
examine the role of “traders and speculators” in rising
gasoline prices.  RCM Asia Pacific’s Konyn and ISI’s Straszheim on China Banks  Mark Konyn , chief executive officer at RCM Asia Pacific
Ltd. talked about the outlook for Chinese banks and the central
bank’s announcement of capital requirements. He spoke with Susan
Li on Bloomberg Television’s “First Up.”  Donald Straszheim , senior managing director at
International Strategy & Investment Group, talked about China’s
economy, bank-capital targets and central bank policy, and his
expectation on whether the bank will raise rates.  He spoke with Mark Crumpton on Bloomberg Television’s
“Bottom Line.”  For the Konyn video, click here.  For the Straszheim video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Draghi Said to Be Seen by Sarkozy as Trichet’s Successor at ECB  French President Nicolas Sarkozy considers Bank of Italy
Governor Mario Draghi the leading candidate to succeed Jean-
Claude Trichet at the helm of the  European Central Bank , a
person familiar with the matter said.  Support from Sarkozy after signals from German officials
that Draghi is their preferred banker would add momentum to a
campaign that has been pushed by Italian government officials.
The French leader may disclose his views as early as today at a
briefing in Rome with Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi,
a Sarkozy aide told reporters last week.  The key decision maker, German Chancellor Angela Merkel,
has yet to tip her hand. With a late-June deadline looming, the
appointment may become entangled in German opposition to
bailouts.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 