-- 
Chinese Drywall Lawsuits Are Partially Settled by Louisiana Supplier InEx

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 
2011-04-26T19:51:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/chinese-drywall-lawsuits-are-partially-settled-by-louisiana-supplier-inex.html
Interior/Exterior Building Supply
Ltd. of  Louisiana  agreed to pay $8 million cash and assign
$72 million in insurance rights to resolve claims by thousands
of U.S. property owners whose homes were ruined by defective
Chinese drywall.  Terms of the proposed settlement were set out in papers
filed today in federal court in New Orleans, where thousands of
claims over corrosive drywall made in  China  have been
consolidated before U.S. District Judge  Eldon Fallon .  “This is the first Chinese drywall settlement with a major
supplier, Interior/Exterior, and a number of its insurers,”
 Russ Herman , liaison counsel in the multidistrict litigation,
said in a statement.  InEx’s primary insurers, Arch Insurance Co. and Liberty
Mutual Fire Insurance Co., each agreed to pay $4 million cash
toward the claims. InEx assigned claimants its rights to pursue
an additional $72 million in excess insurance coverage from
North River Insurance Co., according to the court papers.  If Fallon approves the deal, claimants will be divided into
two categories. Louisiana property owners will form one class;
all other U.S. homeowners will form the other. InEx assigned the
rights to the excess insurance to the non-Louisiana class,
according to court papers.  Foul-Smelling Gases  In 2005 and 2006, InEx bought more than 500,000 pieces of
drywall from units of the Knauf Group and other Chinese
manufacturers. The products allegedly contained chemicals that
released foul-smelling gases and corroded wiring and appliances
which homeowners were forced to rip out and replace.  In October, Fallon endorsed a plan for a Knauf unit to help
repair 300 homes damaged by defective drywall, the first step
toward a potential settlement of legal claims estimated by
plaintiffs at as much as $500 million. Those cases had been
intended to help determine property damage in cases against
other manufacturers and importers, including Chicago-based  USG
Corp. (USG)   More than 1.1 million sheets of harmful Chinese drywall
were used in Louisiana rebuilding projects after hurricanes
Katrina and Rita struck in 2005, state Attorney General James Caldwell said last year.  After a hearing today, Herman said in an interview that the
InEx settlement will resolve between “2,000 and 3,000 of the
14,000 cases” filed across the U.S. He said lawyers will have a
better idea of how many will qualify after class-action
notifications are sent to claimants next week.  “This is a significant bite,” Fallon said of the InEx
agreement at the hearing today. “We got the momentum because of
Knauf’s pilot settlement,” he said. A further hearing on the
proposed InEx settlement is set for May 6.  The case is In re Chinese-Manufactured Drywall Products
Liability Litigation, 2:09-md-02047, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Louisiana ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at  allenmct@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  