-- 
Christchurch Faces 20 Years of Rebuilding After Quake, Fletcher CEO Says

-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 
2011-04-26T14:13:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/christchurch-faces-20-years-of-rebuilding-after-quake-fletcher-ceo-says.html
Christchurch, New Zealand’s second-
largest city, faces as many as 20 years of rebuilding following
the earthquake in February that wrecked a third of its central
business district, according to  Fletcher Building Ltd. (FBU)   “There will not be a finite day on which this is
finished,” Jonathan Ling, chief executive officer, said in an
interview at Fletcher’s Auckland offices. “There will be new
buildings going up in the CBD on empty blocks probably for 10,
15 or 20 years.”  Fletcher Building, New Zealand’s largest supplier of
building materials, was appointed by the government as project
manager for the reconstruction of Christchurch homes following a
magnitude-7 temblor on Sept. 4. It’s also directing some repairs
in the central business district after another quake on Feb. 22
killed more than 170 people and ruined much of the city.  The company has set up 15 project offices in the South
Island city and arranged contractors to perform more than 4,000
emergency home repairs, said Ling, 57. Major rebuilding work
won’t begin until the aftershocks striking Canterbury cease, he
said. The region has recorded thousands of shocks since
September, including a magnitude-5.3 temblor on April 16 that
weakened already-damaged buildings and triggered liquefaction, a
phenomenon where soil loses its strength after violent shaking.  “There will be a lot of building,” said Ling. While
Fletcher won’t be constructing houses in Christchurch, it will
be selling materials needed to build them, as well as bidding
for some of the commercial and infrastructure work.  Share Gains  Fletcher has gained 20 percent this year, closing at
NZ$9.19 yesterday and valuing  New Zealand ’s largest publicly
traded company at about NZ$6.2 billion ($5 billion). The
benchmark Top 50 Index has risen 5.4 percent.  “The CBD will be developed over an extremely long time,”
Peter Townsend, CEO of the  Canterbury Employers’ Chamber of
Commerce , said in an interview. The city faces a long period of
“re-creation” before it can recover and grow, he said.  The  Earthquake Commission , New Zealand’s state-owned
disaster insurer, has so far paid out more than NZ$840 million
to Christchurch residents after receiving in excess of 300,000
claims, Earthquake Recovery Minister Gerry Brownlee said in a
statement yesterday. “It highlights the amount of work still
needing to be done,” he said.  ‘On Its Knees’  Christchurch’s overhaul is likely to boost New Zealand’s
building industry by an annual 10 percent during the next
decade, said Ling. He based his estimate on a forecast NZ$15
billion repair bill spread over that period -- at NZ$1.5 billion
a year -- in an industry worth about NZ$15 billion annually.
Still, that wouldn’t return the industry to its 2007 peak of
about NZ$18 billion, he said.  “There’s been a lot of concern about whether there’s going
to be enough labor and resources and capacity,” said Ling.
“There’s plenty. The industry has been on its knees for the
last few years.”  As well as supplying building products, Fletcher’s
businesses include cement, construction, laminates and steel
units. Ling joined in 2003 and became CEO three years later.  Fletcher is close to completing the NZ$1.3 billion takeover
of Sydney-based  Crane Group Ltd. (CRG)  The deal will boost Fletcher’s
Australian revenues to 45 percent of income, with 42 percent
from New Zealand, Ling said. Growth is focused on  Australia , a
market seven times the size of its own.  ‘Lot of Opportunity’  “We’re still touching the tip of the iceberg as far as
Australian building materials or construction material markets
go,” said Ling. “There’s a lot of opportunity there.”  Fletcher is likely to spend about NZ$1 billion in the next
three years, said Ling. That may include about NZ$200 million in
expanding its Asian  laminates business , as well as further
sizable acquisitions. Ling intends to maintain the revenue split
between Australia and New Zealand following the Crane
acquisition, and to keep the company’s headquarters in Auckland,
he said.  Ling is still optimistic about New Zealand, citing the
Christchurch rebuild as a source of “high growth”
opportunities in the coming years.  “It will be a terrific opportunity for those who want to
be pioneers. There aren’t that many cities in the world that
actually get the opportunity to rebuild.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  