-- 
Christie Property-Tax Limits Face Test as New Jersey Votes

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 
2011-04-26T16:00:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/christie-property-tax-limits-face-test-as-new-jersey-votes-1-.html
New Jersey voters, who pay the
highest property taxes in the U.S., will decide tomorrow if
their municipal and school budgets should exceed Governor  Chris Christie ’s 2 percent cap on the levies.  Towns seeking to raise taxes above the limit, which took
effect this year, must win approval from voters for the first
time, rather than from a state board that oversees local
finances. Only 14 of 566 towns are asking to exceed the cap.  More than half of 30 municipalities that had previously
signaled they may hold the referendums opted not to do so.
Localities are firing police while cutting back on library hours
and trash pickup as elected officials speculate that voters will
reject any requests for higher levies.  “A lot of mayors and councils and school boards read the
tea leaves and were very conservative about their budgets,”
 Peter Woolley , a political scientist at Fairleigh Dickinson
University in Madison, said in an interview. “They didn’t want
to go out and have a budget that gets attacked or voted down.”  Of 538 proposed school budgets facing voters, 87 percent
would increase their portion of the property tax by 2 percent or
less, according to the New Jersey School Boards Association.  Budgets Rejected  Sixty-nine of the school budgets would increase the levy by
more than 2 percent because of allowable adjustments for the
costs of enrollment, health benefits, pensions or debt service.
Only 11 districts plan separate ballot questions asking voters
for approval to exceed the cap for other reasons. Until three
years ago, it was common to see more than 70 such questions.  Last year,  New Jersey  voters rejected a majority of school
budgets for the first time in more than three decades. Voters
shot down a record 59 percent of the plans after Christie, a
first-term Republican, urged them to help him curb teacher pay.
All six of the separate ballot questions proposed last year also
were rejected.  New Jersey’s property taxes, the main source of funding for
schools and towns, have climbed 70 percent in the past  decade .  “A very small amount of municipalities want to exceed the
cap; that’s really good news for property taxes,” Christie, 48,
said at a town-hall meeting in Hamilton today. “It shows the
beginning of the cap starting to work.”  More Control  Christie’s limit on property taxes, which averaged $7,576
last year, lowered the previous 4 percent threshold. It also cut
the number of exemptions and forced towns to ask for voter
approval if they wanted to exceed the cap for reasons other than
to cover debt payments, higher pension and benefit costs, and
natural disasters.  “You’re getting more control,” Christie told residents at
the gathering. “We’re not there yet, but we’re better off than
we were. In the end what we’re fighting for is to put you in
charge, not politicians.”  Under the previous system, towns sought cap waivers from
the Local Finance Board. Last year, 51 towns asked for waivers,
and 50 were approved, according to data provided by the state
Department of Community Affairs.  The cap has strained the finances of towns across the
state, said William Dressel, executive director of the New
Jersey League of Municipalities. Brick, a town of about 75,000
in Ocean County, may have to cut senior services, while nearby
Plumsted, a township of 8,300, may fire police if they don’t
receive voter approval to exceed the cap.  “Local officials have no other options,” Dressel said.  Thinking Twice  North Arlington’s Republican-led council initially
considered asking voters in the Bergen County borough to exceed
the cap and then decided against it, said Mayor Peter Massa, a
second-term Democrat.  “The chances of that referendum passing was next to
none,” Massa, who opposed seeking the waiver, said in an e-
mail. “No voter is going to rubber stamp a property-tax
increase in these tough economic times.”  Mansfield Township is holding a referendum in an effort to
preserve full-time paid first-aid service for the Burlington
County community, where more than a quarter of the residents are
seniors. Mansfield last year fired police, its business
administrator and public-safety director and cut trash pickup to
once a week from twice, said Robert Higgins, deputy mayor.  “We’ve pretty much done everything we could,” Higgins
said in a telephone interview.  Tax Growth  New Jersey property-tax bills last year climbed 4.1
percent, the biggest gain since a 5.8 percent increase in 2007.
Democratic lawmakers have said Christie’s move to cut more than
$1.2 billion of municipal and school aid last year contributed
to local tax increases. Christie has said future growth in the
levies will be controlled now that his cap is in place.  The governor has urged lawmakers to pass a package of
measures designed to help mayors stay within his threshold,
including allowing localities to opt out of civil service and
limiting payouts for unused sick days. He refers to the bills as
a “toolkit.”  The “do-nothing” Democratic-led Legislature has passed
only five of 20 toolkit-related bills, Christie said at an April
19 town-hall meeting in Jackson.  The cap should have been the “final piece, not the
centerpiece” for controlling property-tax growth, Dressel said.
Mayors haven’t been given the tools to stay within the new
limit, he said.  “It’s safe to say that every town in this state is having
extreme difficulties in meeting the 2 percent,” Dressel said.  Residents Pay  Christie signed a law last year requiring teachers to
allocate  1.5 percent  of their salaries toward health benefits.
They previously paid nothing.  “Even now that we have employee contributions to the cost
of health benefits, the boards still are facing very sharp
premium increases in many cases,” said Frank Belluscio,
spokesman for the school-boards group. “Districts are looking
at other strategies and services, and non-tax revenue sources,
but you can’t get away from the fact that the major source of
revenue is going to be taxpayers.”  Voter turnout may be higher than in past years because
towns’ requests will be considered in the school elections. Last
year, 27 percent of voters turned out. Each year over the past
three decades, less than  20 percent  of voters participated in
April school elections.  New Jersey’s school elections were changed this year from
the third Tuesday in April to avoid conflict with the Passover
holiday.  Towns seeking to exceed the cap, according to the
Department of Community Affairs:  School districts  seeking  second budget questions, according
to the New Jersey School Boards Association:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in New York at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  