-- 
Coca-Cola Profit Misses Analyst Estimates on Japan Disaster

-- B y   D u a n e   S t a n f o r d
-- 
2011-04-26T20:15:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/coca-cola-first-quarter-profit-gain-trails-estimates-on-earthquake-damage.html
Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , the world’s largest
soft-drink maker, posted first-quarter profit that fell short of
analysts’ projections as earthquake damage squeezed margins in
Japan and total revenue trailed expectations.  Excluding items such as restructuring costs, earnings were
86 cents, compared with the 87-cent average of estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Damage from the March earthquake in Japan
cut 1 cent from profit, the Atlanta-based company said today in
a statement.  Sales climbed to $10.5 billion, short of the average
analyst estimate of $10.7 billion. Revenue suffered partly from
discounting at retailers such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , which ate
into Coca-Cola’s gains from volume sales, said Kaumil Gajrawala,
an analyst with  UBS Investment Bank  in  New York .  “Revenues were below expectations in all regions but  Latin
America ,” Gajrawala said today in a note. “Much of the profit
miss was driven by  North America .” He advises investors to buy
the shares.  Coca-Cola declined 81 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $66.93 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the largest
drop in more than a month. Coca-Cola has gained 1.8 percent this
year, while rival PepsiCo Inc. has increased 3.6 percent.  Japan Disaster  Some Coca-Cola manufacturing and vending operations in
Japan, which represents more than one-10th of operating profit,
were disrupted following the March 11 earthquake and ensuing
tsunami. Chief Executive Officer  Muhtar Kent  has pledged more
than $30 million in relief for the region.  Kent has expanded further in  developing countries  to widen
Coca-Cola’s market-share lead. The beverage maker generated
almost one-third of its sales in the U.S. and  Canada  last year,
compared with 11 percent for the Latin America unit and 14
percent for  Europe .  Coca-Cola boosted sales volumes in the U.S. and Canada for
the fourth consecutive quarter, following his decision to take
control of 90 percent of the company’s North American
distribution system. Global sales by volume jumped 6 percent,
with a matching increase in North America.  Carbonated soft-drink volume in Mexico rose 11 percent,
while  China  posted a 14 percent gain. Net income advanced 18
percent to $1.9 billion, or 82 cents a share, from $1.61
billion, or 69 cents. Purchase, New York-based PepsiCo, the
second-biggest soft-drink company, plans to report first-quarter
results this week.  Commodity Surge  Both Coca-Cola and PepsiCo face rising costs for
ingredients and packaging as commodity prices advance and crude
oil for June delivery touched $113.48 yesterday, the highest
intraday price since Sept. 22, 2008.  Commodity costs for the year may rise by as much as $700
million, according to estimates provided by Chief Financial
Officer Gary Fayard during a conference call. That’s higher than
the $300 million to $400 million he estimated in February. The
increase is fueled by the higher cost of plastic for bottles,
which is made from oil. Almost all of the commodity gain will be
offset by supply savings, higher pricing and a currency benefit,
Fayard said.  “Note that we are continuing to actively hedge our
commodity and currency exposure,” Fayard said.  PepsiCo, which gets about two-thirds of sales come from
snacks, has said total commodity costs may increase $1.4 billion
to $1.6 billion this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  