-- 
Comcast in Talks to Offer On-Demand Movies 6 to 8 Weeks After Theaters

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-04-26T20:02:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/comcast-in-talks-to-offer-on-demand-movies-6-to-8-weeks-after-theaters.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the largest U.S.
cable-television company, is in talks with Hollywood movie
studios to show some films on demand six to eight weeks after
their theatrical release, a Comcast executive said.  Comcast would like to offer on-demand rentals for Hollywood
studio films more quickly than the typical 90 to 120 days after
cinematic release, Marcien Jenckes, Comcast’s senior vice
president and general manager of video services, said in an
interview. The Philadelphia-based company hasn’t decided when to
introduce such a service and wants to make sure studios are
comfortable with the shorter window, he said.  Comcast’s premium movie service would follow a similar move
by DirecTV, the largest U.S. satellite-TV operator.  DirecTV (DTV) ,
which is gaining ground on Comcast in pay-TV subscribers, last
week started offering some films for $29.99 after 60 days.  The faster release of movies for home viewing may spark
conflict in the industry because movie theaters would have
exclusive rights to films for shorter periods. Theater companies
including  Cinemark Holdings Inc. (CNK)  and Regency Theaters have
threatened to boycott films slated for on-demand viewing fewer
than 90 days, or about 12 weeks, after their theatrical release.  Comcast hasn’t decided how much to charge for premium
video-on-demand and may experiment with a variety of prices,
depending on particular films and regions of the country,
Jenckes said.  DirecTV, based in El Segundo,  California , has no immediate
plans to shorten the time frame to less than 60 days, said
Executive Vice President Derek Chang in an interview last week.  Jenckes said Comcast already offers selected independent
films for at-home viewing on the same day of their theatrical
release. Independent films receive more than  200,000  views on
demand by Comcast customers each month, according to the
company.  Comcast rose 30 cents to $25.59 at 4 p.m.  New York  time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have gained 16 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  