-- 
Commissioner Goodell Says NFL Will Be Endangered Without New Labor Accord

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-04-26T04:49:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/commissioner-goodell-says-nfl-will-be-endangered-without-new-labor-accord.html
The  National Football League  faces
a future with no draft or salary cap, unlimited free agency and
a handful of dominant teams if players and owners fail to
negotiate a new labor accord, Commissioner Roger Goodell said.  The league yesterday filed an appeal and asked U.S.
District Judge Susan Richard Nelson to put on hold her ruling
that NFL owners must lift their six-week lockout of players.
Nelson’s decision to back the players may endanger the sport,
Goodell wrote in an article printed in the Wall Street Journal.  The NFL needs a new labor deal to continue a system that’s
“worked enormously well” for players, the league and fans,
Goodell wrote. The union-financed lawsuit brought by 10 players
to end the lockout attacks the current system, including the
draft, salary cap and free agency rules, the commissioner said.  “A union victory threatens to overturn the carefully
constructed system of competitive balance that makes NFL games
and championship races so unpredictable and exciting,” Goodell
wrote.  Without a new collective bargaining agreement, Goodell
predicted the elimination of the draft, with rookies entering
the league as free agents and selling their services to the team
of their choice.  While some teams could have $200 million payrolls, others
may spend less than $50 million, he said. With no minimum
salary, players could earn less than today’s minimums, with
benefits depending on the team and individual, Goodell said.  Dominant Teams  Teams from the biggest media markets would become the most
successful, with a handful of elite teams signing top free-agent
players and leaving franchises in smaller markets as “farm
teams,” Goodell said.  “Is this the NFL that players want? A league where elite
players attract enormous compensation and benefits while other
players -- those lacking the glamour and bargaining power of the
stars -- play for less money, fewer benefits and shorter careers
than they have today?” Goodell wrote. “A league where the
competitive ability of teams in smaller communities (Buffalo,
 New Orleans ,  Green Bay  and others) is forever cast into doubt by
blind adherence to free-market principles that favor teams in
larger, better-situated markets?”  New York Giants defensive lineman Osi Umenyiora said
Nelson’s ruling yesterday against the lockout is “a win” for
players and fans who want a full season in 2011. The scheduled
Sept. 8 start of the 2011 regular season is in jeopardy because
of the impasse.  “We hope that this will bring us one step closer to
playing the game we love,” said Umenyiora, who is among the 10
plaintiffs listed in the players’ lawsuit.  March 12 Lockout  The NFL declared a labor lockout on March 12 after talks
failed to produce a new collective bargaining agreement and the
players’ association said it no longer would act as a union.  The offseason has been on hold during the lockout. About
500 players can’t become free agents and teams can’t practice,
sign players or make trades.  Nelson, who is based in  St. Paul ,  Minnesota , sided with
players led by  Super Bowl  winning quarterbacks  Tom Brady ,  Peyton Manning  and  Drew Brees , who filed a suit accusing the league of
anticompetitive practices that violated federal antitrust laws.  The NFL is challenging Nelson’s decision before the  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the Eighth Circuit, which hears arguments
in St. Paul and in  St. Louis . The league said in a statement
that federal law bars injunctions in labor disputes.  Labor negotiations between lawyers for team owners and
players aren’t scheduled to resume until May 16. At the core of
the dispute is how the 32-team league and its players would
divide about $9 billion in annual revenue.  Lawyers for the players said in a statement they’re
confident that Nelson’s decision will withstand any appeals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  