-- 
Commodities Snap Four-Day Winning Streak on Fed Speculation, China Credit

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-04-26T11:48:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/commodities-drop-snapping-four-days-of-gains-on-risk-fed-may-end-easing.html
Commodities snapped a four-day
winning streak, led by declines in silver and copper, on
speculation the  Federal Reserve  may end its bond-buying program
and as China was said to be tightening its credit policy.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials lost
as much as 0.9 percent to 745.49, the biggest intraday loss
since April 19. The index was 0.2 percent lower at 751.12 at
12:47 p.m. London time. Silver fell as much as 5.4 percent and
copper slumped 2.5 percent.  The Fed begins its two-day meeting today and is expected to
say tomorrow it will conclude its second round of quantitative
easing, known as QEII, through June to support the economy.  “There’s uncertainty from the U.S. monetary policy,”
Dominic Schnider, an analyst at UBS AG in  Singapore , said today
by phone. “Keep in mind that it has been the QEII that pushed
commodity prices.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index has rallied about 37
percent in the past year, buoyed partly by U.S. monetary policy,
which helped drive growth and spur demand from investors and
industrial users. Copper, gold, silver and rubber rallied to
records this year and oil climbed to more than $100 a barrel for
the first time since the financial crisis in 2008.  The U.S. central bank will leave its target rate for
overnight lending between banks at zero to 0.25 percent
tomorrow, according to all 82 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey.  China  Tightening  China’s banking regulator set capital targets for the
nation’s five biggest lenders above the minimum 11.5 percent
ratio last month amid concern that credit risks may rise, three
people with knowledge of the matter told Bloomberg News.  The move added to measures China’s policy makers have taken
to curb loan growth and slow inflation. Metals traded on the
London Metal Exchange declined today partly on concern that the
credit-tightening policy in China, the largest user of copper
and aluminum, may curb demand growth.  Copper for three-month delivery dropped as much as 3.3
percent, the most since March 9. Futures caught up with losses
in  New York  and Shanghai after the London exchange resumed
trading today after a two-day holiday. Zinc fell as much as 4.7
percent to $2,249 a ton, also the most since March 9.  “Market sentiment has been dented all around by the
ongoing efforts of the Chinese government to rein in liquidity
and cool the economy,” said Shi Hai, an analyst at  Shanghai 
Tonglian Futures Co.  Oil Supply  The Dollar Index rose as much as 0.5 percent today against
a basket of six major currencies. The index has lost 9.3 percent
in the past year.  Oil for June delivery was down 9 cents at $112.19 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Saudi Arabia , the world’s largest oil exporter, is not
comfortable with prices and is committed to keeping aside a
“sizable cushion” of spare capacity, Saudi Aramco Chief
Executive Officer Khalid al-Falih said in  Seoul  today.  Consumers needn’t be concerned by high crude prices because
spare capacity can “moderate” the market, said al-Falih, who
is in  South Korea  for a board meeting this week.  ‘Nervousness’  “Oil remains about $15-a-barrel above fundamentally
supported levels, but should remain elevated, with risks on
supply likely to persist,” Jeremy Friesen, a commodity analyst
at Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong , said today.  Commodities were falling today because of “nervousness
about what the Fed will do” and concerns about global economic
growth, he said.  Gold lost as much as 0.8 percent to $1,495.75 an ounce
after climbing to a record $1,518.32 yesterday. Silver fell as
much as 4.8 percent to $44.6625, the most since March 15, after
climbing to an all-time high of $49.79 yesterday.  Wheat fell as much as 3.2 percent to $8.3375 a bushel in
 Chicago  and corn declined as much as 1.5 percent to $7.5675 a
bushel.  -- With assistance from Glenys Sim in Singapore. Editors:
 Matthew Oakley , Jake Lloyd-Smith  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  