-- 
Constance Hotels of Mauritius Expects 20% Increase in Revenue This Year

-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 
2011-04-26T06:21:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/constance-hotels-of-mauritius-expects-20-increase-in-revenue-this-year.html
Constance Hotels Services Ltd. (CHSL) , a
Mauritian luxury leisure operator, expects sales to increase at
least 20 percent in 2011 after the opening of resorts in the
Seychelles and Maldives, Managing Director Patrice Binet-Decamps
said.  “A minimum of 20 percent increase in the revenue is
targeted,” he said in an interview on April 14 in Belle-Mare,
on the east coast of the Indian Ocean island nation. “It will
depend on the world travel market with its lesser appetite for
five-star and four-star resorts and amidst competitive
pricing.”  The hotel group owns and manages seven resorts in
Mauritius, the Seychelles and Maldives and a lodge on a private
island in  Madagascar . It has invested $190 million in the new
resorts in the Maldives and Seychelles, with construction
coinciding with the start of the global financial crisis, Binet-
Decamps said.  The group is the only Mauritian leisure operator with
hotels in the four islands of the  Indian Ocean . An annual
average of 46 percent of guests come back for another visit,
according to the managing director.  Constance’s net loss for 2010 widened to 147 million rupees
($5.3 million) from 68 million rupees a year earlier, it said in
a statement on March 31. Revenue fell 5.5 percent to 1.36
billion rupees.  The company expects to break even or “swing back to
profits” this year, said Binet-Decamps, who has headed the
group since 1992. “New hotels do not generate profits 10
minutes after opening. Ripening takes at least two years.”  Constance Hotels has a stronghold on golf tourism with two
professional courses in Belle-Mare, according to the managing
director.  “About 60 percent of tourists in the world play golf,” he
said. “And a golfer spends 50 percent more than the average.
Half of our clients in our Mauritian resorts, Belle-Mare Plage
and Prince Maurice, come for the greens.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Kamlesh Bhuckory in  Port
Louis  via Johannesburg at 
 gbell16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor on this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 