-- 
Cuomo Orders ‘Pay-To-Play’ Ban for New York Pension After Hevesi Sentenced

-- B y   S t e v e n   F r o m m   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 
2011-04-26T20:09:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/cuomo-makes-pay-to-play-ban-permanent-for-new-york-pension-fund-business.html
New York Governor Andrew M. Cuomo
directed the state Insurance Department to issue permanent
regulations banning placement agents, lobbyists and elected
officials from any pension-fund business.  The order follows the April 15 sentencing of former state
Comptroller  Alan Hevesi , who will spend as long as four years in
prison for giving preferential treatment to a Los Angeles-based
money manager in exchange for almost $1 million in gifts. The
comptroller is the sole trustee of New York’s $140.6 billion
pension fund, the nation’s third-biggest.  “It is long past time that we learned the lessons of the
Hevesi case and make permanent changes to our system that will
stop the culture of corruption,” Cuomo said in a news release.  The regulations contain provisions that will permanently
ban so-called pay-to-play. The term refers to a practice whereby
government contractors paid politically connected middlemen or
made campaign contributions in exchange for winning business.  Cuomo, 53, a first-term Democrat, spent four years as state
attorney general investigating corruption at the fund and vowed
during his campaign to bolster  New York ’s ethics rules. He told
lawmakers he would form a commission to investigate them if they
didn’t approve more ethics oversight, and said he would veto
their drawing of new district lines if they protected incumbents
or favored one party.  Sham Fees  Hevesi, a Democrat, pleaded guilty in October to receiving
a reward for official misconduct. He admitted approving $250
million in pension-fund investments with Markstone Capital
Partners in exchange for $75,000 in travel expenses, $380,000 in
sham consulting fees for a lobbyist and more than $500,000 in
campaign contributions.  The new rules will ban, for the first time, the involvement
of elected officials in any pension-fund business. The
regulations would also end “revolving door” employment of
former pension-fund officials at firms that do business with the
 retirement plan . It would also ban firms that directly or
indirectly make campaign donations, charitable contributions or
gifts to the comptroller, the release said.  Previously, the Insurance Department had issued temporary
regulations banning pay-to-play at the state fund. Current
Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli, who banned placement agents in
2009, said in a statement today that he welcomed the
regulations.  Cuomo’s investigation led to the conviction of Hevesi and
seven others and the recovery of $170 million, according to the
governor’s news release.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Fromm at 
 sfromm@bloomberg.net 
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 