-- 
Syria's Violent Crackdown Prompts UN’s Ban to Demand External Inquiry

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-04-27T15:21:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/death-toll-rises-as-syrian-forces-fire-machine-guns-in-daraa.html
Syria ’s increasingly violent
suppression of anti-government protests drew condemnation from
United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, who called for an
external inquiry, and European Union countries.  “There should be an independent, transparent and effective
investigation,” Ban told reporters in  New York , where the UN
Security Council failed to agree on a European proposal to
condemn the Syrian attacks. The debate is due to resume today.
Syria’s ambassador to the UN, Bashar Ja’afari, said his country
has set up its own commission to investigate and that calls for
an international probe are premature.  European Union countries including France and the U.K.
summoned Syrian ambassadors and criticized the violence. New
York-based  Human Rights Watch  said Arab countries such as Egypt
and  Tunisia  should join in the growing condemnation.  The latest Syrian crackdown on demonstrations in the past
five days, mostly in the southern region of Daraa, has brought
the nationwide death toll since mid-March to more than 450,
Ammar Qurabi, head of Syria’s  National Organization for Human
Rights  said in a telephone interview today.  The Syrian protests are part of a wave of Middle Eastern
popular movements that have unseated rulers in Egypt and Tunisia
this year, forced violent crackdowns in Libya and Bahrain, and
helped push  oil prices  up more than 20 percent this year.
President Bashar al-Assad’s decision to end the emergency rule
in place for half a century, and his pledges of future political
and economic measures, have failed to halt the unrest.  ‘Very Worried’  “The regime is very worried,” Joshua Landis, a Syria
specialist who directs the Center for Middle East Studies at the
University of Oklahoma in Norman, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “This opposition protest movement has been
snowballing, and clearly the military element is saying we have
to get control of the situation.”  Assad’s government sent tanks and armored personnel
carriers to storm Daraa on April 25, and activists and witnesses
say at least 25 people were killed as security forces fired on
protesters. Yesterday, the troops strafed the streets with
machine guns, and water, electricity and phone lines were cut.  The government said its soldiers moved into the city in
response to an appeal by residents to prevent violence by
“radical terrorists.” Assad has said foreign-led conspirators
are seeking to exploit legitimate expressions of popular
demands. Protest organizers say the demonstrators were unarmed.  Bracing for Attack  Demonstrations were held yesterday in the coastal cities of
 Banias , which has one of Syria’s largest oil refineries, and
Latakia, Razan Zaitouneh, a Damascus-based human rights lawyer
and activist, said on her Facebook page. In an interview with
Arabiya, she said “there is a real state of war” in Daraa
where residents have reported a shortage of water and food.
Security forces were deployed around the cities of Jableh, Homs,
Moadamya and Hama and the Damascus suburb of Douma, according to
Rami Nakhle, a Syrian dissident who lives in Lebanon.  “The army has surrounded Banias since yesterday,” Abdul-
Karim Rihawi, head of the Syrian Human Rights League, said in a
telephone interview from Damascus today. “Residents are bracing
themselves for an attack and scared it will be a repeat of the
violence witnessed in Daraa. The situation is very tense.”  Banias Surrounded  About 30 tanks are on the way to the coastal city of
Banias, Qurabi said. The army has surrounded the city in the
past few days and there is “fear of an attack,” he said. He
also said some tanks are positioned on the outskirts of the
capital.  Assad and his officials are “trying to hit down as hard as
they can right now to show the Syrian population that they’re
not going to hesitate, and to show the opposition there isn’t a
peaceful way out of this,” Landis said.  More than 1,000 people have been detained across the
country since the most recent demonstrations began April 22,
bringing the total number of detentions since the unrest started
to at least 2,000, according to Mahmoud Merhi, who heads the
Arab Organization for Human Rights.  Syria is preventing diplomatic observers from assessing the
situation, including through measures such as the detention of
accredited diplomatic personnel, the U.S. Embassy in Damascus
said in an e-mail today. One person working for the embassy was
briefly detained, it said.  ‘Targeted Sanctions’  The U.S. is considering “targeted sanctions,” said Jake Sullivan, director of policy planning at the State Department,
which has ordered all embassy family members and non-emergency
personnel to depart Syria and advised U.S. citizens to leave.  The French Foreign Ministry summoned the Syrian ambassador
to Paris today. Foreign Ministry Chief of Staff Herve Ladsous
told Lamia Chakkour of  France ’s “firm condemnation of the
rising repression against the population by Syrian
authorities,” the ministry said in a statement.  The Syrian ambassador in the U.K. was told that Syria
“must immediately halt all attacks against protestors and
restrain the army and security forces,” the U.K. foreign
ministry said.  Germany ’s chief government spokesman, Steffen Seibert, told
reporters in Berlin today that the “Assad regime has shown
itself in the last few weeks to be a regime of brutal
oppression” and “is responsible for the deaths of hundreds of
people.”  Human Rights Watch  said Arab countries should join in
applying pressure to Assad, and criticized an April 25 statement
by the  Arab League  condemning violence against civilians because
it “stopped short of naming Syria and did not propose any
concrete measures to end abuses.”  Brussels Meeting  Michael Mann , spokesman for European Union foreign policy
chief  Catherine Ashton , told reporters in Brussels today
representatives of the 27 EU governments will meet Friday in
Brussels to discuss Syria.  “All options are on the table at the time being,” he said.
“If there’s any need for any concrete action to be taken, that
can be done very quickly.”  In  Libya , where Muammar Qaddafi’s violence and threats
against opposition supporters prompted the U.S. and allies to
intervene militarily on the side of the rebels, NATO allies said
they will step up attacks. Government and opposition forces each
control about half of the country.  U.K. Defense Secretary  Liam Fox  said yesterday that NATO
strikes such as the April 25 raid on Qaddafi’s main compound in
the capital, Tripoli, are intended to “increase the
psychological pressure” on the leader.  GCC Plan  In Yemen, where protesters have been holding daily rallies
for more than two months to demand the ouster of President Ali Abdullah Saleh, government and opposition leaders are set to
sign an agreement providing for Saleh’s departure.  Foreign Ministers from the Gulf Cooperation Council will
hold an emergency meeting in  Riyadh  on May 1 to finalize a plan
they have brokered, the GCC said in an e-mailed statement. It
calls for Saleh to hand over power within 30 days, with a
promise of immunity from prosecution, and then for elections to
be held two months later.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut  at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 