-- 
Delaware Judge Chandler Retires, Rajaratnam, Health Care in Court News

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-04-26T11:41:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/delaware-court-insider-trading-health-care-in-court-news.html
Delaware Chancery Court Chief Judge
William B. Chandler III, who oversaw challenges to the  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  boards as head of one of the
most important U.S. business litigation courts, is stepping
down. Chandler, 60, led the influential five-member court since
1997 and most recently ruled on  Air Products & Chemicals Inc. (APD) ’s
hostile $5 billion bid for  Airgas Inc. (ARG)   Charles Elson , director of the University of Delaware’s
Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance, said in a phone
interview that Chandler “leaves behind a tremendous legacy. He
was well-respected across the spectrum in the financial
community.”  In the Hewlett-Packard case, ousted director Walter Hewlett
claimed information about the Compaq deal was withheld from
shareholders. In 2002, Chandler concluded that the company
didn’t mislead investors, clearing the way for the $18.5 billion
merger.  In the Disney case, shareholders contended the board
violated its duties by approving severance for Michael Ovitz.
Chandler ruled in 2006 that directors properly oversaw the
firing and that Ovitz’s $140 million package wasn’t a waste of
corporate assets.  In February, Chandler upheld use of a poison pill by Airgas
to block a hostile takeover attempt by Air Products.  “I’ve had a great run,” Chandler said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “I’m really excited about the
possibilities in the private sector with corporate law and
 corporate governance  issues.”  No replacement has yet been announced for Chandler. Elson
said that Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine is the most likely
choice.  For more, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Rajaratnam’s Fate Now Rests With Bookkeeper, Nurse, Teachers  Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam’s fate rests
with jurors including a retired bookkeeper, a nurse and a
customer-service representative for the New York subway system,
as deliberations began at his insider-trading trial.  U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell in Manhattan yesterday
instructed jurors on the law of conspiracy and securities fraud
and asked the panel to weigh the evidence presented at the trial
of Rajaratnam, who prosecutors said was worth at least $1
billion the day of his arrest in October 2009.  The deliberations follow six weeks of trial testimony in
the largest crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S.
history. Jurors heard parts of four dozen conversations secretly
recorded by the U.S. government of Rajaratnam talking to fellow
traders, business executives and corporate consultants.  Rajaratnam, 53, is accused of gaining $63.8 million from
tips leaked by corporate insiders and hedge-fund traders about a
dozen stocks, including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Intel Corp .,
Clearwire Corp. and Akamai Technologies Inc.  He faces 14 counts: five counts of conspiracy to commit
securities fraud and nine of securities fraud. The conspiracy
counts each carry a maximum five-year prison sentence and the
fraud charges each carry a maximum 20-year term.  The jury hails from Westchester County, the Bronx and
Manhattan. The panel includes teachers, a retired bookkeeper who
worked with the Israel Defense Forces, an activities therapist
for a private nursing home, a nurse, a customer-service
representative for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and
a three-decade veteran food-service worker for New York’s
Education Department.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  Thomas Hardin, Galleon ‘Tipper X,’ Ordered to Pay $19,000  Thomas Hardin, the former Lanexa Global Management trader
called “Tipper X” in the Galleon Group LLC insider-trading
case, was ordered to pay a $19,000 judgment in a U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission lawsuit.  If Hardin has to forfeit more than $40,000 in a related
criminal case, he’ll be credited in the SEC case for the amount
more than $40,000, according to a judgment Hardin agreed to that
was filed yesterday in federal court in Manhattan.  In the criminal case, Hardin, a former managing director at
hedge fund investment adviser Lanexa, pleaded guilty to
conspiracy and securities fraud and agreed to cooperate with the
government. The SEC sued in November, saying he traded
securities of Hilton Worldwide Inc., Google Inc. and Kronos
Worldwide Inc. based on nonpublic information.  Larry Krantz, Hardin’s lawyer, declined to comment.  The case is SEC v. Lanexa Management, 10-8599, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  Supreme Court  Won’t Expedite Review of U.S. Health-Care Law  The U.S. Supreme Court declined an opportunity to review
President Barack Obama’s health-care overhaul, rejecting
 Virginia ’s bid to have its challenge to the law considered on an
unusual fast-track basis.  Virginia, one of 28 states suing to invalidate the measure,
urged the justices to schedule arguments without waiting for the
four appeals courts that are poised to consider the law. The
states say Congress overstepped its authority by requiring
Americans to either obtain insurance or pay a penalty.  The rebuff doesn’t preclude the Supreme Court from hearing
the case later, perhaps even before the 2012 election. For the
time being, yesterday’s action is a victory for the Obama
administration, which urged the justices not to grant Virginia’s
bid for a hearing.  “Expediting our case would have been the exception and so,
although disappointing, this is not surprising,” Virginia
Attorney General Kenneth Cuccinelli, said in a statement. He had
said in court papers that the dispute was “of imperative
national importance requiring immediate determination in this
court.”  The step sought by Virginia, known as certiorari before
judgment, is one the court has taken only a handful of times,
including its 1974 decision ordering President Richard Nixon to
turn over Oval Office tape recordings and its 1952 ruling
blocking President Harry S Truman from seizing the nation’s
steel mills.  The Obama administration argued that the health-care
dispute doesn’t rise to that level of urgency, in part because
the disputed provision doesn’t take effect until 2014.  The Supreme Court case is Virginia ex rel. Cuccinelli v.
Sebelius, 10-1014.  For more, click here.  Clement Quits King & Spalding Over Defense of Marriage Act  Paul D. Clement, the solicitor general in the Bush
administration, resigned yesterday as head of King & Spalding
LLP’s national appellate practice. The move came after the firm
withdrew from representing the U.S. House of Representatives in
supporting the Defense of Marriage Act.  In a letter to firm Chairman  Robert D. Hays , Clement said
that the firm shouldn’t abandon its representation simply
because a client’s legal position is unpopular. “Defending
unpopular positions is what lawyers do,” Clement said.  House Speaker John Boehner said last month that Republicans
would defend the 1996 Defense of Marriage Act after the Obama
administration said it would not. The act bars same-sex married
couples from collecting federal benefits when eligibility is
determined by marital status.  Hays said that the firm’s vetting process for the case was
“inadequate” in a statement yesterday. “Ultimately I am
responsible for any mistakes that occurred and apologize for the
challenges this may have created,” Hays said in the statement.  Clement, who was to serve as lead attorney for the Atlanta-
based firm, said he wouldn’t have undertaken the matter unless
he believed he had the firm’s full backing.  “But having undertaken the representation, I believe there
is no honorable course for me but to complete it,” Clement said
in his letter to Hays. “If there were problems with the firm’s
vetting process, we should fix the vetting process, not drop the
representation.” Clement is joining  Bancroft PLLC , a Washington
litigation boutique, where he will continue to represent the
House.  “We’re sorry to see Paul Clement leave. He’s been a good
partner and we wish him the best,” Les Zuke, a spokesman for
the firm, said yesterday in an e-mail.  For more, click here.  NFL Can’t Lock Out Players Under Order as League Moves to Appeal  National Football League team owners must end their month-
old lockout of players under a court ruling in an antitrust
lawsuit that the league said it will appeal.  The NFL responded to yesterday’s order by moving to appeal
the decision by U.S. District Judge Susan Richard Nelson in St.
Paul, Minnesota. The league also asked Nelson to put her ruling
on hold during its appeal.  Nelson issued the order in a lawsuit filed by 10 players,
led by Super Bowl winning quarterbacks Tom Brady, Peyton Manning
and Drew Brees, who accused the league of anticompetitive
practices that violated federal antitrust laws.  “The players’ motion is confined to a very precise and
narrow issue regarding only one of the antitrust claims --
whether the NFL may lock out the players,” she said.  “The policies and decisions of the individual teams
constitute ‘concerted action’ seems plain,” the judge said,
concluding the players had established the “requisite fair
chance of success” on the merits of that claim.  The NFL declared a labor lockout on March 12 after talks to
create a new collective bargaining agreement failed and the
players association said it no longer would act as a union.  The labor dispute involves the formula by which the New
York-based, 32-team league and its players would divide about $9
billion in annual revenue.  Areas of dispute also include extending the season to 18
games from 16, a rookie salary cap and health care for players.  During a lockout, players aren’t paid and teams can’t
practice, sign new players or make trades.  The NFL filed a notice that it would challenge Nelson’s
ruling before the 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, which hears
arguments in St. Paul and in St. Louis.  “We believe that federal law bars injunctions in labor
disputes,”  Greg Aiello , an NFL spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We are confident that the Eighth Circuit will
agree.”  Players’ lawyer James W. Quinn said the NFL’s quick move to
appeal was unsurprising and that he expected the league to seek
an order staying enforcement of Nelson’s ruling until the issue
can be argued before the appeals court.  If the lockout remains lifted, the NFL’s offseason would
officially begin after being put on hold since March.  The case is Brady v. NFL, 0:11-639, U.S. District Court,
District of Minnesota (St. Paul).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  New Suits  Apple Accused in Suit of Tracking IPad, IPhone User Location  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  was accused of invasion of privacy and computer
fraud by two customers who claim in a lawsuit that the company
is secretly recording movements of iPhone and iPad users.  Vikram Ajjampur, an iPhone user in  Florida , and William
Devito, a New York iPad customer, filed a suit April 22 in
federal court in Tampa, Florida, seeking a judge’s order barring
the alleged data collection.  The complaint cited a report last week by two computer
programmers claiming that Apple’s iOS4 operating system is
logging latitude-longitude coordinates along with the time a
spot is visited. The programmers said Apple devices are
collecting about a year’s worth of location data. Apple hasn’t
commented on the matter since the April 20 report was released.  “We take issue specifically with the notion that Apple is
now basically tracking people everywhere they go,” Aaron Mayer,
an attorney for the plaintiffs, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “If you are a federal marshal you have to have a
warrant to do this kind of thing, and Apple is doing it without
one.”  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on the
suit.  The plaintiffs are seeking to represent a group of U.S.
customers whose iPhones and iPads have the operating system that
allegedly collects location data, Mayer said. About one-third to
one-half of the country’s 60 million iPhone users could be part
of the class, he said. Ajjampur and Devito are also asking for
refunds because they wouldn’t have bought their products had
they known about the feature, Mayer said.  The case is Ajjampur v. Apple Inc., 11-cv-00895, U.S.
District Court, Middle District of Florida (Tampa).  Harvard Law School Faces Discrimination Probe of Policies  Harvard Law School is under federal investigation after a
Boston lawyer filed a discrimination complaint regarding the
school’s response to rape and harassment of women.  Harvard Law School’s policies for investigating such cases
don’t meet U.S. standards for timeliness and clarity,  Wendy
Murphy , an adjunct professor at the New England School of Law
who filed the complaint, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. As a result, Harvard’s law school in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , has been under investigation by the U.S.
Education Department’s Office of Civil Rights since December,
she said.  The violations at Harvard can be found at schools
throughout the U.S., said Murphy, who took similar action
against the  University of Virginia  in Charlottesville and
Princeton University in Princeton,  New Jersey . Murphy contacted
the Education Department in September after Harvard hired her to
address an issue related to  Title IX , the 1972 federal law that
bans discrimination against women on campus, she said.  “It was in connection with that work that I discovered
these violations,” said Murphy, who declined to give specifics
on her work at Harvard. “It became necessary to file the
complaint.”  The law school, founded in 1817, holds women to too high a
standard to prove sexual assault and harassment, Murphy said she
alleged in her complaint. The school also incorrectly tells
women that its own probe must follow that of local police and
prosecutors, a practice that often needlessly delays the
resolution of campus investigations, Murphy said.  Harvard takes sexual assault seriously and is fully
assisting the Education Department’s investigation of its
policies, said Robb  London , a spokesman for the law school.  “We have a responsibility to protect and maintain the
safety and well-being of our students and to offer complete
support and assistance to any student who makes us aware of
harm,” he said in an e-mailed statement. “That responsibility
includes making sure that we have effective processes for
ensuring a safe environment and for investigating any allegation
of assault expeditiously and fairly, followed by appropriate
disciplinary action.”  Jim Bradshaw, an Education Department spokesman, confirmed
that the agency is  investigating  Harvard Law School’s compliance
with Title IX.  Yale University  in New Haven,  Connecticut , is also being
probed by the Education Department’s civil rights office after
16 current and former students filed complaints. Yale created an
advisory committee on “campus climate” earlier this month that
will be led by Margaret H. Marshall, a former chief justice of
the Massachusetts Supreme Court and former Yale trustee, the
school said April 15.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Speeches/Interviews  Levitt Says Insider Trading Convictions Remain Elusive  Former U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman
Arthur Levitt says it is “very, very hard to convict someone in
an insider trading case.” Levitt made his remarks in an
interview on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  To listen to the interview, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  