-- 
Delta, US Airways Bring Major Airline Total Losses to $951 Million on Fuel

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-04-26T20:32:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/delta-us-airways-bring-losses-at-biggest-u-s-airlines-to-951-million.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  US Airways
Group Inc. (LCC)  posted losses that brought the first-quarter deficit
for the five biggest U.S. carriers to $951 million as jet fuel
prices surged.  The loss for the group was less than analysts estimated,
helping send the Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index to the biggest
gain since March 8. Delta and US Airways both said they would
cut 2011 growth plans for a second time, joining American
Airlines parent  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s move last week.  “The quarter was in line to slightly better” than
expected, said  Hunter Keay , an analyst at Wolfe Trahan & Co. in
 New York . “There were a couple of marginal capacity reductions.
It’s baby steps in the right direction, and there was good
commentary about demand.”  Delta,  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , AMR and US Airways
all reported losses smaller than analysts expected, while
 Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  met the average estimate. Southwest, the
largest low-fare carrier, was alone in reporting a profit.  The adjusted loss at Delta, the world’s second-biggest
airline, narrowed to $320 million, or 38 cents a share, less
than the 50-cent average loss estimate of 13 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. US Airways’ adjusted loss widened to $110 million,
or 68 cents, excluding some items. The result was narrower than
the 72-cent average from 13 analysts.  Delta rose 99 cents, or 11 percent, to $9.99 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading, for the biggest one-
day advance since Dec. 11, 2009. US Airways climbed 52 cents, or
6.2 percent, to $8.80. The Bloomberg index of 12 airlines
increased 4.1 percent.  Fares, Fuel  Six systemwide fare increases taken by the carriers during
the quarter couldn’t overcome a 41 percent increase from a year
earlier in the price of  jet fuel  for immediate delivery in New
York harbor.  The combined loss for the five, excluding special items,
widened from $892 million a year earlier. On a net basis, the
deficit for the group widened to $1.08 billion from $978 million
a year earlier.  “Fuel is the biggest challenge facing this industry,”
Delta Chief Executive Officer Richard Anderson said today in a
statement.  Delta  Delta said it would retire 10 more planes over the next 18
months, including about 60 of its 50-seat regional jets and some
Saab AB turboprops. The Atlanta-based airline also will park 20
planes in its main jet fleet, including some wide-body jets used
on international routes, Anderson said on a conference call.  “Seventy percent cost recapture isn’t enough,” he said.
“We must fully recoup the costs on every flight, every day.”  First-quarter revenue rose 13 percent to $7.75 billion.  Delta also trimmed its  capital spending  budget for the year
by $300 million to $1.2 billion, and it plans to reduce capacity
by 4 percentage points in the second half of the year by cutting
flights in markets where fares aren’t covering fuel costs. The
hub in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , will have departures cut by a
quarter, Delta said.  Cancellations during severe winter weather reduced revenue
by $90 million, while the plunge in demand for travel to  Japan 
lowered revenue by $35 million.  US Airways  US Airways today further trimmed growth plans, saying
capacity for the full year will increase 1 percent over 2010,
down from original plans for 2 percent. The airline initially
pared growth in March. The carrier also cut non-aircraft capital
spending, by $20 million to $160 million.  US Airways  is the only carrier among the five largest in
the U.S. that doesn’t use hedging contracts to help adjust for
changes in fuel prices. The Tempe, Arizona-based airline’s
spending for fuel rose 37 percent to $734 million, topping
expenses.  “Our first-quarter results were clearly impacted by the
extremely high price of oil,” CEO Doug Parker said in the
statement.  Including unspecified costs linked to a US Airways
regional carrier and other items, the net loss widened to $114
million, or 71 cents a share, from $45 million, or 28 cents.
Sales rose 12 percent to $2.96 billion.  Business travel demand remains strong, even with a March
and April drop in total booked revenue, as do airfares,
President Scott Kirby said on a conference call. The airline
forecasts April revenue from each seat flown a mile will
increase about 6 percent from a year earlier, with gains of at
least 10 percent returning in May and June, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  