-- 
Delta Air Reports Smaller Loss Than Estimated on Higher Fares

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-04-26T14:06:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/delta-air-reports-smaller-loss-than-estimated-on-higher-fares.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , the world’s
second-largest carrier, posted a smaller first-quarter loss than
analysts estimated as higher fares helped blunt rising fuel
costs.  The net loss was $318 million, or 38 cents a share,
including a gain related to fuel hedges. That compares with the
50-cent average loss estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Revenue rose 13 percent to $7.75 billion, the
Atlanta-based company said today in a statement.  Delta and other U.S. carriers raised ticket prices six
times last quarter to mitigate a 41 percent jump in jet-fuel
prices from a year earlier. Delta is retiring some of its oldest
and least-efficient planes and cutting capacity after the peak
summer travel season to further lower costs.  “Fuel is the biggest challenge facing this industry, and
Delta is actively reducing capacity, implementing fare actions,
hedging our fuel needs and attacking our cost structure,” Chief
Executive Officer Richard Anderson said in the statement.  The shares rose 54 cents, or 6 percent, to $9.54 at 9:56
a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. A gain for
the day would snap a streak of eight consecutive declines.  Industry Overview  The losses today by Delta and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  meant
that  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  was alone among the five largest
U.S. carriers in posting a first-quarter profit. Delta ceded its
No. 1 ranking in the world by traffic in October with the merger
of United and Continental airlines.  Delta plans to retire an additional 10 of its least-
efficient aircraft over the next 18 months, for a total of 130
planes eliminated, including its DC9-50 jets that are about 35
years old on average, about 60 of its 50-seat regional jets and
some Saab turboprops.  The carrier has also trimmed its capital spending budget
for the year by $300 million, to $1.2 billion, and it plans to
reduce capacity by 4 percentage points in the second half of the
year by cutting flights in markets where fares aren’t covering
fuel costs. The hub in  Memphis  will have departures cut by a
quarter, Delta has said.  Cancellations during severe winter weather reduced revenue
by $90 million, while the plunge in demand for travel to  Japan 
lowered revenue by $35 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  