-- 
Diller’s IAC Rises to Four-Year Peak as Sales Beat Estimates

-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 
2011-04-26T20:34:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/diller-s-iac-rises-to-four-year-peak-after-sales-beat-estimates.html
IAC/InterActiveCorp., the operator
of Match.com and Ask.com, reported a 22 percent increase in
first-quarter revenue, beating analysts’ estimates and pushing
shares up the highest in almost four years.  Net income at IAC, the Web-based company built and
controlled by  Barry Diller , increased to $35.5 million, or 37
cents a share excluding some items, from $2.5 million, or 2
cents a year earlier, according to a statement today. The
results topped the 26 cents average estimate of 15 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  IAC, which operates more than 50 Internet sites and formed
a joint venture in February with  Newsweek magazine , is building
a wide range of digital content and service-oriented businesses.
The New York-based company’s renewed agreement with  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
is worth $5.5 billion over the next five years, Diller said on a
conference call with investors.  “For us to be in these businesses that are related to what
this Internet industry is becoming is a good indication of why
we feel pretty good about things, for the moment and for the
future,” Diller said on a conference call with investors.  IAC rose to $1.86, or 5.8 percent, to $33.74 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, the highest since
April 27, 2007. The shares have risen 18 percent this year.  Sales increased to $460.2 million from $378.2 million a
year earlier, the company said in the statement. That compares
with the $435.7 million analysts had projected.  IAC said April 11 that it has extended its contract with
Google, which provides advertising revenue to IAC’s search
businesses such as Ask.com and Dictionary.com. The new agreement
will run through March 31, 2016, the company said in a
statement.  IAC also announced Nov. 12 that its news website,  Daily
Beast , would combine with Newsweek magazine in a joint venture.  IAC’s prior year results included an impairment charge
related to an investment. The charge was partially offset by a
gain associated with the sale of certain securities, the company
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  