-- 
Dodgers Owner Frank McCourt to Hold Talks with MLB Officials in New York

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-04-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/dodgers-owner-mccourt-will-meet-with-mlb-officials-in-new-york-tomorrow.html
Los Angeles  Dodgers owner  Frank McCourt  will meet today with Major League Baseball executives in
 New York , two days after J. Thomas Schieffer was appointed to
monitor the team’s operations.  McCourt said he plans to discuss a television rights deal
with News Corp.’s Fox network. The Dodgers presented MLB
Commissioner Bud Selig on April 5 with an agreement for a 20-
year contract with Fox worth at least $3 billion, the Los
Angeles Times reported.  The agreement “provides financial stability for the
ballclub for years to come,” McCourt said yesterday in a
statement e-mailed by the Dodgers. “The media rights package is
fully negotiated and it is one of the most favorable ever
reached by a baseball team.”  MLB announced two days ago that Schieffer, the former
president of the  Texas Rangers , will oversee day-to-day
operations of the Dodgers. Selig said last week his office was
taking over operations because of “deep concerns regarding the
finances” of the club. McCourt also wants to talk to baseball
executives about “practical concerns regarding the monitor.”  Schieffer will hold a news conference today in Los Angeles
to discuss his role with the Dodgers, MLB said yesterday in a
news release.  Baseball’s announcement of the takeover came days after the
Times reported that McCourt took a $30 million loan from Fox to
meet payroll.  Ownership Battle  McCourt and his ex-wife, Jamie, who divorced in October
after almost 31 years of marriage, are fighting over who owns
the Dodgers. The McCourts bought the team from  News Corp . in
2004 for $430 million.  Dodgers Vice Chairman Steve Soboroff, who was hired last
week, told the Times that the proposed contract with Fox would
provide McCourt and the Dodgers with the financial stability
that MLB sought when it took over operation of the team.  “This is like having money in the bank and having somebody
hold your ATM card,” Soboroff told the newspaper. “The money
is in the bank. The Fox deal is done. These actions are not
allowing him to access money. That’s a lot different than saying
he’s got financial problems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  