-- 
Dollar Falls to 16-Month Low as Bernanke Unsure When Stimulus Will Unwind

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-04-27T21:11:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/dollar-falls-to-16-month-low-against-euro-amid-speculation-of-fed-support.html
The dollar dropped to a 16-month
low against the euro after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in his first press conference after a policy
decision that he’s unsure when monetary stimulus will unwind.  South Africa ’s rand rallied against all of its most-traded
counterparts after gold surged to a record as the greenback
weakened. The dollar slid for a seventh consecutive day versus
the euro as Bernanke said the central bank will likely continue
reinvesting maturing debt after its $600 billion bond-buying
program expires in June.  “His language does not provide enough to change the
dollar’s downtrend,” said  Jessica Hoversen , an analyst at the
futures broker MF Global Holdings Ltd. in New York. “The Fed
believes that accommodative policy is still necessary, long-run
inflation expectations remain stable and growth fragile.”  The dollar depreciated 1 percent to $1.4786 versus the euro
at 5 p.m. in  New York , from $1.4644 yesterday, after touching
$1.4795, the weakest level since December 2009. The U.S.
currency pared its gain versus the yen, advancing 0.8 percent to
82.16 yen after earlier rising 1.5 percent. The euro advanced
1.7 percent to 121.47 yen, from 119.42.  The rand rose as much as 1.3 percent to 6.5876 versus the
dollar. Gold futures advanced to a record $1,530.30 an ounce on
speculation the Fed will be slow to raise borrowing costs,
boosting the metal as an alternative to the dollar. Gold and
platinum account for a fifth of South Africa’s exports.  Fed on Inflation  The U.S. currency dropped earlier against the euro after
the Fed said in its statement that a pickup in inflation is
likely to be temporary. Bernanke told reporters that the end of
the Fed’s bond-buying program probably won’t have a
“significant” effect on financial markets or the economy.  “Bernanke is very much staying to script,” Boris Schlossberg, director of research at the online currency trader
GFT Forex in New York, said via e-mail. “The longer-term
implications of the first press conference are that the Fed will
remain stationary for the time being while the rest of the G-10
with the exception of  Japan  is moving toward a more tightening
bias.”  IntercontinentalExchange’s Dollar Index, which tracks the
greenback against the currencies of six major trading partners
including the euro, slid 0.7 percent to 73.315 after touching
73.261, the lowest level in more than two years.  Fed policies will lead to a “strong and stable” dollar,
according to Bernanke, who said the U.S. currency still has
“high standing” in the world.  Bernanke on Dollar  “Ultimately the best thing we can do to create strong
fundamentals for the dollar in the medium term is first keep
inflation low, which maintains the buying power of the dollar,
and second create a stronger economy,” Bernanke said.  The  U.S. economy  grew at a 2 percent annual pace in the
first quarter after a 3.1 percent rate of expansion in the last
three months of 2010, according to the median forecast of 80
economists in a Bloomberg News survey before tomorrow’s report
from the Commerce Department.  The central bank held its target rate for overnight lending
between banks at zero to 0.25 percent, as forecast by all of the
84 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The benchmark has
stayed at that level since December 2008.  The Australian dollar touched a record on speculation the
 Reserve Bank  of  Australia  will raise borrowing costs to contain
accelerating inflation.  Australian Inflation  The  consumer price index  gained 1.6 percent in the three
months ended March 31, the most since June 2006, the Bureau of
Statistics said today. The median forecast of 26 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 1.2 percent gain.  The Aussie rose as much as 0.9 percent to $1.0879, the
highest level since the currency was freely floated in 1983. The
 New Zealand dollar  advanced as much as 0.6 percent to 81.08 U.S.
cents, the strongest level since March 2008.  South Korea ’s won appreciated as much as 0.9 percent to
$1,078.45 versus the dollar in its biggest intraday gain in a
week. A Bank of Korea report showed gross domestic product
increased 1.4 percent in the first quarter after a 0.5 percent
gain in the last three months of 2010.  The outlook on Japan’s AA- local-currency government debt
rating, the fourth-highest grade, was lowered to “negative”
from “stable,” S&P said today, citing costs for rebuilding
after the nation’s record earthquake on March 11.  Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa signaled on April
25 that the central bank may expand a lending program aimed at
bolstering growth industries.  Weaker Yen  The yen has weakened 5.2 percent over the past month in the
worst performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The
dollar has declined 4.6 percent.  The euro rose earlier against the greenback after a report
showed European industrial orders gained for a fifth consecutive
month in February.  Aiming to keep annual inflation below 2 percent, the
 European Central Bank  raised its main refinancing rate this
month by a quarter-percentage point to 1.25 percent. It left the
door open for more increases even as nations such as  Greece ,
Ireland and Portugal struggle to contain sovereign-debt turmoil.  Greek two-year yields rose above 25 percent for the first
time, while 10-year bond yields advanced to euro-era highs for a
ninth consecutive day. Greece isn’t considering restructuring,
said an e-mail message from a Finance Ministry press officer,
who cited government policy in asking not to be identified.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  