-- 
Drug-Marketing Limits May Be Voided by U.S. Supreme Court in Vermont Case

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 
2011-04-26T18:18:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/drug-marketing-limits-may-be-voided-by-u-s-supreme-court-in-vermont-case.html
U.S.  Supreme Court  justices
signaled they are poised to overturn a  Vermont  law that would
limit the ability of brand-name drugmakers to target individual
doctors with sales pitches.  Hearing arguments in a case that pits speech rights against
privacy interests, the justices today questioned a Vermont law
governing use of prescription information collected by
pharmacies. The measure bars the use of that data for marketing
without the doctor’s consent.  Several justices questioned whether the law effectively
protected the privacy of doctors, saying the measure would allow
use of the information for other purposes. Chief Justice  John Roberts  and Justices Anthony Kennedy and  Antonin Scalia  all said
the law was aimed at promoting lower-cost generic drugs by
undermining “detailing,” the brand-name industry practice of
one-on-one marketing to doctors.  “What you’re saying is that the state can prohibit the
most efficient sort of speech,” Kennedy told the state’s
lawyer.  The  Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America ,
which represents the  drug industry , is banding together with
data-mining companies including IMS Health Inc. to challenge the
measure. Pharmaceutical companies spend more than $8 billion a
year on detailing, according to trial testimony in the case.  Pitch to Doctors  The data-mining companies buy the prescription information
from pharmacies, which are required by state law to collect data
about the types of drugs and dosages prescribed by individual
doctors. The data-mining companies then package the information
for sale to drug companies, which can use it to pitch their
products to doctors who have been prescribing something else.  Vermont is one of three New England states that restrict
the use of prescription records for marketing, and similar
legislation has been introduced in two dozen other states,
according to Vermont’s appeal.  The 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in  New York  struck
down the Vermont law in a 2-1 ruling. The majority said the
measure violates the First Amendment because it restricts the
speech rights of data miners without directly advancing
legitimate state interests.  The Obama administration is joining Vermont in defending
the measure. The state’s lawyer, Bridget Asay, told the justices
that drug companies “do not have a right to demand access to
information about the doctor’s prescribing practices without his
consent.”  The Same Objective  Scalia said the law didn’t accomplish anything doctors
couldn’t do on their own. “He could achieve the same objective,
could he not, by simply refusing to talk to the marketer?”
Scalia asked.  The lawyer representing the challengers to the law, Thomas Goldstein, pointed to a provision in the measure that says the
“marketplace for ideas on medicine safety” was “in conflict
with the goals of the state.”  “This is truthful and accurate speech, and the state only
wants one side of the debate to get out,” Goldstein said.  That argument resonated with several justices, including
Roberts. He said the state was “censoring” the information
received by doctors “so they will do what you want them to do
when it comes to prescribing drugs.”  ‘Decibel Level’  Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  made a similar point. “Why
doesn’t that run up against what this court has said: that you
can’t lower the decibel level of one speaker so that another
speaker, in this case the generics, can be heard better?” she
asked Asay.  Several news organizations, including Bloomberg LP, the
parent of Bloomberg News, are urging the court to overturn the
law. They say a ruling upholding the law might jeopardize news
gathering.  None of the justices directly came to the law’s defense
today, although several asked whether states could take other
steps to protect physician privacy. Justice  Sonia Sotomayor 
asked whether a state could adopt an “opt out” rule so that
doctors could prevent their information from being used by
marketers. Goldstein said states could.  Justice Elena Kagan later asked whether a state could bar a
pharmacy from selling the data to anybody. Goldstein said such a
rule would protect against commercialization without protecting
privacy.  The justices will likely rule by the end of June in the
case, Sorrell v. IMS Health, 10-779.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 