-- 
Dubai’s Shares Advabce Most in Week on First-Quarter Earnings Optimism

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-04-26T08:40:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/dubai-s-shares-advabce-most-in-week-on-first-quarter-earnings-optimism.html
Dubai’s benchmark stock index
advanced the most in almost a week after  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES)  said
first-quarter profit rose 27 percent, fueling optimism corporate
earnings will exceed analysts’ estimates.  Emirates NBD, the United Arab Emirates biggest bank by
assets, rallied 2.4 percent to the highest intraday level since
December 2009. Arabtec Holding PJSC, the biggest publicly traded
construction company in the emirates, rose for the first time in
seven days.  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB) , the U.A.E.’s biggest bank
complying with Shariah banking rules, gained 1.4 percent. The
 DFM General Index (DFMGI)  climbed 0.8 percent, the most since April 20,
to 1,651.6 at 11:56 a.m. in Dubai.  “There are positive expectations for first-quarter
earnings compared with those in the same period last year,”
said Humam al-Shamaa, economic adviser at Abu Dhabi-based Al-
Fajer Securities LLC. “Investors are anticipating the
results.”  Emirates NBD, the company with the third-heaviest weighting
on Dubai’s index, said first-quarter net income rose to 1.41
billion dirhams ($384 million) from 1.1 billion dirhams helped
by a gain from the sale of a stake in its credit card processing
unit. The mean estimate of seven analysts was for a profit of
1.03 billion dirhams, according to the bank’s website.
The shares rose to 3.85 dirhams and have surged 39 percent so
far this year.  Earnings Estimates        Dubai Islamic Bank, which has the second-heaviest
weighting on Dubai’s gauge, may report a 44 percent increase in
first-quarter profit to 289 million dirhams, according to the
mean estimate of two analysts on Bloomberg. The shares rallied
the most since April 20 to 2.25 dirhams. Arabtec shares climbed
1.4 percent, the most since April 21, to 1.46 dirhams.  Dubai’s index declined 4.6 percent in the first quarter
after uprisings in the Middle East and North Africa that ousted
 Egypt  and  Tunisia ’s leaders expanded to  Oman ,  Saudi Arabia  and
Bahrain. The gauge has advanced 6 percent this month on investor
optimism the emirate’s market will be raised at index provider
MSCI Inc. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has gained 2.5 percent
in the period.  The U.A.E. and Qatar are seeking to secure an upgrade to
emerging-market status at MSCI, which will revalue its
assessment in June, according to its website. Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM) 
lost 0.2 percent.
  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  advanced 0.1 percent, while
 Kuwait ’s gauge gained 0.2 percent. Oman’s  MSM30 Index (MSM30)  rose 0.2
percent and Bahrain’s BB All Share Index dropped 0.3 percent.
The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  tracking Persian Gulf stocks was
little changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  