-- 
Apartment Subsidies Hurt Builder Bonds: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-04-27T22:27:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/easier-apartment-mortgage-subsidies-driving-down-urbi-bonds-mexico-credit.html
(Corrects to show that a call made to Homex’s investor
relations officer went unanswered in 10th paragraph of story
published yesterday. Deletes reference to call made to CEO
Gerardo de Nicolas Gutierrez.)  The Mexican government’s push to
ease a housing shortage is driving up costs for homebuilders,
prompting bonds from Desarrolladora Homex SAB to Urbi
Desarrollos Urbanos SAB to lag behind those of corporate peers.  The 0.7 percent loss in dollar bonds sold by Urbi this year
compares with an average 2.1 percent return for Mexican
corporate debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. Notes from Homex,  Mexico ’s biggest
homebuilder, are up 0.7 percent in the same period, while
securities from Corp. Geo SAB, Mexico’s second-largest
homebuilder, returned 0.2 percent. Homebuilder bonds globally
have returned 4.8 percent this year, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch.  Investors are growing concerned that a government subsidy
encouraging Mexicans to buy apartments instead of houses is
pushing construction companies into a business that requires
larger initial investments. Infonavit, the agency that finances
about 70 percent of mortgages, changed its criteria this year so
that borrowers are more than twice as likely to get a subsidy
for an apartment as for a house.  “There are concerns about the cash-flow cycle,” Natalia Corfield, a corporate bond analyst at ING Groep NV in  New York ,
said in a telephone interview.  Yields on Homex’s $250 million of 9.5 percent bonds due in
2019 have risen 33 basis points this year to 7.63 percent, or
348 basis points more than similar-maturity Mexican government
debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rising Yields  The yield on Geo’s bond due in 2020 climbed 32 basis
points, or 0.32 percentage point, in the same period to 7.54
percent. Similar-maturity dollar debt from Urbi has risen 35
basis points this year to 7.56 percent.  Homex boosted its ratio of net debt to earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to 2.8 times in
2010, a 10-year high, from 1.9 times in 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Urbi’s debt-to-Ebitda ratio climbed to
1.26 times from 1.1 in 2009.  Homebuilders’ rising debt levels are also sparking losses
in equity markets. Geo’s stock is down 25 percent this year, the
worst performer on Mexico’s benchmark index of 37 stocks. Homex
has dropped 21 percent and Urbi 0.4 percent.  “The working capital is limited right now,” Gerardo Copca, an equity analyst at Metanalisis SA in Mexico City, said
in a telephone interview. “The raw material costs are up. The
companies are between a rock and a hard place.”  Overcrowding  A call made to the mobile phone of Vania Fueyo Zarain,
Homex’s investor relations officer, went unanswered. Alejandro
Haiducovich, a Geo spokeswoman, declined to comment and said
company executives weren’t immediately available.  “When you construct the buildings, you can’t sell an
apartment until you’ve completed the whole building, which
extends the working capital cycle,” Antonio Jorge, an investor
relations officer with Urbi, said in a telephone interview from
Mexico City. “The company has been working to increase its
efficiency in the construction process so that this won’t lead
to increased working capital requirements.”  The company’s net debt-to-Ebidta ratio will be less than
2.5 times in 2011, which is conservative, Jorge said.  Government Goals  The government is promoting apartment complexes in a bid to
reduce energy use, prevent overcrowding and house workers closer
to their jobs, according to Victor Borras, Infonavit’s chief
executive officer.  “The model here in Mexico in recent years has been a
single-family model,” Borras said in a telephone interview.
“The undesirable effect is that cities have expanded a lot and
it’s costing more to bring not only public services, but also
for people to transport themselves to their jobs, to their
children’s schools. Vertical housing is becoming indispensable
in achieving more compact cities.”  Starting in May, Infonavit will accept applications for
loans and subsidies as long as six months before a building is
finished to give homebuilders greater security, Borras said.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 137
today, according to JPMorgan.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years fell 1 basis point to 99, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or cash equivalent if the issuer fails to comply with
debt agreements.  Yields on the interbank rate futures contract, known as
TIIE, due in September fell four basis points to 5.01 percent,
indicating that traders expect a rate increase that month. In
the past five years, the gap between the 28-day TIIE and the
overnight rate has averaged 36 basis points.  The peso rose 0.2 percent to 11.5779 per  U.S. dollar .  Relative Risk  Bonds from Homex, Geo and Urbi are attractive because of
the yields the securities offer, said Juan Carlos Moreno, a debt
portfolio manager at Grupo Financiero Interacciones SA.  “I like these bonds for the risk that they have compared
to what they pay,” Moreno said in a telephone interview from
Mexico City.  Homebuilders’ bonds are also slumping after a rally last
year made the securities too expensive, according to Carlos Legaspy, who manages about $300 million in emerging-market debt
at  San Diego , California-based Precise Securities.  Urbi bonds returned 23 percent last year, while Homex bonds
returned 24 percent and Geo notes rallied 19 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Mexican corporate dollar debt
gained 13 percent in 2010, according to JPMorgan.  “It’s just a matter of valuation,” Legaspy said in a
telephone interview. “They were such outperformers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  