-- 
May Opens With Cool Weather for Much of U.S., Forecasters Say

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-04-26T13:21:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/heat-won-t-get-a-grip-on-u-s-until-early-may-rogers-says.html
May will probably get off to a cold
start in much of the U.S., with the Midwest bearing the brunt of
the chilliest weather, according to forecasters.  Temperatures in  Chicago  may dip as low as 35 degrees
Fahrenheit (1.6 Celsius) from May 2 to May 4, while daily
average temperatures may be 9 to 12 degrees below the normal of
54, according to  MDA EarthSat Weather  in Gaithersburg, Maryland.  After this week, warmer air will probably be absent across
most of the U.S. through May 10, said  Matt Rogers , president of
 Commodity Weather Group LLC  in Bethesda, Maryland.  “A variable spring pattern is preventing heat from locking
in anywhere over the next two weeks,” Rogers said in a note to
clients today. “Instead, most areas see occasional quick hits
of heat.”  Natural gas traders monitor  weather forecasts  to determine
whether temperatures boost heating or cooling demand.
Predictions of below-normal or above-normal temperatures may
prompt traders to buy or sell gas futures. Commodity traders
watch precipitation forecasts for potential impact on planting
and yields.  Roger’s 6- to 10-day forecast calls for a large area of
cooling to spread throughout the middle of the country as far
south as  Texas . MDA shows a similar pattern on its 6- to 10-day
forecast maps.  Both look for warmer weather in southern California from
May 1 to May 5.  In his 11- to 15-day forecast, Rogers said pockets of
cooling may develop along the East Coast, in North Dakota and in
parts of the Pacific Northwest. There may be a pocket of heat in
the Southwest and Texas.  MDA’s outlook for the same time period calls for more
cooling extending from the Great Lakes to the Middle Atlantic
states and up into  New England  and the Canadian Maritimes.  New York ’s average temperature in early May is about 58
degrees Fahrenheit (14 degrees Celsius), according to MDA. The
average temperature in  St. Louis  is about 63 degrees; in Boston,
54; in Philadelphia, 59; in Atlanta, 66; and in Dallas, 70.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  