-- 
Medtronic Joins Lilly on Parkinson’s Disease Therapy

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-04-26T20:14:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/medtronic-joins-lilly-on-parkinson-s-disease-therapy-1-.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT) , the world’s largest
maker of heart devices, and  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  said they are
developing a Parkinson’s disease treatment that delivers an
experimental medicine directly into the brain.  The approach will combine a protein from Lilly known to
preserve the function of neurons with a system from Medtronic
that carries the medicine to a key area of the brain. The
treatment is in the earliest stages of development, and working
together may provide the best chance of success, the companies
said today in a statement.  The blending of Medtronic’s medical technology and Lilly’s
biological medicine is designed to produce a therapy that can
breach the blood-brain barrier, one of the biggest obstacles for
treating neurological conditions. While it protects the brain
from infection, the barrier makes it difficult to get antibodies
used to treat some conditions into the brain.  “We have to deliver it to the right area because proteins
can’t cross the blood-brain barrier,” Stephen Oesterle,
Medtronic’s senior vice president for medicine and technology,
said in a telephone interview. “We use a navigation system and
an implantable pump that stores the biologic and continuously
infuses it to mimic human biology.”  Parkinson’s Disease   As many as 10 million people worldwide have  Parkinson’s
disease , a degenerative condition caused by the death of brain
neurons that produce the chemical dopamine used to control
movement. The result is muscle weakness, tremors, stiffness,
loss of coordination and eventually death. Existing drugs, such
as the medication L-dopa, ease symptoms. There is no cure.  The experimental protein preserves the function of
neurological cells that produce the dopamine missing in patients
with Parkinson’s disease, Ros Smith, senior research director in
regenerative biology at Indianapolis-based Lilly, said in a
telephone interview.  “We are maximizing the potential for this therapy’s
efficient and effective development,” said Michael Hutton,
chief scientific officer of neurodegeneration at Lilly, maker of
the antipsychotic therapy Zyprexa. We “are hopeful that early
testing of our biologic with Medtronic’s device will provide the
necessary data to safely advance into human studies.”  Medtronic rose 66 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $41.24 at 4:05
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Lilly gained
59 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $36.82.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  