-- 
Medvedev Urges Worldwide Nuclear Safety as Japan Stirs Fears

-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-04-26T16:08:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/medvedev-urges-worldwide-nuclear-safety-as-japan-stirs-fears-1-.html
President  Dmitry Medvedev  called
for international nuclear safety standards while visiting
Chernobyl today on the 25th anniversary of the world’s worst
nuclear disaster, as Japan’s reactor crisis raises concerns
about Russia’s resurgent atomic industry.  Russia will help develop new safety standards for nuclear
energy after a devastating earthquake and tsunami damaged the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant in Japan last month, Medvedev
said before the trip to Ukraine to commemorate the explosion at
Chernobyl’s No. 4 reactor.  “We need to understand what force people are dealing
with,” the Russian president said today in Chernobyl city,
where he and his Ukrainian counterpart  Viktor Yanukovych 
unveiled a monument.  The Chernobyl disaster killed at least 31 plant workers and
firefighters in three months and forced the evacuation of a
quarter of a million people. That accident released at least 100
times more radiation than the atomic bombs dropped on Nagasaki
and Hiroshima. Particles scattered as far as the U.K., while
Ukraine, Belarus and parts of  Russia  bore the worst of the
contamination.  Russia’s proposals to improve international nuclear safety
regulations were today sent to the Group of Eight nations, as
well as to BRICS countries, the  Commonwealth of Independent
States  and the  International Atomic Energy Agency ,  Arkady
Dvorkovich , Medvedev’s aide, said in a Kremlin statement e-
mailed today.  Makeshift Shelter  The plant, covered by a makeshift shelter, still leaks
radiation, as Ukraine seeks to collect funds globally to build a
new confinement. Even with radiation leaks, Chernobyl has become
a tourist destination.  A quarter of century later, workers are battling to contain
radiation leaks at Fukushima after the March 11 earthquake and
tsunami, while countries such as  Germany  said they will revise
plans for the development of nuclear energy.  Japan’s government ranked the Fukushima crisis as a level 7
accident, the highest severity rating on an international scale,
matching that of the Chernobyl disaster.  “Fukushima is 10 percent of what happened at Chernobyl,”
Ukraine’s Ambassador to Japan Mykola Kulinich said today in
 Tokyo , referring to the damage to people and the environment.  Safety Meeting  Medvedev and Yanukovych met to discuss nuclear safety
today, as some European governments review plans for atomic
energy. In Germany,  Chancellor Angela Merkel  last month ordered
the seven oldest plants idled pending industrywide safety checks
after the Japanese reactors leaked radiation, triggering
protests against nuclear power across  Europe .  “The recent events reminded humankind that we shouldn’t
relax,” Medvedev said yesterday at a meeting with liquidators,
as people who battled the Chernobyl meltdown are known. Russia’s
safety standards are now higher than in many other advanced
countries, he said.  The Fukushima accident shouldn’t stop development of
nuclear energy, Medvedev said on April 15.  Rosatom Corp., Russia’s nuclear holding company, plans to
at least triple sales to $50 billion by 2030, as China and  India 
order more reactors and fuel, Chief Executive Officer  Sergei Kiriyenko  said in September.  Nuclear Energy  Nuclear energy accounts for 16 percent of Russia’s total
power generation, while the country plans to increase that to as
much as 30 percent in the long term, Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said last year.  More than half of Russians believe a nuclear disaster
similar to that in  Japan  could happen in Russia “in the next
few years,” according to a survey of 1,600 people conducted by
the state-run All-Russian Center for the Study of Public
Opinion, or VTsIOM, on March 26 and 27. About 9 percent would
opt for a shift away from nuclear power and a ban on new power
plants, VTsIOM said on its website.  Radiation levels near the Chernobyl reactor are currently
about 300 times more than normal in the center of Kiev, the
Ukrainian capital 150 kilometers (93 miles) away, said the
 site ’s chief engineer, Andrii Savin.  The area 30 kilometers around Chernobyl “is a dead zone,”
Kulinich said. “It is not a Disneyland.”  The site draws travelers, especially after the Fukushima
accident.  ‘Lot of Demand’  “There is a lot of demand,” Dmitry Chernov, project
coordinator of Tour2Kiev, which organizes trips to Chernobyl,
said by phone from  Kiev . “Now it is linked to the situation at
Fukushima.”  One-day excursions for English-speaking tourists from the
Ukrainian capital into the exclusion zone and a visit to the
power plant cost $150 to $160, according to the agency’s
website. Radiation absorbed during the trip doesn’t exceed that
on a transatlantic flight, the agency said.  “Tourists from the European Union, the Germans, Dutch,
French, Scandinavians, are the most frequent guests,” Chernov
said. “Europeans are better informed about the situation in the
zone than Russian and Ukrainian citizens.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  