-- 
Most Emerging-Market Stocks Fall on Chinese Rates, Fed Concern

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 
2011-04-26T21:53:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/emerging-market-stocks-fall-for-second-day-on-china-fed-concern.html
Most Emerging-market stocks fell,
sending the benchmark index lower for a second day, amid concern
earnings growth will slow as  China  curbs credit expansion and
the  Federal Reserve  ends its bond-buying program.  Four-hundred-twenty stocks fell on the index while just 353
rose, leaving the MSCI Emerging Markets Index down less than 0.1
percent to 1,203.33. China’s Shanghai Composite Index slid 0.9
percent to the lowest level this month, while  India ’s Bombay
Stock Exchange Sensitive Index retreated 0.2 percent. Russia’s
Micex Index slipped 0.2 percent.  China’s banking regulator set capital targets for the five
biggest lenders above the minimum 11.5 percent ratio on concern
credit risks may rise, three people with knowledge of the matter
said. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is scheduled to speak to
reporters after a policy meeting tomorrow as the end of its $600
billion bond-purchase program approaches in June. China Life
Insurance Co., the nation’s biggest insurer, fell for a third
day in  Shanghai  after first-quarter profit sank 22 percent.  “More earnings will come out in the coming days and there
may be concerns that some may miss their estimates,” said
Fadlul Imansyah, who helps manage about $219 million at Jakarta-
based PT CIMB Principal Asset Management.  Per-share earnings for companies in the MSCI emerging-
market index that reported first-quarter results so far trailed
analysts’ estimates by an average 3.6 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a positive surprise of
8.5 percent on average for companies in the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index,
the data show.  Yield Spreads  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  rose 3 basis points to 272, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index. Colombia’s peso led
declines in emerging-market currencies, weakening 0.5 percent
against the dollar.  The Shanghai Composite retreated for a third day. China
Life slid 2.6 percent as Citigroup Inc. said its earnings were
“lackluster” and Datong Coal Industry Co., China’s third-
largest producer of the fuel, lost 1.5 percent. Jiangxi Copper
Co. led declines in commodity producers as the metal fell as
much as 3.3 percent in London.    Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd. lost 0.3
percent in Hong Kong trading after the world’s largest lender by
market value and three rivals were told last month to maintain
capital adequacy ratios of at least 11.8 percent in 2011, one
person said, declining to be identified as the plan isn’t
public. Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., the nation’s fourth
biggest, should target 11.7 percent, two people said.  U.S. Data  Russia’s Micex slid for a second day as OAO Lukoil
retreated 1 percent. Crude futures fell from a 31-month high in
 New York  after Saudi Arabia’s national oil company indicated the
kingdom isn’t comfortable with current prices, prompting some
investors to sell contracts.  Emerging market stocks pared losses of as much as 0.7
percent after the confidence among U.S. consumers increased more
than forecast in April, signaling the world’s biggest economy is
recovering.  The Conference Board’s confidence index rose to 65.4 from a
revised 63.8 reading in March, figures from the New York-based
private research group showed today. The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called projected an
advance to 64.5.  Brazil ’s Bovespa stock index rose 0.3 percent, rebounding
from yesterday’s drop. Banco do Brasil SA, Latin America’s
biggest bank by assets, gained 1.4 percent after was raised to
“overweight” from “neutral” at JPMorgan Chase & Co. Petroleo
Brasileiro SA rose 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in  London  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  