-- 
Emirates NBD First-Quarter Net Rises 27% on Stake Sale in Credit Card Unit

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-04-26T13:43:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/emirates-nbd-first-quarter-net-rises-27-on-stake-sale-in-credit-card-unit.html
Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , the  United Arab
Emirates ’ biggest bank by assets, said it aims to boost lending
this year as liquidity improves and economic growth accelerates
after reporting a 27 percent rise in first-quarter profit.  Net income advanced to 1.41 billion dirhams ($385 million),
or 24 fils a share, from 1.1 billion dirhams, or 19 fils, a year
ago, the Dubai government-controlled bank said in a statement
today. Emirates NBD said on its website the mean estimate of
seven analysts was for a profit of 1.03 billion dirhams.  “Our strategic focus for 2011 would shift gradually from
strengthening the bank to growth acceleration,” Chief Executive
Officer  Rick Pudner  said on a conference call today. The bank
aims to expand its loan book by 4 percent this year by
increasing lending to small and medium-sized firms as well as
into credit cards and auto loans, he said.  U.A.E. banks have been hurt by the global credit crisis,
which weakened lending and investment banking while provisions
for bad loans increased. Emirates NBD’s loan book contracted 8.2
percent last year amid weak economic growth in the country.  The bank’s first-quarter profit was boosted by a 1.84-
billion-dirham gain from the sale in March of a 49 percent stake
in its credit-card processing unit, Network International LLC,
to private-equity company Abraaj Capital Ltd. The lender also
booked an impairment charge of 1.37 billion dirhams in the first
quarter compared with 555 million dirhams a year earlier.  Bad Loans  Emirates NBD’s bad loans to total-lending ratio rose to
10.4 percent in the quarter and is expected to peak at 13
percent to 14 percent, Chief Financial Officer Surya Subramanian
said on the call. An increase in provisions improves the bank’s
capacity to absorb future losses, he said.  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC (NBAD) , the U.A.E.’s second-
biggest bank by assets, on April 19 reported a 10 percent fall
in first-quarter profit to 927 million dirhams as loan-loss
charges rose.  First Gulf Bank PJSC (FGB) , the lender controlled by  Abu
Dhabi ’s ruling family, said profit for the period ended March 31
dropped 5 percent as a one-time gain wasn’t repeated.  Emirates NBD shares rose 2.4 percent in Dubai today to 3.85
dirhams, the highest since December 2009, bringing the gain for
the year to 39 percent. That compares with a 6.2 percent
increase in the Dubai Financial Market Financial Banks Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  