-- 
Merscorp Mortgage Registry Has Civil Racketeering Suit Dropped in New York

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-04-26T17:14:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/merscorp-mortgage-registry-has-racketeering-suit-dropped-1-.html
Merscorp Inc., which runs an
electronic registry of mortgages, had a civil-racketeering
lawsuit against it voluntarily dismissed.  The plaintiffs, who accused the company and its Mortgage
Electronic Registration Systems of forcing false foreclosures in
 New York  state, reached an undisclosed settlement with the
Steven J. Baum PC foreclosure law firm in Amherst, New York.
U.S. District Judge  Jack B. Weinstein  in Brooklyn closed the
case April 14.  “The plaintiffs settled with another defendant and
voluntarily dismissed the case against us,” Janis Smith, a
Merscorp spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “The case was without
any merit against both Merscorp Inc. and Mortgage Electronic
Registration Systems.”  Steven Baum, his firm and Merscorp, based in Vienna,
 Virginia , were sued last August by  Manhattan  lawyer Susan Chana
Lask representing two home-loan borrowers in Brooklyn and  Rock
Hill , New York. Other suits accusing MERS and its members of
conspiracy in the way MERS operates have been filed in federal
courts. A suit in  Florida  was dismissed by the judge in
February. That decision has been appealed. A Kentucky case was
voluntarily dismissed in February.  “The parties involved in the matter have settled it
amicably,” Earl Wells, a spokesman for Baum, said in an e-mail.  Foreclosure Fees  The New York borrowers accused Baum of filing “tens of
thousands of foreclosures” involving mortgages that weren’t
properly assigned and of overcharging on foreclosure fees. Baum
denied the allegations. MERS allows banks to sell mortgages
among each other without having to register the transfers in
county records.  The suit sought class-action status on behalf of homeowners
in the state with similar circumstances.  “The settlement was amicable for the parties who have
faith in Attorney General Schneiderman’s and, from what we
understand from media reports, the Department of Justice
investigation, which are the best departments to handle this
matter for the public,” Lask said in an e-mail.  Eric Schneiderman , New York’s attorney general, subpoenaed
Baum’s firm this month, asking for documents submitted on behalf
of the firm in court and to parties representing individuals in
foreclosure, according to a person familiar with the matter who
declined to be identified because the matter isn’t public. Wells
has said the law firm is “cooperating fully” with the attorney
general’s office.  Federal Prosecutors  The probe was reported April 9 in the New York Times, which
said federal prosecutors in Manhattan have also requested
information about the firm’s practices, citing an unnamed lawyer
who has litigated against it.  The dismissal of the Brooklyn case allows the possibility
that one of the plaintiffs, Jeffrey Miller, could re-file a
lawsuit against MERS, Lask said.  In November, Baum sued Lask in state court in Buffalo for
defamation over comments she made, including in a press release
announcing her lawsuit, on a YouTube video and in a Buffalo News
article. The parties agreed to dismiss that suit, which was
moved to federal court in Buffalo, on April 14.  In a March 30 letter to U.S. Magistrate Judge James Orenstein in  Brooklyn , Brett A. Scher, a lawyer for Baum, said
Lask was trying to improperly tie settlements of the two cases.  ‘Conflict of Interest’  “We advised plaintiffs’ counsel that her attempt to link
the settlement of the two actions together was a conflict of
interest,” he wrote. In the defamation suit, “plaintiffs’
counsel -- not her clients (the plaintiffs in this action) --
are the defendants.”  “If Mr. Baum is serious, then he will globally close all
matters, make me whole regarding the action he filed upstate,”
Lask told Scher in a March 28 e-mail, according to his letter.
“One cannot be closed without the other.”  In his letter, Scher, who didn’t represent Baum in the
defamation case, quoted an e-mail from Lask that day saying that
he was first to raise settling the two cases together. He denied
that in the letter.  Scher said in the letter that Lask attempted “to put her
own financial interests ahead of her clients.”  “Litigation is contentious, so whatever Mr. Scher wrote at
times regarding the case or getting personal about me, I wrote
as much about him and his clients at other times as we both had
our positions,” Lask said in her e-mail. “It’s a docket, not a
determination.”  Scher didn’t immediately return a call for comment.  Attorneys General   All 50 U.S. state attorneys general are investigating
whether banks, loan servicers and law firms properly prepared
documents to justify hundreds of thousands of foreclosures.  A complaint in one lawsuit in which Baum’s firm is accused
of charging homeowners illegally for attending foreclosure-
settlement conferences says it is “believed to be the largest
foreclosure mill in the state of New York.” The firm is seeking
to have that complaint dismissed.  The cases are Campbell v. Baum, 10-cv-3800, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn), and Baum v.
Lask, 11-cv-197, U.S. District Court, Western District of New
York (Buffalo).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  