-- 
Eshraq Seeks to Raise $225 Million in First U.A.E. Property IPO Since 2007

-- B y   Z a h r a a   A l k h a l i s i   a n d   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 
2011-04-26T12:06:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/eshraq-seeks-to-raise-225-million-in-first-u-a-e-property-ipo-since-2007.html
Eshraq Properties Co. PJSC  plans to
raise 825 million dirhams ($225 million) in the first initial
public offering by a United Arab Emirates real-estate developer
since 2007.  The company plans to sell a 55 percent stake during an
offer period from May 1 to May 11 that’s open only to nationals
of the six-member Gulf Cooperation Council countries. A total of
825 million shares will be offered at 1 dirham each, plus two
fils for administrative costs, Eshraq said in a statement today.  The last U.A.E. developer to hold an initial public
offering was Dubai’s  Deyaar Development (DEYAAR)  PJSC in September 2007.
About a year later, the global credit crisis sparked a slump in
property prices as speculators were driven from the market and
banks cut lending.  “There is no doubt we are going through a difficult time,
but this doesn’t mean there is no money,” Eshraq Chairman Saleh
Mohammed Bin Nasrah said at a press conference in Abu Dhabi
today. “There are investors looking for opportunities.”  U.A.E. house prices may drop another 30 percent as
population growth stagnates and more new properties are put onto
the market, Dubai Investment bank Rasmala said in March. That
follows an estimated 62 percent price decline in Dubai and a 45
percent slide in  Abu Dhabi  since prices peaked in mid-2008.  Office Towers, Apartments  Eshraq’s projects include the 7.5 billion-dirham Marina
Rise on Abu Dhabi’s Al Reem Island. The development will include
three residential and four commercial towers. The company’s
projects also include Gateway Towers in Abu Dhabi and Jumeirah
Rise in Dubai.  The money raised by the IPO will fund development, Vice
Chairman Jamal Al Saghir told reporters today. In Marina Rise,
Eshraq sold 19 plots, or 80 percent of the land, to sub
developers. The company is planning to start construction of two
towers there this year at a cost of 200 million dirhams.  “We think the Abu Dhabi project will give a better return
for the investor,” Al Saghir said.  The developer won’t start Jumeirah Rise in Dubai until
construction on the Abu Dhabi projects is 40 percent completed,
Al Saghir said. “We don’t want to rush the project without
feasibility study.”  Eshraq’s assets were valued at 1.9 billion dirhams as of
the end of 2009, according to the IPO prospectus. Royal Capital
PJSC was appointed as lead manager for the share sale and
National Bank of Abu Dhabi is the lead receiving bank. Other
participating banks include First Gulf Bank, Abu Dhabi
Commercial Bank,  Union National Bank , Emirates Islamic Bank and
Dubai Islamic Bank.  Eshraq will be listed on Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index. (ADSMI)  The
measure’s real estate index, which includes  Aldar Properties
PJSC (ALDAR) ,  Sorouh Real Estate Co. (SOROUH)  and  RAK Properties PJSC (RAKPROP) , lost 52
percent in the past 12 months. The GCC countries are the U.A.E.,
Qatar, Bahrain,  Saudi Arabia ,  Kuwait  and Oman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahraa Alkhalisi in Abu Dhabi at 
 zalkhalisi@bloomberg.net 
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 