-- 
Messina Provides a ‘Sneak Peek’ at Obama’s Strategy for 2012 Re-Election

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-04-26T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/messina-gives-sneak-peek-at-obama-s-2012-re-election-strategy.html
Jim Messina , who is running Barack Obama’s 2012 campaign, told supporters in an Internet video
released yesterday that they will have to “scratch and claw”
to get the U.S. president re-elected.  “We have to act like an insurgent campaign that wakes up
every single day trying to get every single vote we can,”
Messina said in the video, which was described as a “sneak peek
at 2012 strategy.”  Messina, who earlier this year resigned his position as
deputy White House chief of staff to manage the campaign, laid
out tactics that he said had worked in 2008, including expanding
the electorate to register more voters than Republicans. He said
campaign workers should reconnect with past supporters through
social media sites, along with using more traditional methods
such as calling voters on the telephone and knocking on their
doors.  “We’ve got to assume every single day that we need to
build something new, better, faster and sleeker,” he said in
the  video message  e-mailed to supporters and posted on Obama’s
 campaign website . “Republicans are going to be fired up to take
on President Obama.”  In the 2010 midterm elections, Republicans won control of
the House and gained seats in the Senate. Responding yesterday
to Messina’s video, Republican National Committee spokeswoman
Kirsten Kukowski said in an e-mailed statement that “it’s no
surprise” Obama’s campaign is “desperately seeking something
new, because the American people simply can’t afford four more
years of the status quo.” She cited rising gasoline prices as
one of the failures of Obama’s first term.  Citizens United Decision  Messina said the U.S. Supreme Court’s 2010 decision in the
Citizens United case, which gave corporations the ability to use
their treasuries to fund political ads through Election Day, has
“fundamentally changed the way campaigns are funded.”
Republican groups have set a goal of raising $120 million to
defeat Obama in 2012, Messina said -- something they could not
have legally done before the high court’s ruling.  “We have to compete with that,” he said in the  video ,
sitting in front of a map of the U.S. “What you all are going
to build will be even stronger than that.”  Democrats are setting up organizations to counter outside
Republican groups such as  Karl Rove ’s Crossroads Global Policy
Strategies. Former White House deputy press secretary  Bill Burton  and Sean Sweeney, a former top aide to then-White House
chief of staff  Rahm Emanuel , are forming a group with a goal of
raising $100 million on behalf of Obama for his re-election.  Messina asked supporters to summon the level of enthusiasm
they had for Obama in 2008, sign up on the campaign’s website
and  Facebook page , and donate “five or 10 dollars to help us
get started.”  Campaign Papers Filed  On April 4 the president filed paperwork with the  Federal
Election Commission  to begin his bid for re-election. Since then
he has traveled across the country in an effort to make the case
for a second term by listing the accomplishments of his first,
such as overhauling the U.S. health-care system and imposing new
regulations on the financial industry while balancing two wars
and dealing with an  unemployment rate  that reached a 26-year
high of 10.2 percent nine months after he took office and is now
8.8 percent.  Messina has asked the top fundraisers to each collect at
least $350,000 this year alone -- a significant increase over
Obama’s first presidential campaign, for which members of the
candidate’s national finance committee were each asked to raise
$250,000 in the two-year 2007-08 election cycle.  Fund Raising  Last week Obama attended events in  San Francisco  and  Los
Angeles  that were expected to bring in between $4 million and $5
million, according to a Democratic official who was not
authorized to publicly discuss the party’s fundraising. The
price of individual admission ranged from $25 for parties for
younger voters to $35,800 for exclusive dinners.  The president and his wife, Michelle, will travel to
 Chicago  tomorrow to tape “The Oprah Winfrey Show.” Later in
the day they will attend fundraisers in  New York City .  Analysts say they expect the 2012 presidential election to
cost $3 billion, about 50 percent more than the $2 billion the
 Federal Election Commission  said was spent in 2008 by
candidates, the political parties and outside groups.  Obama raised a record $745 million in 2007-08, and he was
the first major-party nominee to reject public financing for the
general election.  Republican Candidates  So far no clear Republican frontrunner has emerged.
Mississippi Governor Haley Barbour said yesterday that he will
not seek the White House in 2012. Former Governors Tim Pawlenty
of  Minnesota  and  Mitt Romney  of Massachusetts have established
presidential  exploratory   committees , taking the first official
step toward bids for the White House.  Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of  Georgia  on March 3
announced the establishment of a  website  to enable him to raise
money and possibly run for president. Other prospective 2012
Republican candidates include former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee; former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, the party’s 2008
vice presidential nominee; Governor Mitch Daniels of  Indiana , a
former director of the Office of Management and Budget; and
former Utah Governor  Jon Huntsman , who is stepping down as U.S.
ambassador to  China  this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  