-- 
Estonia Plans to Retain Green Energy Subsidies, Analyse Effects

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-04-26T09:11:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/estonia-plans-to-retain-green-energy-subsidies-analyse-effects.html
Estonia ’s government plans to keep
its subsidies for renewable energy producers, to enable the
country to meet green energy targets. It’s thus reversing a
pledge by Economy Minister Juhan Parts to reduce the support.  The Economy Ministry will analyse the effects of the
subsidy system, introduced in 2007, to decide on an optimal
level of support, the state chancellery said yesterday in an e-
mailed draft plan for the new government’s four-year term. The
draft is due to be formally approved tomorrow.  Parts, a member of the junior coalition party Isamaa ja Res
Publica Liit, said last September that the government wanted to
reduce the subsidies by as much as half, to lower costs for
consumers. Prime Minister  Andrus Ansip  said then that there
should be no cut until after March general elections, so as not
to damage investors’ trust in the country.  Continuing the support arrangement would enable Estonia to
meet its target of raising the share of renewable energy in
final consumption to 23.6 percent in 2015 and 25 percent in
2020, from 19.5 percent in 2009, and possibly even exceed those
targets, mainly through growing use of  wind energy , according to
the draft “Estonia 2020” competitiveness strategy, also e-
mailed by the chancellery.  Return on investment was 16 percent to 25 percent in four
Estonian wind parks, 20 percent to 28 percent in two biomass-
fired co-generation plants and 20 percent to 41 percent in five
hydro plants, according to an analysis by the country’s
competition watchdog published last September.  Investment Return  The plants would return investment in two to six years,
according to the analysis. Renewable energy advocates said then
that the time frame used was too short and no account was taken
of rising investment costs of projects still in the pipeline.  In February 2007, Estonia’s parliament raised the purchase
price paid to renewable energy producers by 42 percent, to 115
senti (9.48 cents) per kilowatt-hour, overriding a government
plan to keep it unchanged. The price set for electricity from
co-generation plants exceeded the government plan by 72 percent.  Further subsidies for electricity sold from renewable
sources were set as much as 212 percent higher than the
government planned.  Renewable energy subsidies are essential for the long-term
investment plans of green-energy producers in Estonia, Bruno de
Pellegars, the vice executive president of Dalkia International,
a subsidiary of  France ’s Veolia Environnement, said last
September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  