-- 
Eurostat Has ‘Reservations’ About Romanian Budget-Gap Data

-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 
2011-04-26T12:38:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/eurostat-has-reservation-on-romania-budget-deficit-figures.html
Eurostat, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg, said it has a “reservation”
about the quality of 2010 budget-deficit and government-debt
data reported by  Romania .  The reservation is “due to uncertainties on the impact of
some public corporations on the government deficit,” according
to a document published today. The statistics office also has
doubts about reporting some accounts under the European
Standards of Accounting and “on the nature and impact of some
financial transactions and on the consolidation of intra-
governmental flows.”  Romania, which reported a budget gap of 6.48 percent of
gross domestic product last year, below an International
Monetary Fund-agreed target of 6.8 percent, plans to narrow the
gap to 4.4 percent of this year and 3 percent next year.  The Romanian Statistics said today that a team from the
institute, the  Finance Ministry  and the central bank is
reviewing the financial statements of the state-owned companies
to identify data discrepancies.  Romania will send the necessary details to the Luxemburg-
based institute to clear up doubts for the next report, which is
due in September, INS said in an e-mailed statement.  The government will need to solve the problem of unpaid
debts of state-owned companies, which total about 5 percent of
GDP, Jeffrey Franks, the IMF’s mission chief in the country,
said on Feb. 8, without giving more details. The impact may be
less than 1 percentage point, Istvan Szekely, the EU’s mission
chief to the country, said the same day.  Romania had the 27-nation bloc’s fourth-lowest ratio of
debt to GDP, at 30.8 percent, after Estonia, Bulgaria and
Luxemburg, Eurostat also said today.  The leu traded up 0.06 percent to the euro at 4.0731 as of
15:13 a.m. in Bucharest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  