-- 
European Soccer Body UEFA Pledges It Will Follow Through on Spending Curbs

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-04-26T12:30:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/european-soccer-body-uefa-pledges-it-will-follow-through-on-spending-curbs.html
European soccer’s governing body
will follow through on its plan to ban teams from the Champions
League for failing to meet new rules on financial control, an
adviser to the organization’s president said today.  UEFA  has warned clubs they face the possible exclusion from
 Europe ’s elite team competition from the start of the 2014-15
season if costs aren’t cut to meet the guidelines.  “The litmus test of whether we are serious or not in
implementing the rules of financial fair play will come on the
day a major European club will foul of the rules,” William Gaillard, an adviser to  UEFA  President  Michel Platini , told a
group of U.K. lawmakers conducting an inquiry into soccer
governance. “If on that day we do not sanction them with what
is in the book, we will have failed.”  UEFA will start auditing financial statements from next
season and allow clubs to cover losses of up to 45 million euros
($65.7 million) for the next three seasons. The regulations
stipulate that losses must be lower in subsequent seasons, with
a goal of teams’ spending being balanced by revenue.  The new financial strategy was devised by UEFA to tackle
what Platini described as “financial doping,” when rich owners
are able to spend millions in an effort to buy success. Premier
League rivals  Manchester City  and Chelsea, owned by Gulf-based
and Russian billionaires, have both recorded losses of more than
100 million pounds ($165 million). Chelsea ended a 50-year wait
for the English championship by winning back to back titles in
2005 and 2006.  More Flexible  The rules have been adopted after dialogue with the
European Club Association, an umbrella body representing about
200 teams from across the continent. The ECA fought successfully
to get UEFA to be more flexible than it originally intended to
be, by for example allowing clubs to carry losses in the early
years and also looking favorably on ones that show a trend
toward improving their balance sheets. The rules also allow
unlimited spending on stadium infrastructure and youth
development.  “We have a slope that leads to Hell, which is exclusion
from competition, but our wish is to never go that far,”
Gaillard said.  John W. Henry, who heads the group that bought 18-time
English champion Liverpool, and Thomas DiBenedetto, the new
majority investor in Roma, both cited financial fair play as the
reason behind their investment in European soccer. Henry and
DiBenedetto are partners in Fenway Sports Group, which owns
Major League Baseball’s Boston Red Sox.  “It’s a much more predictable environment, more similar to
what they’re used to in American sports,” Gaillard said, adding
financial fair play would curb “crazy” spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London on  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 