-- 
Lexmark Tumbles After Earnings and Forecast Miss Estimates

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-04-26T21:21:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/lexmark-tumbles-after-earnings-and-forecast-miss-estimates-1-.html
Lexmark International Inc. (LXK) , a maker
of laser and inkjet printers, fell the most in six months after
missing analysts’ expectations with first-quarter earnings and
its second-quarter forecast.  Shares of Lexington, Kentucky-based Lexmark dropped $5.53,
or 14 percent, to $32.76 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. The stock had increased 10 percent this year
before today.  Lexmark Chief Executive Officer Paul Rooke, who took over
from Paul Curlander in October, is stepping up the company’s
emphasis on corporate clients to sell higher-margin products and
services, including repair, restocking and touchscreen software.
Results were also buffeted by “aggressive competitive pricing”
by rivals, Rooke said on a conference call with analysts.  “We expect shares of neutral-rated Lexmark to be under
pressure in the near term,” said Mark Moskowitz, an analyst
with JPMorgan in  San Francisco , in a report today. “Investors
will be concerned by both the EPS reset to the June outlook and
the company’s commentary around increasing pricing pressures.”  The company said today in a statement that second-quarter
per-share profit will be $1.00 to $1.10 excluding some costs,
five cents below the average estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  First-quarter net income fell 13 percent to $83.3 million,
or $1.04 a share, from $95.3 million, or $1.20, a year earlier.
Profit excluding some items was $1.14, ten cents less than the
average estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Public Sector ‘Softness’  Also weighing on demand for certain laser printers was
“softness” in the public sector, Rooke said on the conference
call.  Hardware shipments declined about 11 percent from last
year, missing an estimated increase of 5 percent by Richard Gardner, an analyst at Citigroup Inc., according to a note
today.  The declines in some businesses masked improved performance
in certain high-end products, including inkjet printers for
businesses, Rooke said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 