-- 
Fed Confidence in Transitory Inflation Hinges on Low Wage Gains

-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 
2011-04-26T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/fed-confidence-in-transitory-inflation-increase-hinges-on-low-wage-gains.html
Brady Miller is paying more for
vinyl siding for his construction business and for groceries to
feed his family. He can’t charge customers more, showing why
some Federal Reserve officials say inflation will ease.  “We don’t spend money on anything, we don’t take
vacations, and I am not saving money right now,” Miller, 36,
says. He has told his wife that he is going to drive their 2005
Dodge Caravan “until that thing falls apart.”  The Mossville,  Illinois , homebuilder also hasn’t given his
crew of two a raise in two years and says they shouldn’t expect
one soon. Their predicament illustrates the downside of what Fed
Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  calls “transitory” inflation:
Household purchasing power is shrinking because wages and
salaries aren’t keeping pace with food and energy prices.  Researchers at the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  are
also finding no evidence that higher prices are boosting
expectations for wage increases, suggesting underlying inflation
and consumer spending will remain low. That’s why officials led
by Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will be in no hurry to withdraw
record stimulus after completing a $600 billion bond-purchase
program in June, said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JP
Morgan Securities LLC.  “It’s tough,” Feroli said. “Consumers will have to
reduce real spending” if they don’t draw down savings or take
on more debt. He said the Fed will probably keep its balance
sheet constant by reinvesting maturing bond proceeds for several
weeks after it stops outright purchases. It may then allow the
record $2.69 trillion balance sheet to “passively decline” in
the second half of this year as investments mature, said Feroli.  Stay Near Zero  Feroli is also among analysts who say the  Federal Open
Market Committee , which concludes a two-day meeting tomorrow, is
likely to repeat that the key interest rate will stay near zero
for “an extended period.”  Economists at New York-based JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut their
estimate for U.S. growth in the first quarter to a 1.4 percent
annual rate from 2.5 percent. That would be less than half the
fourth quarter’s 3.1 percent pace. One reason for the slowdown:
consumer dollars after inflation buy fewer goods and services.  The  consumer price index  rose 2.7 percent for the year that
ended in March, the fastest 12-month pace since December 2009.
Average hourly earnings, adjusted for inflation, fell 1 percent
during the same period.  “If the labor market were tight, workers could say, ‘I am
getting squeezed, can I get a raise?’” said  Julia Coronado ,
chief economist for  North America  at BNP Paribas in  New York .
That’s not an option with 13.5 million unemployed Americans
competing for work and a jobless rate of 8.8 percent, she said.  Political Unrest  Inflation is accelerating as political unrest in the Middle
East drives up the price of crude oil, and rising demand in
 China  and other emerging markets -- coupled with droughts in
grain-exporters such as  Russia  -- pushes up food prices. The
average price for unleaded gasoline stands at $3.86 per gallon,
according to the American Automobile Association, a 35 percent
increase from a year ago.  The breakeven rate for two-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities, the yield difference between the
inflation-linked debt and comparable maturity Treasuries, has
risen to 2.57 percentage points in New York from 2.48 percentage
points at the end of March.  Petroleum-based homebuilding materials like shingles and
felt paper “have consistently gone up” in price, Miller said.
“I have had to lower my margins just to keep busy” in the face
of tighter competition during the recent economic downturn, he
said. “I am getting my ass kicked.”  Excluding food and energy, which tend to be volatile,
consumer prices rose 1.2 percent in March from a year earlier. A
gauge watched by Fed policy makers, which tracks prices tied to
 consumer spending , rose by 0.9 percent. That compares with the
Fed’s long-term goal of about 2 percent inflation.  Recent ‘Shocks’  “Recent commodity price shocks are likely to have only a
transitory effect on inflation,” Yellen said in an April 11
speech to the  Economic Club of New York . “With resource slack
likely to diminish only gradually over the next few years, it
seems reasonable to anticipate that underlying inflation will
remain subdued for some time,” she said.  Yellen said the Fed’s current “accommodative stance” is
still appropriate because “unemployment remains elevated” and
“longer-run inflation expectations remain well anchored.”  How households form expectations for future inflation is
the subject of research by New York Fed economists who teamed up
with behavioral psychologists from  Carnegie Mellon University  in
Pittsburgh and researchers from RAND Corp., the  Santa Monica ,
California-based research firm.  Median Wage Growth  Their survey of about 400 people in February showed that
year-ahead median wage growth expectations remained below 1
percent, where they have been since February 2009.  “While this is a troubling sign for wage earners’ incomes,
it suggests that concerns about wages exerting second-order
effects on inflation are not founded at present,” New York Fed
economist Giorgio Topa and colleagues wrote in an April 18 blog.  That hasn’t stopped some companies from passing rising
costs on to consumers.  Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest U.S.
automaker, raised prices by $117, or 0.4 percent, per vehicle
this month because of higher costs for raw materials such as
steel.  Hartford, Connecticut-based  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) , the
world’s largest maker of air conditioners, increased prices
about 2 percent to 6 percent in its Carrier residential division
in February to offset higher prices for copper.  “Those prices seem to be sticking,” chief financial
officer Gregory Hayes told investors on an April 20 conference
call.  Inflation Tolerance  How many companies follow suit depends in part on whether
consumers and executives believe the Fed will allow inflation to
continue.  One measure of such expectations, the Thomson
Reuters/ University of Michigan  Surveys of Consumers, showed
respondents in April expected prices to rise 4.6 percent over a
year, the same as in March and the highest reading since August
2008.  “The Michigan measure appears to reflect expectations of
food and gasoline price increases to a much larger extent than
is suggested by their share in household expenditures and in
measures of overall inflation such as the consumer price
index,” Topa and colleagues wrote in their April 18 blog. Food
and gasoline account for about one fifth of the CPI.  Richard Curtin, Director of Reuters/University of Michigan
Surveys of Consumers, defended its results.  ‘Alleged Bias’  “Despite the alleged bias, this inflation expectation
series has been repeatedly found to forecast the year ahead
inflation rate with an accuracy on par with professional
economists,” Curtin said in an e-mail.  The University of Michigan’s survey asks about “prices in
general.” In a separate survey, New York Fed-RAND researchers
asked about the outlook for the “rate of inflation.”  Respondents in the New York Fed-RAND survey “tended to
think less about a few salient price changes specific to their
own experiences and more about price changes across a broader
set of items,” Simon Potter, co-head of the New York Fed’s
research and statistics group, said in a March 30 speech.  New York Fed -RAND surveys also show that when households in
February were asked about year-ahead changes for “prices in
general,” the median response was 3.8 percent, up from 2.4
percent in September, a gain of more than a percentage point.  By contrast, the “rate of inflation” question produced a
median expectation of 3.2 percent inflation over the next year
compared with 2.5 percent in September.  Validate Prices  Miller, the Illinois homebuilder, said people in his
community of about 186,000 in Peoria County, many of whom work
in manufacturing, probably won’t increase spending and validate
higher prices.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , for example, which has about 16,000
employees in the Peoria region, reached its corporate goals for
incentive pay in 2010, and qualifying employees received checks
in March. There was no incentive pay in 2009.  Caterpillar employees he knows “are not going out and
spending that money,” Miller said. “When they get that bonus
they are either socking it away for the next time, or they are
paying down debt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomgerg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  