-- 
Federal Reserve's Trade-Weighted Dollar Index Falls to Lowest on Record

-- B y   R o n   H a r u i
-- 
2011-04-26T02:39:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/federal-reserve-s-trade-weighted-dollar-index-falls-to-lowest-on-record.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s trade-
weighted dollar index fell to a record last week on speculation
the central bank will discuss ways to keep yields low.  The U.S. Trade Weighted Major Currency Index, measuring the
dollar’s performance versus seven currencies, dropped for a
sixth week before an industry report that may show U.S. home
prices slid for a fifth month. Fed policy makers, who begin a
two-day meeting today, may consider measures to support the
economy as the end of its $600 billion asset-purchase program
approaches in June.  “The Fed will likely be dovish, with market consensus for
it to continue QE2 until the end of June,” said  Yuji Saito , a
director of the foreign-exchange department at Credit Agricole
Corporate and Investment Bank in  Tokyo . “There also seem to be
worries over a slowing in the U.S. recovery. The bias is for the
dollar to be sold.”  The Major Currency Index, the weighted average of the  U.S.
dollar  versus the currencies of Australia, Canada, Sweden,
Switzerland,  Japan , the U.K. and the euro region, slid to
69.0337 on April 21, the Fed’s data showed. The index weakened
0.9 percent to 69.1984 last week, completing its longest losing
streak since August 2010.  S&P/Case-Shiller’s index of home values in 20 U.S. cities
fell 3.3 percent in February from a year earlier, the biggest
12-month decrease since November 2009, according to the median
forecast of 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The U.S. central bank will likely keep the benchmark
interest rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent through year-
end, according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists. Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is scheduled to speak to reporters
after this week’s policy meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ron Harui in Singapore at   rharui@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  