-- 
Food Costs Seen Reaching a Record High This Year as Inflation Accelerates

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-04-26T16:41:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/food-costs-seen-reaching-record-by-year-end-as-world-inflation-accelerates.html
Global food prices may rise 4.4
percent to a record by the end of the year, driven by demand for
meat, oilseeds and grains used to make ethanol, adding to costs
that mean inflation is accelerating from the U.S. to China.  The  United Nations ’ Food Price Index may climb to 240
points from 229.84 last month, said  William Adams , a  fund
manager  at Zurich-based Resilience AG, which has $22.2 million
of assets. Global corn stockpiles are shrinking the most in
seven years, inventories of nine edible oils will drop to the
lowest since 1974 and U.S. beef stocks will be the smallest
since 1999, the U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates.  “The stockpiles are being severely depleted,” said Adams,
who correctly forecast gains in heating oil and gasoline prices
last year. “Eventually it gets to the consumer. The U.S.
government isn’t subsidizing pork chops like it is ethanol.”  The cost of living in the U.S. rose at its fastest pace
since December 2009 in the 12 months ended in March. Chinese
consumer prices rose last month by the most since 2008. The
People’s Bank of  China  raised borrowing costs four times since
October and the  European Central Bank  increased rates on April 7
for the first time since 2008. World Bank President Robert Zoellick said April 16 that the world is “one shock away” from
a crisis in  food supply  and prices.  Price Report  The UN’s food-price index, which covers 55 commodities,
reached an all-time high of 236.8 points in February, before
dropping by about 3 percent in March. The next report is
scheduled for May 5.  Costlier food contributed to riots across northern Africa
and the Middle East that toppled leaders in Egypt and Tunisia.
It also drove 44 million people into poverty in the past year
and another 10 million may join them should the UN index rise
another 10 percent, the  World Bank  said April 16. Consumers
should get used to paying more because farmers will take years
to expand production enough to meet demand, the  International
Monetary Fund  said in a first-quarter report.  Wheat traded on the Chicago Board of Trade, a global
benchmark, jumped 75 percent in the past 12 months, soybeans
gained 38 percent and corn more than doubled. U.S. wholesale
beef prices are up 13 percent this year and pork costs 22
percent more, USDA data show.  While the gains increase costs for consumers they also mean
U.S. farmers, the world’s biggest agricultural exporters, will
earn a record $94.7 billion this year, the USDA estimates.  North
Dakota , the largest wheat-growing state, has a jobless rate of
3.6 percent, the lowest of any state.  ‘Their Moment’  “There are not a lot of opportunities like this for
farmers,” Adams said. “ Raw materials  are actually at a
premium, so this is their moment.”  Consumers are unlikely to make major cutbacks on meat
purchases even as beef and pork prices jump, USDA’s Chief
Economist  Joe Glauber  said yesterday. Some may opt for cheaper
cuts, Glauber said.  Prices for meat, poultry and fish will jump 5 percent to 6
percent in 2011, led by beef, which may climb 8 percent, and
pork, which could gain 7.5 percent, the USDA said in a report.  U.S. Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said April
11 that higher food and fuel costs will have only a temporary
impact on inflation and the gains do not warrant a reversal of
record monetary stimulus.  The use of some crops is also gaining because of demand for
alternative fuels after oil traded on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  rose 33 percent in the past year. Denatured ethanol,
which contains additives to make it unfit for human consumption,
rose 65 percent on the CBOT over the same period.  Biofuels Factor  Demand for U.S. corn from ethanol producers including
Archer Daniels Midlands Co. will rise 9.5 percent to 5 billion
bushels this year, equal to 40 percent of the national crop,
USDA data show. U.S. lawmakers introduced legislation last month
to scrap a 45-cent-a-gallon tax credit for producers.  “Biofuels, including ethanol, are a factor, but a
relatively minor one” in food costs, Michael Baroni, vice
president of economic policy at Decatur, Illinois-based ADM,
said in an e-mail.  U.S. ethanol makers use 3 percent of global grain supply
and produce 38 million metric tons of distillers grain and
gluten used in  animal feed , according to the Washington-based
 Renewable Fuels Association , which represents the industry.  U.S. corn stockpiles will fall to 675 million bushels by
Aug. 31, from 1.7 billion bushels, the USDA estimates.  “Ethanol producers may be confronted with a squeeze on
corn supplies during the late summer months,” F.O. Licht, a
commodity researcher based in Ratzeburg,  Germany , said in a
report this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  