-- 
Ford Says $2.55 Billion First-Quarter Net May Be Year's Best as Costs Rise

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-04-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/ford-first-quarter-net-rises-22-as-vehicles-win-higher-prices.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest
U.S. automaker, said the $2.55 billion first-quarter profit it
reported yesterday may be the company’s biggest this year as
costs increase.  Ford will face $4 billion in higher expenses for
commodities, new-product development, engineering, manufacturing
and advertising this year. The company also said earnings from
its Ford Credit finance unit will be $1.1 billion lower because
of changes in lease depreciation and credit-loss reserves.  “There are factors that you have to take into account as
you get to the latter part of the year that will possibly result
in our profits being lower than the first quarter,” Chief
Financial Officer  Lewis Booth  said yesterday in an interview.
“There are factors that we think will perhaps make the first
quarter look like a very good quarter.”  Net income rose 22 percent from $2.09 billion a year
earlier as fuel-efficient new models won higher prices,
Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford said yesterday in a statement.
Excluding some items, profit was 62 cents a share, beating the
50-cent average of 14 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales rose 4.7 percent to $33.1 billion.  The net income marks Ford’s most profitable first quarter
since a $17.6 billion net income in 1998 that included a $16
billion gain from the spinoff of the First Associates Capital
Corp. consumer finance unit.  Ford rose 12 cents to $15.66 yesterday in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have declined 6.7 percent
this year.  New Models  Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  has revived the
automaker with a focus on fuel economy and raised U.S. prices
twice this year as the cost of gasoline gained 26 percent. The
prices consumers paid for Ford vehicles rose $900 million
worldwide in the first quarter, the automaker said.  The cost of developing new models and improving the Ford
and Lincoln brand images will add $2 billion to structural costs
this year, Booth said.  “We are going to grow the business,” Booth said. “But
growing the business does bring along with it some costs.”  The cost of commodities used in Ford’s cars and trucks will
rise $2 billion this year, Booth said. Ford had $300 million in
additional commodities expenses in the first quarter and expects
an additional $1.7 billion in costs for the remainder of the
year, he said.  “We’re seeing some signs of steel beginning to stabilize,
the rest of commodities, given the economic activity around the
world, we expect to carry on going up,” Booth said. “Even
steel is stabilizing at a significantly higher level than last
year.”  Quality Performance  Ford said its quality performance in the first quarter was
“mixed,” falling short of a goal to improve. The automaker
said it expects a mixed quality performance for the year,
instead of an improved one.  Some of the quality problems have been in the automaker’s
touch-screen audio, navigation and communications system, known
as MyFordTouch and MyLincolnTouch, Booth said.  “We had a bunch of issues, which were a little
disappointing,” Booth said. “The quality issues were more a
combination of launching a lot of new products and our volumes
going up, rather than necessarily isolated on certain areas.”  Ford still hopes to do well in J.D. Power & Associates’
initial quality survey, where it was the top-ranked mainstream
auto brand last year, Booth said.  U.S. Sales  Ford’s U.S. sales rose 16 percent in the first quarter,
excluding the Volvo Cars unit it sold last year, and it outsold
 General Motors Co. (GM)  last month for the second time in 13 years.
Ford’s U.S. market share in the quarter fell to 16.2 percent
from 16.8 percent as it cut discounts 9.1 percent while GM
raised them 11 percent, according to Autodata Corp. in  Woodcliff
Lake ,  New Jersey .  Most of Ford’s price improvement came in  North America ,
where net prices rose $700 million on a mix of lower incentives
and higher vehicle prices, the automaker said. Ford’s first-
quarter sales of $33.1 billion topped eight analysts’ average
estimate for $30.8 billion.  Mulally said heated leather seats are one of the top
options ordered on the Fiesta subcompact, which traditionally
would have been a car sold without such expensive features. As
fuel prices rise, consumers are moving to smaller models while
still expecting the amenities they had in larger vehicles, he
said.  “This is a tremendous change in the  auto industry ,”
Mulally said. “We believe people are making a lifestyle choice
and we’re going to see that trend by consumers continue.”  Japan  Quake  The automaker boosted North American production by 14
percent to 657,000 cars and trucks. Ford has lost 12,000 to
14,000 vehicles of production in  Asia  this year because of the
earthquake in Japan and may lose more, Booth said. There has
been no lost production in North America and the quake will have
no “material” impact on Ford’s earnings, Booth said.  Pretax profit in the company’s European operations more
than doubled to $293 million.  Ford Credit will distribute about $3 billion to the parent
company this year, up from expected distributions of about $2
billion the company projected in January, Ford said.  “Ford Credit’s leverage is very low at 7-to-1,” Booth
said. “We think we need to improve Ford Credit’s leverage, and
we think the auto company can use the cash.”  Ford’s automotive operations had $21.3 billion in cash on
March 31, up from $20.5 billion on Dec. 31. The company, which
reduced debt by $14.5 billion last year, had automotive debt of
$16.6 billion, down from $19.1 billion on Dec. 31. The automaker
said it reduced automotive debt by $2.5 billion in the first
quarter.  Ford has more debt than rivals because it borrowed $23
billion in late 2006 before credit markets froze, allowing it to
avoid the bailouts and bankruptcies that befell the predecessors
of GM and Chrysler Group LLC in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Naughton  in Dearborn,  Michigan , at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 