-- 
Forest Laboratories’ Solomon May Be Barred From U.S. Programs

-- B y   J e f f r e y   Y o u n g
-- 
2011-04-26T17:50:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/forest-laboratories-solomon-may-be-barred-from-u-s-programs.html
Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX)  Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer Howard Solomon, whose company paid
$313 million to settle a U.S. fraud case last year, is the
latest pharmaceutical executive facing a ban from doing business
with federal health programs.  Forest and Solomon were notified of the action in an April
12 letter from the  Office of Inspector General  at the Department
of Health and Human Services, the New York-based drugmaker said
in a statement. Former  KV Pharmaceutical Co. (KV/A)  Chief Executive
Officer Marc Hermelin resigned as a director last year after he
became the first drug-company owner or executive barred from
doing business with Medicare, the U.S. health plan for the
elderly and disabled, and Medicaid, the program for the poor.  The exclusions are part of a broader effort to make
executives and owners more accountable for companies’ actions
and reduce fraud in the U.S. health programs, regulators
announced last year. The  Department of Health  and Human Services
has had the authority to ban company officials since 1996 and
has moved against 28 individuals since then, the agency said in
November.  “It would be completely unwarranted to exclude a senior
executive against whom there has never been any allegation of
wrongdoing whatsoever,” William Candee III, a Forest director,
said in the company’s April 13 statement. “We are hopeful that
HHS-OIG will decide that the facts and circumstances as to Mr.
Solomon do not warrant an exercise of its exclusion authority.”  Solomon has 30 days from receipt of the letter to respond
and plans to contest the regulator’s effort to forbid him from
doing business with the health programs, Forest said in its
statement.  Dual Effort  The HHS inspector general’s office issued guidelines last
October about how it planned to use its power to pursue company
executives in fraud cases. Eric Blumberg, deputy chief for
litigation at the  Food and Drug Administration , said at the same
time that regulators also would begin using their legal powers
to exclude executives when companies were convicted of so-called
off-label marketing in which a drug is promoted for an
unauthorized use.  Frank Murdolo, Forest vice president of  investor relations ,
didn’t respond to a voice message requesting an interview. Hugh Burns of the public-relations firm  Sard Verbinnen & Co.  in New
York, which represents the drugmaker, declined to comment.
Donald White, a spokesman for the HHS inspector general’s
office, also declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey Young in  Washington  at 
 jyoung89@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in  New York  at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  