-- 
Ex-Galleon Trader Craig Drimal Pleads Guilty to Fraud, Conspiracy Charges

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-04-26T18:21:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/galleon-insider-trading-defendant-drimal-pleads-guilty-to-securities-fraud.html
Craig Drimal, a former trader at
Galleon Group LLC charged in a federal investigation of insider
trading at the  New York  hedge fund, pleaded guilty to conspiracy
and five counts of securities fraud.  Drimal, 54, said today in federal court in New York that he
and others at Galleon traded on inside information obtained from
lawyers working on transactions involving 3Com Corp. and Axcan
Pharma Inc. in 2007. Drimal said the information was obtained
from Arthur Cutillo and Brien Santarlas, lawyers at Boston-based
Ropes & Gray LLP.  “At the time I did these trades, I believed my conduct was
illegal and wrong, and I deeply regret these actions which
caused so much pain to my family and friends,” Drimal told U.S.
District Judge  Richard Sullivan .  Drimal and his co-defendants faced trial next month for
allegedly taking part in what prosecutors said was one of three
 insider-trading  rings tied to Galleon. The jury in the trial of
the fund’s co-founder,  Raj Rajaratnam , began deliberating
yesterday.  Drimal is the 21st person to plead guilty in overlapping
schemes. The Galleon probe became a nationwide investigation
implicating other  hedge funds , banks, technology companies and
so-called expert-networking consulting firms.  “Mr. Drimal deeply regrets his actions and is focused now
on his future with his wife of 30 years and his three
children,” JaneAnne Murray, a lawyer for Drimal, said in a
phone interview. Drimal, who the U.S. said worked as a trader at
Galleon’s office space in Manhattan, declined to comment.  Sentence Range  Sullivan told Drimal today that he might be sentenced to 70
to 87 months in prison when he is sentenced Sept. 9 and be fined
as much as $5 million. Drimal faces a statutory maximum of 105
years in prison, Sullivan said. Drimal doesn’t have a
cooperation agreement with the U.S., the judge said.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Andrew Fish told Sullivan that
Drimal told another person the information he traded on came
“from an attorney who had been paid.” Drimal executed about
$6.4 million in trades in Axcan and gave information to another
defendant who executed about $700,000 in trades, Fish said.  Drimal said today he traded in his own account while
working out of Galleon’s offices based on tips from Cutillo and
Santarlas during a period in 2007.  “I had been told that the information had been provided by
attorneys who had been working on the deals in question,”
Drimal said.  Five Trades  Drimal said he executed at least five different trades on
this information from Aug. 7, 2007, through Nov. 26, 2007.  Last week, one of Drimal’s co-defendants, Jason Goldfarb a
 Brooklyn , New York, lawyer, admitted to taking part in the same
alleged insider-trading scheme. Goldfarb said he was the
intermediary between Cutillo, his college roommate and the
traders at Galleon. He pleaded guilty April 21 to conspiracy and
securities fraud before Sullivan.  Drimal was handed a setback on April 20 when he lost a bid
to suppress phone conversations secretly recorded by the  Federal
Bureau of Investigation .  Sullivan ruled the recordings could be used at upcoming
trial, notwithstanding the inclusion of talks between Drimal and
his wife including a “deeply personal and intimate discussion
about their marriage.”  No ‘Blanket Suppression’  “The fact that several of the more than 1,000 intercepted
calls were not properly minimized does not automatically entitle
Drimal to blanket suppression of the wiretap,” the judge wrote.
Agents are supposed to “minimize” wiretaps by not recording
irrelevant personal parts of conversations.  Drimal was accused in a new indictment filed April 7 of
conspiracy and five counts of  securities fraud . He pleaded
guilty today to all six charges.  The U.S. said he and his co-defendants, including ex-
Galleon trader  Zvi Goffer , paid tens of thousands of dollars to
Cutillo and Santarlas, the Ropes & Gray lawyers, for information
about transactions their firm was working on.  Goffer and three other accused traders -- his brother
Emanuel Goffer, Michael Kimelman and Drimal -- pleaded not
guilty April 19 to new federal charges.  Goffer’s trades on the tips resulted in profits of about $1
million, and he gave Goldfarb $97,500 for the information, to be
distributed among the three men, prosecutors.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 