-- 
Geithner Says U.S. Needs ‘Credible Strategy’ for Reducing Budget Deficits

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-04-26T13:10:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/geithner-says-u-s-needs-a-credible-strategy-to-cut-its-budget-deficit.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the U.S. needs a “credible strategy” to reduce
its budget deficits over time, without moving too quickly and
choking off economic recovery.  “You have to commit to bring the budget deficit down to a
level that will put our overall debt burden on a declining path
as a share of the economy,” Geithner said today in remarks at
the Council on Foreign Relations in  New York . The Obama
administration wants to move onto that path by about 2015, he
said.  The “biggest mistake” that countries have made coming out
of a crisis is to shift too quickly rather than phasing in
budget cuts over time, Geithner said.  President Barack Obama has offered the outlines of a plan
to reduce the debt by $4 trillion over 12 years through a
combination of spending cuts and tax increases. House Budget
Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican, has
proposed cutting spending by $6 trillion over a decade in part
by privatizing Medicare and capping Medicaid spending.
Republicans reject Obama’s push for tax increases on the
wealthiest Americans.  Geithner also said  oil prices  have become an obstacle to
growth for the  U.S. economy , which is otherwise set to
accelerate.  “We started the year with a little less momentum,” Geithner
said. “We’ve got some new headwinds.”  Growth of between 3 percent and 4 percent over the next two
years is a “reasonable expectation,” he said. While unemployment
remains elevated, “the economy is definitely healing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Washington at  rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  