-- 
Geithner Says U.S. Will Never Weaken Dollar to Gain an Advantage in Trade

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-04-26T15:32:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/geithner-says-u-s-will-never-weaken-dollar-to-gain-an-advantage-in-trade.html
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner today reaffirmed the U.S. commitment to a “strong
dollar” and said the country won’t weaken the currency to gain
an advantage over its trading partners.  “Our policy has been and will always be, as long as at
least I’m in this job, that a strong dollar is in our interest
as a country,” Geithner said in remarks at the  Council on
Foreign Relations  in  New York . “We will never embrace a
strategy of trying to weaken our currency to try to gain
economic advantage.”  Geithner’s comments, in response to a question about the
dollar’s recent decline, show his efforts to reassure investors
that the U.S. will restore long-term economic growth and
stability. The Treasury chief said the U.S. must earn investor
confidence “over time” and said there’s “fundamental” trust
in the U.S. ability to cope.  The dollar dropped for a sixth day against the euro,
matching the longest losing streak since May 2009, on
speculation the Federal Reserve will consider measures to keep
yields low to support the U.S. economy. The greenback also fell
to almost the lowest level since August 2008 against the
currencies of major U.S. trading partners  Geithner’s comments today reflect an unchanged U.S. policy
stance toward the dollar, said  Edwin Truman , a former  Federal
Reserve  and Treasury official who is now a senior fellow at the
Peterson Institute for International Economics.  ‘Weak Dollar’  “There are people around who think that the only way the
U.S. economy can recover is by having a very weak dollar and
relying exclusively on exports,” Truman said in a telephone
interview.  Geithner was saying that “the United States is not trying
to devalue its way to prosperity,” Truman said. “That’s not in
the interest of the United States or the world, and wouldn’t
work anyhow.”  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said Treasuries “have little
value” because of the growing U.S. debt burden, in a March note
on his company’s website. He said the U.S. will experience
inflation,  currency devaluation  and low-to-negative  interest
rates  after accounting for consumer-price gains if it doesn’t
reform its entitlement programs, he said.  Geithner said today that the U.S. needs a “credible
strategy” to reduce its budget deficits over time, without
moving too quickly and choking off economic recovery.  ‘Declining Path’  “You have to commit to bring the budget deficit down to a
level that will put our overall debt burden on a declining path
as a share of the economy,” he said. The Obama administration
wants to move onto that path by about 2015, he said.  President  Barack Obama  has offered the outlines of a plan
to reduce the debt by $4 trillion over 12 years through a
combination of spending cuts and tax increases. House Budget
Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican, has
proposed cutting spending by $6 trillion over a decade in part
by privatizing Medicare and capping Medicaid spending.  Geithner also said Congress needs to act by June to raise
the debt limit, saying it would be “irresponsible” and
“unacceptable” not to act. “The idea that the  United States 
would take the risk people start to believe we won’t pay our
bills is a ridiculous proposition,” he said.  Debt Ceiling  Congress is facing a vote as early as next month on raising
the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling. The Treasury Department
projects that it will hit the cap on May 16, though it could use
emergency measures to avoid default until about July 8.  The chairman of the Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee
today said it would be “catastrophic” if the U.S. did not
raise the limit. The advisory committee includes representatives
from firms including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Bank of
America Corp.  “Any delay in making an interest or principal payment by
Treasury even for a very short period of time would put the U.S.
Treasury and overall financial markets in uncharted territory,
and could trigger another catastrophic financial crisis,”
Matthew Zames, chairman of the advisory panel, wrote in a letter
to Geithner released in  Washington  today. Zames is a managing
director at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Geithner said today that  oil prices  have become an obstacle
to growth for the  U.S. economy , which is otherwise set to
accelerate.  “We started the year with a little less momentum,”
Geithner said.  “We’ve got some new headwinds, most prominently of course
in oil,” Geithner said. “What’s happening in oil is obviously
potentially very significant. At current levels, on its own, it
won’t put the recovery at risk.”  -- With assistance from Caroline Salas, Allison Bennett and
Anchalee Worrachate in New York. Editors: Kevin Costelloe,
Vince Golle  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  