-- 
Genzyme Sues to Block Zimmer, Anika Treatments for Knee Pain

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-04-26T22:07:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/genzyme-sues-to-block-zimmer-anika-arthritic-knee-treatments.html
Genzyme Corp. (GENZ) , the drugmaker bought
by  Sanofi-Aventis SA (SAN)  this month, sued  Zimmer Holdings Inc. (ZMH)  and
 Anika Therapeutics Inc. (ANIK)  alleging the companies’ treatments for
arthritic knee pain infringe a patent.  Genzyme is seeking to block sales of Anika’s Monovisc drug
as well as a treatment made by Seikagaku Corp. and distributed
by Zimmer called Gel-One, according to two patent-infringement
lawsuits filed today in federal court in Boston. Genzyme, based
in Cambridge, Massachusetts, is also seeking cash compensation.  Genzyme filed the lawsuits the same day it was issued the
patent for a method of treating a knee joint with a single
injection of hyaluronic acid, which the company markets as
Synvisc-One, according to the complaint. Sales of Synvisc-One
and of Synvisc, a three-injection drug, increased 20 percent to
$393 million last year, Genzyme said in its annual report.  Synvisc-One was the only single-injection treatment
approved by U.S. regulators until Gel-One was approved on March
22, according to the complaint against Warsaw, Indiana-based
Zimmer. Tokyo-based Seikagaku was named in the Zimmer lawsuit.  Anika, based in Bedford,  Massachusetts , sells Monovisc in
 Europe , Turkey and  Canada , and is seeking approval to sell it in
the U.S. Anika has “already begun advertising for field sales
representatives,” Genzyme said in that complaint.  Garry Clark, a spokesman for Zimmer said the company
doesn’t comment on pending litigation.  Previous Lawsuits  Genzyme sued Anika last year over two other patents and, in
addition to today’s lawsuit, filed a request to add the new
patent to the existing case. Anika said the two suits make the
same basic allegations.  “Anika intends to continue to vigorously defend the
lawsuits and the Monovisc product franchise,” the company said
in a statement.  Paris-based Sanofi bought Genzyme, the world’s largest
maker of medicines for rare genetic disorders, for at least
$20.1 billion.  Anika dropped $1.03, or 10 percent, to $9.10 at 5:20 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Zimmer rose $1.35,
or 2.2 percent, to $62.79 in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. Sanofi American depositary receipts, two of which
represent one ordinary share, rose 52 cents to $38.89.  The cases are Genzyme Corp. v.  Seikagaku Corp. (4548) , 11cv10704,
and Genzyme Corp. v. Anika Therapeutics Inc., 11cv10705, both
U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  