-- 
Greek Deficit Tops Forecasts as Merkel Aide Says Debt Must Be Restructured

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 
2011-04-26T11:12:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/germany-s-feld-says-greece-can-t-avoid-debt-restructuring-1-.html
Greece ’s budget deficit exceeded
goverment estimates and the euro area’s overall debt reached a
record, narrowing  Europe ’s options for putting an end to the
fiscal crisis.  Greece’s shortfall was 10.5 percent of gross domestic
product in 2010, higher than a 9.4 percent estimate made by the
Greek government in February, official European Union figures
showed today.  Greek bond yields surged, rekindling speculation that a
debt write-off or extension of the country’s repayment timelines
will be the only way out of the fiscal trap.  “I don’t think that Greece will succeed in this
consolidation strategy without any restructuring in the future,
or perhaps also in the near future,” Lars Feld, a member of the
German government’s council of economic advisers, told Bloomberg
Television’s Nicole Itano in  Frankfurt . “Greece should
restructure sooner than later.”  Two-year Greek yields rose as much as 64 basis points to
23.65 percent, before slipping back to 23.41 percent as of 11:13
a.m. in  London . Ten-year yields reached 15.26 percent.
 Portugal ’s two-year note yields touched 11.62 percent, before
easing to 11.53 percent. All of the yields reached records.  Default Risk  The cost of insuring debt sold by Greece and Portugal rose
to records, according to traders of credit-default swaps.
Contracts on Greece jumped 13 basis points from April 21 to
1,345 basis points, signaling a 66 percent chance of default
within five years, according to CMA. Portuguese swaps climbed
six basis points to 666.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s government has
ruled out a restructuring, saying it would devastate domestic
banks and hammer an economy that shrank 4.5 percent last year.  Today’s data brought the debt crisis back to where it
started. Greece last year obtained a 110 billion-euro lifeline
from European governments and the  International Monetary Fund .
Ireland followed with a 67.5 billion-euro package and Portugal
is now negotiating for 80 billion euros in aid.  A buildup of debt is making it harder for wealthier
countries to aid the fiscally weaker states along Europe’s
periphery. Debt rose in all 16 countries using the euro last
year to 85.1 percent of GDP from 79.3 percent in 2009, today’s
Eurostat report showed.  European Debt  Aggregate euro-area debt moved closer to the  90 percent
level  that economists  Kenneth Rogoff  and  Carmen Reinhart  say can
weigh on long-term growth prospects.  A political backlash is already under way in AAA rated
countries such as  Finland , where an anti-euro party is set to
enter government after finishing third in elections this month.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s poll ratings have also
suffered as the bill for bailing out deficit-hit states mounts.  Greece’s debt ballooned to 142.8 percent of GDP, the
highest in the euro’s 12-year history, the EU figures showed.
Ireland’s debt surged the most, by 30.6 percentage points to
96.2 percent of GDP.  Greek bond yields have soared since April 14, when German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  was quoted as saying Greece
may need to restructure its debt, breaking with the official
stance of European governments and the  European Central Bank .  A debt restructuring by a euro country risks triggering a
banking crisis that in a “worst case” scenario could do more
damage than the failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., ECB
Chief Economist  Juergen Stark   told  ZDF German television on
April 23.  Recession Impact  Greece said the worse-than-expected recession was
responsible for the wider deficit, while noting that it cut the
deficit by 4.9 percentage points, more than any other euro
country.  A deterioration of  tax revenue  and worsening finances at
local governments, social-security funds and public hospitals
also contributed to the wider deficit, the Greek Finance
Ministry said in an e-mailed statement.  Feld, the German government adviser, said there is a
consensus among most economists that a Greek restructuring is
inevitable.  Germany  “is currently not willing to support a Greek
restructuring and when you look at the ECB and also the German
representatives in the ECB, they’re not supporting a Greek
restructuring as well,” Feld said.  Under pressure from Germany to tighten the screws on
budgets, euro-area countries pared their overall deficit to 6.0
percent of GDP in 2010 from 6.3 percent.  Germany wasn’t among the 12 countries with lower deficits.
The German shortfall widened to 3.3 percent from 3.0 percent,
edging back over the limit for euro users.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  