-- 
U.K. Gilts Rise as Economic Reports Seen Encouraging Bank of England Doves

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-04-26T15:27:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/gilts-advance-as-investors-pare-u-k-rate-bets-on-weak-data.html
U.K. government bonds advanced and
the pound dropped versus the euro as investors pared bets on
monetary tightening from the Bank of  England  after data showed
British factory orders deteriorated.  The yield on two-year notes fell to the least in four
months as the Confederation of British Industry’s orders gauge
slumped to minus 11 in April from plus 5 a month before,
compared with the median estimate for a decline to plus 2 from
nine economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. A report tomorrow is
forecast to show Britain’s economy resumed growth in the first
quarter, with gross domestic product expanding by 0.5 percent.  “There’ll be more support for gilts if we get a weak GDP
figure, because then the prospect of an early rate hike is a lot
lower,” said  Elisabeth Afseth , an analyst at Evolution
Securities Ltd. in  London . “There’s been a lot of talk about
the negative figure in the fourth quarter and whether that was a
blip, or a real sign of a slowdown.”  The 10-year gilt yield fell four basis points to 3.48
percent as of 4:16 p.m. in London. The 3.75 percent security due
September 2020 gained 0.345, or 3.45 pounds per 1,000-pound
($1,646) face amount, to 102.11. Two-year note yields were four
basis points lower at 1.09 percent, the least since Dec. 13.  The pound slid 0.6 percent against the euro to 88.89 pence.
Versus the dollar, sterling fell 0.3 percent to $1.6453. It has
dropped 1.1 percent this month against a basket of 10 developed-
market currencies, making it the third-worst performer after the
Japanese yen and  U.S. dollar .  Short-Sterling Futures  The pound may slide if first-quarter growth is weaker than
expected, according to Jane Foley, a London-based senior
currency strategist at Rabobank International. “Further
weakness” could push the pound toward 90.20 pence per euro, she
wrote in an e-mailed report today.  Short-sterling futures rose as traders pared bets the U.K.
central bank will boost borrowing costs. The implied yield on
the contract expiring in December slipped by as much as four
basis points. The yield has dropped 33 basis points this month.  The  Bank of England  left its key interest rate unchanged at
a record 0.5 percent for a 26th month on April 7 as officials
voiced concerns that recent data had “probably been to the
downside.”  Policy maker  Andrew Sentance , who has voted to increase
 interest rates  every month since June, warned global growth,
higher  oil prices  and a weak pound may keep inflation above the
bank’s target “for some time” and undermine the Monetary
Policy Committee’s credibility. He spoke at an event in
Manchester, England, today.  Gilts have earned investors 1.5 percent since the end of
March, compared with a 0.8 percent return on U.S. Treasuries and
0.5 percent on German bonds, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 