-- 
GM’s Volt, Nissan’s Leaf Battery-Powered Cars Receive Top Safety Grades

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-04-26T00:34:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/gm-s-volt-nissan-s-leaf-battery-powered-cars-receive-top-safety-grades.html
General Motors Co. (GM) ’s plug-in Volt
and Nissan Motor Co.’s battery-powered Leaf, the first mass-
market rechargeable autos available in the U.S., earned top
safety ratings from an insurance industry-backed group.  The two models were evaluated as “good” for the level of
safety provided in tests of front, side, rear and rollover
crashes, the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety said today
in a statement. That rating is the highest awarded by the
Arlington, Virginia-based group.  “What powers the wheels is different, but the level of
safety for the Volt and Leaf is as high as any of our other top
crash-test performers,” said Joe Nolan, the group’s chief
administrative officer.  U.S. pressure to boost fuel economy, rising gasoline prices
and concern that emissions of carbon dioxide and gases are
linked to global warming have spurred carmakers to ready a new
generation of autos powered mainly by electricity. The Obama
administration, aiming to have 1 million plug-ins on roads by
2015, has issued billions of dollars in loans and grants to
build the cars and batteries powering them.  The Volt, a plug-in hybrid that goes about 35 miles (56
kilometers) on lithium-ion battery power before a gas engine
kicks in, and the Leaf, which goes about 73 miles on battery
power alone, went on sale in December. They’ll be joined this
year and next by rechargeable models from Toyota City, Japan-
based   Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , Dearborn, Michigan-based  Ford Motor
Co. (F) , Tokyo-based Honda Motor Co. and Tokyo-based  Mitsubishi
Motors Corp. (7211)   The  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration , the
U.S. agency that sets crashworthiness standards for the
industry, hasn’t yet posted the evaluation of the Volt and Leaf
in government tests to its  Safercar.gov website .  GM sold 1,536 Volts from December 2010 through March, while
Nissan sold 471 Leafs, according to monthly sales reports from
the companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  