-- 
Goldman Group’s Lehman Distribution Plan Unfair to Retirees, Calpers Says

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-04-26T16:12:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/goldman-s-lehman-plan-isn-t-fair-to-retirees-calpers-says-1-.html
A payment plan sponsored by
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Morgan Stanley and other creditors of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. treats pension funds and retirees
who own Lehman bonds “unfairly,” the  California Public
Employees’ Retirement System  said.  The creditors, which also include Credit Suisse Group AG,
filed a liquidation plan for the defunct company yesterday that
would give their group more money than two other proposals for
allotting $61 billion among creditors.  “This plan treats members of pension funds, including
retirees who hold LBHI bonds through their pension plans,
unfairly,” Calpers Chief Investment Officer Joseph Dear said in
a  statement . “We’re disappointed that Goldman Sachs and other
big banks are proposing to reward themselves at the expense of
bondholders.”  Calpers, the largest U.S. pension fund, paid 86 cents to
$1.04 on the dollar for $90.1 million of Lehman’s senior bonds
between July 2006 and December 2007, according to a court
filing. It would get 16 cents on the dollar from the group
including Goldman Sachs, the fourth-largest U.S. bank.  Michael Duvally, a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, declined to immediately comment. Lehman spokeswoman
 Kimberly Macleod  declined to comment.  Paulson Plan  Calpers is a member of a rival group with hedge fund
Paulson & Co. The Paulson-Calpers plan, which transfers money to
bondholders from Goldman Sachs and other derivatives creditors
of Lehman, represents “a fair outcome for all stakeholders,”
it said in the statement.  Senior bondholders would get 24.5 cents on the dollar under
the Paulson-Calpers plan, compared with 21.4 cents if Lehman’s
plan prevails.  Rival plans for Lehman are due to be discussed at a June 28
court hearing before U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck in  New
York . The Paulson-Calpers groups wants to reduce inequalities
among creditors, while the Goldman-Morgan Stanley group says
Lehman made a variety of deals with lenders that should be
preserved.  The case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  