-- 
Google ‘Confident’ About Further Growth in China, Executive John Liu Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-27T00:55:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/google-china-executive-liu-says-he-s-confident-about-growth.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , which pulled its
Internet search engine out of  China  last year, said it’s
“confident” of growing in the country under new Chief
Executive Officer  Larry Page .  The company sees more “upside” in China,  John Liu ,
Google’s head of sales in the world’s biggest market for
Internet, said at a conference in Beijing yesterday. Google
founders Page and  Sergey Brin  know China “very well,” he said.  Google is aiming to boost revenue from Chinese customers
in display advertising and export marketing as the Mountain
View, California-based company has failed to keep pace with
Baidu Inc. in China’s search-engine market. Page, who took on
the CEO role April 4 and succeeds Eric Schmidt, is ramping up
spending on hiring and marketing as he faces rising competition
from rivals  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Facebook Inc.  Liu, in charge of local operations since 2009, is
negotiating with the Chinese government about online map
services, and is seeking to increase adoption of Google’s
Android software for phones in the country.  Google last month said the Chinese government is disrupting
its Gmail e-mail service and disguising the blockage as
technical issues on Google’s part. China’s Foreign Ministry
spokeswoman Jiang Yu called that claim “unacceptable.”  That friction followed Google’s decision to shutter its
search-engine service in China last year to avoid complying with
the government’s rules on Web censorship. Since the March 2010
move, Chinese users of  Google search  have been redirected to an
unfiltered site in  Hong Kong .  Censorship Rules  Google in July was able to renew its Internet-service
license in China through 2012, even after shuttering its
Google.cn site in China and redirecting users to a Hong Kong
site. The company had said it was no longer willing to comply
with online censorship rules on topics such as Tiananmen Square
crackdown in 1989 and Tibet independence.  Google accounted for 19.2 percent of China’s search market
by revenue in the first quarter, declining from 19.6 percent
three months earlier, according to research company Analysys
International. Baidu’s market share rose to 75.8 percent from
75.5 percent, according to Analysys.  A March 4 opinion piece in the official People’s Daily, the
mouthpiece of China’s Communist Party, compared Google with the
British East India Company, whose sales of opium in the country
was the root of two 19th-century conflicts.  China’s tax authorities have begun investigating three
local Google affiliates for alleged offenses, the Economic Daily
reported on March 31. Google said that day that it’s in “full
compliance” with Chinese tax law.  -- Mark Lee . With assistance from Edmond Lococo. Editors: Anand Krishnamoorthy, Young-Sam Cho.  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Mark Lee in Hong Kong at +852-2977-6909 or
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  