-- 
Android Accounts for Half of New Smartphone Sales, Nielsen Says

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-04-26T16:50:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/google-s-android-accounts-for-half-of-new-smartphone-sales-nielsen-says.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating
system powered half of all smartphones bought in the U.S. in the
past six months, according to a survey by  Nielsen Inc. , a sign
the software’s market share continues to grow.  Android’s share of new smartphone purchases was double that
for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, at 25 percent, the research firm said
in  a report  today, based on a survey in March about devices
bought during the previous half year.  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) ’s
BlackBerry had 15 percent, Nielsen said.  Android’s share of the smartphone market has grown as more
handset makers including Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. and
Samsung Electronics Co. use the free Google software. Rising
sales will help it to account for half of the total smartphone
market in 2012 as Motorola, Samsung and others push into
emerging markets with customers looking for cheaper alternatives
to the iPhone, Gartner Inc. said this month.  The Nielsen survey in March found that 31 percent of
consumers looking to buy a new smartphone planned to buy an
Android device, up from 26 percent in a 2010 survey. Apple
accounted for 30 percent of planned purchases, down from 33
percent in 2010. RIM’s share dropped to 11 percent on intended
purchases from 13 percent last year.  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , climbed $11.24,
or 2.1 percent, to $536.29 at 12:48 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading. Apple dropped $1.39to $351.62 and RIM rose
85 cents to $54.29.  Developer Interest  The proliferation of applications, or apps, on Android and
Apple devices has helped drive the growth of those two
platforms. The number of phonemakers choosing Android, however,
has led to a fragmentation of the operating system which makes
it harder for developer to build a single app for Android,
 according to a new study .  “Interest in Android has recently plateaued as concerns
around fragmentation and disappointing results from early tablet
sales have caused  developers to pull back from their previous
steadily increasing enthusiasm for Google’s mobile operating
system,” according to the study by Appcelerator Inc. and
Framingham, Massachusetts-based research firm IDC.  The number of developers “very interested” in building for
Android dropped to 85 percent in April from 87 percent in
January, in the survey of more than 2,700 developers. The number
for Apple dropped to 91 percent from about 93 percent, the
survey showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  