-- 
Guantanamo Doctors Ignored Signs of Prisoner Torture, Group Says

-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 
2011-04-26T20:07:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/guantanamo-doctors-ignored-signs-of-prisoner-torture-group-says.html
U.S. military doctors at Guantanamo
Bay ignored signs of torture at the military prison and failed
to investigate physical and psychological injuries they observed
there, according to a study in the medical journal PLoS
Medicine.  An  examination  of medical records of nine inmates at the
U.S. military prison in Cuba revealed clear signs of injuries
consistent with torture as defined by a United Nations  treaty ,
and exceeding interrogation limits the U.S. considered legal,
according to the report.  “Medical doctors and mental health personnel assigned to
the U.S. Department of Defense neglected and/or concealed
medical evidence of intentional harm,” wrote Dr. Vincent
Iacopino, senior medical adviser for Physicians for Human
Rights, and Dr. Stephen Xenakis, a retired U.S. Army Brigadier
General. “These findings reveal new information about the
potential extent of medical complicity in U.S. torture
practices.”  Of the 779 detainees in the War on Terror taken to the
special prison at the U.S. Naval Station at Guantanamo Bay, 600
have been transferred or released and 172 remain. Seven
prisoners have died in custody. Conditions there have been
condemned by the  International Committee of the Red Cross , which
reported allegations that detainees were kicked and beaten,
denied medical care, confined in small boxes, and physically and
psychologically abused.  Medical Evaluations  Specific allegations of torture and ill treatment by the
prisoners studied were “highly consistent” with the medical
evaluations compiled by doctors at Guantanamo, the study said.  They noted that under internationally accepted  guidelines 
for physicians, “the commission and/or concealment of acts of
torture should never be justified by any health professionals,”
inside or outside the military.  “To our knowledge, this case review is the first study to
provide evidence that Guantanamo medical providers aided in
concealing evidence of torture and the complicity of health
professions in torture practices,” Iacopino said in a e-mail.  Lieutenant Colonel Tanya Bradsher, a spokeswoman for the
 Department of Defense , said she couldn’t immediately comment.  Based on the information they studied, the authors wrote
that U.S. policy makers did not act in good faith to ensure that
their enhanced interrogation techniques were “safe, legal,
ethical and effective.” In fact, interrogations included
unauthorized “acts of torture,” the study said.  Failed to Inquire  Doctors and mental health personnel who treated the
detainees at Guantanamo failed to inquire or document causes of
the physical injuries they observed, the report said. Instead,
the health professionals attributed psychological symptoms to
“personality disorders,” and “routine stressors of
confinement.”  “The abuses reported in this case series could not be
practiced without the interrogators and medical monitors being
aware of the severe and prolonged physical and mental pain that
they caused,” the authors wrote.  “The full extent of medical complicity in U.S. torture
practices will not be known until there is a thorough, impartial
investigation including relevant classified information,” they
concluded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter S. Green in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  