-- 
Libya Hurts Mediterranean Refiners, Rewards Russian Links: Energy Markets

-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 
2011-04-27T15:44:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/libyan-conflict-sours-profit-at-mediterranean-oil-refiners-energy-markets.html
The best-quality oil is fetching
the highest premium in more than two years, weighing on profits
at Mediterranean refiners that depend on Libyan crude.  North Sea  Dated Brent,  Europe ’s benchmark low-sulfur grade,
sold for $7.11 a barrel more than Dubai crude, a Middle Eastern
high-sulfur oil, on April 11, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the highest spread since October 2008. Brent’s
premium to Iran Heavy crude has doubled from January’s average.  Nine weeks of civil conflict in  Libya  is hurting supplies
of lower-sulfur “sweet” crude, which is more easily refined into
cleaner-burning fuels, pushing up prices for comparable grades
from the North Sea and  Nigeria . That's helping  Finland ’s  Neste
Oil Oyj (NES1V) ,  Hungary ’s Mol Nryt. which are set up to turn high-sulfur
“sour” crude such as Russian Urals, while hurting Mediterranean
refiners such as  Saras SpA (SRS)  and  Hellenic Petroleum SA (ELPE)  that can’t
easily switch away from low-sulfur grades.  “The ability to process heavy-sour crudes will be a
potentially significant source of competitive advantage for
refiners this summer,” Daniel Ekstein, a London-based oil and
gas analyst at Jefferies International Ltd., said in an April 13
note. “A lot of the Med refineries are configured to run a very
particular crude slate, and it’s not straightforward to change
that configuration.”  Workers Evacuated  Libya accounted for 8.8 percent of global light, low-sulfur
crude supply in 2010, according to JBC Energy GmbH, a Vienna-
based consultant. Oil output from the African OPEC member is
down 75 percent as fighting between rebels and government troops
forced producers such as  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  to evacuate workers.  Prices are rising for low-sulfur grades from Nigeria,
Algeria and  Azerbaijan , as well as those in the North Sea.
Nigerian Qua Iboe’s premium to Brent rose to $4.13 a barrel on
March 30, the most since July 2008. Meanwhile, Russian Urals’
discount to  Brent crude  in northwest Europe widened to $4.30 a
barrel on April 12 from $1.90 discount at the start of the year.  The discount on Urals helps refiners including Neste Oil,
which operates plants in Naantali and Porvoo in Finland and gets
most of its crude from  Russia , according to AlphaValue, a Paris-
based research company.  Neste’s stock gained 13 percent this year, compared with a
5 percent advance in Europe’s Stoxx 600 Oil and Gas Index. The
company, based in Espoo, Finland, gets 70 percent of its crude
from Russia and none from Libya, according to Kaisa Lipponen, a
company spokeswoman.  Soviet Links  “Plants that can handle Russian crude are doing well right
now,” said  Christophe Barret , an oil analyst at Credit Agricole 
CIB in  London . Many refineries in former Eastern bloc countries
such as PKN Orlen SA’s Plock facility were designed to handle 
Russian heavy crude and are still linked by Soviet-era pipelines.  BP Plc (BP/)  can process Urals at its Gelsenkirchen facility in
 Germany , while  Total SA (FP)  uses Russian imports at Leuna, south of
Berlin, where a sulfur-removal unit was completed in 2009.  Mediterranean refiners, being closest to Libya, tend to be
the most reliant on its crude. Saras, which operates the Sarroch
refinery in Sardinia, imports as much as 40 percent of its crude
from Libya, Rafaella Casula, a spokeswoman for the company in
Milan, said in an e-mail yesterday.  Saras has ample flexibility in its operations, allowing it
to use more than 20 types of crude, Casula said. The company
will probably need to find alternatives to Libyan crude from the
second quarter, she said. The Italian company was more reliant
on Libya than  Repsol YPF SA (REP) ,  Spain ’s biggest oil company, which
bought 16 percent of its crude from North Africa in 2009, 
according to its website.  Hellenic’s Oil Supply  Hellenic Petroleum relies on Libya for as much as 12
percent of its supply, John Kostopoulos, chief executive
officer, said in February. Athens-based Hellenic may be
“competitively disadvantaged” by the rising premium for sweet
crude until it finishes a 1.2 billion-euro ($1.8 billion)
upgrade at its Elefsis plant, Jefferies’ Ekstein said.  “Refineries are designed to process a certain percentage
of sweet and sour crudes,”Barret said. “They have to reassess
production if they lose supply, and that can be quite costly.”  Hellenic had to switch to other sources of light-sweet
crude because of lost Libyan supply, a spokesman said from
 Athens , declining to be identified in line with company policy.  OMV AG (OMV) , one of the oil producers forced to curb output in
Libya, is adapting its Burghausen refinery in southern Germany
to use crudes from other countries. Vienna-based OMV ran about
20 percent of its capacity on Libyan oil before the crisis.  Suitable Alternatives  OMV told investors the crisis in Libya will cut earnings
before interest and taxes by an estimated 20 percent, Philipp Chladek, an analyst at Raiffeisen Centrobank AG, said in an
April 20 note. Sven Pusswald, a spokesman for OMV, declined to
comment on profit.  European refiners may find it harder in coming weeks to get
suitable crudes as they return from seasonal maintenance, the
 International Energy Agency  in Paris said in an April 12 report.  “The impact of the lost supplies has so far been muted by
the fact that European spring turnarounds hit a seasonal peak in
March,” the agency said. Refinery maintenance is mostly timed
to allow refiners to maximize production of gasoline in the
European summer and heating oil in winter.  Supply from  Saudi Arabia , the biggest producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, is helping to
offset the loss in Libyan supply, an official from Kuwait
National Petroleum Company said. “The impact is softened with
Saudi Arabia’s production boost to compensate the deficit,”
Bakhit al-Rashidi, deputy managing director, said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  No Substitute  Most Saudi Arabia crude isn’t a direct substitute because it
has more sulfur than Libyan crude. Arab Medium and Arab Extra
Light contains more sulfur than Es Sider, the Libyan benchmark.
Saudi’s Extra Light contains 1.16 percent sulfur, compared with
a 0.44 percent threshold for Libya’s Es Sider, according to
Energy Intelligence Group.  Saudi Arabia developed two new blends with reduced sulfur
content in response to the Libyan shortfall. The blends have
seen a “lukewarm response” from European refiners, Amrita Sen,
an analyst at Barclays Plc, said in an April 14 report.  Putting a lesser quality crude through a refinery’s
processing units can yield inferior fuels.  “Some refiners are set up to produce low-sulfur gasoline
and diesel,” said Jonathan Leitch, a London-based senior
analyst at Wood Mackenzie Consultants Ltd. “If you run heavy
crudes you’ll have problems. It could mean the refiner can’t
meet the market specification.”  Tupras Turkiye Petrol Rafinerileri AS (TUPRS) , the operator of
refineries in  Turkey , is buying more Saudi and Iranian crude for
its plants, making it one of the beneficiaries of the discount
on Middle East grades, Tamas Pletser, an analyst at ING Groep
NV, said by phone. “Tupras is a major buyer of sour crudes, so
this expanding margin is likely to be replicated in the
company’s own margins,” he said.  Tupras gained 24 percent this year on the  Istanbul Stock
Exchange , outperforming a 3 percent gain on the  ISE National 100
Index (XU100) , Turkey’s benchmark index. Tupras officials in Izmit
weren’t available for comment when called yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Graham in Belfast at 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  