-- 
Indonesia Government to Start Sale of 10-Year Dollar Bonds, Investors Say

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-04-26T10:55:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/indonesian-government-plans-to-offer-10-year-dollar-bonds-investors-say.html
Indonesia  plans to start a
benchmark-sized sale of 10-year dollar bonds today or tomorrow,
according to three investors informed of the issuance, who asked
not to be identified before a public announcement.  Bambang Brodjonegoro, the Finance Ministry’s head of fiscal
policy, said in Jakarta today Indonesia may sell global bonds in
the “near future,” without elaborating. Indonesia may sell the
debt at 5.125 percent, according to three other investors that
were informed of the issuance.  Developing-nation debt offerings are off to a record start
after near-zero global  interest rates  and the  Federal Reserve ’s
quantitative easing fueled the biggest investor flows to
emerging-market bonds on record in 2010, based on data from EPFR
Global. Issuance of international debt from emerging markets
climbed 8 percent this year to $256 billion from a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Indonesia had a budget
deficit of 0.6 percent of gross domestic product in 2010.  “There’s a lot of emerging-market, dollar-denominated
funds that will be interested in participating,” said Rajeev de Mello, who helps oversee $454 billion as head of Asian
investment in  Singapore  at Western Asset Management Co., the
Pasadena, California-based fixed-income unit of Legg Mason Inc.  “Indonesia is a country that a lot of people like. The
total debt to GDP is low. There’s not that many Asian dollar-
denominated bonds anymore in the sovereign space” that will be
issued this year, he said.  The yield on Indonesia’s 5.875 percent U.S. currency bond
due March 2020 fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point,
to 4.84 percent as of 5:16 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices
from Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. The yield climbed 25
basis points this year.  Spread Narrows  The last 10-year dollar bonds were sold in January 2010 at
a 228 basis point yield premium over U.S. Treasuries, according
to Bloomberg data. The spread has since narrowed to 169 basis
points. Indonesia sold $2 billion of the debt, and received
orders for 2.3 times the amount on offer. The  Philippines  sold
$1.5 billion of 15-year dollar securities in March.  The dollar debt of Southeast Asia’s largest economy has
returned 7.4 percent over the past year, indexes compiled by
HSBC Holdings Plc show. Indonesia is giving the fourth-best
returns among the 11 Asian nation indexes tracked after the
Philippines,  Thailand  and  China .  Southeast Asia’s largest economy raised almost $3 billion
from global bonds last year, including the $2 billion of dollar
notes and 60 billion yen ($734 million) of samurai debt
denominated in  Japan ’s currency. The amount sold was lower than
the $4 billion in 2009.  Rating Upgrade  The country may issue dollar-denominated Islamic debt in
the second half, Jakarta-based Dahlan Siamat, director of
Islamic finance at the  finance ministry , said in an interview
yesterday.  Standard & Poor’s  boosted Indonesia’s sovereign credit
rating to BB+ this month with a positive outlook, while Moody’s
Investors Service raised its ranking to Ba1 on Jan. 17, citing
the nation’s “economic resilience” and improving debt position.
 Fitch Ratings  assessed Indonesia at BB+. All three ratings
agencies rank the country one level below investment grade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  