-- 
Minmetals Drops Equinox Bid After Being Trumped by Barrick’s $7.68 Billion

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-04-26T20:35:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/minmetals-withdraws-offer-for-equinox-after-being-outbid-by-barrick-gold.html
Minmetals Resources Ltd. (1208) , the
Chinese mining company that offered to take over  Equinox
Minerals Ltd. (EQN) , dropped its proposal after it was trumped by a
C$7.32 billion ($7.69 billion) cash bid from  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)   Minmetals’ withdrawal clears the path for Toronto-based
Barrick to take control of Equinox’s Lumwana mine in  Zambia  and
Saudi Arabia’s biggest copper deposit, in the world’s most
expensive copper mining takeover. Minmetals plunged in  Hong Kong 
trading on concern it missed an opportunity to shore up metal
reserves as China’s demand grows, and Equinox fell in Toronto.  “The price offered by Barrick is above our most optimistic
assessment of value,” Andrew Michelmore, chief executive
officer of Hong Kong-based Minmetals, said today in a statement.
“Competing with Barrick at these prices would, in our view, be
value destructive.”  Minmetals, a copper and alumina producer controlled by
 China ’s largest metals trader, dropped 9.1 percent to HK$5.19 in
Hong Kong, after falling as much as 13 percent. The company,
part of the state-owned China Minmetals Group, said it will
concentrate on other opportunities and developing its own assets
that include the world’s second-biggest zinc mine and projects
in  Australia ,  Laos  and  Canada .  “Minmetals had wanted to diversify its nonferrous metal
businesses by adding copper assets,” said  Helen Lau , a Hong
Kong-based analyst with UOB Kay Hian Ltd. “To become a world-
class mining company, it has to do a lot of acquisitions.”  ‘Prudent Buyers’  Minmetals’ C$6.04 billion offer for Equinox was China’s
largest proposed takeover of a mining company, and the 32
percent premium over the 20-day trading average would have been
the most a Chinese company has paid for a mining deal greater
than $500 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “China will continue to be very prudent buyers of
assets,”  Chris Weston , an institutional dealer at IG Markets in
 Melbourne , said by mobile phone today. “They will be prepared
to pay up for the right company at the right time. They may have
looked at Barrick and said: ‘They want it more. We don’t want to
get into a huge bidding war.’”  Equinox dropped 26 cents, or 3.1 percent, to C$8.11 at 4:10
p.m. in Toronto Stock Exchange trading. Barrick, the world’s
biggest gold company, declined C$1.75, or 3.5 percent, to
C$47.75.  Shares of Perth, Australia-based Equinox rose 11 percent
yesterday on speculation Minmetals would sweeten its C$7-a-share
bid in response to Barrick’s C$8.15-per-share proposal.  Barrick’s Offer  The offer from Barrick values Equinox at 13.5 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
a record level for a copper takeover, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. At C$8.15 a share, Barrick’s bid is 16 percent
more than Minmetals’ offer and 17 percent more than Equinox’s
average share price over the past 20 trading days.  The bid values Equinox’s equity at 28 times net income, the
highest for an acquisition in the industry and topping the 24
times earnings that underpinned Minmetals’ abandoned proposal.  “Equinox is expensive, but nothing is cheap now,” UOB’s
Lau said. “Minmetals may have to wait until resource prices
fall, but it’s unlikely to happen anytime soon.”  Copper for delivery in three months on the London Metal
Exchange traded at a record $10,190 a metric ton, or $4.62 a
pound, on Feb. 15. It will average $9,760 a ton this year and
$10,350 in 2012, according to the median of analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Copper Prices  The metal would have to continue to trade for at least
$3.40 a pound to justify paying C$7.32 billion for Equinox,
 George Topping , a Toronto-based analyst at Stifel Nicolaus &
Co., said yesterday by telephone. He expects copper prices to
fall below that level by 2015 to $2.50 a pound.  The boards of Barrick and Equinox both agreed to the
combination, which still requires approval from two-thirds of
Equinox’s shareholders, according to the statement yesterday.
The takeover is also subject to a C$250 million break fee.  The deal would be the second-largest acquisition by
Barrick, after its $9.93 billion purchase of Placer Dome Inc.
five years ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It’s
proposing to pay 1.39 times Equinox’s enterprise value, compared
with the 1.36 median multiple of 10 comparable deals in the past
four years, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 