-- 
Iran Actively Aiding Syria’s Repression of Protests, U.S. Says

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-04-26T23:36:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/iran-actively-aiding-syria-s-repression-of-protests-u-s-says.html
Iran  is actively supporting the
Syrian government’s attacks on protesters, the U.S. ambassador
to the  United Nations  said after the  Security Council  failed to
agree on a European proposal to condemn the violence.  “We are very conscious of and concerned by the evidence of
active Iranian involvement and support on behalf of the Syrian
government’s repression of its people,” Ambassador  Susan Rice 
said today.  “Instead of listening to his own people,” she said,
President Bashar al-Assad “is disingenuously blaming outsiders
while at the same time seeking Iranian assistance.”  Rice said she didn’t want to go into details about the
evidence backing up her allegations.  “This is an outrageous statement, irresponsible and
provocative,” said Bashar Ja’Afari, Syria’s ambassador to the
UN. “It is nonsense, unfounded and not even worth it to
comment.”  The  Security Council  heard a briefing on the situation from
UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and adjourned without taking
action on a draft statement, circulated yesterday by Britain,
France, Germany and  Portugal , that would condemn the Syrian
government’s actions and call for an international
investigation.  “I condemn, utterly, the continuing violence against
peaceful demonstrators, most particularly the use of tanks and
live fire that have killed and injured hundreds of people,” Ban
told reporters. “There should be an independent, transparent
and effective investigation.”  The Security Council will reconvene tomorrow for further
discussion of the unrest in Syria.  Crackdown Continues  Syrian security forces strafed the streets of the southern
city of Daraa with machine guns today and the government cut off
water supplies as the death toll from yesterday’s crackdown rose
to 25, a witness said. The government said soldiers responded to
an appeal by residents to “stop killing, vandalism and
intimidation by radical terrorists,” the state news agency Sana
said yesterday, citing a military official.  Assad’s decision to end the emergency rule in place for
half a century and his pledges of future political and economic
measures have failed to halt the spread of demonstrations. At
least 400 people have been killed nationwide since protests
began in  Syria  in mid-March, Ammar Qurabi, head of Syria’s
 National Organization for Human Rights , said yesterday.  Ja’Afari rejected Ban’s call for an outside investigation
because, he said, the Assad regime is conducting its own
inquiry.  “We can undertake any investigation by our own selves with
full transparency,” Ja’Afari said. “We have nothing to hide.
We have our national investigation commission that has already
undertaken a full investigation of what happened. We are doing
our homework. We don’t need help from anybody.”  Ja’Afari said all those who have died in the violence --
whether protesters or security forces -- are considered as
“martyrs” and will treated as such, including reparations to
their families.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  