-- 
Iran Discovers Second Virus Aimed at Damaging Government Systems

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-04-26T05:42:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/iran-discovers-second-virus-aimed-at-damaging-government-systems.html
Iran  has detected a second “spy
virus” designed to harm government systems, a senior Iranian
military official said.  Local scientists discovered the computer virus, Gholam-Reza
Jalali, head of an Iranian cyberdefense agency, said on the
organization’s  website . He added that the virus is being
investigated and that Iran needs to counter further such
attacks.  “In the initial stage, the damage is low and it is likely
to be mistaken for some of the executable files of the
governmental institutions,” Jalali said of the virus, which he
called “Stars.” He didn’t specify when Iranian specialists
detected the malicious software or what equipment it targeted.  Last year, Iranian officials said a malware known as
Stuxnet affected some of the country’s computer systems and
several centrifuges used to enrich uranium. They subsequently
said Iran had regained control of its networks and foiled  cyber
attacks by “enemies.”  Iran is in dispute over its nuclear program with the U.S.
and its allies, which say the country may be trying to develop
atomic weapons. Iran rejects the accusation and says the program
is purely civilian.  Symantec Corp., the world’s largest maker of computer
security software, said in a Nov. 12 study that the Stuxnet
virus may have been created to sabotage Iran’s uranium-
enrichment work. Some of Iran’s nuclear activities were met with
delays following the discovery of the virus.  Iran “needs to prepare itself for future virus attacks,”
Jalali said. “It is possible that the future virus turn out to
be more dangerous than the initial ones.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in  Beirut  at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 