-- 
Berlusconi Joins in Airstrikes on Qaddafi to Help Break Impasse Over Libya

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-04-26T19:01:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/italy-joins-nato-libya-air-campaign-to-help-break-impasse-after-nine-weeks.html
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi 
said Italian air-force jets will carry out strikes over Libya as
NATO seeks to break an impasse in the nine-week struggle to oust
Muammar Qaddafi’s regime.  Italian planes will target Libyan military installations,
Berlusconi told reporters in Rome today after meeting with
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy . Italy, once Libya’s colonial
ruler, announced yesterday it will change course and join in
action against pro-regime forces that threaten civilians.  “The decision by our government hasn’t been an easy one,”
Berlusconi said, describing pressure from President Barack Obama, U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  and Sarkozy to join the
mission to “speed up a resolution of the Libyan problem.”
Italy, which already hosts the mission’s command, will fly
sorties “against precise military targets in order to exclude
in any way the possibility of civilian victims.”  Qaddafi’s regime has weathered an uprising for more than
two months, holding onto the capital Tripoli as rebels control
much of the oil-rich east. The government denounced a strike on
a Qaddafi compound in Tripoli as an assassination attempt.  “We are not targeting him specifically,” U.S. Defense
Secretary  Robert Gates  said today at the Pentagon, following
talks with U.K. Defense Secretary  Liam Fox . The North Atlantic
Treaty Organization is hitting Libyan government command and
control centers that are “legitimate targets” in efforts to
stop attacks on civilians in Misrata and elsewhere, he said.  ‘Not About Individuals’  “This is not about individuals. This is not about regime
change. This is about bringing an end to the violence,” Charles
Bouchard, the Canadian air-force general commanding the Libya
operation, told reporters via videolink from his command center
in the southern Italian city of Naples.  Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  repeated his
criticism of the NATO effort in Libya, saying the air campaign
is destroying the nation’s infrastructure and going beyond the
United Nations mandate to protect civilians.  “ Libya ’s oil reserves, by the way, are the biggest in
Africa and its gas reserves are ranked fourth-biggest in
Africa,” Putin told reporters in Copenhagen. “This begs the
question of whether they are the main object of interest for
those operating there today.”  Oil Fluctuates  The conflict in Libya has pushed crude prices to the
highest since September 2008, and they’ve gained more than 30
percent since mid-February. Futures fluctuated today, with oil
for June delivery falling 7 cents to settle at $112.21 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  British Foreign Secretary  William Hague  rejected assertions
by lawmakers that a stalemate had emerged, citing signs of gains
in the besieged port city of Misrata, even as the standoff
between Qaddafi loyalists and rebels between Brega and Ajdabiya
in western Libya has become a “fairly static situation.”  “It has not settled into what one would call a long-term
stalemate,” Hague told the  House of Commons  in  London  today. He
said the overall situation remained “very fluid.”  Libyan state television said NATO jets hit civilian and
military sites in three districts in the Libyan capital as well
as a fiber-optic cable connecting the Qaddafi stronghold of
Sirte with the oil ports of Ras Lanuf and Brega to the east, the
 BBC  reported.  Coalition jets flew 56 “strike” missions to identify and
engage possible targets yesterday, NATO said. Targets included
tanks, rocket launchers and ammunition depots near Tripoli,
Misrata and Sirte.  Moussa Ibrahim, a spokesman for the Libyan government, said
that Qaddafi remains “healthy and well” after the strike on
his compound. Libyan television later showed Qaddafi receiving
local leaders while sitting in a tent, with a television
displaying the date.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  