-- 
Japan’s Power Curbs to Have ‘Minimal’ Impact on Firms, Business Chief Says

-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 
2011-04-26T15:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/japan-s-power-curbs-to-have-minimal-impact-on-firms-business-chief-says.html
Japan ’s electricity curbs aimed at
averting summertime outages will have “very minimal” impact on
businesses, said Yasuchika Hasegawa, head of the Japan
 Association  of Corporate Executives.  Japan’s government has estimated Tokyo and eight nearby
prefectures may have a shortage of 15,000 megawatts of power
should temperatures this summer approach last year’s level.
Companies have been urged to cut power use by as much as a
quarter to conserve supplies after a quake and tsunami crippled
Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant.  Such restrictions may not be needed, Chief Cabinet
Secretary Yukio Edano told reporters today without giving
details. The government may seek a 15 percent cut instead, the
Nikkei newspaper reported on April 21, citing trade ministry
officials it didn’t identify. The smaller reduction would enable
companies to run their businesses as usual, Hasegawa said.  “It’s manageable from our perspective,” said Hasegawa, 64,
who succeeded Ricoh Co. ChairmanMasamitsu Sakurai as the head
of the business lobby group today.  Hasegawa, who is also chief executive officer of Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co.,  Asia ’s largest drugmaker, said he doesn’t
“have any serious concern about the electricity supply.”  Businesses will have time to buy electricity generators and
batteries to help buffer any supply shortfall by the 2012 summer,
Hasegawa said. The March 11 natural disasters won’t deter
Japanese companies from pursuing mergers and acquisitions
overseas, he said.  “The earthquake and tsunami are neutral to the M&A
attempts from the Japanese corporate leaders’ perspective,”
Hasegawa said. “Particularly when the yen is really strong,
like now, it’s a great opportunity to go out there.”  The yen has strengthened 15 percent against the dollar in
the past 12 months, the fourth best performing major currency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in  Tokyo  at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net .
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  