-- 
Couric to Exit ‘CBS Evening News’ as New Show Talks Continue

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-04-26T20:25:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/katie-couric-to-leave-cbs-evening-news-her-spokesman-says.html
Katie Couric said she is stepping
down as anchor of “CBS Evening News,” her spokesman confirmed,
as the television reporter considers new opportunities.  Couric’s comments to People magazine, which reported her
departure earlier, are accurate, Matthew Hiltzik, her spokesman,
said today. Couric, 54, is expected to make a decision in May
about where she will appear next, he said.  “I have decided to step down,” Couric said to People
magazine. “In making the decision to move on, I know the
Evening News will be in great hands, but I am excited about the
future.”  Where and when a new Couric program will air is still being
discussed, she told People. Her contract with CBS ends June 4.
NBC and ABC are discussing talk shows with Couric that would
start in 2012, an executive with knowledge of the talks told
Bloomberg. ABC, part of  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , made a late run at
Couric, two people said. The anchor and ABC News President Ben Sherwood met at least once for lunch to discuss the move, one
person said. The people, who spoke yesterday, declined to be
named because the matter is private.  “I am looking at a format that will allow me to engage in
more multi-dimensional storytelling,” Couric told People.  “There’s a lot to be proud of during Katie Couric’s time
at Evening News,"  said Kelli Hayward, a CBS News spokeswoman,
in an e-mail.  "CBS News, like Katie herself, is looking forward
to the next chapter.”  Scott Pelley  Scott Pelley, a correspondent on “60 Minutes,” will take
over for Couric as CBS anchor, one of the people said yesterday.
Prior to joining “60 Minutes,” he was  CBS News ’ chief White
House correspondent.  Couric is being advised by  Jeff Zucker , former chief
executive officer of  NBC Universal  and previously her producer
at NBC’s “Today” show. Neither ABC nor NBC would offer her an
evening anchor role, one person said. She would likely work on
specials, including the upcoming presidential elections.  The  New York  Times reported yesterday that CBS would
announce Couric’s departure this week. The newspaper said on
April 5 that NBC had offered her a syndicated talk show.  ’60 Minutes’  CBS could still strike a deal to keep Couric in a role
other than news anchor, said two people with knowledge of the
situation who declined to be named because the matter is
private. That may include reporting for “60 Minutes” and
anchoring a syndicated talk show, according to one person
familiar with the situation. CBS executives are interviewing
candidates to be the executive producer of Pelley’s newscast,
one person said.  Couric, the former “Today” show host, receives $13
million to $15 million a year under a five-year deal with CBS
that started in 2006, people familiar with the matter said at
the time.  Ratings at “CBS Evening News” have declined during
Couric’s tenure and averaged 5.6 million viewers per night
during the past five weeks, according to Nielsen Co. data
provided yesterday by  Brad Adgate , director of research at
Horizon Media Inc. in New York. “NBC Nightly News with Brian
Williams” averaged 8.8 million viewers and ABC’s “World News
with  Diane Sawyer ” averaged 7.9 million.  CBS fell 3 cents to $24.66 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained 30 percent
this year. Disney climbed 40 cents to $42.33 and has climbed 13
percent this year.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , which controls NBC, rose 30 cents to $25.59
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has increased 16.5
percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  