-- 
N.Z. Should Hold Key Rate at 2.5% ‘For Some Time,’ OECD Says

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-04-26T23:54:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/n-z-should-hold-key-rate-at-2-5-for-some-time-oecd-says-1-.html
New Zealand ’s central bank should
leave its benchmark interest rate at a record low “for some
time” to help the economic recovery, the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development said.  “It would be best to hold off any removal of monetary
stimulus for some time,” the Paris-based OECD said in its
 Economic Surveys: New Zealand 2011 . Higher interest rates may be
necessary in 2012 as the rebuilding of earthquake-damaged
Christchurch accelerates, it said.  Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor Alan Bollard cut the
official cash rate by half a percentage point to 2.5 percent
last month to help revive the economy after the magnitude 6.3
temblor that hit the South Island city on Feb. 22, killing more
than 170 people. The central bank will leave the rate unchanged
at a review tomorrow, according to all 17 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  “While the scale and timing of the rebuilding effort
remains highly uncertain, the  Reserve Bank  will have to reverse
that reduction as reconstruction gathers momentum,” the OECD
said. “Further increases are likely to be necessary as resource
constraints take hold.”  By the end of 2012, the benchmark rate may need to be as
high as 5 percent, it said.  Growth Forecast  New Zealand’s economy will grow 0.8 percent this year,
before surging 4.5 percent in 2012 as reconstruction gets under
way, according to OECD forecasts. High commodity prices and
spending associated with the Rugby World Cup finals in the
country in September and October will support the recovery this
year while household consumption is likely to remain subdued.  “The economy now faces the challenge of a combination of
high external deficits and international debt, an overvalued
 exchange rate , a heavy cost of capital and unbalanced growth,”
the OECD said. Saving ratios are less than other nations and
labor productivity has been poor, it said.  Solutions include returning to budget surpluses as soon as
possible, reducing state ownership of commercial enterprises and
changing of policies including the  retirement age , the OECD
said. The government should also consider a public spending
ceiling and an independent fiscal watchdog, it said.  Finance Minister Bill English has forecast the  budget
deficit  will be a record NZ$16 billion ($13 billion) in the year
ending June 30 because of earthquake-related costs and other
one-time events.  The May 19 budget “will take further steps to get the
government’s finances in order, setting a path back to surplus
so we can start repaying debt on behalf of taxpayers and help
increase national savings,” English said in an e-mailed
statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  