-- 
Navistar Sues Its Former Auditor Deloitte & Touche

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-04-27T05:33:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/navistar-sues-ex-auditor-deloitte-for-500-million-over-malpractice-claim.html
(Corrects company name in fifth paragraph of story
published April 26.)  Navistar International Corp. (NAV) , a
maker of medium- and heavy-duty trucks, accused its former
auditor  Deloitte & Touche LLP  of professional malpractice in a
lawsuit seeking $500 million in damages.  Navistar claimed shoddy work by  Deloitte & Touche 
accountants from 2002 to 2005 forced the company to revise its
financial statements, according to a 134-page complaint filed
today in  Illinois  state court in  Chicago .  “Deloitte lied to Navistar and, on information and belief,
to Deloitte’s other audit clients, as to the competency of its
audit and accounting services,” the Warrenville, Illinois-based
truckmaker alleged in its complaint.  Deloitte & Touche, based in New York, functioned as an
auditor, accountant and adviser to Navistar for almost a
century, a relationship that ended in April 2006, according to
the complaint.  Navistar said in April 2006 that its restatements for 2002
through the third quarter of 2005 were related to warranties and
product-development programs at suppliers. It also said it was
replacing Deloitte with KPMG LLP. The restatements were made in
2007.  In its complaint today, the truck maker accused its former
auditor of fraud, fraudulent concealment, breach of contract and
malpractice relating to the advice and auditing services
Deloitte gave Navistar.  Jonathan Gandal, a spokesman for Deloitte, said Navistar’s
claims lack merit and that the firm would vigorously defend
itself.  ‘Utterly False’  “A preliminary review shows it to be an utterly false and
reckless attempt to try to shift responsibility for the
wrongdoing of Navistar’s own management,” Gandal said in an
e-mailed statement. “Several members of Navistar’s past or
present management team were sanctioned by the SEC for the very
matters alleged in the complaint.”  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission last year said
the truck company had resolved an agency investigation into its
accounting practices under which Navistar wasn’t required to
admit or deny the SEC’s findings.  “Navistar had numerous deficiencies throughout its system
of internal controls during the relevant period, including
fifteen material weaknesses during 2005-06 that were
attributable, in part, to the company’s failure to dedicate
sufficient resources to those controls,” according to the SEC.  Chief Executive Officer Daniel Ustian agreed to surrender
to Navistar shares worth $1.3 million, while former Chief
Financial Officer Robert C. Lannert consented to repay
$1.05 million, each sum reflecting monetary bonuses they’d
received during the restatement period, the SEC said. Four other
company executives paid civil penalties without admitting
liability.  Navistar rose $1.45, or 2.1 percent, to $70.17 in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading. Earlier in the day it reached
a 52-week high of $71.49.  The case is Navistar International Corp. v. Deloitte &
Touche LLP, 2011L004269, Cook County, Illinois, Circuit Court,
Law Division (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  