-- 
Nigeria Begins Counting Ballots After Voting in State Governorship Polls

-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u   a n d   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-04-26T17:20:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/nigeria-begins-counting-ballots-after-voting-in-state-governorship-polls.html
Ballot-counting in Nigeria,
 Africa ’s most populous nation, began after today’s elections for
state governors and legislators, the last of this month’s three
key polls.  Results are expected within 48 hours of the 5 p.m. local
time closure of polling stations, according to the West African
nation’s Independent National Electoral Commission.  Voting, which took place in 26 of 36 states in Africa’s top
oil producer, is expected to reduce the number of governors who
are members of incumbent President  Goodluck Jonathan ’s ruling
 People’s Democratic Party  after its parliamentary majority was
cut in April 9 legislative elections. Problems with insufficient
electoral materials that hindered earlier polls didn’t recur
today, said Solomon Soyebi, a spokesman for the commission.  “Since the beginning of the day, we’ve not had any report
anywhere in the country where there was shortage of personnel or
materials,” Soyebi told reporters in Abuja, the capital.  At least 600 people were killed across the north in
violence that followed Jonathan’s victory, the Kaduna-based
 Civil Rights Congress  said yesterday. The violence prompted vote
delays in Kaduna and Bauchi states until April 28, while the
remaining states will hold theirs when the tenures of the
current governors run out.  Low Turnout  “Voter turnout has been quite low in the northern states
due to fears of violence,” Jibrin Ibrahim, director of the
Abuja-based  Center for Democracy and Development , which is
monitoring the elections, said by phone today. Many voters in
the region also stayed away from the polls out of disappointment
that former military leader  Muhammadu Buhari , a Muslim from the
north, lost the presidential election, he said.  Nigeria, with a population of more than 150 million people,
is roughly split between a mainly Christian south and a north
dominated by Muslims. While Buhari won all 12 northern states,
Jonathan, a Christian, took 23 of 24 central and southern
states.  Under  Nigeria ’s federal system, state governments control a
significant share of national revenue, more than 80 percent of
which comes from oil exports, make their own laws and run
regional administrations.  Maiduguri Blast  There were incidents of ballot-snatching and intimidation
of voters in several states, including Lagos in the southwest,
Rivers in the southeast and Benue in central Nigeria, according
to Reclaim Naija, a monitor group tracking the incidents on its
 website .  A blast went off at a security checkpoint early today in
the northeastern city of Maiduguri without hurting anyone, two
days after multiple explosions in the same city killed three
people and injured 14 others, police said.  Authorities in Nigeria’s north have blamed a group known as
Boko Haram, which draws inspiration from  Afghanistan ’s Taliban
movement, for a spate of bomb attacks and killings targeting
government officials and security forces since last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net ;
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 