-- 
Nigerians Vote in State Governorship Elections as Ethnic Tensions Mount

-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u   a n d   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-04-26T14:10:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/nigerians-vote-in-state-governorship-elections-as-ethnic-tensions-mount.html
Nigerians are voting for state
governors and legislators after hundreds of people died in riots
across the mainly Muslim north triggered by  Goodluck Jonathan ’s
victory in the April 16 presidential election.  Voting, which is taking place in 26 of 36 states in
 Africa ’s top oil producer, is expected to reduce the number of
governors who are members of Jonathan’s ruling  People’s
Democratic Party  after its parliamentary majority declined in
April 9 legislative elections. The violence prompted vote delays
in Kaduna and Bauchi states until April 28, while the remaining
states will hold theirs when the tenures of the current
governors run out.  “Voter turnout has been quite low in the northern states
due to fears of violence,” Jibrin Ibrahim, director of the
Abuja-based  Center for Democracy and Development , which is
monitoring the elections, said by phone today. Many voters in
region are staying away from the polls out of disappointment
that their favorite candidate, former military leader  Muhammadu Buhari , lost the presidential election, he said.  At least 600 people were killed across the north in
violence that followed Jonathan’s victory, the Kaduna-based
 Civil Rights Congress  said yesterday. Nigeria, Africa’s most
populous country, with more than 150 million people, is roughly
split between a mainly Christian south and a north dominated by
Muslims. While Buhari won all 12 northern states, Jonathan, a
Christian, took 23 of 24 central and southern states.  State Power  Under Nigeria’s federal system, state governments control a
significant share of national revenue, more than 80 percent of
which comes from oil exports, make their own laws and run
regional administrations.  There were incidents of ballot-snatching and intimidation
of voters in several states, including Lagos in the southwest,
Rivers in the southeast and Benue in central  Nigeria , according
to Reclaim Naija, a monitor group tracking the incidents on its
 website .  A blast went off at a security checkpoint early today in
the northeastern city of Maiduguri without hurting anyone, two
days after multiple blasts in the same city killed three people
and injured 14 others, police said.  Authorities in Nigeria’s north have blamed a group known as
Boko Haram, which draws inspiration from  Afghanistan ’s Taliban
movement, for a spate of bomb attacks and killings targeting
government officials and security forces since last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net ;
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 