-- 
NRC Inspects FirstEnergy Ohio Plant After Radiation Report

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-04-26T22:20:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/nrc-inspects-firstenergy-ohio-plant-after-radiation-report-1-.html
The U.S.  Nuclear Regulatory
Commission  is inspecting a reactor at a  FirstEnergy Corp. (FE)  power
plant in northeast Ohio after “higher-than-expected” radiation
was reported last week, the agency said.  Workers at the Perry nuclear plant “identified an increase
in radiation levels” on April 22 while the reactor was shut for
refueling, the NRC said today in an e-mailed statement. They
stopped work immediately and “there has been no impact to
workers at the plant or members of the public,” the NRC said.  The regulator began the inspection at Perry, about 35 miles
northeast of  Cleveland , while conducting a 90-day safety review
of all U.S. reactors. The examination was prompted by a partial
meltdown at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant
in  Japan , which was damaged by a March 11 earthquake and
tsunami.  The four workers in the  Ohio  incident were contractors who
failed to use “proper methods” while removing a piece of
equipment from underneath the reactor vessel, Todd Schneider, a
spokesman for the power plant, said in an interview. The
radiation didn’t escape the reactor  containment building  where
the contractors were working, Schneider said.  While the radiation level was unexpectedly high, it was
“well within the regulatory limits,” Schneider said. One of
the contractors received a dose of 98 millirems, or the
equivalent of “a couple of x-rays,” compared with the NRC’s
limit of 5,000 millirems a year, he said.  The Akron, Ohio-based company is conducting its own
investigation into the incident alongside the NRC’s inspection,
Schneider said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  