-- 
Nuggets Avoid NBA Sweep Against Thunder; Spurs Lose, Trail Grizzlies 3-1

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-04-26T06:06:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/nuggets-avoid-nba-sweep-against-thunder-spurs-lose-trail-grizzlies-3-1.html
The  Denver Nuggets  defeated the
Oklahoma City Thunder to avoid being swept out of the National
Basketball Association playoffs. The top-seeded  San Antonio
Spurs  moved to the verge of elimination with a third loss to the
 Memphis  Grizzlies.  The Nuggets beat the Thunder 104-101 last night at the
Pepsi Center in Denver and now trail three games to one in their
best-of-seven series. Denver is the third team to avoid a series
sweep when trailing 3-0 this postseason, joining the  Indiana
Pacers  against Chicago and the Philadelphia 76ers against Miami.  “This is big, now we just want to keep building on it,”
said Ty Lawson, who scored 27 points to lead the Nuggets.  The  Boston Celtics  are the only NBA team to complete a
four-game sweep in the first round of the playoffs this year,
defeating the  New York Knicks  in all their games.  The Spurs, who had the NBA’s best record during the regular
season and are the top seed in the Western Conference, were
routed 104-86 in Memphis. San Antonio trails 3-1 in the series
and could join the 2006-07  Dallas Mavericks  as the only No. 1
seeds to be eliminated by an eighth seed since the NBA’s opening
round expanded to a best-of-seven format in 2003.  The Mavericks defeated the  Portland  Trail Blazers 93-82 in
yesterday’s other game to take a 3-2 lead in their Western
Conference playoff series.  Dirk Nowitzki scored 25 points to lead the third-seeded
Mavericks, who head to Portland for Game 6 on April 28. The home
team has won all five games in the series so far.  Lakers-Hornets  The defending champion Los Angeles Lakers host the New
Orleans Hornets in the last of today’s three playoff games.
Their Western Conference series is tied 2-2.  In the East, the top-seeded  Chicago  Bulls host the Pacers
up three games to one, while the Atlanta Hawks are in Orlando
with a 3-1 series lead.  The Nuggets used an 11-0 scoring run spanning the third and
fourth quarters last night to erase a 69-67 deficit and take the
lead for good against the Thunder.  Danilo Gallinari added 18 points for Denver, which built a
10-point lead and then withstood a late rally by the Thunder.  Kevin Durant  scored 31 points to lead Oklahoma City and
Russell Westbrook chipped in with 30, although he missed two 3-
pointers in the final 29 seconds that could have tied or put the
Thunder ahead.  The Spurs are in jeopardy of failing to get past the first
round for the second time in 11 years.  ‘One More Time’  The Grizzlies used a 14-0 third-quarter scoring run to pull
away from  San Antonio , which won NBA championships in 2003, 2005
and 2007. Mike Conley had 15 points for Memphis, which had nine
players score at least eight points.  “We’re a team that doesn’t get a lot of attention because
of the market, but we’ve been playing great basketball,”
Conley, who added seven assists, said in a televised interview.
“We’re able to beat good teams like San Antonio and we just
have to do it one more time.”  Memphis, which hadn’t won a playoff game before this
postseason, will look to close out the series with a Game 5 win
in San Antonio tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  