-- 
Oaktree Said to Add Banks for Stock Spirits IPO as Buyers Balk at Price

-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 
2011-04-26T11:16:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/oaktree-said-to-add-banks-for-stock-spirits-ipo-as-buyers-balk.html
Oaktree Capital Management LLC has
hired UniCredit SpA and Nomura Holdings Inc. to help manage an
initial public offering of its Stock Spirits Group as potential
bidders for the business balk at the asking price, according to
two people familiar with the matter.  Oaktree has added the banks alongside global coordinator
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , said the people, who declined to be
named because the information is private.  Diageo Plc (DGE)  and Bain
Capital LLC, which teamed up to bid for Stock Spirits, are close
to pulling out because they disagree on the asking price of more
than 700 million euros ($1 billion), said another person.  Oaktree may seek to raise about 200 million euros selling a
stake in  Poland ’s biggest vodka maker through the IPO, two
people with knowledge of the matter said in December. The
private equity firm said April 1 that it was reviewing
“strategic options” for Stock Spirits. Diageo and Bain are the
only remaining bidders, according to the people.  Officials at Boston-based  Bain Capital , Los Angeles-based
Oaktree, London-based Diageo and Stock Spirits couldn’t
immediately be reached to comment.  Stock Spirits reported in April that full-year sales and
profit gained and forecast that market conditions will “improve
slightly” in 2011. Earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization rose 17 percent to 68.2 million
euros in 2010. Oaktree, which is led by co-founder Howard Marks,
acquired Stock Spirits in 2007, according to the drinkmaker’s
website. The price wasn’t disclosed.  Diageo, which makes Smirnoff vodka, made its largest
purchase in more than a decade in February when it agreed to buy
Mey Icki,  Turkey ’s No. 1 maker of raki, for about 3.3 billion
Turkish lira ($2.2 billion). Chief Financial Officer Deirdre Mahlan said that Diageo aims to make purchases in markets where
growth is fastest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zijing Wu in  London  at   zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeff St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net . 