-- 
Obama Urges End to ‘Unwarranted’ Oil, Natural Gas Tax Breaks

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-04-26T23:17:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/obama-urges-end-unwarranted-oil-natural-gas-tax-breaks-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  urged
congressional leaders to act quickly on his proposals to
eliminate “unwarranted” tax breaks for the oil and gas
industry and use the savings to fund clean-energy programs.  His request to Democratic and Republican leaders of
Congress came after House Speaker  John Boehner  expressed
“openness to eliminating these tax subsidies,” according to a
letter released today by the White House.  Obama said there is “no silver bullet” to stop rising
gasoline prices that are putting pressure on consumers and
threatening to hinder the recovery. Instead, the U.S. should act
to buffer Americans from higher prices in the long term by
investing in alternative energy, he said.  “One of those steps is to eliminate unwarranted tax breaks
to the oil and gas industry and invest that revenue into clean
energy to reduce our dependence on foreign oil,” Obama wrote in
a letter to Boehner, House Democratic leader  Nancy Pelosi  of
 California , Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of  Nevada  and
Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky.  Energy prices, particularly for gasoline, are emerging as a
political issue as Obama is preparing for his 2012 re-election
campaign. Oil for June delivery fell 52 cents to $111.76 a
barrel at 1:49 p.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices
have gained about 33 percent in the past year. The average
retail price for a gallon of gasoline is $3.869, compared with
$2.854 a year ago, according to the AAA’s daily survey.  Obama Television Interview  The president continued to press the case in an interview
with a Detroit television station, one of four he conducted
today with local broadcasters. It “makes no sense” for  oil
companies  to continue to get the tax breaks while gas prices are
so high and the companies are enjoying enormous profits, he said
on  WXYZ .  “This is obviously something that’s affecting everybody,”
he said. “We’ve got to make sure that we take those $4 billion
and we reinvest in things like alternative energy vehicles.”  Obama said his administration is committed to keeping U.S.
production “strong.” He told WXYZ that the U.S. is talking
with major oil producers such as  Saudi Arabia  to push them on
producing more by making clear that a  U.S. economy  hobbled by
high  oil prices  isn’t in their interest.  Boehner’s Remarks  Boehner, an Ohio Republican, told ABC News in an interview
broadcast yesterday that subsidies for oil and gas companies are
“certainly something that we ought to be looking at.”  “Everybody wants to, to go after the oil companies,”
Boehner said. “And, frankly, they’ve got some part of this to
blame.”  Obama’s fiscal 2012 budget  plan , unveiled Feb. 14, proposes
eliminating oil and gas tax breaks estimated at $46.2 billion
over 10 years. They include $11.2 billion from the so-called
percentage depletion deduction for oil and natural gas wells,
which benefits small producers.  Without giving specifics about what tax breaks he might be
willing to scrutinize, Boehner questioned whether big oil
companies need the oil depletion allowance. He also argued that
Republicans want to open up more exploration and new domestic
production, sending a message to commodity markets that he said
might calm jitters.  Signal to Markets  “I think if we began to allow more permits for oil and gas
production, it would send a signal to the market that America’s
serious about moving toward energy independence,” Boehner said,
according to an  ABC transcript . That “would calm these prices
down quite a bit.”  Obama’s budget proposal also targets a break that lets oil
companies expense production costs such as labor, drilling rig
time and rig maintenance, and reduce their tax liability more
quickly than under regular depreciation rules.  Boehner’s spokesman, Brendan Buck, said today that Obama’s
proposal “would simply raise taxes and increase the price at
the pump.”  McConnell, the Senate’s top Republican, also criticized the
proposal as “counterproductive” and said in a statement that
Obama should instead encourage domestic energy production.  Obama is working to save his proposals for research and
development of alternative and clean energy sources from budget
cuts as Congress and the administration look for ways to trim
budget deficits that are forecast to exceed $1 trillion this
year and next. The proposals were part of Obama’s fiscal 2011
budget and never acted on by Congress.  The president, aiming to reduce the political fallout of
increasing gasoline prices, announced last week that the  Justice
Department  will examine the role of “traders and speculators”
in oil markets and how they may contribute to rising prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  