-- 
Oil Trades Near One-Week Low as Rising Stockpiles Signal Slow Fuel Demand

-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m   a n d   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 
2011-04-27T08:55:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/oil-falls-a-third-day-after-increase-in-u-s-stockpiles-geithner-comments.html
Oil traded near its lowest price in
a week in  New York  amid speculation that rising U.S. inventories
show demand is slowing in the world’s biggest crude consumer.  Futures dropped as much as 0.5 percent after U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  said  oil prices  have become an
obstacle to economic growth. The Energy Department may say today
crude stockpiles in the country climbed even as gasoline
supplies declined, while violence in Syria fanned concern that
Middle East unrest will continue to disrupt supplies.  “There is plenty of supply and enough spare capacity,”
said Gerrit Zambo, an oil trader at  Bayerische Landesbank , by
phone from Munich today. An increase in crude stocks “is of
course one of the fundamental weak signs.”  Crude for June delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
traded at $112.26 a barrel, up 6 cents, at 9:51 a.m. London
time, after falling as much as 50 cents to $111.71 a barrel. The
contract fell yesterday to $112.21, the lowest settlement since
April 20.  Brent crude  for June settlement on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange was up two cents at $124.16 a barrel
after falling 32 cents to $123.82.  Futures have gained 36 percent in the past year. Oil’s
rally has created “new headwinds” against economic growth,
Geithner told the Council on Foreign Relations in New York
yesterday, even as a Conference Board index showed  consumer
confidence  increased more than forecast in April.  Oil Supplies  U.S. crude inventories probably increased last week against
a drop in gasoline supplies, a Bloomberg News survey showed
before the Energy Department report.  Crude stockpiles climbed 1.7 million barrels from 357
million in the week ended April 22, according to the median
estimate of 13 analysts polled. Gasoline stockpiles are expected
to have decreased 1 million barrels from 208 million.  The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  said
yesterday gasoline inventories fell for a 10th week, the longest
losing streak since August 1994. Crude supplies gained the most
in four weeks. The Energy Department will release its Weekly
Petroleum Status Report at 10:30 a.m. today in Washington.  “Consumers are becoming more confident and spending is
starting to grow more robustly but the housing market is still
very weak,” said Ben Westmore, a minerals and energy economist
at National Australia Bank Ltd. in Melbourne. “That’s likely to
be a big headwind to growth ahead, and as a result, a bit of a
headwind to demand for crude.”  Brent has advanced 22 percent since protests against Libyan
leader  Muammar Qaddafi  began Feb. 15, cutting the country’s oil
production and heightening speculation Middle East exports will
be disrupted. The conflict in the North African nation is the
bloodiest in a series of uprisings that has unseated the
presidents of Tunisia and Egypt.  Security forces in  Syria  strafed the streets of the
southern city of Daraa with machine guns and the government cut
off water supplies as the death toll from an April 25 crackdown
rose to 25, a witness said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Graham in London 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  