-- 
Crude Oil Slips for a Second Day on Concern High Prices to Curb Expansion

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-04-26T20:38:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/oil-slips-for-a-second-day-on-concern-high-prices-to-curb-economic-growth.html
Oil slipped for a second day after
the head of  Saudi Arabia ’s national oil company said the kingdom
isn’t comfortable with prices near a 31-month high and on
concern rising futures will slow the economic recovery.  Crude fell 7 cents after Khalid al-Falih, chief executive
officer of Saudi Arabian Oil Co., said the world’s biggest crude
exporter is committed to maintaining 3 million to 4 million
barrels a day of spare capacity to stabilize the market. U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  said today that oil prices
have become an obstacle to economic growth.  “It’s no secret the Saudis don’t want prices higher,
especially with a weaker dollar, because it puts the global
economy into question and threatens Saudi long-term market share
for energy,” said  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group
Inc. in Villanova,  Pennsylvania .  Oil for June delivery settled at $112.21 a barrel on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange . Oil has gained 33 percent in the
past year. Yesterday, futures touched $113.48, the highest
intraday price since Sept. 22, 2008.  Prices declined from the settlement after the  American
Petroleum Institute  reported at 4:30 p.m. that U.S. crude-oil
stockpiles increased 4.91 million barrels to 361 million. June
oil fell 49 cents, or 0.4 percent, to $111.79 a barrel in
electronic trading at 4:32 p.m.  Brent crude  for June settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange rose 48 cents, or 0.4 percent, to
$124.14 a barrel.  ‘Not Comfortable’  “We are not comfortable with  oil prices  where they are
today,” al-Falih said today in Seoul. “We’re concerned about
the impact it could have on global economic growth.”  With crude priced in dollars, a weaker U.S. currency
reduces the purchasing power of countries such as Saudi Arabia,
whose economies are dependent on oil.  The dollar dropped for a sixth day against the euro,
matching the longest losing streak since May 2009, on
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will consider measures to keep
yields low to support the  U.S. economy . The dollar fell 0.5
percent against the euro to $1.4645 at 3:14 p.m. in New York.  Oil’s price surge has created “new headwinds” against
economic growth, Geithner said today at the Council on Foreign
Relations in  New York . The U.S. is the world’s largest oil-
consuming country. “What’s happening in oil is obviously
potentially very significant,” he said.  Residential real estate prices dropped by the most in more
than a year in February, a sign the U.S. housing market is
struggling to stabilize, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller index
of property values in 20 cities.  ‘Pressured’ by Prices  U.S. Airways Group, the smallest of the U.S. full-fare
carriers, posted a wider loss in the first quarter as jet fuel
prices surged 33 percent, the Tempe, Arizona-based company said
in a statement today. Coca-Cola Co., the world’s largest soft-
drink maker, is “pressured” by rising commodity prices, Chief
Executive Officer  Muhtar Kent  said today on a conference call.  “The fact that the housing market looks pretty lousy is
making people nervous, and there are more and more stories about
the effect of high oil prices on corporate earnings and on
people’s summer vacations,” said  Michael Lynch , president of
Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
 Massachusetts . “There’s mild unease while people wait to see
what the Fed is going to do tomorrow.”  The U.S. Federal Open Market Committee began a two-day
policy meeting today. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is scheduled
to speak to reporters tomorrow in his first press conference
immediately after the policy meeting.  Consumer Confidence  Oil fell as much $1.16 a barrel today. It climbed as much
as 36 cents after a report that U.S.  consumer confidence 
increased more than forecast in April. Oil also rose as gasoline
futures surged to a 33-month high after refineries with almost 5
percent of U.S. fuel-making capacity were knocked offline
because of a power failure late yesterday in  Texas  City, Texas.  The Conference Board’s confidence index rose to 65.4 from a
revised 63.8 reading in March, figures from the New York-based
private research group showed today. The gain signaled the
improving labor market is helping Americans weather rising fuel
costs.  There is “significant volatility” in the market because
it’s the first day European traders and others are back at their
desks after a long weekend for the Easter holiday, said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics, an energy advisory
firm in Austin, Texas. The holiday curbed trading yesterday.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 407,247
contracts as of 3:18 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 346,707
contracts yesterday, 55 percent below the average of the past
three months and the lowest level this year. Open interest was
1.55 million contracts.  Crude inventories in the U.S. probably climbed 1.7 million
barrels last week from 357 million in the period ended April 15,
according to the median estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News before a government report tomorrow. It would be
the seventh increase in eight weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margot Habiby in Dallas at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at   bbanker@bloomberg.net . 