-- 
Hong Kong to Sell Residential Site in First Auction Since November's Curbs

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-04-26T01:20:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/hong-kong-to-sell-residential-site-in-first-auction-since-november-s-curbs.html
Hong Kong’s government will sell a
residential building site tomorrow in its first auction since
imposing the toughest measures yet to curb home prices in
November.  The  site  on Ko Shan Road in the Hung Hom district, close to
the site of the city’s former airport, may fetch HK$1.3 billion
($167 million), according to the median estimate of five
surveyors and analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. The estimates
range from HK$1.07 billion to HK$1.53 billion.  Housing prices in the city, ranked the world’s most
expensive place to buy a home by  Savills Plc (SVS) , have gained more
than 65 percent in the past two years on record-low  mortgage
rates  and an influx of buyers from  China . The government in
November increased property transaction taxes and pledged to
boost land supply amid public protest that housing prices are
becoming unaffordable and as the central bank warned about the
risk of a “credit-fueled property bubble.”  “The home market has been quieting down recently and this
will show in the auction,” said Alnwick Chan, Hong Kong-based
executive director at property consultant Knight Frank LLP, who
expects the site to fetch about HK$1.3 billion. “I don’t think
we’ll see a very intense bidding process.”  Home prices rose 0.6 percent in the week ended April 17,
halting a three-week, 1.6 percent-slide since mid-March when
some of the city’s biggest lenders including BOC  Hong Kong 
(Holdings) Ltd. raised mortgage terms based on the Hong Kong
Interbank Offered Rate, according to an index compiled by
Centaline Property Agency Ltd., the island’s biggest closely
held realtor.  More Land Sales  The government will sell a total of nine sites in the
second quarter, generating 2,650 apartments, and is considering
announcing its land sale schedule at the beginning of each
quarter, Financial Secretary John Tsang said earlier this month.  Hong Kong may auction as many as 52 plots of land this
year, Tsang said in his Feb. 23 budget speech. The land could
yield 16,000 units, almost 80 percent more than from land sold
last year.  Most government  land sales  in recent years have been done
through a so-called application system where developers’ offers
to buy the sites trigger the auction. That system was put in
place in 2002 to support falling  home prices  amid the Asian
financial crisis that started in 1997. Government-initiated land
auctions were partially resumed last year.  New Rail Line  The site put up for auction tomorrow has buildable area of
14,262 square meters (153,514 square feet), according to the
 Development Bureau ’s website. It will be the first land sold in
Hung Hom since August, when Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd.,
controlled by Hong Kong’s richest man  Li Ka-shing , paid a
higher-than-estimated HK$9,600 per square foot for a 366,000-
square-foot site.  A plan to extend the city’s underground railway to Hung Hom
in 2015 and a lack of new supply in the area may draw more
developers’ interest, according to Alvin Lam, a director at the
surveying arm of Midland Holdings Ltd., Hong Kong’s biggest
publicly traded realtor.  The government has sold only two residential sites in Hung
Hom and nearby To Kwa Wan area over the last 10 years,
generating about 438 apartments, he said. The per-square-foot
price tomorrow will probably fall short of what  Cheung Kong  paid
in August because of Ko Shan Road’s location, said Lam, who
expects the site to fetch about HK$1.2 billion, or HK$7,800 per
buildable square foot.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  