-- 
More Severe Weather Expected for Mississippi Valley Today

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-04-26T15:40:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/more-severe-weather-expected-across-mississippi-valley-today.html
Another day of severe thunderstorms
and tornadoes is forecast for northeastern  Texas  and throughout
Arkansas, where Governor Mike Beebe declared a state of
emergency after a series of violent storms.  At least seven people were killed by storms in Arkansas
overnight, according to the  Associated Press . The area will
probably get raked again later today, according to the U.S.
 Storm Prediction Center  in Norman,  Oklahoma .  “Dangerous tornado and severe thunderstorm outbreak
expected late this afternoon into tonight,” the storm center
said in a bulletin. “Very large hail and damaging winds will
also be likely.”  In the past three years, thunderstorms have caused a record
$30 billion worth of insured damage, according to the  Insurance
Information Institute  in  New York . Last year, thunderstorms and
tornadoes in the U.S. caused about $13.1 billion in damage,
according to the institute.  Late last week, an EF-4 tornado, the second-strongest on
the Enhanced-Fujita Scale, ripped through an area north of  St.
Louis , breaking windows, tearing off a section of the roof and
injuring people at the city’s Lambert-St. Louis International
Airport, according to the  National Weather Service .  It was the strongest tornado to strike the area in 44
years, according to the weather service.  Storm Reports  The weather service received more than 35 reports of
tornadoes and storm damage from Texas to Indiana yesterday. A
high school was damaged in Pulaski County, Arkansas, and Little
Rock Air Force Base reported buildings were damaged and cars
were flipped by a storm, according to the weather service.  Storms will probably return tomorrow as well, said Paul
Walker, senior meteorologist at commercial forecaster
AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,  Pennsylvania .  In addition to the thunderstorms and tornadoes,  flood
warnings  and advisories cover most of eight states along the
Ohio and Mississippi rivers, according to the weather service.  About 1,000 people living along the Black River near Poplar
Bluff, Missouri, were evacuated because of a damaged levee,
which threatens 500 structures in the town, according to the
weather service. Poplar Bluff is 155 miles south of St. Louis.  Missouri Emergency  Storms across the state prompted Missouri Governor Jay Nixon to declare an emergency.  The Ohio River at Cairo,  Illinois , is forecast to crest
this weekend at 60.5 feet, a foot above its record height, the
agency said.  The  Mississippi River  at Cape Girardeau,  Missouri , has
risen to 42.9 feet and is expected to crest at 44.5 feet this
weekend, while the crest at New Madrid, Missouri, is expected to
tie its record of 48 feet, according to the weather service.  “That area continues to get hit again and again by
persistent rain,” said Walker. “They are approaching record
levels in several places.”  Cape Girardeau received more than a foot of rain in the
past week, he said. Rainfall will probably stop later this week,
only to return over the weekend, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  