-- 
Toyota Says It Has Clear Idea of Japan Parts Availability

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-04-26T20:40:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/toyota-says-it-has-clear-idea-of-when-parts-will-be-available.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  said it has
extensively reviewed operations of suppliers disrupted by
 Japan ’s record earthquake and has a “clear idea” when certain
parts will be available.  “Toyota has been able to analyze the situation at
suppliers,” Atsushi Niimi, executive vice president for global
production and engineering, said in a conference call today.
“We have a clear idea when parts are likely to be procurable.”  The carmaker, which last week estimated it would need until
at least November to return production to pre-quake volumes,
said today that supplies of microchips, rubber materials and
paint additives are the main bottlenecks. Niimi declined to say
how many days of parts inventory Toyota has on hand or to
discuss which new-model releases may be delayed.  Toyota, which may lose its ranking as the world’s largest
carmaker because of reduced output, along with Honda Motor Co.
and Nissan Motor Co. continue to assess the impact of the 9-
magnitude quake and tsunami that struck March 11, curtailing
electric power and parts supplies. Standard and Poor’s yesterday
cut its outlook on Japan’s three biggest automakers and largest
suppliers to negative from stable because of the disaster.  The company typically has about two and half months of
finished vehicle inventory, Niimi said, without elaborating.  Group 1 Automotive Inc. (GPI) , the Houston-based owner of 103
auto dealerships, said it doesn’t expect the production
disruption to alter Toyota’s plans for a revamped Camry, the
top-selling U.S. passenger car.  Positive Margins  “As of last week, we were advised by Toyota that there’s
no delay to the new Camry,” Chief Executive Officer Earl Hesterberg said on a conference call today.  Toyota today declined to discuss the quake’s impact on
earnings before it announces financial results on May 11.  Toyota on April 22 estimated it may lose production of
300,000 autos in Japan and 100,000 at plants abroad through the
end of April because of quake-related shutdowns. The Toyota
City, Japan-based company also said last week it isn’t likely to
meet its goal of building 7.7 million cars and trucks this year.  Hesterberg said he expects “more positive” profit margins
because there had been an oversupply of high-volume models such
as Toyota’s Camry and Corolla and Honda’s Accord and Civic
before the earthquake.  The oversupply “is clearly going to dissipate in the next
couple of months,” he said.  Prius Sold Out  Group 1, which had a small supply of Toyota’s Prius hybrid
before the disruptions because of higher fuel prices, has been
sold out of the model for “several weeks,” Hesterberg said.  The first models to be affected by the production delays
will be compact sport-utility vehicles such as Toyota’s RAV4,
Honda’s CR-V and Nissan’s Juke and Rogue, he said.  Toyota said today it’s recalling about 51,000 model-year
2011 Tundra pickups because of a drive-shaft part that may
break.  The rear drive shaft in an estimated 0.05 percent of the
vehicles may include a component called a slip yoke that could
break due to improper casting during the foundry process, Toyota
said today in a statement.  Toyota’s American depositary receipts, each representing
two ordinary shares, fell 85 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $78.66 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. They’ve
declined 10 percent since March 10, the day before the quake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  