-- 
Parker’s Successor May Kill ‘Golden Goose’ for Some Winemakers

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-04-26T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/parker-s-successor-may-kill-golden-goose-for-some-california-winemakers.html
Influential wine critic  Robert Parker  surprised Napa Valley vintners in February when he handed
over his California reviews to Antonio Galloni, who plans to
shake things up.  “I’m convinced there are a lot of young producers who are
under the radar, and I’m looking to discover them,” Galloni
said in an interview. “I don’t know if people will be
enthusiastic, but I know change is tough.”  No critic has helped elevate California wines more than
Parker, 63. A high rating in his Wine Advocate magazine has
vaulted many Napa producers to prominence in the three decades
he’s been publishing reviews.  But now Parker has passed the baton to Galloni, a former
director at Putman Investments and Deutsche Asset Management.
Galloni has written about Italian wine for the Advocate since
2006, but he isn’t well known among  California  winemakers, who
generate $18.5 billion a year in U.S. retail sales for the
state’s economy.  “We’ve talked about this for years -- what would happen,
God forbid, if Bob got hit by a bus?” said Ursula Hermacinski,
a wine auctioneer who also was estate manager of Napa cult
producer  Screaming Eagle  from 2006 to 2010. “Would the wine
industry come to a complete halt?”  Parker’s Tastes  Galloni, 40, just returned from his first visit to
California since he was named Parker’s replacement. He plans to
expand coverage, looking more closely at regions such as
Mendocino County and the Santa Cruz Mountains. Galloni will also
seek out producers who didn’t submit bottles to Parker.  “Discovering lesser-known wineries is really where the
excitement is,” he said.  Some critics say Parker’s influence has resulted in more
California wines with intense fruit flavors and high alcohol
levels. Producers who made wines for Parker’s palate may suffer
now, said  Alice Feiring , author of “The Battle for Wine and
Love: or How I Saved the World From Parkerization.”  “Even though Bob will deny people make wine to his
profile, it absolutely has happened and has been happening for
the past 15 years,” Feiring said. “They’ve kind of lost the
golden goose in some ways.”  Parker began publishing the  Wine Advocate  in 1978 as an
independent consumers guide; it now has more than 50,000
subscribers. Reviews, which score bottles on a 100-point scale,
are used by producers and retailers to sell wine.  Beloved Brands  “I think all of us are sort of waiting to see what will
happen to the market in general, and those brands he loved,”
said Celia Welch, winemaker at Napa’s  Scarecrow  label.  Her brand quickly sold out its inaugural 2003 vintage, even
before Parker gave it a 98-point rating. The attention generated
from that score helped the second vintage disappear in 16 hours,
she said.  Claude Blankiet, owner of  Blankiet Estate  in Yountville,
which sells cabernet sauvignon and merlot blends to mailing-list
clients, said Parker has been “absolutely essential” to his
success.  Blankiet’s wines, which sell for as much as $200 a
bottle, have gotten scores as high as 97 from Parker.  “I don’t see Galloni coming and making a revolution
here,” Blankiet said.  Jazz Composer  Aaron Pott is the winemaker at Napa’s  Blackbird Vineyards ,
which has received scores from Parker in the high 90s.  “I’m kind of sad to see him go,” Pott said. “You know
what he likes and doesn’t like, and it made things easier for
us.”  Galloni, who grew up in Caracas, was first exposed to
California wines in the early 1990s when he was studying jazz
composition at  Boston ’s  Berklee College of Music . An admirer of
musician Pat Metheny for his artistic breadth and virtuosity,
Galloni also appreciates a diversity of styles in winemaking.  “There isn’t a model of wine I’m looking for, and I think
that might throw some people off,” said Galloni, who holds a
master’s degree in business from  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology ’s  Sloan School of Management .  Tim Mondavi, former winemaker at Robert Mondavi Winery and
Opus One, said wine consumers are better served by a multitude
of voices.  “The California industry will lose a powerful advocate,
but at the same time, I would hope we would not ever replicate
him going forward,” said Mondavi, whose current winery,
 Continuum Estate , was deemed “brilliant” by Parker. “Wine is
too important and too multifaceted to rely on any one person.”  New Competition  Others say Parker’s influence has diminished with the
proliferation of new publications, blogs and younger wine
drinkers.  “The idea of a single global critic holding sway over the
wine world is almost laughable,” said Courtney Cochran, 32, a
 sommelier  and author from  San Francisco . “It sounds archaic and
out of touch with the reality of how information is transmitted
today,”  Parker won’t completely disappear from the U.S. wine scene.
In addition to reviewing French regions such as Bordeaux and the
Rhone Valley, he’ll revisit older vintages of California wine.  “Everyone should be trying to buy up those wines before he
does those reviews,” Hermacinski said. “Prices will rise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 