-- 
Peanut-Butter Price Surge in Store for U.S.: Chart of the Day

-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-04-26T14:30:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/peanut-butter-price-surge-in-store-for-u-s-chart-of-the-day.html
Peanut butter may soon reach its
highest price in more than a quarter century on U.S. supermarket
shelves as manufacturers pass along cost increases, according to
Judy E. Hong, a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the monthly average retail price
of creamy peanut butter since 1984, as compiled by the Commerce
Department. The arrow depicts the 20 percent increase that’s
necessary to offset higher costs for peanuts, sweetener and
plastic jars, cited by Hong in a report two days ago.  Prices would have to rise 10.3 percent, or about half as
much as Goldman projected, to surpass their peak of $2.208 a
pound in April 1991.  Contract prices for peanuts harvested in October have
jumped 40 percent to 50 percent from a year earlier, the report
said, citing unnamed industry participants. Prices  posted  weekly
by the Agriculture Department have surged 74 percent.  J.M. Smucker Co. “has the most to lose” from these
increases, Hong wrote, largely because peanuts are the company’s
third-biggest commodity expense. Smucker suspended production on
eight versions of Jif peanut butter until at least October, the
Omaha World-Herald reported last week. The company declined to
comment to the paper.  Hershey Co. (HSY) , the maker of Reese’s peanut-butter cups, also
may suffer financially because peanuts are the company’s fourth-
biggest raw-material cost, the report said.  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG) ,
which produces Peter Pan peanut butter, and  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) ,
which makes Planters peanuts, will be hurt less in Goldman’s
view because they sell a wider variety of products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  