-- 
Petrobras Drop on Fuel Prices Sinks Brazil’s Sovereign Fund

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-04-26T20:30:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/petrobras-drop-on-fuel-prices-sinks-brazil-s-sovereign-fund.html
Brazil’s refusal to allow higher
gasoline prices is cutting into returns of its sovereign wealth
fund, whose main holdings are shares of state-controlled
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA. (PETR4)   The fund, set up in December 2008 with 14.3 billion reais
($9.1 billion) in capital, lost 7.4 percent from the end of
March through April 20, marking the biggest monthly decline
since October, data from Brazil’s regulator show. Petrobras
voting shares, which account for about 57 percent of the fund’s
assets, fell 9.6 percent in the period, while preferred shares
that make up 23 percent of total assets dropped 7.8 percent.  The government is pressuring Petrobras to keep fuel prices
steady as policy makers try to contain the fastest inflation
since 2008, said Felipe Salto, an analyst at research group
Tendencias Consultoria Integrada in Sao Paulo. The company
hasn’t changed gasoline prices since mid-2009, cutting into
profits even as crude oil climbed 61 percent on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange through last week.  “Society had to benefit in some way from the fact that
Petrobras is owned by the state,” Salto said in a phone
interview. “The benefit is to avoid a fuel price increase in a
moment of accelerating inflation, even if this affects the
company’s shares or the sovereign fund.”  Fundo Fiscal de Investimento e Estabilizacao, created with
the aim of building up savings and providing a cushion against
outside shocks, has gained 28 percent since its inception. In
addition to Petrobras, the fund holds shares of state-controlled
Banco do Brasil SA, which account for 9 percent of assets. The
remaining 11 percent is composed of Brazilian  government bonds .  Raising Capital  Unlike wealth funds in countries from  Singapore  to Norway,
Brazil’s isn’t financed with budget surpluses as the country
runs a deficit. Instead, the government issued local bonds to
raise the initial capital. The government hasn’t made
contributions or taken withdrawals since starting the fund.  Petrobras Chief Executive Officer Jose Sergio Gabrielli
said April 12 that Brazil’s gasoline prices must go up if oil
prices remain high. Two days later, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said in an interview in  Washington  the company wouldn’t
raise gasoline prices in the “short-term.”  Consumer prices rose 6.44 percent in the 12 months through
mid-April, approaching the 6.5 percent upper limit of the
central bank’s target.  “Fuel prices have to rise,” Nelson Rodrigues de Matos, an
analyst at Banco do Brasil, said in a telephone interview from
 Rio de Janeiro . “Petrobras’s CEO says that if  oil prices  stay
near current levels, domestic prices have to go up. Then the
 Finance Ministry  says there’s no need for an increase. That’s
probably why investors are concerned about the company.”  Producer Rally  A Finance Ministry press official declined to comment in an
e-mailed statement.  The lost revenue is causing Petrobras shares to miss out on
a rally by crude producers worldwide. Irving, Texas-based Exxon
Mobil Corp., the largest U.S. oil producer, soared 18 percent
this year through last week, while  Europe ’s biggest, Royal Dutch
Shell Plc, added 4 percent. PetroChina Co., the nation’s largest
oil company, advanced 6 percent. The Brazilian producer’s
preferred shares, the most traded, dropped 3.7 percent in that
period.  Petrobras preferred shares gained 0.1 percent to 26.20
reais at the close of  Sao Paulo  trading at 4:15 p.m. New York
time after earlier falling 0.9 percent.  Oil reached a 31-month intraday high of $113.48 in New York
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  