-- 
Picasso Mistress, German Art Add $99 Million to London Sales

-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 
2011-04-27T09:51:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/picasso-mistress-german-art-add-99-million-to-london-auctions.html
A Pablo Picasso painting of his
mistress Marie-Therese Walter and a collection of German art
from the 1960s and 1970s may add as much as 60 million pounds
($99 million) to London’s June art auctions.  Picasso’s canvas “Jeune fille endormie,” showing Marie-
Therese snoozing on her folded arms, is estimated to fetch 9
million pounds to 12 million pounds at Christie’s International.
The group of 59 German contemporary works has an upper estimate
of 47.5 million pounds at  Sotheby’s. (BID)   Owners of valuable 20th-century trophies have become more
confident about selling after record prices last year. Picasso’s
1932 Marie-Therese painting “Nude,  Green Leaves  and Bust”
fetched $106.5 million -- the most for any artwork at auction --
at Christie’s,  New York , in May 2010. A simpler portrait of her
may fetch as much as $35 million at Sotheby’s New York in May.  “Prices have climbed back dramatically,” David Leiber,
director of the New York-based gallery  Sperone Westwater , said
in an interview. “For the classic works, collectors like the
spectacle of buying at auction.”  Christie’s 1935 Picasso is being sold by an anonymous owner
who is donating proceeds to the  University of Sydney  to fund
medical research. The canvas included in Christie’s June 21
auction of Impressionist and modern art hasn’t been seen in
public for 70 years, the London-based company said in an e-mail
today.  Paintings inspired by Picasso’s love affair with Marie-
Therese -- a favorite with Russian collectors -- have set eight
of the 20 highest auction prices for the world’s biggest-selling
artist.  Blonde Lover  The 45-year-old Picasso met his blonde mistress by chance
in 1927 when she was leaving the Paris subway. Marie-Therese was
17 at the time, and she remained the lover of the artist, who
was married to Olga Khokhlova, from 1927 to about 1935.  “I bowed my head in front of him,” she recalled more than
40 years later, according to the Atlantic Monthly in June 1988.
The phrase perfectly describes the pose of Christie’s painting,
whose sale will follow the exhibition “Picasso and Marie-
Therese: L’Amour Fou,” showing at  Gagosian Gallery , New York.  Early paintings by  Georg Baselitz ,  Gerhard Richter  and
Sigmar Polke from the 1960s will lure bidders at Sotheby’s
separately cataloged sale of works belonging to Christian Graf Duerckheim-Ketelhodt, chairman of the Cologne-based
pharmaceutical company  Axiogenesis AG. (AI8)  Thirty-five lots will be
included in U.S.-based company’s evening auction of contemporary
art on June 29.  Lenz Sale  Sellers have been encouraged by the 23.2 million pounds
raised by Sotheby’s 47-lot sale of conceptual “Zero” art from
the German collectors Gerhard and Anna Lenz in February 2010.
Only one lot failed and the total doubled the presale low
estimate of 11.2 million pounds.  “The recent success of private collections has helped,”
Cheyenne Westphal, Sotheby’s European head of contemporary art,
said. “Though our seller is still an avid buyer in other areas,
he finished this particular collection in 1985.”  Like Mr. and Mrs. Lenz, Duerckheim has owned his paintings
for decades, said Sotheby’s. Baselitz’s 1962 to 1963 figure
painting, “Die Grosse Nacht im Eimer” (The Big Night Down the
Drain), inspired by a drunken reading by the Irish writer
Brendan Behan, is estimated at as much as 3 million pounds.  The work was described by the artist as “my first
painting,” said Sotheby’s. It is a sister painting of a work
confiscated by the East German government when it was first
exhibited.  Polke Dots  Polke’s enigmatic 1960s landscape “Dschungel” is the
largest of the artist’s “Rasterbilder” (dot paintings) to
appear at auction. Measuring 8 feet (2.4 meters) wide, it is the
most highly valued work and may fetch 4 million pounds.  Richter’s 1965 photo-inspired painting “Telefonierender,”
showing a man talking on a telephone, may sell for as much as 3
million pounds, while the artist’s 1974 color chart “1024
Farben” is tagged at 1 million pounds to 1.5 million pounds.  The collection also includes paintings by  Blinky Palermo ,
 A.R. Penck ,  Konrad Lueg  and Eugen Schoenebeck, priced from
150,000 pounds to 700,000 pounds.  “Sotheby’s will package the sale very cleverly,” said
Leiber. “I think we’ll see prices for Polke and Baselitz begin
catch up with Richter at this auction.”
pounds.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in  London  at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 