-- 
Platinum Properties, Developer, Files for Bankruptcy Protection in Indiana

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-04-26T15:49:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/platinum-properties-developer-files-for-bankruptcy-protection-in-indiana.html
Platinum Properties LLC, an  Indiana 
developer of residential real estate, filed for bankruptcy and
sued one of its banks to prevent it from winning a claim.  Platinum sought Chapter 11 creditor protection with debt of
$100 million to $500 million, according to papers filed
yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Indianapolis. Assets are
$10 million to $50 million.  “The debtors are victims of the well-publicized collapse
of the residential real estate market that began in early
2006,” Platinum said in court papers. “Total lots sold by the
debtors plummeted.”  The Indianapolis-based developer accompanied its Chapter 11
filing with an adversary complaint against PNC Bank, which is
listed as an unsecured creditor with a claim of $16.4 million.  PNC was the lender for three Platinum projects, according
to the complaint. After the loans matured in 2009, PNC moved to
foreclose on the properties, suing Platinum in Hamilton County
in Indiana. PNC won a judgment in January totaling $16.1
million.  With this lawsuit, Platinum asked the  bankruptcy court  to
disallow PNC’s claims.  Muriel Stanton, listed in court papers as the developer’s
representative at PNC Bank in Indianapolis, said in a telephone
interview that the bank has no comment.  Biggest Creditors  Platinum’s largest listed unsecured creditor is Duke
Construction LP of Indianapolis, with a claim of $31.9 million.
Bank of America of  Chicago  is the largest listed secured
creditor, with an $11.6 million claim.  Paul Rioux is named as the largest equity holder in
Platinum. The company said in court papers it owns or is
developing five real-estate projects, including Bellewood and
Maple Knoll.  The case is In re Platinum Properties LLC, 11-05140, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of Indiana (Indianapolis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in  New York  at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  