-- 
Prices of Homes in U.S. Probably Dropped, Consumers’ Confidence Picked Up

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-04-26T04:01:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/prices-of-homes-in-u-s-probably-dropped-consumers-confidence-picked-up.html
Residential real estate prices
probably dropped in February by the most in more than a year, a
sign the housing market is struggling to stabilize, economists
said before a report today.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of home values in 20 cities fell
3.3 percent from February 2010, the biggest 12-month decrease
since November 2009, according to the median forecast of 25
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Another report may show
 consumer confidence  increased in April as job gains helped
cushion the effects of rising gasoline costs.  Increases in foreclosures are adding to a growing inventory
of unsold homes, which may further depress prices and dissuade
potential buyers anticipating even cheaper dwellings. Declining
property values also limit construction and restrain  consumer
spending  as homeowners have less equity to borrow against.  “The massive overhang of houses is going to keep pressure
on prices,” said  Joshua Shapiro , chief U.S. economist at Maria
Fiorini Ramirez Inc. in New York. “We need supply and demand to
be in much better balance, and with the enormous amount of
supply out there -- both existing and looming from foreclosures
soon to be -- that’s going to take a while.”  The S&P/Case-Shiller index, based on a three-month average,
is due at 9 a.m.  New York  time. Survey estimates ranged from
declines of 2.5 percent to 4 percent. Prices dropped 3.1 percent
in the 12 months ended January.  The New York-based Conference Board’s consumer confidence
gauge, due at 10 a.m., rose to 64.5 this month from 63.4 in
March, according to the survey median. Projections ranged from
57 to 68.  Fed Meeting  Federal Reserve policy makers, who begin a two-day meeting
today, are likely to affirm they’ll finish a $600 billion
Treasury-purchase program on schedule at the end of June,
according to economists such as Neal Soss, chief economist at
Credit Suisse in New York. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will hold
his first press conference following the central bank’s
statement tomorrow, giving him an opportunity to discuss his
next steps.  Consumers’ economic outlook also brightened in similar
surveys this month. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose
last week, and the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary consumer sentiment index advanced to 69.6 in April.  The Case-Shiller report may show  home prices  fell 0.4
percent in February from the prior month, the eighth straight
decline, according to the Bloomberg survey.  The year-over-year gauges provide better indications of
trends in prices, the group has said. The panel includes  Karl
Case  and  Robert Shiller , the economists who created the index.  Beige Book   Real estate markets for single-family homes “either were
little changed from low levels or continued to weaken across all
Districts,” in February and March, according to the Fed’s Beige
Book. For homebuilders, “the spring building season is likely
to be slower than previously anticipated,” the Fed said in
April 13 regional report.  With unemployment close to 9 percent, home values declining
and a swelling supply of unsold properties, confidence among
U.S. homebuilders fell in April. The National Association of
Home Builders/Wells Fargo sentiment index declined to 16 from 17
in March, the Washington-based group said last week. Readings
below 50 mean more respondents said conditions were poor.  Builder shares have underperformed the broader stock market
in the last year. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite
Homebuilder Index of 12 builders has declined 17 percent in the
12 months ended yesterday, compared with a 10 percent increase
for the broader  S&P 500 Index .  KB Home (KBH) , the Los Angeles-based homebuilder that targets
first-time buyers, this month reported a bigger-than-expected
loss for the quarter ended Feb. 28 as orders plunged.  “Today’s consumers remain very cautious, whether they have
concerns about home prices falling further, their job status,
their ability to qualify for a loan, or general confidence in
the economy,” President and Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Mezger  said during a conference call with analysts on April 5.
“A sustained, broad-based housing recovery will not occur until
we start to experience material job creation.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  