-- 
Puma Stock Jumps After Company Sets 3 Billion-Euro Sales Target

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-04-26T07:51:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/puma-stock-jumps-after-company-sets-3-billion-euro-sales-target.html
Puma AG,  Europe ’s second-largest
sporting-goods maker, rose to a seven-week high in  Frankfurt 
trading after saying it’s targeting revenue of 3 billion euros
($4.4 billion) in 2011 as first-quarter profit rose 7.2 percent.  Net income increased to 77.7 million euros, or 5.15 euros a
share, from 72.5 million euros, or 4.80 euros a share, in the
year-earlier period, Herzogenaurach, Germany-based Puma said
today in a  statement . The average estimate of six analysts
compiled by Bloomberg was for profit of 77 million euros, or
5.10 euros a share. Consolidated sales climbed 13 percent to
773.4 million euros.  The maker of Future Cat Ferrari-branded sneakers is seeking
to boost annual revenue to 4 billion euros by 2015. Puma
predicted in February that profit will rise this year and next
at a “mid-single-digit” percentage pace as sales are boosted
by an economic recovery and sponsorship contracts with sports
stars such as sprinter Usain Bolt.  “The sales were a positive surprise,” Ingbert Faust, an
analyst at Equinet AG in Frankfurt with an “accumulate”
recommendation on Puma stock, said in a phone interview.  Puma gained as much as 8.40 euros, or 4 percent, to 217
euros, the highest intraday price since March 10, and was up 3.2
percent as of 9:49 a.m. in Frankfurt. That pared the stock’s
decline this year to 14 percent, valuing the company, which is
controlled by  France ’s  PPR (PP)  SA, at 3.2 billion euros.  “Despite expected moderate price increases in sourcing
costs related to raw materials and wages for the second half,
management still foresees continuous improvement of net earnings
by mid single-digits,” the company said. “Puma’s outlook for
2011 continues to be favorable.”  Puma forecast in February that sales will rise in the
“mid-to-high-single-digit” percentage range in the next two
years. Consolidated revenue last year totaled 2.7 billion euros.  Excluding currency moves, first-quarter sales advanced 4.4
percent in Europe, the Middle East and  Africa  and 20 percent in
the Americas, Puma said today. Revenue from the Asia-Pacific
region advanced 6.9 percent on the same basis, mitigating the
effects of last month’s earthquake in  Japan , the company said.  Sales of footwear, excluding currency shifts, climbed 6.8
percent, while apparel sales increased 2.2 percent. Revenue from
accessories, Puma’s smallest product category, jumped 42
percent, boosted by the Cobra Golf division that the sporting-
goods maker acquired from  Fortune Brands Inc. (FO)  last year.  First-quarter earnings before interest and tax rose 2.1
percent to 111 million euros, Puma said. The average analysts’
estimate was for EBIT of 112.9 million euros.  Operating expenses before special items increased 22
percent to 298.6 million euros, Puma said. Investments in
marketing, sales, product development as well as “process
optimization” will continue to affect the operating-expenses
ratio, the company said.  Puma named Franz Koch last month to succeed Chief Executive
Officer Jochen Zeitz, who will become chairman of the
supervisory board when the sporting-goods maker changes its
corporate structure. Puma’s conversion into a Societas Europaea
is expected to be completed by July at the latest, the company
said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  