-- 
Putin Says NATO Strikes Destroying Libya, Violate Mandate

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-04-26T16:28:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/putin-says-nato-strikes-destroying-libya-violate-mandate-1-.html
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said Western military efforts to overthrow Libyan leader
 Muammar Qaddafi  are destroying the nation’s infrastructure and
violate a United Nations mandate to protect civilians.  “Who decided they had the right to execute a man,
regardless of who he is?” Putin told reporters in Copenhagen
today during a joint briefing with his Danish counterpart Lars Loekke Rasmussen.  After more than two months of fighting between Qaddafi’s
forces and rebels seeking to end his 42-year rule, Libya has
ground to a military impasse, with the government controlling
much of the west and the insurgents holding the east. A NATO
airstrike yesterday destroyed part of Qaddafi’s Bab al-Aziziya
compound in the capital Tripoli. NATO said in an e-mailed
statement that it hit a “communications headquarters” in
Tripoli, without giving details.  Putin on March 21 likened the UN resolution and resulting
offensive to a “medieval call for a crusade.” He criticized the
U.S. for regularly resorting to force in pursuit of its
interests, in  Libya  and previously in Iraq and  Serbia .  ‘Object of Interest’  “Libya’s oil reserves, by the way, are the biggest in
 Africa  and its gas reserves are ranked fourth-biggest in
Africa,” Putin said. “This begs the question of whether they
are the main object of interest for those operating there
today.”  The conflict in Libya has pushed  oil prices  to the highest
since September 2008. Crude has gained more than 30 percent
since the war began in mid-February. Libya’s production, which
averaged 1.6 million barrels a day last year, shrank to 390,000
barrels a day in March, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
producers.  “Internal disagreements arose there, growing into an armed
conflict,” Putin said. “But why intervene from the outside
into this armed conflict?”  The Middle East is “full of monarchic states” that
“generally correspond to the mentality of the population and
the practice that’s emerged there,” Putin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Copenhagen via the Moscow newsroom at 
   iarkhipov@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 