-- 
Rajaratnam Jury Listens Again to Wiretaps, Deliberations Set for Third Day

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-04-27T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/rajaratnam-jurors-hear-tapes-weigh-elements-of-insider-trading.html
Jurors in the Raj Rajaratnam
 insider-trading  trial, after listening again to wiretaps of the
defendant’s phone calls, are set to resume their deliberations
today in the insider-trading trial.  The panel asked yesterday to rehear nine recordings,
including one of Rajaratnam talking with former McKinsey & Co.
partner Anil Kumar. Kumar, who pleaded guilty in the case, told
the jury how he tipped Rajaratnam to news about clients. In the
call, recorded March 24, 2008, Kumar discussed a possible
transaction between Fujitsu Ltd. and Lenovo Group Ltd.  “They are very, very far in discussion,” Kumar could be
heard saying as jurors sat in silence in the jury box in
 Manhattan  federal court.  Rajaratnam, 53, was arrested in October 2009 in the largest
crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history.
Prosecutors say he gained $63.8 million from tips leaked by
corporate insiders and hedge-fund traders about stocks including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and Clearwire Corp.
Rajaratnam, who says he based the trades on research, faces as
long as 20 years’ prison on some counts.  In another call replayed yesterday, Rajaratnam and his
brother Rengan are heard discussing whether another McKinsey
employee might become a source of inside tips. The jurors
listened to Raj Rajaratnam, co-founder of Galleon Group LLC,
chatting with his friend Rajiv Goel, who was an executive at
Intel before he pleaded guilty and testified for prosecutors.  Jurors also reheard a recording of Rajaratnam talking to
Krish Panu, a director of PeopleSupport Inc., about a
transaction involving the company; a conversation between Kumar
and Rajaratnam about a possible role for Kumar in a firm co-
founded by Rajaratnam; and Rajaratnam talking with a Galleon
trader about the stock market’s performance on Sept. 12, 2008.  The jurors, who began deliberating yesterday, didn’t
explain why they wanted to hear the calls. More than 40 such
recordings were played at trial.  ‘Elements’ of Crimes  Raj Rajaratnam isn’t technically on trial for insider
trading. He’s accused of  securities fraud  and conspiracy.
Insider trading is the fraudulent scheme that violates both the
securities-fraud and conspiracy laws.  As U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell explained to the
jury on April 25, the panel must return a verdict on 14 separate
counts: nine for securities fraud and five for conspiracy.
Insider trading is a “specific scheme” rendered illegal by the
securities fraud and conspiracy statutes, he said.  To find that Rajaratnam violated securities laws, jurors
must conclude that there’s evidence beyond a reasonable doubt of
several elements, the judge said. Jurors must find that he
“employed a device, scheme or artifice to defraud;” that he
did so “willfully, knowingly and with the intent to defraud;”
and that he used the “means or instruments” of interstate
transportation or communication to do so.  Holwell broke it down further.  To find that Rajaratnam engaged in a scheme -- that is,
insider trading -- jurors must conclude that his source of
information had “a relationship of trust and confidence” with
a particular company, that the insider breached that
relationship by leaking tips, that Rajaratnam knew of the breach
of duty, and that Rajaratnam used “material, non-public
information” to buy and sell stock, Holwell said.  Conspiracy is equally complex. “The essence of the crime
of conspiracy is an agreement or understanding to violate
another law,” Holwell said.  Conspiracy also has several elements, Holwell said: that
there was “an agreement or understanding among at least two
people” to violate U.S. laws, that Rajaratnam knowingly became
a member of that conspiracy, and that any one member of the
conspiracy knowingly committed at least one act in furtherance
of the scheme.  Jury Foreman  Leading the jury’s discussions is a 56-year-old man who has
worked for two years as a graphic artist for  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  A native
of Manhattan’s Lower East Side, the juror selected as foreman
has lived in the Bronx for about a decade. He’s one of three men
on the 12-person jury.  During jury selection seven weeks ago, he told the judge
that he is married to a school teacher, reads Macworld and
Sports Illustrated, and enjoys watching ESPN and playing video
games.  “The basic guy stuff,” he said.  He’s also a fan of the  New York  Knicks, who were swept this
week by the  Boston Celtics  in National Basketball Association
post-season play.  It isn’t clear whether he thinks the Rajaratnam trial was
as one-sided.  ‘Last Name Unknown’  Don’t let it be said that lawyers lack a sense of humor.  As reporters chatted on benches yesterday waiting for word
from the jury, Sabrina Shroff, a public defender, poked her head
into the courtroom, scanned the crowd and said in a loud voice,
“Excuse me, but is there anyone here for ‘Last Name Unknown,
First Name Unknown’?”  Shroff had come to Holwell’s courtroom to represent a
client in a sentencing in an unrelated case. The defendant, Jose
Rivera, refused to give a name at the time of his arrest and
first appeared as a defendant in U.S. v. Last Name Unknown,
First Name Unknown.  In an interview later, Shroff said her question was meant
to contrast for the assembled reporters the fame of Rajaratnam
with the anonymity of her client.  What was “Last Name Unknown, First Name Unknown” being
sentenced for? Aggravated  identity theft .  Rivera got 24 months in prison.  The insider-trading case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-
01184, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  