-- 
Rakuten Weighs Europe Deals to Challenge EBay With Japan Recipe

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-04-27T06:51:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/rakuten-weighs-europe-deals-to-challenge-ebay-with-japan-recipe.html
Rakuten Inc. (4755) , Japan’s biggest
online retailer, is counting on acquisitions to help break the
EBay and Amazon habits of European shoppers.  Pierre Kosciusko-Morizet, the 34-year-old Frenchman who
joined last year as part of the company’s takeover of
 PriceMinister.com , is leading Rakuten’s European expansion. His
goal is to replicate an online shopping mall that’s taken Japan
by storm and helped the retailer increase revenue more than
sevenfold to about $4.2 billion in the past six years.  The Tokyo-based company’s flagship shopping portal,  Rakuten
Ichiba , connects some 22,000 merchants to customers looking for
a one-stop shop for products from electronics to pajamas.
Rakuten is considering several takeover opportunities in Europe
to add to the 200 million-euro ($293 million) purchase of
PriceMinister.com that brought it to  France , the executive said
in an interview.  “We want to implement the Rakuten business model in other
large European countries,” said Kosciusko-Morizet, who founded
PrimeMinister.com in 2001. “There’s a willingness to invest in
growth and aggressively expand.”  Doing so will mean translating a unique retail formula to
European tastes. Rakuten makes money from commissions on
transactions as well as fees like those levied on credit cards.
The company has used its customer base to sell extra services
such as those cards, which generated $771 million in revenue
last year based on current exchange rates, or 18 percent of
total sales.  Takeover Targets  Rakuten’s strategy for European deals may include providers
of value-added services, which on its Japanese sites include
travel reservations, banking and even golf-course bookings,
Kosciusko-Morizet said.  A range of assets may be available.  PPR (PP)  SA, the owner of
the Gucci luxury goods brand, plans to sell its fashion and
home-furnishing retailer Redcats. The unit, which operates 31
brands in 17 countries including online retailer La Redoute,
will add more third-party brands this year as it seeks to become
a marketplace for fashion, CEO Jean-Michel Noir said last month.
Redcats has an enterprise value of 1.35 billion euros, according
to Sanford C. Bernstein estimates.  Besides marketplace-type sites, Rakuten could also consider
acquiring specialized retailers like London-based fashion hub
 Asos Plc (ASC)  or Play Ltd., which sells DVDs and gadgets, said
Matthew Stych, research director at retail consultancy Planet
Retail in  London .  Cash Pile  Kosciusko-Morizet declined to comment on specific targets,
saying the company won’t ignore promising opportunities “given
the size of Rakuten in  Japan .” Rakuten doesn’t have a fixed
amount of cash set aside for deals in Europe, he said.  At the end of last year, Rakuten had about 73 billion yen
($892 million) of cash and deposits. Its footprint in its home
market is growing, with transaction volume in Japan reaching
almost 2.7 trillion yen last year, up about 44 percent. In
addition to taking control of Paris-based PriceMinister, Rakuten
bought U.S. site  Buy.com  for $250 million in May last year.  Rakuten fell 0.3 percent to close at 72,900 yen at the 3
p.m. close of trading in  Tokyo . The stock has gained 7.2 percent
this year, the fifth-best performance on the 58-company MSCI
Japan Consumer/Discretionary Index, which fell 5.4 percent. The
stock slipped 1.4 percent to 73,100 yen yesterday, giving the
company a market value of about $11.8 billion.  Challenging Amazon  Breaking the dominance of  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  eBay Inc. (EBAY)  in
Europe won’t be easy. Seattle-based Amazon, the world’s largest
online retailer, received just under 20 million visitors from
the U.K. in  January , 24 million from  Germany  and 12 million in
France, according to market researcher  ComScore Inc. (SCOR) 
PriceMinister, which lets users buy and sell items including
books and sporting goods, was visited by 10 million French Web
surfers in the same period.  Amazon reported yesterday a 31 percent jump in first-
quarter sales for its international segment, which include the
U.K., German, French, Italian as well as Chinese and Japanese
sites, to $4.39 billion. The company opened an eBookstore in
Germany and announced new German applications for smartphones
such as Apple Inc.’s iPhone and tablets.  “Online retail tends to consolidate dramatically,” with
revenue accruing to one or two leaders in a given market, said
Martha Bennett, a retail analyst at technology researcher Ovum
in London. Shopping sites “are incredibly sticky. It’s a
network effect and just inertia,” she said.  Louis Vuitton Partnership  Meanwhile, other retailers are increasingly functioning as
Rakuten-like middlemen, giving consumers access to merchants
offering a wider selection than it keeps in its own warehouses.
Amazon’s Marketplace service, which connects third-party
merchants to the site’s customers, accounts for about 34 percent
of units sold, and is now “the driver of Amazon’s profit,”
according to Andrea Carini, a  Forrester Research Inc. (FORR)  analyst.  To help get ahead in Europe, Rakuten is counting on a
secret weapon: friendly relations with luxury-goods producers.
EBay has fought years of court battles with brand owners
including L’Oreal SA and  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (LVMH) 
over the sale of  counterfeit goods  by third-party merchants,
leading to fines and orders to halt sales of some products.  Last September, Rakuten and LVMH’s Louis Vuitton unit
announced an alliance to work “proactively” to prevent the
sale of fake goods on Rakuten’s auction sites. Similar deals
with other brand owners may follow, Kosciusko-Morizet said.  “The future is playing nice with brands,” a lesson
Rakuten has learned quickly in  Europe , Forrester’s Carini said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net . 