-- 
South African Rand Falls a Third Day Versus Euro as Stocks, Metals Decline

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-04-26T10:02:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/rand-weakens-a-third-day-versus-euro-as-stocks-commodities-drop.html
The rand weakened against the euro
for a third day after companies including Nintendo Co. missed
earnings estimates, and commodity prices fell on speculation the
 Federal Reserve  may end its bond-buying program.  The South African currency declined as much as 0.5 percent
to 9.8633 per euro, and traded 0.3 percent weaker at 9.8455 as
of 11:38 a.m. in Johannesburg. The rand strengthened less than
0.1 percent versus the dollar to 6.7314.  The Federal Reserve begins a two-day meeting today and may
determine whether to maintain monetary stimulus to support the
recovery in the world’s biggest economy. Asian stocks declined,
copper slumped the most in seven weeks, and gold slid for the
first time in 10 days. Markets were closed in  South Africa  for
the Easter public holiday yesterday, and will be closed again
for Freedom Day tomorrow.  “With Asian markets opening weaker this morning on the
back of disappointing earnings data, the rand has gotten off to
a shaky start this week,”  Michael Keenan , a Johannesburg-based
analyst at Standard Bank Group Ltd., said in a research note.
“With more public holidays this week, the rand will likely
remain stuck in a range.”  Government bonds  gained ahead of the release of producer
price and credit data due on Thursday and Friday, which may
indicate the outlook for inflation and  interest rates . The 6.75
percent notes due 2021 rose, cutting the yield 3 basis points to
8.5 percent.  Producer prices probably rose an annual 7.2 percent in
March, from 6.7 percent the previous month, according to the
median estimate of nine economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Private sector loans probably expanded 5.85 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story: Gavin Serkin
at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 