-- 
Rand Strengthens Versus Dollar on Speculation That Fed Will Keep Rates Low

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-04-26T14:36:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/rand-strengthens-versus-dollar-on-speculation-that-fed-will-keep-rates-low.html
The rand snapped a two-day decline
to strengthen against the dollar on speculation the  Federal
Reserve  will keep rates low and continue measures to support the
 U.S. economy .  The South African currency advanced as much as 0.5 percent
to 6.6964 per dollar, and traded 0.3 percent higher at 6.7138 as
of 3:31 p.m. in Johannesburg. The rand traded 0.1 percent
stronger at 9.8068 per euro.  The rand has climbed 5.6 percent against the dollar in the
past three months, buoyed by demand for the currency from
investors borrowing at low interest rates to buy high-yielding
assets in the so-called carry trade. The South African central
bank’s benchmark rate is 5.5 percent, compared with the federal
funds target rate of zero and 0.25 percent in the U.S.  “The dollar continues to take pain at the hands of
investors disillusioned by the country’s current policy mix,”
 John Cairns  and Nema Ramkhelawan, currency strategists at Rand
Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said in a research note. The need
to stimulate growth “should result in an unchanged policy
stance, providing little support to the beleaguered dollar,”
they said.  The Federal Reserve begins a two-day policy meeting that
will be followed by Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s first post-
policy decision press conference. The U.S. central bank will
leave its target rate for overnight lending between banks
unchanged, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  South African  government bonds  gained ahead of the release
of producer price and credit data due on Thursday and Friday,
which investors will watch for clues about the outlook for
inflation and  interest rates . The 6.75 percent notes due 2021
added 18 cents to 88.43 rand, cutting the yield 3 basis points,
or 0.03 percentage point, to 8.50 percent.  Producer prices probably rose an annual 7.2 percent in
March, from 6.7 percent the previous month, according to the
median estimate of nine economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Private sector loans probably expanded at 5.85 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  