-- 
Real Madrid's $2,400 Dinner Helps Soccer Team Surpass Barcelona in Sales

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-04-26T22:01:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/real-madrid-s-2-400-dinner-helps-soccer-team-surpass-barcelona-in-sales.html
Real  Madrid  will come out the
winner in its Champions League semifinal against Barcelona, at
least at the box office.  Real sold about 4,500 premium tickets, some of which cost
1,652 euros ($2,413) and include dinner at the Santiago Bernabeu
stadium’s Puerta 57 restaurant tonight. Those seats will garner
as much revenue for the nine-time European champion as the other
75,000 ordinary tickets, and help it stay above Barcelona as
soccer’s biggest team by sales, according to former Real
president Ramon Calderon.  “It seems over-the-top, but if that’s what people are
willing to pay, fair enough” Calderon said in a telephone
interview.  Real Madrid increased income from its stadium and
membership fees by 110 percent to 148.6 million euros for the
year to June 2010, compared with five years earlier, after
investing $190 million on building  three restaurants including
Puerta  57 and groups of VIP boxes, its accounts show. Team
officials declined to comment.  Barcelona, which is charging 750 euros for its costliest
ticket to the May 3 rematch at the Camp Nou, doesn’t have a
restaurant and has fewer luxury boxes. The team, which canceled
a 250 million-euro stadium redesign by architect  Norman Foster 
last year, got 115.5 million euros in fiscal 2010 from the arena
and membership fees, a 54 percent increase from five years
earlier.  “The VIP boxes are bigger and flashier” at Real Madrid,
said Jose Maria Gay, an accountancy professor at Barcelona
University who writes an annual report about Spanish soccer team
finances. “People go for the glamour.”  Beckham, Ronaldo  Real Madrid has pursued revenue more aggressively than
Barcelona since Florentino Perez became president in 2000,
partly to finance marquee player signings including  David Beckham  and  Cristiano Ronaldo , Calderon said. It overtook
Manchester United as the biggest team by sales in 2005.  Barcelona, the No. 2-earning team according to a report by
Deloitte LLP in February, has dominated on the field: winning
the Spanish league in four of the last six seasons and taking
the Champions League in 2006 and 2009.  Lionel Messi  and  Xavi Hernandez  are among the squad who graduated from its youth team.
Real last won the elite European title in 2002.  Wood-paneled Puerta 57, which means “Gate 57,” seats
about 100 diners and is “brightly bourgeois,” according to a
review on American Express Publishing Corp.’s  Travel + Leisure
magazine’s website . The restaurant’s specialties include clams,
octopus and peppers, the website says.  Free Bar  On match days, clients watch the soccer from a seat in the
second tier of the stadium before retiring to the glass-screened
restaurant overlooking the field at half-time for a buffet
dinner including cured ham, tortilla and Rioja wines. A free bar
in Puerta 57 is also open for an hour before and 30 minutes
after the game.  Real Madrid can command more for corporate hospitality
because there are more companies in the capital and more of a
culture of entertaining than in  Spain ’s second city, Esteve
Calzada, a former Barcelona team marketing executive, said.  Companies and wealthy individuals are still spending on
premium tickets even as Spain struggles to emerge from two years
of recession: only 80 VIP passes for tonight’s game remained
yesterday, according to the Real website.  Spain’s unemployment rate is more than 20 percent and
households are reining in spending to pay down debt taken on
during a decade-long property boom.  Cutting Costs  Real’s income increased by 20 million euros last year after
the team hosted the Champions League final between Inter Milan
and  Bayern Munich , its accounts say. This season’s final will be
at  London ’s Wembley Stadium.  Manchester United  and  Germany ’s
Schalke are the other semifinalists.  For next week’s game in Spain,  Barcelona  was able to sell
“very few” premium tickets because most of its boxes are
booked for the season, officials said. The club built some
third-tier boxes about five years ago and still plans an
extensive revamp of its 54-year-old stadium, although it hasn’t
decided how, the officials said.  This season, it’s cutting costs including travel by
executives after posting a 77 million-euro loss for fiscal 2010,
partly after losing a lawsuit against pay-TV company Sogecable
SA. The Camp Nou “needs a revamp, everybody agrees,” Calzada
said. “The question is about how to do it.”  Tonight’s semifinal is one of four games between Real and
Barcelona in less than a month. They drew 1-1 in the Spanish
league at the Bernabeu on April 16 and Real won 1-0 in  Valencia 
to win the Spanish Cup on April 20.  Even if Barcelona, based in the capital of the Catalonia
region, invested in making corporate hospitality more glitzy it
might not trigger a bigger premium-ticket market for cultural
reasons, Gay said.  “People go to Real Madrid to be seen,” Gay said. “Us
Catalans like to go unnoticed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 