-- 
Treasury Two-Year Yields Reach One-Month Low as Notes Auctioned, Fed Meets

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-04-26T21:11:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/treasuries-advance-as-u-s-auctions-2-year-notes-amid-speculation-on-fed.html
     April 26 (Bloomberg) -- Treasuries rose, pushing two-year
note yields to the lowest level in more than a month as the U.S.
sold $35 billion of the securities amid bets  Federal Reserve 
policy makers are considering measures to keep yields low.  The notes drew a yield of 0.673 percent, compared with a
forecast of 0.669 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of eight of
the Federal Reserve’s 20 primary dealers. The bid-to-cover
ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids with amount
of securities offered, was 3.06, below the 3.42 average at the
past 10 sales. Treasuries advanced earlier as the  Federal Open
Market Committee  started its two-day policy meeting.  “Sentiment is bullish for Treasuries as flows are light
and we are in the midst of the FOMC meeting, which no one wants
to make any big tactical moves during,” said  Christopher Sullivan , who oversees $1.7 billion as chief investment officer
at United Nations Federal Credit Union in New York. “The two-
year auction was decent, adding to the bid.”  Yields on the current two-year note fell four basis points,
or 0.04 percentage point, to 0.60 percent at 5:08 p.m. in New
York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It was the
lowest level since March 21. The price of the 0.75 percent
security due in March 2013 gained 2/32, or 63 cents per $1,000
face amount, to 100 9/32.  The benchmark 10-year note yield dropped six basis points
to 3.31 percent and reached 3.30 percent, the lowest level since
March 23. Thirty-year bond yields slid seven basis points to
4.39 percent, also the least since March 23.  Bernanke’s Briefing  The Fed is due to release a policy statement tomorrow at
about 12:30 p.m.  New York  time, and Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
is scheduled to speak to reporters at 2:15 p.m. The press
conference will be the first in a series of four per year, each
following a policy meeting, in an effort by the central bank to
improve communications with the public.  Tomorrow’s five-year note auction has been rescheduled
because of the Fed statement and briefing. Competitive bids will
be due at 11:30 a.m. New York time, rather than the usual 1 p.m.  “There’s a lot of focus on the press conference because
it’s the first one in a new format,” said  Richard Bryant , head
of Treasury trading in New York at the primary dealer MF Global
Inc. “It will make the five-year auction interesting because it
will be earlier. It may add volatility to the process, which
could result in some concession, but in general the market is
well bid and the likely outcome may be a similar result to
today’s auction.”  The Fed will leave the target rate for overnight lending
between banks at zero to 0.25 percent, according to all 83
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The rate has been kept at
that level since December 2008 to support the economy.  Purchase Program  The policy meeting comes as the end of the Fed’s U.S. debt-
purchase stimulus plan approaches. The central bank announced in
November it would buy $600 billion of Treasuries by the end of
June to spur growth. It acquired $2 billion today in maturities
due from May 2021 to November 2027 as part of the program.  Policy makers will probably indicate tomorrow that
reinvestment of maturing securities will continue beyond June,
 Andrew Tilton , an economist at the primary dealer Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. in New York, wrote in a report yesterday.  The chance of an interest-rate increase by March 2012 has
fallen to 45 percent from 58 percent a month ago, futures
contracts show.  The chairman of the Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee
said today it would be “catastrophic” if the U.S. did not
raise the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt ceiling. The Treasury
projects it will hit the cap May 16 and that emergency measures
will take it only to July. The committee includes
representatives from Goldman Sachs and Bank of America Corp.  ‘Catastrophic’ Crisis  “Any delay in making an interest or principal payment by
Treasury even for a very short period of time would put the U.S.
Treasury and overall financial markets in uncharted territory,
and could trigger another catastrophic financial crisis,”
Matthew Zames, chairman of the panel, wrote in a letter to
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  released in  Washington 
today. Zames is a managing director at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Geithner said in remarks in New York that Congress needs to
act by June. It would be “irresponsible” not to act, he said.  At today’s auction, indirect bidders, an investor class
that includes foreign central banks, bought 37.9 percent of the
notes, versus an average of 33.5 percent at the past 10 sales.  Direct bidders, non-primary dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 13.4 percent of
the notes, compared with an average of 14.3 percent at the last
10 auctions.  Two More Auctions  The offering was the first of three note auctions this week
totaling $99 billion. The Treasury is scheduled to sell $35
billion in five-year debt tomorrow and $29 billion of seven-year
notes on April 28  Treasuries rose earlier after U.S. residential real-estate
prices dropped in February by the most in more than a year, in
line with economists’ estimates. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of
property values in 20 cities fell 3.3 percent from February
2010, the biggest year-over-year decrease since November 2009.  Durable-goods orders rose 2.3 percent in March after a
revised 0.6 percent decline in February, another Bloomberg
survey forecast before Commerce Department data tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  