-- 
Threatened Florida Everglades Need U.S. EPA to Police Cleanup, Judge Rules

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-04-27T23:51:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/threatened-florida-everglades-need-u-s-epa-to-police-cleanup-judge-rules.html
A federal judge gave the U.S.
 Environmental Protection Agency  power to enforce cleanup of the
 Florida  Everglades after concluding state authorities haven’t
done enough.  The state of Florida and the South Florida Water Management
District “have not been true stewards of protecting the
Everglades in recent years,” U.S. District Judge Alan S. Gold
in Miami wrote in yesterday’s ruling.  “It is now, and has been for a while, time to take
concrete and substantial progress toward preserving the
Everglades before this national treasure is permanently
destroyed to the extent of irreparable destruction,” Gold said.  The  Everglades  is a 100-mile-long (161 kilometer) sheet of
shallow fresh water flowing south from Lake Okeechobee in
Florida’s center through marshlands and then into the ocean at
the state’s southern tip. Once covering  11,000 square miles , its
area was reduced by half through drainage begun early last
century to reclaim land for farming and real-estate development.  The  Miccosukee Tribe of Indians of Florida , whose members
are the only residents of the Everglades, sued the U.S. and the
EPA in June 2004. The tribe is seeking to force the government
to review and disapprove an amended version of the Everglades
Forever Act, a law passed by the Florida Legislature in 1994 to
resolve litigation over a plan to clean up the wetlands,
according to Gold’s ruling.  Phosphorous Concentrations  The cleanup plan required the state to take actions to
reduce concentrations of phosphorous in the Everglades. It was
developed as part of a 1992 agreement to settle a lawsuit
brought by the U.S. against Florida in 1988 for failure to
enforce water-quality standards, Gold said in his ruling.  “The primary purpose of this latest order is to put into
the hands of the EPA all the resources necessary to enforce its
action plan and to implement its full power under the
congressional  Clean Water Act ,” Gold wrote.  New Hope Sugar Co. and Okeelanta Corp. had joined the case.
Those companies, together with their affiliates, own and farm
about 190,000 acres next to the Everglades Protection Area,
according to the ruling.  Gaston Cantens, a spokesman for Florida Crystals Corp.,
which owns New Hope Sugar and Okeelanta, didn’t return a call
seeking comment.  ‘Federalizing’ Permits  The Florida  Environmental Protection Department  was
disappointed by the ruling giving the U.S. EPA “permitting
authority, essentially federalizing Florida’s Everglades
restoration permitting process,” said Jennifer Diaz, a
spokeswoman for the agency, in an e-mailed statement.  The Florida agency is “vigorously pursuing” its appeal in
the case, Diaz said.  Amy Graham, a spokeswoman for Florida Governor  Rick Scott ,
said in an e-mailed statement that he is “disappointed in the
ruling by Judge Gold which shifts Everglades restoration
permitting authority from the state to the federal government
bureaucracy.”  The EPA is reviewing the decision and had no immediate
comment, said Betsaida Alcantara, a Washington-based spokeswoman
for the agency.  Friends of the Everglades “agrees with Judge Gold’s
frustration with decades of broken promises by the state to end
flagrant pollution of the Everglades by big sugar,” the group,
a plaintiff in the case with the Miccosukee tribe, said in an
e-mailed statement.  ‘Decades’ of Costs  “Florida political officials, including Governor Rick Scott, appear blinded to the fact that the state itself is
substantially to blame for the decades of accumulated costs, for
failure to require the polluter to pay,” the conservation group
said. “EPA, rejuvenated under President Obama, can step in
decisively.”  Joe Collins, chairman of the South Florida Water Management
District, which is responsible for part of the Everglades
cleanup effort, said his staff is reviewing the ruling and he
hasn’t had a chance to look it over.  “I really don’t have a sense of what it means yet,” he
said.  The habitats of Everglades birds, reptiles and plant life
have been altered by a network of drainage canals that interrupt
the natural water flow and from fertilizer runoff from
agriculture. The mix of salt and fresh water where the
Everglades meets the sea provides the world’s sole habitat where
alligators and crocodiles exist together.  Land Purchase  Former Governor  Charlie Crist , a Republican, announced a
plan in 2008 for the state to buy 187,000 acres of Everglades
farmland from U.S. Sugar Corp. for $1.75 billion.  Concern for the cost and legal challenges to a proposal to
borrow as much as $2 billion forced the plan to be reduced to a
$1.34 billion purchase of 180,000 acres in November 2009 and to
73,000 acres for $536 million in April 2010.  “It is a vital resource of water for one in three
Floridians and crucial to Florida’s economy,” Kirk Fordham,
chief executive officer of the Everglades Foundation, said in an
e-mailed statement. “We regret that such a message had to come
from a federal judge.”  The case is Miccosukee Tribe of Indians of Florida v. U.S.,
04-21448, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida
(Miami).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  