-- 
Trichet Says Policy Makers Must Avert Any Jump in Inflation Expectations

-- B y   K e n   M c C a l l u m
-- 
2011-04-26T00:08:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/trichet-says-ecb-must-continue-solidly-anchoring-inflation-expectations.html
European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said policy makers must avert any jump in
inflation expectations amid the risk of higher prices spreading
through the economy.  “We have risks of second-round effects here and there,”
Trichet said in the transcript of an interview with Finnish
publications Helsingin Sanomat and Kauppalehti that was released
on the ECB’s website today. Second-round effects refer to an
increase in consumer prices prompting bigger wage increases that
then feed through to faster inflation.  ECB Governing Council members signaled this month that they
will keep tightening monetary policy this year to curb inflation
as the region’s economy strengthens. Investor expectations that
the benchmark interest rate will be increased by another 50
basis points in 2011 are “well-founded,” Austria’s Ewald Nowotny said in  Washington  on April 16.  Trichet said that “it is extremely important to continue
solidly anchoring inflation expectations in a period which is
marked by uncertainties and turbulences.”  The ECB’s so-called non-standard measures such as purchases
of  government bonds  from the secondary market are “temporary by
nature,” Trichet said. Decisions on those measures are
independent from interest rate decisions, which are based on the
bank’s views on  price stability , he said.  U.S. Credit  The ECB president said he has “full trust” in the U.S.
preserving its creditworthiness. All advanced economies,
“without exception,” should be “very keen on the
sustainability of their long-term fiscal policies,” he said.  Standard & Poor’s  said last week that the U.S. government
risks losing its AAA credit rating unless policy makers agree on
a plan by 2013 to reduce budget deficits and the national debt.  Trichet said he “entirely” shares the U.S.’s view that a
strong dollar is in the U.S. interest.  The euro has strengthened 8.7 percent against the dollar
this year, and reached $1.4649 on April 21, its highest level
since December 2009. The European currency traded at $1.4556 at
8:42 a.m. in  Tokyo .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ken McCallum in Tokyo at 
 kmccallum4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ; 