-- 
Richmond Fed Service Firm Survey for April (Text)

-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 
2011-04-26T14:19:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/richmond-fed-service-firm-survey-for-april-text-.html
The following is the text from the Richmond Federal
Reserve Bank’s service sector activity survey for April.  Regional Surveys of Business Activity Overview  Service sector activity picked up in April, according to the latest survey by
the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. Retail sales rebounded and shopper traffic
increased compared to a month earlier, although big-ticket sales remained down.
Revenues also strengthened at non-retail services firms. In addition, survey
respondents at retail and non-retail service sector businesses were upbeat in their
outlook for business in the six months ahead.  On the labor front, the number of employees grew more rapidly at services-
providing firms in April, while retail merchants made more payroll cuts. Average
retail wages were nearly flat; at services firms, average wages picked up this month.  Price change was moderate, with the overall rate of increase slightly quicker
in April than in March. Separately, retailers’ prices slowed, while services
providers indicated prices rose more rapidly. Survey participants looked for a small
uptick in the pace of price increases during the next six months.  Overall Service Sector Conditions  Revenues in the broad service sector bounced up in April, doubling last month’s
index to 28 in April. The index for the number of employees added four points to
finish the period at a reading of 12, as strength in non-retail hiring overshadowed
cuts at retail establishments. Average wages rose, with that index remaining at 10
for a second month. Looking ahead six months, survey respondents were optimistic
about expected demand; the index climbed fourteen points from the March reading to
37.  Retail  Retail sales jumped up in April, pushing the index thirty-six points above the
March index to 24. Shopper traffic also rose sharply, driving that index to 34 from
the month-ago reading of 1. Big-ticket sales remained soft, however. The index
picked up two points to finish the period at -31. Retail inventories leveled off,
with the index at -1, compared to -6 last month. Retailers anticipated continuing
growth in sales during the next six months; the expectations index advanced thirty-
three points to 21.  Retail employment remained slack, however. Merchants reduced the number of
employees sharply in April, pulling the index to -17 from last month’s -7. The index
for average retail wages dipped to -2 from its month-ago reading of 10.  Services-Providing Firms  Revenues at non-retail firms grew solidly in April, with the index adding five
points to end at 26. In addition, services providers expanded hiring, increasing the
index for the number of employees to 22 from 12. Average wages also picked up
momentum; the index rose to 15 from last month’s 11. Survey respondents at services
firms expected strong sales in the next six months. The index for expected demand
gained six points, finishing at 43.  Prices  Service sector price growth inched up in April at an annualized rate of1.02
percent. This follows a 0.92 percent increase in March. Retail prices increased at a
somewhat slower annual pace of 1.17 percent, compared to last month’s 1.81 percent.
Price change at services firms picked up to a 1.01 percent rate; in March, services
providers’ prices rose at an annualized 0.69 percent pace.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington at   cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  