-- 
RNC’s Priebus Says U.S. Economy, Record Debt Will Cost Obama a Second Term

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-04-26T19:12:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/rnc-s-priebus-says-u-s-economy-record-debt-will-cost-obama-a-second-term.html
Republican National Committee
Chairman Reince Priebus said the nation’s shaky economic outlook
and record debt will spell defeat for President  Barack Obama  in
2012 while giving Republicans “a mandate” to present an
alternative to voters.  The party chairman, chosen in January, predicted the field
of prospective Republican presidential candidates will narrow by
summer’s end, and the race will be shaped in large part by
whether voters are satisfied with the country’s economic
direction.  “There’s an economic vulnerability and dire problem that
Barack Obama is largely responsible for in our country,”
Priebus, 39, told reporters at a breakfast in Washington today
sponsored by the Christian Science Monitor.  He said he was confident that Republicans will field a
viable candidate and “that person will present a very clear
choice and difference on those issues of jobs and debt and
deficit. We’ll have to wait for our nominee to make that case,
but I think we’re in a good position to.”  Priebus said he isn’t concerned that Republicans’ drive for
deep spending cuts and message of austerity -- in contrast with
Obama’s talk about “winning the future” -- will turn voters
off.  Not ‘Fun and Games’  People “are very worried about the future economic
solvency of our country, and that there are times in our lives
when we need to just roll up our sleeves and get serious about
the issues,” Priebus said.  “Some of it isn’t fun and games, and you can’t keep -- as
the president does -- talking about hope and talking about
winning the future when, number one, hope isn’t hiring in
America, and we’re not winning the future, we’re losing the
future,” he said.  Obama, who opened his re-election campaign April 4, has
defended his economic record, saying his policies helped prevent
the nation from sliding into a depression, and that he needs a
second term to finish the job.  “Two and a half years later, the economy is growing
again,” Obama said April 21 at a fundraiser in  Los Angeles .
“So we’ve made progress, but our work is not finished.”  Goodwill Ambassador  Priebus, who in January defeated previous party Chairman
 Michael Steele  and others to become RNC chief, said he spent his
first months on the job working to shrink the organization’s
financial shortfall and restore its “credibility” after a
tumultuous two years. That included a staff overhaul,
fundraising, and embarking on a “goodwill ambassadorship” with
major donors, party activists and leaders, members of Congress
and reporters.  He said he has reduced the RNC debt, which topped $24
million when he took over, to less than $20 million. Party
members had said Steele neglected major donors during his two-
year term. He also was criticized for public statements such as
one that the conflict in  Afghanistan , which began after the
Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, was a “war of Obama’s choosing.”  Priebus said he’s far more concerned with the economic
debate and rebuilding the party organization than with the
controversy -- fed most recently by real estate developer  Donald Trump  -- over whether Obama was born in the U.S. Obama was born
in  Hawaii , yet some Republicans have questioned whether he is
foreign-born and ineligible to be president.  Not Moving Voters  “I’ve got better things to worry about,” Priebus said.
“My position is that the president was born in the  United
States , and I don’t think it’s an issue that moves voters.”  Priebus, who began as a local Republican activist in
 Wisconsin  and became state chairman in 2007, said while he might
be prepared to step in if his party’s primary campaign became
nasty, he won’t weigh in on the positions taken by Trump or any
of the party’s other prospective presidential candidates.  “It’s up to the voters around this country and our primary
voters to make a decision as to who and what presidential
nominee they want us to nominate,” Priebus said. “It’s Donald
Trump’s right to get on TV and say whatever it is that he wants
to say, and it’s up to the voters of this country to choose a
nominee.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Washington  at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  