-- 
Robot Stock Picker Beats Human Fund Managers After Japan Quake

-- B y   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a   a n d   A k i k o   I k e d a
-- 
2011-04-26T23:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/robot-stock-picker-beats-human-fund-managers-after-japan-quake.html
A fund that uses mathematical
models to trade stocks and sports a  beer-swilling  robot as its
mascot beat  Japan ’s best money managers last month, when an
earthquake and tsunami triggered a nuclear crisis and sparked
panic equities selling.  Six computer programs, making all the investment decisions
for T&D Asset Management’s Kabu-Robo Fund, generated returns of
1.9 percent in March. The average actively traded fund that
invests in Japan lost 6.9 percent during the month, according to
Tokyo-based Rating and Investment Information Inc. The benchmark
 Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average dropped 8.2 percent in the period.  “People tend to go with the herd when there’s a panic,”
said Kazuhiro Kunisada, chief executive officer of Trade Science
Corp., which designed the programs for T&D’s Kabu-Robo Fund.
“Robots just follow the rules.”  About $590 billion in mutual fund assets were invested
globally in quantitative strategies at the end of 2010, compared
with about $3.7 trillion with managers who use fundamental
analysis, according to eVestment Alliance LLC, an Atlanta-based
provider of investment information and analytic technology. The
category has seen 14 straight quarters of outflows, losing about
$369 billion since September 2007, the data show.  Active Algonoid and five other robots trading for the Kabu-
Robo Fund saw a buying opportunity when equity prices plunged
following the record quake and tsunami on March 11. On March 15,
when the Topix tumbled 9.5 percent to its lowest level since
March 2009, Kabu-Robo’s computers bet 30 percent of the fund’s
assets, or 402 million yen ($4.9 million) on companies such as
JX Holdings Inc. and Cosmo Oil Co.  Sell Signals  Shares were unloaded in the next week as gains triggered
sell signals, according to Masaki Kawashiro, director of sales
at  Trade Science . Kabu-Robo was the best performer among 393
actively managed funds that invested in Japanese stocks in March,
according to Rating and Investment Information.  Kabu-Robo, which first tested its software as stocks
plunged when Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. went bankrupt, hasn’t
performed as well in bull markets. The fund’s 6.6 percent gain
between November and February lagged behind an 18 percent
advance for the Topix, the most of any major benchmark during
that period.  T&D started the fund in July 2009, giving names such as
Active Algonoid and Mikazuki to trading programs that use chart
analysis and moving-averages to find cheap stocks. The fund’s
website has a cartoon video featuring a blue action-hero-like
robot that pumps its fist and clinks beer mugs with investors in
business suits.  Kabu-Robo’s programs were chosen in a software  contest 
started in 2004 by Tokyo-based Trade Science, a unit of Monex
Group Inc., the brokerage that markets the fund. Of more than
20,000 submissions from amateur and professional developers, 10
programs were picked and modified for the fund’s use.  “Humans get greedy and that’s when they make mistakes,”
said Trade Science’s Kunisada. “Programs just buy when stocks
fall to a certain level and sell after they rise.”  To contact the reporters on the story:
Akiko Ikeda in  Tokyo  at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John McCluskey  at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net . 