-- 
Rome to Host 1 Million Pilgrims for John Paul Beatification

-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 
2011-04-26T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/rome-to-host-1-million-pilgrims-for-john-paul-beatification.html
     April 27 (Bloomberg) --  Rome ’s population will swell by
about 1 million people this weekend as pilgrims from around the
world descend on the city to celebrate the beatification of  John Paul II , the Polish-born pope who died in 2005.  The Italian capital’s 1,000-plus hotels are almost fully
booked, with some rooms going at double their usual rate,
according to the  hotel.info  booking service. Police closed six
hotels and issued more than 300,000 euros ($438,000) in fines
for tourist rip-offs and practices including adding up to eight
beds to small rooms, Ansa news wire reported April 21.  Church-run hostels and guest houses have been “inundated
with requests” since the current pope, Benedict XVI, announced
John Paul’s beatification, said Sister Emilia of the  Giusti
Hotel , run by nuns of the Saint Ann of Providence order.
Beatification is the third of four steps in the process of
canonization, or becoming a saint.  About 1.1 million visitors are expected over the weekend in
 Rome , a city of 2.8 million, as Catholic pilgrims add to the
usual flow of tourists and music-lovers attending the annual May
Day concert, according to the municipality’s  website . The cost
of security, transportation, clean-up, health care and other
services for the weekend will be around 3.5 million euros ($5
million), the city said.  “We are very excited and nervous about our trip,” said
Maria del Puy Campo, who will travel to Rome from  Madrid  along
with 35 members of her church. “It was very difficult to book
flights and hotels.” Even at a price of 520 euros for a one-
night package with meals and flights, Campo, 35, was determined
to make the trip, saying she has “a special affection for this
pope, as I had an audience with him and was also in Rome when he
died.”  Miracle Cure  Benedict in January began the process for his predecessor’s
canonization by decreeing that John Paul had miraculously healed
a French nun with  Parkinson’s disease . Following the
beatification ceremony on May 1, the first Sunday after Easter,
Karol Jozef Wojtyla will be declared “blessed,” allowing for
his public veneration by Catholics and moving him a step closer
to sainthood, which requires a second miracle.  The gathering of pilgrims will be Rome’s largest since the
April 2005 death of John Paul, when more than 1 million
followers and 200 religious and political leaders came to pay
their respects. During the pontiff’s funeral, crowds of mourners
chanted “Santo Subito,” or “Sainthood Now.”  Waiting Period  The Vatican heeded the call, waiving the traditional five-
year waiting period before initiating the process of
beatification, the first time the procedure has been sped up
since the Church began the process for Mother Teresa of Calcutta
upon her death in 1997.  Rome has  dedicated three days  to the proceedings, beginning
with a vigil on April 30 at the Circus Maximus, an ancient
amphitheater, followed by a ceremony the next day in St. Peter’s
Square and a concert. The faithful will be able to view the late
pope’s remains on May 1 inside St. Peter’s Basilica.  “Pope Wojtyla was a friend not just of the faithful but of
all of Rome,” Mayor Gianni Alemanno said in a video message on
the City Hall website. “We remember him in our neighborhoods
and our churches, unforgettable memories that we want to
celebrate together.”  Polish Visitors  City authorities say they expect over 5,000 buses carrying
about 260,000 visitors, many of whom will be from  Poland . Around
30,000 Poles have signed up for church-organized trips to the
Italian capital, with more than 400 coaches and three trains
chartered, according to Father Piotr Studnicki, a priest
involved in organizing the trips.  “I remember the crowds for the funeral,” said Marco
Daidda, who works at the  Canova Café’  in Rome’s Piazza del
Popolo. “It was madness for days all over the city and we’re
expecting more of the same” this weekend, he said. Rome will be
“packed, and we’ll be working like mad.”  To deal with the crowds, the city will provide additional
bus and metro service and set up 200 information and assistance
points, 400 portable toilets, a temporary hospital and 14 mobile
health posts staffed with doctors and nurses. Some 3,500
volunteers and 300 civil protection officers will be on hand to
help manage crowds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 