-- 
Ron Artest Gets NBA’s Citizenship Award Seven Years After Brawl With Fans

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-04-26T19:06:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/ron-artest-gets-nba-s-citizenship-award-seven-years-after-brawl-with-fans.html
Ron Artest  won this season’s
National Basketball Association citizenship award, seven years
after running into the stands and starting a brawl with Detroit
Pistons’ fans.  Artest received the award from the Professional Basketball
Writers Association for his efforts to promote mental-health
awareness.  The Los Angeles Lakers’ forward appeared before the U.S.
Congress in support of the Mental Health in Schools Act and
raised more than $650,000 for the cause by raffling off the
championship ring he won last season. He also participated in a
public-service announcement in conjunction with the Los Angeles
County Department of Mental Health.  “Ron has such a passion for the issue, and has
demonstrated such leadership he was a perfect choice for such a
prestigious award,” PBWA president Doug Smith of the Toronto
Star said in a statement.  Artest, 31, has had a series of off-court issues during a
12-year NBA career. Most notable was in 2004, when a shoving
match between him and Ben Wallace of the Pistons started a
bench-clearing fight near center court at the Palace of  Auburn
Hills  in  Michigan .  Artest, who was then with the  Indiana Pacers , avoided the
altercation by lying on the scorer’s table. He then bolted into
the crowd to confront a fan after being hit by a cup thrown from
the stands, setting off an exchange of punches between players
and fans. Artest was banned for the rest of the regular season
and playoffs, a total of 73 games.  Artest averaged 8.5 points and 3.3 rebounds this season for
the Lakers.  Previous winners of the J. Walter Kennedy Citizenship Award
-- named for the NBA’s second commissioner -- include Dikembe Mutombo, Chauncey Billups, Steve Nash,  Kevin Garnett , David Robinson and  Magic Johnson .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  