-- 
Royal Wedding Apathy Spurs Britons to ‘Commemorate Indifference’

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-04-26T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/royal-wedding-apathy-spurs-britons-to-commemorate-indifference-.html
When online retailer Camila Prada
invited Britons to “commemorate your indifference” to this
week’s royal wedding by purchasing a jokey bone-china mug, she
got so many orders that PayPal Inc. almost closed the account.  “I was just sitting at my computer freaking out,” Prada,
a 34-year-old Canadian, said in an interview. “My account went
from zero to 10,000 pounds ($16,000) in a week and a half.”  While Prince William’s marriage to  Kate Middleton  may draw
more than a half million visitors to  London  and spark thousands
of street parties across the country on April 29, about a third
of the population will try their best to ignore the occasion,
according to a poll by YouGov Plc.  Prada isn’t the only entrepreneur to tap demand for
unconventional souvenirs. Lydia Leith, for example, is selling
royal wedding-themed sickness bags in red, blue, purple and gold
through her  website . A pair costs about 8 pounds and features a
cartoon of the royal couple framed by the slogans “throne up”
and “keep this handy on April 29th, 2011.”  “I heard people saying ‘I’m sick of hearing about this
bloody royal wedding’ because it had been on the news so much,
and that was at Christmas,” Leith, 24, said in an interview.
The graphic designer from Cumbria, northern  England , has sold
about 8,000 bags, each of which are hand-signed.  ‘Couldn’t Care Less’  Prada says her Tamworth, England-based company,  Sorry But ,
sold almost all of the 15-pound mugs with the slogan: “I
couldn’t care less about the royal wedding.” About 90 percent
of her buyers came from the U.K.  The jump in sales prompted online payment service PayPal to
ask Prada to provide documents proving her business is
legitimate.  Visit London, the city’s official tourism agency, estimates
that about 1.1 million people will visit the capital on April
29, about 600,000 more than usual. The marriage may add as much
as 620 million pounds to the economy in tourism revenue and
sales of food and drink, according to  Verdict Research , a retail
analysis unit of Datamonitor Plc.  Alternative attractions include a “Not the Royal Wedding”
street party organized by  Republic , a group that espouses the
view that the U.K. shouldn’t have a monarchy at all. Graham
Smith, a spokesman, said about 500 people are expected to attend
the event on Red Lion Square near the Holborn subway station,
including campaigners against  Europe ’s other monarchies in
countries such as  Sweden  and the Netherlands.  “It’s a fun and positive way to show that we want to get
rid of the monarchy and have a full-blooded democracy in this
country,” Smith said.  Some countries want to break up the monarchy in other ways.
On the Polynesian island of Niue, a Commonwealth nation about
2,400 kilometers (1,500 miles) east of  New Zealand , inhabitants
can buy a stamp depicting the prince and the bride. The stamp
contains a perforated line, so it can be split into two halves.
William’s half costs NZ$3.40 ($2.73), while Kate’s costs a
dollar less.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 