-- 
Rupiah Weakens Most in Six Weeks on Intervention Speculation

-- B y   S u r y a n i   O m a r
-- 
2011-04-26T10:23:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/rupiah-weakens-most-in-six-weeks-on-intervention-speculation.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah declined the
most in six weeks on speculation the central bank intervened to
curb gains that may hurt exports and as political violence in
the Middle East intensified. Benchmark bonds fell.  The rupiah retreated from a seven-year high as regional
currencies weakened after Syrian security forces attacked the
city of Daraa yesterday, killing at least 20 people, as
President Bashar al-Assad seeks to stamp out a six-week uprising.
The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks lost 0.4 percent amid
concern the  U.S. economy  grew at a slower pace in the first
quarter.  “ Bank Indonesia  fears that if the currency appreciates too
fast it may reduce the country’s export competitiveness,” said
Mika Martumpal, a currency analyst at PT Bank Commonwealth in
Jakarta. “Asian stocks are also down. Investors are cautious as
we’re expecting a lot of important data this week such as the
 Federal Reserve  rate meeting and economic data from the U.S.”  The rupiah declined 0.4 percent to 8,646 per dollar as of
4:58 p.m. in Jakarta, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That was the biggest one-day loss since March 15. The currency
touched 8,600 yesterday, the strongest level since April 2004.  Gross domestic product in the U.S. rose at a 2 percent
annual pace in the first three months of the year from the
previous quarter, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg before data due April 28. That compared
with a 3.1 percent annualized gain in the fourth quarter. The
Federal Reserve meets to set its benchmark interest rate on
April 27.  The U.S. was the second-largest buyer of non-oil exports
from Indonesia, after  Japan , in February, according to data from
the Central Bureau of Statistics.  Ten-year  government bonds  fell. The yield on the 8.25
percent note due July 2021 climbed two basis points to 7.79
percent according to closing prices from the Inter-Dealer Market
Association.  Indonesia plans to start a benchmark-sized sale of 10-year
dollar bonds today or tomorrow, according to three investors
informed of the issuance, who asked not to be identified before
a public announcement. Bambang Brodjonegoro, the  Finance
Ministry ’s head of fiscal policy, said in Jakarta today
Indonesia may sell global debt in the “near future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suryani Omar in Jakarta at 
 somar6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 