-- 
Putin Revokes Export Breaks for TNK-BP, Rosneft on Oil Price

-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-04-26T14:50:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/russia-revokes-oil-export-breaks-for-surgut-tnk-bp-rosneft.html
Russia  revoked export tax breaks on
oil from eastern Siberian fields developed by TNK-BP, the
Russian venture half-owned by  BP Plc (BP/) , and OAO Surgutneftegas
after prices for the fuel climbed.  TNK-BP’s Verkhnechonsk deposit and Surgut’s Talakan project
will have to pay the regular rate starting from May 1, when the
duty will rise to the highest level since the 2008 financial
crisis, according to an  order  signed by Prime Minister Vladimir
Putin April 25 and posted on the government website today. OAO
Rosneft will also have to pay the full rate on oil from the
Vankor field.  Russia moved the projects to the full  tax rate  after higher
 oil prices  gave them faster returns than initially modeled,
 Alexander Sakovich , a Finance Ministry adviser, said by
telephone today. The three fields enjoyed tax breaks until the
internal rate of return reached 17 percent, he said.  The government is seeking to balance incentives for
developing remote  oil fields  and plans to boost exports to  Asia 
with a forecast budget gap this year. Putin approved a 7.1
percent increase in the export duty to $453.70 a metric ton
($61.90 a barrel) in May, while the discounted duty will reach
$211.70, according to the order. The tax is based on oil prices.  Vankor, Talakan and Verkhnechonsk ship oil via the East
Siberian Pacific Ocean pipeline network to  China  and the port of
Kozmino.  More Risk  The move may raise risks for new projects and be set back
for Russia’s output goals, Alex Fak, an oil and gas analyst at
Troika Dialog, said by telephone. Putin has urged oil producers
to keep output at 505 million tons a year (10.1 million barrels
a day) for at least a decade.  “ Oil companies  are unlikely to let this happen again,”
Fak said. “They want a credible commitment that is enshrined in
law.”  The export duties and discounts are up to the prime
minister’s discretion, making it harder for oil producers to
plan, Fak said. The government offered the discounted export
duties and some exemptions from the mineral extraction tax to
spur development of the costly and remote deposits.  Deputy Finance Minister Sergei Shatalov said in May last
year that the Talakan deposit may retain tax discounts through
the end of the 2012. TNK-BP’s Verkhnechonsk deposit, in which
Rosneft also holds a minority share, was supposed to keep breaks
until the end of 2011, he said.  Urals crude prices for northwest  Europe  averaged $102.39 a
barrel in the first quarter of this year, 36 percent higher than
in the same period of the previous year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  