-- 
Saab Automobile’s Property Sale Stalls Amid European Union Bank Conditions

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-04-26T11:27:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/saab-automobile-s-property-sale-stalls-amid-european-union-bank-conditions.html
Saab Automobile, the Swedish
carmaker that’s been forced to halt production amid a cash
crunch, said plans to raise funds by selling property have
stalled because of European Investment Bank demands.  Conditions from the European Union’s investment arm include
Saab refinancing the sale or replacing the purchaser “within a
limited period of time,” Dutch owner  Spyker Cars NV (SPYKR)  said today
in a statement. The property, including Saab’s Swedish factory,
would be bought by Russian banker  Vladimir Antonov .  Saab’s factory in Trollhaettan, Sweden, has been idle all
but a few days since March 29 after some suppliers halted
shipments and demanded payment. Saab hit a cash shortage after
sales last year fell short of its forecast. The carmaker owes at
least 300 million kronor ($49.1 million) to suppliers, estimates
FKG, a trade group representing Swedish auto suppliers.  “Saab Automobile is working with all parties involved on a
solution to complete the sale of the property and will have
further talks with the EIB today,” Spyker said.  Spyker fell as much as 25 cents, or 5.8 percent, to 4 euros
and was down 5.4 percent as of 1:21 p.m. in Amsterdam trading.
The shares have advanced 16 percent this year, valuing the
Zeewolde, Netherlands-based company at 80.8 million euros ($118
million).  Saab and Spyker also said they’re continuing to work on
other ways to raise money, including negotiating equity, debt
and technology licensing deals with “various Chinese car
manufacturers.” They didn’t identify those companies.  ‘Full Plate’  Volvo Cars, the Swedish automaker owned by Zhejiang Geely
Holding Group Co., has denied a Dutch media report from last
week that the Swedish government has asked it to possibly
acquire Saab.  “There has been no such initiative,” Volvo spokesman Olle Axelson said by telephone today. “We have never discussed it,
never looked at it. We have a very full plate already, we don’t
need to spend time and resources on Saab.”  The EIB is requesting more clarification from the Swedish
government, the country’s national debt office,  General Motors
Co. (GM)  and Saab, Spyker said.  “We are awaiting GM’s agreement to Saab’s liquidity
package,” Eva Srejber, an EIB vice president, said today in an
emailed comment. “We are working together with the other three
parties involved to resolve the final step.” Andreas Kroemer, a
GM spokesman in Russelsheim,  Germany , declined to comment.  The EIB agreed last year to lend 400 million euros to Saab
for specific engineering projects. Saab has so far drawn 217
million euros of the loan. The proposed asset sale, which the
Swedish debt office said April 21 it supports, would involve
reducing the amount Saab borrows from the EIB to 280 million
euros.  Antonov, who is also a former Spyker chairman, today will
meet with Bo Lundgren, head of  Sweden ’s national debt office, to
discuss terms for letting the Russian invest in Saab and Spyker,
Lars Carlstrom, Antonov’s spokesman, said in a telephone
interview late yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in  Stockholm  at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  