-- 
Sarkozy, Berlusconi Show United Front in Rome on Takeovers, Immigration

-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-04-26T12:47:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/sarkozy-berlusconi-meet-amid-tension-on-immigration-m-a-1-.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  displayed a
united front after a summit today, saying they had defused
disputes over corporate takeovers and immigration.  The annual French-Italian summit came as the two sparred
over dealing with 30,000 North African refugees and a bid by
France’s Groupe Lactalis to gain control of dairy  Parmalat SpA. (PLT) 
Lactalis said today it will bid for the rest of Parmalat in an
offer valued at 3.4 billion euros ($4.9 billion).  “I welcome the creation of big French-Italian and Italian-
French groups that can hold together in the face of global
competition,” Berlusconi told a press conference in Rome after
the talks with Sarkozy, adding that the Lactalis takeover bid
was not “hostile.”  Sarkozy and Berlusconi both face political pressure on the
issues, echoing German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s effort to back
euro-region financial bailouts over domestic opposition. Sarkozy
faces re-election next year and Berlusconi’s hold on power
depends on the Northern League, whose leaders in the past have
called for boats carrying refugees to be bombed and sunk.  “There is a lot of pressure on Sarkozy to show that he is
still controlling immigration, which will be one of the key
issues of the elections,” said Francois Lafond, director of the
 German Marshall Fund  of the  United States  in Paris. “Berlusconi
is completely in the hands of the  League  and they are tough on
immigration.”  Schengen Overhaul  Both leaders said they would work to overhaul the European
Union’s Schengen treaty, which permits free movement within most
of  Europe , as a wave of immigrants flees unrest in North Africa.
They sent a joint letter to European Commission President Manuel Barroso because “in exceptional circumstances we believe there
must be changes and we’ve agreed to work together on them,”
Berlusconi said.  Sarkozy also said he backed Berlusconi in the Italian push
to install Bank of Italy Governor  Mario Draghi  as Jean-Claude Trichet’s successor as president of the  European Central Bank .  “ France  will be very happy to support an Italian for the
presidency of the ECB,” Sarkozy said at the press conference.
“I know Draghi well. We support him not because he is Italian
but because he is a man of quality.”  The two leaders also voiced support for rebels in  Libya  and
condemned violence in Syria, calling on the government in
Damascus to refrain from attacks on civilians. Berlusconi said
Italy’s decision yesterday to take part in airstrikes in Libya
would be limited to hitting strictly “military targets.”  Takeover Bid  Shortly before today’s summit started, Lactalis announced
it will bid for the rest of Parmalat in an offer of 2.60 euros
per share, a 12.5 percent premium to the closing price April 21,
according to a stock-exchange statement.  “We have an ambitious growth plan for Parmalat, making it
the Italian company of reference in the dairy market,” Lactalis
Chairman Emmanuel Besnier said in the statement.  The announcement came after Italy had stepped up efforts to
prevent further takeovers by French companies, less than a month
after Paris-based  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  said it
would pay 3.7 billion euros ($5.4 billion) for Rome-based luxury
jeweler  Bulgari SpA. (BUL)   Last month, the government announced a package of measures
aimed at protecting companies considered “strategic” and to
block Lactalis from parlaying its 29 percent stake in Parmalat
into management control.  ‘Big’ Companies  Both Berlusconi and Sarkozy said they support the creation
of “big French-Italian” groups, with the Italian premier
saying he aims for Italian investors to remain in Parmalat.
Sarkozy said he couldn’t speak on behalf of Lactalis.  As Berlusconi and Sarkozy met, shareholders of  Edison SpA (EDN) ,
Italy’s second-biggest power company, gathered to install
Frenchman Bruno Lescoeur as chief executive. He was nominated by
Electricite de France SA, which owns about 50 percent of the
company and got its Italian partners to accept the appointment.  Franco-Italian tensions escalated this month when  Italy 
began issuing mostly French-speaking Tunisian refugees residency
permits, which allow them to travel within the EU. France has
responded with stepped-up border controls and even shut a train
line between the two countries being used by immigrants.  Italy began granting the permits after calls for EU allies
to engage in burden sharing were ignored. At an emergency
meeting of EU interior ministers on April 11, EU Home Affairs
Commissioner Cecilia Malmstroem said it would be “premature”
to activate EU-wide measures such as an emergency-refugee
mechanism set up in 2001 after the war in Kosovo.  Berlusconi and Sarkozy called for greater EU assistance to
North African countries to help deter illegal immigration. In a
joint statement, they urged the EU to step up lending and
credits to the “southern rim” of the Mediterranean through
bilateral loans and efforts by the European Investment Bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Davis in  Rome  at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  