-- 
Sarkozy Backing of Draghi for ECB Post Puts Pressure on Merkel to Follow

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-04-27T14:13:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/sarkozy-backing-of-draghi-for-ecb-post-puts-pressure-on-merkel.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s
endorsement of  Mario Draghi  as the next European Central Bank
chief pressures German Chancellor Angela Merkel to follow suit
or risk rankling her biggest European partners.  Sarkozy yesterday backed Bank of Italy Governor Draghi, 63,
after signals from German officials that he’s their preferred
banker, adding momentum to a campaign to make him  Europe ’s most
powerful monetary policy maker. Portugal today endorsed Draghi.  The leader of Europe’s largest economy, Merkel has yet to
indicate a preference for a successor to  Jean-Claude Trichet  at
the ECB. The appointment may become tied up in German opposition
to bailouts. With Portugal’s rescue set to push the cost of aid
to euro states past 250 billion euros ($366 billion), Merkel may
face domestic criticism for choosing a southern European from a
country with a legacy of inflation and debt.  “Merkel is in a dilemma,”  Juergen Michels , chief euro-
area economist at Citigroup Inc. in  London , said by telephone.
“The question is whether Merkel can sell an Italian at the helm
of the ECB as a guarantor of stability to the German public.”  Draghi emerged as the front-runner after  Germany ’s  Axel Weber  withdrew from the race in February. German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  sees Draghi as likeliest to be
appointed as the ECB’s next president, people close to him say.
Trichet’s non-renewable eight-year term ends on Oct. 31.  ‘Man of Quality’  Sarkozy rejected the suggestion that nationality would hurt
Draghi’s candidacy. “We support him not because he is Italian
but because he is a man of quality,” Sarkozy said at a briefing
with Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  in  Rome .  “And it
would be a very good signal for  Italy , which may have doubts
about its role and position within Europe.”  The statement suggests it’s only a matter of time before
Merkel throws her support behind Draghi, said  Nicolas Jabko , an
associate professor of political economy at  Johns Hopkins
University  in Baltimore.  “When Axel Weber pulled out, it was up to the Germans to
come up with a credible alternative and they couldn’t,” Jabko
said by telephone. “I can’t imagine that Sarkozy would have
been so clear if he hadn’t had any prior contact with Merkel.”  The French move wasn’t coordinated with Germany,
Handelsblatt newspaper reported today, citing an unnamed German
official.  ‘Important States’  “Two important states, Italy and  France , did indeed put
their weight yesterday behind the candidate Draghi;
notwithstanding, there will be no appointment to the ECB
presidency without German approval,” German government
spokesman Steffen Seibert told reporters today in Berlin.  The Austrian government said it had no comment.  Portugal  backs Draghi for the ECB’s top job, Paula
Mascarenhas, a spokeswoman for Portugal’s Foreign Affairs
Ministry, said today in a telephone interview.  In a sign he understands the need to meet the skepticism
head on, Draghi has appealed to Germany’s inflation-fighting
mindset. He said on April 13 that monetary policy was still
“accommodative” even after the ECB raised its benchmark rate
this month.  In February, he told newspaper Frankfurter Allgemeine
Zeitung that Germany is an example for other nations, calling
for tougher sanctions for budget-rule breaches and vowing to
ensure price stability.  Draghi’s Positioning  “Draghi has positioned himself as a hawk, and I’m sure
that Merkel’s advisers have given her the green light that he’s
acceptable,” Jabko said.  That Draghi comes from a country that was Europe’s biggest
debtor until it was passed by  Greece  may make him a unifying
chance, said  Anne-Marie Le Gloannec , a senior research fellow on
Franco-German studies at Sciences Po in Paris.  “Draghi is a win-win candidate: he reunites the South with
the North, he can impose austerity and reassure the more
orthodox wings,” Le Gloannec said. “He is a German man in an
Italian body. Now Germany will need to do a serious work to make
him the candidate to show his competence, and that’s  Angela
Merkel ’s work.”  The campaign to pick Trichet’s successor follows Merkel’s
initial reluctance to aid Greece and her refusal to join allied
military efforts in  Libya , moves that may have deepened
resentment against Germany and diminished her political capital.  German Credibility  “Germany has much less credibility than many there may
think,” Philippe Moreau-Defarges, a researcher at the Paris-
based French Institute of International Affairs, said by
telephone. “Their behavior concerning Greece and Libya has
grated on a lot of nerves. Plus, German banks are in very deep
in Greece, so there’s a level of hypocrisy that’s not lost on
the rest of Europe.”  Draghi, a Massachusetts Institute of Technology-trained
economist, has worked at the  World Bank  and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  He is also chairman of the Financial Stability Board, which
was established by the Group of 20 nations in 2009 to oversee
development of standards to strengthen global regulation.  Other candidates include Yves Mersch of Luxembourg, Erkki Liikanen of Finland and Nout Wellink of the Netherlands. Klaus Regling, a German who runs the bailout facility, has never been
a central banker.  Small Countries  Picking Mersch, Liikanen or Wellink would leave small
countries with three of the six seats on the ECB’s Executive
Board and no room for France when Trichet leaves. The selection
of Draghi would likely mean the exit of board member and fellow
Italian Lorenzo Bini Smaghi, opening a slot for France.  Berlusconi agreed to support a French nominee for the
Executive Board, Sarkozy said. Possible candidates include
Xavier Musca, Sarkozy’s chief of staff, and Jean-Philippe Cotis,
head of France’s statistics agency.  Merkel may be ready to engage in the political horse-
trading that goes with European Union personnel appointments,
for example by demanding tougher terms on bailout policies or on
ensuring that Regling remains in charge of the permanent rescue
mechanism that takes effect in 2013.  “The question is whether she’ll demand some compensation
deal or whether she’ll intervene so that there can be a
candidate from a northern country,” said Le Gloannec.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Rome at  hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi at   gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  