-- 
Sarkozy Backs Italy’s Draghi to Succeed Trichet at European Central Bank

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-04-26T12:58:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/sarkozy-backs-italy-s-draghi-as-trichet-successor-at-ecb-helm.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
threw his support behind Bank of Italy Governor  Mario Draghi  to
succeed Jean-Claude Trichet at the helm of the  European Central
Bank , calling him a “man of quality.”  Backing from Sarkozy follows signals from German officials
that Draghi, 63, is their preferred banker, adding momentum to a
campaign that has been pushed by Italian leaders.  “France will be very happy to support an Italian for the
presidency of the ECB,” Sarkozy said at a briefing with Italian
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  in Rome today. “I know Mario
Draghi well. We support him not because he is Italian but
because he is a man of quality. And it would be a very good
signal for  Italy , which may have doubts about its role and
position within Europe.”  The key decision maker, German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ,
has yet to indicate a preference. Her aides have said Germany,
Europe’s biggest economy, no longer insists on a German to
succeed Trichet, 68, at the Frankfurt-based ECB.  With a late-June deadline looming, the appointment may
become entangled in German opposition to bailouts. As Portugal’s
imminent rescue pushes the cost of aiding euro states past 250
billion euros ($361 billion), Merkel may face domestic criticism
for choosing a southern European from a country with a legacy of
inflation and debt.  “It looks like a done deal,” said  Carsten Brzeski , senior
economist at ING Group in Brussels. “The German government now
needs to figure out how to sell an Italian candidate to the
public.”  Draghi’s Emergence  Draghi emerged as a front-runner after  Germany ’s Axel Weber
withdrew from the race in February. Now, German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  sees him as the candidate likeliest to be
appointed as the ECB’s next chief, people close to him say.
Trichet’s non-renewable eight-year term ends Oct. 31.  German Deputy Foreign Minister Werner Hoyer, who manages
European affairs, said in an April 15 interview that Draghi
would make a “very good” ECB president and uphold Germany’s
goal of a stable euro.  Other candidates include Yves Mersch of Luxembourg, Erkki Liikanen of Finland and Nout Wellink of the Netherlands. Klaus Regling, a German who runs the bailout facility, has never been
a central banker.  Picking Mersch, Liikanen or Wellink would leave small
countries with three of the six seats on the ECB’s Executive
Board and no room for France when Trichet leaves. The selection
of Draghi would likely mean the exit of board member and fellow
Italian Lorenzo Bini Smaghi, opening a slot for France.  French Board Seat  Berlusconi agreed to support a French candidate for the
Executive Board, Sarkozy said. Possible candidates include
Sarkozy Chief of Staff aide Xavier Musca and Jean-Philippe Cotis, head of France’s statistics agency.  Draghi, a Massachusetts Institute of Technology-trained
economist, has worked at the World Bank and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  He is also chairman of the Financial Stability Board, which
was established by the Group of 20 nations in 2009 to oversee
development of standards to strengthen global regulation.  In a sign he understands the need to meet the skepticism
head on, Draghi has been appealing to the German inflation-
fighting mindset. He said April 13 that monetary policy is still
“accommodative” even after the ECB raised its benchmark rate
this month.  In February, he told newspaper Frankfurter Allgemeine
Zeitung that Germany is an example for other nations, calling
for tougher sanctions for budget-rule breaches and vowing to
ensure  price stability .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in  Rome  at  hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  