-- 
Saskatchewan Approves $1.3 Billion Project to Test Carbon Capture Systems

-- B y   J e r e m y   V a n   L o o n
-- 
2011-04-26T18:51:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/saskatchewan-approves-1-3-billion-project-to-test-carbon-capture-systems.html
The Canadian province of
Saskatchewan has approved a C$1.24 billion ($1.3 billion)  carbon
capture  and storage project to test the effectiveness of the
technology at keeping the gas out of the atmosphere.  Saskatchewan Power Corp. will revamp the coal-burning
Boundary Dam Power Station with new equipment to extract one
million tons of CO2 annually, the state-owned utility said today
in a  statement .  SNC-Lavalin Group Inc. (SNC) ,  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  and  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s Cansolv division will contribute engineering
and equipment for the project.  Countries from China to the U.S. are looking for ways to
reduce the environmental impact of burning coal for heat and
power to take advantage of plentiful supplies of the fossil
fuel. Canada is spending $4.9 billion on carbon capture
research, compared with $5.1 billion in the U.S., according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Coal demand is projected to increase 20 percent from 2008
to 2020, according to the International Energy Agency.  The Saskatchewan project will “help to address  climate
change  while ensuring that we can continue to use coal as an
energy source for many years to come,” Rob Norris, the
provincial minister responsible for innovation and Saskatchewan
Power Corp., said in the statement.  Reducing emissions by 1 million tons annually is the
equivalent of taking 250,000 cars off roads in the western
Canadian province, SaskPower said. Some of the captured gas will
be pumped into aging oil wells to help increase production, the
company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  