-- 
Saudi Arabia Uncomfortable With Crude Oil Price, Aramco's Al-Falih Says

-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 
2011-04-26T08:22:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/saudi-arabia-not-comfortable-with-price-of-oil-aramco-s-al-falih-says.html
Saudi Arabia , the world’s largest
oil exporter, is “not comfortable” with the current crude
price and is concerned about its effect on global economic
growth, the head of the state oil company said.  Saudi Arabia is committed to keeping aside a “sizable
cushion” of 3 million to 4 million barrels a day of idle
production capacity to stabilize the market, Khalid al-Falih,
chief executive officer of Saudi Arabian Oil Co., said today in
 Seoul . The kingdom pumped 9 million barrels a day last month,
the most since October 2008, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of producers and analysts.  “We are not comfortable with oil prices where they are
today,” al-Falih said. “We’re concerned about the impact it
could have on the global economic growth.”  Oil has rallied 32 percent in  New York  since protests
against Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  began Feb. 15, cutting the
country’s oil production and fueling speculation Middle East
supplies will be disrupted. The conflict in the North African
nation is the bloodiest in a series of uprisings that has
unseated the presidents of Tunisia and  Egypt  and spread to Syria
and Yemen. Futures yesterday traded at $113.48 a barrel, the
highest since Sept. 22, 2008.  Saudi Arabia raised its crude output to offset lost
production in  Libya  and has developed two new blends to help
meet the demand of European refiners that use Libyan grades.
Both countries are part of the 12-member  Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries , which supplies about 40 percent
of the world’s oil.  Oil consumers needn’t be concerned by high crude prices
because spare capacity can “moderate” the market, said al-
Falih, who is in  South Korea  for a board meeting this week.  Saudi Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi “has made it clear that
the kingdom will continue to act in support of oil market
stability,” al-Falih said. The minister on April 19 described
the recent gains in prices as “unjustified.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net 
-0- Apr/26/ :22 GMT 