-- 
Scene Last Night: Bill Cosby, Peter Kraus Fete Harlem Art Group

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-04-26T15:15:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/scene-last-night-bill-cosby-peter-kraus-fete-revived-harlem-arts-school.html
In the front parlor of the Harlem
townhouse where Wes Anderson filmed “The Royal Tenenbaums,”
kids performed in turquoise T-shirts.  “You are so beautiful to me,” sang the children of the
 Harlem School of the Arts  choir, ages 6 to 10, before tweaking
the lyrics: “Music is wonderful, to me.”  They were preaching to the choir last night at a party for
the school’s new executive director, Yvette L. Campbell, and its
new and growing board, led by Charles J. Hamilton Jr., a senior
counsel at Windels Marx Lane & Mittendorf LLP.  The event gathered about 50 guests in the townhouse, which
is home to the family of private-equity executive Willie E. Woods, president of ICV Partners LLC, and art dealer Lana Woods.  Their guests included comedian  Bill Cosby  and  Peter Kraus ,
chairman and chief executive of AllianceBernstein LP. Red
Rooster catered the affair, serving short-rib sliders, cornbread
with tomato chutney, and red velvet cupcakes.  The school, founded in 1964, was in dire financial straits
a year ago and shut its doors. The hiatus lasted only three
weeks. Private and government donors stepped in and took over,
to clean up and relaunch.  This semester 600 students are enrolled. The 37,000-square-
foot school building has space for 1,500.  “Our biggest challenge was morale,” Hamilton said in the
Woods’s foyer.  Classes for Kids, Adults  Campbell, the new executive director, is a former dancer
who created the Ailey Extension, a program of classes for the
public that brings in $2 million in earned revenue for the  Alvin
Ailey American Dance Theater .  Now she is entrenched in regular budgeting, new staffing,
and the search for revenue. She plans to welcome preschool
children in the morning and offer classes for adults in the
evening.  Cosby got involved at the urging of one of the new board
members,  Mary Schmidt Campbell , the dean of New York
University’s Tisch School of the Arts and not related to Yvette
Campbell. The comedian said he’d personally vetted the new
executive director.  “I took her up and down and all around,” Cosby said. He
was satisfied only when he determined that Campbell “knows how
to fire people.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 