-- 
Scor Agrees to Buy Aegon Transamerica Re for $912.5 Million

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 
2011-04-26T16:08:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/scor-agrees-to-buy-aegon-s-transamerica-reinsurance-unit-for-913-million.html
Scor SE (SCR)  agreed to buy the mortality
risk reinsurance business of  Aegon NV (AGN) ’s Transamerica unit for
$912.5 million to become the second-largest U.S. life reinsurer.  The deal will be financed from Scor’s own funds and “a
potential limited debt issuance” of about 200 million euros
($291 million), the Paris-based company said today.  Scor Chief Executive Officer Denis Kessler is seeking to
expand the largest French reinsurer’s life business, which helps
insurers pool their risks and accounted for about 40 percent of
2010 operating profit. Kessler agreed in February to sell the
company’s U.S. fixed-annuity unit to free up capital for
“core” life-reinsurance operations.  The deal is “positive” for Scor and will increase life
premiums by 50 percent,  Pierre Flabbee , an analyst at Kepler
Capital Markets, said in a note. “It will partly rebalance life
and non-life contribution inside Scor’s P&L.”  Scor rose 2 percent to 19.80 euros in Paris trading and
Aegon gained 3.3 percent to 5.38 euros, giving the Dutch insurer
a market value of 10.3 billion euros.  Aegon will keep about half the reinsurance reserve
financing obligations, helping Scor to finance the deal,
according to  Albert Ploegh , an Amsterdam-based analyst at ING
Groep NV.  ‘Major Rebalancing’  “We get a lot of support from the seller for the next 15
years which was an integral part of the transaction,” Kessler
said on a conference call. “It is a major rebalancing of the
life portfolio between  Europe  on one side and the U.S. on the
other.”  Annual growth of the combined portfolio of Scor Global Life
U.S. and Transamerica Re may reach an above-industry average of
about 6 percent over the next three years, Gilles Meyer, who
heads Scor’s life business, said on a call.  The transaction will release $500 million of capital for
Aegon, the Dutch insurer said, giving the deal a total post-tax
value of $1.4 billion. That compares with a book value of $1.7
billion.  Aegon will use the proceeds to help pay back the remainder
of state aid it received from the Netherlands before the end of
June. The Hague-based insurer still has to repay 750 million
euros, excluding a 50 percent premium, of the 3 billion euros of
aid it received.  “Quite a smart financial transaction,” said Cor Kluis, a
Utrecht-based analyst at Rabo Securities with a buy rating on
Aegon shares. “Aegon is government capital clean after this
transaction, the first Benelux financial that fully paid back
the government.”  Resuming Dividends  That will allow Aegon to resume paying dividends and making
acquisitions as European Union-imposed bailout conditions are
lifted.  Aegon will transfer $1.8 billion of liabilities and
corresponding assets in cash and securities to Scor, the French
company said. Half of the portfolio is in cash and U.S.
treasuries with the remainder in mainly investment grade
corporate bonds, said Francois de Varenne, head of Scor Global
Investments.  Aegon doesn’t have to take the book loss immediately
because the transaction is structured as a number of reinsurance
deals, ING’s Ploegh said. Aegon said the transaction will result
in annual amortization of prepaid costs of reinsurance of about
$40 million over 15 years.  Aegon, which acquired Transamerica Re when it purchased San
Francisco-based Transamerica Corp. for $10.8 billion in 1999,
will retain “select blocks of business” with a book value of
$400 million, consisting mainly of variable annuity guarantee
businesses, it said.  Scor was advised by BNP Paribas and Citigroup Inc. while
Bank of America Merrill Lynch assisted Aegon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  