-- 
Shakespeare Mimic Conjures Entire Play for Clever Novel: Review

-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 
2011-04-26T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/shakespeare-mimic-conjures-entire-play-inside-clever-novel-craig-seligman.html
“ The Tragedy of Arthur ” is a
novel about a newly discovered Shakespeare play of the same
name. The author is  Arthur Phillips , which is also the name
of both the book’s narrator and his father, a convicted
forger who may be the secret author of the play.  It’s complicated, but it isn’t a tragedy. The modern-
day story, at least, is closer to farce, though the
laughter it elicits (and Phillips has a sense of humor
that, like everything else about him as a writer, is on
overdrive) is the kind that sticks in your throat.  The elder Arthur spends most of his time in prison;
much of the plot hinges on the son’s fury and mortification
at his father’s crimes and his simultaneous tortured need
for his father’s love.  The text of the novel forms a 256-page introduction
(it’s titled “Introduction”) to the text of the play, and
Phillips has actually gone to the trouble of writing a
five-act history play in the style of early Shakespeare. It
comes with scholarly apparatus (synopsis, notes) and is
replete with the kind of linguistic difficulties familiar
to readers of Renaissance poetry:  “More dread have I of April rain and wind / Than of
that flea-bit tench, that ape, that patch, / The jordan-
faced and stinking Pictish scroyle.”  ‘Pale Fire’  The novel rings (and rings and rings) with echoes of
the play, of the Shakespeare canon and of Shakespeare’s
life. As a feat of literary prestidigitation, its obvious
point of reference is Vladimir Nabokov’s “ Pale Fire ,” a
virtuoso entertainment that begins with a long poem of the
same name written in the style of Robert Frost, followed by
several hundred pages of critical exegesis that are
actually a novel in disguise.  But the “Introduction” to “The Tragedy of Arthur”
never feels anything like a real introduction, and asking
readers to plow through five long acts of ersatz
Shakespeare is a lot more presumptuous that asking them to
digest 500 lines of ersatz Frost.  I doubt that many of the novel’s readers will make it
all the way through the play, nor can I say I really
enjoyed the slog myself. (It would have helped if it were
funny.)  You can’t fail to be a little awed -- and yet every
time I put the novel down I found it hard to pick back up.
Why? For one thing, Phillips gets into emotional territory
between parents and children that will cause anyone who
didn’t grow up an orphan to flinch. That it made me so
queasy may be a tribute to the author’s dexterity, but
still.  Not Very Tragic  It might also have helped a novel that’s a fantasia on
Shakespearean themes to be more Shakespearean. Arthur
Phillips the narrator is neither tragic nor heroic; he has
none of the Shakespearean darkness or depth. Instead he’s a
fairly crummy representative of ordinary humanity who
behaves in a nauseatingly selfish and unforgivable way
toward the twin sister he adores.  Forgiveness is the great Shakespearean theme. When the
malefactors in “ Measure for Measure ” or “ The Tempest ” are
forgiven, it’s not because they deserve it -- which is the
point. Nobody deserves it.  Betrayal is a type of behavior Shakespeare recognized
as typical of the human condition, and he bestows
forgiveness as a kind of unearned grace. The idea of
actually earning it, which is central to “The Tragedy of
Arthur” -- that belongs to a different playwright, a
different universe.  “The Tragedy of Arthur” is published by  Random House 
(368 pages, $26). To buy this book in  North America , click
 here .  (Craig Seligman is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Craig Seligman  at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 