-- 
Shell Says Slow U.S. Drill Permits in Alaska ‘Irresponsible’

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-04-26T20:05:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/shell-says-slow-u-s-drill-permits-in-alaska-irresponsible-1-.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  is being
blocked from offshore oil and gas exploration in Alaska by the
“irresponsible” delays of federal regulators, said the
company’s U.S. president,  Marvin Odum .  Shell, based in  The Hague , has spent more than $2 billion
for hundreds of drilling leases in Alaska since 2005, and has
invested $1.5 billion on an exploration program that exceeds
current regulatory requirements, Odum said.  “Despite our most intense efforts, we have yet to drill a
single well,” Odum said today at a conference in Washington.  Shell’s biggest impediment has been obtaining an air permit
from the Environmental Protection Agency for temporary
exploration operations off the Alaska coast, Odum said.  “The delay is frustrating and disappointing and it
undermines confidence in the American regulatory system,” he
said. “Beyond that, you might call it irresponsible. Thousands
of men and women were counting on those jobs, local businesses
were counting on the revenue and communities were counting on
the tax boost.”  Shell delayed its drilling campaign in Alaska and put off
plans to spend as much as $150 million in the region until 2012,
citing regulatory delays, according to a Feb. 3 statement.
Alaska may hold the second-biggest U.S. oil and gas reserves
after the  Gulf of Mexico , according to government estimates.  Odum said Shell supports appropriate new offshore drilling
regulations after the 2010 BP Plc oil spill in the Gulf. The
U.S. must restore projects in the Gulf and open areas of the
eastern Gulf and Alaska for exploration, he said.  Shell Deep-Water Permit  Last month, Shell won a U.S. permit to drill a deep-water
well in the Gulf where exploration was banned after the BP
blowout a year ago.  “That’s encouraging and I’m cautiously optimistic that
marks a turning point in the Gulf,” Odum said today. Shell is
the second-largest producer of crude from U.S. Gulf wells.  The regulatory status in Alaska is “much different,” he
said. Odum said he’s hopeful the delay will be resolved and he
appreciates EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson looking at the issue.  Several federal agencies have worked with Shell to help the
company in  Alaska , including the EPA, which issued a permit on
March 31, 2010, according to a statement.  “That permit was subsequently appealed by outside groups,
including local Alaskan stakeholders, and overturned by the
independent Environmental Appeals Board,” according to the
statement. “EPA immediately appealed for reconsideration and we
have worked with Shell to address the concerns.”  ‘Preferred Fuel’  Odum said Shell, which has invested more than $17 billion
in North American natural gas production and development, next
year will produce more gas than oil.  “It’s worth pursuing and it will be a preferred fuel,” he
said.  The U.S. has enough untapped gas to last a century, though
some states and environmentalists are concerned that hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, in which a chemical mix is injected
into shale rock to free gas will taint drinking water.  Reports challenging the safety of fracking are “at best
incomplete and at worst irresponsible,” Odum said. “Make no
mistake, it can be done without harming the environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in  Washington  at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  