-- 
Singapore Production Growth Accelerates as Drug, Electronics Output Climbs

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-04-26T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/singapore-production-growth-accelerates-as-drug-electronics-output-climbs.html
Singapore ’s industrial output grew
at the fastest pace in four months as manufacturers produced
more pharmaceuticals and computer parts, bolstering an economic
expansion that has allowed the central bank to tighten policy.  Manufacturing, which accounts for about a quarter of the
economy, climbed 22 percent in March from a year earlier after a
revised 4.7 percent increase in February, the  Economic
Development Board  said in a statement today. The median estimate
of 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a 23.8
percent gain.  Manufacturing and services, aided by rising exports, drove
a strengthening in Singapore’s economy last quarter and the
government predicts overseas shipments may rise as much as 10
percent this year.  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and Micron Technology Inc. opened
a $3 billion factory in Singapore this month and said the
venture will reach full production later this year.  “Production remains on a moderate upward trajectory,
supported by non-oil domestic exports,”  David Cohen , a
Singapore-based economist at Action Economics, said before the
report.  Singapore’s dollar has risen to records after the central
bank said April 14 it would allow further appreciation in its
third tightening of monetary policy in a year. The currency
traded at S$1.2375 against the  U.S. dollar  as of 12:55 p.m.
local time today. The island uses the  exchange rate  as its main
tool to manage inflation.  Production in the first quarter rose 13.1 percent, less
than the government’s April 14 preliminary estimate of 13.9
percent.  Industrial production advanced a seasonally adjusted 22
percent in March from February, when it dropped 2 percent from
the previous month, today’s report showed.  Electronics production increased 6.9 percent from a year
earlier after rising a revised 9 percent in February.
Pharmaceutical output surged 60.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  