-- 
Sinopec Boosts Loan Agreement to Raise $5 Billion for Overseas Expansion

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-26T03:53:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/sinopec-said-to-agree-to-borrow-5-billion-in-loans-for-overseas-strategy.html
China Petrochemical Corp.,  Asia ’s
biggest refiner, agreed to borrow $5 billion, an increase of
$1.2 billion from its original plan, to fund overseas
acquisitions, according to a person familiar with the matter.  The five-year term loans were offered to banks with
interest and fee payments, the so-called top level all-in
pricing, of 127 basis points more than the London interbank
offered rate, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the details are private. China Petrochemical originally
sought loans of $3.8 billion at the same price, according to two
people familiar with the matter on April 18.  Huang Wensheng , a spokesman for Sinopec Group, as the
refiner is known, declined to comment on the loan size.
“Borrowing is part of the company’s normal operation,” he said
by phone today. “It’s natural that the company is boosting
capital for its overseas business.”  Sinopec Group is expanding abroad as the government’s fuel-
price controls erode profit in its home market. Overseas assets
rose to 31 percent of the total last year and international
sales climbed to 27 percent, Huang said, without giving
comparative numbers.  The company loses about $20 for every barrel of crude oil
processed, the Economic Observer reported today.  China  controls
fuel tariffs to curb consumer price inflation, which was 5.4
percent last month, the highest since 2008.  The loan will also be used to refinance debt associated
with the group’s purchase of a stake in Syncrude Canada Ltd.
last year, the person familiar with the group’s loan said today.  Sinopec Group on April 21 agreed to buy a 15 percent stake
and liquefied natural gas in a venture with ConocoPhillips and
Origin Energy Ltd. in  Australia ’s largest export deal for the
fuel. In December it agreed to purchase Occidental Petroleum
Corp.’s Argentine oil and gas unit for $2.45 billion.  On April 9, China appointed Fu Chengyu to the new position
of chairman at Sinopec Group. Fu previously headed Cnooc Ltd.,
where he presided over a fivefold increase in annual profit
since 2003.  To contact the reporter on this story:  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  