-- 
PlayStation Hackers May Have Stolen Data on 75 Million Users, Sony Says

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   P a v e l   A l p e y e v
-- 
2011-04-27T10:30:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/sony-says-network-hackers-may-have-stolen-users-personal-data.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  warned its 77 million
PlayStation Network and Qriocity online service customers that
their credit-card data, billing addresses and other personal
information may have been stolen by a hacker.  “While there is no evidence at this time that credit-card
data was taken, we cannot rule out the possibility,” Patrick Seybold, a Sony spokesman, said on the company  blog  page.  The
hacker obtained user-provided names, e-mail addresses, birth
dates, log-in information and purchase history, Seybold said.  The Sony intrusion follows a March 30 breach at Alliance
Data System Corp.’s  Epsilon Data Management LLC , which resulted
in the theft of customer data at banks including Citigroup Inc.
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , as well as retailers Best Buy Co. and
 Walgreen Co. (WAG)   Sony fell 2 percent to 2,366 yen at the close of trading in
 Tokyo  today, slumping for a fourth consecutive day. The
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 1.4 percent.  The company reported the intrusion to the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  office in  San Diego  that specializes in
cybercrime, the New York Times said on its  website . Darrell
Foxworth, an FBI special agent in San Diego, said he can neither
confirm nor deny whether there is an investigation.  Resume Within a Week  The PlayStation Network, which provides access to online
games, movies and TV shows, was attacked from April 17 to April
19. Sony had combined PlayStation Network customer data with
Qriocity, which offers movies or music in 11 nations on Web-
connected Bravia TVs and Blu-ray players. That service also was
compromised, Sony said.  Sony shut down both services April 20. Some features were
expected to be restored within a week, Seybold said. The company
recommends that people change their passwords and user IDs when
service is restored and to do the same elsewhere if they reuse
the same login data with other businesses.  “The PSN service troubles have certainly come at an
inopportune moment in light of the firm’s announcement on 26
April of a move into tablets as part of efforts to beef up
network services,” Koki Shiraishi, a Tokyo-based analyst at
Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd., wrote in a report today.  Blumenthal Letter  The six-day delay in notifying customers of the intrusion
is “troubling,” U.S. Senator  Richard Blumenthal , a Democrat
from  Connecticut , told Sony Computer Entertainment President
Jack Tretton in a  letter  dated April 26.  “PlayStation Network users should be provided with
financial data security services, including free access to
credit reporting services, for two years, the costs of which
should be borne by Sony,” wrote Blumenthal, a former
Connecticut attorney general.  Sony also should pay for insurance to protect affected
users from  identity theft , he said.  Seybold didn’t immediately return a phone call and e-mail
message seeking comment on the letter.  The Tokyo-based company has hired a security firm to
conduct a complete investigation into the intrusion and is
rebuilding the system to offer more protection, Seybold said in
the blog posting.  Citigroup, JPMorgan,  US Bancorp (USB) , Best Buy, Walgreen, New
York & Co. and at least 14 others reported their customers’ data
was stolen in the March 30 breach at Epsilon. The Dallas-based
provider of e-mail marketing services says it sends out more
than 40 billion e-mails a year on behalf of more than 600
companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pavel Alpeyev in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net ;
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  