-- 
Sony Unveils Tablet PCs, Joins Samsung in Pursuit of IPad

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-04-26T09:59:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/sony-unveils-tablet-pcs-joins-samsung-motorola-in-pursuit-of-apple-ipad.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  introduced its first
tablet computers, following Samsung Electronics Co. and Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc. in their pursuit of Apple Inc., a year
after the iPad spurred a surge in demand for the devices.  The maker of Vaio laptops will use  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
operating system for the tablets, Kunimasa Suzuki, Sony’s head
of personal computers, said in  Tokyo  today. The models, whose
prices weren’t disclosed, would go on sale in autumn, the
company said in a statement.  Sony is last among the world’s top 10 laptop makers to
unveil tablet plans, aiming to capitalize on surging demand for
a product category that research firm  Strategy Analytics 
forecasts will grow to $49 billion by 2015. The late entry may
undermine the company’s ability to challenge Samsung’s Galaxy
Tab or the iPad, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  “Sony should have entered at least when Samsung introduced
its first tablet computers,” said Yasuo Nakane, a Tokyo-based
analyst at Deutsche Bank. “They spent too much time on their
own features. A quick entry like Samsung was required and I
don’t think Sony can catch Samsung this year.”  Sony’s S1 model will feature a 9.4-inch liquid-crystal
display, as well as front and rear cameras. The S2 laptop-shaped
model will have dual 5.5-inch screens and feature cameras, the
company said.  Apple’s iPad  has a 9.7-inch screen.  ‘IPad Killer’  “They have got an opportunity, they really need to
execute,”  Jay Defibaugh , an analyst at MF Global FXA
Securities in Tokyo, said about Sony. “I would definitely not
call it an iPad-killer. There’s nothing out there that is an
iPad-killer right now.  The Japanese electronics maker aims to become the largest
manufacturer of tablets that run on Android software by 2012,
Suzuki said. Sony will try to introduce a tablet that uses
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows software by the yearend, he said.  Sony, which expects the global tablet-computer market to
reach annual sales of between 50 million and 60 million units
this year, and between 70 million and 80 million next year, is
also considering developing a three-dimensional model, he said.  Suzuki said Sony isn’t late into the market.  “Demand for tablets is still small,” Suzuki told
reporters. “We aim to attract consumers out there, who haven’t
purchased one.”  Cameras, Processor  The latest version of the iPad went on sale in the U.S. on
March 11, equipped with cameras and a more powerful processor,
starting at $499. Apple led the market by selling a total of
14.8 million iPads through December, generating $9.6 billion in
sales since its introduction in April last year. Samsung, maker
of the Galaxy Tab, ranks second behind Apple.  Tablet sales surged to more than 10.3 million units last
year from 90,000 in 2009, according to the  Consumer Electronics
Association . That rate of adoption tops those of game consoles
and smartphones, according to the Arlington, Virginia-based
trade organization.  Apple will likely maintain its dominance in the tablet
market until 2012 because of advantages in marketing, content
and pricing, research firm IHS ISuppli said earlier this month.
Shipments of other media tablets will likely reach 111 million
units in 2013, overtaking the estimated 81 million iPad sales,
according to the researcher.  Samsung, Sony’s bigger rival in televisions, unveiled a new
tablet running the latest version of Android software in
February.  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  and  Verizon Wireless  earlier this month
cut the price of the Samsung’s Galaxy Tab tablet computer for
the second time this year, signaling more competition for  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad. The devices now cost $199.99 with a two-year
wireless-service contract, according to the carriers.  In January, Sony said it aims to win second position in the
market for tablet devices next year.  Last year, Sony was the world’s ninth-largest maker of
 laptop computers , excluding tablets, with a 4.2 percent share of
the market, according to Bryan Ma, Singapore-based analyst at
IDC. Apple ranked eighth with a 4.9 percent share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 