-- 
South Korea’s Economic Growth Accelerates, Adding Pressure to Raise Rates

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-04-27T06:45:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/south-korea-s-economic-growth-accelerates-adding-to-inflationary-pressure.html
South  Korea ’s economic growth
accelerated in the first quarter, bolstering the case for
another interest-rate increase and driving the won to the
strongest close since 2008.  Gross domestic product rose 1.4 percent from the previous
quarter, when it advanced 0.5 percent, the Bank of Korea said in
Seoul today. The median estimate of 10 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey was for a 1.5 percent gain. The economy grew 4.2
percent from a year earlier.  Rising food and energy costs and inflows of capital are
impeding President  Lee Myung Bak ’s “war” on inflation, with
price increases breaching the central bank’s 4 percent target
each month this year. Governor Kim Choong Soo’s policy board
meets May 13 to decide whether to raise rates for the third time
this year, while officials also need to gauge the risk that a
stronger currency will hamper exporters such as Samsung
Electronics Co.  “Today’s GDP figures will likely give the central bank
more confidence that another rate hike, possibly in May, would
not derail the solid economic growth,” said Kim Dong Whan, a
fixed-income analyst at HI Investment & Securities Co. in  Seoul .
“Given the strengthening economy, the won may test a level of
1,050 per dollar but the government will likely intervene to cap
the gains.”  ‘Solid’ Growth  The won rose 0.6 percent to 1,079.45 as of the 3 p.m. close
in Seoul, the biggest gain in a week, after a slide yesterday
triggered by the financial regulator announcing an audit of
holdings of currency derivatives at four banks. The Kospi share
index closed little changed.  Manufacturers’ confidence advanced to the highest level in
eight months, a separate central bank report showed today.  “The economy is on a solid growth track and will likely
show a steady advance in the coming months,” said Kim Young Bae,
director general at the  Bank of Korea . Export growth was
“strong” in the first quarter and private consumption
increased steadily, the central bank said in a statement.  The won has gained about 3.2 percent against the dollar in
the past month, the most of Asian currencies, aiding the
government’s efforts to tame inflation by cutting the cost of
imports. Exports jumped 30 percent to a record $48.6 billion in
March and probably rose 24 percent in April, according to the
median forecast of eight economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Interest-Rate Pause  The central bank last month boosted the benchmark seven-day
repurchase rate to 3 percent from 2.75 percent, adding to
efforts by nations across  Asia  to counter overheating risks in
the region leading global growth. Officials paused this month.  The rate needs to climb to “at least” 4 percent this year,
according to Kim Tae Joon, president of Korea Institute of
Finance,  South Korea ’s largest private financial think tank.  The government’s campaign to tame inflation has included
price controls on power and gas charges. Such measures may have
a limited impact as oil and other raw-material prices will
likely rise further and producers will try to pass on higher
costs to consumers, according to June Park, an economist at
Woori Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul.  President Lee declared “war” on prices in January, urging
policy makers to contain inflation at 3 percent to protect
families on low incomes. Price rises announced by Korean
companies highlight the challenge he faces, as the central
bank’s Kim forecasts a 3.9 percent level for the full year.  Pohang-based  Posco (005490) , the world’s third-biggest steelmaker by
output, has raised steel prices on raw-material costs and
British American Tobacco Korea has pushed up tobacco prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  