-- 
South Africa’s PIC Needs ‘Serious Convincing’ to Support Avusa's Takeover

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-04-26T15:18:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/south-africa-s-pic-needs-serious-convincing-to-support-avusa-s-takeover.html
South Africa’s Public Investment
Corp., the continent’s largest fund manager, said it believes
 Avusa Ltd. (AVU)  is worth more than the 26 rand-a-share ($3.88) being
offered by Capitau Holdings Ltd. and RMB Ventures and that it
will need “serious convincing” to support the bid.  An offer of “29 rand or better” would be fairer, the
PIC’s Chief Investment Officer Daniel Matjila said in an e-
mailed response to questions today. The PIC, which owns 9.3
percent of Avusa, is the media company’s second-largest
shareholder, according to Bloomberg data.  Buyout company Capitau and RMB Ventures, the private equity
unit of  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) , are offering 2.7 billion rand in cash
for Avusa. The PIC joins Cadiz Asset Management in calling for
an increased offer for the Johannesburg-based company, owner of
 South Africa ’s biggest newspaper.  “The offer price of 26 rand is light and does not price in
a sufficient recovery in operating margins,” Matjila wrote.
“We therefore require serious convincing for us to support”
the bid, he said.  The bidders don’t have “operational expertise” in running
media companies, and would likely reduce staff numbers to
improve profit margins, Matjila said. The transaction would
result in the delisting of Avusa from the stock exchange,
lessening the choice of media companies for investors, he said.  Avusa runs a venture with London-based  Pearson Plc (PSON)  that
publishes  Business Day , South Africa’s biggest business
newspaper, the Financial Mail magazine and Summit TV, a business
news channel. The company also publishes the Sunday Times, the
nation’s largest weekend broadsheet, the Sowetan newspaper and
operates a cinema chain, book stores and a music-recording and
distribution company.  Shares in Avusa gained 60 cents, or 2.5 percent, to 24.60
rand at the 5 p.m. close of trading in Johannesburg, extending
the advance since the start of the year to 9.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  on  at
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alastair Reed at   areed12@bloomberg.net  