-- 
Starbucks to Expand Range of Instant Beverages, Schultz Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-26T08:03:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/starbucks-working-on-portfolio-of-instant-products-schultz-says.html
Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  Chief Executive
Officer  Howard Schultz  said the coffee-shop operator is
developing a wider range of ready-made food and beverages after
it sold more Via instant coffee than expected.  Sales of Via, available at 40,000 distribution points in
six countries, have exceeded the company’s projections in every
market, Schultz said today. The company expects to introduce the
new instant products in 12 to 18 months, he said. Starbucks
began selling Via coffee in China,  Hong Kong , Macau and  Taiwan 
this month.  “The success of that demonstrates the opportunities that
we have to develop other food and beverage products,” Schultz
said in an interview in Shanghai. “Via will be a portfolio of
products.”  Starbucks is aiming to get into more people’s homes by
offering coffee through grocery stores and introducing single-
cup brewing machines. The Seattle-based coffee chain is “ahead
of plan” to open 100 U.S. stores in the fiscal year that began
in October, Schultz said.  In  Shanghai  as part of a 14-city tour to promote his book
“Onward: How Starbucks Fought for Its Life Without Losing Its
Soul,” Schultz said the company plans to double to 70 the
number of Chinese cities it operates in.  He reiterated a goal to increase the number of stores in
mainland China, which doesn’t include Hong Kong, Macau and
Taiwan, to 1,500 by 2015 from 450 now.  China Phenomenon  Starbucks dominates the Chinese coffee-shop market, with a
73.5 percent share in 2009, according to data from Euromonitor
International. Arabica coffee consumption in China will rise by
as much as 15 percent a year as the world’s biggest tea drinkers
develop a taste for lattes and cappuccinos, according to  China 
Coffee Association Beijing, an industry group.  No other place compares to China when it comes to the
“phenomenon of second-tier cities that have the number of
people, the aspiration of quality and the disposable income,”
Schultz said.  Starbucks declined 0.4 percent to $36.87 on the Nasdaq
Stock Market yesterday. The stock has risen 15 percent this
year.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chua Kong Ho at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net 
-0- Apr/26/ :03 GMT 