-- 
Stiller Sings in ‘Leaves’; Arianda Steals ‘Yesterday’: Review

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-04-26T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/stiller-sings-in-leaves-arianda-steals-yesterday-review.html
Ben Stiller  has a piquant family
connection to John Guare’s fever dream comedy, “The House of
Blue Leaves.”  His mother, Anne Meara, played a nun in the 1970 original
production and later Stiller himself played Ronnie, the AWOL
army recruit who has come home to Queens, New York to blow up
the Pope -- to make a name for himself (how familiar a theme has
that become?).  In the new revival, Stiller plays Ronnie’s father, Artie
Shaughnessy, animal tender at the Central Park Zoo and author of
the awful pop songs that open the play as Artie croaks them on
open mic night at a local bar.  It’s 1965 and the Pope has arrived to plead before the
 United Nations  for an end to the  Vietnam War  and to hold Mass at
Yankee Stadium. Queens is overrun by nuns, tourists, the lame
and the crippled, all clamoring for a view of the Popemobile as
it wends its way from the airport to  Manhattan .  Artie has his own preoccupations. His wife, Bananas, is,
well bananas. His girlfriend, Bunny, will sleep with him but
won’t cook for him until they’re married, because, as she
admits, she’s far more gifted in the latter than the former.
There are frozen Sisters on the roof and a surprise visit from
Artie’s best friend, a big shot Hollywood filmmaker and his
beautiful, deaf girlfriend.  Stiller needs more time to get a purchase on the role that
made “Frasier’s” John Mahoney a star, but he’s funny and
flummoxed and believable. Jennifer Jason Leigh is archly
convincing as Bunny, dressed a la Jackie Kennedy, in David
Cromer’s sensitive x-ray of a production.  Heart Stealer  But it’s  Edie Falco  who will steal your heart as Bananas, a
depressive who fries up Brillo pads for hamburgers and drops
down to all fours, heartbreakingly yipping and begging puppylike
for Artie’s love. Gaunt, stringy and practically translucent,
she’s so emotionally open that it may be all you can do to keep
from running onstage to wrap your arms around her.  Through July 9 at the Walter Kerr Theatre, 219 W. 48th St.
Information: +1-212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com 
Rating: ***  ‘Born Yesterday’  There are two reasons to see the revival of Garson Kanin’s
1946 comedy, “Born Yesterday,” and they’re both named Nina
Arianda. This actress, who made a splash last season in the off-
Broadway show “Venus in Fur,” just knocks it out of the ballpark
as Billie Dawn, the curvy chorus girl who landed a big one with
thuggish millionaire junk dealer Harry Brock, played by Jim Belushi.  Kanin, who wrote some of the best Tracy and Hepburn
comedies and created Billie for the peerless Judy Holliday, does
a spin on the Pygmalion legend here. Harry hires hungry
journalist Paul Verrall (Robert Sean Leonard) to waken some
brain cells in his dumb blonde girlfriend, who, cells awakened,
opens her eyes to Harry’s abuses and eventually comes into her
own.  Meanwhile, of course, Paul falls for his beautiful lump of
clay. When he admits as much to her, Billie leans into him.
“Lemme ask you,” she says. “Are you one of these talkers, or
would you be innarested in a little action?”  As delivered by Arianda with a counterintuitive sweetness,
the line isn’t merely funny, it’s revelatory. Here is a woman
who knows her heart as well as her mind. It’s practically meta-
funny.  Belushi is brutish without being engaging, and Leonard, one
of our best stage actors, is oddly pallid in Doug Hughes’s
spirited production. So go for Kanin’s savvy script and for one
truly inspired comic performance.  Through July 31 at the Cort Theatre, 138 W. 48th St.
Information: +1-212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com 
Rating: **1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 