-- 
STMicro Stock Drops as Ericsson Venture Hampers Sales Outlook

-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 
2011-04-27T08:54:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/stmicroelectronics-first-quarter-net-triples-to-170-million.html
STMicroelectronics NV (STM) ,  Europe ’s
largest chipmaker, fell the most in six weeks in Milan trading
after saying second-quarter sales will be held back by a decline
at its joint venture with Ericsson AB.  STMicro dropped as much as 45 cents, or 5.3 percent, to
7.99 euros, the biggest intraday decline since March 15, and was
down 3 percent as of 10:52 a.m. That pared the stock’s gain this
year to 4 percent, valuing the Geneva-based manufacturer at 7.45
billion euros ($10.9 billion).  The partnership with Stockholm-based Ericsson, dubbed ST-
Ericsson, makes chips for mobile phones. The venture has been
struggling to turn around after it was formed in 2008 to
increase ties with handset makers and cut research costs. The
chipmaker is completing a shift to a new lineup targeting
smartphone and tablet markets.  “Second-quarter guidance is below expectations due to
wireless,” Adrien Bommelaer, an analyst at Matrix Corporate
Capital LLP, said today in a report to clients. “This weakness
reflects lower-than-expected sales translating into lower
margins at ST-Ericsson.”  STMicro’s revenue in the current quarter may fall by as
much as 2 percent or increase by as much as 5 percent from
first-quarter figures, “taking into account ST-Ericsson’s
anticipated sequential net sales decline,” the manufacturer
said yesterday in a statement.  Margin Outlook  STMicro forecast that second-quarter sales will amount to
$2.48 billion to $2.66 billion. Analysts were predicting revenue
of $2.7 billion, according the average of 10 estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. The gross margin this quarter is expected to be
about 38.7 percent of sales, plus or minus 1 percentage point,
the company said.  “Guidance for the second quarter is a little bit short
mainly due to ST-Ericsson,” Chief Executive Officer  Carlo Bozotti  said in a Bloomberg Television interview. The March 11
earthquake in  Japan  “is having an effect on the supply chain,”
and “there will be better visibility in a quarter from now.”  The ST-Ericsson venture said in a separate statement that
first-quarter sales fell to $444 million from $577 million in
the fourth quarter of 2010. An “ongoing decline” in older-
model semiconductors will cause net sales in the current three-
month period to fall from first-quarter figures, it said.  “We are disappointed that sales will fall further in Q2,
given we were expecting new products to more than offset the
decline in legacy products,” Odon de Laporte, an analyst at
Cheuvreux, said today in a report to investors.  Profit Triples  STMicroelectronics’ first-quarter profit tripled to $170
million from $57 million a year earlier, helped by gains from
its automotive applications and microelectromechanical systems.
Sales rose 9 percent to $2.54 billion. Profit had been predicted
at $157 million on sales of $2.58 billion, according to analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s difficult to give a new formal indication” on the
global chip market, Bozotti said on a conference call. “There
is now a risk that it’s going to be lower” than the 5 percent
to 8 percent industrywide growth predicted in January  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the world’s largest maker of mobile phones and
STMicroelectronics’ biggest customer, reported a 1.4 percent
decline in first-quarter profit on April 21 and forecast that
operating margins at the handset business will fall this
quarter. Nokia  accounted for  13.9 percent of STMicroelectronics’
net revenue last year.  Bozotti said that, even as the impact of the Japan
earthquake in March “has been manageable from ST’s
perspective” the company remains “vigilant and prepared to
adjust to and support any shifts in demand or changes to the
semiconductor supply-chain in the near-term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  