-- 
Storms Snarl U.S. Air Traffic, Send Plane Sliding Off Runway

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-04-26T21:52:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/storms-snarl-air-traffic-in-northeast-midwest-faa-reports.html
Thunderstorms, wind and low clouds
tied up air traffic at  seven airports  in the U.S. Northeast and
Midwest and sent a  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  plane sliding off a
runway in Chicago.  No one was injured when Flight 1919, a Boeing Co. 737-700,
ran off the tarmac in heavy rain at Midway Airport at about 1:30
p.m. local time, Whitney Eichinger, a Southwest spokeswoman,
said in an e-mail. The plane carried a crew of five and 139
passengers, including five children young enough to be sitting
on their parents’ laps. Those children weren’t counted in an
earlier statement.  The National Transportation Safety Board said it was
investigating. In a statement, the NTSB said it would interview
the flight crew and review data from on-board voice and data
recorders and air traffic controllers’ communications.  At least 383 flights were canceled today, according to
 FlightAware  tracking data.  Severe thunderstorm warnings and watches extended from
upstate  New York  along the Appalachian Mountains to North
Carolina. Tornado watches were issued for parts of Michigan,
Illinois, Indiana and Ohio.  Golf ball-sized hail and winds of at least 60 mph were
reported as thunderstorms moved across Pennsylvania and New
York, according to the National Weather Service. Weather service
radar detected weak rotation, a sign a tornado may be
developing, in some of the storms.  Tornado Warnings  Tornado warnings, meaning radar has picked up strong
rotation, have been issued for just north of Utica, New York,
and south of Arkadelphia,  Arkansas . Tornadoes have been spotted
south of Dallas and in southern  Kentucky , according to the
weather service.  Tornado watches, meaning the storms may form, were also
issued from northern  Texas  to western  Tennessee , according to
the weather service. At least 10 people were killed by tornadoes
and severe storms in Arkansas yesterday, the  Associated Press 
reported at 5:22 p.m. New York time.  Some flights to New York’s LaGuardia and to Newark and
Teterboro,  New Jersey , were being held today because of
thunderstorms in their paths, according to the Federal Aviation
Administration.  The New York area’s three airports represent the largest
aviation market in the U.S., with 103.5 million passengers last
year, according to the Port Authority of New York & New Jersey,
which operates Kennedy, LaGuardia and Newark airports.  Flights to  Chicago ’s O’Hare International Airport were
experiencing delays of more than an hour, according to the FAA.
Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport was reporting delays
of more than 90 minutes.  Storms in the so-called golden triangle, an area bounded by
New York City, Chicago and Atlanta, are most likely to cause air
traffic delays and cancellations. About 70 percent of all flight
delays are caused by weather, according to the  National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  