-- 
Swiss First-Quarter Exports Climb as Demand From Asia Rise

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-04-26T08:36:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/swiss-exports-fell-in-march-as-demand-from-euro-area-declined.html
Swiss exports rose in the first
quarter as demand from  Asia  and the U.S. climbed.  Foreign sales, adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation,
advanced 6.1 percent from the previous three months, when they
fell 0.1 percent, the Federal Customs Office in Bern said in an
e-mailed  statement  today. Imports declined 0.7 percent after
falling 0.8 percent in the fourth quarter and the trade balance
widened to 5.46 billion Swiss francs ($6.22 billion) from 4.96
billion francs.  Switzerland ’s economy is gaining momentum as demand from
Asia and the euro area bolsters the Alpine country’s exports,
defying the Swiss franc’s 12 percent gain in trade-weighted
terms over the past 12 months. The Swiss government last month
raised its forecast for 2011 export gains to 4.1 percent from
2.6 percent and  Nestle SA (NESN)  on April 15 reported first-quarter
sales growth as it pushed through price increases on bottled
water in Latin America and Asia.  “Switzerland’s top-quality products continue to be in high
demand globally, which outweighs the franc’s gains,” said
Ulrike Rondorf, an economist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt .
“The country’s foreign trade keeps supporting the economy’s
upswing.”  Exports to Asia climbed 12.3 percent in nominal terms from
a year earlier in the first quarter, the customs office said.
Exports to  Europe  gained 3.7 percent and foreign sales to the
U.S. advanced 9 percent.  Price Concessions  Exports gained more in real than in nominal terms, adding
to signs that some exporters cut prices to outweigh the franc’s
gains. “Overall strong price discounts for exports goods were
the only downside, indicating price concessions,” the customs
office said.  In March, foreign sales, adjusted for seasonal swings and
inflation, fell 4.8 percent from February, when they advanced a
revised 3.6 percent, the office said. Imports rose 1.3 percent
from the previous month after a revised 0.9 percent increase in
February, and the  trade surplus  narrowed to 1.09 billion Swiss
francs from a revised 2.38 billion francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  