-- 
Syrian Oil Ministry Says Kulczyk to Start Drilling Next Month

-- B y   L i n a   I b r a h i m
-- 
2011-04-26T15:56:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/syrian-oil-ministry-says-kulczyk-to-start-drilling-next-month.html
Kulczyk Oil Ventures Inc. (KOV) , an
exploration company controlled by Polish billionaire  Jan Kulczyk , will start drilling  Syria ’s Block 9 next month, the Oil
Ministry said.  Kulczyk Oil also wants to revise its bid for Block 3 in the
north of the country, it said, citing Chief Executive Officer
Timothy Elliott who met with Syrian Oil Minister Sufian Alao in
Damascus today.  “The company is interested in continuing its operations in
Syria and is ready to improve the bidding conditions it offered
for Block 3,” the Oil Ministry said in a statement.  Syria, struggling to halt a decline in crude oil output, is
seeking foreign investment to help stabilize production this
year at a rate of 386,000 barrels a day, Alao said Jan. 26.
Output peaked at 596,000 barrels a day in 1995, and the country
will deplete its existing reserves within 18 years, according to
its reserves-to-production ratio as calculated by BP Plc.  Kulczyk Oil, along with  Total SA (FP) ,  Eni SpA (ENI) , China National
Petroleum Corp. and nine other foreign companies, submitted bids
for exploration rights in eight onshore blocks covering 40
percent of the country’s territory, Deputy Oil Minister Hassan Zainab said Dec. 15.  Some of the offers were very similar and the Oil Ministry
has asked interested companies to improve their bids, Alao said
March 13. Should offers still be “unsatisfactory,” the blocks
will be offered in a new bidding round, he said at the time.  The Calgary-based company won the right to explore the
block in 2007, though drilling has yet to start. It has a 45
percent net operating interest in the 10,032-square-kilometer
(3,870-square-mile) site in northwest Syria. MENA Hydrocarbons
Inc. has 30 percent, Triton Petroleum Pty Ltd. 20 percent and an
“unrelated” party 5 percent, according to Kulczyk’s  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lina Ibrahim in Dubai at 
 librahim4@bloomberg.net ., or  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  