-- 
Survival of U.K. Fraud Office Said to Create Rift Among Government Leaders

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 
2011-04-26T10:51:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/u-k-fraud-office-s-future-said-to-create-cabinet-level-split.html
The future of the U.K.  Serious
Fraud Office , which prosecutes Ponzi schemes and corruption, has
created a rift among government leaders with some officials
giving late support to its bid to remain as a stand-alone
agency, according to two people familiar with the talks.  The solicitor general supports SFO Director  Richard Alderman ’s plan to preserve the agency and give it expanded
powers, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the talks are private. The Home Office, in a report as soon as
next month, may recommend abolishing the SFO and combining part
of it with the  Crown Prosecution Service , the people said.  The SFO has been under siege since Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  announced plans to fold the department
into an economic crime agency last year. While Osborne dropped
his initial plans for a white-collar fraud prosecutor that also
took insider-trading enforcement from financial regulators, the
SFO’s future is still in doubt.  “There is a need to have the prosecution part of the SFO
have some independence from the investigation part, because some
objectivity is lost. The Home Office proposal would properly
address that,” said Arnondo Chakrabarti, a lawyer at Allen &
Overy LLP in  London . “Whatever happens there isn’t going to be
an all-encompassing economic crime agency; that’s gone.”  National Crime Agency  Under Home Secretary Theresa May’s plan, SFO investigators
would become part of an economic crime unit of a National Crime
Agency, along with the National Fraud Authority, teams from the
Serious Organized Crime Agency, and possibly the National
Policing Improvement Agency, according to one of the people. The
SFO’s lawyers would be added to the Crown Prosecution Service.  “Such structural issues are for ministers, we cannot
express a public opinion,” said  David Jones , an SFO spokesman.  Susan Givens, a spokeswoman for Attorney General Dominic Grieve and Solicitor General Edward Garnier, said that different
options are being discussed for the Economic Crime Agency and
declined to immediately comment further. The attorney general’s
office has oversight of the CPS.  Home Office  spokesman Andrew Bell said that no decisions
have been made on the crime agency or on whether the Home Office
will propose any changes. An announcement won’t come until after
local elections next month, he said. The Home Office is the lead
agency for counter-terrorism, policing and crime policies.  ‘Greater Focus’  “The government is determined to give greater focus to
tackling both serious and economic crime,” Bell said. “We are
looking at whether current tools and powers for tackling this
are adequate and are considering new structures, in close
conjunction with work to establish the National Crime Agency.”  Keir Starmer, the director of public prosecutions, has
lobbied for his agency to handle prosecutions for any new crime
agency.  CPS Chief Executive Officer  Peter Lewis  went to  Washington 
earlier this month to meet with counterparts from the  U.S.
Department of Justice  and other agencies. The trip angered the
SFO, which believed Lewis was lobbying U.S. officials to back a
merger with the U.K. fraud agency, according to one of the
people.  Lewis is leading a project on how to handle high-cost cases
and the CPS and the trip was designed to share strategies with
U.S. officials, CPS said in a statement. The CPS said that
“issues about any expanded role for the CPS are matters purely
for the government.”  BAE, KBR Cases  The SFO works closely with the  Justice Department  on
bribery prosecutions. They have coordinated on probes of BAE
Systems Plc, Innospec Inc., Johnson & Johnson, and KBR Inc.  The Home Office is also considering whether to fold the
Financial Services Authority’s enforcement powers into the
national crime agency after the regulator is split into two new
agencies in 2012 as part of a government overhaul. The FSA has
received assurances from the Treasury that that won’t happen,
according to one of the people.  FSA spokesman  Chris Hamilton  declined to comment.  The SFO, often criticized for its prosecution track record
and low fines against companies for corruption, fears that
bribery investigations would be hurt if it is combined with a
national crime agency. The attorney general’s office estimates
that the U.K. loses about 38 billion pounds ($62 billion) a year
to fraud, with the finance industry bearing the largest loss in
the private sector.  Rosalind Wright, the chairwoman of the Fraud Advisory Panel
and a former SFO director, said splitting the agency’s
investigators and prosecutors would “only benefit the
criminals.”  “If you let even quite experienced police officers handle
the cases without legal input, they go off on tangents, they go
down rabbit holes, without attention to what’s going to be a
prosecutable case,” Wright said. “When you come to a very
complex fraud, they need all the legal advice they get at the
earliest possible stage.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 