-- 
S&P 500 Rises to Highest Level Since 2008 on Improving Earnings

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-04-26T20:38:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/u-s-stock-index-futures-advance-johnson-controls-gains.html
U.S. stocks rose, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to its highest level since June
2008, as earnings at companies from  3M Co. (MMM)  to  United Parcel
Service Inc. (UPS)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  topped analysts’ estimates.  3M, the maker of products including Scotch tape, rose 1.9
percent. UPS, the world’s largest package-delivery company and
considered a proxy for economic growth, added 0.9 percent after
also raising its earnings forecast. Ford, the second-largest
U.S. automaker, gained 0.8 percent after reporting a 22 percent
jump in profit as vehicle prices increased.  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) 
soared 11 percent as the second-biggest carrier reported a
smaller loss than analysts estimated amid higher fares.  The S&P 500 advanced 0.9 percent to 1,347.24 at 4 p.m. in
 New York , the highest level since June 17, 2008. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  increased 115.49 points, or 0.9 percent, to
12,595.37, also at an almost three-year high.  “The earnings season has been amazingly strong,” said E. William Stone, who helps oversee about $108 billion as chief
investment strategist at PNC Wealth Management in Philadelphia.
“That’s very encouraging. It’s a testament to the global growth
story. If you are a believer that earnings are sustainable,
stocks certainly do not look expensive yet.”  Before today, the  S&P 500  had failed to surpass its 2011
high from Feb. 18 after closing within 1 percent of that level
eight times in April. The benchmark gauge fell as much as 6.4
percent from Feb. 18 through March 16 as  Japan  was struck by its
strongest earthquake on record, straining the third-largest
economy, and concern grew about budget deficits in European
countries including Greece and  Portugal .  Earnings Scorecard  The index is now up 7.2 percent from its 2011 low amid
government stimulus measures and higher-than-estimated corporate
profits. Earnings-per-share beat estimates at 79 percent of the
154 companies in the S&P 500 that have reported results since
April 11, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Federal Reserve policy makers are holding two days of
meetings beginning today, and will likely say they’ll complete a
second round of scheduled bond purchases worth $600 billion
through the end of June to help sustain the recovery. While
companies including  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  are
among those benefiting from gains in spending on equipment and
software, households are feeling the pinch of higher food and
fuel prices.  FOMC Rate Decision  “With the S&P 500 at its highest level since June 2008,
the market appears to be more focused on earnings than on the
upcoming FOMC rate decision and post-meeting news conference,”
Craig Peskin, co-head of technical analysis at MF Global Inc.,
wrote in an e-mail to Bloomberg News. “The market is following
its typical earnings-season pattern, which remains bullish
through the end of this reporting season.”  Stocks extended gains after a report showed confidence
among U.S. consumers increased more than forecast in April,
signaling the improving labor market is helping Americans
weather rising fuel costs. The Conference Board’s confidence
index rose to 65.4 from a revised 63.8 reading in March, figures
from the New York-based private research group showed today. The
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
projected an advance to 64.5.  The S&P 500 rallied 29 percent since Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  suggested on Aug. 27 that he would pursue a second
round of asset purchases to stimulate the economy, a tactic
known as quantitative easing.  ‘Pleasant Surprise’  “The economic performance in the  United States  has been a
pleasant surprise,” said  Stephen Wood , the New York-based chief
market strategist for Russell Investments, which manages about
$155 billion. “Corporate performance is excellent. Our
expectation is that when the Fed ends QE2 in the summer the
growth baton will be handed from policy to the private economy.
That’s providing rationale for the market to move forward.”  Stock futures rose before the open of regular trading even
as a report showed that residential real estate prices dropped
in February by the most in more than a year, a sign the U.S.
housing market is struggling to stabilize. The S&P/Case-Shiller
index of property values in 20 cities fell 3.3 percent from
February 2010, the biggest year-over-year decrease since
November 2009. The decline matched the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey.  A gauge of industrial shares in the S&P 500 gained 1.8
percent, the most of 10 industries.  3M Rallies  3M climbed 1.9 percent to $95.94 after boosting its full-
year earnings forecast as first-quarter profit rose 16 percent,
beating analysts’ estimates, fueled by demand at the unit that
makes film for solar panels. Sales increased about 20 percent at
the industrial and transportation division, whose products
include films for solar panels and windows, and at the
electronics and communications unit, which makes films for
smartphones.   UPS added 0.9 percent to $74.30. The world’s largest
package-delivery company raised its full-year profit forecast
after increased international shipping demand pushed first-
quarter earnings higher than analysts estimated.  UPS’s next-day package shipments rose in the first quarter
as business customers refilled stockpiles to meet higher demand
from the recovering economy, Chief Financial Officer Kurt Kuehn
said. Boxes shipped using the UPS’s Next Day Air service climbed
in the “mid-single digits” as companies sought to restock
goods faster after adapting to leaner inventory during the
recession, Kuehn said in a telephone interview.  Higher Prices  Ford gained 0.8 percent to $15.66. First-quarter profit
rose to the most for the period since 1998 as it commanded
higher prices for fuel-efficient new models. Chief Executive
Officer  Alan Mulally  has revived the automaker with a focus on
fuel economy and raised U.S. prices twice this year as the cost
of gasoline gained 26 percent. The prices consumers paid for
Ford vehicles rose $900 million worldwide in the first quarter,
the automaker said.  The  NYSE Arca Airline (XAL)  Index added 2.6 percent as 14 of its
15 stocks advanced.  Delta soared 11 percent to $9.99. The world’s second-
largest carrier posted a smaller first-quarter loss than
analysts estimated as higher fares helped blunt rising fuel
costs. Delta and other U.S. carriers raised ticket prices six
times last quarter to mitigate a 41 percent jump in jet-fuel
prices from a year earlier. Delta is retiring some of its oldest
and least-efficient planes and cutting capacity after the peak
summer travel season to further lower costs.  Dividend, Buyback  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  added 0.5 percent to
$168.49. The biggest computer-services provider increased its
quarterly dividend 15 percent and set aside more money for share
buybacks, sending the stock to a record. The quarterly payout
will rise by 10 cents for the second straight year, to 75 cents
a share, IBM said today in a statement. IBM added $8 billion to
the stock-repurchase plan, bringing the total authorized by the
board to $12.7 billion.  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  slumped 1.2 percent to $66.93. The world’s
largest soft-drink maker, posted first-quarter profit that fell
short of analysts’ projections as earthquake damage squeezed
margins in Japan and total revenue trailed expectations.  Some Coca-Cola manufacturing and vending operations in
Japan, which represents more than one-10th of operating profit,
were disrupted following the March 11 earthquake and ensuing
tsunami. Chief Executive Officer  Muhtar Kent  has pledged more
than $30 million in relief for the region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  Sao Paulo  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  