-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Copper Declines Most in Seven Weeks

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-04-26T11:20:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-copper-declines-most-in-seven-weeks.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Platinum Expanding Most in Metals as Lonmin Doubles Earnings (1)  Investors expanded their platinum holdings in funds faster
than for any other precious metal this year, in a bet that
mining companies digging as deep as 1.4 miles underground will
fail to meet record consumption.  Copper, Zinc Demand in Japan to Pick Up on Quake Rebuilding (1)  Japan’s consumption of copper and zinc will climb on the
need for temporary housing for evacuees, reconstruction and
power generation after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami,
industry executives said.  Investor ‘Euphoria’ to Spur  India  Silver Demand, Bourse Says (1)  Silver demand in India will climb this year as investors
boost purchases on expectation that prices will extend a record
rally, according to the National Spot Exchange Ltd.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Falls Most in Seven Weeks on China Tightening Concern  Copper fell the most in almost seven weeks in London on
concern demand may wane as China, the world’s biggest consumer
of the metal, takes more steps to tighten credit.  Freeport Says Grasberg Mill Runs at Full Capacity Amid Closure  Freeport-McMoran Copper & Gold Inc., the largest publicly
traded copper producer, said that the mill at its Grasberg mine
is running at full capacity even after subsurface mining was
halted last week following an accident.  Japan  Copper-Alloy Product Output Declines After Earthquake (1)  Japan’s output of copper and copper-alloy fabricated
products, including sheets and tubes, declined 3.7 percent in
March from a year earlier as an earthquake and tsunami cut
demand, an industry group said.  MINING:  AngloGold, African Barrick in Talks on Tanzanian Tax Refunds  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd., African Barrick Gold Ltd. and other
miners of the precious metal are in “advanced” talks with
Tanzania’s government about a $273.9 million tax refund, the
Chamber of Minerals and Energy said.  Sesa Goa Looks to Set Up Steel Plants as Export Costs Rise  Sesa Goa Ltd., India’s biggest iron ore exporter, may set
up small steel plants in India to counter higher taxes on raw
material shipments.  Hochschild Mining Shares Fall Most in Six Weeks After Mine Halt  Hochschild Mining Plc, a producer of precious metals in
North and South America, slumped the most in six weeks in  London 
trading after shutting a mine in  Argentina .  Minmetals Pulls Offer for Equinox After Barrick Counterbid (2)  Minmetals Resources Ltd., controlled by China’s largest
metals trader, abandoned its offer to buy Equinox Minerals Ltd.
after Barrick Gold Corp. topped it with a C$7.32 billion ($7.68
billion) cash bid.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold, Silver Decline From All-Time Highs as Investors Seek Cash  Gold and silver retreated from records as some investors
sold the metals to lock in gains and raise cash to cover losses
in other markets.  Swiss Platinum Imports Were 3,350 Kilos in March, Customs Says  Switzerland ’s platinum imports were 3,350 kilograms in
March compared with 3,619 kilograms in February, according to
the Swiss Federal Customs Administration.  AGRICULTURE:  Wheat, Corn Futures Drop as Commodities Slump After Recent Rally  Wheat declined, joining a slump in commodities from oil to
gold, as some investors locked in gains after a recent rally and
reduced the appeal of U.S. crops.  Japan Seeks to Buy 336,518 Tons of Milling Wheat in Tender  Japan is seeking to buy 336,518 metric tons of milling
wheat from the U.S.,  Canada  and  Australia  in a tender on April
28, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries said.  Sugar Falls as India May Allow Further Exports; Coffee Slides  Sugar fell in London on speculation India, the world’s
second-biggest producer, may permit further exports, adding to a
surge in shipments from  Thailand . Coffee slid.  Rubber Reaches One-Month Low on China Rate Concern, Car Output  Rubber slumped to a one-month low amid speculation China
may increase  interest rates  to curb inflation and economic
growth, and as reduced production by Japanese automakers raised
concern demand for tires may weaken.  Palm Oil  Drops as Ringgit at 13-Year High Dims Export Prospects  Palm oil dropped the most in almost two weeks after the
Malaysian currency advanced to the highest level in 13 years,
reducing the appeal of the edible oil for overseas buyers.  Starbucks to Expand Range of Instant Beverages, Schultz Says (2)  Starbucks Corp. Chief Executive Officer  Howard Schultz  said
the coffee-shop operator is developing a wider range of ready-
made food and beverages after it sold more Via instant coffee
than expected.  SHIPPING:  Gulf Navigation Hires Deutsche Bank for Saudi Joint Venture (1)  Gulf Navigation Holding PJSC, Dubai’s only publicly traded
oil-tanker owner, hired Deutsche Bank AG and King & Spalding LLP
to set up a Saudi joint venture to ship crude from the world’s
top exporter.  Steel Output Insufficient to Counter Ship Supply, Arctic Says  A 6.6 percent rise in global steel production is
insufficient to raise rates to hire ships to carry the raw
materials for the metal, Arctic Securities ASA said.  ECONOMIES:  Asia  Faces ‘Serious Setback’ on Rising Food Costs, ADB Says  Asia faces a “serious setback” from surging oil and food
prices that are fueling inflation and threatening to push
millions into extreme poverty, the  Asian Development Bank  said.  China  Said to Lift Capital Adequacy Ratios for Biggest Banks (1)  China’s banking regulator set capital targets for the
nation’s five biggest lenders above the minimum 11.5 percent
ratio amid concern that credit risks may rise, three people with
knowledge of the matter said.  Fed Confidence in Transitory Inflation Hinges on Low Wage Gains  Brady Miller is paying more for vinyl siding for his
construction business and for groceries to feed his family. He
can’t charge customers more, showing why some Federal Reserve
officials say inflation will ease.  China’s ‘Opaque’ Central Bank Shows Rate Clues: Chart of the Day  China’s monetary-policy changes are most likely to be
announced within seven days of the release of monthly inflation
data and on weekends or holidays, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  OTHER MARKETS:  Stocks Decline as Commodities Drop, Led by Copper; Yen Gains  Stocks fell, with Asia’s benchmark index tumbling to a one-
week low on concern regional efforts to tame inflation will slow
profit growth, and as commodities sank, led by the biggest slump
in copper in seven weeks. The yen rose.  Oil Supply Rises in Survey on Increased Imports: Energy Markets  U.S. crude supplies rose for the seventh time in eight
weeks as imports rebounded and refineries prepared to bolster
gasoline output to meet summer demand, a Bloomberg News survey
showed.  Development Bank Plans Record Rail, Port Loans: Islamic Finance  Islamic Development Bank , the multilateral lender based in
 Jeddah ,  Saudi Arabia , plans a record $4.38 billion in Shariah-
compliant loans this year to fund projects that are encouraging
sukuk issuance.  Yuan  Hong Kong  Premium at Five-Month High on IPOs: China Credit  The premium investors pay to obtain yuan in Hong Kong grew
to the widest in five months as officials signaled plans for
faster gains and said the city’s first sale of shares
denominated in the currency heralds more issuance.  SPORTS:  Chelsea Targets Tottenham’s Gareth Bale, Mirror Says: Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Dodgers Takeover May Save Robinson’s Team as Sale Awaits (1)  Major League Baseball ’s takeover of the  Los Angeles
Dodgers , possibly leading to a sale of the team, may salvage one
of sports’ enduring brands, marketers said. A legal fight by
owner Frank McCourt might damage it more.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  