-- 
April IPO Filings Highest Since ’07, Renaissance Says

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-04-26T19:17:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/u-s-ipo-filings-in-april-are-at-highest-level-since-07-renaissance-says.html
Monthly filings for U.S. initial
public offerings in April are at the highest in more than three
years as companies including Jiayuan.com International Ltd. and
BrightSource Energy Inc. seek to raise capital,  Renaissance
Capital LLC  said.  New filings for U.S. IPOs total 31 so far this month, the
most since 40 companies registered to go public with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission in August 2007, Renaissance,
an IPO investment firm, said on its  website  today.  Jiayuan, a Chinese online-dating company, and Renren Inc.,
the country’s largest social-networking service, announced plans
for U.S. IPOs after shares of Beijing-based Qihoo 360 Technology
Co., the Beijing-based provider of Web browsers, more than
doubled following a March 29 offering. Through yesterday, Zipcar
Inc.’s shares had climbed more than 50 percent since the car-
sharing service’s April 13 IPO, making it this month’s best-
performing U.S. offering.  “A combination of broader market improvement coupled with
recent successful IPOs has inspired other companies in the
pipeline to be more active in terms of going public,” said
Stephanie Chang, an analyst at Greenwich, Connecticut-based
Renaissance. “A lot of the companies that have filed recently
are somewhat similar to the ones we’ve seen that were
successful.”  BrightSource, Vanguard  Almost half of this month’s new filings have happened in
the past week, and 21 completed IPOs in April have raised a
total of $5.6 billion,  Renaissance Capital  said. The data
exclude filings by special-purpose acquisition companies,
closed-end funds and trusts.  BrightSource, an Oakland, California-based solar-power
equipment maker, will attempt to raise $250 million to fund
working capital, it said in an April 22 filing with the SEC.
It’s one of at least 14 companies that have filed for U.S. IPOs
since April 20 attempting to raise as much as $2.5 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Earlier this month, Vanguard Health Systems Inc. said it
plans a $600 million IPO. The Nashville, Tennessee-based
hospital operator would come to the public market after HCA Inc.
raised $4.35 billion in its March 9 initial offering including
an overallotment option. HCA’s shares have gained 6.7 percent.  The 31 filings so far this month topped the total of 29 in
April 2010, Renaissance’s data show. Companies have filed for 82
U.S. IPOs so far this year, compared with a total of 83 in the
first four months of last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 