-- 
U.S. States Pension Fund Deficits Widen by 26%, Pew Center Study Says

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-04-26T04:00:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/u-s-states-pension-fund-deficits-widen-by-26-pew-center-study-says.html
U.S. states’ deficits in their
employee retirement systems widened by 26 percent in fiscal 2009
as governments were stung by investment losses and failed to pay
enough into their pension funds, a study found.  The deficits, or the difference between the retirement and
health-care benefits states have promised their employees and
the assets set aside to fund them, grew to $1.26 trillion by the
end of the 2009 budget year from $1 trillion a year earlier, the
Pew Center on the States said in a report released today. The
fiscal year ends in June for all but four states.  The gaps are straining governments that have  yet to fully
recover  from the recession and are stoking political fights in
states such as New Jersey,  Ohio  and  Wisconsin  over the workers’
benefits. They have also drawn scrutiny in Congress, where
Republicans have held hearings into the risks posed by
underfunded pensions and backed legislation that would bar the
federal government from bailing out any ailing funds.  “The states dug themselves a big hole before the recession
ever hit,” Susan Urahn, the managing director of the Pew Center
in  Washington , said in a conference call with reporters
yesterday. “We can see how the Great Recession and states’
severe budget problems made a serious problem even worse.”  The data from the 2009 fiscal year provide a snapshot of
the pension funds during the worst of the financial crisis.  The median  pension plan  lost 19 percent that year,
according to figures cited in the Pew report. The setback may
continue to weigh on states that count on annual returns of
about 8 percent and use accounting methods to spread their
losses across years.  Long Legacy  In 2009, state retirement systems had 78 percent of what
they needed to pay for promised pensions, according to the Pew
Center, down from 84 percent a year before.  “Pension funding levels are stabilizing after the steep
investment losses caused by the 2008 Wall Street collapse,”
Urahn said. “But the legacy of the recession will be evident on
pension-fund balance sheets for some time.”  The unfunded liability in state-run pension plans rose to
$660 billion in 2009 from $452 billion  a year earlier , according
to the Pew Center’s figures, which rely on the funds’ expected
rates of return to calculate long-term liability. That deficit
projection would grow to $1.8 trillion under corporate-style
accounting methods, which use lower expected returns.  Health-Care Bills  The states are also facing the rising cost of employee
health care benefits that, unlike pensions, are largely financed
as the bills come due. Such expenses accounted for $604 billion
of the retirement systems’ deficits, according to the Pew
Center’s report.  Those health-care obligations may squeeze large states if
medical costs keep rising as  baby boomers  retire over the next
decade, Urahn said.  “That annual bill is going to really rocket up,” she
said.  The biggest unfunded pension liabilities in 2009 were in
 Illinois , which had just 51 percent of what it needed to pay for
promised benefits, and  West Virginia , with 56 percent, according
to the report.  New Hampshire  was 58 percent funded, while New
Jersey and Ohio both had just two-thirds of what they needed.  On the other end of the spectrum, the pension plans in  New
York  and Wisconsin were fully funded.  Some states worsened their problems by not making full
payments into their pension funds each year. Pennsylvania paid
only 31 percent of its required contribution in 2009 and  New
Jersey  36 percent, according to the report. Both Wisconsin and
New York made their full payments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  