-- 
U.S. Must Protect Offshore Drilling Environment, Groups Say

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 
2011-04-26T19:29:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-26/u-s-must-safeguard-environment-in-ocean-drills-activists-urge-court.html
Environmentalists urged a New
Orleans appellate court today to require U.S. offshore-drilling
regulators to enforce safeguards for wildlife and water quality
that they claim were routinely ignored before last year’s  BP Plc (BP/) 
 oil spill .  Lawyers representing the  Sierra Club , the Gulf Restoration
Network, the  Center for Biological Diversity  and other activist
groups asked the court to force the Interior Department to
rescind several deep-water drilling permits regulators approved
last April, just before and after the worst offshore oil spill
in U.S. history.  The activists complain that the relationship between the
oil industry and its regulators has been too cozy, resulting in
lax oversight and environmental damage. They claim that five
drilling permits were awarded last April without completion of
the full environmental-impact assessments required by law.  “What the agency did was rubber-stamp the plans,” Monica
Reimer, an attorney for  Earthjustice , said during today’s
hearing at the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in  New Orleans .
“We believe they need to be reopened, and that those plans must
come before the court after the agency has done a complete
environmental assessment.”  Seeking Change  The activist groups sued Interior Secretary Kenneth Salazar
and his agency seeking multiple changes to U.S. drilling
regulations following the Deepwater Horizon disaster last April.
The rig exploded while drilling a BP well off the Louisiana
coast, killing 11 workers. The subsea gusher spewed more than
4.1 million barrels of crude into the  Gulf of Mexico .  Much of the Gulf’s fisheries were closed, wildlife was
injured or killed, and hundreds of miles of shoreline was fouled
by the drifting oil.  The environmental groups challenged the agency’s actions
directly at the appeals court, which is permitted under U.S.
law. Related offshore-drilling policy lawsuits filed by some of
the activist groups in lower federal courts were subsequently
consolidated into the appellate actions. A three-judge appellate
panel heard arguments on the challenges in back-to-back sessions
today.  The  Bureau of Ocean Energy Management , which regulates
offshore drilling, awarded one of the five permits the activists
have complained about six days after the Deepwater Horizon
exploded. The groups say that permit was based on an exploration
plan that didn’t take into consideration the possibility of a
deep-water spill like the one then spreading across the Gulf.  Agency Decisions  Government lawyers today urged the appeals court not to
interfere with agency decisions that regulators made according
to rules that were in place at the time the permits were
granted. Regulators notified  oil companies  in November 2010 that
the agency would beef up existing environmental-impact
assessment requirements “to consider the implications of the
Deepwater Horizon oil spill,” government lawyer Ignacia Moreno
said in a court filing.  “The petitioners’ attempt to have this court rule that the
agency should have started that process within days of the
Deepwater Horizon initial explosion should be rejected,” Moreno
said in the filing.  Environmentalists told the judges the agency’s practice of
using of so-called categorical exclusions, which let regulators
arbitrarily exempt companies from fulfilling certain permit
requirements, violated the law.  Risky Process  “There were all kinds of risks that were not being
disclosed to the  Department of Interior  or by the industry,’’
Reimer said of the five permits the bureau approved in April
2010, during an interview after the hearing.  “Deep-water drilling is an inherently risky process, and
the industry knows it,’’ she said. “There is major potential
for significant environmental impact,’’ and regulators should be
forced to factor that into their permit approval decisions, she
said.  The lead cases are Gulf Restoration Network v. Salazar, 10-
60411, and Center for Biological Diversity v. Salazar, 10-60417,
both in the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleanst . 